{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__aurant___the_pow_wow_book.pdf","mytitle":"The Pow Wow Book","mylang":"de"}
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
SCHOO. OF 'UBLIC H / LTH
3363 LIFE SCIENCES BUILDINS
BERKELEY 4, CALIF.
THE
"Ifrow* Timow" Book
A TREATISE ON THE ART OF "HEALING BY PRAYER" AND
"LAYING ON OF HANDS," ETC., PRACTICED BY THE PENN
SYLVANIA-GERMANS AND OTHERS; TESTIMONIALS; RE
MARKABLE recoveries; popular superstitions; etc.
Including an Account of the
FAMOUS "WITCH" MURDER TRIAL, AT YORK, PA.
By A. MONROE AURAND, JR.
AUTHOR OF BOOKS ON PENNA. HISTORY, FOLK-LORE, IcC.
CONTAINING ALSO THE COMPLETE COLLECTION OF REMEDIES
AND CURES IN JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's "POW-WOWS, OR
LONG LOST FRIEND;" IN POPULAR USE SINCE 1820.
Privately Printed by
THE AURAND PRESS
HARRISBURG, PA.
1929
Three Volumes in One:
THE "POW WOW" BOOK.
By A. Monroe Aurand, Jr.
AN ACCOUNT OF THE "WITCH" MURDER TRIAL.
By A. Monroe Aurand, Jr.
POW-WOWS; or LONG LOST FRIEND.
By John George Hohiman.
SPECIAL LIMITED EDITION/
This edition of the "Pow
Wow" Book is limited
to One Thousand
Copies; One Hun
dred Signed by
the Author 5
Thii is No.
Copyright 1929 — By A. Monroe Aurand, Jr.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
M A N U
FACT
U R E D
WRITTEN LINOTYPED
8c PUBLISHED BY THE
A U T H
0 R A T
H A R R
1 S B U
R G P A
t t u:.s:.a t t
t 1 9 2 9 t
n in Lie
CONTENTS.
CHAPTER PAGE
Bibliography vi
Preface vii
Introduction 1
I. Pow-Wowing and Conjuring by Indians 15
II. Pow-Wowing a Mis-Nomer for Healing by Prayer. . 20
III. The Relation of Psychology to Pow-Wowing 28
IV. Reminiscences and Sketches from Various Authors. 31
V. Pennsylvania-German Frugality and Pow-Wowing. 38
VI. Similar Practices are World-Wide 41
VII. Early Superstitions in Penna. and a "Witch" Trial. 45
VIII. Charms and Superstitions 50
IX. Dr. Dady and the "Ghosts" of York County in 1797. 56
X. An Interview with a Pow-Wow Doctor 61
XI. Occasional Confidential Talks with Skeptics, et al.. . 65
XII. An Amulet Used During the World War 68
XIII. An Account of Pow-Wowing, by a Correspondent. . 70
XIV. A Few Illustrative Accounts 74
XV. A Pointed Word to Those Who Scoff — Read It! . . 78
XVI. Overcoming Superstition — Conclusion 83
ivi328G38
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Annals of Philadelphia and Pennsylvania in the Olu^n Time.
—J. F. Watson, 2 vols., Philadelphia, 1841.
Customs and Fashions in Old New England. —Alice Morse
Earle, New York, 1893.
History of Berks and Lebanon Countines. —Prof. I. Daniel
Rupp, Lancaster, Pa., 1844.
History of the Devil. —Daniel Defoe, Philadelphia.
History of the Devil.— Dr. Paul Carus, Chicago, 1900.
Home's (A. K.) Pennsylvania-German Manual (Dictionary,
etc.) Allentown, Pa.
Loudon's (A.) Indian Narratives, 2 vols.
Men, Women and Manners In Colonial Times. — Sydney Geo.
Fisher, 2 vols., Philadelphia.
Mysteries and Secrets of Magic. —C. J. S. Thompson, Phila.
1928.
New Ideals in Healing.—Ray Stannard Baker, New York.
Old Schuylkill Tales.—Mrs. Ella Zerbey Elliott, Pottsville.
Primitive Culture. —Edward B. Tylor, 2 vols., New York.
"Pennsylvania Dutch" and Other Essays. —Phebe Earle Gib
bons, Philadelphia, 1882.
Reminiscences and Sketches. —Judge Wm. M. Hall, Harris-
burg, Pa., 1890.
Signs, Omens and Superstitions.
Story of the Penna.-Germans. —William Beidelman, Easton.
The Cross in Tradition, History and Art. — Rev. William
Wood Seymour, New York, 1898.
The Devil in Britain and America. —John Ashton, London.
The German and Swiss Settlements of Pennsylvania. — Oscar
Kuhns, New York, 1901.
The Golden Bough.—Sir S. G. Frazer, New York, 1926.
The Law of Christian Healing.—David Bruce Fitzgerald,
New York.
The Pennsylvania-German Magazine, etc.
The Pennsylvania-German Society Proceedings.
The Pennsylvania Germans. —Jesse Leonard Rosenberger,
Chicago, 1923.
Newspapers, Magazines, etc.; and personal contacts.
[ vi ]
PREFACE.
" There's so much bad in the best of us,
And so much good in the worst of us,
That it little behooves any of us,
To speak about the rest of us."
Man, from time immemorial, has been fascinated by the
mysterious things of life. Not only is this true of life but
also of death, and in everything in which he is a part; and
not a few phases in which he is not a part.
The thirst of man for knowledge, his insatiate appetite
for the things that are different, and his lust for power are
common experiences. It has ever been thus, and always will
be so. Man is a creature of God, possessed with His Spirit,
but is susceptible to and probably often does, the works of
the devil. These conflicting forces, of course, make man and
his habits, customs, beliefs and actions the unsolvable enigma
of the age. Man does not fully know God, nor the devil;
nor does he know himself — except in part. His dual per
sonality, therefore, subjects him to much criticism on one
hand, while on the other hand he is lauded to the sky by
those of like temperament.
Man is complex; has a will of his own, and is generally
able to use it. Sometimes his will is used toward the acquiring
of wealth, knowledge and profession; sometimes used to gain
influence over fellow man.
Of the latter the author has chosen to discourse upon, at
some length, for along the subject set forth in the following
pages but little has been said or noted in the open pages of
history. In the manner of communicating the "mysterious"
from mouth to ear, as practiced by the great mystics and
scholars of the past ages, we have much food for current
discussion.
"
Nothing new under the sun
"
is a well-worn saying. It
applies with much force today, although there are seemingly
any number of new inventions and the like, surrounding us
on every hand. At any rate, we are
"
seeing things
" in a
different light from the ancients, but on general principles if
we stop for a moment to read the various classics and books
handed down to us by the classical writers and philosophers
of the centuries past, there is ever so little to be added to the
knowledge exhibited by those of old.
In like manner it ought not seem surprising to the reader
to hear it declared that the world at large is almost as su-
[ vii ]
viii PREFACE
perstitious today as ever in its history. We might modify
that statement a bit by admitting that we have come to
do so many little things day by day, that through their cur
rent use, we have deceived ourselves into believing them to
be just the things we think they are. Our use and practice
of many trite sayings, in jest; our fear of black cats; thir
teen as being unlucky, especially on the third Friday of the
month; knocking on wood; and many others, have become
habit, custom — but all come under the general head of su
perstition, however insignificant the action may seem. Where
is there the man or woman who does not do
" this
" or
" that," or some other
" little thing," for some uncon
scious reason they fear or suspect may bring bad luck — or
good luck?
If there is any such person, who fears neither man nor
devil, and who believes that all men are created in His image;
free and equal; who recognizes no evil in any man or beast,
then we have the model man. And when all men, in all lands,
act together for the good of all, the human race will see the
end of superstition and strife.
The man who travels much, learns much; he who stays at
home, has much to learn. It appears to have required a mur
der in York county to arouse in the minds of many people, not
only in central Pennsylvania, but all over the United States,
that superstition still prevails in enlightened America.
Alas! too much of it. It is believed and practiced in every
city, town and hamlet in the country, and there is no power
on earth — not even the law of the land can stop it, or more
than seek to check it. These statements may be termed rather
bold, but the student and reader who wishes to, can see it
on every hand.
Until all men say there is no superstition, it will exist!
The recent newspaper reports of voodooism, witchcraft and
the like, could be repeated in almost any community any day
in the year that any person may be said to have died under
"
strange circumstances." The affair at York seems to have
found a responsive chord, however, and it has become
"
big
news," especially with the newspapers, a few ministers, doc
tors and lawyers. It was the
"
straw that broke the camel's
back," and since the newspapers and medical profession, and
the
"
non-superstitious
" have been pointing their fingers of
scorn and shame at a group of probably mentally defective
men and boys, and various writers have attempted to give
a more or less half-connected story of witchcraft as being
the cause of it all!
PREFACE ix
It is the author's personal opinion that of witches and
" little bad luck devils
" — there are none; and that most
that one reads about nowadays in newspapers and magazines
concerning them is just so much space devoted to a passing
fancy, and lure of the mysterious. The publishers know that
and so do most of their readers, but the readers like it and
ask for more!
The late Harry Houdini, a personal friend of the author's,
would scarcely stop to read an account of such as happened
in York county because he was familiar with all phases and
common gossips of similar affairs.
But insinuations have been made that there is good and
bad in the witchcraft world, and it seems timely that some
one sift, if possible, any of the good, (if possible), out of the
evil to see whether any can be obtained.
The matter of writing an extended account of the good
resulting from bona fide pow-wowing could not be accom
plished in a short space of time. However, enough has been
revealed in the following pages, it is hoped, to satisfy the
most scrupulous. If pow-wowing, as applied to the ordinary
healing of physical ills where medicine is undesired or does
not heal, does not do any good, no serious harm can come
from trying it. Certainly one man ought to be able to pray
as well as another, whether he be ordained — or just plain
and sincere.
The medical and clerical professions should take no offense
at any remarks made herein, for no aspersions or thrusts are
made that are intended to hurt either.
This discourse is solely one of trying to solve some per
plexing problems, and unfortunately, or fortunately, (we
don't know which), the preacher, the doctor, the newspaper
man, the pow-wow man, and all of the rest of us are injected
into the various problems presented.
We are willing to assume the rather laborious task of pro
curing one testimonial, or believer, in the efficacy of pow
wowing as explained in the following pages, for every dol
lar of any man's money — from one dollar up to fifty thou
sand dollars, or as high as anyone wants to make it! But
we won't confine our hunting-grounds to York or Lebanon
counties alone! In all fairness we would institute our search
in every State in the Union — and we are perfectly satisfied
that we could find twenty-five to fifty thousand or more,
more or less superstitious persons in every State. These figures
are ultra-conservative; we blush with shame when we take
into consideration how high these figures might mount. And
X PREFACE
if passports are provided we will travel abroad and complete
a check-up of such an unbelievable number of superstitious
people that the percentage of non-such will be negligible!
When the York county murder trial evidence is all in,
and the trial ended, it will be forgotten in less than no time,
and men and women will go on as before — believing as their
forefathers did for generations. Laws can be made — for
the few — but for the many there is ever so little, even in
educational lines, that will help us to surmount the barrier
of the ages — superstition! This is ever so true so long as
religious tolerance is practically free in America, and where
the constitution allows man to worship according to the dic
tates of his own conscience.
If any one does believe in pow-wowing — who is there
that dare say
" No!"
So that the reader may be reasonably assured that the au
thor is not prejudiced one way or another, it might as well
be said here as hereafter — that what has been said in the
foregoing, and what follows, is written without prejudice,
fear or favor, for those who care to read. It is the theory
of the healing art that has been summed up from quite some
few different sources. While the language is mine — impure,
and written as only an unpolished student of history and
customs would write — the ideas, manners and customs you
will read about, belong to others.
Personally, I am non-committal, and am but a disinter
ested spectator in a war between classes which will not end
with the present generation — nor the next; and it is with
a sense of
"
fair play
" that this discourse is herewith pre
sented to an already too superstitious public.
A. Monroe Aurand, Jr.
Harrisburg, Pa.,
January, 1929.
P. S. — The various cures recommended and recipes pub
lished in the Appendix, or Part III, to this edition, do not
bear a single endorsement by me — they are selected and
reprinted as a few representative
" cures
" which are be
lieved in by many, but considered impossible and improbable
by many more. When it appears to the undersigned that
most of them can be used and worked with pleasure, satis
faction and profit to all concerned, you will find more of
us trying them, rather than warning the unwary of his ways.
A.
INTRODUCTION.
Something About Books on Pow-Wowing.
"
Pow-Wow
" is a mis-nomer for a practice that is as
entirely sound in principle — as sound and practical as are
"
sugar pills
"
and some other so-called antidotes for human
ills. Pow-wowing is really a psychological condition.
The recent charges against several persons in central Penn
sylvania, particularly in York county, as well as Lebanon
county, with being implicated in pow-wow, witchcraft and
"
hex
" murders and the practice of such
" arts," has awaken
ed an interest in various quarters on this subject that will
not subside.
It appears from articles in the daily newspapers that one
Nelson D. Rehmeyer, aged 60 years, had been murdered by
a
" hex
" doctor. One newspaper states:
"
The murder of Rehmeyer for the purpose of obtaining a
lock of his hair to bury under the ground to break a
"
spell
"
has started a crusade here (York) against witchcraft and
pow-wowism. Tonight (December 6, 1928), the York
County Medical Society will be asked to launch the cam
paign against these alleged evils."
" The grand jury will be asked to indict John Blymyer,
32, John Curry, 14, and Wilbert G. Hess, 18, for first-degree
murder. These three confessed the murder."
" The report that Blymyer practiced
" black art
" on Ger
trude Rudy, the 16 -year-old girl who was murdered on
Armistice Day, 1927, has caused the State police to go to
work on the case. Two troopers are now in the city trying
to solve the mystery."
The purpose of this discourse is not to meddle into mur
ders, et cetera, but to inquire diligently into the long and
short of, and the whys and wherefores of "
Pow-Wowing."
It may be added here that John Blymyer was at one time
[ 1 ]
2 The "Pow-Wov" Book.
a patient in the State Hospital for the Insane, at Harrisburg.
However, having escaped from said institution, (by what
means never having been learned by the authorities), under
the law, after a year's absence he was automatically allowed
to be at large, and restored to full rights as a citizen.
Those associated with Blymyer were mere lads, no more
than dupes, with poorly developed mental powers so far
as reasoning is concerned, rather than active participants in
the affair.
Investigation shows that possession of a lock of hair, and
a
" Pow-Wow
"
book were the reasons for the three being at
Rehmeyer's house. The possession of these two
"
charms
"
overshadowed all else, and the anxious and mad effort on
the part of these weak-minded boys, to obtain the hair or the
book, resulted in what is believed to have been an
"
accidental
killing," resulting in a charge of murder.
Perhaps the authorities and newspapers were too zealous
in giving the news of the murder to the world, and pounced
upon the
" hex
"
argument as a probable solution of the af
fair, besides the extra-fine-" flavor
" such news would have.
Authorities, and newspapers especially, could do that, you
know. It is easier to imagine a probable reason or solution,
than it is to prove a case, especially when it must be published
in the first possible editions of all newspapers.
In this Twentieth Century, is it possible that enlightened
men and women believe in witchcraft and hexadukt'r? The
answer is obvious: the enlightened seem to acknowledge that
the ruler of the underworld can perform in various ways
through man, to do his bidding, and the un-enlightened
believe almost anything! Many curious ways have been
talked of and written about for years concerning the Pennsyl
vania-Germans, the Puritans of New England, the aboriginal
natives of America (the Indians) , our ancestors in Europe,
the blacks of Africa, and the necromancers of ancient Egypt,
the Jews, etc.
" More than four thousand books have been written on the
subject and nine millions of men and women are said to have
been put to death for witchcraft work and beliefs during the
The 'Tow-Wow" Book. 3
Christian epoch!" This according to Sprenger, and brought
out by Sydney George Fisher, in Men, Women and Manners
in Colonial Times.
One of the earliest printed books, published by Johann
Sensenschmidt, at Nuremberg, Germany, about 1470, (just
about fourteen years after the advent of printing from mov
able type) , is that entitled "Compendium Theological Veri-
tatis," by Albertus Magnus, author of the book on the
Egyptian Secrets. It is not improbable that the first edition
of this latter book can be traced on back to near the time
of the first-mentioned book of Magnus'. The title page of
an edition of Egyptian Secrets, current on the market today,
leads as follows:
"
Albertus Magnus: being the approved, verified, sympa
thetic and natural Egyptian Secrets; or White and Black Art
for Man and Beast. The book of nature and the hidden sec
rets and mysteries of life unveiled; being the forbidden know
ledge of ancient philosophers, etc. Translated from the Ger
man. Three volumes in one."
In the library of the Landis Valley, Lancaster County, Mu
seum, is a copy of "Albertus Magnus; substantiated and
approved Sympathy and Natural Egyptian Secrets for Man
and Beast; for City and County dwellers." One copy in
the library is imprinted Brabant, 1725, but another, exactly
the same, is dated 1866 and still another 1857. This is a
famous work and 1725 may not be far from the date of its
origin as a book, although , Albertus Magnus himself lived
about 1250. He was a contemporary of Thomas a'Kempis,
and was a Dominican Monk of the Franciscan Order.
The book just described above, comes usually in a 12mo,
or 5 by 7-inch size. It is usually available in what is com
monly called
"
paper covers." It can also be had cloth bound.
There is no ban on the sale of the book, nor has there ever
been according to the knowledge of the best authorities,
and it can be had from any good book store, in almost any
city or town in the entire country. Several editions are al
ways in print, and they are sold by the thousands. The pre
vailing price is $1.00 a copy.
4 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
To classify the numerous items of interest that appear in
Albertus Magnus, one might as well reprint the entire book.
They are many, and varied; for the ills of man or beast.
The book numbers almost 200 pages, and is well indexed
for each of the three parts into which it is divided.
Opening the book at random, one's eye may meet with
such as the following:
To Try if a Person is Chaste
Sap of radish squeezed into the hand will prove what
you wish to know. If they do not fumble or grapple
they are all right.
How to Cause Your Intended Wife to Love You
Take feathers from a rooster's tail, press them three
times into her hand. Probatum.
Or: Take a turtle dove tongue into your mouth, talk
to your friend agreeably, kiss her and she will love you
so dearly that she cannot love another.
When You Wish That Your Sweetheart Shall
Not Deny You
Take the turtle dove tongue into your mouth again
and kiss her, and she will accept your suit.
Or: Take salt, cheese and flour, mix it together, put
it into her room, and she will have no rest until she sees
you.
To Cause Hair to Grow Wherever You Wish
Take the milk of a slut, and saturate therewith the
spot wherever the hair is desired to grow. Probatum est!
Any number of odd and curious recipes and items of in
terest are to be found in this work, the republishing of many
of which would prove of much satisfaction and humor to
the reader. However, as said, the edition may be procured
almost anywhere for a dollar.
It should be understood that we are not backing-up any
of the recipes, or opinions of these ancient writers, no more
The "Pow-Wow" Book. J
than does the furniture man
" stand back
" of every bed
he sells, even though he claims to do so. The various ex
cerpts are provided as examples which will interest almost
any person.
Concurrent with the modern day use of the book Albertus
Magnus, is .mother, called The Sixth and Seventh Books of
Moses or
" Moses' Magical Spirit-Art, known as the Won
derful Arts of the old wise Hebrews, taken from the Mosaic
Books of the Cabala and Talmud, for the good of Mankind.
Translated from the German, word for word, according to
old writings; with numerous engravings."
These two books, dating their original uses back to times
before the Christian Era, have been the hand-books of hun
dreds of thousands of persons who were believers and prac
titioners, as well as unbelievers of the magical arts.
Concerning the Sixth and Seventh Books of Moses, which
is the common term for the magical works of the Jewish
law-giver, we read from recent authorities, that
"
Moses
apparently acquired his knowledge of magical practices from
the Egyptians, as it is recorded in the Old Testament that
he was
'
learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians and
mighty in words and in deeds.' The story of the brazen ser
pent and the power to control and direct the movement of
such venomous reptiles are acts that were doubtless known
to the Egyptians in those days. Lane mentions, that the na
tive magicians he met with had a method of hypnotizing
a viper by compressing its head and making it appear like
a rod."
The Sixth and Seventh Books of Moses is one of those
books which at one time was said to have been looked upon
by many of the superstitious as being a decidedly bad book
to have about the house. It was originally published as a
valuable compendium of the curiosities of literature gener
ally, and especially of that pertaining to magic. As men
tioned elsewhere, this title is but one of possibly more than
four thousand books on the subject of magic. There are
those who believe implicitly in the arts and sciences advanced
6 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
by this book, while others get their enjoyment out of it
by laughing at its supposed improbabilities.
The publication is not scarce, as has been stated by various
writers, but is available at the usual price of a dollar a
copy,
" Wherever Books Are Sold." The book has filled a
demand on the part of people of almost all classes and races,
for centuries, and is translated in accordance with an old
manuscript. It is profusely illustrated with wood-cut plates.
Concerning the books, we read as follows:
"Instruction. These two books were revealed by God,
the Almighty, to his faithful servant Moses, on Mount Sinai,
intervale lucis, and in this manner they also came into the
hands of Aaron, Caleb, Joshua, and finally to David and his
son Solomon and their high priest Sadlock. Therefore, they
are Bibliis arcanum arcanorum, which means, Mystery of all
Mysteries."
This book exhibits numerous of the so-called magic, or
secret seals. These are intelligible to those who are familiar
with, and can perform magic, etc. Others will be obliged to
satisfy themselves with mere reading, or trying to read same.
The
"
Seventh Book of Moses
" is translated into English
by Rabbi Chaleb, from the Weimar Bible. It includes many
mystical figures, (in Hebrew characters), tables, formulas,
etc. In a portion of the book, there is a chapter devoted to
" The Magic of the Israelites." To quote from it: " Having
already spoken about the import of Christian healing and
given more or less of a historical character, I will submit
the matter to each reader to form his own conclusions to
their special peculiarities, in order that he may select that
which is most instructive. One thing must not be omitted,
in conclusion, and that
is,
we must first become Christians
before we can perform cures by Christian methods. Very
few are really Christians who call themselves such; they are
only Christians in name and appearance.
"
The art of healing, according to scriptural principles,
deserves special mention here, because scriptural healing
is
often regarded as the only true one. The principles of this
art of healing have been fully established according to cer
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 7
tain declarations and doctrines of the Bible. (See Leviticus
xxvi 14; Deuteronomy xxviii 1 5-22, etc.; Exodus xiv 26;
also, Ecclesiasticus (Apocrypha) xxxviii 9; Psalms cvii 17-
20.)
" In this manner, therefore, there exists a higher medical
science than the ordinary one, and other pious persons than
physicians can heal diseases."
"
Honor a physician with the honor due unto him for the
use ye may have of him, for the Lord hath created him,
and he shall receive honor of the king. The skill of the
physician shall lift up his head, and in the sight of great
men he shall be in admiration." (Ecclesiasticus xxxviii 1-9.)
" If a being is in earnest to live in unconditional obedience
toward God, and becomes converted to God through living,
active faith, then God becomes his physician, and he no long
er requires the services of an earthly doctor."
For a physician there is also some preparation necessary.
"He must heal the inner man (the soul), for without
rest in the soul (inward peace), there can be no real cure
of the body; it is therefore indispensable that a true phy
sician must also be a true priest."
The reader of the above book will derive many facts
that for years have been more or less fixed in his mind,
but which he doubted because he could scarcely find the
source from which they emanated. If read for no other
reason than of passing interest, much is to be learned of
ancient practices, etc.
There is also included a chapter on the
"
Use and Efficacy
of the Psalms, and the many purposes to which they may
be applied." Each Psalm is then explained in full, and what
purposes it may best be put to.
A third book is John George Hohman's Pow Wows, or The
Long Lost Friend; " A collection of mysterious arts and reme
dies for man as well as animals, with many proofs of their
virtue and efficacy in healing diseases, etc., the greater part
of which was never published until they appeared in print for
the first time in the U. S. in the year 1820." This book is
the standard American work pertaining to the so-called art of
8 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
Pow-Wowing. The wide circulation it has had since it was
first published in this country, in 1820, would startle the
uninformed, but suffice it to say that numerous editions
of the Pow-Wow book have appeared from time to time,
and the sale has been remarkably steady; decreasing but
slightly with the passing years.
An edition appeared in Harrisburg in 1856, how large in
number, we have no means of knowing, but in this year of
Grace, 1929, scarcely a week passes but what orders are re
ceived by the estate of the said publisher for copies of his
edition of the Pow-Wow Book.
These orders come from almost every State in the Union.
Thus, after almost seventy-five years have elapsed since the
first printing in English and one hundred and nine years after
the first edition in German, the subject is still a major one,
and aside from the Holy Scriptures and the Dictionary, pro
bably no single book in America has had as consistent and
lasting a sale as Hohman's Long Lost Friend!
A list of the various editions of Johann Georg Homann's
Lange Verborgene Freund or Long Lost Friend, (and which
title might have been more clearly translated: Remedies which
have long been kept secret) , is as follows:
The first edition was published in Reading, by Hohmann,
whose address was Rosenthal, near Reading, Berks county, Pa.,
and the postscript was written July 31, 1819, indicating
that almost one hundred and ten years have elapsed since
the first edition made its appearance. Subsequent editions
known to bibliographers, are as follows: Harrisburg, 1853,
(in German, as was the edition of 1820); Westminster, Md.,
185 5, (in English); Harrisburg, 1856 and all following
named editions, in English; Lancaster, 1877; McClure, Sny
der county, Pa., circa 1910; Lancaster, 1912. Editions quite
too numerous to mention have appeared for many years, in
New York, Chicago, and Baltimore. These are commonly
called "trade editions" and appear without the usual publish
ers' imprint, and date.
In the 1856 edition (Harrisburg), appears, apparently for
the first time this benediction on the back of the title page:
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 9
"Whoever carries this book with him, is safe from all
his enemies, visible or invisible; and whoever has this
book with him cannot die * * nor be drowned in
any water, nor burn up in any fire, nor can any unjust
sentence be passed upon him. So help me." t t t
In the 1853 edition there appears a second part written
by Dr. G. F. Helfenstein, entitled: "Vielfaeltig Erprobter
Hausschatz der Sympathie," pages 75 to 108. The word
"sympathy" occurs in many old works on mental healing
and refers to the influence of imagination or conviction
upon physiological functions and ailments.
Several editions are always in print and are to be had at
almost any book store not dealing exclusively in new and
high-priced books.
Another pocket volume similar to the Hohman books, is
"Secrets of the Middle Ages," containing a fortune for those
who wish to follow the instructions of this Great Work in
Good Faith, and Belief. Published 1881, at Lancaster.
A curious pamphlet was published at Ephrata, Pa., in
1882, entitled "Weiber Buchlein, enthalt Arsitotelis und Al
bert/ Magni Hebammen Kunst." In 1818 Hohman also
published in Reading, Pa., "Die Land-und Haus-Apotheke."
We cannot overlook the works on "Beliefs and Supersti
tions of the Pennsylvania-Germans," by E. M. Fogel, (Phila
delphia, 1915) and "Current Superstitions," by Fanny D.
Bergen, (Memoir American Folk-Lore Society, Vol. 4, 1896.)
While on the subject of books pertaining to pow-wowing,
or witchcraft, and the like, we call attention to another,
called the Secret Book of the Black Arts; containing all that
is known upon the Occult Sciences of Dimonology, Spirit
Rappings, Witchcraft, Sorcery, Astrology, Palmistry, Mind
Reading, Spiritualism, Table Turning, Ghosts and Appari
tions, Divination, Second Sight, Mesmerism, Clairvoyance,
Psychological Fascinations, etc. This book compares in size
with others of its type, and has been on the market ever since
1878. It also sells at $1.00 a copy, paper covers.
10 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
The fifth of a common series of these books is called the
New Illustrated Silent Friend; "
Marriage Guide and Medical
Adviser; being a complete guide to Health, Happiness and
Wealth." It is replete with articles on debility, marriage,
various recipes, the Cabala, etc. Larger number of pages
than the other books mentioned, selling at $1.00 per copy.
A current edition is known as the
"
Sixteenth."
Pow-WoWING AND THE "MEDICAL PRACTICES ACT."
Another reference to a pow-wowing incident which has
just been brought to the attention of the public, is that con
cerning the death of a small child, but three months old, at
Fredericksburg, a suburb of Lebanon, Pa. It would be just
too bad for anyone these days to fully believe
" first reports,
"
whether published in the newspapers, or otherwise, because
so many stories are told on the spur of the moment, and
without regard to the whole truth. So in the case of the
three-months'-old-babe
"
pow-wow doctors
" are blamed for
its death. Subsequent developments in the case are of passing
interest, to say the least.
"
Death was due," according to the coroner,
" not to the
kind of treatment he received from the witch doctor, but
rather from a lack of medical attention." The child, who
died of malnutrition (obnema
—"take-off"), is alleged to
have been given two pow-wow treatments by a doctor living
in Berks county. The baby was treated first by a physician,
but the mother, upon being given the diagnosis of the case,
called in the pow-wower.
The girl-mother, Mrs. Verna Davis, 19, and her family,
with whom she lived, had implicit faith in witchcraft. So
far as learned by the coroner, J. Herbert Manbcck, no money
was paid to the pow-wow doctor, as the family was in
straightened, or poor, financial circumstances.
The bone of contention in the whole scope of affairs com
ing under the head of pow-wows, witchcraft and black art,
etc., is money! Did any money or other gift of value ex
change hands as a fee, or retainer? If so, who was the gainer
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 11
and who the loser? The answer may, perhaps, be found in
the "Medical Practices Act of Pennsylvania," P. L. 1911.
If certain members of the State Medical Board, or any
physician, for that matter, should take exception to the pow
wow doctor's practices, they have the law of the Common
wealth to support any actions they want to take. Medical
men are required to pass certain tests before being granted
a license to practice medicine and surgery in this State, and
upon payment of a fee they are permitted to practice. They
may dispense drugs, poisons, antidotes, or what-nots; all de
pending entirely on what sort of physician he or she may be.
Those who pow-wow are not admitted to the practice of
medicine, hence have no fee to pay; nor do they always get
pay for pow-wow treatments, and as seldom give, or dispense
any drugs, or the like. It is strange, but true, that a mere
acceptance of a fee, a
"
few pieces of silver," perchance, places
the pow-wow doctor in a peculiar position — subject to ar
rest and conviction under the
"
Medical Practices Act."
This is a vicious act that protects the medical profession,
but leaves the way open to them to take undue advantage
of the public, their patients, as is often the case. The patients
seldom have recourse to many impositions.
It is a fact that surgery has made wonderful progress in
the past few years, but medical progress has been relatively
slow.
Why the medical people object to an outsider telling some
one that he has a
" cold," or the
"
mumps," or even a broken
arm, is more than we can understand — even if home reme
dies are offered, and applied, and a fee obtained.
Read the act referred to, as passed in 1911:
AN ACT
Relating to the right to practice medicine and surgery in
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; and providing a Bu
reau of Medical Education and Licensure as a bureau of
the Department of Public Instruction; and means and
methods whereby the right to practice medicine and sur
gery and any of its minor branches may be obtained, and
exemptions therefrom; and providing for an appropriation
12 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
to carry out the provisions of said act; and providing for
revocation or suspension of licenses given by said bureau;
and providing penalties for violation thereof, and repealing
all acts or parts of acts inconsistent therewith.
Whereas, The safety of the citizens of this Commonwealth
is endangered by incompetent physicians and surgeons, and
a due regard for public health and the preservation of human
life demands that none but competent and properly quali
fied physicians and surgeons shall be permitted to practice
their profession: —
Section 1. Be it enacted, &c, That on and after January
first, nineteen hundred and twelve, it shall not be lawful
for any person in the State of Pennsylvania to engage in
the practice of medicine and surgery, or to hold himself or
herself forth as a practitioner in medicine and surgery, or
to assume the title of doctor of medicine and surgery, or
doctor of any specific disease, or to diagnose diseases, or to
treat diseases by the use of medicines and surgery, or to
sign any death certificate, or to hold himself or herself forth
as able to do so, excepting those hereinafter exempted, unless
he or she has first fulfilled the requirements of this act and
has received a certificate of licensure from the Bureau of
Medical Education and Licensure created by this act, which
license shall be properly recorded in the office of the Super
intendent of Public Instruction at Harrisburg.
On first offense, any person wilfully violating the provis
ions of this section of this act, shall, upon conviction, be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars, or imprisonment
for not more than six months in the county prison, or both
or either, at the discretion of the court; on second offense,
shall be subject to a fine of not less than five hundred or
more than one thousand dollars, and imprisonment for not
less than six months or more than one year, at the discre
tion of the court. * * *
Section 6. * * * The examinations conducted by the
said bureau shall be written in the English language, but may
at its discretion, be supplemented by oral or practical labora
tory or bedside examinations, or both. Such examinations
shall include anatomy, physiology, chemistry as applied to
medicine, hygiene and preventive medicines, pathology as
applied to medicine, bacteriology, symptomatology, diagnosis,
surgery, gynecology and obstetrics, medical jurisprudence and
toxicology, materia medica and therapeutics, etc. * * *
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 13
And, further, it shall be the duty of said Bureau of Medical
Education and Licensure, at its discretion, to examine any
person pretending to a knowledge of a minor branch or
branches of medicine and surgery, for the purpose of estab
lishing regulation and State licensure. * * *
Such is the law, and the half of it hasn't been told. As
we prepare this statement, we learn of more stringent meas
ures that will be brought before the Legislature of Pennsyl
vania, in 1929. Interested persons will seek to curb the ac
tivities of many persons who pow-wow, so that a preferred
few may enjoy rights and privileges to be thus denied the
poorer people.
When pow-wowing, or healing by prayer is brought to an
end in Pennsylvania, the law-makers and those who insti
gate the laws will find themselves in open controversy with
every Church in the State where prayers are said; not only
in the homes of some of the poorer classes.
The Churches are as much interested in this topic of
Pow-Wowing as any class can well be. There are offered
prayers, daily, for the relief of the distressed. Ministers pray
for individuals and for their recovery from illnesses. Where
in does that differ from the healing art under the head of
pow-wowing? No Catholic is said to be more devout in his
firm belief and convictions than are those who pow-wow, and
those who believe in it — nor makes more signs of the Cross
(t t t) than does the pow-wow healer.
Every church has slightly different ritualistic services, but
the aims and objects remain the same. Pow-wowing is un
denominational — has no recognized organization — or gov
erning head. The practice of it is persistent because of its
apparent results — be they psychological effects — or what
not.
The law and constitution gives one the right to worship
according to his own dictates. Why not allow him to say
who is to attend him when ill — that ought to be the pa
tient's business, not the State's. It's the individual's funeral,
whether he be treated by physician or pow-wow! The State
aims to protect the public from
"
quack doctors
" — but
14 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
who are
"
quack doctors?
"
It is an old saying that
"
the
devil, in full dress, is not distinguishable from the saint in
similar attire!
"
There are those who believe to a certain extent in the ef
fectiveness of pow-wowing, but failing in that, they may
be compelled to get the medical man for their illness. Even
though he may have come too late and the patient dies, the
doctor's alibi will be that pow-wowing was responsible. But
is pow-wowing to be blamed where thousands and thousands
of people
"
slip away
"
from doctors, for whom no faith in
healing by prayer ever existed?
The situation is complex; very much so. How enactment
of law will change the habits, customs and characteristics of
thousands upon thousands of people in this State, over-night,
remains to be seen.
For years we have had laws and laws, yet in spite of them
we have the law-breakers — and the guilty ones are not al
ways the poor and ignorant!
England still has her witchcraft laws on her statute books
— laws passed hundreds of years ago. Pennsylvania, gener
ally speaking, is living and riding on the crest of the tide
sweeping through the Twentieth Century. This State doesn't
need more laws to regulate her people. What Pennsylvania
needs is fewer and fewer laws, so her people can live in peace
and good health, as in days of old, before the lawmakers
and medical men commenced to take life so
"
seriously,"
and to regulate the habits and customs of his poorer fellow-
man.
CHAPTER I.
Pow-Wowing and Conjuring by Indians.
When Christopher Columbus discovered America — or
whoever the antiquarians and historians in the future finally
agree on (making little or no difference for our purpose)
— he found here a set of people which, because of the country
he set out to find, he thought must be the natives he ex
pected to find — Indians. Hence he called them Indians.
But Columbus was wrong — he hadn't found India, but
he did give a name to the inhabitants of this part of the
world, and later on, strange to say, another navigator was
honored by having the New World named for him.
When Columbus landed here he found red-skinned natives
inhabiting the land, and Columbus probably found, what
many other navigators, explorers, pioneers and travellers in
the New World found — that these red skins — Indians —
had been established here for many years. Evidence today
more and more points to civilizations and peoples in the New
World long before the Indians. What all these
" first
"
peo
ples said and did is not so clear — what, and how they wor
shipped, however, is more so. We know that they were sun
worshippers, at any rate. That being the case, we may draw
our own conclusions, and say that they practiced various arts
— black and white magic, etc., as did what appear to be
their probable relatives, the Egyptians, and others. This
would be but natural, for in the history of all ages, the en
tire world has at some time or another practiced some forms
of magic — or whatever one chooses to call what amounts
mostly to
"
hum-buggery!
"
At any rate the Indians in Columbus' time were great
practitioners of the art of prophecy, certain forms of magic,
and certainly most of all, what was attributed to them by
writers of later years, as pow-wowing.
[ n ]
16 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
Turn, in any good dictionary, to the word pow-wow, and
get the point made at the out-set of our discourse, that pow
wow is a mis-nomer, by and large, for the practice which is
so-called today. Leaning on A. Loudon's Indian Narratives
for a bit of moral support in our theory of the pow-wow
business, we quote from the very worthy accounts therein
from such men as Col. James Smith, for many years a cap
tive among the Indians. Smith says in his narrative:
"
Before we withdrew from the tents, they had carried
Manetohcoa to the fire, and gave him his conjuring tools,
which were dyed feathers, the bone of the shoulder blade of
the wild cat, tobacco, etc., and while we were in the bushes,
Manetohcoa was in a tent at the fire, conjuring away to
the utmost of his ability. At length he called aloud for us
all to come in, which was quickly obeyed. When we came
in, he told us that after he had gone through the whole
of his ceremony, and expected to see a number of Mohawks
on the flat bone when it was warmed at the fire, the pic
tures of two wolves only appeared. He said, though there
were no Mohawks about, we must not be angry with the
squaw for giving a false alarm; as she had occasion to go out
and happened to see the wolves, though it was moonlight;
yet she got afraid, and she conceived it was Indians, with
guns in their hands, so he said we might all go to sleep, for
there was no danger — and accordingly we did.
"
The next morning we went to the place, and found wolf
tracks, and where they had scratched with their feet like
dogs; but there was no sign of mockason tracks. If there is
any such thing as a wizzard, I think Manetohcoa was as
likely to be one as any man, as he was a professed worshipper
of the devil. — But let him be a conjuror or not, I am per
suaded that the Indians believed what he told them upon
this occasion, as well as if it had come from an infallible
oracle; or they would not, after such an alarm as this, all go
to sleep in an unconcerned manner. This appeared to me
the most lik: witchcraft, of any thing I beheld while I was
with them. Though I scrutinized their proceedings in busi
ness of this kind, yet I generally found that their pretended
witchcraft, was either art or mistaken notions, whereby they
deceived themselves.— Before a battle they spy the enemy's
motions carefully, and when they find that they can have
considerable advantage, and the greatest prospect of success,
then the old men pretend to conjure, or to tell what the
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 17
event will be, — and this way they do in a figurative man
ner, which will bear something of a different interpretation,
which generally comes to pass nearly as they foretold; there
fore the young warriors generally believed these old con
jurors, which had a tendency to animate, and excite them
to push on with vigor."
"
The Ottawas that worship the evil spirit, pretend to be
great conjurors. I think if there is any such thing now in
the world as witchcraft, it is among these people. I have
been told wonderful stories concerning their proceedings; but
never was eye witness to any thing that appeared evidently
supernatural."
Observe that the narrator says that the Indians
" deceive
"
themselves into believing their aged conjurors and their
various antics.
Let the reader pause for but a moment and allow him
self to presume a possible condition. Suppose the fire-alarm
sounds for the district in which the reader's home is located.
The reader is
"
down town," hears the alarm, and in a few
minutes some one known to the reader says,
" It's your home
that's on fire!
"
Unless you are an exception to the rule,
great excitement and nervousness overwhelm you, and noth
ing under the sun will change your mind as to whether the
fire was or was not at your home, except seeing for yourself,
or having later on had reliable reports. It may have been
a false alarm, or the fire may have been far removed from
your home, but you will note that it was easier to believe that
it was your home on fire, than any other, until you satisfied
yourself;
;'.
e., you saw the truth, and believed.
So different from Indian tribes, Hindoos, Chinese, and
Japanese in their various methods of deliberate deception,
whose masses could not seem to grasp the truth, as civilized
man today
is
capable of doing,
if
he but will.
Much trouble
is
caused today, as was true in past ages,
due to inability of man to readily accept certain new inven
tions, or to understand some simple truths. We want to show
how the art of printing was first received among the most
18 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
learned men of their day in Paris. Until printing, as we
now know it, was invented, the few scholars of that early
day had to be content with hand-penned manuscripts, etc.;
the poor had little or no chance to learn anything from those
better favored. Hence they were compelled to acquire what
knowledge they could by word of mouth, and family heads
became such as might be called teachers, which is giving
them a great deal of credit. The old Jewish custom, one
recalls, was that the family head act as the instructor to his
family, particularly in religious matters, and so it is to this
day.
For generations the people were kept in ignorance, with
even the Bible unavailable, or when so, it was found fasten
ed to its place with heavy chains.
Printing, when first introduced, soon after 1450, A. D.,
was so different an accomplishment, that after an inspection
of some of the first productions, it was pronounced the work
of the Devil; and by the learned men of the day.
We shall quote reference in full to the above, from the
History of the Devil, a work dealing with superstition, etc.,
by Daniel Defoe, author of Robinson Crusoe, etc.
It must be confessed there is a strong propensity in man's
nature, especially the more ignorant of mankind, to resolve
every strange thing, or whether really strange or no, if it
be but strange to us, into devilism, and to say everything is
the Devil, that they can give no account of.
Thus the famous doctors of the faculty at Paris, when
John Faustus brought the first printed books that had been
seen in the world, or at least seen there, into the city, and
sold them for manuscripts, they were surprised at the per
formance, and questioned Faustus about it; but he affirming
they were manuscripts, and that he kept a great many
clerks employed to write them, they were satisfied for a while.
But looking farther into the work, they observed the exact
agreement of every book, one with another, that every line
stood in the same place, every page a like number of lines,
every line a like number of words; if a word was misspelt
in one, it was misspelt also in all; nay, that if there was
a blot in one, it was alike in all; they began to muse, how
this should be? In a word, the learned divines, not being
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 19
able to comprehend the thing (and that was sufficient,)
concluded it must be the Devil; that it was done by magic
and witchcraft; and that, in short, poor Faustus (who was
indeed nothing but a mere printer) dealt with the Devil.
N. B. John Faustus was servant, or journeyman, or com
positor, or what you please to call it, to Koster, of Harlem,
the first inventor of printing; and having printed the psalter,
sold them at Paris, as manuscripts; because, as such, they
yielded a better price.
But the learned doctors, not being able to understand
how the work was performed, concluded as above, it was all
the Devil, and that the man was a witch; accordingly they
took him for a magician, and a conjuror, and one that worked
by the black art; that is to say, by the help of the Devil;
and, in a word, they threatened to hang him for a witch;
and, in order to it, commenced a process against him in their
criminal courts, which made such a noise in the world, as
raised the fame of poor John Faustus to a frightful height,
till at last he was obliged, for fear of the gallows, to dis
cover the whole secret to them.
N. B. This is the true original of the famous Dr. Faustus
or Foster, of whom we have believed such strange things,
as that it is become a proverb, as great as the Devil and
Dr. Foster. Whereas poor Faustus was no doctor, and knew
no more of the Devil than another body.
S A T O R
A R E P O
TENET
OPERA
ROTAS
—Magical Words.
CHAPTER II.
Pow-Wowing a Mis-nomer for Healing by Prayer.
What might be said of magic, conjuring, etc., belongs
in other works, and are but slightly, if at all related to the
present discussion.
References may again be made to the term pow-wow, as
related to its earliest uses.
The New International Dictionary says:
Pow Wow (pouwou), n. [Algonquian.] 1. Among the
North American Indians: a A priest, conjurer, or medi
cine man.
"
Sagamore, sachem, or powwow." Longfellow.
b A ceremony, especially in which a conjuration is prac
ticed, attended with great noise and confusion, and often
with feasting, dancing, etc., performed by Indians for the
cure of diseases, for success in hunting or in war, and
for other purposes; also, a conference of or with Indians.
2. Hence: Any assembly likened to an Indian powwow or
conference; especially a noisy frolic or gathering; more
widely, a congress, conference or meeting. Chiefly U. S.
i. Healing; medicine. Rare.
Pow Wow (pouwou), v. i. To hold a powwow: a Among
the North American Indians, to perform the ceremony
called a powwow. b Hence: To hold a meeting or con
ference; to confer; talk; discuss; palaver. Chiefly U. S.
The Century Dictionary says:
Pow Wow. 1. As applied to the North American aborig
ines: A priest; a conjurer. — A conjuration performed for
the cure of diseases. A dance, feast, or other public cele
bration preliminary to a grand hunt, a council, a war
expedition, or similar undertaking; hence, any uproarious
meeting or conference; a meeting where there is more
noise than deliberation.
Pow Wow (to)
—To perform a ceremony, among the In
dians, with conjurations, dances; to cure by exorcising
[ 20 ]
The "Pow- Wow" Book. 21
evil spirits. "She had the doctor pow-wow her arm, and
it got well." "The pow-wow doctor, more often a wo
man, is a person of importance among the ignorant farm
ing people in Pennsylvania-German communities. She mut
ters words over the affected spot, makes the sign of the
cross, and often gives the patient relief." Dictionary of
Americanisms.
Pow Wow (Indian powan, a prophet and conjuror in the
New England dialect.)
Pow Wow. "A corruption of powan, which in the New
England dialects meant a prophet, conjuror, or medicine
man, called in Ojibway, Wahens or jossakeed." American
isms.
All through, whether we use the Century, the Standard,
or the New International, we find substantially the same
definitions for pow-wow, none of them coming within the
pale of the so-called pow-wowing of today. The Indian gath
erings were Tow-Wows; so are Tammany Hall affairs, et al.,
but at such times, and places, little balm is poured into the
wounds of complaining and suffering humanity.
Therefore the direct assertion that pow-wow is a mis-nomer
for the more or less inspired practice of healing disease, etc.,
by prayer, and the
"
laying on of hands."
The author numbers among his friends several who are large
collectors of books on folk-lore, superstitions, etc., one,
at Baltimore, a well-known physician, having more than
2500 different titles in his library. Another, who is a wel
come correspondent, writes as follows:
"The word "pow-wow" seems to have originated with the
New England first settlers who adopted it from the Indian
title describing the treatment of the sick, etc., by their
medicine men. The practice itself is much older. It would
be interesting to go back into the practices which resembled
present day pow-wow methods."
"As to pow-wowing; it is a thing apart and peculiar to
New England and eastern Pennsylvania; therefore of al
most local origin. But, some of the remedies can be traced
to German and English sources so that local origin does not
mean original idea. Also, while it has about passed out in
other localities, the Pennsylvania-Germans persist in their
22 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
belief almost as generally and strongly and in much greater
numerical force. The first pow-wow doctors were Indian
medicine men. It took the fancy of early settlers and they
said "we can do that too." Instead of appealing to the de
mons and spirits in natural things, however, they appealed
to religious superstition, perpetuating a sort of religious sor
cery mixed with anything else that came in handy, and was
available generally."
"In the earlier ages, religion was closely interlocked with
mysticism and magic. Today, in this country it is the re
ligious people who believe the more strongly in the power
of pow- wowing; and pow-wowing derives its power from
the Christian religion and the Bible. Both depend for their
success upon faith and are in sympathy in many ways. The
awe of things biblical is a great force in pow-wowing. The
belief in evil spirits is common to both and the conviction
that the good can drive out the evil. Demons are supposed
to wilt at the mere sign of the cross. White magic deals
with the removal of evil and the obtaining of good only.
Pow-wowing is white magic, or sorcery. Where the purpose
is evil it becomes witchcraft, etc. Pow-wowing has always
worked with the church. However, there may be practitioners
who have used the art for other than unselfish purposes,
just as has happened frequently with the churches. All of
which shows how difficult it would be to stamp out pow
wowing, by ordinary prohibitive measures."
Little commotion is present at any attempts to pow-wow
under the
"
rules
"
and with the recipes found in current
books on pow-wows. A prayer-like supplication, sometimes
with various methods of massaging, is the rule of all
" heal
ers
"
using this method today. Why Hohman should have
called his book a work on
" Pow-Wows
" is more than we
can account for, except possibly for the reason that it may
have sounded good to him, or he may have adopted it as be
ing more effective, in that it was a word in common use not
many years before with reference to Indian practices, related
somewhat to the healing art.
" Pow-Wow
"
appears in the writings of not too early his
torians in America, in geographies, the works of Longfellow,
Hawthorne, T. Shepard, Elisha Kent Kane, Mark Twain, etc.,
but scarcely in connection with healing.
The "Tow-Wow" Book. 23
Hohman, however, collected some very promising prayers
and recipes, and in applying the title he did, found ready
sale for his book. For more than 100 years it has been a
standard book on the subject, insofar as the
"
arts and reme
dies
" are concerned, with no references to amount to any
thing, concerning the history of it. In that time no abuse
of the practice is very noticeable, and the public has seemed
to be entirely satisfied with the good which it seems to
have accomplished with proper use and application of its
contents.
The white and black art, which practices would form
another inexhaustible subject, has been attempted by innum
erable people, not only in recent years, but for centuries and
centuries. This is the art that is practiced probably with
more or less success, too, on so many of the poorer classes
of people, of all nationalities. Many are born with such na
tural handicaps as we see on every hand, and above which
so few rise. The many are in the same
" rut
" as followed
by their ancestors for generations past. Some of them may
be termed gypsies, some are found in Latin countries, where
the educational systems of the church and state teach su
perstition, and in most torrid climes, where the true religion
has not yet found its way. These peoples may be placed in
a class similar to the man who believes his home to be on
fire, until he has satisfied himself to the contrary, except
that the former seemingly cannot surmount the barrier of
the ages — the attainment of but a little knowledge, or com
mon sense, (somewhat above the instinct that even the ani
mals given to man have been able to retain through ages) .
The common run permit the wisest to control their minds,
and very little hocus poeus is necessary to make the average
person believe that black is white, and vice versa.
These practice and believe in black art, and magic, and all
forms of deception. But the man with a fair degree of know
ledge cannot understand how a person of low intelligence,
and unkempt appearance, or skin as black as coal, can put
a
"
spell
" on him, or his cow, or perform a thousand and one
24 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
other deceptions, that on investigation will prove to be im
possible.
It may be that the hand is quicker than the eye, but the
mind is still greater and can fathom these deceptions, if it
is at all exercised about the matter.
There is a truth in the statement that one can, by auto
suggestion, bring about death. Any person whose mind is
disposed to take up such a line of thought, in the end will be
able to bring about such result. Many human complaints are
due to a condition of the mind, which make one much of
what he is — ill, or healthy and well. Some times we think
of certain things we would like to have, or do; but it's true
that in most cases the wish is father to the thought.
The
"
pow-wow doctor
"
of the past was not a practi
tioner of the various arts of the Hindoos, the Egyptians,
Ancient Jews, or South Sea Islanders. He was a man of
common sense, a respected person in the neighborhood in
which he lived, and loved by all. He made not his living
by the profession of pow-wowing, but performed it as a
duty in his life — that of trying to heal, or save a life, by
the means of prayer and nature's own remedies. Truly, " his
brother's keeper."
Personal contacts with countless persons in recent years
has nearly always brought out the fact that those who pow
wow are most generally persons of mature years, and who
live righteous, upright lives; men and women of most cir
cumspect report. There are those, however, who do not al
together measure up to this description; some of them being
very much of the opinion that they can perform wonderful
feats of magic, etc., of which we have yet to learn of any
thing that appears phenomenal. Invariably patients of pow
wow doctors will say that they have faith in pow-wowing,
and on this faith page upon page might be written.
" Faith
can remove mountains," when assisted with common sense
and muscle. Faith can conquer the world! if consistently and
constantly applied.
Each and every living creature has a spirit — the spirit of
life — if not a soul. Man is the blessed climax in the plan
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 25
of a Great Spirit, and man possesses, according to his own
will, a large or small part of the Great Spirit. Any attempt
to fathom the source or origin, or flow of pow-wowing, must
necessarily deal with things unseen.
The world is full of material things — concrete and un-
guessed evidences of the things we need and use in our every
day lives. Water, fire, earth — all are visible — all are nec
essary to life. Air, invisible, unless liquified, is also necessary
as every one knows, and we feel its exhilirating effects 24
hours a day. But ordinarily, like the Great Spirit, air is un
seen, though its presence is just as sure and necessary — one
as the other.
Lack of belief in the presence of the Great Spirit does not
prove its absence. A process, such as a vacuum, is necessary
to remove air; but air is not Spirit! The Spirit is That Some
thing that is everywhere — at all times, and available to all
mankind. People of all classes, in all climes, and all beliefs,
creeds, and manners of worship, are united on that point, ex
cepting a few
" smart fellows
" and
" learned
"
professors
who believe largely in no thing but themselves!
Satisfying ourselves that a Great Spirit exists, we show evi
dence of faith, and there is no doubt but that it is faith
in the Great Spirit, and in ourselves, that makes possible some
of the manifold blessings we note on every hand.
Pow-wowing should be considered an attempt on the part
of one person to do some one else some good — to heal. The
processes or methods are varied. We are told that to learn
to pow-wow a man must teach a woman, and a woman teach
a man. Why so? No particular reason is advanced for the
practice, but in view of the light of centuries that healing
similar to pow-wowing has been practiced since the time of
Adam and Eve, it may have some basis of fact in that just
as man and woman are necessary for propagation of their
kind, so may it be that more effectiveness may result in the
exchange from one sex to another of the so-called art of
healing. This may be a random guess, but that it has for
many years been the recognized manner of extending the art,
is a fact. Custom, which means the continued use or prac
26 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
tice of something or other, has made it an almost binding
rule, seldom violated.
That the learned and the unlearned are believers in, and
doers of the art of pow-wowing, and have been for genera
tions, is common knowledge. That results have been ob
tained, and are being obtained daily, is likewise a matter of
common knowledge. How these results have actually been
brought about is the question of the ages. Assuming that
cures have been effected — leaving out medical or any man
ner of attempt, other than pow-wowing — we have doubts
that even the healers, or patients have any definite knowledge
of just what, and how, the results were obtained. It is rather
vague, or evasive, too, to say that " nature did it." No ad
ministrations of any sort were made — words only, were
said, or perhaps only mumbled, and affected parts rubbed
slightly, perhaps, and lo, in a short time — two, three, or
five to twelve hours; in some cases several days, great re
sults would show. Sometimes a third pow-wowing was neces
sary, and patients subsequently became as well as ever in their
prime.
In days gone by, pow-wowing might have been prescribed
for almost any ailment. Conditions were ever so much dif
ferent in former years, when doctors, or professional medical
men, were unheard of, or were not available. In those early
days nearly every home had some one or other who could
pow-wow, or heal, whatever you may choose to call it. To
us it appears no more nor less than faith in a cure — on the
part of the healer, as well as the patient. The question is
nearly always asked of the patient:
"
Do you believe in
pow-wowing?"
From the foregoing one may gather that faith is requisite,
and that with more faith as a purchasing power the world
of today would suffer less of the grievous ills that her peo
ples are compelled to bear.
People who pray for what they need, and who believe
that they shall be blessed with their needs, can, and do, with
sufficient faith and action, get what they pray for. This
holds good in almost every class of religion or cult. The
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 27
Christian prays, and his minister prays daily for the re
lieving of the sufferings and the increase of blessings for
mankind. The minister in many specific cases prays for the
suffering mortal — and the Great Spirit, unseen, ever so often
hears, and answers the prayer! The man or woman who thus
seeks relief is benefitted, in one way or another. Again,
we find those who seek aid by pow-wowing; and they are
cured! Again, the professional medical man may be sought
to aid, and as so often happens,
"
sugar pills," taken ac
cording to directions, in a day or two, also brings about
results!
Now where, of these three instances, does any one of the
principals do anything really startling to alleviate the suf
fering of the patient? Does the invisible faith hold com
munion with the Great Spirit, and thereby renew weakened
tissues?
On this matter no man can truly judge, but there is am
ple room for belief that faith and the Great Spirit are para
mount factors in all worth-while undertakings — whether
for the welfare of the body or the soul; commercial undertak
ings, or otherwise.
CHAPTER m.
The Relation of Psychology to Pow-Wowing.
How does the pow-wow doctor, or healer, perform his
mystical feat, cure disease, heal wounds, mend fractures,
draw out inflammation, etc? If any one does this healing
by voice of mouth, or the
"
mystical
"
passes of the hands,
the results are obtained by faith and the will of the Great
Spirit, not over-looking the natural results with the proper
psychological application.
As the great temples and holy cities in the Far East are
not for the profane and unbelievers, so is it with those who
seek the Christian religion, the pow-wow cure, or the medical
man — you must have faith — you must believe, to obtain
the desired results.
Before the era of the professional medical man in America,
it is enlightening to the student of mysticism to learn how
the people of that early day and age, kept their health. In
this connection let us quote from the letter of a Quaker,
who wrote in 1690, concerning the needs of the Colony:
" Of lawyers and doctors I will make no mention as the
country is very peaceable and healthy." There is no inference
that pow-wowing was, or was not practiced at that time in
the Province of Pennsylvania, or throughout the other set
tled parts of the New World, but our guess is that the
custom prevailed, though certainly they stated clearly enough
that they felt no need of doctors. In later years, however,
with raging fevers, and small-pox epidemics, the great need
for doctors, and hygienic engineers has gradually been felt,
and these men are a god-send, who have their fellow-man's
interests at heart.
Another phase presents itself to our thoughts at this time:
What has become of the old-fashioned doctor (medical) who
prayed upon entering the sick room, and before setting about
[ 28 ]
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 29
to administer the bitter pills that were expected to bring
about recovery? And where is he who used to pray before
performing the operation that might mean life or death in
a few fleet moments?
After all, much might be said of the sincerity, or in
sincerity, of a few who profess magical, or medical know
ledge, but who do not care a single whit whether the patient
makes the grade.
How true it is that the medical profession is just beginning
to discover that man has a soul, as well as a body. More and
more it is the duty of the medical man, and the minister to
know the truth of human complaints — whether they be
mental (soul) conditions that both professional men could
cure with psychological treatments, rather than
"
prescrip
tions." The medical profession can well afford to become
more religious and sympathetic, while the ministry ought to
become more scientific. Both need more faith, for faith is
life.
How many persons who believed in pow-wowing have
been
"
cured
" is not known to mortal man; nor how many
have been
" cured
"
proportionately, by the
"
sugar pills
"
provided by the medical man. That there are many cures
effected by genuine use of drugs, etc., by the physician, is
beyond dispute. How many poor souls have died as a result
of the
" failure
" of pow-wowing, might also be a sad tale,
if known; as would the sad, sad story of many whose ills
were more of the mind than of the body, and whose cases
had been wrongly diagnosed, or whose surgical operations
had been untimely!
Pow-wowing, or the art of healing by the recital of a
portion of the Holy Scriptures, as may sometimes be the
case, is somewhat on an alliance with the professional life of
a clergyman, or lay member of the church, who is asked
to pray for the needy; also with the professional medical
man, because not every case is really in need of medicine, but
is oft-times treated, as if it were, in order to keep the pa
tient's mind in a state of belief that good is and will result.
30 The "Pow-¥ow" Book.
All this with the one object in mind, viz:
" faith cures;"
be it treatment from either one of the three mentioned.
Churches of today are more and more recognizing the
art of healing by prayer, and we hear of the marvelous
cures in the Catholic Church, the Christian Science and New
Thought fields. Lately the Episcopal Church has sanctioned
healing by prayer (pow-wowing is mostly prayer by a lay
man, some being church members, others not connected with
any church) and newspapers currently report any number
of cures by prayer and faith.
Who does not know of the celebrated shrine of Ste. Anne
de Beaupre, in the Province of Quebec, Canada, where to
wend one's way up a flight of stairs to the foot of the
statue, is nearly paramount to a cure? Crutches are discard
ed there by the carloads! There, in the course of a year,
thousands upon thousands of the faithful pay their respects,
and before departing therefrom procure a number of Canadian
bronze pennies, which have been blessed by the priests, and
which are said to ward off heart disease, and numerous
other ailments which humanity is susceptible to. These cures
are not necessarily confined to those of Catholic faith, either,
it is claimed.
CHAPTER IV.
Reminiscences and Sketches from Various Authors.
In order to satisfy the reader concerning some points in
volved we shall quote several excerpts from various sources;
from books of history and reminiscences, which certainly were
not planned with the idea of hood-winking anybody. These
articles appear in reputable accounts by learned writers, and
from accounts largely pertaining to Pennsylvania. Many per
sons are satisfied to read in the course of a year's time, a few
monthly magazines, a few daily papers, etc., but seldom go
ing so far as to reach on a shelf for a book. Man has become
accustomed to shift gears on an auto, or twirl a dial on a
radio, and has lost the art of stretching to a high shelf for
a book upon which a bit of dust may have gathered. Most
homes today have three or four indifferent-titled books prop
ped up with gift book-ends that may make a very nice ap
pearance, yet all this has a tendency to sacrifice and narrow
the knowledge that could be their's, in order to be able to
call off readily such as are prominent letters in radio-broad
casting stations; or whether the
" A's " are at the top, or the
bottom of the column.
Because of the great amount of good which comes from a
faith in pow- wowing, if not from actual results therefrom,
we quote from Reminiscences and Sketches, by the late Judge
¥m. M. Hall, of Bedford, Pa. Judge Hall was a widely read
man and who travelled a good deal. Please note his article
on the
"
Stoppage of the Flow of Blood by the Reading of
a Verse from Scripture." If the reader knows of any town
of any size at all, in the entire State of Pennsylvania, in
which at some time or another, blood has not been stopped
by the reading of a verse from Scripture, said town is truly
an exception, that's all! (Presuming that the reader knows
" his Pennsylvania.")
[ 31 ]
32 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
Judge Hall, in his youth, was engaged as a surveyor in
Bedford county, and on the occasion which prompted the
preparation of this article, he had with him one axman, who
was known as John Kauffman. Hall, in telling of his strange
experience, goes on to say:
* * * When we were one or two days out, pretty
well environed by mountain forests, John was sent with
the necessary funds to get a quart of whisky to have along
in case of snake-bites. When he returned he produced a pint
flask full, and stated that the man who sold it had no quart
flasks, and, therefore, gave him two pint flasks, one of which
he said he had accidentally broken in crossing the fence. A
remarkable coincidence, however, was that John was vis
ibly intoxicated, and this gave rise to the suspicion that he
had drank one pint himself. While he was absent for the
whisky a part of the line remained unmarked, and when he
returned I ran back a half a mile or so to have him mark it.
Whilst I was taking a sight he was nicking in a fallen tree,
and the axe glanced and cut him severely, a deep gash in the
foot on the arch of the instep, from which the blood spurted
in jets, indicating that a small artery was dissevered. We
were entirely alone in a dense forest. I put him on his back,
with his foot elevated, and made an extemporized tourniquet
around his leg with a handkerchief and a stick, which I gave
him to hold, and hastened off, retracing the line to get our
party, and as soon as possible John was taken to the nearest
house and a doctor was sent for. He bled profusely, and
it was a long time before the flow of blood was checked.
That night we stayed at old George Ritchey's, in the
Switz. The Switz, or Switzerland, is the high ground be
tween the Blue Knob and the Allegheny Mountain; and the
Ritcheys of that day all believed that certain persons had
the power to stop the flow of blood; and so, in conversa
tion about John Kauffman's wound, they expressed deep re
gret that some man, whose name I do not recall, was not
sent for to stop the blood by repeating a particular verse
from the Bible.
This idea was new to me, and I rather controverted it and
expressed a disbelief in the possession of any such mysterious
power, until old Mr. Ritchey was manifestly a little vexed
by my scepticism, which involved a quasi censure of his
belief, and thus he addressed me:
"
Maybe you are one of
those young men that believe the world turns round and the
sun stands still." I assured him I was.
" Yes," he said,
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 33
" there are such people nowadays! What folly! How silly
it is! The world round, and turns round, and the sun stands
still! Any child ought to know better than that. Why,
the houses would all fall off, and the people, and the horses,
and the cattle, and all these heavy rocks you have been trav
eling over. What would hold them on when they get on
the under side? You don't believe in the Bible, which says
Joshua commanded and the sun stood still, and speaks of
the rising of the sun and the going down of the same. You
don't believe in the Bible, which says the flow of blood can
be stopped, and you do believe that the world turns round
and the sun stands still! Young man, you had better go
home. You've got a great deal to learn yet!"
All this was a new development to me, and put on inquiry
by it I learned that among the people of German descent in
Bedford county, forty years ago, the belief in the power to
stop the flow of blood, by repeating a particular verse from
the Bible, was not uncommon, and among the same people
at that time there were a number who did not believe in
the rotundity of the earth and its revolution on its axis.
The verse used is the 6th of the 16th chapter of Ezekiel,
and reads as follows:
" And when I passed by thee, and saw thee polluted
in thine own blood, I said unto thee when thou wast in
thy blood, LIVE; Yea, I said unto thee, when thou wast
in thy blood, LIVE!"
This belief still exists in some parts of the county. It
is not every one who can stop the flow. According to the
current belief, only certain persons are endowed with this
wonderful power, the basis of which is faith. It
is,
how
ever, not necessary that there should be any faith in the
subject to be operated on. He may be as skeptical as Bob
Ingersoll. And
it
will also work as effectively upon animals
as upon human beings, and upon small children as upon
adults.
I
have conversed with intelligent men of age and exper
ience, and in numbers not
a
few, who are firm believers in
this, and who say they must believe
it
for they have seen
it
done. And they relate instances of divers kind where, as
they think, people would have bled to death but for the use
of this mystic verse. And
it
is
not necessary that the faith-
operator shall be present with the person or animal who
is
bleeding. They tell how
a
messenger had gone in hot haste
and how, as was verified afterward by comparison of time,
34 The "Pow-Vow" Book.
the blood ceased to flow at the very minute the verse was
repeated.
The scientist would probably explain all this by natural
causes — the provision of nature by which the coagulation
of the blood when it comes in contact with atmospheric
air tends to stop the flow, and the concurrence of time as
one of those strange coincidences which sometimes happen
so wonderfully in human affairs.
There is a fascination about the mysterious which gives
it an advantage over the cold facts of science. But the pro
vision by which the blood coagulates and checks the flow
of the vital current, the tendency of nature to remedy the
injury and effect a cure, constitutes a mystery as wonderful
as the use of the verse, even if it had the power attributed
to it; nay, more wonderful by far. Who gave blood this
quality? Blind chance or intelligent design?
If Judge Hall's instance were the only one of the kind
on record, some might doubt the remarks, even of a Judge.
But there are countless others.
In Old Schuylkill Tales, by Mrs. Ella Zerbey Elliott, we
note several articles. One of them is entitled "Pow-Wowing,"
and reads as follows:
Pow-wowing is still largely practiced about the mines. But
when it is remembered that these healers of burns are prac
tical nurses and experienced in the treatment and bandag
ing of the injured parts before they recite the charm or in
cantation the cures they effect are not so remarkable. In the
'Seventies a woman lived at Minersville, named Mrs. Reed.
Dr. Wm. Beach said of her that
" She was one of the most
skillful dressers of wounds." When a man was burned at
the mines she could attend his case as well as any physician.
It was this ability that cured or helped the man and not her
pow-wowing to
" draw out the fire." But you could not
convince believers in the occult of this.
Erysipelas, a febrile or scorbutic disease, was very much
more common in the early days than now and came, per
haps, from eating too much salt meat. Everybody had the
erysipelas then, like the appendicitis now, diseases, like the
fashions, having their day. An old residenter, John Kim-
mel, who lived in a log house on the east side of the Presby
terian cemetery, of which he and his sons were in after years
the sextons, was very successful in pow-wowing erysipelas.
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 35
The writer recollects having seen him treat an obstinate case
that had defied the best efforts of a leading physician and he
cured it (or it went away of itself) with a lighted stick
which he held over the flaming parts until it went out, pro
nouncing certain words and making signs. Jacob Hoffman,
of Orwigsburg, was also a noted pow-wower. Both claimed
their work was done through prayer, and both effected many
cures.
Another article bearing out our statement that not long
since, books on the subject were much sought for. This
article is entitled
"
Superstitions of Schuylkill County." We
quote it entire:
All peoples, lettered and unlettered, have their supersti
tions. The heterogeneous mass of inhabitants gathered into
the two hundred thousand and over, population of Schuyl
kill county, seems to have centered and inculcated in its
make-up the combined beliefs of the folk-lore of all nations.
It is not strange that the early stories which the writer
has attempted to reproduce in these pages should have been
believed in the early days, but that people should still exist
in the county who believe in witches and witchcraft, seems
almost incredible, and yet we read in this enlightened age,
September, 1906, of one, a farmer in the Mahanoy Valley,
who accused a woman of bewitching his live stock. He paid
her a liberal sum of money to withdraw her diabolical in
fluence.
For thirteen months horses, cows and swine perished on
his land and he was unable to fathom the cause. He had
pure water on the farms, clean stables and good fodder. Vet
erinary surgeons could not stop the spread of death.
Whenever a witch died it was believed that her mantle
descended to her daughter and she, it is believed, could cause
her neighbor's baby convulsions, his cow to give bloody milk,
or his horse to balk or die. Women witches had the power
to turn themselves into the form of a sow, rat or cat at their
pleasure. Infants who died in a slow decline were supposed
to be the peculiar objects of the vengeance of witches, and
many were the queer remedies resorted to effect a cure.
The Lost Books of Moses, before referred to, and a book
known as The Long Hidden Friend (Der Lang Verborgne
Freund) by John George Hohman, of Berks county, con
tain many curious remedies for the relief of all the ills that
flesh is heir to, in man and beast. Strange to say, these books
are still in great demand.
The "Pow-Wow" Book.
In The Story of the Pennsylvania-Germans, by William
Beidelman, we read much concerning the home-life, customs,
habits and beliefs of the early Pennsylvania-German settlers
in the eastern and east-central part of the State. Mr. Beidel
man states:
Among the common beliefs, more particularly among the
less informed are certain superstitions, belief in fairies, and
hobgoblins, and ghosts; lucky and unlucky days; the in
fluence of certain planets on the elements, upon which sub
ject they have a vast amount of weather lore; belief in the
curative power of magic;
"
pow-wow
"
and the like. These
and many more are superstitions, customs and beliefs, not
altogether handed down traditionally, and communicated
from generation to generation, but most of them have been
preserved in the literature of folk-lore of which the Germans
have produced the larger part. The word folk-lore comes
from the German Volk, people, and Lehre, learning. So that
the traditions of peasants, and uneducated people, are mere
ly the result of that which was at one time believed by all
classes.
Even at this day much of the ancient folk-lore is found
to exist, and rigidly believed in by some of the most in
telligent people, as well as among the rudest and most un
cultivated people. How many people are there who would
care to start on a long sea voyage on a Friday; or go un
attended through a lonely graveyard on a night of inky
darkness?
Theodore Schmauk, in Who Are the Pennsylvania-Ger
mans, pp. 71-72, throws additional light on these hardy til
lers of the soil:
The dependence of the Pennsylvania-German farmer upon
the almanac for major and minor agricultural operations, as
well as for many activities of the household, and the faith
in proverbs and superstitions connected with the signs of
the zodiac, and particularly with the phases of the moon,
is well known, and continues in some measure to the present
time. In how far climatic influences are to be ascribed to
the influence of celestial bodies, in addition to that of the
sun, and how far the superstitious folk-lore of the Pennsyl
vania-Germans is dependent upon the tissue of superstition
which was universal in the Old World from which they
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 37
came, has not yet been accurately determined. But, doubt
less, much of their implicit faith even in superstitions is due
to the respect which they had for the forces of Providence
and Nature, as able to control, to guide, and to destroy the
most powerful of the efforts of man. Long generations of
experience generalized and summed up, often in fantastic
manner, in folk-lore, was the sort of wisdom on which these
keen and hardy agricultural folk were obliged to depend,
in lieu of anything better, for their agricultural operations.
A B R A C A D A B R A
A B R A C A D A B R
A B R A C A D A B
A B R A C A D A
A B R A CAD
A B R A C A
A B R A C
A B R A
A B R
A B
A
—Magical Words.
CHAPTER VI.
Pennsylvania-German Frugality and Pow-Wowing.
Men and women of today are more suspicious, though
probably less superstitious, than were those of the past few
generations. Great changes are noticeable especially since the
close of the last Great War.
Many of the strange manners and customs current in Penn
sylvania today, are found in the more densely German (Pala
tine) populated counties and sections. Of course superstition
is present in all races and classes. Pennsylvania is no more
saturated with it, however, than is any other State of like
complex. The German settlers in Pennsylvania have proved
more clannish and settled than almost any other type of
settlers, save the Quakers, probably. Yet whatever may be
said about Pennsylvania-German superstitions, pow-wowing
or other customs, can be applied and scoffed at in any other
race or nationality in the State. Of the most beloved class
in Pennsylvania, with all its faults and short-comings, we
point you to the Pennsylvania-Germans.
Count all the wrongs they have committed against society,
if any, and all the good they have done since the beginning
of the Eighteenth Century, and remove all of their record
from the pages of history, and see what is left! You create
immediately the greatest void in the creation and formation
of the greatest State in the Union! Pennsylvania is pre-em
inently a leading State only because of the presence of the
German settlers who really became the back-bone and the
bulwark of the State and Nation in their formative stages,
and in the time of need.
These peoples, while most always called Germans, quite
often include the French Huguenot, the Swiss, and a few
Holland Dutch, and others whose blood intermingled. These
were the original agriculturalists, horticulturalists, soldiers,
[ 38 ]
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 39
(when needed) , manufacturers, religious leaders, preachers
and doers of the Word, Indian interpreters, tradesmen, poli
ticians, bankers, etc. Truly their achievements are outstand
ing and everlasting.
Our Pennsylvania-German people are direct heirs of many
strange practices and beliefs. These come from the Father
land, and differ but slightly from practices of generations
ago. Whatever these may be, they cannot be considered any
more superstitious or lacking in faith than the
"
Catholic
adherent who kisses the stone toe of a saint." This act per
formed by an ailing person, while on the face of it, an act
of superstition, in the hope and belief of a cure, nevertheless
in many, many cases, brings about a cure.
Pow-wowing goes back ages and ages, though it has no
fixed methods, nor has there ever been any cult or group
organization established for its promulgation. It is a genuine
" hand-me-down," if ever there was such. No more com
mon expression is heard in rural Pennsylvania today, at least
where German is spoken in small degree, than hala, hala,
binkel drek, bis morga fre gaet ollus week! This, accompan
ied with brisk rubbing on the spot or part which a youngster
may have hurt in a fall, or bumped, is not strictly pow-wow
ing, yet it does in a measure help the child believe that in the
morning all pain will have ceased, and all be well.
Withal that pow-wowing is more prevalent among the
Pennsylvania-Germans than any other class, it must be said
that it is not confined strictly to that class. Nor are they,
alone, of this State's various types and nationalities, of the
most superstitious type. The study of the folk-lore of all
European countries, reveals a great amount of the same
practice, manners and customs surviving their settlement in
America, as was the case and belief in their homeland.
The Scotch-Irish crop out much, too, in our State's early
history, and where the Scotch and Irish were on the borders
and frontiers, there you found the Germans close behind.
And from this nip and tuck race between these peoples, there
has extended a line from coast to coast, each taking their
40 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
various characteristics and customs with them, into sister and
far-distant States.
While the Scotch and Irish scattered, the Germans as
sumed a clannishness, and formed small communities, towns,
and cities, so that today Pennsylvania has any number of
counties, cities and towns, where the Pensnylvania-German
tongue is heard almost as much as is English. With the re
tention of the language, there has also come down from gen
eration upon generation, much of the superstition that with
out much effort can be traced back to the Fatherland, on
through the dark ages, and even to the years 1200 B. C.
Superstition, while there is much of it all over the land,
does not rule, however. Much of it is harmless, and as we
grow older, we grow wiser, and some of the
"
proverbs
"
of
the superstitious are proving to be more witty than practical.
CHAPTER V.
Similar Practices are World-Wide.
"
One event is always the son of another, and we must
never forget the parentage," said a Bechuana chief to Casalis,
the African Missionary. If we but stopped to reason the
truth of the above remark, not much would the scientific and
learned men point their fingers and scoff at the lower classes
who believe, and even practice pow- wowing, etc. Consider
ing Europe and America's great educational institutions, and
great strides in learning, there is scarcely any difference worth
the turning of a hand, when speaking of superstition in those
parts as compared to the African negroid tribes. There are
countless other writers who take the same attitude.
For in America are we not superstitious of the number
" 13," especially on Friday, and more so on the third Friday
of the month; we dislike two-dollar bills; rap on wood;
blow on dice, and countless other little things, all uncon
sciously — all day long. And we do it because every man,
woman and child is the off-spring of a superstitious parent,
or certainly not many generations removed from such.
In England today the nurse scolds a child for getting out
of bed with
" the wrong foot foremost."
In Scotland
" There is an opinion that many entertain
* * * that a papist priest can cast out devils and cure
madness, and that the Presbyterian clergy have no such pow
er." So Bourne says of the Church of England clergy, that
the vulgar think them no conjurers, and say none can lay
(drive out) spirits but popish priests.
As mentioned above, we read in a book published in Eng
land in 1928,
" The belief that the priest owing to his office
possesses a certain power to put a spell on an offender, or —
as termed in Ireland — '
to put a curse upon him,' survives
till the present day." And this is one of the beliefs that the
[ 41 ]
42 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
Roman Church permits to go undenied wherever the cross
is carried.
To draw the line of pow-wowing, and not over-step it, is
difficult, for in research in the fields of bibliography, there
is so much to be gleaned from the pages of history that
one's head
"
fairly swims
"
when we take into but partial
account the great and divers manners and customs, as well
as superstitions of men and women throughout the whole
world. It behooves us to
"
gird up our loins
"
and grit our
teeth with a fuller determination to help others, rather than
condemn them for doing today, what our parents did yes
terday. America is full of false notions and crimes against
reason and society.
If we but understood more clearly the hidden secrets and
meanings in the manners and customs of people all over the
world, as they have come down through the centuries, we
could better appreciate our fellowman. Many trite sayings
and customs have had their source so far back as to have
lost their true meaning. To know more may command more
respect, and to respect others would be to know them, and
understand them better. Ignorance of race custom and ideals
prevents uniting the nations of the world.
If pow-wowing is healing by Divine power, it might be
well to inquire into the methods of the Master, who cured
many persons, and who said in John xiv, 12 — " He that be-
lieveth on me, the works that I do shall he do also."
Again in James v, 14 — "Is any sick among you? Let
him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over
him * * and the prayer of faith shall save the sick."
It is a well known fact that Jesus was not a medical man,
even though he was the Great Physician!
The average person today is liable to err in believing that
pow-wowing is something along the magical line, but this is
not a fact. It is not as widely practiced in proportion to
the population of today as it was years ago. It has always
been more or less of mystery to most persons, and to the
uninformed there seemed to be a dread, or fear; even at the
mere mention of the name. The secretiveness of it all has
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 43
come down through the ages. Before the era of printing,
practitioners of pow-wowing, or whatever it might have been
called prior to the time the English and Germans settled
among the Indians in America, and all engaged in the var
ious arts, sciences, religion, etc., were of a secretive, selfish
disposition. As no books, as we know them now, were
available in former years, quite some few records were pre
served and revealed in manuscripts. These were available to
only a few. Others in possession of knowledge of the var
ious arts, would communicate their intelligence to members
of the family, etc. Thus we see how the practices of olden
times have come down almost to date.
The so-called magicians of these olden times, as revealed
in old manuscripts, show a remarkable knowledge of the
power of certain drugs, for good and bad, and a thousand
and one other hallucinations which come properly under the
head of magic. Mention of it is made here to show and in
dicate to the reader that the deceptive arts are not a part
of pow-wowing.
Says another writer:
" The instinct of mystery, common
to mankind, among civilized and uncivilized communities,
appears to have arisen primarily from ignorance or limitations
of knowledge and fear of the unknown future." How true.
In the author's business life, it is frequently possible to
discuss the book of Pow Wows, and to hear people remark
about the Sixth and Seventh Books of Moses, saying:
" I
wouldn't have a book like that in the house; I'd be afraid
something might happen to me. You know some people can
put
"
spells
" on a person, or any of his live stock, if he
has a book like that!
" and so on
Is this ignorance? or can persons cast
"
spells?
"
But that
is not a part of our subject, and must, for want of time, go
over until some other event develops, when that and kindred
subjects can be taken up.
Of the great amount of magic practiced at one time in
the Old World, we have read an account, that in the city
of Ephesus, at the time of the Apostles, there were large
libraries with
"
books and books," upon the subject of magic.
44 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
Many who believed and practiced the art in that olden day,
brought their books, some of which even at that time were
thought to be valuable, being worth 50,000 pieces of silver,
and they were publicly burned. (Acts xix, 19). This was
a loss to posterity which would be impossible to estimate.
CHAPTER VII.
Early Superstitions in Penna., and a "Witch" Trial.
Watson, in his "Annals of Philadelphia and Pennsylvania
in the Olden Time," says:
Our forefathers (the ruder part) brought with them much
of the superstition of the "fatherland," and here it found
much to cherish and sustain it, in the credulity of the Dutch
and Swedes, nor less from the Indians, who always abounded
in marvellous relations, much incited by their conjurors and
pow-wows. Facts which have come down to our more en
lightened times, can now no longer terrify; but may often
amuse, as Cowper says,
There's something in that ancient superstition,
Which, erring as it is, our fancy loves!
From the provincial executive minutes, preserved at Har-
risburg, we learn the curious fact of an actual trial for witch
craft. On the 27th of 12 mo., 1683, Margaret Mattson and
Yeshro Hendrickson, (Swedish women) who had been ac
cused as witches on the 7th inst. were cited to their trial;
on which occasion there were present, as their judges, Gover
nor William Penn and his council, James Harrison, William
Biles, Lasse Cock, William Haigne, C. Taylor, William Clay
ton and Thomas Holmes. The Governor having given the
Grand Jury their charge, they found the bill! The testimony
of the witnesses before the Petit Jury is recorded. Such of
the Jury as were absent were fined forty shillings each.
Margaret Mattson being arraigned, "she pleads not guilty,
and will be tried by the country." Sundry witnesses were
sworn, and many vague stories told —as that she bewitched
calves, geese, &c, &c. —that oxen were rather above her
malignant powers, but which reached all other cattle.
The daughter of Margaret Mattson was said to have ex
pressed her convictions of her mother being a witch. And
the reported say-so's of the daughter were given in the evi
dence. The dame Mattson "denieth Charles Ashcom's at
testation at her soul, and saith where is my daughter? let
[ 4J ]
46 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
her come and say so," —"the prisoner denieth all things, and
saith that the witness speaks only by hear say." Governor
Penn finally charged the Jury, who brought in a verdict
sufficiently ambiguous and ineffective for such a dubious
offence, saying they find her "guilty of having the common
fame of a witch, but not guilty in the manner and form as
she stands indicted." They, however, take care to defend
the good people from their future malfaisance by exacting
from each of them security for good behaviour for six
months. A decision more wise than hanging or drowning!
They had each of them husbands, and Lasse Cock served as
interpreter for Mrs. Mattson. The whole of this trial may
be seen in detail in my MS. Annals, page 506, in the Histori
cal Society.
By this judicious verdict we as Pennsylvanians have pro
bably escaped the odium of Salem. It is not, however, to be
concealed that we had a law standing against witches; and
it may possibly exonerate us in part, and give some plea for
the trial itself, to say it was from a precedent by statute of
King James I. That act was held to be part of our law by
an act of our provincial Assembly, entitled "an act against
conjuration, witchcraft and dealing with evil and wicked
spirits." It says therein, that the act of King James I. "shall
be put into execution in this province, and be of like force
and effect as if the same were here repeated and enacted!"
So solemnly and gravely sanctioned as was that act of the
king, what could we as colonists do! Our act as above was
confirmed in all its parts, by the dignified council of George
II., in the next year after its passage here, in the presence
of eighteen peers, including the great duke of Marlborough
himself!
The superstition, such as it was, may have been deemed
the common sin of the day. The enlightened Judge Hale
himself fell into its belief. Our sister city, New York, had
also her troubles with her witches. Soon after the English
began to rule there, in 1664, a man and wife were arraigned
as such, and a verdict found by the Jury against one of them;
and in 1672, the people of West Chester complained to the
British governor, of a witch among them. A similar com
plaint, made next year to the Dutch governor, Colve, was
dismissed as groundless. The Virginians too, lax as we may
have deemed them then in religious sentiments, had also their
trial of Grace Sherwood, in Princess Ann county—as the
records still there may show. The populace also seconded the
court, by subjecting her to the trial of water, and the place
The "Pow-Wov" Book. 47
at Walks' farm, near the ferry, is still called "witch duck!"
The Bible, it must be conceded, always countenanced these
credences; but now, "a generation more refined" think it
their boast to say "we have no hoofs nor horns in our re
ligion!"
An old record of the province, of 1695, states the case of
Robert Reman, presented at Chester for practising geoman-
try, and divining by a stick. The Grand Jury also presented
the following books as vicious, to wit: —Hidson's Temple
of Wisdom, which teaches geomantry; Scott's Discovery of
Witchcraft, and Cornelius Agrippa's Teaching Negromancy
—another name probably for necromancy. The latter latin
ized name forcibly reminds one of those curious similar books
of great value, (even of fifty thousand pieces of silver,)
destroyed before Paul at Ephesus — "multi autum curiosa
agentium, conferentes libros combusserunt coram omnibus."
Superstition has been called the "seminal principle of re
ligion," because it undoubtedly has its origin in the dread
of a spiritual world of which God is the supreme. The more
vague and undefined are disposed to the legends of the nur
sery. As the man who walks in the dark, not seeing or know
ing his way, must feel increase of fear at possible dangers
he cannot define, so he who goes abroad in the broad light
of day proceeds fearlessly, because he sees and knows as
harmless all the objects which surround him. Wherefore we
infer, that if we have less terror of imagination now, it is
ascribable to our superior light and general diffusion of in
telligence, thereby setting the mind at rest in many of these
things. In the mean time there is a class who will cherish
their own distresses. They intend religious dread, but from
misconceptions of its real beneficence and "good will to
men," they, —
Draw a wrong copy of the Christian face
Without the smile, the sweetness, or the grace.
We suppose some such views possessed the mind of the
discriminating Burke, when he incidentally gave in his suf
frage in their favour, saying, "Superstition is the religion of
the feeble minds, and they must be tolerated in an intermix
ture of it in some shape or other, else you deprive weak minds
of a resource, found necessary to the strongest." Dean Swift
has called it "the spleen of the soul."
Doctor Christopher Witt, born in England in 1675, came
to this country in 1704, and died in Germantown in 1765,
at the age of 90. He was a skilful physician, and a learned
48 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
religious man. He was reputed a magus or diviner, or in
grosser terms, a conjurer. He was a student and a believer
in all the learned absurdities and marvellous pretensions of the
Rosicrucian philosophy. The Germans of that day, and many
of the English, practised the casting of nativities. As this
required mathematical and astronomical learning, it often fol
lowed that such a competent scholar was called a "fortune
teller." Doctor Witt cast nativities for reward, and was
called a conjuror, while his friend Christopher Lehman, who
could do the same, and actually cast the nativities of his own
children, (which I have seen,) was called a scholar and a
gentleman.
Germantown was certainly very fruitful in credulity, and
gave support to some three regular professors in the myster
ious arts of hocus pocus and divination. Besides the Doctor
before named, there was his disciple and once his intimate, Mr.
Fraily—sometimes dubbed doctor also, though not possessed
of learning. He was, however, pretty skilful in several dis
eases. When the cows and horses, and even persons, got
strange diseases, such as baffled ordinary medicines, it was
often a dernier resort to consult either of these persons for
relief, and their prescriptions, without seeing the patients,
were often given under the idea of witchcraft somehow,
and the cure was effected!
The superstition then was very great about ghosts and
witches. "Old Shrunk," as he was called, (George S., who
lived to be 80,) was a great conjuror, and numerous per
sons from Philadelphia and elsewhere, and some even from
Jersey, came to him often, to find out stolen goods and to
get their fortunes told. They believed he could make any
thieves who came to steal from his orchard "stand," if he
saw them, even while they desired to run away. They used
to consult him where to go and dig money; and several per
sons, whose names I suppress, used to go and dig for hidden
treasures of nights. On such occasions, if any one "spoke,"
while digging, or ran, from "terror," without "the magic
ring," previously made with incantation around the place,
the whole influence of the "spell" was lost. Dr. Witt, too, a
sensible man, who owned and dwelt in the large house, since
the Rev. Dr. Blair's, as well as old Mr. Frailey, who also acted
as a physician, and was really pretty skilful, were both
U c doctors, (according to the superstition then so
prevalent in Europe,) and were renowned also as conjurors.
Then the cows and horses, and even children, got strange dis
eases; and if it baffled ordinary medicines, or Indian cures
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 49
and herbs, it was not unusual to consult those persons for
relief; and their prescriptions which healed them, as resulting
from witchcraft, always gave relief! Dr. Frailey dwelt in
a one-story house, very ancient, now standing in the school
house lane. On each side of his house were lines of German
poetry, painted in oil colours, (some of the marks are even
visible now) ; those on one side have been recited to me, viz.:
Was Gott mir giebt What God has given to me,
Muss mann mir lassen, Must man leave to me.
An idea was very prevalent, especially near the Delaware
and Schuylkill waters, that the pirates of Black Beard's day
had deposited treasure in the earth. The fancy was, that
sometimes they killed a prisoner and interred him with it,
to make his ghost keep his vigils there and guard. Hence
it was not rare to hear of persons having seen a sphoke or
ghost, or of having dreamed of it a plurality of times, which
became strong incentive to dig there. To procure the aid of
a professor in the black art, was called Hexing; and Shrunk,
in particular, had great fame therein. He affected to use a
diviner's rod, (a witch-hazel) with a peculiar angle in it,
which was supposed to be self -turned in the hands, when ap
proached to any minerals; some use the same kind of rod now
to feel for hidden waters so as to dig for wells. The late
Col. T. F. used to amuse himself much with the credulity
of the people. He pretended he could hex with a hazel rod;
and often he had superstitious persons to come and offer
him shares in spoils, which they had seen a sphoke upon! He
even wrote and printed a curious old play to ridicule the
thing.
Lass Neider neiden,
Lass Hasser hassen;
Translated thus:
Let the envious envy me,
Let the hater hate me;
CHAPTER VIII.
Charms and Superstitions.
Phebe Gibbons, in the book "Pennsylvania Dutch," and
Other Essays, says:
Mrs. G., born in Lebanon county, says that when they were
children one would take a looking-glass and go down the
cellar-stairs backward, in order to see therein the form of a
future spouse. Another custom was to melt lead and pour
it into a cup of cold water, expecting to discover some token
of the occupation of the same interesting individual. A
person in York also remembers that at Halloween her nurse
would melt lead and pour it through the handle of the kitchen
door-key. The figures were studied and supposed to resemble
soldier-caps, books, horses, and so on. This nurse was Irish,
but the other domestics were German. A laboring woman
from Cumberland county, and afterward from a "Dutch"
settlement in Maryland, says that she has heard of persons
melting lead to see what trade their man would be of. My
German friend before quoted says that in the Palatinate they
melted the lead on New-Year's eve. In Nadler's poems in
the Palatinate dialect, St. Andreas' night is the time spoken
of for melting the lead. This is the 30th of November.
Further, in a work called "The Festival Year" {Das Fest-
liche Yahr), by Von Reinsberg-Duringsfeld, Leipsic, 1863,
the custom of pouring lead through the beard, or wards, of
a key is mentioned.
A lawyer, born in Franklin county, tells me that it is
a common superstition among Pennsylvania-Germans that
persons born on Christmas night can see supernatural things
and hear similar sounds. He adds that his mother told him
of a person who was skeptical and ridiculed the idea, and
was told to go out into his feeding-room and listen. He
lay down on the hay, and while there one of the oxen said,
"Uebermorgen schieben mir unset Meschter auf den Kirch-
hof." (Day after tomorrow we will haul our master to the
graveyard.) And his funeral was on the day specified. My
German friend before quoted says that in the Palatinate they
believe that as it strikes twelve on Christmas eve, all animals
talk together. She adds, "I think that idea is through Ger
many." [ SO ]
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 51
A gentleman connected with schools in Northampton
county, says that at Halloween his daughters meet their com
panions and melt lead into water to tell their fortunes. They
also fill their mouths with water that they may not speak,
as speaking would break the charm; and walk around a block
of houses. The first name which they hear is that of their
future spouse. Another practice, which, unlike the fore
going, may be tried at any time of the year, is to take a
large door-key and tie it within the leaves of a small Bible,
the handle remaining out. Two girls rest the handle upon
their fingers, and repeat some cabalistic verse; of which,
he thinks, each line begins with a different letter, and the
key will turn at the initials of the future spouse. These, he
says, are the remnants of old superstitions, and he suspects
that the human mind is naturally superstitious. He adds,
"The population of Easton is mixed so that we cannot tell
how many of these are purely German; but by going into
the rural German districts of Northampton county you will
find many strange ideas, such as that on a certain church
festival, say Ascension day, you must not sweep your house,
lest it become full of fleas."
A simple-minded woman in Lancaster county, who showed
some regard for the Reformed Church, said that she had
sat up late sewing the night before, so as not to sew on
Ascension day. "My mother," she said, "knew a girl that
sewed on Ascension day; and there came a gust and killed
her."
One of my German acquaintances calls my attention to
the salt-cake eaten in Lancaster. It is made extremely salt,
and is eaten by girls, who then go to bed backward without
speaking and without drinking; and he of whom they dream
is to be their future husband. This, he says, is a custom also
in Germany.
But the most universal ideas of this superstitious kind are
those connected with the signs in the almanac. Baer's
Almanac, published in Lancaster, still has the signs of the
zodiac down the pages, like one shown to me in the Palatinate,
where a man of some education said, "Here is where I see
how to plant my garden." What, however, is very mysterious
is that when our people tell us that you must not plant now,
for it is in the Posy- woman (and the things will all run
to blossom, and not bear fruit) , they cannot tell what is in
the Posy-woman, or Virgo. I infer, however, that it is the
moon.
52 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
I have been shown a German Bible, which belonged to the
grandfather of one of my neighbors, wherein the family
births were entered in the German language. I endeavored
to decipher one, as follows:
"1797, September den 9 ten ist ein Sohn gebohren ihm
Zeichen Witter, ehr ist ihn dent nehmlichen Mohnat ihm
Herren entshlafen."
"On the 9th of September, 1797, a son is born to us in
the sign of the Ram [Aries]. In the same month he fell
asleep in the Lord."
The same neighbor who owns the Bible just mentioned
tells me that one of the Russian Mennonites showed him
a pamphlet in the German language, which the man had
brought from Europe; wherein was told what would be
the fortune of a child born in each sign, his health, wealth,
etc. ; but my neighbor says that he, himself, had no faith in it.
"Grain should be sowed in the up-going; meat butchered
in the down-going will shrink in the pot." But my worthy
neighbors do not appear to know what it is that is going
up and going down. I infer, of course, that it is the moon.
Is it not remarkable that my neighbors should be so attached
to book-farming? I knew a woman, born among Friends,
but in a Pennsylvania-German settlement, who was lamenting
the smallness of the piece of meat on the table. "What a
little piece, and so big before it was cooked! How it has
shrunk! It is in the down-going. And those straw-berries,
too, that I preserved, that went away to so little; they were
done in the down-going." But one of her family spoke up,
bravely, "Just so, mother; that must be it. Now I know
what's the matter with my portemonnaie, that it shrinks
away so; it's the down-going."
These beliefs in the influence of the heavenly bodies must
be the relics of astrology remaining in the almanacs, and
never drawn now from actual observation of the weather
and the planets.
Mrs. Nevin relates the following (Philadelphia Press, June
2, 1875): "There are several superstitions connected with
death and funerals in the country, which are a strange blend
ing of the ludicrous with the mournful. One is that if the
mother of a family is dying, the vinegar-barrel must be
shaken at the time to prevent the 'mother' in it from dying.
Said a man once in sober earnest to me, 'I was so sorry Mr.
The "Pow-Wow" Book. J3
D. was not in the room when his wife died.' 'Where was he?'
'Oh, in the cellar a-shaking the vinegar-barrel; but if he
had just told me, I would have done it and let him been
in the room to see her take her last breath.'
"
Mrs. Nevin adds: "Another superstition is that the last
person that goes out of a house at a funeral will be the next
one to die, and as the audience begins to thin, you may see
people slip very nimbly out of a back or kitchen door to
avoid being that last one."
The belief in spooks or ghosts is not lost in "Pennsylvania
Dutch" land. In some of his verses Mr. Schantz tells (Al
len town Friedensbote) of an abandoned school-house stand
ing near a sand-pit, beside some woods.
A Lutheran clergyman said lately, "I do not believe in
spooks myself, but plenty of people do; and sad enough it
is that there should be such superstition."
Medical Superstitions in Pennsylvania.
Gibbons' "Pennsylvania Dutch" book says:
The peculiarities of a people are always best observed by
those who do not live among them, or rather by those who
visit them occasionally. Most of my notes on this subject
are taken from the conversation of physicians born in other
localities than those in which they practice. One in my own
county mentions the "apnehme," (pbnema), or wasting
away of children. He says that popular remedies are meas
uring the child and greasing it by certain old women. An
other says that the "Pennsylvania Dutch" also measure for
wild-fire or erysipelas, generally using a red silk string, and
measuring about sundown. They blow across the affected
part to blow the fire outside of the string, at the same time
they "say words" or pow-wow. This physician says that the
greasing above mentioned is for liver-grown children, and
not for "abnehme" (as it is spelled). One class of pow-wow-
ers do not interfere, he says, with regular practitioners; but
one old woman in this county (who builds a fire in the brick
oven, and says words over the coals) has been known to hide
the prescriptions of regular physicians. He adds: "If a per
son is burned, recourse is sometimes had to a professional
blower, who blows across the surface, saying words in the
interval. Along the Pennsylvania Canal, on the Susquehanna,
where ague prevails, the patient who has a chill is tied to
a tree by a long string, and he runs around the tree until
54 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
the string is exhausted, and then on to some distance. This
is tying the chill to a tree. A 'Pennsylvania Dutch' remedy
for whooping-cough, and one by which they bother the
millers a good deal, is to put the child into a hopper with
grain, and let the child remain until the grain is all ground
out. Blood-stopping is very common in Pennsylvania. I saw
a man with an artery cut, in whose case a blood-stopper was
called in. The man pressed his hand on the bleeding part
and repeated something, raising his eyes to heaven; but the
artery was too powerful for him."
On the west side of the Susquehanna the only county that
can distinctively be called Pennsylvania-German is York.
A physician in the borough says that town and county are
full of superstitions. He says, "In case of hemorrhage from
the nose, from a wound or from other cause, a common
cure is to wrap a red woolen string round each finger; another
is to lay an axe under the bed, edge upward; and you can't
talk them out of it. I used to get angry when I first came
here, but I found that it was of no use. These are not oc
casional things only, but I have seen them over and over
again. Then there are prayers for stopping blood, always
in 'Dutch.' They can't be sick in English, and the first
question to me as a physician has been 'Kansht du Deutsch?'
(Do you speak German?) One of the prayers for stopping
blood
is,
I
understand, for human beings, and another for
animals; and
I
think that the names of the persons of the
Trinity are introduced.
I
have often asked, but they are
not allowed to tell. Soon after
I
came here,
I
ordered some
boneset tea for
a
patient, and the mother asked in 'Dutch'
whether the leaves should be pulled upwards or downwards.
'Will
it
make any difference?'
I
asked. 'Oh, yes;
if
you
pull them upwards,
it
will work upwards; and
if
you pull
them downwards,
it
will work downwards.' [A valuable
hint for
a
physician
if
the same plant can be used both as
an emetic and
a
purgative.] Of the blood of
a
black fowl, —
no other color will do,—three drops are given internally.
I
think this
is
for convulsions; but
I
hear so many of these
things, and have heard them so many years, that they make
no impression on my mind. These are pure 'Pennsylvania
Dutch' peculiarities;
I
have found none or few of them
among foreign Germans."
I
asked whether these ideas still continue or whether they
are wearing out. "No," he said, "they don't wear out.
I
meet them every day. They will speak of horses and ani
mals being bewitched (verhext)
.
I
have
a
story from good
The "Pow-"Wbw" Book. SS
authority of a horse that was said to be verhext, and that
turned out to have a nail in his hoof. That is a fact. What
are you going to do about it?"
But to come to another county, Berks. I hear that in
Reading there is a woman called the Wurst-frau, because her
mother sold sausages and "puddings." This woman has a
large office practice in salves and powwowing. In an adjoin
ing county, Lehigh, I remember a few years ago to have
seen the names of two persons put down in the directory
as powvowers; the word being spelled as pronounced in
'Dutch.'
Norristown, in Montgomery county, is greatly Anglicized;
but a physician says that an idea exists of stopping blood by
a religious lingo, into which come the words "der Vater,
Sohn, und Heilig Geist." "A certain man told me that he
had never failed to arrest bleeding from wounds or even from
the lungs, nor was it necessary to be upon the spot; he could
go home and repeat his lingo. This was his only medical
skill; he did not claim to be a doctor."
In Norristown also I met a woman who had been quite ill;
but I heard that when better she would not get up on Sun
day, lest she should never get well, and Friday was as bad.
Her little grandchild having a birth-mark, she passed the
hand of a dead person over it to take it away, but was
unsuccessful.
ABRACADABRA
BRACADABR
R A C A D A B
A C A D A
CAD
A
—Magical Words.
CHAPTER IX.
Dr. Dady and the "Ghosts" of York County in 1797.
From Prof. I. Daniel Rupp's History of Berks and Lebanon
Counties, we quote references to an account of Doctor Dady,
an imposter, who tricked many people in Pennsylvania, before
the 1800's. He first made an appearance at Millerstown,
Lebanon county; then in Adams and York counties. We
are reprinting it in full for the reason that it concerns Shrews
bury, York county, people, in close proximity to the place
where Nelson D. Rehmeyer, 60, reputed "hex" doctor, met
his death at the hands of Messrs. John H. Blymyer, 33, John
Curry, 14, and Wilbert G. Hess, 18, (said to be "hexed"
by Rehmeyer), on November 27, 1928.
The account is as follows:
It was at this place [Millerstown]
—Rev. Dr. Dady—the
noted impostor, first commenced, by aid of his fascinating
eloquence, to gull the honest Germans. To show what may
be done among a people believing implicitly —"men un
tried,"—that place is given to the following. A wholesome
lesson may be deduced from it. When he failed, he tried
another region, more genial to his purposes.
DOCTOR DADY.
The following account of that noted impostor, is taken
nearly word for word from that written by the Hon. John
Joseph Henry, and sent by him to Philadelphia with the con
victed impostors. Judge Henry wrote the account from notes
taken at the trial. It follows, in most things, the order of
the testimony as given in by the witnesses.
Dr. Dady, who was a German by birth, came to this coun
try with the Hessians during the American revolution. Pos
sessing a fascinating eloquence in the German language, and
being very fluent in the English, he was afterwards employed
as a minister of the gospel by uninformed but honest Ger
mans.
[ 56 ]
The "Pow-Wow" Book. J7
i
When the sacerdotal robe could no longer be subservient
to his avaricious views, he laid it aside and assumed the char
acter of a physician. As such he went to York county, and
dwelt among poor inhabitants of a mountainous part there
of, (now within the limits of Adams county,) where, in
various artful ways, he preyed on the purses of the unwary.
Of all the numerous impositions with which his name is
connected, and to which he lent his aid, we will mention
but two. The scene of one of them is in what is now Adams
county, where he dwelt; and of the other in the "barrens"
of York county.
The following is an account of the Adams county im
position: —
Rice Williams, or rather Rainsford Rogers, a New Eng-
lander, and John Hall, a New Yorker, (both of whom had
been plundering the inhabitants of the southern states by
their wiles,) came to the house of Clayton Chamberlin, a
neighbor of Dady, in July, 1797.
On the following morning, Dady went to Chamberlain's,
and had a private conversation between Williams and Hall,
before breakfast. After Dady had left them, Williams asked
Chamberlain whether the place was not haunted. Being
answered in the negative, he said that it was haunted —that
he had been born with a veil over his face—could see spirits,
and had been conducted thither, sixty miles, by a spirit. Hall
assented to the truth of this. In the evening of the same
day, they had another interview with Dady. Williams then
told Chamberlain, that if he would permit him to tarry over
night, he would show him a spirit. This being agreed to,
they went into a field in the evening, and Williams drew
a circle on the ground, around which he directed Hall and
Chamberlain to walk in silence. A terrible screech was
soon heard proceeding from a black ghost (!!!) in the woods,
at a little distance from the parties, in a direction opposite
to the place where Williams stood. In a few minutes a white
ghost appeared, which Williams addressed in a language
which those who heard him could not understand —
the ghost replied in the same language! After his ghostship
had gone away, Williams said that the spirit knew of a treas
ure which it was permitted to discover to eleven men—they
must be honest, religious and sensible, and neither horse jock
eys nor Irishmen.
The intercourse between Williams and Dady now ceased
to be apparent; but it was continued in private. Chamber
lain, convinced of the existence of a ghost and a treasure,
58 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
was easily induced to form a company, which was soon ef
fected.
Each candidate was initiated by the receipt of a small
sealed paper, containing a little yellow sand, which was called
"the power." This "power" the candidate was to bury un
der the earth to the depth of one inch, for three days and
three nights —performing several absurd ceremonies, too ob
scene to be described here.
2, f+ 'r\ A circle, two inches in diameter, was formed in the field,
in the centre of which there was a hole six inches wide and
as many deep. A captain, a lieutenant and three committee
men were elected. Hall had the honor of the captaincy. The
exercise was to take place around the circle, &c. This, it
was said, propitiated and strengthened the white ghost, who
was opposed by an unfriendly black ghost who rejoiced in
the appellation of Pompey. In the course of their nocturnal
exercises they often saw the white ghost —they saw Mr. Pom
pey, too, but he appeared to have "his back up," bellowed
loudly, and threw stones at them.
On the night of the 18th of August, 1797, Williams un
dertook to get instructions from the white ghost. It was
done in the following manner: He took a sheet of clean
white paper, and folded it in the form of a letter, when each
member breathed into it three times; this being repeated
several times, and the paper laid over the hole in the centre
of the circle, the instructions of the ghost were obtained. The
following is a short extract from the epistle writen by the
ghost:
"Go on, and do right, and prosper, and the treasure shall
be yours. I am permitted to write this in the same hand I
wrote in the flesh for your direction —O "^ES. Take
care of your powers in the fear of God our protector —if
not, leave the work. There is a great treasure, 4000 pounds
a-piece for you. Don't trust the black one. Obey orders. —
Break the enchantment, which you will not do until you get
an ounce of mineral dulcimer eliximer; some German doctor
has it. It is near, and dear, and scarce. Let the committee
get it—but don't let the Doctor know what you are about —
he is wicked."
The above is but a small part of this precious communica
tion. In consequence of these ghostly directions, a young
man named Abraham Kephart waited, by order of the com
mittee, on Dr. Dady. The Dr. preserved his eliximer in a
bottle sealed with a large red seal, and buried in a heap of
oats, and demanded fifteen dollars an ounce for it. Young
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 59
Kephart could not afford to give so much, but gave him
thirty-six dollars and three bushels of oats for three ounces
of it. Yost Liner, another of these wise committee men, gave
the Doctor $121.00 for eleven ounces of the stuff.
The company was soon increased to 30 persons, many of
whom were wealthy. Among those who were most miser
ably duped may be mentioned Clayton Chamberlain, Yost
Liner, Thomas Bigham, William Bigham, Samuel Togert,
John M'Kinney, James Agnew the elder, James M'Cleary,
Robert Thompson, David Kissinger, George Sheckley, Peter
Wikeart, and John Philips. All these and many other men
were, in the words of the indictment, "cheated and defrauded
by means of certain false tokens and pretences, to wit: by
means of pretended spirits, certain circles, certain brown pow
der, and certain compositions called mineral dulcimer elixer,
and Detericks' mineral elixer."
But the wiles of these imposters were soon exerted in other
parts. The following is an account of their proceedings in
and about Shrewsbury township, in York county. Williams
intimated that he had received a call from a ghost resident
in those parts, at the distance of forty miles from Dady's.
Jacob Wister, one of the conspirators, was the agent of
Williams on this occasion. He instituted a company of twen
ty-one persons, all of whom were, of course, most ignorant
people. The same and even more absurd ceremonies were
performed by these people, and the communications of the
ghost were obtained in a still more ridiculous manner than
before. The communications mentioned Dr. Dady as the
person from whom they should obtain the dulcimer elixer,
as likewise a kind of sand which the ghost called "Asiatic
sand," and which was necessary in order to give efficacy to
the "powers." Ulrich Neaff, a committee man of this com
pany, paid Dr. Dady ninety dollars for seven and a half
ounces of the elixer. The elixer was put into vials, and each
person who had one of them, held it in his hand and shook
it as he pranced round the circle; on certain occasions he
annointed his head with it, and afterwards, by order of the
spirit, the phial was buried in the ground.
Paul Baliter, another of the committee men, took with
him to Dr. Dady's, a hundred dollars to purchase "Asiatic
sand," at three dollars per ounce. Dady being absent, Wil
liams procured from the Doctor's shop as much sand as the
money would purchase. In this instance, Williams cheated
the Doctor, for he kept the spoil to himself, and thence
arose an overthrow of the good fraternity.
60 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
Each of them now set up for himself. Williams procured
directions from his ghost, that each of the companies should
despatch a committee to Lancaster to buy "Deterick's min
eral elixer," of a physician in that place. In the meantime
Williams and his wife went to Lancaster, where they prepared
the elixer, which was nothing but a composition of copperas
and cayenne pepper. Mrs. Williams, as the wife of John
Huber, a German doctor, went to Dr. Rose, with a letter
dated "13 miles from Newcastle, Delaware," which directed
him how to sell the article, &c. The enormity of the price
aroused the suspicion of Dr. Rose. In a few days the dele
gates from the committee arrived, and purchased elixer to the
amount of $740.33. When the lady came for the money,
she was arrested, and the secret became known. Her husband,
Williams, escaped.
The Lancaster expedition having led to a discovery of the
tricks of the imposters, a few days after the disclosures made
by Mrs. Williams, an indictment was presented in the crim
inal court of York county, against Dr. John Dady, Rice
Williams, Jesse Miller, Jacob Wister, the elder, and Jacob
Wister, the younger, for a conspiracy to cheat and defraud.
The trial took place in June following, and resulted in the
conviction of Wister, the elder, and Dr. Dady—the former
of whom was fined ten dallars, and imprisoned one month in
the county jail, the latter fined ninety dollars, and sentenced
to two years confinement in the penitentiary at Philadelphia.
Dady had just been convicted of participating in the con
spiracy in Shrewsbury, when he and Hall were found guilty
of a like crime in Adams county—whereupon Hall was fined
one hundred dollars and sent to the penitentiary for two
years, and Dady was fined one hundred and sixty dollars,
and sentenced to undergo an additional servitude of two years
in the penitentiary, to commence in June, 1880, when his
first term would expire.
Thus ended the history of Doctor Dady, who certainly was
not devoid of talent, who possessed a most winning address,
and was a thorough master in quick and correct discernment
of character. He reigned, for a season, with undisputed
sway, in what was then the western part of York county.
His cunning, for a long time, lulled suspicion to sleep. The
history of his exorcisms should teach the credulous that the
ghosts which appear now-a-days are as material as our own
flesh. —History of York County.
CHAPTER X.
An Interview With a Pow-Wow Doctor.
Curious to learn some facts regarding pow-wowing, the
author made diligent inquiry from one who, he understood,
could heal. This man, in his 60's, is well preserved in body
and mind, and freely answered all questions. It was sur
prising to have him answer so many queries in a way that
bore out almost every theory that had already been set down
on paper in preparation for this edition.
Without one's stenographer it is rather difficult to remem
ber exactly what all has been said in an hour's conversation,
but enough has been preserved from said visit to convince
the writer that the one spoken to is a firm believer in pow
wowing. As said, for the most part, his answers, even those
made to
"
leading questions," did not give much new ma
terial.
To start with, he descends from Pennsylvania-German
stock, and had been taught to pow-wow by his mother. He
could give no reason why one must teach the art to one of
the opposite sex; said that he had never heard why; but that
it was the unwritten rule, or custom.
This man declares that he never has used any drugs or
recipes for any of the healings that he has undertaken. When
asked whether he
" tried
"
for any and all complaints, he said
that he did not; that he took more interest in cases such
as erysipelas (wildfeiar, for which he would "blow fire"),
malnutrition (decay, or obnema; sometimes termed
" rick
ets," a children's disease) , and certain types of sore eyes. But
he says that in years gone by he has stopped blood, by the
recital of a well-known passage of Scripture, which at the
moment he could not recall.
The writer has heard of numerous instances where this
man had supposedly cured erysipelas.
[ 61 ]
62 The "Pow-WoV Boor.
For obnema, or malnutrition, a red silk thread must be
provided by the parents, or from the home wherein the sick
person is to be
" tried for."
This
"
tried for," by the way, is described as the process
of praying while attending a child, or with an adult. Babies,
of course, are not able to respond in like manner as the
healer directs for adults, but prayers are answered neverthe
less in the same way as for adults. For children, it is pre
sumed that the parents stand sponsor, as in all church affairs,
and furthermore, it is said that a tender Father stands watch
over these little ones, even more so than over those of mature
years. Adults, however, most generally repeat the words, or
prayer, of the healer, and in many cases, three times over.
Cures are not always effected in one trial. Sometimes the
healer may try for half a dozen times, or even a dozen
times, yet may not be successful. If not, they are usually
obliged to give up, for faith may be lacking in the patient,
or in the healer. But a genuine, well-prepared and learned-
healer, with a receptive and a believing patient, quite fre
quently gets an answer, for complaints which are common
to man.
Yes, there are
" answers
" to pow-wow efforts, just as
much so as in the old time revival meetings when one could
" feel religion coming on." The one feeling is just as plaus
ible and probable as the other. If the healer has been suc
cessful in his effort he will almost surely get an answer, it is
said. This is generally felt by a sudden chilly, creepy feel
ing, up and down the back of the healer. In minor cases
probably this is not so much pronounced, but in more serious
cases, and there are many, if much praying, or trying, is
necessary, it is not improbable that the healer has some re
action. It may be reaction from the efforts, or an answer
from
" above," but the righteous some times do have and
enjoy certain blessings that are denied others.
Pow-wowing, we have been told, should not be attempted
by persons who have not reached the age of at least 30,
or more years, nor by persons commonly called
" profane."
One must believe in God, and in the Holy Scriptures. None
The 'Tow-Wow" Book. 63
of weak or unsound bodies should
"
try
" on, or for another
person. Only those of strong constitutions should undertake
to heal by this method. The reason set forth is that in the
process of healing the natural strength seems to ebb away,
as though to mutually assist and help the weaker body, and
there are instances noted that where the second or third
" trial
" had so weakened other healers that they had to
be placed in bed.
This informant could not tell when pow-wowing origin
ated — except that it has been in practice for many years.
He mentioned that a certain book was often used as an aid
to pow-wow doctors. This he said was Hohman's Long Lost
Friend, and the one he has at his home is similar to one in
the possession of the author, and which was printed in Har-
risburg, in 1856, and bound with wall-paper board covers.
He does not use the book, nor has he for years, for as
explained, he had his
"
pet
" cures, and preferred to assist
any needy person when called on, at any time, or place.
When asked whether he wasn't afraid the medical profes
sion (mentioned so frequently in the daily papers), might
prosecute him if they found him
" healing
"
people, he
said that he could not see why they should. He said he
never did, and never would accept anything for what he had
done for others. But it has been the rule, he believes, that
if any persons wanted to, of their own free will, give some
thing to the healer, that there was nothing amiss in it; these
pow-wow specialists are sometimes required to travel many
miles to accommodate persons who request the treatment, and
naturally some expense would be incident to such journey.
His mother, he said, told him, "Don't you ever take any
thing from anyone if you ever do pow-wow for them."
He said he thought it tended to destroy one's usual effect
iveness.
Not long ago he joined the Episcopal church and he said
that they have regular meetings there whereat prayers are
offered for the
" sick, lame and halt." One woman, deaf for
many years, can now hear sounds and is being benefitted.
The minister in charge, too, is being recognized, for someone
64 The "Pow-¥ow" Book.
recently threatened to institute proceedings against him,
whether for healing or for attempting to heal without a
professional medical certificate, we do not know. But the
Episcopal Church is backing healing by faith and prayer,
and many say
"
more power to her." If carrying a rabbit's
left-hind-foot will bring good luck, or a horse-chestnut car
ried in a trouser's pocket ward off rheumatism, prayer and
pow-wowing won't do any less, and in this the writer agrees
with the pow-wow man.
He recounted one instance where a young man had a large
blister on the lid of one of his eyes. This condition was
causing the man much pain and inconvenience and medical
aid seemed to do no good, as he said. So the pow-wow man
asked the sufferer if he believed in pow-wowing. The other
replied
"
You bet I do!" So they proceeded to a convenient
place where they found a laborer who had about finished
his noon meal and secured from him a plate, greasy from
food, upon which the sign of the Cross (t) was made three
times. This was held even with the patient's face not over
a foot or so from his eyes. He was told to concentrate his
gaze on the plate and repeat a prayer after the healer a certain
number of times — probably three. This being done, nothing
startling happened — until about twenty minutes later, when
the blister burst! and gave the patient immediate relief, and
the start of an early cure.
Why he used the plate he could not fully explain, except
that he knew his mother to have treated a similar case in that
manner many years before, and in one
" try
"
only, he re
ceived his answer. The recipe for this cure is noted in Hoh-
man's Long Lost Friend.
The pow-wow man above referred to, is a prominent Har-
risburg man, whose name, if mentioned, would bring many
an answer,
" Why, I know him."
CHAPTER XI.
Occasional Confidential Talks With Skeptics, et al.
The author has, perhaps, an unusual advantage over the
average person who makes no special effort to secure data
on the beliefs and superstitions of mankind, especially with
reference to Pennsylvanians. A daily contact with people in
almost all walks of life certainly develops some strange and
enlightening conversations and situations.
The manner of approach to strangers is difficult quite
often, and what might prove most interesting developments,
must pass by. But there are others who will talk, and talk
freely on almost any subject. Today, January 3, 1929, for
instance, one, an almost daily caller, when shown a copy of
the Long Lost Friend for the purpose of
"
drawing him out,"
threw up his hands in horror. This person objected to any
and all parts of the pow-wow art, on general principles, and
without knowing any of its material parts. He condemns
the person who goes about in the practice of such art, or who
stays at home for that matter, and attacks a certain church
denomination for its practices of healing, more especially
because the now deceased head of the church is placed on
such an unusually high spiritual plane — even on a par with
the Master, it is claimed. We suggested that each class, or
group of people, had a right to pray, or heal, as they saw
fit, since it was apparent that the world was too large and
varied in its tastes, to be satisfied with one or two church
denominations! He said that he'd like to talk that matter
over for about three or four hours, which he did not, how
ever, through lack of time. This man's mind is
" fixed,"
and he is determined that a Christian can pray and get good
results, but if he has to pow-wow, or act in a supposedly mys
terious way —"
nothing doing," as he said. His attitude is
like those who believe that they can cast spells, or perform
[ 65 ]
66 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
other spectacular phenomena — but which is neither more
nor less than natural, and not produced by supernatural con
ditions, at all. His mind, like those who believe they can
cast spells, in the everyday language of the street, is called
a
"
single track
" mind.
Another opinion we narrate as having followed closely after
the above conversation.
A woman of mature years, about 52, said "Do you sell
'
dream books '? You know it may seem strange to you,
and I am not at all superstitious; but I like to look at dream
books, and study them. So many, many, of my dreams come
true, and I think I will want a book about dreams. I'm not
superstitious," she repeated,
" but I believe in dreams. My
former pastor, the Rev. Dr. H , used to say to me,
'
don't
keep your dreams too far from you.' I'll take this dream
book, it looks pretty good!" This woman was asked whether
she believed in pow-wowing.
" Oh, my, no! Isn't it just
awful how things are mixed up down in Lancaster and York
counties?"
If only the reader could follow the various experiences
of a book dealer from day to day! The publication of the
various conditions of mankind, their beliefs, their supersti
tions, their down-right ignorance in many cases, (based on the
kindi of books they read, and from what they tell uncons
ciously in the course of conversation, all of which the dealer
can draw from many of those with whom he comes in con
tact) , would make more than interesting reading — it would
form a very considerable contribution to the folk-lore and
custom literature of the age.
In the foregoing the man believed prayer by a Christian
would effect good; but by the pow-wow method, no matter
how good the man or woman might be, no matter how sin
cere the effort — he would not believe in its having a place
in everyday life. To differentiate between the two methods
would require much time and talent!
The woman mentioned, prominent in a local church, is
not at all superstitious (she says), but believes in dreams.
Yet dreams, the common affairs of the night, are said to be
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 67
caused by a condition of the body — indigestion, congestion,
slight strictures, etc., which pass in a flash of time, and which
are recalled in the morning; dreams are also sometimes fos
tered by an easily pliable mind, and what we sometimes say
about the
"
wish being father to the thought
"
may be ap
plied with reason to what many persons have believed to be
"
dreams
"
revealing great prophecies, etc.
On December 19, 1928, one Charles D. Lewis, colored, ob
served that he had carried a Pow-Wow book with him at
all times for a period of 16 years, and had never, in that
length of time, had an accident. (The author of the Pow-
Wow book claims that the person who carries said book with
him will thus be protected, and from which assertion many
persons have, in years gone by, followed the suggestion, and
claim to have been immune from many of the pitfalls in
life). He lost his book just a short time previous to the
above date, and seems to have had his first accident after
its loss. He was happy, he said, to have procured another
copy. He claims to have been a much-traveled man, too,
having been a fireman for several large steamship companies,
whose ships carried him into almost all waters of the world.
He was on board a White Star liner during the late World
War, as a fireman, and while in the vicinity of Suez, his ship
was taken over, and assigned to the British Admiralty Service,
and said Lewis was mustered into the British navy. He
thereby became what was likely the only Harrisburg man
to serve in His Majesty's navy during the war. In his many
miles of travel he claims that possession of the book preserved
him against accidents. He seems to carry it for that reason,
and not that he ever makes use of it as a pow-wow "doctor."
CHAPTER XII.
An Amulet Used During the World War.
During the late World War, while the author was en
gaged in the publishing of a newspaper, following closely af
ter the declaration of war by the United States, and previous
to his own enlistment, he received an order from some per
son in a nearby village for a small job of printing. At that
time no particular attention or notice was paid to it, although
"samples" of it, like all commercial printing jobs, were faith
fully kept over a series of years.
Upon the opening up of the discussion of pow-wowing
and the like, we recalled the "Letter of Protection," which
we had been engaged to print more than 10 years ago.
The number printed at that time was not large,—say
one or two hundred. These, we understood at the time, were
to be distributed by the party who purchased them, to young
men who entered the army from Snyder, Union, Juniata and
Mifflin counties, friends of the donors, and from our know
ledge and experience with these people in a life-time residence
among them, we feel sure that nearly every lad who was for
tunate enough to be presented with a copy of the "Letter,"
carried it with him during the whole period of his enlistment.
Experience teaches that it pays to be superstitious during
war times, especially while in the service.
There's just a little bit of satisfaction, during such seasons
as wars, it seems, to have some assurance, however "foolish"
it might seem at any other time, and doubtless many a
lad placed much, or at least a small faith in the letter. A
copy of it, still preserved, will bear reprinting at this time
as a record of the folk-lore and beliefs at this late date.
The letter reads as follows:
[ 68 ]
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 69
A Letter for Protection.
In the name of God the Father, the Son and Holy Ghost:
As Christ stopped at the Mount of Olives, all guns shall stop.
Whoever carries this letter with him he shall not be damaged
through the enemy's guns or weapons, God will give him
strength; he may not fear robbers and murders, nor guns,
pistols, swords and muskets shall not hurt him through the
command of the Angel Michael, in the name of the Father,
Son and the Holy Ghost, God with me. Whoever carries
this letter with him he shall be protected from all danger and
he who does not believe in it may copy it and tie it to the
neck of a dog and shoot at him and he will see that it is
true. Whoever has this letter shall not be taken prisoner,
nor wounded by the enemy. Amen. As true as it is that
Jesus Christ died and ascended to Heaven and suffered on
earth he shall not be shot, but shall stand unhurt, and adjure
all guns and weapons on earth by the living God, the Father,
the Son and the Holy Ghost, I pray in the name of Christ's
blood that no ball shall hit me, be it gold or silver, but that
God in Heaven may deliver me of all sins in the name of
the Father, the Son and Holy Ghost. This letter fell from
Heaven and was found in Holstine in 1724. It was written
in golden letters and moved over the baptism of Madaginery,
and when they tried to seize it, it disappeared until 1791,
that everybody may copy and communicate it to the world.
There was further written in it whosoever works on Sunday
he shall be condemned. You shall not work on Sunday but
go to church and give the poor of your wealth; for you shall
listen to the word of God. If you do not I will punish you
with hard times, epidemics and war. I command you that
you shall not work too late on Saturday. Be you rich or poor
you shall pray for your sins that they may be forgiven. Do
not swear by His name. Do not desire gold or silver. Do not
fear the intrigues of men; sure as fast as I create you so fast
I can crush you. Also, be not false with your tongue; respect
father and mother; do not bear false testimony against your
neighbors, and I will give you health and peace. But he who
does not do so, or does not believe in this, shall be left by me
and shall not have happiness or blessing. If you do not con
vert yourself you certainly will be punished at the day of
judgement for what you cannot account for your sins.
Whoever has this letter in his house lightning shall not strike
it. All women who carry this with them shall bring forth
living fruit. Keep my commandments which I sent to you
through my angel. In the name of Jesus. Amen.
CHAPTER XIII.
An Account of Pow-Wowing by a Correspondent.
The Lancaster News and Intelligencer-Journal, for Sun
day, December 23, 1928, contains an interesting account on
Pow-Wowing, by our friend Mr. H. K. Landis, who, with
his brother George D. Landis, are proprietors of one of the
best equipped and largest private museums, in any rural sec
tion of the country. These men are students of history, and
folk-lore, the former especially being an authority on biblio
graphy, maps, old glass, iron (hand-wrought), old farming
implements, tools, milling equipment, household effects of all
kinds, etc.
Mr. Landis, when interviewed by the newspaper reporter,
gave quite an interesting account from his general know
ledge of the custom. Research in his extremely interesting,
and valuable library on Americana, Ethnology and Folk-Lore,
would bring out much additional matter, we have no doubt.
The reporter for the Lancaster paper says:
Deadly feuds among highjackers are so frequent as to be
classed among the common occurences, but the recent fatal
conflict of pow-wow practitioners stirred up so much in
terest that the state authorities themselves propose to in
vestigate. It is surprising that the practice of so-called
sorcery should be backed by such general credulity. Even
those who cry out most loudly their disbelief are among the
foremost to exclaim: "Don't you dast put a spell on me!"
One seldom thinks of these things until something happens
and then follows surprise at such a possibility. So, when
we dropped into the shop of the Landis Valley Museum,
north of Lancaster, we accosted the bookish brother with:
"What do you know about pow-wowing; is there such a
thing?"
"No doubt about it," he replied. "All through historic
time the practice of magic and sorcery was strongly evident.
Many were the ways in which it was manifested, and the
[ 70 ]
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 71
pow-wow practices are but a mild survival. Its origin is
about two-thirds German, but England also retains many
of these credulities. The later American additions are ri
diculous and nonsensical in comparison with the "remedies"
which preceded. In the minds of the people, the belief in
signs, talismans, old saws, sayings formed on Scriptural quo
tations, "haus segen," "himmelsbriefe," books like the "Lang
Verborgene Freund," —all these are believed in (sometimes
half-heartedly with the reservation, "Well, it can do no
harm") and put in practice. There are very many of these
sayings. Fogel collected over two thousand of them. How
ever ridiculous and irrational, they are readily accepted when
introduced with: "They say." When one meets a fact one
does not say "pooh-pooh," and it is a fact that a large per
centage of our people are not antagonistic to the supersti
tions handed down from their parents and forefathers, nor are
they entirely disbelievers. Of course, there is nothing in these
mystical rites, outside of the purely psychological effect of
faith, although that is a factor to be reckoned with, but they
are an interesting study in social customs."
"My grandmother had a cow which had lain for days un
able to rise. She informed a visiting lady about it and was
told "She is bewitched —let me see her." Entering the stable
she repeated "Yah, Sie ist verhext." Making some signs in
the air, on the stable door jamb, and mumbling some words,
she left. The next day the cow was at the trough as usual.
My grandmother shook her head and said that now she did
not know what to think. A book could be filled with such
narratives, told in all sincerity. Of course, there is a natural
explanation, but when the story teller wants to think it
was supernatural, there is no changing his mind. So, these
stories persist.
"There are many groups of these superstitions and say
ings, the most important of which are remedies for ailments
for man and beast, omens and luck, children, planting and
crops, weather and zodiac signs, dreams, etc. Probably the
more harmful are those where charms and soothsaying re
places the physician. For example, to cure convulsions in a
child, place under its pillow a worn horseshoe having all the
nails in it; or, cover the child with its father's wedding coat;
if it eats the first hailstone seen after its birth, it will have
no convulsions; to cure them, salt put into the hands and on
ions tied to the feet of the sufferer also are advised. No won
der so many children died!
"Whooping cough" is another serious disorder. Wear the
72 The 'Tow-Wow" Book.
rattles of a rattle-snake to cure it, they say. Baptismal water
is beneficial; also a drink of stolen milk; wearing a piece of
stolen blue ribbon helps; for the patient to kiss a negro child
is a remedy. One is advised to cut up and feed to the child
the cast off skin of a snake; or, we can put a spider in a
bag to be hung about the child's neck; putting a trout's
mouth into that of the child, is directed by several. When
the nose bleeds, let three drops fall upon a stone picked up and
replace it as found, when the bleeding ceases. Picking up a
stone, spitting upon it, and replacing as found has much
merit; it prevents cramp while swimming, stops stitches in
the side, etc.
"To cure a child from "obnema" or "the waste," feed it
with a stolen spoon. To avoid having a headache, put on
your right stocking first. Erysipelas, or wild fire, is often
treated by pow-wowing; or, sparks from steel striking flint
are made to fall upon the affected places. To ward off con
vulsions and sickness from children, dig up burdock roots
of first year growth, cut into three pieces, thread them and
wear as a necklace; again, for convulsions, wear a necklace
of beads turned from the root of the peony. These are but
a few of the sayings and curious practices as used by people
themselves.
"The pow-wow or practitioner goes a step further some
times, by posing as exercising supernatural powers, colored
here and there by magic, sorcery, personality, testimonials and
the force of cumulative belief throughout his community.
The "hexa-buch" to which he appears to refer is closely
guarded as of great secrecy and value, which it is not, as these
books are published in frequent and large editions available
to any one. Hohman's "Long Lost Friend" can be bought
in almost any large book store at one dollar per copy. The
field covered in this practice includes the laying of spells,
witching, removing spells, and quite the most frequently,
the accepting of liberal fees. No education is required, no
diploma or certificate is obtained; the doctor may be male
or female, black or white, yet deluded souls flock to them
for advice, comfort, cures or perhaps vengeance. A veil of
secrecy surrounds these seances. The wonder is not that they
exist, but rather that they are under neither restriction nor
inspection. Maybe even the officials of the state are nervous
over an invisible hand stretching out toward them out of
the darkness. But, let us drop that for the present as I want
to talk to you about the framed benedictions on the walls
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 73
of the credulous. Here is one, decorated with birds, angels
and fruit and containing several verses, with this heading:
HAUS-SEGEN
In den drey allerhochsten Namen,
Vater, Sohn and Heil'ger Geist,
Dies das chor der Engel priesst
Gesundheit, Ru' und Segen, amen.
It blesses the home and land, the crops, cattle and protects
against fire and accident, hail and lightning, frost and hopes
that the family live happily and prosper.
Another example is entirely pen work, illuminated and
well preserved, written in German script, the last line stating
that it belonged to 'William Schumacher, a distiller; it is dated
1826, and begins thus:
Jesu, wohn in meinem Haus
Weiche nimmermehr daraus
He asks the Lord to remain in his home and never again
leave it or he would be desolate and continues: Oh you great
giver of blessings, come and bestow upon us joy, fortune
and health; just as Job and Abraham received rich blessings
so do with me. And so on to the signature.
Again, we find on the walls, framed and colored, illustra
tions, representations of the Lord's Prayer; mottoes such as
"God Bless Our Home;" the baptismal covenant with illus
trations; Adam and Eve in wood cut illustrations with the
story of the fall in verse. Occasionally one sees a gilded
horse shoe; in the Bible will be found a dried four-leafed
clover, pressed flowers, or a lock of hair; men carry "lucky"
pocket pieces, children wear amulets and the women know
all the signs. Many other curious things are found in the
museum.
CHAPTER XIV.
A Few Illustrative Accounts.
We have taken just a few moments to write several ac
counts under different "headings" — all of which are more
or less related to the subject — pow-wowing, or natural
phenomena— or coincidence. Many others might be brought
together, as might testimonials by persons who would per
sonally claim to have received benefits direct from pow-
powing. Just how these benefits were brought about, would,
most generally, be attributed to a natural sequence.
Psychology, healing naturally in course of time, faith, etc.,
all enter into and come under one main head which would
vary to suit the tastes of the critic.
The following are a few of various types which we might
classify under "magic," or "witchcraft" or superstition.
A MIRACLE.
The item to which we shall make reference, appeared in
the Lancaster New Era, January 8, 1929. We haven't read
that issue of the paper, but the story was sent to us and the
sum and substance of it is this: "Says Hex Book Saved His
Life." The first son of a seventh daughter carried the Long
Lost Friend and the Psalms in the pocket of his automobile.
While out on the road it appears that the driver, Warren H.
Weber, 22, met with an accident; his machine having been
struck by a locomotive. Weber said later: "When the train
struck us I immediately thought of my books, and then felt
safe." How badly used the machine was, we do not know,
but the newspaper seems to indicate that Weber lived, and
that his confidence was in his books. Was this a modern-day
miracle?
an amulet.
This story is probably every bit as credible as any other
of its kind circulated during the past generation, when per
sons carried amulets to protect them from bullets, drowning,
bodily injury, and the like. Since the greatly increased use
[ 74 ]
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 75
of the automobile it has been called to the author's attention
that men and women belonging to a well-known Church,
have been encouraged to believe that the attaching of "stick
ers" and printed cards of a certain specified kind, in their
automobiles at all times, protects said automobile from the
probabilities of accident! We don't refer to any insurance
policy, either. We have seen countless instances of persons
carrying these amulets, or letters of protection, on their
persons, in card cases, or charms about their necks attached
to chains or cords, but the use of a "new series" of charms
for one's automobile is new to the most of us, doubtless.
It requires a great deal of "faith" these days, in amulets,
and everything else, to ward off accidents and troubles to
our automobiles.
Some persons are addicted to the habit of smoking a certain
brand of cigarets, because the wrapper on such packages has
a kind of type for advertising the "brand" that has a cross
(t), or what appears to be such, wherever the letter "t"
ought to occur. Are smokers of this brand superstitious?
INCONSISTENCY.
There are any number of persons who have a dread and
fear of used, or shall we say second-hand, books. Second
hand books are those which are usually obtained by a book
dealer from persons who have purchased them new, and who
are about to move, or clean house; or from the estates of
persons who have passed away. These books, figuratively,
have been in but one family since purchased new. Then they
come to the dealer. So many people wouldn't buy a second
hand book because of their belief that such books contain
"germs!" Yet it may be said that times without number,
these same people will go to their public, or lending librar
ies, and borrow books that have been in dozens and dozens
of hands, out in all kinds of weather, and places; time and
again in the hands of those who were sick, and with illnesses
that might shock the modest person. These same persons who
are afraid of book germs, handle Uncle Sam's money, (be
cause that is the only worth-while coin in this country),
and if anything can, and does carry more "germs" than the
common medium of exchange, it certainly must be something
unusually filthy! This is a typical picture of persons who
fear, or dread, or are suspicious as well as superstitious in
common affairs of the day. They are inconsistent.
76 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
A STRANGE CURE.
Here's a barber shop story, told by a man whose salary
runs about a thousand a month, and who ought to know what
he's talking about, if no one else does. The story is laid in
Pottstown. A mill official there claims that his wife has tried
all the leading, and other physicians in that city, for relief
from what appeared to be a blistered condition to her feet
and lower limbs, which these physicians claimed came from
diabetic troubles, and that they had been doing all they could
for her relief, but that they doubted whether she could ever
be cured. Undaunted, the husband, hearing of a pow-wow
doctor living in the vicinity of Boyertown, traveled thence
with his wife in search of the "faith healer." The latter
was found, and—the point we wish to make plain to the
reader is: The woman has entirely recovered, and is ap
parently as well as ever! Was this a Strange Cure?
A SHAMEFUL IMPOSITION!
This instance, we understand, has been investigated by of
ficials of the State of Pennsylvania, although we do not have
it direct. We doubt whether it could be obtained direct,
on account of the officials feeling that they were giving
something away. They did, unconsciously, it is said; and
here it is: A certain man in Steel ton, which adjoins the city
of Harrisburg, went to a so-called pow-wow doctor in his
home town. He went there feeling very much dejected, and
run down. The "pow-wow" man's advice was sought. This
is what he was told to do, according to accounts available:
He was to have nightly with his wife, week after
week, until the "pow-wow doctor" should order otherwise,
under penalty of certain conditions made at the time. But
nature stepped in, and the wife complained of her inhuman
treatment to a justice of the peace, who ruled that he had
no jurisdiction in the matter, but that she should complain
to the State Department, which we understand she did, and
thus the story gained credence. The health of both the man
and woman, was about ruined, which caused the latter to seek
some form of relief. For a "pow-wow doctor" to suggest
any such "cure" is most reprehensible, to say the least. And
his fee was $5.00, or more. What a Shameful, Disgraceful
Imposition!
The 'Tow-Wow" Book. 77
A COINCIDENCE.
Some years ago a young man was engaged in doing some
bark peeling, in the woods near a village in Snyder county.
He was busy on a particularly nice piece of timber, and was
doing remarkably well with it, when his attention was at
tracted to a hole which had been bored into the tree, not
far from the butt. In this hole, about an inch in diameter,
he found a lock of black hair, apparently belonging at one
time to a human being. This startled him, and calling to
an older man nearby, asked him what he could make out of
the situation. He replied that it was nothing out of the
ordinary. That some time before that, a young lad in the
village had been for a number of years a sufferer of falling-
fits. Medical aid had been sought, and all recommendations
tried, but nothing seemed to give the youngster the desired
relief. One day an old woman came to the house on a visit,
and while there, the youngster had one of his fits. She in
quired whether the parents had tried to stop the affliction,
and they said they had, but nothing seemed to help. Where
upon she offered, if they didn't care, to pow-wow, assuring
them that it would stop then. The parents were loath to sub
mit, but eventually they agreed, and the placing of the hair
in this particular tree was a part of the plan for relief. Re
lief,—rather cure, —for from the day the woman called there
has never been a repetition of the fits. The young man grew
into manhood, and has for years been a successful principal
in the schools of a prominent Pennsylvania city. Was it a
coincidence that the fits should cease with the placing of the
hair in the tree, and the saying of a few words? Figure it
out for yourself.
1
L
CHAPTER XV.
A Pointed Word to Those Who Scoff — Read It!
In summarizing, let it be said and understood, that the
theories and accounts advanced in this treatise, have been
obtained from most reliable and trust-worthy sources; from
personal contacts and observations in a life-time residence
with the people about whom we have essayed to speak. That
superstition and belief in witchcraft, etc., should exist in
this day and age, to some persons may seem incredible. Of
course, what has been said about the subject proves beyond
the shadow of a doubt that it is present more or less in
force and practice. Just how serious it may be, or seem to
be, may be based almost entirely on the doubter's, or believer's
point of view. If, and when, a conspired attempt, on the
part of several persons, under the term of magic, witchcraft,
or any other similar name, to subvert or subject the will of
another, or others, to do certain biddings, or to believe in
certain forecasts or prophecies, spells and the like, is present
in force, a serious menace to social life might be said to exist.
Until then there should be little cause for alarm, for we are
slowly recovering from the effects of a condition that had
its inception ages and ages ago, and which will heal of itself,
if left alone. The isolated case, of a mentally deranged man
accidentally killing another whose mental condition is also
said to have been
"
queer," should not upset the equilibrium
of a State and Nation as rational and sensible as ours is said
to be. Shame!
The State cannot drive out superstition, as one would
blow out a match! Yet we have any number of persons,
wise and otherwise, who think they are smart enough to do
so. "Let him who is without sin, cast the first stone." In
this matter of superstition, the person who seeks to drive
it out by force, is but "one mule calling another mule, a
t 78 ]
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 79
mule." When you attempt to drive out superstition, you
run great chances of closing, or seriously implicating all your
places of religious worship! The intelligent person knows
this; so for the sake of those who are good church members
now, the less said of it the better. Remember a saying of
years ago: "You can drive a horse to water, but you can't
make him drink."
We are reminded of the simple little ditty concerning
"Little Bo Peep." If these superstitious people are at all
worth-while "salvaging", let us place as much confidence
in them as did "Little Bo Peep." They are as precious and
worth-while to the rest of mankind, as the sheep was to Bo
Peep.
Let them alone, and they'll come home,
Dragging their tails behind them.
Let any man, be he Protestant, Catholic, Jew or Moham
medan, or what ever, conscientiously say that there are no
"hidden meanings," no so-called "miracles," no "mystical
rites," no superstitions, if you please, in their church-life
somewhere, if not plentiously.
What church or sect does not foist some form or other,
of it upon its believers? What church or sect is therefore not
greatly benefitted by the imposition that they practice on
their members, and which the members seem to have the
greatest soul-delight in?
Why pick on the so-called ignorant Pennsylvania-Ger
mans, or whoever it may be, when millions and millions dip
their hands in "holy water," and make the sign of the cross
dozens of times daily — why? — to purify and sanctify
themselves; and to ward off evil, because they are super
stitious.
Even the intelligent man or woman who does not believe
in, or unconsciously practice some form of religious expres
sion, or superstition under any other name, has yet to be
born!
For the want of knowledge as to the meaning of certain
acts one does in the course of a day, or a year, we often give
it a name; however unrelated the name may be to the act.
80 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
Thus pow-wowing, casting of spells, prophecies, divination,
mental telepathy, fortune-telling, crystal-gazing, and pure
guess-work, are among many which are indiscriminately
gathered under the terms of witchcraft, black magic, or
pow-wowing.
One authority says
" The Hebrew word mekaseepah liter
ally means one who makes spells, amulets, poisons, and in
cantations, and corresponds to the Latin venefica. It is pro
bable therefore that the name
" witch
" mentioned in the
Bible had a different meaning to that applied to it in later
times." In this connection it might be interesting to the
reader to learn what Sir Walter Scott has to say:
" Witches were generally old, blear-eyed, wrinkled dames,
ugly and crippled, frequently papists, and sometimes atheists;
of cross-grained tempers and cynical dispositions. They were
often poisoners and generally mono-maniacs. Epilepsy and
all diseases not understood by the physicians were set down
to the influence of witches. They were said to make two
covenants with the devil, one public and one private. Then
the novices were presented to the devil in person, and in
structed to renounce the Christian faith, tread on the Cross,
break the fasts, joining hands with Satan, paying him homage
and yielding him body and soul. Some witches sold them
selves for a term of years, and some for ever; then they
kissed the devil, and signed their bond with blood, and a
banquet ended the meeting, their dances being accompanied
with shouts of
'
Ha, ha! Devil, devil! Dance here, dance
here. Play here, play here! Sabbath, sabbath!' Before they
departed, the devil was said to give them philtres and amu
lets."
The ever increasing number of words in the English lan
guage, and the inability on the part of more than a small
percentage of people to know all, or just a small number of
these words, and what word to use at the right time, has
caused much of the annoyance and mistaken ideas present
today. One word may mean many different things; likewise
one thing may have many different words. So the average
person is taxed to more than he can bear, or acquire, and
The "Pow-Vow" Book. 81
consequently is compelled to use the English, not as
" she
should be wrote or spoken," but as
" she is convenient to the
masses."
In this wiy the art of healing, which is no more mystify
ing than prayer! has been looked upon by various people as
being nefarious, or sinful, and with its synonymous term
of
"
pow-wow," (which really is in the vernacular), it has
been brought under the very distasteful term of witchcraft,
and black art, and magic.
If as much sin and spell-casting is being done today in
the name of the devil as is generally attributed to what is
called "voodooism," and the like, woe be to those who ex
pect to be recipients of a rosy after-life. Hell would be a
promising place for much of man-kind, under such beliefs
and imaginations. And since so much criticism and ridicule
has been directed toward the Pennsylvania-Germans especial
ly, who as a whole are a peaceful, industrious, law-abiding
class of citizens, we must relate a story told some years ago
about these home-loving, Christian people; whatever else may
be said about them and their superstitions.
The story is entitled
" A Pointer to People Who Ridicule
the Pennsylvania-Germans." It is attributed to ex-Senator
Evan Holben.
" A bevy of jack-a-dandies with fuzzy-wuzzy
faces and summer girls with their dresses cut off above, so
journed a few days where the inhabitants were all very high
ly proficient in the Pennsylvania-German tongue. They liked
the cooking, they relished the victuals, they enjoyed the in
vigorating atmosphere. In fact, they could stomach all ex
cept the language, which they hated.
'
Too much Dutch
here, there and everywhere,' was the common voice. Finally
they packed up and went to the depot, where they heard
some more Dutch; '
too much Dutch,' heard from every
one. After they had been snugly seated in the car, two men
with dinner pails came in talking Pennsylvania-German.
'
Too much Dutch,' was the chorus of the coterie. One of
the men said:
'
My young friends, when you go away from
home again, you GO TO HELL, WHERE YOU WON'T
HEAR ANY DUTCH.'"
82 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
We are told that a person whose hearing is normal can
hear the noise caused by a nearby explosion, but that of the
explosion itself there is no noise — except that which is reg
istered on that little sounding board in the individual's ear.
This you see requires presence of man with his normal hear
ing faculty to produce a circuit, or to make the sound an
actual fact, or reality.
In the matter of superstition, a rule may be applied that
will fit any person — "as a man thinketh in his heart [and
mind] so is he;" either good, bad, or indifferent. Witchcraft
and superstition may be wide-spread, but its influences we
believe to be negligible because of the mildness of their pos
sible application. That witchcraft and spell-casting is very
efficacious, we doubt, for the reason that with even as much
general ignorance as is prevalent, not enough minds are so
utterly blank or shallow as to fall willing slaves to the evil
designs and works of those who would seek to work such
charms.
Even though strange beliefs may extend over a great part
of Pennsylvania, their importance to every day life and af
fairs is negligible and practically unfelt, since it appears that
many years have elapsed since any
" serious
"
cases have come
to the attention of any of the courts in the Commonwealth.
CHAPTER XVI.
Overcoming Superstition — Conclusion.
How can we overcome superstition and disbelief in "far
away" things which have no being, when every child, from
the moment of its birth is rocked to sleep with
Rock-a-bye Baby, in the tree top, etc.?
When children can first understand, and comprehend their
parent tongue, what are they told? They are told about the
fairies, the goblins, Santa Claus, the Easter "bunny" that
lays eggs (a German invention now in practice in many
countries), the "boog-a-boo" man, etc. Children are told
all these things, and more. Your book shelves are testimony
as to that fact.
Now are there actually fairies, goblins, and the like? If
not, then all superstition should be driven from the human
race, in course of time. But if there are no fairies, no gob
lins, no "Little Red Riding-Hood," no "Three Bears," then
no one has a moral right to teach the growing mind of a
child anything but the truth! The present home-life of peo
ples in all nations, civilized and uncivilized, is "fairy" stories
and therefore myths, or "false truths," (superstition), from
the cradle to the grave!
The men who complain the loudest and longest and cry
out against pow-wowing — superstition — or whatever it
is,
would be quite antagonistic against anyone who by law, or
otherwise, should attempt to deprive them of the right to
think as they pleased! to deprive them of the right to teach
their children as they please — be
it
ever so insignificant
a
story as the "Three Bears," all decked out in "bib and
tucker!"
If superstition
is
bad in the poor and others who practice
pow-wowing, then its bad in the rest of us, in other forms
[
83
]
84 The "Pow-Wow" Book.
of belief and practice — and we cannot elect to go where
we will, but we'll all go down to Hell together!
If the men who presume to mould "public opinion" ex
amine themselves first, and then go into the phase of how
superstition can be wiped out in their neighbor's lives, as
well as their own, they will find themselves thoroughly en
meshed in the tentacles of a "devil-fish."
The entire educational system in the beginner's life is
based on myth. Mythology has been the gospel for unnum
bered millions for ages. Change it? Try it!
The human race is not infallible, hence we have those who
profess leadership, but who lack the necessary qualifications
whereby others can follow in truth. If we are to emulate
the Christ, then we have the Christian's example of what
we ought to be like. But we cannot fully attain perfection,
and it is for each of us to examine ourselves diligently, and
correct our own wrong-doings. Be careful that in the at
tempt to bring about a new era in the history of the world
by the elimination of "witchcraft," that we do not lose
that which has already been hard to gain and retain, and
which is all-precious to us!
Remember past history; our ancestors; our parents; the
length of time it has taken to reach the state of learning
that we now have.
The writer is not at all socialistic, or revolutionary in
thought, but it might be suggested in passing, that if the
poor, and ignorant (who are said to be so confoundedly su
perstitious), would be permitted to marry into the homes
and families of those who have reached the "acme of per
fection," we might be able to curb ignorance and supersti
tion somewhat. Perish that thought! Public educators, and
others, who have stirred up the witchcraft matter these
past two months; legislators who would seek by law to limit
a man as to what they want him to know, and still others,
might make the first step, or sacrifice, in offering flesh of
their flesh, and blood of their blood, to the most flagrant
cases to come to their attention; and if witchcraft and su
The "Pow-Wow" Book. 85
perstition is to be stopped we know of no better plan than
that to start with.
Other plans, like remolding our Church and School systems,
would follow in due course, as our new generation of "sanc
tified" and holy angels began to make their appearance.
In conclusion: —We trust that the reader has had a full
and satisfactory opportunity to study the subject of which
we have just touched the surface. The presence of super
stition, yes, even pow-wowing or witchcraft, in mild form,
is not denied. To make a serious attempt to drive it out
spontaneously, we fear, would cause a serious back-fire.
All in all, since the whole world is involved in its prac
tice and belief in one form or another, we doubt whether
any one would want to seriously undertake to "angelize" the
people of one State, let alone the Nation, or the World!
We already have a great deal of wisdom, and are learn
ing more from day to day. The much talked-of Heathen
Chinese have a proverb that "One learns something every
time a book is opened!" Those who are superstitious, and
who believe in witches may do so; it will be hard to change
their minds. Those who are ever so learned and wise, we
refer to the counsel of Horace, to
Mingle a little folly with thy wisdom.
AN ACCOUNT OF
THE
"Mitel)"
flRurfcer Atrial
YORK, PA.,
JANUARY 7-9, 1929.
COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA
vs.
JOHN BLYMYER, et al.
By A. Monroe Aurand, Jr.
Former Newspaperman, and Author of Various Books
Pennsylvania History, Folk-Lore and Biography.
Privately Printed by
THE AURAND PRESS
HARRISBURG, PA.
1929
Copyright 1929
0 %
/ J*. *o
A U R A N D
All Rights Reserved.
THE "WITCH" MURDER TRIAL AT YORK
"How do you find the defendant, guilty, or not guilty?"
"Guilty!"
"In what degree?"
"Guilty of murder in the first degree, with the recom
mendation of life imprisonment!"
Thus did the jury in the case of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania vs. John H. Blymyer, in York county, find the
defendant, on the charge of the murder of Nelson D. Reh-
meyer, aged 60.
"Hexed!"
"Be-witched!"
"Lock of hair."
"The Long Lost Friend."
Again and again did the above words issue from the counsel
for John H. Blymyer, and again and again did the defendant
speak those words in all the seriousness that any man could
who believed as did John Blymyer.
John Blymyer, thirty-two or three years of age, born of
the most humble sort of parents, the boy without a chance
to make good because his brain would not grow; the boy
with mental apparitions of "witches" and the like, is going
to spend the rest of his life in the penitentiary —HAPPY;
not so much because he killed a man, but because he "broke
the spell" that had been placed on him by the man he is
said to have killed, and from the moment of the killing he
has felt himself to be a better man, in that he can now
"eat, sleep and rest better," and the "witches" cannot bother
him anymore, nor can any "spell" be again placed on him!
Poor John, the child with faith—but faith in the un
seen, and unfelt things in life—in his delusions, hallucinations
and illusions.
Who killed poor Cock Robin?
"Who killed Nelson D. Rehmeyer" in a lonely farm house
set apart in a sparsely settled part of York county?
[ 3 ]
"witch" murder trial.
"I didn't kill him," said John Blymyer.
"Why did you go to Rehmeyer's house then, if not to
kill him?"
"I went there to get a lock of hair, or the book called the
Long Lost Friend."
"What did you want with the lock of hair, or the Long
Lost Friend?"
"To break a "spell" that Rehmeyer had put on me, and
Curry, and the Hess family."
"When you killed him, did that break the spell?"
"Yes."
"Do you feel better?"
"Yes. Now I can eat, and sleep, and rest better, and I
am not pining away."
And John Blymyer, who sat, a defendant on the witness'
stand, during the trial that meant liberty, or death, or at
least life imprisonment for him, yawned, time after time,
as he told his story, in a quiet, dispassionate and straight
forward manner. And at 7.40 o'clock p. m., of the third
day of the now famous trial, the defendant, John Blymyer,
heard the fateful words from the foreman of the jury, "Guil
ty of murder in the first degree, with the recommendation
of life imprisonment."
So it is that Blymyer will pay the penalty of his crime;
but does he care? Hear John a few minutes after the sen
tence had been told him: "I am happy now. I am not be
witched any more. I can sleep and eat and I am not pining
away." And after a short pause continued, "But I think
that they went a little strong. Yes, that's it—a little too
strong."
"Every event is the son of its own father," was perhaps
never more apropos than in the case of the Commonwealth
vs. John Blymyer.
Had John Blymyer been born and lived in the present
era, he would have been like almost any other rational youth
of his day and age. But John wasn't the thirty-two or
three years of age, as he is said to be. John Blymyer, the
son of Emanuel Blymyer, aged about 60, with no particular
place to call his home, was "born" ages and ages ago (figur
atively speaking). Emanuel and John Blymyer, father and
son; the mother, as well as others of the children in said
r 4 1
"witch" murder trial.
family were "born" so far back in the ages, that it is hardly
conceivable that jurisdiction could be had over either of
them, in the common recourse at law! The Blymyers are
"throw-backs" from the early ages of history, if one may
judge by appearances, and hearing.
Emanuel Blymyer, who is not sure of his age, but is high
in the fifties, or already in his sixties, still counts, and in
dicates the number of his children by raising his hand and
showing two, three or four fingers; we verily believe that
if one were to ask him a question that would involve more
than ten units, or digits, that no answer would be forth
coming, for we have doubts whether Emanuel can reckon
higher than the ten digits normal man is equipped with.
Emanuel Blymyer, on the witness stand, testified that
he lived at three places, telling where they were, and that
he made baskets in order to procure money enough to keep
body and soul together. He cannot read, nor write, and we
suspect that his witness' oath "went over his head." But
Blymyer, the father, as a witness for his son, was just as
straight-forward and honest as a man could be, and with
the son, made two of the best witnesses on the stand during
the three days' trial.
We stated that the Blymyers were "throw-backs" from the
middle or dark ages, and the reader will know then what is
meant by such statement. While they are here in the flesh
with their fellowman in 1929, their thoughts are not. Their
thoughts are far, far away. As a basket-maker, the elder
Blymyer; and as a chronic loafer, under his delusions, John,
the son, portray to us living examples of the kind of people
who inhabited the sparsely settled parts of the earth in the
times of the Middle Ages.
Emanuel Blymyer, when questioned, said: "One of my
daughters diedt; she—wass —well —anyway dere was some-
dings da matter wis da headt. And I'm dat way, too, some
times." He repeated several times that "John was sick, too,
and couldn't work, and dere wass somedings da matter wis
hiss headt," and that John was "hexed."
One swift glance at Emanuel Blymyer would satisfy the
average person as to the type and calibre of man he is. His
dress is that of the man "in rags." His speech that of the
man who speaks little, and who knows little to speak. His
hair, not all gray by any means, have probably not seen a
brush or comb for years and years, if ever. Nor can we
believe that the body, or clothes ever see cleansing. As to
[ J ]
"witch" murder, trial.
the birth of Emanuel Blymyer, belated from the Middle Ages
to about 1870, we can only hazard a guess. Picturing his
arrival into this world, one must almost suppose that from
his present appearance, he had a mighty deplorable entrance.
We can hardly imagine a regular physician in the 1870's
attending the arrival of Emanuel Blymyer, but that he did
overcome some obstacles placed in his way by nature, and
eventually take unto himself a mate, is apparent.
In the course of his life with his mate, he has become
the parent of seven children, one dying, as stated previously.
All these children have been the off-spring of a parent who
for all his life has been a back-woodsman, and who has lived
in an almost primitive state all this time; a parent who
"knew his witches," and who, instead of making the "best"
of life, seems to have made out of it the most miserable
failure.
One must wonder who is responsible for "failures" like
these. That is difficult to tell; society is quite complex, but
has a part in the progress of mankind, or lack of it. And
Emanuel Blymyer and his son John are excellent examples
of what happens when nature is allowed to take its course.
Where the generations previous to the two mentioned came
from, or what they were, we have no means of knowing,
but the intelligence comes to us that these people were never
known to be among any of the active type of woodsmen, or
farm folk. They have for generations, apparently, been of
the "backward type," and as so often is the case, inter
marriages, and cohabitings, and common law affairs with
these poorer classes, "play the devil" in our courts of justice,
and with society generally. Witness the frequent interming
ling of the same blood and mental types, and the pouring
out of mental defectives.
Where, in the history of criminal trials, has there ever
been a case where the obtaining of a "lock of hair, or a Pow
Wow book" have been such inconceivable and impossible mo
tives for murder?
Like begets like, and we see the weak John Blymyer, the
son of equally mentally and physically weak parents. For
John there is no struggle for existence in his life. His out
look, and vision of life cannot be seen through the eyes of
the average person, but must be seen through eyes repre
senting the kind of people living during the dark ages. De
ductions as to John's mental apparitions would not be men
tioned here if expert medical testimony and tests had not
[ 6 ]
"witch" murder trial.
been made at different times in John's life, proving his stup-
idness, ignorance, or incompatibility; his hallucinations. His
father, on the stand, admitted also having certain beliefs in
witches, and the like, and the son has inherited these beliefs,
with interest.
There is no effort necessary to picture John Blymyer as
an unwanted child; did you ever observe the really poor peo
ple who wanted children, and still more children? Generally
speaking, they do not want them, but they get them just
the same, and the larger the crop, the greater the difficulties
and annoyances resultant upon society as a whole. Society,
the law, the State, the nation, are responsible in no small
degree for such children of fate and nature, as we see in John
Blymyer's life. John was clothed neatly enough at the trial,
and to all ordinary appearances was like any other chap of
like age and environment in the community. To look at
him one would scarcely suppose, or even believe if told by
some other person, that John believed in "witches," and
believed so with all his heart and mind.
But John had an hereditary handicap; he was born with
foolish ideas in his head, if a child ever has ideas at birth.
Certainly John grew up like his father, and it was inevitable
fate that in going out into the world, even away from his
own folks, and acquiring ever so little knowledge from day
to day, that John should meet with difficulties. His persist
ent delusions from childhood, up into manhood, had so un
nerved him that he could scarcely work, or eat, or sleep,
or do any thing, but worry.
Time came, that John was sent to the County Home of
York county, where he was examined as to his sanity, and
upon its outcome, John was ordered committed to the State
Hospital for the Insane, at Harrisburg. In 1923, when about
twenty-six years of age, he was brought to the Hospital, at
Harrisburg, and after 48 days "residence" there, effected his
escape.
Before his confinement to the State institution, any num
ber of symptoms of a sort of mental derangement, or in
sanity, were apparent to any number of persons acquainted
with John Blymyer. John lived under the apprehension that
he was ill, and pining away; that witches were after him,
and that he was "hexed." For years, in his early childhood,
he had lived in proximity, and at times had worked for
Nelson D. Rehmeyer, reputed "witch-doctor," now deceased.
Blymyer suffered these hallucinations and delusions for days
[ 7 ]
"witch" murder trial.
and years, and seemingly nothing could be done to alleviate
the mental depression that was his as a result of his beliefs.
These ideas of John's were as persistent as they could be—
as persistent as the day follows the night.
Expert testimony brought out on the stand was to the
effect that John suffered mental beliefs for which there was
no certain, or likely cure; that John wasn't sick physically,
but that he wasn't well mentally. The experts testified that
their examinations showed that John knew some matters of
of history (beginner's), and could distinguish between some
incidents or others, but when the question of witches was
put to him by the experts, he remained firm in his attitude.
The witches were after him, and from this he would not
budge one iota. He was "hexed!" He testified that he
had visited nearly every doctor in York at some time or
other, and had sought treatments from every possible source
for the relief that he desired from the witches which were
"sapping his life away." He once took electric treatments, he
testified.
John even sought out the pow-pow doctors, and went to
possibly a dozen of them in late years, one of them being
a colored man; and several of them being women. With
these pan-handlers, (for most of them seem to have accepted
fees from John for their "treatment" of his illness,) he seems
to have found his source of satisfaction. For all of those
to whom he went for pow-wow treatments told him the
same thing. He probably told them of his condition, his
belief in and fear of witches, and asked them whether there
was anything like that the matter with him. Of course
all of them had the idea all right—they agreed with John,
and said that he was "hexed." And for this information
John paid out from $1.00 to $5.00, and sometimes $10.00,
per consultation.
If this young man had had just a small grain of common-
sense, he could have distinguished the difference in his case,
as diagnosed by the experts, and that of the pan-handlers;
but he had his own ideas of what ailed him, and the ones
who agreed with him were the ones he sought. And one
day he went to a Mrs. Emma Noll, said to live at Marietta;
a woman of some ninety years, according to reports. On
the witness stand John testified, and apparently with no hesi
tancy or mental-reservation, that Mrs. Noll told him who
it was that had him bewitched. This probably was the first
person to go so far with John's imagination, and from that
[ 8 ]
"witch" murder trial.
time his mind seems to have become more determined than
ever, that he was "hexed," and he suggested to several other
persons, involved in this same trial, that they were bewitched,
and by the same man who had him at his mercy.
In a case like this one, it seems ever so reasonable to sup
pose that John didn't know, and didn't realize fully, even
though he was thirty-two, that to take a life (if this ever
did occur to him before the crime was committed)
—was
unlawful. He believed in self-preservation as the first law
of nature (a lowly animal instinct); and his apparitions
were that Rehmeyer had him bewitched, and was thus under
mining his health, and that he was thereby slowly, but sure
ly, being brought to his death by the influences and control
of the older man, over him.
The visit to Mrs. Noll, seems to have been the first and
most important development in his years of effort to shake
off the spell. Here he was told how he could find out who
had him betwitched, and she is furthermore said to have
told him who it was. Mrs. Noll asked John to give her some
paper money, if he had any, to perform her magical feat
of discovering to John who the real witch might be. Hand
ing a dollar-bill to Mrs. Noll, the latter smoothed it out
nicely and laid it on the palm of Blymyer's left hand. He
was told to concentrate his thoughts on the object before
him, and that upon the removal of the bill, he would see the
picture of the man who had him bewitched, on the palm of
his hand! Doing this, he was greeted with the likeness of
Nelson D. Rehmeyer! This John claims to have beheld in
his hand as plain as could be, and Mrs. Noll asked him if he
knew Rehmeyer, to which he assented, and he claims that
Mrs. Noll toid him that Rehmeyer was the man.
The court was trying John Blymyer, as one of three boys,
whom the Commonwealth charged with the killing of Reh
meyer. But who killed Rehmeyer? Did Blymyer, Hess, or
Curry? Or, did "society" kill him? Or was the Common
wealth of Pennsylvania a contributor to the crime, in that
it permitted an apparently insane man to be at large? Did
Mrs. Noll, as a possible accessory before the fact have any
thing to do with the killing? Did she have any grudge
against Rehmeyer? Is she not said to have put the words
or thoughts in John's mind?
[ 9 ]
"witch" murder trial.
Did John know before he went to Mrs. Noll's who had
him "hexed." Apparently not; and it was not long after
he had heard who it was that was slowly killing him,
that Blymyer learned how it was possible to break the spell!
The same Mrs. Noll, Blymyer testified, told him that in order
to break the spell, it would be necessary to obtain a lock
of hair from Rehmeyer's head, or his copy of the Long Lost
Friend. And so John rolled over in his feeble mind, the idea
that Rehmeyer had him "hexed," and that to obtain relief
and freedom of the spell, he would obtain a lock of hair, and
the Long Lost Friend.
One should not lose sight of the fact that Blymyer, when
a patient at the State Hospital for the Insane, was considered
a lunatic. After his escape from the institution, he went
back to York county, and more or less during the year fol
lowing escape, the Hospital authorities made efforts to lo
cate him, but without avail. When he reached home, he
quarreled with his wife, with whom he had three children,
and who subsequently divorced Blymyer. But as a result
of the attempted killing of his wife, by shooting, he was
arrested on some minor charge, and sentenced to the York
county jail for a time. Here he was said to have exhibited all
the symptoms of a man mentally deranged, or mentally de
ficient. The State Hospital authorities did not know that he
was imprisoned while they were making their search, and
under a State law, one who escapes from an institution for
the insane, and has managed to avoid arrest for a period
of a year, is accounted for on the records of the hospital, as
being "discharged" —but not cured! John, therefore, may
be presumed to have been just as much deranged mentally
four or five years after having effected his escape, and at
the time the crime was committed, as at any time previous,
or even more so under the nervous tension of gaining his
"spell breakers;" but the law is the law, and evidence must
be produced that is bona fide, and substantial, to prove a
contention. And here John's case was weak — the chain
lacked several important links, and gaps in his past that
might have proved of value to him in showing him to have
been insane from birth to now, unfortunately were missing.
But we must return to the motive or incidents in John's life,
from the time Mrs. Noll is said to have put certain ideas
into his head, up to the time of the crime.
It appears from the evidence that John saw other pow
wow doctors after seeing Mrs. Noll, but that no one else,
[ 10 ]
"witch" murder trial.
at any time, ever told him that Rehmeyer had him "hexed."
though they did say that he was bewitched. How to break
the spell, came solely from Mrs. Noll, and to break that
spell, to sustain, and regain lost health, and probably avoid
death, was uppermost in John's thoughts.
By the mere habit of living John had become able to
make a sort of livelihood as a cigar maker. There was noth
ing apparently the matter with John's health, he functioned
normally in every way, it seems, except mentally. In the
course of his employment not long before the murder of
Rehmeyer, Blymyer met John Curry, a 14-year-old lad,
who looks to be 19, and who had missed school in York, and
joined a branch of the army on the strength of his apparent
age. John Curry, whose father died when John was a lad
of but 5 years or so, is another of those unfortunate poor,
who
"
just grew up." Children like this cannot truly be
said to have had the same chance as those whose parents
are living, and who are better off. The deplorable fact about
such instances as this
is,
that the State or community, so
seldom takes
a
personal, or what would be something similar
to
a
"fatherly interest," in such orphaned tots. Any one
who
is
willing to let his thoughts drift back to about the
year 1914, when nearly the whole world was set on fire
by war, can see the vast strides that have been made in all
walks of life in these last 15 years. Hand in hand with pro
gress, went poverty, and temptation of every sort. What
John Curry's home life was like,
is
unknown to the writer,
but
it
is
sufficient for the point we have in mind, to say that
any child, deprived of its male parent, from 1914 up to
this time, had as hard
a
time walking the straight and nar
row path, as any child in the history of the world has ever
had. This world
is
pleasure mad; money mad; lustful and
greedy. John Curry was born into this atmosphere, and with
a
drunkard for
a
step-father, and always neglected,
it
would
not surprise us to learn that his mind, too, was of the vision
ary and impressionistic type.
Blymyer and Curry met and formed
a
friendship, under
a
mutual belief that something was the matter with each other,
and that they both knew that they were bewitched. Curry
did not know who had bewitched him, until Blymyer told
him. This was said to have been Rehmeyer, who
is
described
by his widow, as being an "old devilish witch." These two,
young man, and boy, later on met the family of Milton G.
Hess, and here Blymyer again attributed illness in the Hess
[
11
]
"witch" murder trial.
family and trouble on their farm, to the "witch" spell
that Nelson Rehmeyer had placed on that family, same as
Rehmeyer had placed on Curry and himself. Enter Wilbert
G. Hess, 18 years old, into the case, who met Blymyer for
the first time in his life, on Sunday, November 25, 1928,
just two days before the crime was committed.
Of a somewhat better-looking class and type of citizens,
(but believers in witchcraft, etc., just the same), the Hess
family, probably entirely innocent of the character of Bly
myer, were entangled in less than no time in the horrible
affair that has caused them untold sorrow, and nation-wide,
if not world-wide publicity, in newspapers, magazines, books
and "gossip."
Here we have the mention of three persons who claim to
have had certain ailments or complaints, and each of them
was led to think, and actually believed that they were suf
fering as a result of spells that had been put on them. To
shake off these spells hovering over all of them, Blymyer
proposed at the home of the Hess family, in York township,
York county, on Sunday, November 25, that arrangements
be made to go to Rehmeyer's, in the Hess automobile, to
obtain the lock of hair, or the book, the Long Lost Friend.
Accordingly, on Monday evening, November 26, Clayton
G. Hess, who is a foreman in the lumber yard of Hess
Brothers, at Gramley, left his work in his automobile, going
to the wire cloth factory, where he met his wife. With
her he went to East Princess street, near the city market,
and there they picked up Blymyer, alias John Albright, and
Curry, alias John Russell. From there they drove down the
Susquehanna trail in the Hess automobile to Hametown, and
turned left on a road near the church. They traveled this
road about two and a half miles, to a woods. There Hess
left Blymyer and Curry and returned to York.
Clayton Hess on the witness stand declared that Blymyer
had explained that he "has to go down and get some of the
man's hair, because Rehmeyer had a spell over my father
and mother. Blymyer said he has to be there until Friday
or Saturday, and when he gets the hair he would see my
father and mother in market (at York). He said he must
get the hair and dig a hole 6 or 8 feet deep and bury it."
It appears from the testimony, that Blymyer and Curry
were the welcome guests of Rehmeyer on the night in ques
tion, being Monday. Tuesday was the "big night," and of
that we shall write later.
[ 12 ]
"witch" murder trial.
It is proper, at this time, to point out that Curry and
Blymyer had intended to procure the lock of hair, or the
book, themselves, and prepared for that purpose with a rea
sonably stout piece of cotton rope for some purpose or an
other, not fully explained, but presumably to tie Rehmeyer
while they "snipped" the lock of hair. Frank Lahr, a clerk
in Swartz's store, at South George street and College avenue,
pointed out Blymyer, as the man who came into the store
with another (Curry), and bought 25 feet of cotton rope.
Three pieces of rope, taken from the charred body of Reh
meyer, were presented as evidence in court, and upon ex
amination with a piece which came from the same spool
as purchased from by Blymyer and Curry, were found to
tally.
One of the first witnesses to testify was Mrs. Alice Reh
meyer, widow of the deceased Nelson Rehmeyer. She tes
tified that he was 60 years and one month of age, on the
night he met his death. While there was no animosity be
tween the widow and the deceased, the two lived on their
separate farms, a mile or so apart, and visited each other
occasionally. On the night of the murder Mrs. Rehmeyer
states, that Blymyer, whom she knew since he was a child,
and who was raised in her neighborhood, and another com
panion, by the name of John (Curry) , came to her place
at 7.45 in the evening. They asked whether Rehmeyer was
there, to which she replied that he was not, so after
a visit of a half hour or thereabouts, the young men started
across fields to the Nelson Rehmeyer home. This night, be
ing Monday, was spent at Rehmeyer's, as a guest of the old
man, whom the widow just a short while before is said to
have called "an old devilish witch," that she hoped wouldn't
come over to see her anymore.
Tuesday evening, Blymyer and Curry again called at the
Hess home, and asked that they be again taken to the Reh
meyer home, and that if possible some one else of the Hess
family, should go along, because the old man was pretty
strong and they needed more help to get the lock of hair.
Accordingly Clayton Hess took them, and his brother Wil-
bert, aged 18, to the same place as on the night before, this
place being the woods, from where the trio walked to the
lonely cabin in the dark of the evening.
The records of the trial show that the three boys above-
mentioned, went to the home of the witch doctor for the
express purpose of procuring a lock of hair, or a book;
[ 13 ]
"witch" murder trial.
their preparations seem to have been slight; all that they are
said to have had was 25 feet of cotton rope. No concealed
deadly weapons, or the like, figure in the case, previous
to the commission of the crime.
Various experts were called to testify as to the insanity
of Blymyer, who was tried separately, as was each of the
other defendants. County and city officials, too, were wit
nesses for the Commonwealth, and the defense relied almost
entirely on the fact that "insanity" would save Blymyer
from a first-degree verdict. The trial appeared serious enough
throughout, and few occasions were observed for more than
a little smile, as certain facts developed. However, one in
stance was enjoyed by all present who heard it, and it
but goes to show the type of persons being tried.
On the stand was Oscar Altland, superintendent of the
County Home of York county, where Blymyer had at one
time been an inmate, and from which place he was sent, in
1923, to the Asylum at Harrisburg. Testifying, as one of
those who had seen Blymyer, and observed his actions, for
from one to two years before the commission of the crime,
Mr. Altland said that Blymyer had called at the County
Home in 1927. He then asked for medical assistance, and
was advised by Altland to see a doctor. Blymyer told him
that he was taking medicine at the time.
"What is it?" asked Altland.
"Lydia Pinkham's," said Blymyer, who was thereupon ad
vised to go to work. But Blymyer said he "couldn't work,
because the witches were after him." This occasioned the
only really humorous incident of the trial.
Much of the time of the trial was consumed in making
"offers" to prove by this witness or that witness, certain
peculiarities which could be deduced to indicate the defendant
insane. The court ruled time and time again that no testi
mony by lay witnesses would be admitted, as to the con
dition of John Blymyer's mind three or four years, or even
two years before the crime was committed. The court held
that under the law, the State and the law demanded to
know the condition, or state of mind of the defendant at,
or about, the time of the commission of the crime.
The body of Rehmeyer was found about noon of Thanks
giving Day, the discovery being made by David Vanover, a
neighbor. The stock on the farm had not been tended, as
usual, and their lowing, had caused Vanover to call at the
[ 14 ]
"witch" murder trial.
farm to inquire if anything was wrong. He described to
the court and jury, his observation of the dead man, as he
was discovered lying on the floor. Dr. William C. Langston,
York, described the condition of the body as he found it
when called by Deputy Coroner Dr. W. H. Schellhamer.
He said that Rehmeyer was lying on the floor face down
ward, his feet bent upright from the knees at an angle of
about 90 degrees. The feet were tied at the ankles. At
the side of the body were found an oil lamp, with the burner
off, a flash-light, a snap off a halter rope, and pieces of broken
chair. Parts of clothing and substances like straw or ex
celsior, all burned, were on top of the body. The body was
severely burned on the back, thighs and legs. There were
cuts and bruises on the head, one of which was a compound
fracture of the skull, and which, in his opinion, might have
caused the death of Rehmeyer.
Dr. L. U. Zech, county coroner, gave similar testimony,
and identified pieces of burned clothing, etc. John Wagner,
undertaker, Shrewsbury, also identified articles taken from
the body.
Detectives testified against the defendant, and all in all,
the case of the Commonwealth vs. John Blymyer, looked bad
for John. The defendant's witnesses were either disqualified,
or were not able to appear, and his counsel, Herbert B. Cohen,
appointed by the county for the defense, was finally com
pelled to put the defendant on the stand as a witness in his
own behalf.
We don't believe that a witness, and especially a defendant
in a murder trial, ever sat on a witness stand with such calm
ness and indifference in manner as did John Blymyer. He
positively yawned from time to time, as his counsel ques
tioned him, and as the district attorney, Amos W. Herrmann,
cross-examined him. The import of it all made no more
impression on him than it did on the clock on the opposite
end of the room, and which was all that one could hear be
sides John's low voice, and that of his counsel. The spectators
were afraid at first that John might talk too much. Per
haps he did, but while he spoke, unhesitatingly telling of his
part in the affairs, no sign of emotion, no moistening of his
lips, no squirming about in the chair, no twitching, showed
on John Blymyer. No personal interest in the affair what
ever; so far as John was concerned, the snap of a finger
might be said to be his interest in the whole affair. Could
any sane and sound man sit there between court and jury,
[ IS ]
"witch" murder trial.
in the seat of the person to be judged, and show so little
concern? No; only one whose shallow mind does not grasp
all important things, would show so little concern. John
was either insane—or the calmest actor to ever face death!
A personal interview with one of the experts who figured
in the trial brings out another important phase. This pro
fessional man interviewed Blymyer before the trial, and dur
ing the course of their conversation John stated that the
object of the visit to the Rehmeyer home was solely to se
cure the hair or the book. On further questioning, he de
nied having planned extreme measures in order to secure
the objects of their visit. John denied that they had ever
entertained any thoughts of killing the older man. But he
was stout, and muscular, and the boys would be mere puppets
in the event of there being trouble to get what they wanted.
This plan was "robbery" —of an unusual sort; not one for
gain for themselves, or others; but one that was absolutely
necessary to break a spell—to save a life! Do other robbers
and thieves stoop to a level of securing such as an unkempt
lock of hair, or a second-hand and much used pow-wow
book with no potential value? Does the reader not see that
this kind of robbery is in a class by itself? The upshot of
the whole being that in endeavoring to procure what they
wanted, these boys, by mere accident, due to overzealousness,
got the old man too much upset and thus started a "free-for-
all." Rehmeyer met his death accidentally it is believed, for
Blymyer made a remark to a confidant before the trial
to that effect. John was surprised during the general en
counter and at one stage of it cried out: "My God, he's dead."
This remark makes one feel sure that such an end was not
premeditated —but that having started the action, it be
came a case of Rehmeyer vs. the three.
The old man probably did not fully comprehend or un
derstand that they merely wanted a lock of hair, or his
book, and defended himself, as he would against common
thugs, with the result that is now known to the world.
Let us put John on the stand and hear his testimony:
"John, how old are you?"
John replied promptly, but in a low tone of voice.
"Thirty-three."
"You'll have to talk louder, John," said his attorney.
[ H ]
"witch" murder trial.
"Thirty- three."
"No, the jury can't hear you."
"Thirty-three."
"How many brothers and sisters have you?"
Blymyer counted over his fingers, replying directly:
"Four sisters and two brothers."
"All living?"
"All except one."
"Know what she died of?" John moved his hands, bring
ing one of them across the forehead.
"Sick in the head," he replied.
"For the past ten years, how have you been feeling?"
"I couldn't rest or sleep; I couldn't talk."
John's fingers seemed to be a part of his manner in direct
ing his speech, and he had them moving quite freely during
the time he was on the stand. When he spoke of being un
able to talk, his fingers moved up to his mouth.
"What caused you to feel that way, John?"
"I was bewitched."
This question was felt by the defense counsel to be the
big point in the case. John replied in a manner that be
trayed no emotion —he showed no more concern over that
remark than if he had been holding a conversation about
the weather.
"Did you see any doctors?"
"Yes, Dr. Lenhart;" (reputed pow-wow doctor).
"No, I mean real doctors. Any real doctors?"
The defendant named half a dozen or more doctors in
York, whom, he said, he had consulted.
"Were you ever treated in the York Hospital?"
"Yes, sir."
"Did you feel this way when you were living with your
wife?"
"Yes, sir."
"What did the doctors say was the matter with you?"
"You mean the medical doctors? Well, they said I had a
nervous disease. They said I had melancholia."
"Did they help you?"
The reply to the above question did not seem to be just
what Counsel Cohen expected, so he tried another query.
"Did you feel any better after you saw them?"
"No,, not much."
"After you went to the medical doctors, John, you went
to Dr. Lenhart?"
[ 17 ]
"witch" murder trial.
"Yes."
"What did he say was the matter with you?"
"He said I was bewitched."
The tone still continued calm, and even, as could be.
"Who else treated you?"
"Sam Schmuck."
"How many times did you see Sam Schmuck?"
"About a dozen."
"Did you feel any better after you saw him?"
"No."
"What did Schmuck say was the matter with you?"
"He said I was bewitched."
"How many times did you see Mrs. Noll?" (Mrs. Noll,
said to be the Marietta "witch," is said to be in her nineties,
and to have wielded much influence over Blymyer).
"Oh, quite a few times."
"What did she tell you was the matter with you?"
"She said I was bewitched."
"What did you say to her when you first saw her?"
"She asked me first how I felt and I said that's why I came
here to ask how I felt. Then she told me that somebody was
keeping my rest from me; that I couldn't sleep or eat and
was pining away."
"And you believed you were pining away?"
"Yes, sir."
"You believed you were dying?"
"Yes, sir, I was."
"Did Mrs. Noll tell you who had bewitched you?"
"Yes, she said a gentleman down in the country. She said
Rehmeyer, and I said which Rehmeyer, and she said 'Nelson
Rehmeyer.'
"
Now the trend of questioning changed, and Cohen asked
how Mrs. Noll operated in her discovery of who had him
bewitched. Blymyer had spoken of a dollar bill, so Cohen pro
duced a bank note which he handed to John, telling him to
indicate the way Mrs. Noll did. Blymyer took the note, and
placed it on the palm of his left hand, and looked up.
"She put it on my hand this way," he said. "Then she
said some words and took it off and I looked down in my
hand and there in my hand I could see Nelson Rehmeyer."
"What did you say then?"
"I asked her what would break the spell and she said get
the book, the Long Lost Friend, or the lock of hair."
[ 18 ]
WITCH MURDER TRIAL.
"Did she know Rehmeyer had such a book?"
"She must have, she told me to get the book."
"How many times did you go back to see Mrs. Noll?"
"Five or six times."
"Did she always tell you Nelson Rehmeyer had bewitched
you?"
"Yes, but that was the first time I saw him in my hand."
"When was this?"
"May be about three months ago. Something like that."
"Did anyone else ever tell you Nelson Rehmeyer had you
hexed?"
"No, sir."
"After Mrs. Noll, did you see any other powwow doctors?"
"Yes, Lenhart and Schmuck."
"Did they tell you who had bewitched you?"
"No, they said I was bewitched, but they said they weren't
sure who did it."
"Did you ever go to a pow-wow doctor named Murray?"
(Rufus Murray, negro).
"Yes."
"Did he say you were bewitched?"
"Yes, sir."
"When did you see him?"
"Not for about a year."
"When you saw Rehmeyer's picture in your hand, you
knew he had bewitched you?"
"Yes, sir; she (Mrs. Noll) told me so."
Cohen then asked Blymyer regarding his acquaintance with
Milton Hess, father of Wilbert, the 18-year-old boy, who
happened to be one of the principals in the murder of Reh
meyer. The elder Hess had told Blymyer about numerous
troubles within the family, and on the farm; crops were
failing, cattle were dying; the family was ill, and the next
time John went to see Mrs. Noll, he asked her about it.
Cohen then continued: "What did she tell you about the
Hess family?"
"She told me they were bewitched."
"Did you work for him?"
"Yes, I used to dig his potatoes."
"Did you ever go to Nelson Rehmeyer's for pow-wow
treatment?"
"Yes."
"When?"
"When I was down about a year ago."
[ 19 ]
"witch" murder trial.
"When you went there, did you sleep in the house?"
"The first time I did. The second time I came home."
"Now, John, I want you to come down to the time just
before all this happened and tell us how you decided to
go to Rehmeyer's house and for what purpose."
"Well, John Curry (the 14-year-old lad implicated) and
I talked it over and him and I made out to get hair or the
book."
"What did Curry say?"
"He said we could get some rope and tie Rehmeyer up
and get the hair, but I said that we better use wire; he said
it will cut, so we decided to get some rope at Swartz's
store, then we went to Curry's home."
As explained, this occurred on Monday, November 29, the
day before the murder; and on this same evening the boys
were at the home of Mrs. Alice Rehmeyer, as had been testi
fied.
"Monday evening John (Curry) and I went to the Hess
home and we talked to Wilbert and asked his brother, Clay
ton Hess, if he would take us where we were going in his
car. We went to Rehmeyer's house and when he got there
he wasn't there so we went and saw Mrs. Rehmeyer. I asked
her where he was, but she didn't know. I asked her didn't
he ever come over, and she said yes, he did, and she wished
the old devilish witch wouldn't come over. Then we went
back to Rehmeyer's and saw a light and he let us in. I asked
if he had a book called the Long Lost Friend, and he said he
had. That was all he said, you know, just that he had it. So
when we asked if we could stay all night he said all right."
"You slept in Rehmeyer's home Monday night, all night?"
"Yes, sir; in the kitchen; and so did John Curry."
"Where did Rehmeyer sleep?"
"I don't know; he went upstairs and turned off the light
and in the morning he got up and made breakfast and we
ate."
"Why didn't you tie him up and get the hair that night?"
"We made out he was too much for us to throw down and
we made out to get Wilbert Hess to help us get the hair."
"What happened at Hess's on Tuesday?"
"Nothing much. We asked Clayton to take us down and
he did. And we took Wilbert to help get the hair or the
book."
"Did you tell Clayton what you were going for?"
"Yes."
[ 20 ]
"witch" murder trial.
"Did you tell Wilbert?"
"Yes."
"Did you tell Mrs. Hess?"
"Not that I can remember of."
Blymyer next launched into a description of the fatal visit
to Rehmeyer's home on the night of the crime. He denied
taking active part in the slaying; claimed he had not struck
Rehmeyer, except with his fist; had not strangled him, nor
lighted the match with which the body was set on fire and
partly consumed.
"All right, John; tell us more," said his counsel.
"We went down to the same place and went to Rehmeyer's
home, and rapped at the door and Rehmeyer opened the win
dow and asked who was there. I said I came for the book
and he said he'd come down. We went in and he was holding
a lamp. I said where was the book and he didn't say any
thing. He went to the table to put away the flashlight and
Hess and I grabbed him. I started to beat him with my fists.
I grabbed a chair and hit at him, but I missed and the chair
hit the floor and broke. We got him down and he said to
let him up and he'd get the book, so we let him up and he
came for me full force like this." Blymyer illustrated with
his hands, extended forward like claws. Still no emotion in
his voice. "Hess and Curry grabbed him and they started
to beat him. Then Curry gets a block of wood and hits Reh
meyer with it twice. Curry dropped the wood and walked
around Rehmeyer and kicked him in the stomach."
"Was there any blood?" inquired his attorney.
"Yes, sir, when Curry hit him."
"How did the blood make you feel?"
"The blood made me feel sick."
"How did you feel?"
"Well, sick; like I wanted to vomit; you know." Here
John's recollections make him again make several motions
with his hands, and an expression on his face that indicated
a sickening feeling.
"What happened then?"
"Curry grabbed the lamp and went upstairs and Hess
behind him, and I went, too."
"Why did you go?"
"To look for the book."
Then followed a description of the scene upstairs, as he
told how Curry and Hess had found money on a dresser and
how they pocketed it.
[ 21 ]
"witch" murder trial.
"Did you say anything to them about taking the money?"
"I told them they oughtn't to do that."
After returning from the upstairs, and going to the place
where Rehmeyer lay, Curry is said to have tied a rope around
Rehmeyer's neck. Blymyer said he poured water around the
body, because someone has mentioned fingerprints. Later on
in his testimony he declared that he did not know what was
meant by fingerprints.
"Well, go on, John."
"Hessy got the tick off the bed and put it on Rehmeyer.
And then Curry takes the lamp and pours oil on the mattress.
And he asks me have I got a match and I say no I don't
smoke and I haven't got no matches. So then John finds a
match and he struck it and threw it down and then we
went out. He went first, then Curry, and then me. We all
started running across the field because I thought I saw some
one standing in the road, but Curry said it was just a
shadow."
After the continuation for some little time, of questions
and answers, neither the defendant nor his counsel seemed to
show any signs of tiring. The whole time during which Bly
myer was on the stand he was as rhythmic and as steady as is
"A. B. C." to the educated man.
The Judge, too, was kept quite busy during the question
ing of Blymyer, as he made numerous notes. All parley be
tween the Judge and the prosecuting attorney and counsel
for the defense having ceased with John's inimitable de
meanor on the stand. Then followed a unique series of ques
tions.
"John, could you put a spell on me?" said Mr. Cohen.
"No, sir; I couldn't."
"Could you put a spell on anyone?"
"No."
"Could Mrs. Noll put a spell on anyone?"
"I don't know."
"If Rehmeyer were alive could he put a spell on me?"
"Yes, he could."
"Since Rehmeyer and his hair have been buried, do you
feel better?"
"Yes, I can sleep and rest and eat."
"You are building yourself up, are you?"
"Well, I feel stronger."
[ 22 ]
"witch" murder trial.
John seems to have been quite satisfied with his lot, even
though he had been in the county jail for over a month
at the time of the trial. He wore rather a picture of con
tentment. That such were the reflections in his mind may
be noted in what at any other time would be considered
very "bold" statements.
"John, would you kill anyone who had hexed you?"
"Yes."
"If the Judge of this Court put a spell on you, would you
kill him?"
"Yes."
"If the District Attorney put a spell on you, would you
kill him?"
"Yes."
"If your father put a spell on you would you kill him?"
"Yes."
Then came the cross-examination of a determined District
Attorney. This failed to move the defendant.
"Did you receive any money from Milton Hess?" District
Attorney Hermann asked.
"Yes."
"How much?"
"Ten dollars."
"Why?"
"To get him a Queen Elizabeth root from Sam Schmuck
to keep away the hexes."
"Did you make Milton Hess believe you had the power
to remove spells?"
"No, sir."
The cross-examination concerned itself chiefly with the
State's effort to establish the robbery motive. Blymyer ad
mitted that Rehmeyer had taken some object from his pocket
during the fight and handed it to Curry, but he said the
object might have been the Long Lost Friend which Mrs.
Noll had told him to burn.
Blymyer, after the conclusion of his testimony, was taken
back to his seat with his counsel, and then began the final
battle to save him from the chair. His counsel made a fer
vent plea before the jury. The district attorney, contending
that the motive of robbery and the subsequent outcome, de
manded that the jury find the defendant guilty as charged.
Following the charge by Judge Ray P. Sherwood, the jury
retired, took three ballots, and reached their verdict in a
little over two hours.
[ 23 ]
"witch" murder trial.
"Guilty of murder in the first degree, with the recom
mendation of life imprisonment."
So ended the trial of John Blymyer, "born" in the Middle
Ages, and whose actual living had been postponed to the
Twentieth Century, A. D.
The law has been appeased; the public is satisfied. Ex
pressions have even been heard that the deceased was none
too good to meet the end he did. The lock of hair —all of
the hair, in fact, now lies under six or eight feet of ground!
The newspapers have ceased their sensational accounts of
the trial, as they appeared from day to day; the reporters
and photographers have returned to their assignments in their
own metropolitan areas. The shades in the court room have
been drawn, and John Blymyer is a ward of the State. He
will spend the rest of his days in the penitentiary —happy!
Now he can "eat, and sleep, and rest better." He is no
longer bewitched.
There are murder trials and murder trials, but few like
this one. Had not the imaginary, mysterious, elusive enigma
of witchcraft, pow-wowism, voodooism, "hex" and the like,
been injected into the case
But it was!
Immediately big news!
The metropolitan papers, wallowing deep in mire of their
own, thought this would prove to be a "witch trial" of no
mean importance!
Reporters from all papers and press associations; features
played up in all papers until the day of the trial, and then
overdone!
An apparently insane man implicated in the killing of one
no better than himself!
John Blymyer, as a space-grafter, has been the best bet,
non-politically, since Lindbergh crossed the Atlantic!
The people of York and York county were as little con
cerned and ruffled about this trial as one could well imagine.
Very few people from York attended the various sessions dur
ing the trial; most of those present being persons awaiting
their call for jury duty in another court, witnesses, and re
porters. (A "tip" to reporters who in the future are dis
appointed in not getting "reserved seats" at trials that have
all the "ear marks" of being sensational: —"make friends;"
don't come into Pennsylvania courts of justice with a "chip
[ 24 ]
witch" murder trial.
on your shoulder," and a determination to "raise hell" in your
"sheet" about the judge, or the trial itself.)
The case was but an unfortunate one, which might have
happened in any rural section anywhere in the United States,
or the entire world. It could easily have occurred in New
York City, or Washington! But York happens to have been
the victim of circumstances, as was John Blymyer, and the
only echo York county will recall will be John's board bill!
The populace of York county are not "dumb" and ignor
ant, as some papers would have their readers believe, just be
cause of the fact that many of their people are Pennsylvania-
Germans. On the contrary, York, the City, is one large
manufacturing centre, products being made there reaching
every point of the globe worthy of mention.
This history of the trial of John Blymyer, tends to por
tray a layman's view of the complex situation surrounding
a deplorable circumstance. This article is not prepared with
a view to filling a demand from a newspaper for "so much
space," but is prepared by the author as a matter of historical
interest for the future. None of the actors in the drama were
known to him. The newspapers bearing an account of the
trial daily, which vied with each other as to which one
would carry the most sensational stories, will soon have been
forgotten or destroyed, while this article of the trial, preser
ved in an attractive manner, may last for years and may serve
at least as a word lesson to others. There are no mercenary
or other motives underlying this account of the life of John
Blymyer, and the ultimate outcome of the practice of such
as believe as he believed, and practice as he "dreamed."
Who killed Cock Robin?
"Who killed Nelson D. Rehmeyer?"
"I didn't," said John Blymyer; "nor I," said John Curry;
"nor I," said Wilbert Hess.
The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania says the three just
mentioned killed Rehmeyer. The Commonwealth, dealing
in the material and things present, may be right. But much
evidence, it seems to us, is present which points to unseen
influences which could not be brought into court, as under
lying the whole business. John Curry, mere lad of 14, and
Wilbert Hess, 18, mere tools in the hands of cunning John
Blymyer, anxious to see "witchcraft" at close range, have been
[ 25 1
"witch" murder trial.
set back a life-time! John Blymyer, according to the evi
dence, was the tool of some person or spirit, not brought into
court. Who put the thought in the mind of Blymyer which
he could not blot out, until life was extinct in Nelson D.
Rehmeyer; until the latter's head, with many locks of hair,
was buried six to eight feet under the ground?
"The murder has been solved", says the Commonwealth;
(but has it the real murderers?) ; three young men will lan
guish or thrive in the penitentiary, but there is a persistency
of thought among any number of persons that there's a "nig
ger in the wood-pile" somewhere that hasn't been brought
to the Bar of Justice!
"Who killed Nelson D. Rehmeyer?"
NAMES OF PERSONS CONNECTED WITH THE TRIAL
The names of York County Officials prominent in the trial
are:
Presiding Judge—Hon. Ray P. Sherwood.
District Attorney —Amos W. Herrmann.
Counsel for the Defendant —Herbert W. Cohen.
Deputy Sheriff in charge of Prisoner —D. Wilson Kuehn.
Court Stenographer —Miss Grace Drayer.
The jurymen include the following persons (the figures
preceding each name are the order of acceptance) :
1. William E. Sprenkle, gentleman, 615 W. Market street,
York.
6. Harry P. Kissinger, bookkeeper at York Trust Com
pany, Springettsbury township.
8. H. K. StaufFer, gentleman, Spring Grove.
9. Noah A. Emig, farmer, Manheim township.
13. Curtis Leathery, farmer, Washington township.
14. Philip Myers, gentleman, Warrington township.
16. Charles R. McWilliams, wire worker, Hanover.
34. Walter Cunningham, painter, Springettsbury town
ship.
3 5. Harry Warner, clerk, East Newton avenue, York.
36. Earl E. Brown, weaver, 327 Springdale avenue, York.
38. Charles Reisinger, loomfixer, 118 W. Jackson street,
York.
44. John S. Fishel, justice of the peace, York Haven.
[ 26 ]
"witch" murder trial.
Forty-four talesmen were examined in the selection of the
jury. The defense exercised 18 pre-emptory challenges and
the Commonwealth six. There were nine challenges for cause
allowed by the judge. Most of these were for the rejection
of men who said that they had conscientious scruples against
capital punishment or who had fixed opinions, which could
not be changed by the evidence under oath in court.
The talesmen examined and rejected are Samuel Etter,
Jerry Bupp, Wilbur Painter, John M. Esper, Samuel T.
Sterner, James S. Fink, Levi Frey, Samuel T. Witmer, Ray
mond Oberdick, Edward D. Sterner, C. W. Myers, Chester
Martin, William H. Saylor, Alexander E. McLean, C. E.
Kessler, Lincoln McCurdy, B. Frank Gilbert, Percy J. Gnau,
E. H. Hoffman, Raymond Hively, J. C. Hosier, Raymond
L. Baustian, Harry Birnstock, Ralph W. Mitzel, H. B. Reis-
inger, Charles W. Myers, Charles M. Strickler, Wilson Barsh-
inger, Robert Dietz, Emanuel Stover, Samuel C. Edgar,
David E. Barshinger. Those rejected for cause were Messrs.
Fink, Frey, Sterner, Gnau, Hoffman, Baustian, Charles W.
Myers and William Barshinger.
THE GENESIS OF WITCHCRAFT.
The curious anachronism of witchcraft in 1929, reaching
an apex of blood-chilling nyctophobia in the middle of a busy
city next door to a bootlegger, arouses wonder.
The city of York, has received much unenviable publicity
because of this strange situation, which resulted eventually
in a brutal murder. The real facts, however, need not be
considered as particularly disgraceful to York. True enough,
the witchcraft superstition exists in that historic American
community in a more aggravated form than the majority
of its citizens are willing to admit. But this is not because
the people of York are less cultured or more superstitious
than those to be found in most other communities.
The vital point, seemingly overlooked during the recent
trials, is not the fact that witchcraft practices exist, but
the reason why they exist. The actual visible evidences are
only superficial symptoms of a deep-seated trouble, brought
to the surface by a peculiar combination of circumstances.
The fact is that there is incipient witchcraft everywhere.
It is found in the hundreds of superstitions which prevail
[ 27 ]
"witch" murder trial.
in all levels of society. In themselves they are innocent
enough. Friday the thirteenth, knocking on wood, breaking
mirrors, letting a baby see itself in a mirror, the three flutter
ing white butterflies prophetic of death, the danger of light
ing three cigarets off one match, the recklessness of entering
a house by one door and leaving by another —all these are
familiar manifestations.
They do little harm in most communities. Few persons
consider them very seriously. Only among the ignorant and
child-minded, as a general rule, are they accepted without
reservations.
Yet they are the essence of witchcraft. Only one step is
necessary to transfer them into the grotesque superstition
which produced such serious results in York. This step is the
appearance of the charlatan. —Washington (D. C.,) Star.
IN PRAISE OF YORK, PA.
To the Editor of the N. Y. World:
"Little York" apparently is in for some front-page notor
iety, if not advertising. Over where the "witches romp"
isn't such a bad place, after all, although your readers could
scarcely guess it from your news columns.
Seems to me I've read somewhere, and more than once,
that the two richest agricultural counties in the whole United
States, happen to be Lancaster and York, in Pennsylvania,
apparently peopled 100 per cent. by ignoramuses and "hex"
hounds, according to your reporter. Maybe he's right, but
his reports and Uncle Sam's just somehow do not seem to
jibe. Further, only a few months ago some prominent writer
for the Saturday Evening Post dealt with the farm problem
and began by suggesting that if Western farmers understood
farming as do the men of Lancaster and York counties, there
would be no national farm problem. Whether the disgruntled
Westerners ought to learn how to "pow wow" or the lean
hillbillies of York and Lancaster counties should get wise
and unlearn farming, I can only guess. Further, if they really
have weird signs on their barns and stables to scotch the
"hex," as your reporter says, they also have just about the
largest barns and stables and some of the fattest cattle and
the largest finished market for steers east of Chicago. All
this may go with ignorance, superstition, witchcraft and big
[ 28 ]
WITCH MURDER TRIAL.
bank balances, but as suggested it seems too unnatural and
hurly-burly to ring true.
A town that sheltered the Revolutionary American Gov
ernment for nearly a year; that produced Phineas Davis, who
built at York some of the first locomotives bought by the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad; that for two generations sup
plied railway cars to all the young railroads of the country;
that was the home of Judge Jeremiah Black, Attorney Gen
eral of the United States and one of the most prominent
lawyers of his time; a town that manufactures ice machines,
safes and locks, water wheels, wall paper, silk, woven wire,
steel chain and cable, agricultural machinery, cigars and what
not, and was the residence of A. B. Farquhar, nationally
known as publicist, writer and manufacturer—such a town,
I think, can hardly be the same place your reporter was
referring to, although his articles were dated there. Maybe
it has changed for the worse since I saw it last. But every
thing is different these days! If your reporter is right it
might be a good idea to import some of those Pennsylvania
Dutch witch doctors and train them to "hex" the gunmen
and gangsters around town. Then send more of them out West
to settle Hoover's farm problem. George I. King.
Brooklyn, N. Y., Jan. 16.
THE STRANGEST MURDER TRIAL IN YEARS.
Editorial in the Philadelphia Public Ledger.
There is a quality of pathos as well as tragedy in the tale
of the Witch Murder of York. The chief characters in the
story —the dead "witch," the simple-minded souls who took
his life, the families of those involved and the back-grounds
of life disclosed —all have a strange look in this modern world.
They seem somehow alien and afar off from everything in
the life that moves around them.
Yet men who believe in "hexerai" and all the Powers of
Darkness drive motor-cars through back roads to the house
of the "witch." They turn from watching an airplane moving
through the clouds to cast "spells" from the Long Lost
Friend, that musty "witch-book" filled with tripled Latin
crosses, holy words and black-typed "charms."
There is culture and high intelligence all around them in
this very old town of York, that was old when the Revolution
[ 29 ]
"witch" murder trial.
was fought. It is the contrast between all this virile, mod
ern, sound, vigorous and intelligent life and the dark mutter-
ings of the "powwow men" and the "hill-hawks" that sur
round the case of three backward-minded countrymen with
more than a passing interest.
The York County case is full of queer echoes out of a
very old past. How old no one knows. White men brought
"hexerai" to the hills, where it blended with the Indian
"powwow." The dark shapes that moved in the minds of
these hillmen and hillwomen, the ignorant "sorcery," the
sordid "black magic" and the grotesque faith-healing go back
for hundreds of years to medieval darkness.
These bedeviled and intangible things linger in the lonely
spaces and in the mean streets. They come from even farther
back than the Dark Ages. Some of them are undoubtedly
"racial memories," tracing back to skin-clad men sitting
around red fires glowing at the dark mouths of hillside caves.
It may be strange that the twilight of superstition should
linger so long, but linger it does in a thousand places in
America. When a screech owl whimpers in the trees outside,
the mountaineer of the Great Smokies thrusts a shovel in
the red hearth coals to drive the "witch bird" away.
Some of the gunmen of "Bloody Herrin" wore luck
charms" around their hairy necks. The Ozark "hill-billy"
believes that a silver bullet fired into a rude charcoal draw
ing of the witch is the only way to break the spell of witch
craft.
The Long Lost Friend, the "witchbook" of York, promises
its owner that no evil shall befall him while it is in his pos
session. The warrior of Luzon clings to his "anting-anting"
as some of the Indian fighters of the Old Frontier clung
to their own strange "luck charms" to save them from bullet
and tomahawk.
"Charms" are sold to this good day in great American
cities. All the outworn superstition is not hidden in the back
townships. The Pennsylvania hills are not the last and only
strongholds of muddle-minded belief in "signs" and "spells"
and bewitchments. For as Kipling sang a good many years
ago:
Oh the road to En-Dor is the oldest road
And the craziest road of all!
Straight it runs to the Witch's abode,
As it did in the days of Saul. * * *
[ 30 ]
"witch" murder trial.
Human credulity is an amazing thing. Three country
boys murdering a man in a lonely farmhouse to get a lock
of his hair to break a "spell" is hardly more startling than
that other tale of a "spirit message" from the dead Houdini.
Belief in the supernatural dies hard, if it dies at all.
Contact with the world and such enlightenment as comes
from education will spell the doom of the Powwow Man.
The sorry figures and pathetic shapes of the trial at York
are helping in their own sorry way to drive time-worn su
perstition back into its own dark past. They are unwilling
instruments in breaking witchcraft's own devilish "spell"
that grips the backward and simple mind.
The State owes these people something that is not being
paid in the "witch trial." It owes them the kind of educa
tion that will make the "powwow" no more than a memory
to the next generation.
The editor of the Ledger wrote well regarding the trial
at York—and if only the various newspaper reporters would
write as carefully as the editors, this "farce" would not have
been so "serious."
The editor wrote carefully, and well, until his last para
graph, which we are sure he will not object to having his
attention called to.
What kind of State does be think can -make even the
American people learn so much "that will make the "pow
wow" (and other superstitions too numerous to mention)
no more than a memory to the next generation}"
We have had thousands and thousands of years to over
come superstition; yet it loiters —it is a part of man's na
tural heritage —it cannot be avoided! The only "state" that
can remove doubts and superstitions is the State of Death!
John Curry, the 14-year-old lad in the "witch" murder
was sentenced to the penitentiary for life. The jury reached
its verdict in an hour and three-quarters, after a trial lasting
but a day.
Wilbert G. Hess, 18, was found guilty of murder in the
second degree, and sentenced to from ten to twenty years
in the penitentiary. The jury in this case reaching its ver
dict in about three hours.
Thus did York county arrange to take care of the three
young "criminals," in trials that lasted just one week.
York county scarcely ever sends a man to death!
[ 31 ]
John George Hohman'B
POW WOWS; or LONG LOST FRIEND.
John George Hohman's
3*ow>*cWows;
OR,
jCong jCost friend.
A COLLECTION
OF MYSTERIOUS AND INVALUABLE
ARTS AND REMEDIES
FOR
MAN AS WELL AS ANIMALS.
WITH MANY PROOFS
Of their virtue and efficacy in healing diseases, etc., the great
er part of which was never published until they
appeared in print for the first time in
the U. S. in the year 1820.
[Reprinted from an Old Edition]
S*W WHOEVER carries this book with him, is safe from
all his enemies, visible or invisible; and whoever has this
book with him cannot die without the holy corpse of Jesus
Christ, nor drowned in any water, nor burn up in any fire,
nor can any unjust sentence be passed upon him. So help me.
PUBLISHER'S HISTORICAL NOTE:
This edition of John George Hohman's Pow-Wows; or
Long Lost Friend is reprinted entirely, word for word, from
one of the many editions which have appeared in the English
translations. The Westminster, Md., 185 5, and Harrisburg,
Pa., 1856, editions, are said to be the first English editions
to appear on the book market. Since then thousands and
thousands of cheaply printed and bound copies have been
sold to a constantly buying public.
We recall the old adage: "Whatever is worth doing, is
worth doing well;" hence the present remarkably well print
ed and bound copy is presented to the curious public. The
folk-customs, manners, superstitions, beliefs and practices of
a not so distant past, are, and always will be, subjects of
interest to many, be they students, professional men and
women, or they who still cling to these old-time Arts and
Remedies.
Were it not for the past, the present would have nothing
to depend on. Therefore, we are justified in the light of
modern days, to show some outstanding practices of the
past, by some said to be superstition —pure and simple; by
others, a form of psychology, or misguided knowledge, or
illusion.
While not paramount factors in everyday life of any
particular class of people at the present time, nevertheless,
many of the "'remedies," and beliefs are in constant force and
practice in the home and community life of untold numbers
of people.
Many of the remedies included in the following pages
may seem absurd to the average person of today, but when
written, a hundred and ten years ago, most of them were
"meat and drink" to our forbears. When,— (a hundred years
from now)
— the truth is written about the customs, fash
ions, beliefs and peculiarities of the American people of 1929,
we will appear as strange, if not ludicrous to our coming
generations, as the sincere beliefs and practices of our an
cestors of a hundred years ago, appear to us today.
The use of manures for fertilization of our food stuffs
[ v ]
vi publisher's historical note.
has always been an advantage, if not an absolute necessity;
the more of it properly used, the better the harvest! Does
mention of it in a book of this kind in connection with
various remedies render an offensiveness to the one nostril—
more so than does the other instance just mentioned, to the
other nostril? Are critics always consistent?
We do not underwrite or endorse a single recipe in the
following pages. Some of them, or all of them, may be
good for something— or good for nothing! As stated pre
viously, they are reprinted for what they may be worth —
to the practitioner — as well as for the curious.
The Publishers.
Harrisburg, Pa., February 1929.
PREFACE
TO THE FIRST EDITION OF THIS USEFUL BOOK.
The author would have preferred writing no preface what
ever to this little book, were it not indispensably necessary,
in order to meet the erroneous views some men entertain in
regard to works of this character. The majority, undoubt
edly, approve of the publication and sale of such books, yet
some are always found who will persist in denouncing them
as something wrong. This latter class I cannot help but
pity, for being so far led astray; and I earnestly pray every
one who might find it in his power, to bring them from off
their ways of error. It is true, whosoever taketh the name
of Jesus in vain, committeth a great sin. Yet, is it not ex
pressly written in the fiftieth Psalm, according to Luther's
translation: "Call upon me in the day of trouble; I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." In the Catholic
translation, the same passage is found in the forty-ninth
Psalm, reading thus: "Call upon me in the day of thy trou
ble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
Where is the doctor who has ever cured or banished the
panting or palpitation of the heart, and hideboundness?
Where is the doctor who ever banished a wheal? Where is
the doctor who ever banished the mother-fits? Where is
the doctor that can cure mortification when it once seizes
a member of the body? All these cures, and a great many
more mysterious and wonderful things are contained in this
book; and its author could take an oath at any time upon
the fact of his having successfully applied many of the
prescriptions contained herein.
I say: any and every man who knowingly neglects using
this book in saving the eye, or the leg, or any other limb
of his fellow-man, is guilty of the loss of such limb, and
thus commits a sin, by which he may forfeit to himself
all hope of salvation. Such men refuse to call upon the Lord
in their trouble, although He especially commands it. If
men were not allowed to use sympathetic words, nor the
name of the MOST HIGH, it certainly would not have been
[ vii ]
PREFACE.
revealed to them; and what is more, the Lord would not help
where they are made use of. God can in no manner be forced
to intercede where it is not his divine pleasure.
Another thing I have to notice here: There are men who
will say, if one has used sympathetic words in vain, the
medicines of doctors could not avail any, because the words
did not affect a cure. This is only the excuse of physicians;
because whatever cannot be cured by sympathetic words,
can much less be cured by any doctor's craft or cunning. I
could name at any time that Catholic priest whose horse
was cured with mere words; and I could also give the name
of the man who did it. I knew the priest well; he formerly
resided in Westmoreland county. If it was desired, I could
also name a Reformed preacher who cured several persons
of the fever, merely by writing them some tickets for that
purpose; and even the names of those persons I could men
tion. This preacher formerly resided in Berks county. If
men but use out of this book what they actually need, they
surely commit no sin; yet woe unto those who are guilty
that anyone loses his life in consequence of mortification, or
loses a limb, or the sight of the eye! Woe unto those who
misconstrue these things at the moment of danger, or who
follow the ill advice of any preacher who might teach them
not to mind what the Lord says in the fiftieth Psalm. "Call
upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify me." Woe unto those who, in obeying the di
rections of a preacher, neglect using any means offered by
this book against mortification, or inflammation, or the wheal.
I am willing to follow the preacher in all reasonable things,
yet when I am in danger and he advises me not to use any
prescriptions found in this book, in such a case I shall not
obey him. And woe also unto those who use the name of
the Lord in vain and for trifling purposes.
I have given many proofs of the usefulness of this book,
and I could yet do it at any time. I sell my books publicly,
and not secretly, as other mystical books are sold. I am
willing that my books should be seen by everybody, and I
shall not secrete or hide myself from any preacher. I, Hoh-
man, too, have some knowledge of the Scriptures, and I know
when to pray and call unto the Lord for assistance. The
publication of books (provided they are useful and morally
right) is not prohibited in the United States, as is the case
in other countries where kings and despots hold tyrannical
sway over the people. I place myself upon the broad plat
form of the liberty of the press and of conscience, in regard
to this useful book, and it shall ever be my most heartfelt
PREFACE. ix
desire that all men might have an opportunity of using it to
their good, in the name of Jesus.
Given at Rosenthal, near Reading, Berks county, Penn.,
on the 31st day of July, in the year of our Lord, 1819.
JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN.
Author and original publisher of this book.
TESTIMONIALS,
Which go to show at any time, that I, Hohman, have suc
cessfully applied the prescriptions of this book.
Benjamin Stoudt, the son of a Lutheran schoolmaster,
at Reading, suffered dreadfully from a wheal in the eye. In
a little more than 24 hours this eye was as sound as the other
one, by the aid I rendered him with the help of God, in the
year 1817.
Henry Jorger, residing in Reading, brought to me a boy
who suffered extreme pain, caused by a wheal in the eye, in
the year 1814. In a little more than 24 hours, I, with the
help of God, have healed him.
John Bayer, son of Jacob Bayer, now living near Read
ing, had an ulcer on his leg, which gave him great pain. I
attended him, and in a short time the leg was well. This was
in the year 1818.
Landlin Gottwald, formerly residing in Reading, had a
severe pain in his one arm. In about 24 hours I cured his
arm.
Catharine Meck, at that time in Alsace township, suf
fered very much from a wheal in the eye. In a little more
than 24 hours the eye was healed.
Mr. Silvis, of Reading, came to my house while engaged
at the brewery of my neighbor. He felt great pain in the
eye caused by a wheal. I cured his eye in a little more than
24 hours.
Anna Snyder, of Alsace township, had a severe pain in
one of her fingers. In a little more than twenty-four hours
she felt relieved.
Michael Hartman, Jr., living in Alsace township, had a
child with a very sore mouth. I attended it and in a little
more than twenty-four hours it was well again.
John Bingemann, at Ruscombmanor, Berks county, had
a boy who burnt himself dreadfully. My wife came to that
place in the fall of the year 1812. Mortification had already
■
z TESTIMONIALS.
set in—my wife had sympathy for it, and in a short time
the mortification was banished. The boy was soon after per
fectly cured and became well again. It was about the same
time my wife cured John Bingemann's wife of the wild-fire,
which she had on a sore leg.
Susanna Gomber had a severe pain in the head. In a
short time I relieved her.
The wife of David Brecht also felt a severe pain in the
head, and was relieved by me in a short time.
John Junkins' daughter and daughter-in-law both suf
fered very much from pain in the head; and his wife too had
a sore cheek, on which the wild-fire had broken out severely.
The headache of the daughter and the daughter-in-law was
banished by me; and the wild-fire of the wife was cured
in some seven or nine hours; the swelled cheek burst open
and healed very fast. The woman had been laid up several
days already on account of it. The family of Junkins live
at Nackenmixen, but Brecht and Gomber reside in and near
Reading. Nackenmixen is in Bucks county. The four last
mentioned were cured in the year 1819.
The daughter of John Arnold scalded herself with boiling
coffee; the handle of the pot broke off while she was pour
ing out coffee, and the coffee ran over the arm and burnt
it severely. I was present and witnessed the accident. I ban
ished the burning; the arm did not get sore at all, and healed
in a short time. This was in the year 181$. Mr. Arnold
lived near Lebanon, Lebanon county, Perm.
Jacob Stouefer, at Heckak, Bucks county, had a little
child who was subject to convulsions every hour. I sold him
a book containing the 25 letters; and he was persuaded by
his neighbor, Henry Frankenfield, to try these 2 5 letters. The
result was that the child was instantaneously free from con
vulsions and perfectly well. These letters are also to be found
in this book.
HG^If any one of the above named witnesses, who have
been cured by me and my wife through the help of God,
dares to call me a liar, and deny having been relieved by us,
although they have confessed that they have been cured by
us, I shall, if it is at all possible, compel them to repeat their
confession before a Justice of the Peace.
A letter to cure rheumatism, sold at from one to two dol
lars, and did not even give directions how to make use of
it; these depending on verbal communications. John Allgaier,
of Reading, had a very sore finger. I used sympathy to ban
ish the wild-fire and to cure the finger. The very next
morning the wild-fire was gone; he scarcely felt any pain,
TESTIMONIALS.
and the finger began to heal very fast. This was in 1819.
flS^This book is partly derived from a work published
by a Gypsy, and partly from secret writings, and collected
with much pain and trouble, from all parts of the world,
at different periods, by the author, John George Hohman. I
did not wish to publish it; my wife, also was opposed to its
publication; but my compassion for my suffering fellow-
men was too strong, for I had seen many a one lose his
entire sight by a wheal, and his life or limb by mortification.
And how dreadfully has many a woman suffered from moth
er-fits? And I therefore ask thee again, oh friend, male or
female, is it not to my everlasting praise, that I have had
such books printed? Do I not deserve the rewards of God
for it? Where else is the physician that could cure these dis
eases? Besides that I am a poor man in needy circumstances,
and it is a help to me if I can make a little money with the
sale of my books.
The Lord bless the beginning and the end of this little
work, and be with us, that we may not misuse it, and thus
commit a heavy sin! The word misuse means as much as to
use it for anything unnecessary. God bless us! Amen. The
word Amen means as much as that the Lord might bring
to pass in reality what had been asked for in prayer.
HOHMAN.
NOTE.
There are many in America who believe neither in a hell
nor in a heaven; but in Germany there are not so many of
these persons found. I, Hohman, ask: Who can immediately
banish the wheal, or mortification? I reply, and I, Hohman,
say: All this is done by the Lord. Therefore, a hell and a
heaven must exist; and I think very little of any one who
dares deny it.
JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN'S POW-WOWS
ON
ARTS AND REMEDIES.
A good Remedy for Hysterics (or Mother Fits), to be used
three times.—Put that joint of the thumb which sits in the
palm of the hand on the bare skin covering the small bone
which stands out above the pit of the heart, and speak the
following at the same time:
Matrix, patrix, lay thyself right and safe,
Or thou or I shall on the third day fill the grave. t t t
Another Remedy for Hysterics and for Colds. —This must
be attened to every evening, that
is,
whenever you pull
off your shoes and stockings, run your finger in between
all the toes and smell it. This will certainly effect a cure.
A certain Remedy to stop Bleeding, which cures, no mat
ter how far
a
person be away,
if
only his first name
is
rightly
pronounced while using it:
Jesus Christ, dearest blood!
That stoppeth the pain and stoppeth the blood.
In this help you [first name] God the Father, God the
Son, God the Holy Ghost. Amen.
A
remedy to be used when anyone
is
falling away, and
which has cured many persons.—Let the person in perfect
soberness and without having conversed with anyone, catch
rain in
a
pot, before sunrise; boil an egg in this; bore three
small holes in this egg with
a
needle, and carry
it
to an ant
hill made by big ants; and the person will feel relieved as
soon as the egg
is
devoured.
Another Remedy to be applied when anyone
is
sick, which
has effected many
a
cure where doctors could not help. —
Let the sick person, without having conversed with anyone,
put water in
a
bottle before sunrise, close
it
up tight, and
put
it
immediately in some box or chest, lock
it
and stop
up the keyhole; the key must be carried in one of the pockets
[
13
]
14 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
for three days, as nobody dare have it except the person
who puts the bottle with water in the chest or box.
A good Remedy for Worms, to be used for men as well
as for Cattle:
Mary, God's mother, traversed the land,
Holding three worms close in her hand;
One was white, the other was black, the third was red.
This must be repeated three times, at the same time strok
ing the person or animal with the hand; and at the end
of each application strike the back of the person or the ani
mal, to wit: at the first application once, at the second ap
plication twice, and at the third application three times; and
then set the worms a certain time, but not less than three
minutes.
A good Remedy against Calumniation or Slander. —If you
are calumniated or slandered to your very skin, to your very
flesh, to your very bones, cast it back upon the false tongues.
t t t
Take off your shirt, and turn it wrong side out, and then
run your two thumbs along your body, close under the ribs,
starting at the pit of the heart down to the thighs.
A good Remedy for the Colic.—I warn ye, ye colic fiends!
There is one sitting in judgment, who speaketh: just or un
just. Therefore beware, ye colic fiends! t t t
A good Remedy for the Fever. — Good morning, dear
Thursday! Take away from [name] the 77-fold fevers.
Oh! thou dear Lord Jesus Christ, take them away from him!
t t t
This must be used on Thursday for the first time, on Fri
day for the second time, and on Saturday for the third time;
and each time thrice. The prayer of faith has also to be
said each time, and not a word dare be spoken to anyone
until the sun has risen. Neither dare the sick person speak
to anyone till after sunrise; nor eat pork, nor drink milk,
nor cross a running water, for nine days.
To Attach a Dog to a Person, Provided Nothing Else was
Used Before to Effect it.—Try to draw some of your blood,
and let the dog eat it along with his food, and he will stay
with you. Or scrape the four corners of your table while
you are eating, and continue to eat with the same knife
after having scraped the corners of the table. Let the dog
eat those scrapings, and he will stay with you.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES.
A very good Remedy for Palpitation of the Heart, and
for Persons who are Hide-Bound:
Palpitation and hide-bound, be off [name] ribs,
Since Christ, our Lord, spoke truth with his lips.
A Precaution against Injuries.—Whoever carries the right
eye of a wolf fastened inside of his right sleeve, remains free
from all injuries.
To make a Wand for Searching for Iron, Ore or Water. —
On the first night of Christmas, between 11 and 12 o'clock,
break off from any tree a young twig of one year's growth,
in the three highest names (Father, Son and Holy Ghost),
at the same time facing toward sunrise. Whenever you apply
this wand in searching for anything, apply it three times.
The twig must be forked, and each end of the fork must
be held in one hand, so that the third and thickest part of
it stands up, but do not hold it too tight. Strike the ground
with the thickest end, and that which you desire will ap
pear immediately, if there is any in the ground where you
strike. The words to be spoken when the wand is thus
applied are as follows:
Archangel Gabriel, I conjure thee in the name of God, the
Almighty, to tell me, is there any water here or not? do
tell me! t t t
If you are searching for Iron or Ore, you have to say the
same, only mention the name of what you are searching for.
How to Obtain Things which are Desired. —If you call
upon another to ask for a favor, take care to carry a little
of the five-finger grass with you, and you shall certainly
obtain that you desired.
A Sure Way of Catching Fish. —Take rose seed and mus
tard seed, and the foot of a weasel, and hang these in a net,
and the fish will certainly collect there.
A safe Remedy for various Ulcers, Boils and other Defects.
•—Take the root of an iron-weed, and tie it around the neck;
it cures running ulcers; it also serves against obstructions
in the bladder (stranguary) , and cures the piles, if the roots
are boiled in water with honey, and drank; it cleans and
heals the lungs and effects a good breath. If this root is
planted among grape vines or fruit trees, it promotes the
growth very much. Children who carry it are educated with
out any difficulty; they become fond of all useful arts and
sciences, and grow up joyfully and cheerfully.
16 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
GOOD REMEDY FOR MORTIFICATION AND INFLAMMATION
Sanctus Itorius res, call the rest. Here the mother of God
came to his assistance, reaching out her snow-white hand,
against the hot and cold brand. t t t
Make three crosses with the thumb. Everything which
is applied in words, must be applied three times, and an inter
val of several hours must intervene each time, and for the
third time it is to be applied the next day, unless where
it is otherwise directed.
TO PREVENT WICKED OR MALICIOUS PERSONS FROM DOING
YOU AN INJURY AGAINST WHOM IT IS OF GREAT POWER
Dullix, ix, ux. Yea, you can't come over Pontio; Pontio
is above Pilato. t t t
A VERY GOOD REMEDY TO DESTROY BOTS OR WORMS IN HORSES
You must mention the name of the horse, and say: "If you
have any worms, I will catch you by the forehead. If they
be white, brown or red, they shall and must now all be dead."
You must shake the head of the horse three times, and pass
your hand over his back three times to and fro. t t t
TO CURE THE POLL-EVIL IN HORSES, IN TWO OR THREE
APPLICATIONS.
Break off three twigs from a cherry-tree: one towards
morning, one towards evening, and one towards mid
night. Cut three small pieces off the hind part of your
shirt, and wrap each of those twigs in one of these pieces;
then clean the poll-evil with the twigs and leave them under
the eaves. The ends of the twigs which had been in the
wound must be turned toward the north; after which you
must do your business on them, that is to say, you must
dirty them; then cover it, leaving the rags around the twigs.
After all this the wound must be again stirred with the three
twigs, in one or two days, and the twigs placed as before.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR BAD WOUNDS AND BURNS.
The word of God, the milk of Jesus' mother, and Christ's
blood, is for all wounds and burnings good. t t t
It is the safest way in all these cases to make the crosses
with the hand or thumb three times over the affected parts;
that is to say, over all those things to which the three crosses
are attached.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 17
A VERY GOOD REMEDY FOR THE WILD-FIRE.
Wild-fire and the dragon, flew over a wagon,
The wild-fire abated and the dragon skated.
TO STOP PAINS OR SMARTING IN A WOUND.
Cut three small twigs from a tree —each to be cut off in
one cut—rub one end of each twig in the wound, and wrap
them separately in a piece of white paper, and put them in
a warm and dry place.
TO DESTROY WARTS.
Roast chicken-feet and rub the warts with them; then
bury them under the eaves.
TO BANISH THE WHOOPING COUGH.
Cut three small bunches of hair from the crown of the
head of a child that has never seen its father; sew this hair
up in an unbleached rag and hang it around the neck of
the child having the whooping cough. The thread with which
the rag is sewed must also be unbleached.
ANOTHER REMEDY FOR THE WHOOPING COUGH WHICH HAS
CURED THE MAJORITY OF THOSE WHO HAVE APPLIED IT.
Thrust the child having the whooping cough three times
through a blackberry bush, without speaking or saying any
thing. The bush, however, must be grown fast at two ends,
and the child must be thrust through three times in the same
manner, that is to say, from the same side it was thrust
through in the first place.
A GOOD REMEDY TO STOP BLEEDING.
This is the day on which the injury happened. Blood, thou
must stop, until the Virgin Mary bring forth another son.
Repeat these words three times.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR THE TOOTHACHE.
Stir the sore tooth with a needle until it draws blood; then
take a thread and soak it with this blood. Then take vine
gar and flour, mix them well so as to form a paste and spread
it on a rag, then wrap this rag around the root of an apple-
tree, and tie it very close with the above thread, after which
the root must be well covered with ground.
HOW TO WALK AND STEP SECURELY IN ALL PLACES.
Jesus walketh with [name]. He is my head; I am his
limb. Therefore walketh Jesus with [name]. t t t
18 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
A VERY GOOD REMEDY FOR THE COLIC.
Take half a gill of good rye whiskey, and a pipe full of
tobacco; put the whiskey in a bottle, then smoke the tobacco
and blow the smoke into the bottle, shake it well and drink
it. This has cured the author of this book and many others.
Or, take a white clay pipe which has turned blackish from
smoking, pound it to a fine powder, and take it. This will
have the same effect.
TO BANISH CONVULSIVE FEVERS
Write the following letters on a piece of white paper, sew
it on a piece of linen or muslin, and hang it around the neck
until the fever leaves you:
AbaxaCatabaxa
AbaxaCatabax
AbaxaCataba
AbaxaCatab
AbaxaCata
AbaxaCat
A b a x a C a
A b a x a C
A b a x a
A b a x
Aba
A b
A
HOW TO BANISH THE FEVER
Write the following words upon a paper and wrap it up
in knot-grass, (breiten Megrieh,) and then tie it upon the
body of the person who has the fever:
Potmat sineat,
Potmat sineat,
Potmat sineat.
A VERY GOOD PLASTER
I doubt very much whether any physician in the United
States can make a plaster equal to this. It heals the white
swelling, and has cured the sore leg of a woman who for
eighteen years had used the prescriptions of doctors in vain.
Take two quarts of cider, one pound of bees'-wax, one
pound of sheep-tallow, and one pound of tobacco; boil the
tobacco in the cider till the strength is out, and then strain
it, and add the other articles to the liquid; stir it over a
gentle fire till all is dissolved.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 19
TO MAKE A GOOD EYE-WATER
Take four cents' worth of white vitriol, four cents' worth
of prepared spicewort (calamus root), four cents' worth of
cloves, a gill of good whiskey and a gill of water. Make
the calamus fine and mix all together; then use it after it
has stood a few hours.
A VERY GOOD REMEDY FOR THE WHITE SWELLING
Take a quart of unslacked lime, and pour two parts of
water on it; stir it well and let it stand over night. The
scum that collects on the lime-water must be taken off,
and a pint of flax-seed oil poured in, after which it must
be stirred until it becomes somewhat consistent; then put
it in a pot or pan, and add a little lard and wax; melt it
well, and make a plaster, and apply it to the parts affected
—the plaster should be renewed every day, or at least every
other day, until the swelling is gone.
A REMEDY FOR EPILEPSY, PROVIDED THE SUBJECT HAD
NEVER FALLEN INTO FIRE OR WATER
Write reversedly or backwards upon a piece of paper:
"IT IS ALL OVER!" This is to be written but once upon
the paper; then put it in a scarlet-red cloth, and then wrap
it in a piece of unbleached linen, and hang it around the
neck on the first Friday of the new moon. The thread with
which it is tied must also be unbleached. t t t
REMEDY FOR BURNS
"Blow, I blow on thee!" —It must be blown on three
times in the same breath, like the fire by the sun. t t t
TO STOP BLEEDING
Count backwards from fifty inclusive till you come down
to three. As soon as you arrive at three, you will be done
bleeding.
A REMEDY TO RELIEVE PAIN
Take a rag which was tied over a wound for the first
time, and put it in water together with some copperas; but
do not venture to stir the copperas until you are certain
of the pain having left you.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR THE TOOTHACHE
Cut out a piece of greensward (sod) in the morning be
fore sunrise, quite unbeshrewdly from any place, breathe
three times upon it, and put it down upon the same place
from which it was taken.
20 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
TO REMOVE BRUISES AND PAINS
Bruise, that shalt not heat;
Bruise, thou shalt not sweat;
Bruise, thou shalt not run,
No more than Virgin Mary shall bring forth
another son. t t t
A REMARKABLE PASSAGE FROM THE BOOK OF ALBERTUS
MAGNUS
It says: If you burn a large frog to ashes, and mix the
aches with water, you will obtain an ointment that will, if
put on any place covered with hair, destroy the hair and pre
vent it from growing again.
ANOTHER PASSAGE FROM THE WORK OF ALBERTUS MAGNUS.
If you find the stone which a vulture has in his knees, and
which you may find by looking sharp, and put it in the
victuals of two persons who hate each other, it causes them
to make up and be good friends.
TO CURE FITS OR CONVULSIONS
You must go upon another person's land, and repeat the
following words: "I go before another court—I tie up my
77-fold fits." Then cut three small twigs off any tree on
the land; in each twig you must make a knot. This must
be done on a Friday morning before sunrise, in the decrease
of the moon unbeshrewdly. t t t Then over your body
where you feel the fits you make the crosses. And thus they
may be made in all cases where they are applied.
CURE FOR THE HEADACHE
Tame thou flesh and bone, like Christ in Paradise; and
who will assist thee, this I tell thee \name~\ for your re
pentance sake. t t t This you must say three times, each
time lasting for three minutes, and your headache will soon
cease. But if your headache is caused by strong drink, or
otherwise will not leave you soon, then you must repeat
those words every minute. This, however, is not often ne
cessary in regard to headache.
TO MEND BROKEN GLASS
Take common cheese and wash it well, unslaked lime and
the white of eggs, rub all these well together until it becomes
one mass, and then use. If it is made right, it will certainly
hold.
HOW TO MAKE CATTLE RETURN TO THE SAME PLACE
Pull out three small bunches of hair, one between the
horns, one from the middle of the back, and one near the
tail, and make your cattle eat it in their feed.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 21
ANOTHER METHOD OF MAKING CATTLE RETURN HOME
Take a handful of salt, go upon your fields and make your
cattle walk three times around the same stump or stone, each
time keeping the same direction; that is to say, you must
three times arrive at the same end of the stump or stone
at which you started from, and then let your cattle lick
the salt from the stump or stone.
TO PREVENT THE HESSIAN FLY FROM INJURING THE WHEAT
Take pulverized charcoal, make ley of it, and soak the
seed wheat in it; take it out of the ley, and on every bushel
of wheat sprinkle a quart of urine; stir it well, then spread
it out to dry.
TO PREVENT CHERRIES FROM RIPENING BEFORE MARTINMAS
Engraft the twigs upon a mulberry-tree, and your desire
is accomplished.
STTNGING NETTLES GOOD FOR BANISHING FEARS AND FAN
CIES, AND TO CAUSE FISH TO COLLECT
Whenever you hold this weed in your hand together with
Millifolia, you are safe from all fears and fancies that fre
quently deceive men. If you mix it with a decoction of the
hemlock, and rub your hands with it, and put the rest in
water that contains fish, you will find the fish to collect
around your hands. Whenever you pull your hands out of
the water, the fish disappear by returning to their former
places.
HELIOTROPE (SUN-FLOWER) A MEANS TO PREVENT
CALUMNIATION.
The virtues of this plant are miraculous. If it be collected
in the sign of the lion, in the month of August, and wrap
ped up in a laurel leaf together with the tooth of a wolf.
Whoever carries this about him, will never be addressed
harshly by anyone, but all will speak to him kindly and
peaceably. And if anything has been stolen from you put
this under your head during the night, and you will surely
see the whole figure of the thief. This has been found true.
TO HEAL A SORE MOUTH
If you have the scurvy, or quinsy too,
I breathe my breath three times into you,
t t t
A GOOD REMEDY FOR CONSUMPTION
Consumption, I order thee out of the bones into the flesh,
out of the flesh upon the skin, out of the skin into the wilds
of the forest. t t t
22 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
SWALLOW-WORT
A means to overcome and end all fighting and anger, and
to cause a sick man to weep when his health is restored, or
to sing with a cheerful voice when on his death bed; also
a very good remedy for dim eyes or shining of the eyes.
This weed grows at the time when the swallows build their
nests or eagles breed. If a man carries this about him, to
gether with the heart of a mole, he shall overcome all fighting
and anger. If these things are put upon the head of a
sick man, he shall weep at the restoration of his health, and
sing with a cheerful voice when he comes to die. When the
swallow-wort blooms, the flowers must be pounded up and
boiled, and then the water must be poured off into another
vessel, and again be placed to the fire and carefully skimmed;
then it must be filtered through a cloth and preserved, and
whosoever has dim eyes or shining eyes, may bathe his eyes
with it, and they will become clear and sound.
FOR THE HOLLOW HORN IN COWS.
Bore a small hole in the hollow horn, milk the same cow,
and squirt her milk into the horn; this is the best cure.
Use a syringe to squirt the milk into the horn.
A VERY GOOD AND CERTAIN MEANS OF DESTROYING THE
WHEAL IN THE EYE.
Take a dirty plate; if you have none, you can easily dirty
one, and the person for whom you are using sympathy shall
in a few minutes find the pain much relieved. You must
hold that side of the plate or dish, which is used in eating,
toward the eye. While you hold the plate before the eye,
you must say:
Dirty plate, I press thee,
Wheal in the eye, do flee.
t t t
TO MAKE CHICKENS LAY MANY EGGS.
Take the dung of rabbits, pound it to powder, mix it with
bran, wet the mixture till it forms lumps, and feed your
chickens with it, and they will keep on laying a great many
WORDS TO BE SPOKEN WHILE MAKING DIVINATORY WANDS.
In making divinatory wands, they must be broken as before
directed, and while breaking and before using them, the fol
lowing words must be spoken:
Divining rod, do thou keep that power,
Which God gave unto thee at the very first hour.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 23
/
HOW TO DESTROY A TAPE-WORM.
Worm, I conjure thee by the living God, that thou shalt
flee this blood and this flesh, like as God the Lord will shun
that judge who judges unjustly, although he might have
judged aright. t t t
A GOOD REMEDY FOR BOTS IN HORSES.
Every time you use this, you must stroke the horse down
with the hand three times, and lead it about three times
holding its head toward the sun, saying: "The Holy One
saith: Joseph passed over a field and there he found three
small worms; the one being black, another being brown, and
the third being red; thou shalt die and be dead."
HOW TO CURE A BURN.
Three holy men went out walking,
They did bless the heat and the burning;
They blessed that it might not increase;
They blessed that it might quickly cease!
t t t
TO CURE THE BITE OF A SNAKE.
God has created all things and they were good;
Thou only, serpent, art damned,
Cursed be thou and thy sting.
t t t
Zing, zing, zing!
SECURITY AGAINST MAD DOGS.
Dog, hold thy nose to the ground,
God has made me and thee, hound!
t t t
This you must repeat in the direction of the dog; and the
three crosses you must make toward the dog, and the words
must be spoken before he sees you.
TO REMOVE PAIN AND HEAL UP WOUNDS WITH THREE
SWITCHES.
With this switch and Christ's dear blood,
I banish your pain and do you good!
t t t
Mind it well: you must in one cut, sever from a tree, a
young branch pointing toward sunrise, and then make three
pieces of it, which you successively put in the wound. Hold
ing them in your hand, you take the one toward your right
side first. Everything prescribed in this book must be used
three times, even if the three crosses should not be affixed.
24 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN'S POW-WOWS
Words are always to have an interval of half an hour, and
between the second and third time should pass a whole night,
except where it is otherwise directed. The above three sticks,
after the end of each has been put into the wound as be
fore directed, must be put in a piece of white paper, and
placed where they will be warm and dry.
REMEDY FOR FEVER, WORMS, AND THE COLIC.
Jerusalem, thou Jewish city,
In which Christ our Lord, was born,
Thou shalt turn into water and blood,
Because it is for [name] fever, worms, and colic good.
HOW TO CURE WEAKNESS OF THE LIMBS.
Take the buds of the birch tree, or the inner bark of
the root of the tree at the time of the budding of the birch,
and make a tea of it, and drink it occasionally through the
day. Yet, after having used it for two weeks, it must be
discontinued for a while, before it is resorted to again; and
during the two weeks of its use it is well at times to use
water for a day instead of the tea.
ANOTHER REMEDY FOR 'WEAKNESS.
Take Bittany and St. John's wort, and put them in good
old rye whiskey. To drink some of this in the morning
before having taken anything else, is very wholesome and
good. A tea made of the acorns of the white oak is very
good for weakness of the limbs.
TO MAKE HORSES THAT REFUSE THEIR FEED TO EAT AGAIN
ESPECIALLY APPLICABLE WHEN THEY ARE AFFLICTED
IN THIS MANNER ON THE PUBLIC ROADS.
Open the jaws of the horse, which refuses his feed, and
knock three times on his palate. This will certainly cause
the horse to eat again without hesitation and to go along
willingly.
A GOOD METHOD OF DESTROYING RATS AND MICE.
Every time you bring grain into your barn, you must, in
putting down the three first sheaves, repeat the following
words: "Rats and mice, these three sheaves I give to you,
in order that you may not destroy any of my wheat." The
name of the kind of grain must also be mentioned.
TO CURE ANY EXCRESCENCE OR WEN ON A HORSE.
Take any bone which you accidentally find, for you dare
not be looking for it, and rub the wen of the horse with
it, always bearing in mind that it must be done in the dc
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 25
creasing moon, and the wen will certainly disappear. The
bone, however, must be replaced as it was lying before.
HOW TO PREPARE A GOOD EYE-WATER.
Take one cunce of white vitriol and one ounce of sugar
of lead, dissolve them in oil of rosemary, and put it in a quart
bottle, which you fill up with rose-water. Bathe the eyes
with it night and morning.
HOW TO CAUSE MALE OR FEMALE THIEVES TO STAND STILL,
WITHOUT BEING ABLE TO MOVE BACKWARD OR FORWARD.
In using any prescriptions of this book in regard to making
others stand still, it is best to be walking about; and repeat
the following three times:
"Oh Peter, oh Peter, borrow the power from God; what
I shall bind with the bands of a Christian hand, shall be
bound; all male and female thieves, be they great or small,
young or old, shall be spell-bound, by the power of God,
and not be abe to walk forward or backward until I see
them with my eyes, and give them leave with my tongue,
except it be that they count for me all the stones that may
be between heaven and earth, all rain-drops, all the leaves
and all the grasses in the world. This I pray for the re
pentance of my enemies." t t t
Repeat your articles of faith and the Lord's Prayer.
If the thieves are to remain alive, the sun dare not shine
upon them before their release. There are two ways of re
leasing them, which will be particularly stated: The first
is this, that you tell them, in the name of St. John, to leave;
the other is as follows: "The words which have bound thee
shall give thee free." t t t
TO CURE THE SWEENEY IN HORSES.
Take a piece of old bacon, and cut it into small pieces,
put them in a pan and roast them well, put a handful of
fish-worms, a gill of oats and three spoonfuls of salt into
it; roast the whole of this until it turns black, and then filter
it through a cloth; after which you put a gill of soft soap,
half a gill of rye whiskey, half a gill of vinegar, and half
a pint of rain-water to it; mix it well, and smear it over
the part affected with sweeney on the third, sixth, and the
ninth day of the new moon, and warm it with an oaken
board.
HOW TO MAKE MOLASSES.
Take pumpkins, boil them, press the juice out of them,
and boil the juice to a proper consistence. There is nothing
26 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-VOWS
else necessary. The author of this book, John George Hoh-
man, has tasted this molasses, thinking it was the genuine
kind, until the people of the house told him what it was.
TO MAKE GOOD BEER.
Take a handful of hops, five or six gallons of water, about
three tablespoonfuls of ginger, half a gallon of molasses;
filter the water, hops and ginger into a tub containing the
molasses.
CURE FOR THE EPILEPSY.
Take a turtle dove, cut its throat, and let the person af
flicted with epilepsy, drink the blood.
ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE CATTLE RETURN HOME.
Feed your cattle out of a pot or kettle used in preparing
your dinner, and they will always return to your stable.
A VERY GOOD REMEDY TO CURE SORES.
Boil the bulbs (roots) of the white lily in cream, and put
it on the sore in the form of a plaster. Southern-wort has
the same effect.
A GOOD CURE FOR WOUNDS.
Take the bones of a calf, and burn them until they turn
to powder, and then strew it into the wound. The powder
prevents the flesh from putrefying, and is therefore of great
importance in healing the wound.
TO MAKE AN OIL OUT OF PAPER, WHICH IS GOOD FOR
SORE EYES.
A man from Germany informed me that to burn two
sheets of white paper would produce about three drops of
oil or water, which would heal all sores in or about the eye
if rubbed with it. Any affection of the eyes can be cured
in this way, as long as the apple of the eye is sound.
TO DESTROY CRAB-LICE.
Take capuchin powder, mix it with hog's lard, and smear
yourself with it. Or boil cammock, and wash the place where
the lice keep themselves.
TO PREVENT THE WORST KIND OF PAPER FROM BLOTTING.
Dissolve alum in water, and put it on the paper, and I,
Hohman, would like to see who cannot write on it, when
it is dried.
A VERY GOOD REMEDY FOR THE GRAVEL.
The author of this book, John George Hohman, applied
this remedy, and soon felt relieved. I knew a man who could
find no relief from the medicine of any doctor; he then used
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 27
the following remedy, to wit: he ate every morning seven
peach-stones before tasting anything else, which relieved him
very much; but as he had the gravel very bad, he was obliged
to use it constantly. I, Hohman, have used it for several
weeks. I still feel a touch of it now and then, yet I had it
so badly that I cried out aloud every time that I had to
make water. I owe a thousand thanks to God and the per
son who told me of this remedy.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR THOSE WHO CANNOT KEEP
THEIR WATER.
Burn a hog's bladder to powder, and take it inwardly.
TO REMOVE A WEN DURING THE CRESCENT MOON.
Look over the wen, directly towards the moon, and say
"Whatever grows, does grow; and whatever diminishes, does
diminish." This must be said three times in the same breath.
TO DESTROY FIELD-MICE AND MOLES.
Put unslacked lime in their holes and they will disappear.
TO REMOVE A SCUM OR SKIN FROM THE EYE.
Before sunrise on St. Bartholomew's Day, you must dig
up four or five roots of the dandelion weed, taking good
care to get the ends of the roots; then you must procure
a rag and a thread that have never been in the water; the
thread, which dare not have a single knot in it, is used in
sewing up the roots into the rag, and the whole is then to
be hung before the eye until the scum disappears. The tape
by which it if fastened must never have been in the water.
FOR DEAFNESS, ROARING OR BUZZING IN THE EAR, AND
FOR TOOTHACHE.
A few drops of refined camphor-oil put upon cotton, and
thus applied to the aching tooth, relieves very much. When
put in the ear it strengthens the hearing and removes the
roaring and whizzing in the same.
A GOOD WAY TO CAUSE CHILDREN TO CUT THEIR TEETH
WITHOUT PAIN.
Boil the brain of a rabbit and rub the gums of the children
with it, and their teeth will grow without pain to them.
FOR VOMITING AND DIARRHOEA.
Take pulverized cloves and eat them together with bread
soaked in red wine, and you will soon find relief. The cloves
may be put upon the bread.
28 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
TO HEAL BURNS.
Pound or press the juice of male fern, and put it on the
burnt spots and they will heal very fast. Better yet, how
ever, if you smear the above juice upon a rag, and put it on
like a plaster.
A VERY GOOD CURE FOR WEAKNESS OF THE LIMBS, FOR THE
PURIFICATION OF THE BLOOD, FOR THE INVIGORATION
OF THE HEAD AND HEART, AND TO REMOVE GIDDINESS,
ETC.
Take two drops of oil of cloves in a tablespoonful of white
wine early in the morning, and before eating anything else.
This is also good for the mother-pains and the colic. The
oil of cloves which you buy in the drug stores will answer
the purpose. These remedies are also applicable to cure the
cold when it settles in the bowels, and to stop vomiting.
A few drops of this oil poured upon cotton and applied to
the aching teeth, relieves the pain.
FOR DYSENTERY AND DIARRHCEA.
Take the moss off of trees, and boil it in red wine, and
let those who are affected with those diseases drink it.
CURE FOR THE TOOTHACHE.
Hohman, the author of this book, has cured the severest
toothache more than sixty times, with this remedy, and,
out of the sixty times he applied it, it failed but once in
effecting a cure. Take blue vitriol and put a piece of it in
the hollow tooth, yet not too much; spit out the water
that collects in the mouth, and be careful to swallow none. I
do not know whether it is good for teeth that are not hol
low, but I should judge it would cure any kind of toothache.
ADVICE TO PREGNANT WOMEN.
Pregnant women must be very careful not to use any
camphor; and no camphor should be administered to those
women who have the mother-fits.
CURE FOR THE BITE OF A MAD DOG.
A certain Mr. Valentine Kittering, of Dauphin County,
has communicated to the Senate of Pennsylvania a sure
remedy for the bite of any kind of mad animals. He says
that his ancestors had already used it in Germany 250 years
ago, and that he had always found it to answer the purpose,
during a residence of fifty years in the United States. He
only published it from motives of humanity. This remedy
consists in a weed called Chick-weed. It is a summer plant.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 29
known to the Germans and Swiss by the names of Gauch-
neil, Rothea Meyer, or Rother Huehnerdarm. In England it
is called Red Pimpernel; and its botanical name is Angelica
Phonicea. It must be gathered in June when in full bloom
and dried in the shade, and then pulverized. The dose of
this for a grown person is a small tablespoonful, or in weight
a drachm and a scruple, at once, in beer or water. For
children the dose is the same, yet it must be administered at
three different times. In applying it to animals, it must be
used green, cut to pieces and mixed with bran or other
feed. For the hogs the pulverized weed is made into little
balls by mixing it with flour and water. It can also be put
on bread and butter, or in honey, molasses, etc. The Rev.
Henry Muhlenberg says that in Germany 30 grains of this
powder are given four times a day, the first day, then one
dose a day for a whole week; while at the same time the
wound is washed out with a decoction of the weed, and then
the powder strewed in it. Mr. Kittering says that he in all
instances administered but one dose, with the most happy
results. This is said to be the same remedy through which
the late Doctor William Stoy effected so many cures.
A VERY GOOD MEANS TO INCREASE THE GROWTH OF WOOL
ON SHEEP, AND TO PREVENT DISEASE AMONG THEM.
William Ellis, in his excellent work on the English man
ner of raising sheep, relates the following: I know a tenant
who had a flock of sheep that produced an unusual quantity
of wool. He informed me that he was in the habit of wash
ing his sheep with buttermilk just after shearing them,
which was the cause of the unusual growth of wool; because
it is a known fact that buttermilk does not only improve
the growth of sheep's wool, but also of the hair of other
animals. Those who have no buttermilk may substitute
common milk, mixed with salt and water, which will answer
nearly as well to wash the sheep just sheared. And I guar
antee that by rightly applying this means, you will not only
have a great increase of wool, but the sheep-lice and their
entire brood will be destroyed. It also cures all manner of
scab and itch, and prevents them from taking cold.
A WELL-TRIED PLASTER TO REMOVE MORTIFICATION.
Take six hen's eggs and boil them in hot ashes until they
are right hard; then take the yellow of the eggs and fry
them in a gill of lard until they are quite black; then put
a handful of rue with it, and afterward filter it through
a cloth. When this is done add a gill of sweet oil to it.
30 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
It will take most effect where the plaster for a female is
prepared by a male, and the plaster for a male prepared by
a female.
A GOOD REMEDY FOR THE POLL-EVIL IN HORSES.
Take white turpentine, rub it over the poll-evil with your
hand, and then melt it with a hot iron, so that it runs into
the wound. After this take neatsfoot oil or goose grease and
rub it into the wound in the same manner, and for three
days in succession, commencing on the last Friday of the
last quarter of the moon.
FOR THE SCURVY AND SORE THROAT.
Speak the following, and it will certainly help you: Job
went through the land, holding his staff close in the hand,
when God the Lord did meet him, and said to him: Job,
what are thou grieved at? Job said: Oh God, why should
I not be sad? My throat and my mouth are rotting away.
Then said the Lord to Job: In yonder valley there is a well
which will cure thee [name], and thy mouth, and thy throat,
in the name of God the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
This must be spoken three times in the morning and three
times in the evening; and where it reads "which will cure,"
you must blow three times in the child's mouth.
A VERY GOOD PLASTER.
Take wormwood, rue, medels, sheeprip-wort, pointy plan
tain, in equal proportions, a larger proportion of bees'-wax
and tallow, and some spirits of turpentine; put it together
in a pot, boil it well, and then strain it, and you have a very
good plaster.
TO STOP BLEEDING.
I walk through a green forest;
There I find three wells, cool and cold;
The first is called courage,
The second is called good,
And the third is called stop the blood.
t t t
ANOTHER WAY TO STOP BLEEDING, AND TO HEAL WOUNDS
IN MAN AS WELL AS ANIMALS.
On Christ's grave there grows three roses; the first is
kind, the second is valued among the rulers, and the third
says: blood, thou must stop, and wound, thou must heal.
Everything prescribed for man in this book is also applicable
to animals.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 31
FOR GAINING A LAWFUL SUIT.
It reads, if anyone has to settle any just claim by way of
a law suit let him take some of the largest kind of sage and
write the name of the twelve apostles on the leaves, and put
them in his shoes before entering the courthouse, and he shall
certainly gain the suit.
FOR THE SWELLING OF CATTLE.
To Desh break no Flesh, but to Desh! While saying this,
run your hand along the back of the animal. t t t
Note. —The hand must be put upon the bare skin in all
cases of using sympathetic words.
AN EASY METHOD OF CATCHING FISH.
In a vessel of white glass must be put: 8 grains of civit,
(musk), and as much castorium; two ounces of eel-fat, and
4 ounces of unsalted butter; after which the vessel must
be well closed, and put in some place where it will keep mod
erately warm for nine or ten days, and then the composition
must be well stirred with a stick until it is perfectly mixed.
Application. —1. In using the hooks. —Worms or in
sects used for baiting the hooks must first be moistened with
this composition, and then put in a bladder or box, which
may be carried in the pocket.
2. In using the net.—Small balls formed of the soft part
of fresh bread must be dipped in this composition and then
by means of thread fastened inside of the net before throw
ing it into the water.
3. Catching Fish with the Hands. —Besmear your legs or
boots with this composition before entering the water at the
place where the fish are expected, and they will collect in
great numbers around you.
A VERY GOOD AND SAFE REMEDY FOR RHEUMATISM.
From one to two dollars have often been paid for this
recipe alone, it being the best and surest remedy to cure
the rheumatism. Let it be known therefore: Take a piece
of cloth, some tape and thread, neither of which must ever
have been in water; the thread must not have a single knot
in it, and the cloth and tape must have been spun by a
child not quite or at least not more than seven years of age.
The letter given below must be carefully sewed in the piece
of cloth, and tied around the neck, unbeshrewdly, on the first
Friday in the decreasing moon; and immediately after hang
ing it around the neck, the Lord's prayer and the articles
of faith must be repeated. What now follows must be writ
ten in the before-mentioned letter:
32 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
"May God the Father, Son and Holy Ghost grant it, Amen.
Seek immediately, and seek; thus commandeth the Lord thy
God, through the first man whom God did love upon earth.
Seek immediately, and seek; thus -commandeth the Lord thy
God, through Luke, the Evangelist, and through Paul, the
Apostle. Seek immediately, and seek; thus commandeth the
Lord thy God, through the twelve messengers. Seek im
mediately, and seek; thus commandeth the Lord thy God
by the first man that God might be loved. Seek immediately,
and convulse; thus commandeth the Lord thy God, through
the Holy Fathers, who have been made by divine and holy
writ. Seek immediately, and convulse; thus commandeth
the Lord thy God, through the dear and holy angels, and
through his paternal and divine Omnipotence, and his heav
enly confidence and endurance. Seek immediately, and con
vulse; thus commandeth the Lord thy God, through the burn
ing oven which was preserved by the blessing of God. Seek
immediately, and convulse; thus commandeth the Lord thy
God, through all power and might, through the prophet
Jonah who was preserved in the belly of the whale for three
days and three nights, by the blessing of God. Seek im
mediately and convulse; thus commandeth the Lord thy
God, through all the power and might which proceed from
divine humility, and in all-eternity; whereby no harm be
done unto t N t nor unto any part of his body be they
the ravenous convulsions, or the yellow convulsions, or the
white convulsions, or the red convulsions, or the black con
vulsions, or by whatever name convulsions may be called;
these all shall do no harm unto thee t N t nor unto any
part of thy body, nor to thy head, nor to thy neck, nor
to thy heart, nor to thy stomach, nor to any of thy veins,
nor to thy arms, nor to thy legs, nor to thy eyes, nor to
thy tongue, nor to any part or parcel of thy body. This
I write for thee t N t m these words, and in the name
of God the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. Amen. God bless
it. Amen."
Notice.—If anyone write such a letter for another, the
Christian name of the person must be mentioned in it; as
you will observe, where the N stands singly in the above
letter, there must be the name.
A GOOD WAY TO DESTROY WORMS IN BEE-HIVES.
With very little trouble and at an expense of a quarter-
dollar, you can certainly free your bee-hives from worms for
a whole year. Get from an apothecary store the powder
called Pensses Blum, which will not injure the bees in the
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 33
least. The application of it is as follows: For one bee-hive
you take as much of this powder as the point of your knife
will hold, mix it with one ounce of good whiskey, and put
it in a common vial; then make a hole in the bee-hive and
pour it in thus mixed with the whiskey, which is sufficient
for one hive at once. Make the hole so that it can be easily
poured in. As said before, a quarter dollar's worth of this
powder is enough for one hive.
RECIPE FOR MAKING A PASTE TO PREVENT GUN-BARRELS
FROM RUSTING, WHETHER IRON OR STEEL.
Take an ounce of bear's fat, half an ounce of badger's
grease, half an ounce of snake's fat, one ounce of almond
oil, and a quarter of an ounce of pulverized indigo, and melt
it altogether in a new vessel over a fire, stir it well, and
put it afterward into some vessel. In using it, a lump as
large as a common nut must be put upon a piece of woollen
cloth and then rubbed on the barrel and lock of the gun,
and it will keep the barrel from rusting.
TO MAKE A WICK WHICH IS NEVER CONSUMED.
Take an ounce of asbestos and boil it in a quart of strong
lye for two hours; then pour off the lye and clarify what
remains by pouring rain-water on it three or four times,
after which you can form a wick from it which will never
be consumed by the fire.
A MORNING PRAYER TO BE SPOKEN BEFORE STARTING ON
A JOURNEY, WHICH WILL SAVE THE PERSON FROM
ALL MISHAPS.
I (here the name is to be pronounced) will go on a jour
ney today; I will walk upon God's way, and walk where
God himself did walk, and our dear Lord Jesus Christ, and
our dearest Virgin with her dear little babe, with her seven
rings and her true things. Oh, thou! my dear Lord Jesus
Christ, I am thine own, that no dog may bite me, no wolf
bite me, and no murder secretly approach me; save me, O
my God, from sudden death! I am in God's hands, and
there I will bind myself. In God's hands I am by our Lord
Jesus' five wounds, that any gun or other arms may not
do me any more harm than the virginity of our Holy Virgin
Mary was injured by the favor of her beloved Jesus. After
this say three Lord's prayers, the Ave Maria, and the articles
of faith.
34 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
A SAFE AND APPROVED MEANS TO BE APPLIED IN CASES OF
FIRE AND PESTILENCE.
Welcome, thou fiery fiend! do not extend further than
thou already hast. This I count unto thee as a repentant
act, in the name of God the Father, the Son and the Holy
Ghost.
I command unto thee, fire, by the power of God, which
createth and worketh everything, that thou now do cease,
and not extend any further as certainly as Christ was stand
ing on the Jordan's stormy banks, being baptized by John
the holy man.
This I count unto thee as a repentant act in the name of
the holy Trinity.
I command unto thee, fire, by the power of God, now
to abate thy flames; as certainly as Mary retained her vir
ginity before all ladies who retained theirs, so chaste and
pure; therefore, fire, cease thy wrath.
This I count unto thee as a repentant act in the name of
the holy Trinity.
I command unto thee fire, to abate thy heat, by the pre
cious blood of Jesus Christ, which he has shed for us, and
our sins and transgressions.
This I count unto thee, fire, as a repentant act, in the name
of God the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost.
Jesus of Nazareth, a king of the Jews, help us from this
dangerous fire, and guard this land and its bounds from all
epidemic disease and pestilence.
Remarks. —This has been discovered by a Christian Gypsy
King of Egypt. Anno 1740, on the 10th of June, six gypsies
were executed on the gallows in the kingdom of Prussia. The
seventh of their party was a man of eighty years of age and
was to be executed by the sword on the 16th of the same
month. But fortunately for him, quite unexpectedly, a con
flagration broke out, and the. old Gypsy was taken to the fire
to try his arts, which he successfully did to the great surprise
of all present, by bespeaking the conflagration in a manner
that it wholly or entirely ceased and disappeared in less than
ten minutes. Upon this, the proof having been given in day
time, he received pardon and was set at liberty. This was
confirmed and attested by the government of the King of
Prussia, and the General Superintendent at Kcenigsberg, and
given to the public in print. It was first published at Kcenigs
berg in Prussia, by Alexander Bausman, Anno 174 5.
Whoever has this letter in his house will be free from all
danger of fire, as well as from lightning. If a pregnant wo
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 35
man carries this letter about her, neither enchantment nor evil
spirits can injure her or her child. Further, if anybody has
this letter in his house, or carries it about his person, he will
be safe from the injuries of pestilence.
While saying these sentences, one must pass three times
around the fire. This has availed in all instances.
TO PREVENT CONFLAGRATION.
Take a black chicken, in the morning or evening, cut its
head off and throw it upon the ground; cut its stomach out,
yet leave it altogether; then try to get a piece of a shirt
which was worn by a chaste virgin during her terms, and
cut out a piece as large as a common dish from that part
which is bloodiest. These two things wrap up together, then
try to get an egg which was laid on maunday Thursday.
These three things put together in wax; then put them
in a pot holding eight quarts, and bury it under the thresh
old of your house, with the aid of God, and as long as there
remains a single stick of your house together, no conflagra
tion will happen. If your house should happen to be on fire
already in front and behind, the fire will nevertheless do no
injury to you nor to your children. This is done by the
power of God, and is quite certain and infallible. If fire
should break out unexpectedly, then try to get a whole shirt
in which your servant-maid had her terms or a sheet on
which a child was born, and throw it into the fire, wrapped
up in a bundle, and without saying anything. This will
certainly stop it.
TO PREVENT WITCHES FROM BEWITCHING CATTLE, TO BE
WRITTEN AND PLACED IN THE STABLE; AND AGAINST
BAD MEN AND EVIL SPIRITS WHICH NIGHTLY TORMENT
OLD AND YOUNG PEOPLE, TO BE WRITTEN AND PLACED
ON THE BEDSTEAD.
"Trotter Head, I forbid thee my house and premises; I
forbid thee my horse and cow-stable; I forbid thee my bed
stead, that thou mayest not breathe upon me; breathe into
some other house, until thou hast ascended every hill, until
thou hast counted every fence-post, and until thou hast
crossed every water. And thus dear day may come again
into my house, in the name of God the Father, the Son, and
the Holy Ghost. Amen."
This will certainly protect and free all persons and ani
mals from witchcraft.
36 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
TO EXTINGUISH FIRE WITHOUT WATER.
Write the following words on each side of a plate, and
throw it into the fire, and it will be extinguished forthwith:
S A T O R
A R E P O
TENET
OPERA
ROTAS
TO PREVENT BAD PEOPLE FROM GETTING ABOUT THE CATTLE
Take wormwood, gith, five-finger weed, and assafoetida;
three cents' worth of each; the straw of horse beans, some
dirt swept together behind the door of the stable and a little
salt. Tie these all up together with a tape, and put the
bundle in a hole about the threshold over which your cattle
pass in and out, and cover it well with lignum-vita: wood.
This will certainly be of use.
ANOTHER METHOD OF STOPPING FIRE.
Our dear Sarah journeyed through the land, having a
fiery hot brand in her hand. The fiery brand heats; the
fiery brand sweats. Fiery brand, stop your heat; fiery brand,
stop your sweat.
HOW TO FASTEN OR SPELL-BIND ANYTHING.
You say, "Christ's cross and Christ's crown, Christ Jesus'
colored blood, be thou every hour good. God, the Father,
is before me; God, the Son, is beside me; God, the Holy
Ghost, is behind me. Whoever now is stronger than these
three persons may come, by day or night, to attack me."
t t t
Then say the Lord's prayer three times.
ANOTHER WAY OF FASTENING OR SPELL-BINDING.
After repeating the above, you speak, "At every step
may Jesus walk with [name]. He is my head; I am his limb;
therefore, Jesus, be with [name].
A BENEDICTION TO PREVENT FIRE.
"The bitter sorrows and the death of our dear Lord Jesus
Christ shall prevail. Fire and wind and great heat and all
that is within the power of these elements, I command thee,
through the Lord Jesus Christ, who has spoken to the winds
and the waters, and they obeyed him. By these powerful
words spoken by Jesus, I command, threaten, and inform
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 37
thee, fire, flame, and heat, and your powers as elements, to
flee forthwith. The holy, rosy blood of our dear Lord Jesus
Christ may rule it. Thou, fire, and wind, and great heat, I
command thee, as the Lord did, by his holy angels, command
the great heat in the firey oven to leave those three holy
men, Shadrack and his companions, Meshach and Abednego,
untouched, which was done accordingly. Thus thou shalt
abate, thou fire, flame, and great heat, the Almighty God
having spoken in creating the four elements, together with
heaven and earth; Fiat! Fiat! Fiat! that is: It shall be in
the name of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
HOW TO RELIEVE PERSONS OR ANIMALS AFTER BEING
BEWITCHED.
Three false tongues have bound thee, three holy tongues
have spoken for thee. The first is God the Father, the second
is God the Son, and the third is God the Holy Ghost. They
will give you blood and flesh, peace and comfort. Flesh and
blood are grown upon thee, born on thee, and lost on thee.
If any man trample on thee with his horse, God will bless
thee, and the holy Ciprian; has any woman trampled on
thee, God and the body of Mary shall bless thee; if any
servant has given you trouble, I bless thee through God and
the laws of heaven; if any servant-maid or woman has led
you astray, God and the heavenly constellations shall bless
thee. Heaven is above thee, the earth is beneath thee, and
thou art between. I bless thee against all tramplings by
horses. Our dear Lord Jesus Christ walked about in his bit
ter afflictions and death; and all the Jews that had spoken and
promised, trembled in their falsehoods and mockery. Look,
now trembleth the Son of God, as if he had the itch, said
the Jews. And then spake Jesus: I have not the itch and
no one shall have it. Whoever will assist me to carry the
cross, him will I free from the itch, in the name of God
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.
TO PROTECT HOUSES AND PREMISES AGAINST SICKNESS
AND THEFT.
Ito, alto Massa Dandi Bando, III. Amen.
J. R. N. R. J.
Our Lord Jesus Christ stepped into the hall, and the Jews
searched him everywhere. Thus shalt those who now speak
evil of me with their false tongues, and contend against me,
one day bear sorrows, be silenced, dumbstruck, intimi
38 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
dated, and abused, forever and ever, by the glory of God.
The glory of God shall assist me in this. Do thou aid me
J. J. J. forever and ever. Amen.
AGAINST DANGERS AND MISHAPS IN THE HOUSE.
Sanct Matheus, Sanct Marcus, Sanct Lucas, Sanct Johannis.
A DIRECTION FOR A GYPSY SENTENCE, TO BE CARRIED ABOUT
THE PERSON AS A PROTECTION UNDER ALL CIRCUM
STANCES.
Like unto the prophet Jonas, as a type of Christ, who was
guarded for three days and three nights in the belly of a
whale, thus shall the Almighty God, as a Father, guard and
protect me from all evil. J. J. J.
AGAINST EVIL SPIRITS AND ALL MANNER OF WITCHCRAFT.
I.
N. I. R.
I.
SANCTUS SPIRITUS.
I.
N. I. R.
I.
All this be guarded here in time, and there in eternity.
Amen.
You must write all the above on a piece of white paper
and carry it about you. The characters or letters above sig
nify: "God bless me here in time, and there eternally."
AGAINST SWELLINGS.
"Three pure virgins went out on a journey to inspect
a swelling and sickness. The first one said, It is hoarse. The
second said, It is not. The third said, If it is not, then will
our Lord Jesus Christ come." This must be spoken in the
name of the Holy Trinity.
HOW TO TREAT A COW AFTER THE MILK IS TAKEN FROM HER.
Give to the cow three spoonfuls of her last milk, and say
to the spirits in her blood: "Ninny has done it, and I have
swallowed her in the name of God the Father, the Son, and
the Holy Ghost. Amen." Pray what you choose at the
same time.
AGAINST ADVERSITD2S AND ALL MANNER OF CONTENTION.
Power, hero, Prince of Peace, J. J. J.
AGAINST DANGER AND DEATH, TO BE CARRIED ABOUT THE
PERSON.
I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he will call me
from the grave, etc.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 39
ANOTHER METHOD OF TREATING A SICK COW.
J. The cross of Jesus Christ poured out milk;
J. The cross of Jesus Christ poured out water;
J. The cross of Jesus Christ has poured them out.
These lines must be written on three pieces of white pa
per; then take the milk of the sick cow and these three pieces
of paper, put them in a pot, and scrape a little of the skull
of a criminal; close it well, and put it over a hot fire, and
the witch will have to die. If you take the three pieces of
paper, with the writing on them, in your mouth and go
out before your house, speak three times, and then give them
to your cattle, you shall not only see all the witches, but
your cattle will also get well again.
AGAINST THE FEVER.
Pray early in the morning, and then turn your shirt around
the left sleeve, and say: Turn, thou, shirt, and thou, fever,
do likewise turn. (Do not forget to mention the name of
the person having the fever) . This, I tell thee, for thy re
pentance sake, in the name of God the Father, the Son, and
the Holy Ghost. Amen. If you repeat this for three suc
cessive mornings the fever will disappear.
TO SPELL-BIND A THIEF SO THAT HE CANNOT STIR.
This benediction must be spoken on a Thursday morn
ing, before sunrise and in the open air:
"Thus shall rule it, God the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Ghost. Amen. Thirty-three Angels speak to each
other coming to administer in company with Mary. Then
spoke dear Daniel, the holy one: Trust, my dear woman, I
see some thieves coming who intend stealing your dear babe;
this I cannot conceal from you. Then spake our dear Lady
to Saint Peter: I have bound with a band, through Christ's
hand; therefore, my thieves are bound even by the hand of
Christ, if they wish to steal mine own, in the house, in the
chest, upon the meadow or fields, in the woods, in the orchard,
in the vineyard, or in the garden, or wherever they intend
to steal. Our dear Lady said: Whoever chooses may steal;
yet if anyone does steal, he shall stand like a buck, he shall
stand like a stake, and shall count all the stones upon the
earth, and all the stars in the heavens. Thus I give thee
leave, and command every spirit to be master over every
thief, by the guardianship of Saint Daniel, and by the bur
den of this world's goods. And the countenance shall be
unto thee, that thou canst not move from the spot, as long
40 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
as my tongue in the flesh shall not give thee leave. This
I command thee by the Holy Virgin Mary, the Mother of
God, by the power and might by which he has created
heaven and earth, by the host of all the angels, and by all
the saints of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
Amen." If you wish to set the thief free, you must tell
him to leave in the name of St. John.
ANOTHER WAY TO SPELL-BTND THIEVES.
Ye thieves, I conjure you, to be obedient like Jesus Christ,
who obeyed his Heavenly Father unto the cross, and to stand
without moving out of my sight, in the name of the Trinity.
I command you by the power of God and the incarnation
of Jesus Christ, not to move out of my sight, t t t 'ike
Jesus Christ was standing on Jordan's stormy banks to be
baptized by John. And furthermore, I conjure you, horse
and rider, to stand still and not to move out of my sight,
like Jesus Christ did stand when he was about to be nailed
to the cross to release the fathers of the church from the
bonds of hell. Ye thieves, I bind you with the same bonds
with which Jesus our Lord has bound hell; and thus ye
shall be bound; t t t and tne same words that bind you
shall also release you.
TO EFFECT THE SAME IN LESS TIME.
Thou horseman and footman, you are coming under your
hats; you are scattered! With the blood of Jesus Christ,
with his five holy wounds, thy barrel, thy gun, and thy
pistol are bound; sabre, sword, and knife are enchanted and
bound, in the name of God the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Ghost. Amen.
This must be spoken three times.
TO RELEASE SPELL-BOUND PERSONS.
You horseman and footman, whom I here conjure at this
time, you may pass on in the name of Jesus Christ, through
the word of God and the will of Christ; ride ye now and
pass.
TO COMPEL A THIEF TO RETURN STOLEN GOODS.
Early in the morning before sunrise you must go to a
pear tree, and take with you three nails out of a coffin, or
three horse-shoe nails that were never used, and holding
these toward the rising sun, you must say:
"Oh, thief, I bind you by the first nail, which I drive
into thy skull and thy brain, to return the goods thou hast
stolen to their former place; thou shalt feel as sick and as
anxious to see men, and to see the place you stole from, as
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 41
felt the disciple Judas after betraying Jesus. I bind thee by
the other nail, which I drive into your lungs and liver, to
return the stolen goods to their former place; thou shall
feel as sick and as anxious to see men, and to see the place
you have stolen from, as did Pilate in the fires of hell. The
third nail I shall drive into thy foot, oh thief, in order that
thou shalt return the stolen goods to the very same place
from which thou hast stolen them. Oh, thief, I bind thee
and compel thee, by the three holy nails which were driven
through the hands and feet of Jesus Christ, to return the
stolen goods to the very same place from which thou hast
stolen them. t t t The three nails, however, must be
greased with the grease from an executed criminal or other
sinful person.
A BENEDICTION FOR ALL PURPOSES.
Jesus, I will arise; Jesus, do thou accompany me; Jesus,
do thou lock my heart into thine, and let my body and my
soul be commended unto thee. The Lord is crucified. May
God guard my senses that evil spirits may not overcome me,
in the name of God the Father, Son, and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
TO WIN EVERY GAME ONE ENGAGES IN.
Tie the heart of a bat with a red silken string to the right
arm, and you will win every game at cards you play.
AGAINST BURNS.
Our dear Lord Jesus Christ going on a journey, saw a
firebrand burning; it was Saint Lorenzo stretched out on a
roast. He rendered him assistance and consolation; he lifted
his divine hand and blessed the brand; he stopped it from
spreading deeper and wider. Thus may the burning be blessed
in the name of God the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. Amen.
ANOTHER REMEDY FOR BURNS.
Clear out, brand, but never in; be thou cold or hot, thou
must cease to burn. May God guard thy blood and thy flesh,
thy marrow and thy bones, and every artery, great or small.
They all shall be guarded and protected in the name of God
against inflammation and mortification, in the name of God
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.
A BENEDICTION AGAINST WORMS.
Peter and Jesus went out upon the fields; they ploughed
three furrows, and ploughed up three worms. The one was
white, the other was black, and the third one was red. Now
all the worms are dead, in the name t t t Repeat these words
three times.
42 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
TO BE GIVEN TO CATTLE AGAINST WITCHCRAFT.
S A T O R
A R E P O
TENET
OPERA
ROTAS
This must be written on paper and the cattle made to swal
low it in their feed.
HOW TO TIE UP AND HEAL WOUNDS.
Speak the following: "This wound I tie up in three names,
in order that thou mayest take from it heat, water, falling
off of the flesh, swelling, and all that may be injurious
about the swelling, in the name of the Holy Trinity." This
must be spoken three times; then draw a string three times
around the wound, and put it under the corner of the house
toward the East, and say: "I put thee there, t t t hi order
that thou mayest take unto thyself the gathered water, the
swelling, and the running, and all that may be injurious
about the wound. Amen." Then repeat the Lord's Prayer
and some good hymn.
TO TAKE THE PAIN OUT OF A FRESH WOUND.
Our dear Lord Jesus Christ had a great many biles and
wounds, and yet he never had them dressed. They did not
grow old, they were not cut, nor were they ever found
running. Jonas was blind, and I spoke to the heavenly
child, as true as five holy wounds were inflicted.
AGAINST EVERY EVIL INFLUENCE.
Lord Jesus, thy wounds so red will guard me against death.
TO RETAIN THE RIGHT IN COURT AND COUNCIL.
Jesus Nazarenus, Rex Judeorum.
First carry these characters with you, written on paper,
and then repeat the following words: "I [name] appear be
fore the house of the Judge. Three dead men look out of
the window; one having no tongue, the other having no
lungs, and the third was sick, blind and dumb." This is
intended to be used when you are standing before a court
in your right, and the judge not being favorably disposed
toward you. While on your way to court you must repeat
the benediction already given above.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 43
TO STOP BLEEDING AT ANY TIME.
Write the name of the four principal waters of the whole
world, flowing out of Paradise, on a paper, namely: Pison,
Gihon, Hedekiel and Pheat, and put it on the wound. In the
first book of Moses, the second chapter, verses 11, 12, 13,
you will find them. You will find this effective.
ANOTHER WAY TO STOP BLOOD.
As soon as you cut yourself you must say: "Blessed wound,
blessed hour, blessed be the day on which Jesus Christ was
born, in the name t t t Amen.
ANOTHER SIMILAR PRESCRIPTION.
Breathe three times upon the patient, and say the Lord's
Prayer three times until the words, "upon the earth," and
the bleeding will be stopped.
ANOTHER STILL MORE CERTAIN WAY TO STOP BLEEDING.
If the bleeding will not stop, or if a vein has been cut,
then lay the following on it, and it will stop that hour.
Yet if anyone does not believe this, let him write the letters
upon a knife and stab an irrational animal, and he will not
be able to draw blood. And whosoever carries this about him
will be safe against all his enemies.
I. m. I. K. I. B. I. P. a. x. v. ss. Ss. vas,
I. P. O. unay Lit. Dom. mper vobism.
And whenever a woman is going to give birth to a child,
or is otherwise afflicted, let her have this letter about her
person; it will certainly be of avail.
A PECULIAR SIGN TO KEEP BACK MEN AND ANIMALS.
Whenever you are in danger of being attacked, then carry
this sign with you: "In the name of God, I make the attack.
May it please my Redeemer to assist me. Upon the holy
assistance of God I depend entirely; upon the holy assistance
of God and my gun I rely very truly. God alone be with
us. Blessed be Jesus.
PROTECTION OF ONE'S HOUSE AND HEARTH.
Beneath thy guardianship I am safe against all tempests
and all enemies, J. J. J.
These three J's signify Jesus three times.
A CHARM TO BE CARRIED ABOUT THE PERSON.
Carry these words about you, and nothing can hit you:
Ananiah, Azariah, and Missel, blessed be the Lord, for he has
44 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN'S POW-WOWS
redeemed us from hell, and has saved us from death, and he
has redeemed us out of the fiery furnace, and has preserved
us even in the midst of the fire; in the same manner may
it please him the Lord that there be no fire.
I.
N. I. R.
I.
TO CHARM ENEMIES, ROBBERS AND MURDERERS.
God be with you, brethren; stop, ye thieves, robbers, mur
derers, horsemen, and soldiers, in all humility, for we have
tasted the rosy blood of Jesus. Your rifles and guns will be
stopped up with the holy blood of Jesus; and all swords and
arms are made harmless by the five holy wounds of Jesus.
There are three roses upon the heart of God; the first is
beneficent, the other is omnipotent, the third is his holy
will. You thieves must therefore stand under it, standing
still as long as I will. In the name of God the Father,
Son and Holy Ghost, you are conjured and made to stand.
A CHARM AGAINST FIRE-ARMS.
Jesus passed over the Red Sea, and looked upon the land;
and thus must break all ropes and bands, and thus must
break all manner of fire-arms, rifles, guns, or pistols, and
all false tongues be silenced. May the benediction of God
on creating the first man always be upon me; the benediction
spoken by God, when he ordered in a dream that Joseph
and Mary together with Jesus should flee into Egypt, be
upon me always, and may the holy t he ever lovely and be
loved in my right hand. I journey through the country
at large where no one is robbed, killed or murdered —where
no one can do me an injury, and where not even a dog could
bite me, or any other animal tear me to pieces. In all things
let me be protected, as also my flesh and blood, against sins
and false tongues which reach from the earth up to heaven,
by the power of the four Evangelists, in the name of God
the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost. Amen.
ANOTHER FOR THE SAME.
I [name] conjure ye guns, swords and knives, as well as
all other kinds of arms, by the spear that pierced the side
of God, and opened it so that blood and water could flow
out, that ye do not injure me, a servant of God, in the
t t t- I conjure ye, by Saint Stephen, who was stoned by
the Virgin, that ye cannot injure me who am a servant of
God, in the name of t t t> Amen.
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 45
PROTECTION AGAINST ALL KINDS OF -WEAPONS.
Jesus, God and man, do thou protect me against all man
ner of guns, fire-arms, long or short, of any kind of metal.
Keep thou thy fire, like the Virgin Mary, who kept her fire
both before and after her birth. May Christ bind up all
fire-arms after the manner of his having bound up himself
in humility while in the flesh. Jesus, do thou render harm
less all arms and weapons, like unto the husband of Mary
the mother of God, he having been harmless likewise. Fur
thermore, do thou guard the three holy drops of blood which
Christ sweated on the Mount of Olives. Jesus Christ! do
thou protect me against being killed and against burning
fires. Jesus, do thou not suffer me to be killed, much less
to be damned, without having received the Lord's Supper.
May God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, assist me in this.
Amen.
A CHARM AGAINST SHOOTING, CUTTING OR THRUSTING.
In the name of J. J. J. Amen. I [name]; Jesus Christ
is the true salvation; Jesus Christ governs, reigns, defeats
and conquers every enemy, visible or invisible; Jesus, be thou
with me at all times, forever and ever, upon all roads and
ways, upon the water and the land, on the mountain and in
the valley, in the house and in the yard, in the whole world
wherever I am, stand, run, ride or drive; whether I sleep
or wake, eat or drink, there be thou also, Lord Jesus Christ,
at all times, late and early, every hour, every moment; and
in all my goings in or goings out. Those five holy red
wounds, oh, Lord Jesus Christ, may they guard me against
all fire-arms, be they secret or public, that they cannot in
jure me or do me any harm whatever, in the name of t t t-
May Jesus Christ, with his guardianship and protection,
shield me [name] always from daily commission of sins,
worldly injuries and injustice, from contempt, from pesti
lence and other diseases, from fear, torture, and great suf
fering, from all evil intentions, from false tongues and old
clatter-brains; and that no kind of fire-arms can inflict
any injury to my body, do thou take care of me. t t t-
And that no band of thieves nor Gypsies, highway robbers,
incendiaries, witches and other evil spirits may secretly en
ter my house or premises, nor break in; may the dear Virgin
Mary, and all children who are in heaven with God, in eter
nal joys, protect and guard me against them; and the glory
of God the Father shall strengthen me, the wisdom of God
the Son shall enlighten me, and the grace of God the Holy
46 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
Ghost shall empower me from this hour unto all eternity.
Amen.
TO CHARM GUNS AND OTHER ARMS.
The blessing which came from heaven at the birth of
Christ be with me [name]. The blessing of God at the
creation of the first man be with me; the blessing of Christ
on being imprisoned, bound, lashed, crowned so dreadfully,
and beaten, and dying on the cross, be with me; the blessing
which the Priest spoke over the tender, joyful corpse of our
Lord Jesus Christ, be with me; the constancy of the Holy
Mary and all the saints of God, of the three holy kings,
Casper, Melchoir and Balthasar, be with me; the holy four
Evangelists, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, be with me;
the Archangels St. Michael, St. Gabriel, St. Raphad and St.
Uriel, be with me; the twelve holy messengers of the Pa
triarchs and all the Hosts of Heaven, be with me; and the
inexpressible number of all the Saints be with me. Amen.
Papa, R. tarn, Tetregammate Angen.
Jesus Nazarenus, Rex Judeorum.
TO PREVENT BEING CHEATED, CHARMED OR BEWITCHED, AND
TO BE AT ALL TIMES BLESSED.
Like unto the cup and the wine, and the holy supper,
which our dear Lord Jesus Christ gave unto his dear disciples
on Maunday Thursday, may the Lord Jesus guard me in day
time, and at night, that no dog may bite me, no wild beast
tear me to pieces, no tree fall on me, no water rise against
me, no fire-arms injure me, no weapons, no steel, no iron,
cut me, no fire burn me, no false sentence fall upon me,
no false tongue injure me, no rogue enrage me, and that no
fiends, no witchcraft and enchantment can harm me. Amen.
DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS TO EFFECT THE SAME.
The Holy Trinity guard me, and be and remain with me
on the water and upon the land, in the water or in the
fields, in cities or villages, in the whole world wherever I am.
The Lord Jesus Christ protect me against all my enemies,
secret or public; and may the Eternal Godhead also guard
me through the bitter sufferings of Jesus Christ; his holy
rosy blood, shed on the cross, assist me, J. J. Jesus has been
crucified, tortured and died. These are true words, and in
the same way must all words be efficacious which are here
put down, and spoken in prayer by me. This shall assist
me that I shall not be imprisoned, bound or overcome by
anyone. Before me all guns or other weapons shall be of
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 47
no use or power. Fire-arms, hold your fire in the almighty
hand of God. Thus all fire-arms shall be charmed. t t t-
When the right hand of the Lord Jesus Christ was fastened
to the tree of the cross; like unto the Son of the Heavenly
Father who was obedient unto death, may the Eternal God
head protect me by the rosy blood, by the five holy wounds
on the tree of the cross; and thus must I be blessed and
well protected like the cup and the wine, and the genuine
true bread, which Jesus Christ gave to his disciples on the
evening of Maunday Thursday. J. J. J.
ANOTHER SIMILAR DIRECTION.
The grace of God and his benevolence be with me (N) .
I shall now ride or walk out; and I will gird about my loins
with a sure ring. So it pleases God, the Heavenly Father,
he will protect me, my flesh and blood, and all my arteries
and limbs, during this day and night which I have before
me; and however numerous my enemies might be, they must
be dumbstruck, and all become like a dead man, white as
snow, so that no one will be able to shoot, cut or throw at
me, or to overcome me, although he may hold rifle or steel
against whosoever else evil weapons and arms might be called,
in his hand. My rifle shall go off like the lightning from
heaven, and my sword shall cut like a razor. Then went
our dear lady Mary upon a very high mountain; she looked
down into a very dusky valley and beheld her dear child
standing amidst the Jews, harsh, very harsh, because he was
bound so harsh, because he was bound so hard; and therefore
may the dear Lord Jesus Christ save me from all that is in
jurious to me. t t t Amen.
ANOTHER SIMILAR DIRECTION.
There walk out during this day and night, that thou
mayest not let any of my enemies, or thieves, approach me,
if they do not intend to bring me what was spent from
the holy altar. Because God the Lord Jesus Christ is ascended
into heaven in his living body. O Lord, this is good for me
this day and night. t t t Amen.
ANOTHER ONE LIKE IT.
In the name of God I walk out. God the Father be with
me, and God the Holy Ghost be by my side. Whoever is
stronger than these three persons may approach my body
and my life; yet whoso is not stronger than these three would
much better let me be. J. J. J.
48 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-TOTJ
ANOTHER ONE LIKE IT.
I conjure thee, sword, sabre or knife, that mightest in
jure or harm me, by the priest of all prayers, who had gone
into the temple at Jerusalem, and said: An edged sword shall
pierce your soul that you may not injure me, who am a child
of God.
A VERY EFFECTIVE CHARM.
I [name] conjure thee, sword or knife, as well as all other
weapons, by that spear which pierced Jesus' side, and opened
it to the gushing out of blood and water, that he keep me
from injury as one of the servants of God. t t t Amen.
A VERY SAFE AND RELIABLE CHARM.
The peace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with me [name].
Oh shot, stand still! in the name of the mighty prophets
Agtion and Alias, and do not kill me! oh shot, stop short.
I conjure you by heaven and earth, and by the last judgment,
that you do no harm unto me, a child of God. t t t
A GOOD CHARM AGAINST THIEVES.
There are three lilies standing upon the grave of the Lord
our God; the first one is the courage of God, the other
is the blood of God, and the third one is the will of God.
Stand still, thief! No more than Jesus Christ stepped down
from the cross, no more shalt thou move from this spot;
this I command thee by the four evangelists and elements
of heaven, there in the river, or in the shot, or in the judg
ment, or in the sight. Thus I conjure you by the last judg
ment to stand still and not to move, until I see all the stars
in heaven and the sun rises again. Thus I stop by running
and jumping and command it in the name of t t t- Amen.
This must be repeated three times.
HOW TO RECOVER STOLEN GOODS.
Take good care to notice through which door the thief
passed out, and cut off three small chips from the posts of
that door; then take these three chips to a wagon, unbe-
shrewdly, however; take off one of the wheels and put the
three chips into the stock of the wheel, in the three highest
names, then turn the wheel backwards and say: Thief, thief,
thief! Turn back with the stolen goods; thou art forced
to do it by the Almighty power of God: t t t- God the
Father calls thee back, God the Son turns thee back so that
thou must return, and God the Holy Ghost leads thee back,
until thou arrive at the place from which thou hast stolen.
By the almighty power of God the Father thou must come;
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 49
by the wisdom of God the Son thou hast neither peace nor
quiet until thou hast returned the stolen goods to their
former place; by the grace of God the Holy Ghost thou
must run and jump and canst find no peace or rest until
thou arrivest at the place from which thou hast stolen. God
the Father binds thee, God the Son forces thee, and God the
Holy Ghost turns thee back. (You must not turn the
wheel too fast). Thief, thou must come, t t t thief, thou
must come, t t t thief, thou must come, t t t. If thou
are more almighty, thief, thief, thief; if thou are more al
mighty than God himself, then you may remain where you
are. The ten commandments force thee — thou shalt not
steal, and therefore thou must come. t t t Amen.
A WELL-TRIED CHARM.
Three holy drops of blood have passed down the holy
cheeks of the Lord God, and these three holy drops of blood
are placed before the touchhole. As surely as our dear lady
was pure from all men, as surely shall no fire or smoke pass
out of this barrel. Barrel, do thou give neither fire, nor
flame, nor heat. Now I will walk out, because the Lord
God goeth before me; God the Son is with me, and God
the Holy Ghost is about me forever.
ANOTHER WELL-TRIED CHARM AGAINST FIRE-ARMS.
Blessed is the hour in which Jesus Christ was born; blessed
is the hour in which Jesus Christ was born; blessed is the
hour in which Jesus Christ was born; blessed is the hour
in which Jesus Christ has arisen from the dead; blessed are
these three hours over they gun, that no shot or ball shall
fly toward me, and neither my skin, nor my hair, nor my
blood, nor my flesh be injured by them, and that no kind of
weapon or metal shall do me any harm, so surely as the
Mother of God shall not bring forth another son. t t t-
Amen.
A CHARM TO GAIN ADVANTAGE OF A MAN OF SUPERIOR
STRENGTH.
I [name] breathe upon thee. Three drops of blood I take
from thee: the first out of thy heart, the other out of they
liver, and the third out of thy vital powers; and in this
I deprive thee of thy strength and manliness.
Hbbi Massa danti Lantien. I. I. I.
50 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POT-WOWS
A RECIPE FOR DESTROYING SPRING-TAILS OR GROUND-FLEAS.
Take the chaff upon which children have been lying in
their cradles, or take the dung of horses, and put that upon
the field, and the spring-tails or ground-fleas will no longer
do you any injury.
A BENEDICTION FOR AND AGAINST ALL ENEMIES.
The cross of Christ be with me; the cross of Christ over
comes all water and every fire; the cross of Christ overcomes
all weapons; the cross of Christ is a perfect sign and bless
ing to my soul. May Christ be with me and my body dur
ing all my life at day and at night. Now I pray, I, [name],
pray God the Father for the soul's sake, and I pray God the
Son for the Father's sake, and I pray God the Holy Ghost
for the Father's and the Son's sake, that the holy corpse of
God may bless me against all evil things, words and works.
The cross of Christ open unto me future bliss; the cross
of Christ be with me, above me, before me, behind me, be
neath me, aside of me and everywhere, and before all my
enemies, visible and invisible; these all flee from me as soon
as they but know or hear. Enoch and Elias, the two pho-
phets, were never imprisoned, nor bound, nor beaten and
came never out of their power; thus no one of my enemies
must be able to injure or attack me in my body or my life,
in the name of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
A BENEDICTION AGAINST ENEMDZS, SICKNESS AND
MISFORTUNE.
The blessing which came from heaven, from God the
Father, when the true living Son was born, be with me at all
times; the blessing which God spoke over the whole human
race, be with me always. The holy cross of God, as long
and as broad as the one upon which God suffered his blessed,
bitter tortures, bless me today and forever. The three holy
nails which were driven through the holy hands and feet
of Jesus Christ shall bless me today and forever. The bitter
crown of thorns which was forced upon the holy head of
Christ, shall bless me today and forever. The spear by which
the holy side of Jesus was opened, shall bless me today and
forever. The rosy blood protect me from all my enemies,
and from everything which might be injurious to my body
or soul, or my worldly goods. Bless me, oh ye five holy
wounds, in order that all my enemies may be driven away
and bound, while God has encompassed all Christendom. In
this shall assist me God the Father, the Son and the Holy
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 51
Ghost. Amen. Thus must I [N.] be blessed as well and as
valid as the cup and the wine, and the true, living bread
which Jesus gave his disciples on the evening of Maunday
Thursday. All those that hate you must be silent before me;
their hearts are dead in regard to me; and their tongues are
mute, so that they are not at all able to inflict the least
injury upon me, or my house, or my premises: And likewise,
all those who intend attacking and wounding me with their
arms and weapons shall be defenceless, weak and conquered
before me. In this shall assist me the holy power of God,
which can make all arms or weapons of no avail. All this
in the name of God the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.
Amen.
THE TALISMAN.
It is said that anyone going out hunting and carrying it
in his game-bag, cannot but shoot something worth while
and bring it home.
An old hermit once found an old, lame huntsman in a for
est, lying beside the road and weeping. The hermit asked him
the cause of his dejection. "Ah me, thou man of God, I
am a poor, unfortunate being; I must annually furnish my
lord with as many deer, and hares, and partridges, as a young
and healthy huntsman could hunt up, or else I will be dis
charged from my office; now I am old and lame; besides
game is getting scarce, and I cannot follow it up as I ought
to; and I know not what will become of me." Here the
old man's feelings overcame him, and he could not utter
another word. The hermit, upon this, took out a small piece
of paper, upon which he wrote some words with a pencil,
and handing it to the huntsman, he said: "there, old friend,
put this in your game-bag whenever you go out hunting,
and you shall certainly shoot something worth while, and
bring it home, too, yet be careful to shoot no more than
you necessarily need, nor to communicate it to anyone that
might misuse it, on account of the high meaning contained
in these words." The hermit then went on his journey, and
after a little the huntsman also arose, and without thinking
of anything in particular he went into the woods, and had
scarcely advanced a hundred yards when he shot as fine a
roebuck as he ever saw in his life.
52 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
This huntsman was afterward and during his whole life
time lucky in his hunting, so much so that he was considered
one of the best hunters in that whole country. The follow
ing is what the hermit wrote on the paper:
Ut nemo in sense tentat, descendre nemo.
* •
At precedent/ spectatur mantica tergo.
The best argument is to try it.
TO PREVENT ANYONE FROM KILLING GAME.
Pronounce the name, as for instance, Jacob Wohlgemuth,
shoot whatever you please; shoot but hair and feathers with
and what you give to poor people. t t t Amen.
TO COMPEL A THIEF TO RETURN STOLEN GOODS.
Walk out early in the morning before sunrise, to a juniper-
tree, and bend it with the left hand toward the rising sun,
while you are saying: Juniper-tree, I shall bend and squeeze
thee, until the thief has returned the stolen goods to the
place from which he took them. Then you must take a stone
and put it on the bush, and under the bush and the stone you
must place the skull of a malefactor. t t t Yet you must
be careful, in case the thief returns the stolen goods, to un
loose the bush and replace the stone where it was before.
A CHARM AGAINST POWDER AND BALL.
The heavenly and holy trumpet blow every ball and
misfortune away from me. I seek refuge beneath the tree
of life which bears twelvefold fruits. I stand behind the
holy altar of the Christian Church. I commend myself to
the Holy Trinity. I [name} hide myself beneath the holy
corpse of Jesus Christ. I commend myself unto the wounds
of Jesus Christ, that the hand of no man might be able
to seize me, or to bind me, or to cut me, or to throw me,
or to beat me, or to overcome me in any way whatever,
so help me. [N.]
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. n
iS^Whoever carries this book with him is safe from all
his enemies, visible or invisible; and whoever has this book
with him cannot die without the holy corpse of Jesus Christ,
nor drown in any water, nor burn up in any fire, nor can
any unjust sentence be passed upon him. So help me. t t t
UNLUCKY DAYS,
TO BE FOUND IN EACH MONTH.
January 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 11, 12. July 17, 21.
February 1, 17, 18. August 20, 21.
March 14, 16. September 10, 18.
April 10, 17, 18. October 6.
May 7, 8. November 6, 10.
June 17. December 6, 11, 15.
Whoever is born upon one of these days is unfortunate and
suffers much poverty; and whoever takes sick on one of
these days seldom recovers health; and those who engage or
marry on these days become very poor and miserable. Neither
is it advisable to move from one house to another, nor to
travel, nor to bargain, nor to engage in a lawsuit, on one of
these days.
The Signs of the Zodiac must be observed by the course
of the moon, as they are daily given in common almanacs.
If a cow calves in the sign of the Virgin, the calf will
not live one year; if it happens in the Scorpion, it will die
much sooner; therefore no one should be weaned off in these
signs, nor in the sign of the Capricorn or Aquarius, and they
will be in less danger from mortal inflammation.
This is the only piece extracted from a centennial almanac
imported from Germany, and there are many who believe
in it. HOHMAN.
IN CONCLUSION THE FOLLOWING MORNING PRAYER IS GIVEN,
WHICH IS TO BE SPOKEN BEFORE ENTERING UPON A
JOURNEY. IT PROTECTS AGAINST ALL MANNER OF
BAD LUCK.
Oh, Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews, yea, a King
over the whole world, protect me [name] during this day
and night, protect me at all times by thy five holy wounds,
that I may not be seized and bound. The Holy Trinity
guard me, that no gun, fire-arm, ball or lead, shall touch
my body; and that they shall be weak like the tears and
bloody sweat of Jesus Christ, in the name of God the Father,
the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen.
54 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
APPENDIX.
The following remedy for Epilepsy was published in Lancaster
(Pa.) papers, in the year 1828.
TO SUFFERING HUMANITY.
We ourselves know of many unfortunate beings who are
afflicted with epilepsy, yet how many more may be in the
country who have perhaps already spent their fortunes in
seeking aid in this disease, without gaining relief. We have
now been informed of a remedy which is said to be infallible,
and whch has been adopted by the most distinguished phy
sicians in Europe, and has so well stood the test of repeated
trials that it is now generally applied in Europe. It directs
a bedroom for the patient to be fitted up over the cow-stable,
where the patient must sleep at night, and should spend
the greater part of his time during the day in it. This is
easily done by building a regular room over the stable. Then
care is to be taken to leave an opening in the ceiling of the
stable, in such a manner that the evaporation from the same
can pass into the room, while, at the same time, the cow
may inhale the perspiration of the sick person. In this way
the animal will gradually attract the whole disease, and be
affected with arthritic attacks, and when the patient has en
tirely lost them the cow will fall dead to the ground. The
stable must not be cleaned during the operation, though fresh
straw or hay may be put in; and of course, the milk of the
cow, as long as she gives any, must be thrown away as use
less. [Lancaster Eagle].
A SALVE TO HEAL UP WOUNDS.
Take tobacco, green or dry; if green a good handful, if
dry, two ounces; together with this take a good handful of
elder leaves, fry them well in butter, press it through a cloth,
and you may use it in a salve. This will heal up a wound in
a short time.
Or go to a white oak tree that stands pretty well isolated,
and scrape off the rough bark from the eastern side of the
tree; then cut off the inner bark, break it into small pieces,
and boil it until all the strength is drawn out; strain it
through a piece of linen, and boil it again, until it becomes
as thick as tar; then take out as much as you need, and put
to it an equal proportion of sheep-tallow, rosin and wax,
and work them together until they form a salve. This salve
you put on a piece of linen, very thinly spread, and lay
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES.
it on the wound, renewing it occasionally till the wound is
healed up.
Or take a handful of parsley, pound it fine, and work it
to a salve with an equal proportion of fresh butter. This
salve prevents mortification and heals very fast.
PEACHES.
The flowers of the peach-tree, prepared like salad, opens
the bowels, and is of use in the dropsy. Six or seven peeled
kernels of the peach-stones, eaten daily, will ease the gravel;
they are also said to prevent drunkenness, when eaten be
fore meals.
Whoever loses his hair should pound up peach kernels, mix
them with vinegar, and put them on the bald place.
The water distilled from peach flowers opens the bowels
of infants and destroys the worms.
SWEET OIL.
Sweet oil possesses a great many valuable properties, and
it is therefore advisable for every head of a family to have
it at all times about the house in order that it may be applied
in cases of necessity. Here follow some of its chief virtues:
It is a sure remedy, internally as well as externally, in all
cases of inflammation in men and animals.
Internally, it is given to alay the burning in the stomach
caused by strong drink or by purging too severely, or by
poisonous medicines. Even if pure poison has been swallowed,
vomiting may be easily produced by one or two wine-glasses
of sweet oil, and thus the poison will be carried off, pro
vided it has not already been too long in the bowels; and
after the vomiting, a spoonful of the oil should be taken
every hour until the burning caused by the poison is entirely
allayed.
Whoever is bitten by a snake, or any other poisonous ani
mal, or by a mad dog, and immediately takes warmed sweet
oil, and washes the wound with it, and then puts a rag,
three or four times doubled up and well soaked with oil,
on the wound every three or four hours, and drinks a couple
of spoonfuls of the oil every four hours for some days, will
surely find out what peculiar virtues the sweet oil possesses
in regard to poisons.
In dysentery, sweet oil is likewise a very useful remedy,
when the stomach has first been cleansed with rhubarb or
some other suitable purgative, and then a few spoonfuls of
sweet oil should be taken every three hours. For this pur
pose, however, the sweet oil should have been well boiled
56 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
and a little hartshorn be mixed with it. This boiled sweet
oil is also serviceable in all sorts of bowel complaints and in
colics; or when anyone receives internal injury as from a
fall, a few spoonfuls of it should be taken every two hours;
for it allays the pain, scatters the coagulated blood, pre
vents all inflammation and heals gently.
Externally, it is applicable in all manner of swellings; it
softens, allays the pain, and prevents inflammation.
Sweet oil and white lead, ground together, makes a very
good salve, which is applicable in burns and scalds. This
salve is also excellent against infection from poisonous weeds
or waters, if it is put on the infected part as soon as it is
noticed.
If sweet oil is put in a large glass, so as to fill it about
one-half full, and the glass is then filled up with the flowers
of the St. Johnswort, and well covered and placed in the
sun for about four weeks, the oil proves then, when distilled,
such a valuable remedy for all fresh wounds in men and
animals, that no one can imagine its medicinal powers who
has not tried it. This should at all times be found in a well-
conducted household. In a similar manner, an oil may be
made of white lilies, which is likewise very useful to soften
hardened swellings and burns, and to cure the sore breasts
of women.
CURE FOR DROPSY.
Dropsy is a disease derived from a cold humidity, which
passes through the different limbs to such a degree that it
either swells the whole or a portion of them. The usual
symptoms and precursors of every case of dropsy are the
swelling of the feet and thighs, and then of the face; besides
this the change of the natural color of the flesh into a dull
white, with great thirst, loss of appetite, costiveness, sweat
ing, throwing up of slimy substances, but little water, lazi
ness and aversion to exercise.
Physicians know three different kinds of dropsy, which
they name:
1. Anasarca, when the water penetrates between the skin
and the flesh over the whole body, and all the limbs, and
even about the face and swells them.
2. Ascites, when the belly and thighs swell, while the up
per extremities dry up.
3. Tympanites, caused rather by wind than water. The
belly swells up very hard, the navel is forced out very far,
and the other members fall away. The belly becomes so
much inflated that knocking against it causes a sound like
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. J7
that of a large drum, and from this circumstance its name
is derived.
The chief thing in curing dropsy rests upon three points,
namely:
1. To reduce the hardness of the swelling which may
be in the bowels or other parts.
2. To endeavor to scatter the humors.
3. To endeavor to pass them off either through the stool
or through the water.
The best cure therefore must chiefly consist in this: To
avoid as much as possible all drinking, and use only dry
victuals; to take moderate exercise, and to sweat and purge
the body considerably.
If anyone feels symptoms of dropsy, or while it is yet
in its first stages, let him make free use of the sugar of
the herb called Fumatory, as this purifies the blood, and the
Euphrasy sugar to open the bowels.
A CURE FOR DROPSY (SAID TO BE INFALLIBLE).
Take a jug of stone or earthenware, and put four quarts
of strong, healthy cider into it; take two handfuls of parsley
roots and tops, cut it fine; a handful of scraped horse-radish,
two tablespoonfuls of bruised mustard seed, half an ounce
of squills, and half an ounce of juniper berries; put all these
in the jug, and place it near the fire for 24 hours so as to
keep the cider warm, and shake it up often; then strain it
through a cloth and keep it for use.
To a grown person give half a wineglassful three times
a day, on an empty stomach. But if necessary you may
increase the dose, although it must decrease again as soon
as the water is carried off, and, as stated before, use dry vic
tuals and exercise gently.
This remedy has cured a great many persons, and among
them a woman of 70 years of age, who had the dropsy so
badly that she was afraid to get out of bed, for fear her
skin might burst, and who it was thought could not live
but a few days. She used this remedy according to the direc
tions given, and in less than a week the water had passed
off her, the swelling of her stomach fell, and in a few weeks
afterward she again enjoyed perfect health.
Or: Drink for a few days very strong Bohea tea, and eat
the leaves of it. This simple means is said to have carried
away the water from some persons in three or four days, and
freed them from the swelling, although the disease had reach
ed the highest pitch.
Or: Take three spoonfuls of rape-seed, and half an ounce
58 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOVS
of clean gum myrrh, put these together in a quart of good
old wine, and let it stand over night in the room, keeping
it well covered. Aged persons are to take two teaspoonfuls
of this an hour after supper, and the same before going to
bed; younger persons must diminish the quantity according
to their age, and continue the use of it as long as necessary.
Or: Take young branches of spruce pine, cut them into
small pieces, pour water on them and let them boil a while,
then pour it into a large tub, take off your clothes, and sit
down over it, covering yourself and the tub with a sheet
or blanket, to prevent the vapor from escaping. When the
water begins to cool let some one put in hot bricks; and
when you have thus been sweating for a while, wrap the
sheet or blanket close around you and go to bed with it. A
repetition of this for several days will free the system from
all water.
The following Valuable Recipes, not in the original work
of Hohman, are added by the publisher (1856).
CURE FOR DROPSY.
Take of the broom-corn seed, well powdered and sifted,
one drachm. Let it steep twelve hours in a wine-glass and
a half of good, rich wine, and take it in the morning fasting,
having first shaken it so that the whole may be swallowed.
Let the patient walk after it, if able, or let him use what
exercise he can without fatigue, for an hour and a half;
after which let him take two ounces of olive oil, and not
eat or drink anything in less than half an hour afterward.
Let this be repeated every day, or once in three days, and
not oftener, till a cure is effected, and do not let blood, or
use any other remedy during the course.
Nothing can be more gentle and safe than the operation
of this remedy. If the dropsy is in the body it discharges
it by water, without inconvenience; if it is between the
skin and flesh, it causes blisters to rise on the legs, by which
it will run off; but this does not happen to more than one
in thirty: and in this case no plasters must be used, but
apply red-cabbage leaves. It cures dropsy in pregnant wo
men, without injury to the mother or child. It also alleviates
asthma, consumption and disorders of the liver.
REMEDY FOR THE LOCK JAW.
We are informed by a friend that a sure preventive against
this terrible disease,
is,
to take some soft soap and mix
it
with
a
sufficient quantity of pulverized chalk, so as to make
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 59
it of the consistency of buckwheat batter; keep the chalk
moistened with a fresh supply of soap until the wound be
gins to discharge, and the patient finds relief. Our friend
stated to us that explicit confidence may be placed in what
he says, that he has known several cases where this remedy
has been successfully applied. So simple and valuable a rem
edy, within the reach of everyone, ought to be generally
known.—N. Y. Evening Post.
FOR THE STING OF A WASP OR BEE.
A Liverpool paper states as follows: "A few days ago, hap
pening to be in the country, we witnessed the efficacy of
the remedy for the sting of a wasp mentioned in one of our
late papers. A little boy was stung severely and was in great
torture, until an onion was applied to the part affected, when
the cure was instantaneous. This important and simple
remedy cannot be too generally known, and we pledge our
selves to the facts above stated."
DIARRHOZA MIXTURE.
Take one ounce tinct. rhubarb, one ounce laudanum, one
ounce tinct. Cayenne pepper, one ounce spirits of camphor.
Dose, from one to thirty drops for an adult.
SOAP POWDERS.
Take one pound of hard soap, cut it fine, and mix with
it one pound of soda ash. This article is much used, and
its preparation, we believe, is a "great secret."
TO DYE A MADDER RED.
For each pound of cloth, soak half a pound of madder
in a brass kettle over night, with sufficient warm water to
cover the cloth you intend to dye. Next morning put in
two ounces of madder compound for every pound of mad
der. Wet your cloth and wring it out in clean water, then
put it in the dye. Place the kettle over the fire, and bring it
slowly to a scalding heat, which will take about half an
hour; keep at this heat half an hour, if a light red is wanted,
and longer if a dark one, the color depending on the time
it remains in the dye.
When you have obtained the color, rinse the cloth im
mediately in cold water.
TO DYE A FINE SCARLET RED.
Bring to a boiling heat, in a brass kettle, sufficient soft
water to cover the cloth you wish to dye; then add 1^4
oz. cream of tartar for every pound of cloth. Boil a minute
or two, add two oz. lac dye and one oz. madder compound
60 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POVT-TOWS
(both previously mixed in an earthen bowl) boil 5 minutes;
now wet the cloth in warm water and wring it out and put
it into the dye; boil the whole nearly an hour, take the cloth
out and rinse it in clear cold water.
TO DYE A PERMANENT BLUE.
Boil the cloth in a brass kettle for an hour, in a solution
containing five parts of alum and three of tartar for every
32 parts of cloth. It is then to be thrown into warm water,
previously mixed with a greater or less proportion of chemic
blue, according to the shade the cloth is intended to receive.
In this water it must be boiled until it has acquired the de
sired color.
TO DYE A GREEN.
For every pound of cloth add 3
x/i
oz. of alum and one
pound of fustic. Steep (not boil) till the strength
is
out;
soak the cloth till
it
acquires
a
good yellow, then remove the
chips, and add the chemic blue by degrees till you have the
desired color.
PHYSIC BALL FOR HORSES.
Cape aloes, from six to ten drachms; Castile soap, one
drachm; spirits of wine, one drachm; syrup to form the ball.
If mercurial physic be wanted, add from one-half
a
drachm
to one drachm of calomel.
Previous to physicking
a
horse, and during its operation,
he should be fed on bran mashes, allowed plenty of chilled
water, and have exercise. Physic
is
always useful;
it
is
nec
essary to be administered in almost every disease;
it
improves
digestion, and gives strength to the lacteals by cleansing
the intestines and unloading the liver; and
if
the animal
is
afterward properly fed, will improve his strength and con
dition in
a
remarkable degree. Physic, except in urgent cases,
should be given in the morning and on an empty stomach,
and,
if
required to be repeated,
a
week should intervene be
tween each dose.
Before giving
a
horse
a
ball, see that
it
is
not too hard nor
too large. Cattle medicine
is
always given as
a
drench.
PHYSIC FOR CATTLE.
Cape aloes, four drachms to one oz.; Epsom salts, four
to six oz.; powdered ginger, three drachms. Mix and give
in
a
quart of gruel. For calves one-third of this will be
a
dose.
SEDATIVE AND WORM BALL.
Powdered white hellebore, one-half drachm; linseed pow
der, one-half oz.
If
necessary, make into
a
ball with molasses.
This ball
is
a
specific for weed. Two ounces of gargling oil,
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 61
in one-half bottle of linseed oil, is an effectual remedy for
worms in horses and cattle.
ASTRINGENT BALL FOR LOOSENESS IN HORSES.
Opium from one-half to one drachm; ginger, one and a
half drachms; prepared chalk, three drachms; flour, two
drachms. Powder, and make into a ball with molasses.
MIXTURE FOR ULCERS AND ALL FOUL SORES.
Sulphate of zinc, one 02.; corrosive sublimate, one drachm;
spirit of salt, four drachms; water, one pint; mix.
YELLOW WATER IN HORSES.
Take Venetian soap, juniper oil, saltpetre, sal prunella,
sweet spirits of nitre, of each one ounce; make it into a
ball with pulverized licorice root, and give the horse two
ounces at once, and repeat if necessary. If attended with a
violent fever, bleed, and give bran mashes; or,
Take a gallon of strong beer, or ale, add thereto two ounces
of Castile soap and one ounce of saltpetre; stir, and mix daily
of this with his feed.
The following is also highly recommended in a German
work:
Take pulverized gentian and calamus, of each one-half
ounce; sulphate of potassa, two ounces; tartar emetic, liver
of sulphur, and oil of turpentine, one-eighth of an ounce
each; mix it with flour and water, and give the above in
the incipient stage of the disease.
The dose, if necessary, may be given daily for several days.
A VALUABLE RECIPE FOR GALLS WTNDGALLS IN HORSES.
An intelligent and experienced farmer, rising of seventy
years of age, residing in Allen township, Cumberland coun
ty, has assured us that the following ointment, if applied two
or three times a day, will cure the most obstinate windgalls.
Take one pound of the leaves of stramonium (Jamestown
weed) bruised; two pounds of fresh butter or hog's lard,
and one gill of the spirits of turpentine; put the whole of
the ingredients into a clean earthen crock and place it with
the contents over live coals for twenty or thirty minutes,
stirring it occasionally: then strain it through a coarse cloth
or canvas, and it forms a consistent ointment, with which
anoint the windgalls two or three times a day.
Fifty dollars had been offered for the above receipt, so says
our informant, who kindly furnished it.
62 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN's POW-WOWS
WIND-BROKEN HORSES.
The excellent ball for broken-winded horses, that has made
a perfect cure of over seven hundred in less than nine months,
after many other medicines being tried in vain.
Take myrrh, elecampane, and licorice root, in fine powder,
three ounces each; saffron, three drachms: assafoetida, one
ounce; sulphur squills and cinnabar of antimony, of each
two ounces; aurum mosaicum, one ounce and a half; oil
of aniseed, eighty drops. You may make it into paste with
either treacle or honey, and give the horse the quantity of a
hen's egg every morning for a week; and afterwards every
other morning till the disorder is removed. — [Montague's
Farrier]. (»*•'*
I
ON ARTS AND REMEDIES. 63
INDEX
TO THE ARTS AND REMEDIES CONTAINED IN THIS BOOK.
Publisher's Note v
Preface, first edition ... vii
Testimonials, cures, etc.. ix
Adversity, charm 38
Astringent, horses 61
Bad luck, to avoid 53
Bad people, to halt 36
Bee-hives, worms in 32
Beer, to make 26
Bee-sting, remedy 59
Benediction, a 41
Bewitched cattle
35,36,37,38,42
Bewitched persons 37
Bleeding, to stop
13,17, 19,30, 43
Blood purifier 28
Blue, to dye 60
Boils and ulcers 15
Bots in horses 16,23
Bruises, to heal 20
Burns and wounds, . . 16, 19,
23,28, 41,42, 54
Calumniation, to stop.... 21
Cattle, bewitched
35,36,37,38,42
Cattle, physic 60
Cattle, to return.. 20,21,26
Cherries, delay ripening. 21
Chickens, to lay 22
Children teething 27
Colic, remedy for. 14, 18. 24
Consumption, remedy ... 21
Convulsions, fits 20
Court, to win in 31, 42
Cow, remedy for 38,39
Cows, hollow horn 22
Crab-lice, to destroy 26
Dangers, against. . 38, 39, 43
Deafness, to cure 27
Death, against 38
Desires obtained 15
Diarrhoea, relief . 27,28,59
Dizziness, to cure 28
Dog, to stay with you ... 14
Dropsy, remedy 55, 56, 57, 58
Dysentery, cure 28
Eggs, to secure 22
Enemies, charm 50
Epilepsy, remedy . 19, 26, 54
Evil, charm against.. 42,43,
... 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,49, 50
Evil spirits, charm . . 35, 37
Eye-water, good 19, 25
Eye, wheal in 22
Falling Away, to cure. . . 13
Fears, to banish 21
Fever, remedy. . 14, 18, 24, 39
Field mice, to rid 27
Fire-arms, charm
... 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 52
Fire, to extinguish . . 34, 36
Fire, to prevent 35, 36
Fish, to catch 15, 31
Fish, to collect 21
Fits, convulsions 20
Game, to secure 51
Games, to win 41
Glass, to mend 20
Gravel, remedy 26
Green, to dye 60
Ground fleas, to destroy. . 50
Headache, cure for 20
Heart, palpitation of . . . . 15
Hessian fly 21
Hide-bound 15
Horses, astringent 61
Horses, physic 60
Horses, refusing feed ... 24
Horses, ulcers 61
Horses, windgalls 61
Horses, wind-broken 62
Horses, yellow water ... 61
Hollow-horn, cows 22
House protection . 37, 38, 43
Hunting, to halt 52
Hysterics, remedy for. . . 13
Inflammation 16
Injuries, precaution . . 15, 43
Injury, to prevent 16, 43
Iron, to find 15
Journey —a prayer 33
Lawsuit, to win 31, 42
Limbs, weakness 24
Lock-jaw, remedy 58
64 JOHN GEORGE HOHMAN S POW-WOWS
INDEX (Concluded).
Mad dogs 23, 28
Magnus, Albertus 20
Mice, to destroy 24
Misfortune, charm 50
Molasses, to make 25
Moles, to rid 27
Morning prayer 33, 53
Mortification 16,29
Mother Fits, remedy for. 13
Mouth, sore 21
Ore, to find 15
Pains, to stop 17, 19, 23
Paper, non-blotting 26
Personal protection . 38, 43,
... 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 52
Persons bewitched 37
Pestilence, to halt 34
Physic for cattle 60
Physic for horses 60
Plaster, a good 18, 30
Poll-evil in horses ... 16, 30
Pregnant women 28
Prayer against mishaps .
33,53
Rats, to destroy 24
Red, to dye 59
Release spell-bound .... 40
Restore stolen goods . 40, 48
Rheumatism, cure 31
Rust, to prevent 33
Salve for wounds 54
Scarlet, to dye 59
Scurvy, cure for 30
Sedative, cattle 60
Sheep diseases 29
Sick, to cure tbe 13
Sickness protection 37
Slander, to resent 14
Snake-bite 23
Soap powders 59
Sore eyes, to heal ... 26, 27
Sore mouth 21
Sore throat, cure 30
Sores, to cure 26
Spell-bind anything 36
Stolen gods 40,48,52
Swallow-wort 22
Sweeney, to cure 25
Sweet oil, uses of 55
Swelling of cattle 31
Swellings, remedy 38
Talisman 51
Tape-worm 23
Teething children 27
Theft protection
37,44,46,47,48,49
Thieves, to halt 25, 39, 40, 48
Toothache, remedy 17,19,28
Ulcers and boils 15, 16
Ulcers, horses 61
Unlucky days 53
Urine, to hold 27
Vomiting, relief 27
Walk securely 17
Wand, to make 15, 22
Wands, divinatory ... 15, 22
Warts, to destroy 17
Wasp-sting, remedy 59
Water, to find 15
Weakness, limbs 24,28
Weakness, remedy 24
Wen, on horse 24
Wen, to remove 27
Wheal in eye 22
White swelling 18,19
Whooping cougto 17
Wick, ever-lasting 33
Wild-fire, remedy 17
Wind-broken horses .... 62
Windgalls in horses 61
Witchcraft, charm ... 38, 42
Witches, to halt 35
Worms in bee-hives 32
Worms in horses 16
Worms, remedy . . 14, 24, 41
Wool, to grow 29
Wounds and burns, . . 16, 19,
23, 28,41,42, 54
