{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1929__aclu___prosecution_of_mary-ware_dennett.pdf","mytitle":"Prosecution Of Mary-ware Dennett","mylang":"de"}
‘The Prosecution of
MARY WARE DENNETT
for “Obscenity”
u.
u
u
u
u
After distributing her pamphlet “The
Sex Side of Life” for 10 years, Mrs.
Dennett was brought to trial by Post
05ce o5cials and convicted in the Fed-
eral Court at Brooklyn for sending “ob-
scene matter”-her pamphlet-through
the mails. She was sentenced to pay
$300 fine or serve 300 days in jail.
Mrs. Dennett’s pamphlet, written first
for her own growing boys, is endorsed
by educators, clergymen and doctors
and is used in schools and colleges.
The conviction has been appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and will be
taken, if necessary, to the Supreme
Court to determine whether frank sex
education is “obscene.”
A special national committee has been
formed by the Civil Liberties Union to
carry up the appeal.
If you will join the fight on such censor-
ship and repression, fill out and send in
the coupon on the last page.
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION
100 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK CITY
~csa June, 1929
The Prosecutionof Mary Ware Dennett
for “ Obscenity”
Who Determines Obscenity?
AFEDERAL STATUTE passed in 1873 on the urging of
Anthony Comstock, makes it a crime to send any “ob-
scene, lewd, or lascivious matter” through the U. S. mails.
Determination of what is obscene rests in the first instance
with the legal adviser to the Post Office Department - the
Solicitor. If he declares a book or pamphlet obscene, post-
masters are notified not to accept it for mailing and when de-
tected in the mails it is returned to the sender or destroyed.
The Post Office Department may stop there. Or it may re-
quest a U. S. District Attorney to bring a prosecution against
the person sending it. If a person so prosecuted is acquitted
and the book or pamphlet found not to be obscene, the Post
Office Department may still stand by its ruling and refuse to
carry it in the mails. The only relief in such cases is a suit in
court to enjoin the Department from refusing to carry it.
The Post Office Department’s authority in law does not
rest upon any general censorship powers. Ita rests only on
the discretion given it by Congress to decide what the mails
may carry. Keep the mails pure, said Congress. A book or
pamphlet declared obscene by the Post Office may still be sent
freely by express or sold in book stores. But it may be at-
tacked through a prosecution under state laws against ob-
scene literature. If that is done and a conviction results, the
offending book or pamphlet may be seized and destroyed and
its further sale or shipment becomes a crime in the state where
the conviction was obtained, but not elsewhere.
Thus we have the amusing situation of seeing books de-
clared obscene by the Post 05ce Department and refused
transportation in the mails which go freely by express, or
which may be declared to be not obscene by a jury in a crimi-
nal court. Contrary-wise we have books declared obscene by
a jury in court which the Post 05ce allows freely to pass
through the mails. And besides this conflict of views on ob-
scenity, the Customs authorities under an old law preventing
the importation of obscene books may guess again on one side
or the other. Even further, the Bureau of Copyrights at Wash-
[21
THE Psos~cv~~o~ OF MARY WARE DENNETT
ington is forbidden by law to copyright a book it holds to be
obscene. But it has never yet refused a copyright on that
ground !
Such is the system in this country of controlling the sale
and distribution of obscene literature. Nobody raises the
issue when it is confined to obviously smutty matter. Only
when it reaches out to serious works on art and science is it
challenged. There are those who oppose the discretion given
the Post 05ce Department by Congress, preferring to see the
determination of obscenity left entirely to the courts, not to a
single lawyer at Washington.
The Prosecution of Mrs. Dennett
This system of censorship and control is challenged dra-
matically in the prosecution of Mrs. Mary Ware Dennett of
Brooklyn for sending through the mails her little twenty-four
page pamphlet “The Sex Side of Life”. Mrs. Dennett wrote
it in 1915, first as a plain statement of the facts of sex for her
two adolescent boys.
The publisher of the MLedical Review of Reviews saw the
manuscript and offered to publish it. It appeared in full in
the issue of February 1918 with the editor’s commendation
and expressed hope that it would be reprinted in pamphlet
form. It was. Mrs. Dennett was well known in her public ac-
tivities for birth control and her pamphlet attracted attention.
It served its purpose so well that it went into seven editions.
Over 35,000 copies were sold during the last ten years to
teachers, social workers, ministers, Y.M. and Y.W.C.A. secre-
taries, doctors and parents. It has been used in public schools
and colleges, in clubs and classes for young people. It has
received warm endorsement from leaders in the teaching and
medical professions.
But not from the Post 05ce Department. As early as 1922
the Department ruled that it was obscene, and prohibited its
distribution by mail. But Mrs. Dennett went on mailing it in
sealed envelopes, which the Department could not legally
examine. Then in 1929 after some complaint was said to have
been made by a member or members of the Daughters of the
American Revolution, the Department rigged up a decoy to
order a pamphlet from Mrs. Dennett. It invented a fictitious
woman, had stationery printed with her name and sent for a
131
~~~ P~OSECVTION OF MARY WARE DENNETT
pamphlet. Its receipt was the evidence that the Department
wanted.
An indictment was sought and secured in December 1928
in the Federal District Court which sits in Brooklyn. Mrs.
Dennett’s home in Astoria, from which the pamphlet was
mailed, is in that district. The case came on for hearing be-
fore Federal Judge Moscowitz in January on motion to quash
the indictment. The judge was troubled. He was unwilling
to decide himself whether the pamphlet was obscene, and
resorted to an extraordinary proceeding. He called in to sit
with him on the bench when arguments were made three
clergymen-a Catholic priest, a Jewish rabbi and a Protestant
minister. His stated object in doing so was “to aid the con-
science of the court on the matter”. The court room was
crowded with doctors, teachers and clergymen, many of them
ready to testify to the merits of the pamphlet. And the pro-
fessional vice crusaders were there, too.
Judge Moscowitz took the issue under advisement. What
the reverend gentlemen decided was not disclosed. But Judge
Moscowitz decided that further oral proceedings would only
contribute to what he regarded as unfortunate publicity. He
dropped the plan to hear expert testimony, and ordered all
testimonials and criticism submitted in writing-twelve on
each side. After deliberating over the case alone-apparently
without benefit of clergy - he declined to quash the in-
dictment.
The case came on for trial before a jury in April, 1929
with Judge Warren B. Burrows sitting. The prosecution was
handled by assistant United States District Attorney James E.
Wilkinson, the defense by Morris L. Ernst of New York, who
volunteered his services to Mrs. Dennett. Mr. Ernst’s efforts
to introduce testimony showing the motive in writing the
pamphlet, its wide endorsement by educators and doctors,
and its similarity to publications of the U. S. Public Health
Service were all blocked by the judge. Only the pamphlet it-
self was put before the jury.
The pamphlet is a brief little work of only 24 pages. It
contains a foreword by the editor of the Mledical Review of
Reviews and a three page introduction for elders. This intro-
duction characterizes the pamphlet completely. Mrs. Dennett
says :
[41
THE PROSECUTION OF MARY WARE DENNETT
“In reading several dozen books on sex matters for the
young with a view to selecting the best for my own chil-
dren, I found none that I was willing to put into their
hands, without first guarding them against what I consid-
ered very misleading and harmful impressions, which they
would otherwise be sure to acquire in reading them. That
is the excuse for this article.
“It is far more specific than most sex information writ-
ten for young people. I believe we owe it to children to be
specific if we talk about the subject at all.
“From a careful observation of youthful curiosity and a
very vivid recollection of my own childhood, I have tried to
explain frankly the points about which there is the greatest
inquiry. These points are not frankly or clearly explained
in most sex literature. They are avoided, partly from em-
barrassment, but more, apparently, because those who
have undertaken to instruct the children are not really
clear in their own minds as to the proper status of the sex
relation.
“I found that, from the physiological point of view,
the question was handled with limitations and reserva-
tions. From the point of natural science it was often
handled with sentimentality, the child being led from a
semi-esthetic study of the reproduction of flowers and ani-
mals to the acceptance of a similar idea for human beings.
From the moral point of view it was handled least satis-
factorily of all, the child being given a jumble of conflict-
ing ideas, with no means of correlating them - fear of
venereal disease, one’s duty to suppress ‘animal passion’,
and sacredness of marriage, and so forth. And from the
emotional point of view, the subject was not handled at all.
“This one omission seems to me to be the key to the
whole situation, and it is the basis of the radical departure
I have made from precedents in most sex literature for
children.”
The “Explanation for Young People” deals with reproduc-
tion in the animal and plant world, and gives the physiology
of sex organs (with charts) and of the sex relation. It treats
the problems of self-abuse and venereal disease. It is clear,
simple, clean. Yet the District Attorney characterized it as
THE Psos~cmo~ OF MABY WAKE DENNEI-T
“pure and simple smut”. He added “If I can stand between
this woman and the children of the land, I will have accomp-
lished something”.
The jury took forty minutes to bring in a verdict of guilty.
The judge in sentencing Mrs. Dennett to a fine of $300 said:
“It did not come to my attention until yesterday after-
noon, and I verified it this morning, that the ban was
placed upon this by the proper government department. I
simply mention that because I had supposed during the
trial that there had been no objection on the part of the
government to it being sent through the mail. Now whether
the defendant wants to test this matter or not, it seems to
me that there is a large element of defiance against the
order. That was in 1922 and apparently it has been pub-
lished and sent through the mails ever since.”
Mrs. Dennett announced at once that she would appeal
and that in no event would she pay the fine or allow it to be
paid for her, preferring to go to jail instead as an example of
the folly of censorship.
The case, which goes to the Circuit Court of Appeals at
New York, will not be heard until the fall of 1929. If the de-
cision there is adverse, it will be carried to the United States
Supreme Court. The grounds for the appeal are :
1. That the pamphlet is not in fact obscene as a matter of
law, and the court, therefore, should have dismissed the in-
dictment or directed a verdict of acquittal.
2. The district judge erred in refusing to permit testimony
as to the distribution of the pamphlet and its use.
3. The “obscenity” law under which the indictment was
brought is unconstitutional in violating freedom of the press,
and in not making the offense specific.
The Defense Committee
Immediately upon news of the conviction a defense com-
mittee was formed to appeal the case. The American Civil
Liberties Union organized it, contributing its facilities for the
work. Morris Ernst and his associates volunteered to do the
legal work without fee.
161
THE PROSECUTION OF MARY WARE DENNET~
The committee, known as the MARY WARE DENNETT
DEFENSE COMMITTEE, is composed of leaders in educa-
tional, religious and medical work. It is intended to enlist
about one hundred members on the committee. The present
members are :
ROY W. HOWAEQ newspaper proprietor, temporary chairman;
GJELI~~ LAMONT, Asst. Professor of Philosophy, Columbia Univers-
ity, treasurer ; ELIWAB~ J. ALLEN, director of Seth Low, Jr. College,
Columbia University; HELEN ARTHUR, theatrical producer; JOSEPH-
INE DASKAM BACON, author; ALICE C. BOUBHTON, statistician, re-
search expert; JOHN MCENTEE BOWIILAN, business man.
Da. Lomsx STEVENS BRYANT, executive secretary, Committee on
Maternal Health, REV. HENBP SLOANE COFFIN, President, Union
Theological Seminary; Marc CONNOLLY, dramatic author; DE.
KATHERINE BEMENT DAVIS, child welfare authority; REV. H. PAUL
Donow, research director, Institute of Social and Religious Re-
search; DR. ROBERT L. DICKINSON, secretary, Committee on Ma-
ternal Health; RUTH DRAPER, diseuse.
HARRISON H. ELLIS, professor, Union Theological Seminary;
Mas. MARQTALL FIELD; MAE~ABET FLENNIKEN, National Board,
Y.W.C.A.; ABEL J. Gaxoo, National Council, Y.M.C.A.; Da LOUIS
I. HARRIS, former Health Commissioner of New York; P~oF. ETHEL
PUFFEE Howxs, director of Smith College Institute for the Co-
ordination of Women’s Interests; RUPEBT HIJGHE~, author.
FANNIE HURST, author; Bnscox JOHNON, director, Division of
Legal and Protective Measures, American Social Hygiene As-
sociation; EDITH J. MITCHELL, executive secretary, Westchester
County Children’s Association; GEOFXX HAVEN PUTNUM, publisher ;
Mus. JAC~D Rm, President of the Jacob Riis Settlement; WILLIAM
E. SPEEB(I, National Council of the Y.M.C.A.; HENRY W; THUMTON,
Department of Child Welfare, N. Y. School of Social Work; Goon-
wm WATSON, Professor, Teachers College, Columbia University;
RABBI STEPHEN S. WL(IE, Free Synagogue.
Public Opinion
Newspaper comment all over the country has been highly
critical of the prosecution. Very little has been said for the
government’s case. Unsolicited letters have come in by the
score from persons who have used Mrs. Dennett’s pamphlet
with their children, and from teachers and social workers.
THE PROSECUTION OF MARY WAREDENNETT
The case has aroused a committee of women to protest
against the censorship exercised by the Post Office Depart-
ment under authority of Congress. It proposes to introduce a
bill taking away from the Department those powers. Mrs.
Dennett’s pamphlet has been printed again in a new edition
to meet the demands for it and is being distributed through
book-stores and by express.
The importance of the case in court far exceeds the issue
of the pamphlet itself. It involves the whole method of de-
termining obscenity, the rules of evidence in trials, and the
constitutionality of the law under which the Post Office De-
partment operates its censorship. The consequences of the
decision will not only affect the distribution of Mrs. Dennett’s
pamphlet but other frank literature on sex education. And
they may reach out to curtailing the powers of the Post Office
Department to determine what is obscene.
A book describing the entire case and the issues which it
raises is in the course of preparation by Mrs. Dennett herself
and will be published during the summer by the Vanguard
Press, 100 Fifth Avenue, New York City, at a price of $2.00.
Those who care to order copies in advance may do so through
the American Civil Liberties Union.
Funds for the expenses of printing the record, for organ-
izing the defense and for lawyers’ expenses are needed. Con-
tributions should be sent to Corliss Lamont, Treasurer, Room
1403,100 Fifth Avenue, New York City.
--- -_--__- ------me-----
MARYWAREDENNETT
DEFENSE
COMMITTEE
Room 1403, 100 Fifth Avenue, New York City
1. I enclose $. . .. ___.to aid in the appeal of
Mrs. Mary Ware Dennett.
2. Please put me down for ..........__..__copies of the
book by Mrs. Dennett for which I enclose $. ...
(at $2.00 a copy).
Signed.
Address..
City. .._..._.
_.
_._
_.. ._. State.__
_.
__
___
.__
_...
.._
