{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__weltmer___the_secret_power.pdf","mytitle":"The Secret Power","mylang":"de"}
BF 645
.W37
Copy 1
"SECRET POWER
Ernest Weltmer
i
i
WELTMER PUBLICATIONS
Regeneration, S. A. Weltmer,Leatherette,
$1.50; Leather........................................................$2.50
Realization, Ernest Weltmer, Cloth....................... 2.00
The Healing Hand, S. A. Weltmer, Library edi­
tion, cloth, 146 pages........................................ 2.00
Heirs of the King, Ernest Weltmer, Cloth..............50
Day Dreams, S. A. Weltmer................................... 1.00
Eternal Now, S. A. Weltmer.........................................50
Self Protection, S. A. Weltmer..................................25
Undying Character of Thought, S. A. Weltmer.. .25
Weltmerism’s or Pointed Paragraphs, S. A.
Weltmer ....................................................................... 25
The Law of Success, J. Kelly................................. 1.00
Life Lessons, G. M. Brown........................................ 1.00
Magnetic Healing, H. C. Murphy.................................50
Telepathy, S. H. Mellott.................................................25
Complete Correspondence Course in the Essentials
of Psychology, General Philosophy, Suggestive
Therapeutics and Right Living, including 45 sec­
tions of Lecture transcripts, syllabi and question
papers, life time service.
Mastery Lessons, a correspondence course of 30
lessons in Self-Interpretation, Self-Mastery, and
Prosperity.
Spiritual Unfoldment, a course of 84 lessons in the
development of the deeper spiritual powers.
Prices for correspondence courses upon request.
Address all orders to The Weltmer Institute, Nevada,
Missouri.
■oooooo
9
l
9
I
I
L*
THE
SECRET
P O W E R
BY
ERNEST WELTMER
Published By
The Weltmer Institute of Suggestive
Therapeutics Company
NEVADA, MISSOURI
c—
x> < ^
<
-
X
~
X
»
0
0
0
<
X
>
'
Copyright 1928 by
The Weltmer Institute of Suggestive Therapeutics
Company
Nevada, Missouri.
© C l A 1 0 6 9 7 1 7
CONTENTS
---0---
Page
I. Introduction.............................................. 13
II. Your D e s ir e s ................................. 17
III. When “The Giant”Works for You . 29
IV. The Power of a Healing
Consciousness...........................39
V. T H E SECRETPO W ER . . 43
I.
INTRODUCTION
There is a secret power, a power that
is yours to use for the accomplishment of
your desires. It has been known to a few
of the illumined; it has been responsible for
the achievements of all who have accom­
plished much. It has been called by many
names but its magic is not in its name and
most of those who have made the greatest
use of it have had no name at all for it. It
is not necessary to name it; it is necessary
only that you believe THIS POWER IS
YOURS.
In this booklet I prove that there is a
secret power and that this secret power is
yours. This is equivalent to a gift to you
of power to accomplish your desires. If
14 THE SECRET POWER
you receive the gift I offer to you your life
soon will demonstrate the secret power in
your affairs. It will still be a secret power.
You may give it one or another name—
probably you will. The name does not mat­
ter and you would be better off if you do
not attempt to name it, nor even to discover
it unless you make a very thorough study
of its nature and its use. All you need to
do is to accept and use it.
I have given the conditions of success
in the employment of the secret power
you must accept it; you must use it. You
cannot use it if you do not accept it, and
even though you do accept it, you cannot
profit by it until you use it. Both
of these conditions must be fulfilled.
When they are fulfilled you find yourself
master of life and circumstances. Without
INTRODUCTION 15
their fulfillment, you remain a leaf in a
whirlwind, a chip in a current, a puppet of
life, a plaything of circumstances.
Read this message with an open mind
and the willingness to believe. Don’t argue
with its truths. I am not arguing with you.
I will not argue with you even though you
may some day become my pupil and I meet
you day by day in personal classes. I will
not argue with you then, and most certainly
I am not arguing with you now. Therefore,
do not try to argue with me. If you wish
to argue, it is because you do not wish to
believe, because you are seeking an alibi for
failure.
Read this message with open mind and
willingness to become a person of power
among men and a master of circumstances.
Read, accept and use THE SECRET POWER
and by your own life you will demonstrate
16 THE SECRET POWER
very soon that THIS SECRET POWER IS
YOURS.
II
YOUR DESIRES
You can have what you desire.
You will notice I have not said “You
can have this much, or that much of your
desire”, I have said “You can have what you
desire”. I mean just what I have said.
The stubborn facts of real life prove that
it is unnecessary to qualify that statement.
You CAN have WHAT you desire.
One whose words a great many accept
as “gospel truth” said two thousand years
ago “Ask and ye shall receive”. He did not
say what you might ask for. He knew that
you can have whatever you desire enough to
ask for it. He knew that the only limita~
tions are the limitations you place upon
yourself and your right to “desire” and to
TB TH& SEGRE.T POWER
“ask”. “You can have what you desire;”
“Ask and ye shall receive”.
Human life is many-sided. You desire
many different things. Some of these de­
sires are mutually exclusive. If you are to
have one of them you must give up another.
You cannot eat your cake and have it too.
You cannot enjoy both the fruits of industry
and the ease of idleness. You cannot have
both the honors of high achievement and the
freedom from responsibility of dependence.
You cannot have great authority without
accepting the accompanying responsibilities.
You have been subjected to so many dif­
ferent influences from so many different
angles that your life has become very com­
plex and it is necessary to decide in the very
beginning which of your many desires you
value most.
YOUR DESIRES 19
You may find this a difficult task when
you really get at it. I hope you will get at
it. I hope you are not one of those care­
less persons who jumps at conclusions. They
know at once what they most desire. They
desire to be rich like Rockefeller, or heroic
and famous like Lindbergh. They may only
wish to be as rich as Smith or as well-known
as Jones. Whatever it is, you may be sure
such wishes usually serve only to hide from
themselves the fact that they do not know
definitely what they do desire or that they
desire something else they are getting and
cannot bear to give up but yet cannot admit
that they do desire it.
Don’t jump at conclusions in this mat­
ter. Find out what you desire, and if
possible, fiind out why. Then after you have
discovered what you desire and why, look
further and determine whether you desire
20 THE SECRET POWER
something you will be glad to have after you
get it.
This is very important, that you should
desire what you will be glad to have after
you get it, for I assure you, you will get
what you desire when you fulfill the condi­
tions of the action of THE SECRET
POWER.
If you have really undertaken to catalog
your desires you have found out that it is
not such an easy task. You have found so
many desires you did not know were there,
and so many more you cannot bear to admit
are there, and so many that you are not
quite sure you really desire, that it is diffi­
cult to decide which of these many desires
to treasure most. Let me tell you how to
know which desires you have been most de­
voted to.
YOUR DESIRES 21
Things you most desire are those you
most easily think about. AH of your
thoughts spring from your desires. Desire
is the engine that drives the machinery and
those parts of the machine which are most
closely connected to the engine run most
easily and regularly.
You may object to my proposition that
you most desire what you think about most
readily, on the ground that you think most
readily about the very things you fear and
dread. A greater understanding of the real
nature and meaning of desire will show you
that I am right and that the very condition
which seems to you to prove me wrong is
an argument in favor of my contention.
Desire is very easily converted from one
form into another. Fear is primarily a de­
sire. The energy with which we persistent­
ly worry about something is the energy of
22 THE SECRET POWER
the desire for the thing we are being denied.
The energy is not primarily fear energy, it
is primarily desire energy.
The first of all desires is the desire to
live. Living is a positive process, not mere­
ly a negative escape from death. It is a
positive achievement of a state of being
which becomes the starting point of every­
thing that relates to it. Death, or nonexis­
tence is not the primary fact. Life, exis­
tence, progressive change is the primary
fact. Life is positive, death is negative.
Health is positive, disease is negative. Liv­
ing, with everything that belongs to success­
ful living is the primary positive desired
condition and everything that interferes
with or disturbs or threatens to disturb liv­
ing is a secondary, derived condition.
Desire, as related to life, is the desire
to live. This means not only the desire for
YOUR DESIRES 23
mere existence but the desire to live abund­
antly, successfully, joyously, pleasantly,
happily. Life is not complete when lacking
any of these qualities of fullness. Fear,
worry, dread, anger, frustration, jealousy,
envy, even despair and the desire for escape,
suicidal depression and every other unpleas­
ant impulse, derives its energy from the pri­
mary desire to live. One may even approach
suicide in the effort to overcome a frustra­
tion in life. This is a sort of escape from
the feeling of being unable to achieve one’s
purposes. Suicide presents a dramatic
climax and a final achievement of the life
aim to rule and determine one’s own life.
If you wish to understand the real
meaning of your thoughts and what they
are doing to your life, you must study them
as manifestations of the energy and pur­
pose of the desire to live.
24 THE SECRET POWER
If the thoughts that come most easily
to your mind are thoughts of a negative
character, thoughts of something that wor­
ries you, then the desire that drives them
is the desire for the thing that you are be­
ing denied. Furthermore, you are obviously
using the energy of that desire in the wrong
way for you are directing it all to the
strengthening of the obstacle in your path
rather than to the purpose of going around
it or removing the obstacle.
If you find that your thoughts run to
some sort of pleasure, legitimate or illegiti­
mate, whenever you relax from your labors,
you may be sure that the greatest motive
force of your life is the desire to achieve
those pleasures. That is what life means to
you, your supreme interpretation of living.
Many a person interprets life in the
terms of baseball, automobiling, golfing,
YOUR DESIRES 25
drinking, fishing, or flirting, who imagines
that he has a very high concept of life and
that he is living for the sake of some fine
ideal. He labors conscientiously for certain
periods every day at appointed and worthy
tasks. He gives much serious thought to
the effort to achieve his fine ideals, but when
he relaxes and allows his thoughts to flow
unguarded into the easiest channels, they
show where his dominant interests lie and
prove that everything else he does is be­
ing done for the sake of these things he
thinks of when he takes off all the guards
he places on his thoughts.
In this little book I do not attempt to
tell you how to bring these contrary thoughts
under control. To succeed in such an un­
dertaking it is necessary for you to make a
thorough study of Practical Psychology and
the emotional nature. You must know your-
26 THE SECRET POWER
self very well. You may need a personality
analysis and even a complete psychoanalysis
to discover all of the reasons for the con­
trary desire currents in your nature. You
may require psychoanalysis to discover the
form of the contrary currents, or even
that some of them actually exist.
However, you may be one of those for­
tunate persons whose life is simple and
whose desires are not so deeply involved in
cross-currents that you cannot control them.
You may be able consciously to bring to
focus on one purpose all of your free life
energy. If you are one of these fortunate
persons then by all means bring your life
into such a constructive focus and put your
whole heart into the task of accomplishing
the one great aim upon which you fix your
attention.
YOUR DESIRES 27
The practical way of going about this
is to train yourself to think about this one
purpose so pleasantly and with such power
that you will be able soon to think about it
most easily. You must get yourself trained
to the point where you will have to make
an effort to turn your attention away from
your life purpose. You must find it not only
the object of your labors but also the object
of your amusement and idle-time thinking.
Whenever you bring your life to such
a constructive focus you will soon discover
that there is a power, of both wisdom and
energy, that apparently has allied itself with
you for the achievement of these purposes.
You will find then, that whenever you un­
dertake to do something it is as if an in­
visible “giant” of superior wisdom were se­
cretly helping you. “Luck” seems to come
your way. Crooked paths become straight
28 THE SECRET POWER
and steep hills are leveled for your feet.
The strength of your arm is doubled and
your understanding is sharpened to cut
the hardest knots.
Ill
WHEN “THE GIANT”
WORKS FOR YOU
If you start out in life with a healthy
strong body, all your organs perfect, your
muscles strong, your nerves sensitive; if you
have a good appearance and a fine personal­
ity you find success easier to achieve, of
course because of these conditions. How­
ever, when “The Giant” works for you, when
THE SECRET POWER becomes very im­
portant in your life, your handicaps must be
very great indeed to make very much differ­
ence in the ultimate outcome. Sometimes it
seems that good physical, mental, and per­
sonal makeup act as handicaps rather than
helps, for life is so easy and pleasant with­
out effort that it is hard to get these natur-
30 THE SECRET POWER
ally fortunate persons to interest themselves
seriously in making very much out of life.
These children of fortune are likely to
develop dominant interests in cheap pleas­
ures. They unconsciously develop strong
conflicts between the various channels of ex­
pression of the desire to live. They really
live for the sake of pleasure and even their
ideals merely set up remoter pleasures to
strive for. They live for the sake of a good
time now and in the years to come, and look
forward to a good time forever, after they
die. Their whole lives become dedicated to
pleasure-seeking, here and hereafter.
One who suffers, one who knows defeat
and loss and who sinks into the depths of
despair, may be able to see life with a truer
perspective. He may see that his life-striv­
ing is a part of the creative purpose and
creative action. He may learn to realize
31
“THE GIANT" WORKS
that he is a part of the cosmos, that his
forces are cosmic forces and that whatever
is achieved through him is achieved by
cosmic power and for the purposes of a
cosmic plan.
This perception may never be a clearly
conscious one but it may be felt enough that
he can forget his little personal self a bit
and find the greater cosmic self that sleeps
through life in the secret heart of the aver­
age man. When any person has achieved
this consciousness in even a slight degree,
great misfortune may prove a blessing in
disguise and the basis of the consecration of
the life energies to the achievement of a
great desire.
To these, “The Giant” becomes a con­
stant companion, a dependable guide, and a
never failing assistant and THE SECRET
POWER is theirs to use without limit.
32 THE SECRET POWER
Let me tell you the story of a boy who
reached the very depths of the valley of de­
feat before he found THE SECRET POWER
and made friends with “The Giant.”
Ralph Roberts lived on the plains of
Canada near the Saskatchewan-Alberta line.
In June 1912 his back was injured by run­
away horses. From that time onward his
life was one of unremitting struggle with
pain and poverty. In spite of his courageous
struggles to regain health and to make him­
self independent, he became completely
paralyzed below the waist in February 1918,
and fruitless efforts to regain his health
through the services of the best physicians
he could find, had taken all of his money.
His friends sent him to a famous Sani­
tarium, where 14 months of treatment gave
“THE GIANT" WORKS 33
him no help but still did not convince him
that he could not get well.
At last he decided to try the Weltmer
Institute. His physicians endeavored to
dissuade him. They told him his case was
entirely hopeless and that if he left their
Sanitarium to go to Weltmer’s he could not
hope to live more than thx*ee weeks.
He had reached the bottom. High
medical authorities had told him he could
not live anyway and they had set a very
definite limit upon the length of his life if
he undertook to change his treatment. He
had exhausted the resources of his friends.
He was forced to try to earn his way by
embroidering sofa pillows as he lay on his
back or sat in his wheel chair, constantly
tortured with agonizing pain.
At the Sanitarium they had constructed
steel braces which could be fitted on his
34 THE SECRET POWER
body from his ankles to his chin. When
these braces were in place they could lean
him up against a wall or lead him around
somewhat after the fashion of a wooden man
and with the appropriate joints loosened he
could sit in his wheel chair with a minimum
of discomfort.
Life on such terms would not offer
much to many men, but Ralph Roberts had
never quit trying to get well and he was not
planning his life on the basis of the wheel
chair-steel-braces-sofa-pillows-and-pain com­
bination. He was still looking for health,
but he had reached the very bottom of the
valley of defeat. Another downward step
would take him into the dark river.
He came to the Weltmer Institute still
seeking for a way out.
Physically, he was not an unusually
responsive patient, but mentally and emo-
“THE GIANT” WORKS 35
tionally, he was ready for the teaching that
would give him THE SECRET POWER.
One day soon after he came, he sudden­
ly realized the truth of the statement “There
is a power which trusted and allowed to work
unhindered will heal all diseases”. He ac­
cepted The Power. He did not question and
argue with it. He did not try to understand
it. He accepted it, depended upon it, acted
on the assumption of its adequacy to meet
all his needs, all the demands he made up­
on it.
From that time he began to get well
and in three weeks from the time of his
coming to the Weltmer Institute, just about
the time the great physicians had told him
he would die, he walked.
Each step toward success made THE
POWER more real to him. He made con­
stant progress and it was not long until he
36 THE SECRET POWER
could discard all braces, crutches, and even
a cane and take up life again standing on his
own feet unaided, with his hands free to
work out his will to be master of his own
destiny.
He went to work again, at a bench, on
his lonely homestead in the wheat fields of
Alberta, anything that promised a way to
pay off his debts and make him independent
again. In spite of drowths and unfavorable
business conditions, even when his business
failed entirely, he found himself always
conscious of power to win, confident of his
ability to find a way out.
He had found THE SECRET POWER.
“The Giant” was ready to help when there
was really something for him to do. Ralph
Roberts’ problem was only one of finding the
right thing to do and of avoiding entangle­
ments with others that would make him
THE GIANT" WORKS 37
suffer for their weaknesses and lack of real­
ization.
He had married and the children were
coming- to be provided for. Lack of educa­
tion, heavy responsibilities, the loss of some
of the best years of his life and even com­
plete business failure, could not daunt this
man who had found THE SECRET POWER
and who knew that “The Giant” was friend­
ly and willing to back him up in every un­
dertaking.
He finally took up mimeographing, or­
ganized his business on the basis of service
to those who used mimeographed letters, and
set out to acquire enough education to carry
on his business. In spite of numerous set­
backs and all the difficulties that hamper a
new business he has made progress from
that day.
38 THE SECRET POWER
So long as he has depended only upon
himself and the friendly “Giant” he has
succeeded. He is now the proprietor of a
small mimeographing shop and the publisher
of a magazine.
He accepted THE SECRET POWER as
his to use. His life demonstrates as the life
of every other man will demonstrate, as
your life will demonstrate, when you accept
it, that this Secret Power Is Yours.
IV
THE POWER OF A HEALING
CONSCIOUSNESS
Henry Ruhmkorff lived in LaFayette
Indiana, one of the thriving cities that are
strung like beads along the Wabash river.
He lived among prosperous people and
he himself had done fairly well with his tin
shop until his wife fell sick. Doctors’ bills,
operations, hospital fees, and examinations
added to the expense of caring for a grow­
ing boy and providing for other family needs,
plunged him into debt. He came to feel af­
ter awhile, when the local hospital added a
new wing or bought new equipment for the
surgery, that he had paid for these improve­
ments. That was about the only satisfaction
he could get out of the situation for his wife
40 THE SECRET POWER
was all the time getting worse and he was
constantly going deeper in debt.
Finally, he heard of one of the Weltmer
students who was healing the desperately ill
without the use of medicines or surgery.
He took his wife to see the healer.
She responded to this treatment so
miraculously that he decided to study the
method and become a healer himself. He
sent for a Correspondence Course and before
the lessons were completed he had discover­
ed THE SECRET POWER, he had made
friends with “The Giant” and he was ready
to undertake to heal the sick. He began
healing and from the first he was successful.
Not only was he successful in healing others,
but he was able to still further improve his
wife’s health in spite of surgical scars and
injuries.
A HEALING CONSCIOUSNESS 41
His acceptance of THE SECRET POW­
ER not only made him successful as a healer,
but it also turned the tide of his affairs. In
course of time he was free from debt, the
owner of a fine home and a good automobile,
a contributor to worthy causes.
Furthermore, he has broadened the
range of his influence. He was one of the
important men in a movement to legalize
drugless healing in Indiana. His influence
reached to the Capitol.
Henry Ruhmkorff found the secret
power. He made friends with “The Giant”.
His wife is well, strong, and happy. His son
is finishing his studies in the university. He
is out of debt. He owns a fine home and a
fine automobile. He has a state-wide in­
fluence among important men. He has
helped to give his profession legal standing
44 THE SECRET POWER
great obstacles and occasional catastrophies
of unthinkable ages of time.
We live a few years of more or less
comprehending, all-encompassing life and
feel the pulse-beats of divine expression for
a time. Ours is only one thought in the In­
finite mind, one heart-beat of boundless love,
one surge of creative purpose, one glimpse
of the absolute.
You are a part of the limitless energy,
wisdom, life, and purpose of the cosmos.
Your power is a part of omnipotence, your
wisdom is a part of omniscience, your exis­
tence is a part of omnipresence. You are a
part of God’s Infinite cosmos. You are a
manifestation of God’s purpose, plan, and
power. The Kingdom of God is within you.
The power of God is yours to use. THE
SECRET POWER is yours.
THE WELTMER INSTITUTE
— 0 —
The W eltm er In stitu te is incorporated and chartered
under the lawo of M issouri to conduct a School, Sanitarium ,
and book publishing business.
THE W ELTM ER IN STITU TE PU BLICA TIO N S consist
of a num ber of books by S. A. W eltm er, and E rnest W eltm er,
for general sale, text-books for special use in personal classes,
and correspondence courses on P ractical Psychology, H ealing,
and the Philosophy of Life.
THE W ELTM ER IN STITU TE SCHOOL is both a resi­
dence and correspondence school. Its students are to be found
in most of the civilized countries of the world. Its teachings
have contributed to m any lines of hum an progress during the
last 30 years. Resident courses consist of instruction in Sug­
gestion Therapy leading to a Doctor’s degree and brief and
complete courses in C hristian H ealing. Its correspondence
courses give instruction in Suggestion Therapy, P ractical
Psychology, S elf-Interpretation and Realization, S piritual U n-
foldm ent, Metapsychology, etc. Full inform ation w ill be given
to any one interested in any of the W eltm er Institute courses
of instruction.
THE W ELTM ER IN STITU TE SANITARIUM is a home­
like, pleasant place to get well. I t draw s its patronage from
the whole world. Over 260,(M
)0 persons have benefitted by its
healing services. For those who cannot come to the Sanitarium
personally, an extension service of home treatm en t is given.
If you are sick, or suffering from any sort of chronic
disorder w rite today fo r diagnosis blank and full inform ation
regarding treatm ent by The W eltm er Sanitarium .
THE WELTMER INSTITUTE,
Nevada, Mo,
Address
!
SO U T H W E S T
N E V A
M A I L P R I N
DA. M I S S O U
T I N G C O .
R I
1
