{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__raizizun___occult_and_drugless_therapeutics.pdf","mytitle":"Occult And Drugless Therapeutics","mylang":"de"}
“Occult andDrugless
Therapeutics”
BY
YACKI RAIZIZUN
M
Author of “Your Personal Forces,” “The Secrets of
Dreams,” “The Science of Psychomancy,”
“The Psychology of Success,” Etc.
PUBLISHERS
OCCULT RESEARCH SOCIETY
Room 415—Chicago-Clark Building
800 North Clark Street
CHICAGO, U. S. A.
Copyright, 1924
by
YACKI RAIZIZUN
A
PR“ 8 *24
© C 1 A 7 7 8 7 5 2
J
TABLE OF CONTENTS
k
Concenration Magnetism_____________11
Conscious and Sub-conscious Mind____ 21
Mental Therapeutics________________ 31
Suggestive Therapeutics____________ 41
Scientific F asting___________________ 58
Science of Proper reathing__________68
Meat and Its Effects________________ 78
D rugs_____________________________ 86
Healing by Prayer_________________ 110
Miscellaneous Subjects ______ >
.______125
INTRODUCTION
To-day, Drugless Healing is again in its
infancy. It is not a new art, but a forgot­
ten truth, long-lost in the maze of our ma­
terialistic age. Hypocrites (about 450
B. C.) advocated and practiced it with
marvelous results. Paracelsus, an adept
physician, born in Switzerland in 1492, one
of the eminent practitioners of his day,
said: “I have discovered a great many se­
crets in nature, and I tell you that he can
only be a true physician who has acquired
a knowledge of the healing art and the
power to use it.” Paracelsus was ridiculed
by the physicians of his time, because his
knowledge of the hidden forces in nature
was beyond the comprehension of his col­
leagues.
Galen, a noted physician of Asia Minor,
born about 131 B. C., gave abundant proof
of certain forces in nature which healed.
5
If we search the records of antiquity we
will find many additional records of drug­
less healing.
To-day, the different schools of drugless
healing, such as Christian Science, Mental
and Spiritual Therapeutics, are, in their
separate phases, simply fragments of a
truth forgotten.
The ideal physician and healer of the fu­
ture will be he who is conscious of the finer
forces in nature and be able to direct them
as he wills. The doctor will then be the
true healer and he will not require a satchel
to carry his drugs, for nature which sur­
rounds him will be his servant.
Materialistic Medical Science, which
bases its knowledge on known physical
laws, claims that healing, other than by
physical methods, is not practical or scien­
tific. In fact the drugless practitioner is
branded as a charlatan. This is quite nat­
ural, as Medical Science is ignorant of the
6
finer forces in nature, and as such wall re­
main until she evolves a consciousness of
them.
Medical Science has caused many un­
practical and unscientific names to be ap­
plied to the various schools of Occult Heal­
ing, due to her inability to understand
their methods. These different branches
of Occult Therapeutics have performed
marvelous cures, not only in the past, but
also of to-day (unquestionably proved and
a matter of open record), and as this
knowledge becomes more generally known
in the future, the skeptic and know-it-all
(who very often uses these finer forces un­
consciously in the healing of disease) will
have to admit the existence of its efficacy,
for truth alone survives.
Requisites of the Healer
FIRST: Knowledge. A mere belief
in the finer forces of nature, or reading lit­
erature on the subject, is not sufficient.
7
The healer must have a conscious knowl­
edge of these forces and understand how to
intelligently direct them.
SECOND: An intense desire to be help­
ful to suffering humanity. Love and sym­
pathy for all, without, however, losing posi­
tiveness, which is very essential to the
healer.
THIRD: Purity of living. A good healer
must live a perfectly chaste life. He who
intends to heal and touch women must be
master of his emotions. The emotions are
forces which the wise healer will use ad­
vantageously. He who is a slave to his pas­
sions will not succeed as a healer.
FOURTH: He must of necessity have a y
knowledge of anatomy.
FIFTH: Clairvoyance or Clear Seeing.
This may be divided into two distinct
classes, viz.: Low and high. The low is
connected with ordinary mediumship. It
8
is also to be found in lower animals. It
has its chief expressions through the sym­
pathetic nerve-center. It is limited in its
scope.
SIXTH: Clairvoyance, the higher. This
is connected with the cerebral-spinal. It is
the results of definite training, purity of
life, daily meditation on different virtues,
such as purity, chastity, love, etc. These
are the chief factors that hasten its devel­
opment. The doctor of the future will be
clairvoyant. He will be able to see into
physical matter as clearly as the X-Ray.
SEVENTH: Intuition. This faculty is
sometimes called the sixth sense. It is more
or less dormant in our present humanity,
but like any other faculty which is lacking
in development, it may be evolved. The
physician of the future will use his intuition
with his clairvoyant sight.
9
PART I.
CONCENTRATION
Concentration means holding the mind
one-pointed. It may be defined as the
focusing of interested attention for the
time being, one thought subject or object
receiving the exclusive attention of the
mind. The habit of our wandering
thoughts may be overcome by practice. At
first it will seem impossible to the begin­
ner for in the early stages it is hard to con­
trol our thoughts. By repeated efforts we
gradually gain dominion over them, and
our strength grows every time we try to
master them.
The student of Mental Therapeutics
must also learn to over come outside
thoughts by cultivating his own thinking.
By a systematic effort, you must build up
a spiritual body of thought for yourself,
by thinking Truth till it becomes part of
your mind.
The beginner will find it to his advan-
11
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
tage to sit down in a straight back chair,
neck and chest in a line. Let the upper
part of your body rest on your ribs, relax
mentally and physically, taking a few deep
slow breaths. This has the tendency to
bring about that calm, restful state of mind
which is essential to success.
Now, turn the mind to some thought,
subject or object selected before hand, and
consider it attentively, never allowing your
thoughts to falter even for a fraction of a
second. Every time your thoughts wander,
you must drag them back and control them.
You must be master of your mind. This
priceless faculty cannot be bought or given
to anyone. Every one who wishes to
succeed must master this art himself. Re­
member that the power to master lies
within yourself.
To develope this faculty is to bring the
restless mind under control, and with this
accomplished we acquire poise and self con­
trol. The mind becomes a powerful in­
strument for the person who can control
and direct it. The will of men who can
12
CONCENTRATION
properly concentrate, is one of the most
powerful forces in existence. He does
what he wills to do, and in thus doing, he
illustrates one of the fundamental laws of
nature.
You, the thinker, are responsible to your­
self for the alertness, harmony and health,
which your thoughts express through
every cell of your body. If it is not normal
and healthy, you can make it so by think­
ing constructively, and holding the picture
of health and strength clearly in your
mind. Your thoughts determine your
state of health more than you have any
idea of; you can, and do think yourself
into a state of disease. And the environ­
ment in which you live is the sum total of
your thoughts.
Every cell in our bodies is thought incar­
nate. We silently build our bodies daily
with the material we have created, and
thereby change ourselves and conditions
by thinking constructively. As long as we
keep our old thoughts of disease in con­
sciousness, we shall be sure to manifest
13
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
ancl express old conditions. The more we
think of disease, failure and “I can’t”, the
more negative and unprogressive we be­
come.
Magnetism
This force or energy comes from the sun.
We may be said to literally live, move and
have our being, in a physical sense, in the
sun. This force, or energy, enters the
etheric spleen with every inhalation of the
breath. As it enters the spleen, the solar
plexus draws it to itself with every exhala­
tion, and from the solar plexus, it travels
along the nerves to the sacred plexus situa­
ted at the extreme end of the spine, and to
the cardinal plexus, the core of the brain.
These are the three main centers of the
human body. From the cardinal plexus,
this life energy traverses the nerves of the
head. Again on the downward path it /
passes through to the psychic center situ-*
ated between the eye-brows. Then it tra­
verses the nerves of the face; then the
bronchial center, the throat front; the pul­
monary center; the upper chest and lungs;
14
CONCENTRATION
the lower lung center, seated above the
heart; the vital and generatic center,
seated at the base fo the stomach; and so
this life energy makes the circuit of the
nerves until it gradually works its way out
through the pores of the skin.
When a man’s vitality is low, it is be­
cause he is lacking in the force or energy.
In winter, when there is no sun for a few
days, old people, who are feeble and whose
vitality is low, generally die in the early
hours of the morning, between 11 P. M.
and 5 A. M. This also explains how by re­
tiring two hours before midnight, you re­
tain more vitality while lying in bed, and
thus recuperate the physical body. This
fluid also acts as a sort of cement for
building and assimilating the nutriment of
the food after a meal. If the body uses a
greater quantity than ordinarily, its over­
flow is not as great after a meal as before.
This explains why an overindulgence in
food is the direct cause of Colds, Asthma,
etc, due to the fact that the superfluous
matter cannot leave the body through the
pores of the skin with sufficient force to
15
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
wash away the deleterious matter such as
poisonous gases, etc.
This fluid also makes your Aura. As we
move about we are continually throwing
off this aura in the shape of stars and
other geometrical shapes.
It is by these physical plane particles,
that a dog is able to follow his master and
to identify him by the garments he has
worn.
In this way bloodhounds are able to trace
daring criminals. A trained human could
do the same more accurately, but in our
present stage of civilization, we place more
confidence in animals than we do in mor­
tals.
For Curing Headache and Other Ailments.
The magnetic healer places his patient in
a chair or reclining couch. Keeping the
patient’s eyes closed and his mind as calm
as possible, he stands behind his patient,
places his hands over his right and left tem­
ples (not too much pressure on the temples),
and his middle finger between the eye-
16
CONCENTRATION
brows, which is the psychic center. Think­
ing harmoniously of love, sympathy, etc.,
enables him to get into an harmonious vi­
bration with the patient. He then draws
more of this life fluid to him, by taking a
few slow, deep breaths every ten minutes
or so, and as he wills it, this force rushes
through his hands, and washes away all
the impure matter which may be the cause
of the headache, or other ailments.
The center that is nearest the pain is the
one to concentrate on. (For instance, in
case of kidney trouble, the healer must
place his hands on the second joint up
from the sacred plexus, at the extreme end
of the spine.) For Asthma, treat the pul­
monary, and bronchial center.
The healer must also concentrate on the
centers according to the seat of the
disease, as stated above. This will draw
the patient’s own magnetism to the afflicted
parts, which will be very helpful in effect­
ing a cure. First, you must use your
imagination. Imagine there is a bright
light covering the center you are working
17
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
on; see it throwing bright rays of light
towards the afflicted parts and penetrating
every cell. First it will be purely imagina­
tion, but with persistent practice, it will
become a reality.
It is the same white light that the Chris­
tian Scientists use when they see their pa­
tients enveloped in it, they will call it
(God’s) presence. In this they are correct
from their point of view, for we know God
is Omnipresence. In Occultism this is
called Akasha, of which ether is its gross­
est form.
The patient will often have a feeling of
warmth on the center you are concentra-
ing upon. You may also use this white
light to see the patient enveloped in it.
While you are doing this always take a
few deep breaths through the nostrils,
slowly, without straining yourself. How­
ever, if the healer is ruptured he should not
practice deep breathing.
For magnetising water, the healer holds
a half wine glass of water in his left hand.
He swings his right hand, backwards and
forwards for a few minutes, until he feels
18
CONCENTRATION
a tingling sensation in his finger tips.
Then he makes downward passes over the
glass and wills that his magnetism flow
therein. The patient may then drink it
slowly. This often has a very stimulating
effect.
Another good stimulant is to make down­
ward passes over the patient with your
fingers open, (not stiff). When bringing
the hands up turn the palms towards you.
If not, you take the magnetism from the
patient again. By placing your right hand
on the patients head, and your left on the
sole of the feet, (which is the electric
center)' great benefits may be derived.
This sends a magnetic sensation through
the patient.
One must be very careful in choosing *
his magnetic healer, for the healer actually
projects part of his life fluid into his
patient. This life fluid carries the faults
and frailties of the healer. This fluid
which circulates the nerves may be very
easy for a sensitive person to take on the
19
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
faults of the healer. One’s character may-
even be changed.
Hypnotism or Mesmerism, should never
be used at any time for curing diseases, un­
less it is for a necessary surgical operation.
Then it must be done by a competent op­
erator. Hypnotism or Mesmerism, if con­
tinually practiced on a sick person, weak­
ens their power of resistance and the sick
man may become a slave to the operator.
Even after the man has passed from the
physical body Hypnotism may effect his
will power. Beware of Hypnotism or Mes­
merism for healing purposes.
PART II.
CONSCIOUS A N D SUB-CONSCIOUS
M IND
The nature of the mind of man may be
said to be related to three states of con­
sciousness, viz.: Super-consciousness, Self
or waking consciousness, and Sub-con­
sciousness.
This does not mean to infer that man
has three minds, but that these various
states of consciousness are co-existent.
The Super-conscious state is that which
is above Self or waking consciousness.
From the Super-conscious regions comes
the impulses which are sometimes called
the promtings of geniuses.
The Self or waking consciousness is that
which we find in or through the brain.
You are reading this Book, therefore your
consciousness is centered on that which is
before you. In this Self-conscious state
there is a vast difference between the
genius and the street sweeper. The same
21
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
thing might be presented to both, but'the
power of perceiving the qualities of that
which is presented would depend on the
education, or evolution, of the faculties of
each for perceiving them.
The Sub-conscious is the state behind
consciousness. The Sub-conscious mind is
the store house for all actions of the past,
good, bad and indifferent. In fact it may
be said to be a real entity and that we feed
and nourish it with our conscious thoughts.
If our conscious thoughts are negative,
such as fear, doubt, disease, worry, and “I
can’t,” we are paving the way for mental,
physical and spiritual retrogression.
We are the makers and directors of our
own destiny according to the thoughts we
harbor in consciousness. We cannot es­
cape our creations, for like an obedient
servant, the sub-conscious mind will carry
out the thoughts of the conscious mind.
Everything we think of consciously passes
on to the Sub-conscious mind, and we bring
it out into physical manifestation.
The Sub-conscious mind is also the con-
22
CONSCIOUS AND SUB-CONSCIOUS MIND
troller of the involuntary actions and func­
tions of the human body, by way of the
sympathetic nervous system. The entire
process of nutrition, including digestion
and assimilation, etc., also the process of
elimination and circulation, are under the
control of the Sub-conscious mind.
As our food is digested and assimilated
for tissue and cell building, it is carried to
all parts of the body, where it is absorbed
by the cells and used to replace the worn-
out material. The latter is then carried
out to the veins and lungs, where the waste
matter is burned up, and the remains sent
through the arteries and resharged with
life-giving energies. All these processes,
and many more, are under the direct con­
trol of the Sub-conscious mind. ,
,r
.
— «
The Sub-conscious mind is not confined
to the brain, to any of the plexuses, or to
the nervous system, but extends to every
part of the body, to every nerve, muscle,
cell, and group of cells in the entire body.
The nervous functions of the human
body are the results of certain actions of
23
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
some kind or degree, therefore they are
analyzed or classified as Sub-conscious
mind.
The Sub-conscious mind does not extend
its activities to the brain alone. The brain
cells are that mechanism of the mind
which expresses the sum total of our con­
scious existence, whereas the Sub-consci­
ous mind is in the entire physical body.
There is mind in every organ, nerve, and
muscle in the physical body. In short an
Occultist knows that man not only has a
physical body, but that he also has an
astral and a mental body. This mental or
mind body acts as a vehicle for thought,
and thus it is distributed to every cell of
the make up of man. It carries out the
thoughts and Sub-conscious suggestions of
an individual, and is also subject to the
suggestions of other people as well.
When we realize that the Sub-conscious
mind is the controller, of our bodies, and
accepts as truth, the conscious or uncon­
scious suggestions of its owner, as well as
the suggestions from others, we begin to
24
CONSCIOUS AND SUB-CONSCIOUS MIND
comprehend the effects of mind cure, faith
cure, and other mental Therapeutic meth­
ods of healing.
The Sub-consciousness is the sum total
of all our thoughts and feelings and of all
the mutual activities of the mind from
infancy.
Before you can clearly comprehend the
Sub-conscious mind, it must be understood
that mental forces organize into concrete
forms on the mental plane, just as physical
forces aggregate themselves into material
forms on the physical plane.
The mind, then, is a mental body. It is
an intensifying power. It is the sum total
of the character of a person, and just as
soon as it becomes a positive character, it
changes the hereditary form of the flesh,
to express its own development.
This explains why negative and weak-
minded people are always subject to dis­
ease and imaginary ailments. A negative
mind has not the power to transform the
flesh, therefore it is the duty of the self­
healer to develop a firm, positive attitude
25
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
of mind by positive affirmation. This can
be developed by mental or verbal auto-sug­
gestions.
When a thought or idea has been ex­
pressed by the conscious mind, it still ex­
ists in minute form in the Chitta (Thought
waves of the mind). The more powerful
the suggestions the more lasting the effect
and the quicker the cure. ,
Your conscious mind has dominion over
the flesh, and by limiting your beliefs, you
cause most of your bodily ailments.
All your past thinking has formed your
present mind body, which now governs
your physical organism and it must be re­
generated and transformed into a positive
concrete form which will eliminate all that
is a detriment to your physical, mental and
spiritual well-being.
The Sub-conscious mind is the governor
and controller of all the vital processes of
the physical body. The mental and verbal
suggestions, truly and firmly established in
the Sub-conscious mind, are the seeds
which will become manifest in the physical
26
CONSCIOUS AND SUB-CONSCIOUS MIND
body. However, this change of mind can­
not be brought in a day, for our old
thoughts die hard. This change can be
gradually brought about by continued sug­
gestion, education and growth.
You are as unlimited and negative as
your source, and you can think yourself
into higher, grander, and loftier expres­
sions for expressing more life. When this
state is attained you will feel the subtle re­
building works of Him in Whom we live,
move, and have our being.
The following quotation from Doctor
Scofield: “It has often been a mystery how
the human body thrives so well with so
little attention or care on the part of its
owner.
“NO machine could be so constructed,
nor could any combinations of liquids in
organic compounds, regulate, control, coun­
teract, help, hinder or arrange for the con­
tinual succession of different events, such
as food, surroundings, and the conditions
which are continually effecting the body,
and yet in the midst of this ever changing
27
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
and varying successions of influences, the
body holds on to its course growth, health,
nutrition and self-maintenance with the
most marvelous persistency.
“This regulation, control, governing, etc.,
can only be traced to the mental power of
the mind. In other words, it is nothing
else than the tremendous powers of the
Sub-conscious mind which controls, guides
and governs the functions of the human
body.”
Upon the activities of the Sub-conscious
mind, depends all the processes of physical
life.
When we study the influences which the
mental has upon our physical conditions
then the truth dawns upon us that our
physical conditions are merely the reflec­
tions of the mind. We therefore arrive
at this profound truth: that all disease of
the flesh is the result of an uneasy mind.
Either by the direct influence of some
negative person, who can only see dis­
aster in everything, or by the negative
mode of our own daily life. It is within
28
CONSCIOUS AND SUB-CONSCIOUS MIND
the grasp of all to strengthen their mind
and thereby eliminate fear, doubt, and
disease of all kind.
In the Sub-conscious mind are the hidden
agents which heal (the sum total of our
conscious thoughts) but these must be
trained towards the healing of the body.
There are two methods whereby the Sub­
conscious mind may be trained to heal.
First, the method applied by the drug doc­
tor. When taking the drug you believe in
the medicine, plus the personality of the
doctor. Your belief is the cure. It creates
the condition in the Sub-conscious mind,
which is the true healer.
The drug may stop the sensation of pain,
but it will not cure the cause, and the sys­
tem will be weakened in its efforts to throw
off the poison. The doctor cannot cure you
if you do not believe in him.
The second method is by the conscious
and continual denial of that which ails
you, whereby the Subconscious mind is
trained and educated to turn its dormant
powers to the healing and rebuilding of
29
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
the diseased parts of the body. This
method, if persistently applied, will elim­
inate many physical and mental ailments.
If the person suggesting believes that
there is nothing deeper than his Self-con­
scious mind, he will, by repeated sugges­
tions, reach the very depth of his being
the self or I Am. The I Am is the very
foundation of our being upon which we
build our mental habitation.
We affirm, “I Am life,” because our soul
is eternal life. We affirm, “I Am health,
peace and perfection,” because the real “I,”
the true individual, the Self, is potentially
the health and perfection of the Deity.
30
*
PART III.
M ENTAL TH ERAPEUTICS
The part Mental Therapeutics plays in
healing diseases borders on the realm of
the miraculous. It is simply the operation
of one mind over another. It is based on
the knowledge that minds are not distant
and separate, but are united by one Uni­
versal Mind (God), of which each individ­
ual unit is an organized part. Man’s mind
and the Great Universal Mind is one.
We are all living in a great sea of vi­
brating mind. The body is held in active
organization by the mind. Mind is the or­
ganizing power. Every cell in the body is
a particle of mind substance. The cells of
flesh are the bodies of thought. Every cell
in the body is thought incarnate. The or­
gans, which are made up of a great multi­
tude of cells, can be controlled by the posi­
tive mind of the individual. They can be
changed by constructive thoughts so that
the cells and organs will progress to a de-
31
.
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
gree of intelligence and manifest health
and strength as the individual becomes
more and more conscious of the tremen­
dous power of mind over matter.
Thought infused into the flesh makes it
healthy and strong so it will resist disease
of its own volition. Every action of the
body is caused by the mind. There is a
living force or energy in thought. We
know that mind and matter are interde­
pendent. Mind can and does control matter.
We can consciously and intelligently direct
the forces of our thoughts to any organ
in the body and so change the cells or or­
gans with these positive thoughts to elimi­
nate all impurities.
Man’s mind and the great Universal
Mind is one. The golden reel is his
thoughts. As these instruments, called
thoughts, reach out towards the apparent­
ly undifferentiated sea of Universal Mind,
and there, with the thought line links itself,
it then creates through suggestion and rec­
ognition, the most of our manifested en­
vironment.
82
MENTAL THERAPEUTICS
By identifying ourselves with the quali­
ties which radiate from Divine Mind, and
offering it to our own being as the quantity
that belongs to all intelligences, we will
build up a positive, constructive force of
mind, that will in time overcome every neg­
ative condition of the body.
The mind may in this way be trained to
have a strong and substantial faith in its
own powers. The more we persistently
affirm what we know to be true the more
positive and powerful our faith becomes.
If we earnestly and persistently plant the
seeds of power, health, etc., and have per­
fect confidence that in time these seeds will
bring wholesome fruitage, the powers of
the truly constructive mind are impartial
and will operate and accomplish that which
we are desirous of achieving.
There is a great power stored in the
mental spaces all about and within the
mind of man; far more powerful than elec­
tricity. And this power is being redis­
covered and applied in suggestion and
thought transference, to restore to normal
33
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
harmony the mental, emotional and
physical bodies of those who are ailing.
There is more intelligent activity going
on in the body than we are conscious of.
All the involuntary actions of the body,
such as the beating of the heart and the
circulation of the blood. Every action of
the various sub-brains or nerve plexuses
located in every part of the body are car­
ried on by the instinctive operation of the
mind. There is a tremendous amount of
intelligence in these little cells. They are
very sensitive to suggestion and as we
gradually gain control over these sub­
conscious centers of mental activity we in
time gain dominion over the whole body.
It is also important for us to know that
we grow like that which we think or study.
As the Master said: “As a man thinketh
in his heart, so is he.”
To Give Mental Treament
The mental healer places his patient in
a chair or reclining couch, bidding him to
be as restful and receptive as possible.
Bidding the patient to be mentally calm;
34
MENTAL THERAPEUTICS
holding thoughts of peace, receptivity, etc.,
creates harmony in the mental, emotional
and physical bodies. The mental healer
stands a few feet behind his patient and
produces by suggestion to the receptive
mind of the patient the condition he is de­
sirous of eliminating or creating.
It is most essential that the mental
healer has a consciousness of the keynote
to which the patient vibrates. The chances
of the right keynote being struck, he at­
tunes his mind to that of the patient, using
powerful suggestions of health, such as “I
am implanting in your receptive conscious­
ness the seeds of health wT
hich wT
ill become
manifest. You are perfect. You are well.
The ailment has left you.” Here name the
ailment and also the patient’s name.
As the healer creates and uses these
mental suggestions he sees the ailment
leaving the patient and visualizes him in
perfect health.
“The Mental Scientist,” says Anna Be-
sant, “needs, in order to give proper treat­
ment, not only concentration of thought
35
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
and physiological knowledge, but clairvoy­
ance as well. If he is treating a gunshot
wound in the hand he needs to see exactly
what the corresponding muscle in the pa­
tient’s other hand looks like, in order that
he may make in his own mental body a per­
fect mental picture of it. After he has
done this he projects that picture into the
brain of the patient.” The vibration thus
set up runs down the nervous tract to the
seat of the injury and thus is built up a
perfect picture of the healthy tissue, first
in astral mater, then in etheric matter and
finally the body itself builds in the dense
particles of physical matter which are
required for the restoration of the muscles
to complete the tissue. The healer must
supply the model. Nature does the
rest.
The Mental Scientist or self-healer, who
comprehends the different states of mind
and its power, knows that each concen­
trated thought creates a form in the psy­
chic atmosphere. Thoughts are real enti­
ties and when infused with life they can be
seen by one who is clairvoyant. They may
MENTAL THERAPEUTICS
be sent on an errand of mercy or destruc­
tion. Intelligent and powerful thought
force inter-penetrates space and con­
sciously or unconsciously controls the men­
tal vehicle of the receptive patient. When
a mental treatment is acknowledged by the
patient as a reality, the most astonishing
results often follow. Abundant proof of
this may be found in daily life.
Were it not for the power of imagina­
tion many of the poisonous drugs given to
the sick would send them to an early grave.
The belief which the patient has in the
drug creates (consciously or unconscious­
ly) the mental picture of health sought for.
Naturally the more faith there is the more
important part it plays in the restoration
of bodily health.
Absent Treatment
Absent treatment can be scientifically ex­
plained by the use of Mental Telepathy.
The same substance, air or ether, fills the
so-called vacant space in which we exist.
The ether acts as a vehicle for trans­
mitting thoughts. The Mental Healer pro-
37
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
ceeds the same way as if his patient were
present. When the thoughts or sugges­
tions leave the brain cells of the operator
they vibrate in ether, according to the
force of concentration. This etheric vibra­
tion manifests or materializes in the bodily
functions of the patient.
The powerful thought waves started by
the sender will find a resting place in the
brain cells of the receptive patient. These
thought forms enter the human organism
by ways of the pineal gland. It is always
best, when treating absently, to acquaint
the patient as to the time you are going to
treat him. Holding an article in your hand
which the patient has worn, such as a ring
or handkerchief, enables you to get in rap­
port with your patient. Also a photograph
of the sick person may be used. In such
cases the healer proceeds in precisely the
same way as though the patient were in
the room. If possible, take the time when
you think the patient’s mind is unoccupied.
If he is asleep, all the better. At such a
time, sit down alone, or if there are others
in the room there must be harmony and
38
MENTAL THERAPEUTICS
sympathy. Now picture, as vividly as pos­
sible, the image of the patient sitting or
standing in front of you. Then fix your
attention on this image and firmly address
it with all the earnestness and sincerity at
your command, using the suggestion that
he is getting better.
If the patient is asleep, he will be drawn
toward you in his astral body, for the spir­
it must leave the body before there is any
sleep. The astral body can be seen by the
individual who has envolved his clairvoy­
ant sight. Whether the healer can see
clairvoyantly or not, the astral body of his
patient will be drawm to him.
Success depends upon the power of con­
centration and steadfastness of thought.
When the healer draws the astral body of
his patient before him, as stated above,
he proceeds to treat him for any ailment,
just the same as if the patient were be­
fore him in waking consciousness. In fact
the healer can get better results when
treating his patient in this manner, for the
mind is more receptive in this condition
39
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
than in waking consciousness. Great pre­
caution should be taken not to influence
the patient’s will.
Self Treatment
In self treatment the person must hold
the conscious thought, or fixed idea, of
the condition he or she wishes to bring
about. Example. Nervousness seems to
be the prevailing ailment among the
masses of today. This may be traced
directly to worry and fear. Harboring
such negative thoughts, naturally weakens
a person mentally and physically. The
first thing to be done by a person suffer­
ing from nervousness is to start at once
to cultivate thoughts of confidence, cour­
age, strenght, hope peace, etc.
40
PART IV.
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS.
Suggestive Therapeutics must not be con­
fused with Hypnotic Suggestion or Hyp­
notism, the dangers of which I have
warned my readers in the first of these
lessons.
In Suggestive Therapeutics, the treat­
ments are given to the mind of the patient
by means of verbal suggestions, which
sometimes have more desirable effects on
the patient than mental suggestions.
The person sending the verbal sugges­
tions must direct a positive thought force
to the mind of his patient. The healer
who has evolved his intuition will know
how to proceed when giving, either ver­
bal or mental suggestions.
Suggestive Therapeutics means to im­
plant into the receptive mind of your pa­
tient, the condition which you may not be
able to create in his mind by mental sug-
41
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
gestion, which is based on the law of Men­
tal Telepathy.
Treatment
The healer induces his patient to be very
calm and quiet. The patient should also
give his undivided attention, without how­
ever, surrendering his self-will to the
healer. The patient should be told to ac­
cept, digest and assimilate the meaning of
the words which are being suggested to
him. The healer should assert all the pow­
er of his feelings, earnestness and intensity
into his voice. By so doing, he causes an
intense vibration which can be felt by his
patient. His tone should vibrate with all
the intensity of his being, (without shout­
ing, however).
Healing by Suggestive Therapeutics can
be evolved only by persistent practice on
the part of the healer, who wishes to make
use of this method of healing.
The patient should be placed on an easy
chair or couch, and made to relax men­
tally, emotionally and physically. While in
42
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS
this relaxed condition, have him close his
eyes and hold the conscious thought of
“I am peaceful, I am quiet, etc.” In a
short time these suggestions will have the
desired effects.
The healer should stand in front of his
patient, and again and again suggest to
him the thoughts he wishes to implant in
his mind. For nervous breakdown the
healer should begin in this way; “Now
Mrs. S. or Mr. S. (as the case may be),
you are sitting and resting quietly; you
are calm from head to foot; You are calm,
restful and quiet. Your mind is quiet and
composed, and you are allowing my healing
suggestions to sink deep, and deeper into
your subconscious mind.”
With the harmonious thoughts of the
patient, co-operating with the vibrations
set up by the healer, the vibratory cur­
rents produced, will pass through the
emotional, to the physical, and harmonize
the whole body. Many nervous diseases
and a large number of digestive troubles
43
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
and disturbances of the circulation, may
be cured by this method of treatment.
In the treatment of different ailments,
the healer should always make a mental
picture of the condition he wishes to create
in his patient. These mental pictures should
be made while he is using some force­
ful suggestions. In this way, the sub-con­
scious mind is educated and influenced to
turn its wonderful powers to the healing
of the diseased parts of the body.
If there is harmony and faith between
the healer and his patient, and if this meth­
od is persistently applied, it will bring
about wonderful results. The process of
suggestive thoughts, added to the force of
the human will, can and does eliminate
many diseases.
The secret of this method of treatment
lies in the thought behind the words. To
whatever degree the thought is accepted,
assimilated and digested by the patient,
and by the healer adding to this his verbal
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS
suggestions, (which has an added effect),
in time the condition he wishes to create
in the mind of his patient, will become
manifest in the body.
When giving a suggestive treatment the
healer should never refer to the disease of
which his patient is afflicted. His aim
must be to draw his mind away from his
ailment, and to ignore it as much as pos­
sible.
Never make a negative suggestion.
For instance; never suggest or hold the
conscious thought, such as, “You are look­
ing poorly, or you look so sickly.” Let
your suggestions be: “How you have im­
proved, or how well you look.” Never
repeat the name of the disease or the con­
dition you wish to cure. By referring
to the ailment, you direct the patient’s
attention to it, whereas your aim should
be to have him deny it. Remember that
the mind of a sick man is more receptive
to that which ails him, and one sugges-
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
tion made to his ailment, may do much
harm. We little know the power of mind,
or the far reaching effects of suggestion,
consciously or unconsciously.
I here quote a remarkable case of un­
conscious suggestion:
By Spectator, Chicago Herald Examiner,
August 22, 1921.
“A curious medical case recently occured
in Europe. A certain Mr. L. who lived
in a French village near the Pyrenees
Mountains was bitten by a dog. The first
thing that occurs to everyone in such an
instance is that the animal is mad. This
man, being of a very highly strung nature,
was at once greatly alarmed. He was
taken to the Pasteur Institute at Bordeaux
for treatment, as the Pasteur method has
a great reputation for preventing rabies.
After a few days he was sent home, but
fearing that he was not entirely cured, he
returned to Bordeaux for further atten­
tion. Again he was pronounced as being
46
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS
fully recovered and sent back home. Then
a few days later the paper announced he
had died of rabies.
He did die, but not of rabies. He was
literally scared to death by his own un­
controlled imagination.
The dog was found to be free of any dis­
ease, and it was proven that his bite could
not have induced madness. The trouble
with this man was that he was of a ner­
vous temperament, aggravated by shell
shock caused by the war. In this case the
man became a prey to his own suggestions
that he was afflicted with the rabies. He
went mad, just the same way as he would
have done had he really been inflicted with
the rabies.
A few days before his death, his face
assumed a brutal expression. He would
clap his jaws after the manner of a wild
animal, growl and bark like a dog. He
asked to be muzzled. The horrible obses­
sion grew stronger in his impressionable
47
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS'
mind and his will and reasoning powers
were paralyzed before it, and at last he
gave way to the paroxysm in which he
died.
The attending physician declared “that
his death was wholly due to auto-sugges­
tion.”
In the above statement it shows the tre­
mendous powers of the mind, and how it
may be utilized unconsciously for causing
death. If man knew the power of con­
scious mind over matter, and would con­
stantly hold the reverse thought to that of
disease, he would undoubtedly regain per­
fect health.
Self Suggestion
As a man thinketh so he becomes. Much
of pain and disease is the picture of
negative thoughts and beliefs. Purity of
thought, words and deeds are absolutely
essential to physical and moral well-being.
A man’s physical health is largely due to
his thoughts, plus his diet.
Fear is one of the greatest causes of
48
%
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS
disease. It may not be called a disease,
but it really is the worst of all diseases.
A fear thought will break down the phys­
ical and mental organism quicker than a
real disease. It paralyzes the will and
leaves the individual with little power of
resistance.
A fear thought has been known to cause
the hair to turn white in a single hour.
With the added power of imagination, it
may misform the bones of an unborn babe.
It is also the cause of many contagious
diseases. Cholera epidemics are believed
to have been largely due to the fear of it.
At times when epidemics of different con­
tagious diseases have broken out among
workers, those who had no fear of the
disease, rarely, if ever, were stricken
with it.
By driving out thoughts of fear, you
are removing one of the principal causes
of disease. Self suggestion of thoughts of
fearlessness, will create a new condition of
mind. Fear thoughts can be counter-acted
by the thoughts of “I am fearless” sug-
49
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
gested daily, and as the individual breathes
life into these suggestions, they will take
form in action, and the expression of fear­
lessness will be brought into physical man­
ifestation.
Every cell in the body responds to sug­
gestions. By persistent suggestions to the
Sub-conscious mind, in time every cell and
organ in the body, will take on the con­
ditions which you have commanded of it.
Methods for Self Treatments
The first requisite of the self healer is
faith, Paul said: “Faith is the substance
of the thing desired.” The person who
believes he can cure himself, for him the
battle is half won. By applying strong men­
tal suggestions of “I am perfect health, I
am health. My body is perfect, etc.,” we
will in time create the desired results. By
sitting in the silence for ten or fifteen min­
utes daily and affirming the condition you
wish to create, in a short time you will
realize that which you desire. Suggest
the germ of peace and perfect repose into
every cell of your body. It is within your
50
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS
power to control every cell organ and
muscle, and bid them to be at peace, per­
fect peace. If this method is faithfully
followed, and persistently applied, it will
bring about marvelous results.
Constipation
Great benefits can be realized by mas­
saging the body back and front with the
hands, while holding the conscious thought
of, “My bowels are active, active; they
will move.” And here you should name
a certain hour. Drinking a liberal quan­
tity of water and eating soft foods is also
very beneficial.
In the morning, while lying flat on your
back, move the limbs in the same manner
as though you were riding a bicycle. In
many cases this exercise will cause the
bowels to move almost immediately. This
exercise should not be done too vigorously;
a minute or two is sufficient.
Deny Mental Weakness
Deny the imperfect and affirm the per­
fect. Man is the creator of his body, and
51
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
he builds and repairs it with his conscious
and sub-conscious thoughts. The human
battery of mental energy may generate
thoughts which can be constructive or des­
tructive to the human organism. Destruc­
tive thoughts, such as anger, jealousy, hat­
red, envy, etc., produce negative forces.
They transform the food elements into
poisonous compounds. Scientific tests have
proved this. All the destructive thoughts
must be cleansed from the mind by affirm­
ing thoughts of truth, love, and life. Con­
structive thoughts are creative. By deny­
ing all our old habits which we know to
be a detriment, we create a force which
dissolves from the sub-conscious and con­
scious mind, all the negative, destructive
forces, which cause inharmony and create
mental discord.
The best results are attained by con­
stantly denying old conditions. Suggest
earnestly and persistently the conditions
you are desirous of creating. As you
use these silent auto-suggestions, breathe
life into them. At first they will disturb
the mental mechanism of the mind and this
52
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS
will cause a gloomy condition for a short
time. But as these strong denials are
followed up with powerful, constructive,
peaceful, and harmonious affirmations, a
perfect condition of mind will become
manifest.
Menstruation
Cases of painful menstruation are often
regulated by persistent auto-suggestions by
the patient. Example: Let the patient con­
centrate her mind upon the time when men­
struation should occur. About two weeks
before the regular time, let her daliy affirm
of the day and hour upon which menstru­
ation should occur. Let her suggest to her­
self every night upon retiring, that the fol­
lowing day is going to bring her nearer
to the condition she desires. Extremely
stubborn cases may not yield to this method
of treatment the first month, but by repeat­
ing the suggestions persistently daily
makes a deeper impression on the sub-con­
scious mind, and the sub-conscious mind
will in time accept the idea or picture and
convey it to the mechanism of the Self
(which is sometimes called the Corporal
53
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
mind), and this passes the desired condi­
tions to the organs and mind cells connec­
ted with that particular part of the body
which will create normal conditions. Self
suggestions may be used for curing any
ailment of the body, either mental or phys­
ical.
These positive thoughts, when affirmed
with confidence and sincerity (not parrot
like,) will grow rapidly and will invariably
crowd out the foul negative weeds of the
mind. If we practice for a time a certain
line of positive constructive thoughts, and
with constant use of proper Auto-sugges­
tions or affirmations, there will grow within
one’s mind the strongest and hardiest kind
of positive thoughts and in time the mind
will be attuned of its own volition auto­
matically dispelling the negative thoughts.
For Stomach Trouble
If your stomach is weak, think (from the
very center of your being) of a strong
stomach able to digest and assimilate your
food and to convert it into material, which
will enter the circulation as rich and nour-
54
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS
ishing blood, which will be carried to all
parts of your system.
When eating you may consciously try to
direct the food with your thoughts. Think
that it is going directly to the effected
parts and healing you. The food may have
its curative effect if the proper kind is
eaten. What you are really doing is direct­
ing the mind and you will often get better
results in this way. Think of your stomacn
as being strong; carry the idea of strength
in your mind and fairly drive it into your
stomach to rebuild and strengthen the
weak organs or parts of your body. You
must also picture to yourself the condition
you wish to bring about.
The organs or parts of the body will
gradually develop into the condition pic­
tured in the mind. Mentally see your body
as you wish it to become. Day after day
hold the same mental picture. Never
change the picture. Once the perfect im­
age has been formed, adhere to that image
as you have created it in the mind. Re­
member that every picture you have
55
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
planted and created in your mind, takes
form in action, and your body responds
to your thoughts.
In self treatment, or in treatment of
others, you will find it very beneficial to
treat the diseased organs as though they
possessed intelligence. Think of them as
if they understood you. Suggest to them
earnestly, that they will respond. With a
little practice and patience, they will re­
spond to your earnest command. At first
they will rebel, do to the powerful thought
vibrations sent from your mind to the
afflicted organs, but by repeated affirma­
tions the truly awakened mind will gain
dominion over them.
Do not advertise your aches, pains and
imaginary worries to your friends. Every
time you do, you simply keep yourself in
the same negative condition. There are
some people who are never happy unless
they are worrying, and in a miserable,
morbid state of mind. They are the real
dispensers of mental microbes. Their men­
tal destructive germs enter the minds of
56
SUGGESTIVE THERAPEUTICS
many weak minded mortals and cause ill
health in many ways.
They are very easily detected for they
carry an atmosphere of gloom with them
wherever they go. They always throw a
feeling of depression over a crowd. To
take away from their source of grief would
be to make them most discontented, and un­
happy, for they would have nothing to
talk about.
Their mind runs something like this:
“I have a lot of trouble,
But I wouldn’t be without it,
I find it such a comfort,
To tell other folks about it.”
Do not be one of this kind. Daily, let
your thoughts be of joy, peace, love and
health, and things will be better in general
all around you.
57
PART V.
FASTING.
There is a scientific reason for fasting.
Before a patient undergoes a strenous fast,
he should either take instructions from a
competent Hygienest or from a physician
who is in sympathy with fasting.
Many deep seated diseases have been
cured by scientific fasting. For a twenty-
four hour fast, a million diseased cells will
die and be carried away by the natural
eliminating process of the bowels.
•Cancer, Diabetes, Chronic Dyspepsia,
Paralysis, Stomach trouble, Rheumatism,
etc. have been cured by scientific fasting
and dieting.
Hazzard says: “In treating the disease
symptoms known as Menorrhagia or ex­
cessive menstruation, a fast of two or
three days will reduce the flow to nil, and
in cases of foul painful menstruation per­
manent relief can be obtained in less than
68
FASTING
twenty-four hours. Again he states: “It
is necessary if the results obtained are to
remain, that right living in the future is
a positive guarantee of continued well­
being.”
For ordinary diseases, a fast of forty-
eight hours, once or twice a week will help
nature to restore the patient quickly to
normal conditions. During the fast, the
patient must drink plenty of water, exer­
cise in the sunshine, and do plenty of deep
breathing through the nostrils only. How­
ever, a person who is ruptured, should not
practice deep breathing.
Breathing exercise during a fast is of
the utmost importance, for in the early
stages of the fast, the patient may be sub­
ject to dizziness, headaches, etc., Breathing
through the nostrils will restore one to
normal.
While abstaining from food, it is most
essential to keep the intestines clear, either
by an enema or purging, as every organ of
elimination works more rapidly and effect­
ively, and the waste matter in the bowels
59
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
should be eliminated so as to make way
for the new material which is being dis­
posed of.
It is thought by some, that once the food
supply is cut off no superfluous matter
will be disposited. This is an error, for
during the fast nature is continually throw­
ing off dead or decayed matter, and for
this reason, an enema should be taken
daily.
Many people are afraid to fast at first,
because of physical weakness, but I can
assure my readers that a scientific fast
under the direction of a competent Hy-
gienest or Doctor will not weaken the
patient.
Others again believe that fasting is close­
ly allied with starvation but this is not so.
There are more people die from over eating
than from abstainance.
Dr. G. Guclpa, of Paris, sa!ys: “There is
no danger or no serious inconvenience in
abstaining entirely from food for three or
four days, or even a longer period.”
The period of abstainance may also be
60
FASTING
repeated several times without any risk or
inconvenience, if each day a large dose of
purgatives is taken to insure against intes­
tinal infection. There may be some slight
discomfort felt during the period of ab-
stainance, but this never persists after food
has been resumed.
When the fast is broken, the patient al­
ways feels better, physically and mentally,
for the body has scientifically eliminated
all that was impure, with very little risk
(if any.)
The reason why many deep seated dis­
eases are not cured by scientific fasting, is
because the patient breaks the fast before
the disease is unrooted.
*
As an example: Suppose a fast of twelve
days is required to effect a cure of Catarrh,
and the patient breaks the fast at the ex­
piration of six days with the impression
that he has fasted long enough. After the
fast is broken, the Catarrh, or any other
malady, for which he had been fasting will
61
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
be benefited only in proportion to the time
he has fasted, and a complete cure will not
be accomplished.
Nature will dictate to the patient when
it is time to break the fast. When the nat­
ural feeling of hunger returns, it will be
noticed, first, that the eyes sparkle and
are very brilliant; second, the breath has
lost its offensive and heavy odor; third,
the tongue loses its heavy thick coating
and assumes a healthy pink or red color.
The tongue will only have this healthy
color when nature is ready and willing
to .digest and assimulate nutriment in the
form of either liquid or solid food.
%
The habit of taking the least little mouth-
full of either solid or liquid food, must be
absolutely refrained from, because it stops
the thorough cleansing process of nature,
which is most essential for returning the
patient to normal health. It is also a
waste of vital energy. The same energy
which is used for eating and assimulating
could be used for staving off hunger,
62
FASTING
strengthening the will and unrooting the
disease.
Sometimes a prolonged fast will develop
unusual symptoms, such as dizziness, pain
or cramps, insomnia, etc. This is due to
nature’s method of restoring equilibrium.
These unusual symptoms, can be greatly
subdued by a little knowledge and atten­
tion.
For instance: The patient’s feverish
condition, which generally sets in at the be­
ginning of a fast, is an indication that
Nature is rapidly eliminating all impure
elements with which the system is clogged.
As Nature eliminates the accumulation of
decayed organic matter, it causes an in­
crease of circulation: This increase, to­
gether with the activity of the body, causes
the feverish condition to set in. Should
the patient be subject to fainting spells, it
does not necessarily mean that the faint­
ing is caused by the fast. It may be
caused from lack of blood in the brain, and
this will cause fainting at any time.
63
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
In some cases the patient requires less
sleep, during a fast, than ordinarily. This
however is not the case with everyone for
I have known of cases where the patient
has slept better during a fast than before.
There is no reason for uneasiness if the
patient looses two or three hours sleep
during the fast.
Treatment for Fainting
Lay the patient flat on his back; with
the head a little lower than the feet. Open
all windows and allow as much fresh air as
possible to circulate through the room.
Loosen all tight clothing, and gently man­
ipulate the body.
Treatments for Headaches
Breathing exercise in the open usually
stops a headache. If this does not stop it,
try some of these simple suggestion. Bathe
the face in cold water or place the face in
a basin of cold water, inhale the water
through the nostrils and allow it to pass
out through the mouth, massaging the back
of the neck, or a good sleep will always
cure headache.
64
FASTING
Treatment for Insomnia
Have the patient lie flat on his back in
bed, and breathe deeply and slowly, using
suggestions of peace or any other sugges­
tions which will have a quieting and sooth­
ing effect; a hot water bottle applied to the
feet if they are cold; a wine glass of hot
water upon retiring; a lukewarm sponge
bath followed by a cold sponge. Any of
these simple suggestions will in time cure
insomnia.
Treating for Vomiting
Vomiting, which sometimes sets in at
the beginning of a fast, should be treated
as follows: Give the patient a liberal
amount of hot water, place hot applica­
tions at the pit of the stomach, and Nature
will do the rest.
Kneeding of the parts where the pain is
located, hot applications, followed by a
drink of water, will bring about satisfac­
tory results.
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
TREATMENTS FOR CRAMPS
Pain or Palpitation of the Heart
This is often caused from gases in the
stomach. A little physical exercise, such
as bending will help to eliminate the gases.
Also a drink of hot water, and breathing
exercises, will generally restore one to nor­
mal conditions. If not break the fast.
How to Break the Fast
To break a fast it is best to commence
with fruit juices, such as oranges, grapes,
etc. Great care must be taken when about
to break a prolonged fast period. The
patient should be given only liquids the
first day, such as vegetable soups. The
broth has all the combined strength of the
vegetables. The second day they should
be given a half handful of popcorn freshly
popped without salt or butter. Let the
patient eat the popcorn slowly, masticating
it well before swallowing; whole wheat
soaked in water over night then slowly
66
FASTING
parch a small quantity. Then ordinary
light meals the following day.
This precaution is only necessary when
breaking a prolonged fast of from ten to
fifteen days duration. In an ordinary fast
of two to four days, the fast may be broken
with an ordinary meal, without gorging
yourself, however.
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
BE TAKEN IN PRACTICING DEEP
BREATHING.) Many people who practice
deep breathing, have not been warned of
its many dangers. To practice too stren­
uously at first, will cause internal bleeding.
A person who is ruptured, should never
practice deep breathing.
The person who follows this exercise
religiously and sanely, will derive great
benefits therefrom. The beginner should
inhale while mentally counting four, re­
tain while counting four, then exhale
through the nostrils. When exhaling,
draw in the abdomen, as near as possible
towards the spine, always starting from
below. The exhaling should be slow and
easy without any jerks. The holding of
the breath may be increased from 6 to
8-10-12-15-, etc. Each week gradually in­
crease from five to fifteen or twenty min­
utes daily.
Second Exercise
Stand erect, shoulders well back. Close
the right nostril with the thumb of the
right hand.
70
BREATHING
Inhale through the left nostril while
counting six. Then close the left nostril
with the forefinger and exhale slowly
through the right nostril. Then with the
right nostril closed, inhale through the
left and vice versa. The counts may be
increased as directed in the first exercise.
This exercise, when practiced properly, de-
velopes the chest. If every one would prac­
tice this daily, there would not be so much
consumption. Nearly all consumptives are
narow chested.
Morning Exercise
Before starting this exercise, it is well
to take a glass of water, then stand before
an open window; inhale the pure air,
while raising the arms to a horizontal pos­
ition with the shoulders; keep the fingers
rigid, palms down; raise upon the balls
of the feet; inhaling a little more air;
while in this position, lift the arms up and
down; you will be able to inhale a little
more air each time you raise the arms up.
When you find you have retained all the
air you can conveniently inhale, exhale
71
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
slowly. Do this a few times. Stand firmly
on the floor, and while holding the indrawn
breath, drop the hands to the sides, bend
the body from the waist line, first to the
right, then forward, then to the left, then
backwards; do this a few times before
exhaling.
Exercise for Improving the
Circulation
This exercise should be taken in your
own room when you are sure you will not
be disturbed.
Lie down fiat on your back. Relax and
let go of every nerve tension of your body.
Breathe deeply while suggesting peace
mentally until you have attained a calm
peaceful state of mind and body. Breathe
slowly and deeply, and let the breathing
be in harmony with your thought sugges­
tions as I will direct you. Place the hands
lightly on each temple, close your eyes and
have that conscious realization that you
are directing the forces in your brain and
sending them to all parts of your body.
72
BREATHING
By the increased circulation, rapidly fol­
lowing the nerve current, brought about by
the slow rhythmic breathing, and with the
added powers of the conscious thought, di­
rected by the will, you will soon become
conscious of a power which you will use
advantageously. Now bring the hands
down to the bronchial center, the throat
front; then slowly down to the Solar Plex­
us, resting here a moment or two. Then sit
up and gradually pass the hands down the
lower parts of the body; the hands touch­
ing the body merely as a directing force or
guide. Doing this from three to six times
constitutes an exercise.
Walking Exercise
With shoulders and chest well back, the
head in an easy upright position, inhale a
slow breath through the nostrils while
counting, mentally, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Retain
the breath while counting six. In this exer­
cise the number may also be increased with
time and practice. The exhaling should be
slow and easy ; practice approximately for
73
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
five minutes, then rest, and continue at
your leisure without tiring yourself.
Sitting Exercise
Sit on the floor and stretch the limbs
straight in front of you. Hold the great
toes with both hands without bending the
knees; having accomplished this, touch the
knees with the forehead. Do this five or
six times. This exercise arouses gastric
fire and has a tendency to make the loins
lean and eliminate many diseases.
Place the hands firmly on the ground or
floor; support the weight of the body upon
the elbows; bring them against the sides
of the body, then stretch the feet above the
ground, keeping the limbs stiff and straight
on a level with the head. This exercise
cures diseases of the spleen, liver and stom­
ach. It also increases digestion and cures
indigestion.
Exercises for Stimulating the Nerves
Stand erect, chest out and head well
back, inhale a long deep breath, and retain
it as long as possible without causing dis-
74
BREATHING
comfort. Now extend the hands straight
in front of you, on a level with your chest,
palms up; draw your hands towards your
shoulders, putting force and energy into
the movement, before they reach the
shoulders as you gradually draw them to
you. Do this until you feel it is time to ex­
hale, then exhale through the nostrils
slowly.
Bring the hands down to the sides and
do the same exercise over again for five
minutes.
Awakening the Dormant Lung
Cells
This exercise stimulates and strengthens
the lung cells, many of which have been
rendered useless through their non-use,
caused by shallow or surface breathing.
Stand erect before an open window, in­
hale a full breath very slowly through the
nostrils, and while inhaling, gently tap the
chest in different parts, with the finger
tips, at the same time holding the conscious
75
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
thought that the cells will be awakened.
The tapping of the fingers directs the mag­
netism or vital force to the non-used cells.
Hold the indrawn breath as long as possi­
ble, without causing any discomfort, then
exhale through the nostrils. Do this for
five minutes.
Abdominal Exercise
This exercise will strengthen the muscles
of the abdomen and also do away with su­
perfluous fat. It will also enable the stu­
dent to control the muscles of the abdo­
men which is most efficient in deep, full
breathing. By constantly developing the
abdominal muscles, the waist line will de­
crease.
Exercise One
Stand erect, inhale a full breath, while
counting five. Hold the indrawn breath
and draw in the muscle of the abdomen by
contracting them.
At first you must do this exercise slow
and easy, then allow the abdomen to spring
BREATHING
back to its original position. Repeat a few
times.
Exercise Two
Stand erect, in hale a full breath through
the nostrils. While holding the breath,
sway the upper part of the body from the
waist line up, in a circular, rotating move­
ment, while counting five. Do this for
about three to five minutes.
Exercise Three
Stand erect, inhale a full breath. Touch
the right toe with the right forefinger and
the left toe with the left forefinger, and
vice versa, while holding the breath, with­
out bending the knees. Do this for from
three to five minutes.
PART VII.
MEAT AND ITS EFFECTS
It seems unbelievable that civilized man
still continues to eat the corpse of animals
for food. In spite of our boasted civiliza­
tion, man has not evolved very far from
his primitive habits. It has been scien­
tifically and religiously proven that meat
is unfit for human consumption.
Meat is decayed animal matter. The
process of decomposition begins soon after
the life has left the body of the animal.
You do not eat the life of the animal, you
only eat the corpse. This corpse carries a
certain percentage of, the rate of vibration
of the animal which once occupied it.
When the animal is led to the slaughtering
plant, it instinctively knows of its ap­
proaching death. This knowledge or in­
stinct creates a feeling of fear and timidity.
After the life has left the body, the corpse
still contains the vibration of timidity and
78
MEATS AND ITS EFFECTS
fear, plus decomposition. When you eat
this decaying flesh, it becomes a part of
your body.
Our bodies are made up of millions of
tiny cells. These cells are continually
changing and rebuilding. Physically we
are not the same two days in succession.
Every cell of our body is subject to change.
The hair and nails change quicker than
any other part. The teeth require the
longest time to effect a change. The food
we eat replaces this waste matter, and if
this food is diseased, and the decaying
corpse of animals always are. Our bodies
will take on the condition of the impurities
which we put into our stomachs. Put­
ting the cadaver on ice does not stop the
process of decay, it only retards it.
Certainly no one who recommends flesh
for a diet, has ever given the subject any
serious thought, because it is one of the
most nauseating habits of modern society.
The principle argument, of the lovers of
the corpse eating habit, is that it gives
79
I
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
the body strength and is necessary for
i those who perform manual labor. This
argument is based on an erroneous opinion,
because dead animal flesh does not give as
much strength as a vegetarian diet.
It has been scientifically proven that
every element that enters into the composi­
tion of animal flesh, is to be found in great­
er abundance in the nut, fruit and vege­
table kingdom.
Some of the hardest physical laborers
are exclusive vegetarians. In China and
India, there are hundreds of thousands of
Coolie laborers, who toil daily in the
scorching sun, from twelve to eighteen
hours, and their main diet conists of rice,
nuts, fruits, and vegetables.
Harses, bulls, and elephants, are the
strongest of animals, and they live on
grains and vegetables. The prominent
traits of the flesh eating animals, are cow­
ardice irritability, and cunningness.
A bear, belonging to a circus, was fed on
bread and vegetables for a few days, as an
experiment. During that time, it displayed
80
A L
MEATS AND ITS EFFECTS
a gentle, quiet and playful disposition. A
few days later it was again fed on flesh.
Its strength did not increase, but instead it
became vicious and extremely dangerous.
Animal flesh as a diet, is the direct cause
of many of the fashionable diseases with
which the human race suffers in this pres­
ent age of so-called civilization. Gluttony,
extreme sensuality, physical and psychical
apathy are also the consequences of over
stimulation.
Dr. Carl Loeb says: “If you eat meat
and your digestion is impaired, your stom­
ach may not be burdened from all the poi­
sonous matter out of the “scavenger food”
and some of the poison may leave your sys­
tem without harming you. In order to
avoid this, by all means eat soup. Soup
will give you every drop of “urine in the
meat, nothing wlil go to waste. If meat
will not kill you, eat soup three times a
day, seven times per week, and it will do
the work.”
Flesh eating is simply a habit and from
a scientific standpoint has nothing to up-
81
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
hold it. On the other hand it is consid­
ered injurious to the system, as I have
pointed out. The destruction of animals
for the use of food, includes in its detail
so much cruelty, that anyone not utterly
inhuman, shudders at the thought of it.
If everyone had to do their own killing,
if everyone had to plunge his own cold
steel into the animal, either in reality or
imagination, if everyone had to look at the
last spasmodic move of the dying animal,
I am sure the degrading habit of corpse
eating would be unknown to civilization.
Civilized man should remember that many
of his so-called heathen brothers do not
eat animal flesh.
Many physicians are advocating the veg­
etarian diet. They also agree that if a
change is made, in time it will cure rheu­
matism, scurvy, kidney troubles, tonsilitis,
etc.
Many cases of chronic diseases of long
standing, caused either by drugs or flesh­
poisoning, have been cured simply by sub-
82
MEATS AND ITS EFFECTS
stituting a strictly vegetarian diet, in place
of flesh. The use of flesh food exhausts
the vitality quickly, whereas vegetables
builds it up.
Statistics show that vegetarians are
longer lived, stronger, and of a more gen­
tle disposition than their flesh eating
brothers, who are as a rule very pugna­
cious and cruel.
Another question which seems to have
been forgotten in regards to the use of
meat. Has man the right to kill animals
for food? To the professed Christians,
who claim to believe in their Bible, there
seems to be little reason for doubt, as the
command is plain: “Thou shall not kill.”
Still this command is disregarded daily
by millions of Christians, who base their
rights upon a misunderstood verse in the
Bible which is: “God permitted man to
have dominion over the fish of the sea, and
over the fowl of the air, and over the cat­
tle.” When man kills the creatures of na­
ture which are below him in the scale of
83
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
evolution, his dominion over them is at an
end.
Man’s work here is to hasten the process
of life and not to retard it.
And God said: “Behold, I have given
you every herb bearing seed which is upon
the face of the earth, and every tree in
which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed.
To you it shall be for meat.” (Gen. I, 26-
I have endeavored to prove to you religi­
ously and scientifically that animal food is
unfit for human consumption.
You will no doubt ask, “What shall I eat,
and how can I retain my physical strenght
on a vegetable diet?” My advice to you
is to give it a trial before you condemn or
denounce it.
If you have been accustomed to eating
animal flesh all your life, at first it will be
difficult for you to adjust yourself to a
strictly vegetarian diet without feeling
some uncomfortable effects by the change.
The change must be made gradually. Be-
84
MEATS AND ITS EFFECTS
gin by substituting daily, one meal of flesh,
for one of vegetables.
In a week or so, try doing without meat
for a few days at a time, and continue in
this way for several weeks. By so doing
your system will become adjusted to this
natural way of living, and once this is at­
tained, you will never go back to the flesh
eating habit.
There are many people who make the
fatal mistake, when trying to become veg­
etarians, of getting into the habit of living
on starchy foods. This is an error not gen­
erally understood. You must not fail to
retain your physical strength. And in
order to do this, it is necessary that you
eat plenty of green vegetables, such as
spinach, celery, and all other green vege­
tables you can possibly get. Also plenty
of the various kinds of nuts and fruits.
PART VIII.
DRUGS.
If we look for superstition we will find
sufficient proof of it in the present method
of medication.
First, drugs are admittedly poison.
Either they are poison per se, or they be­
come poisonous simply from their presence
within the organism. Any substance
present within the organism, which is not
a nutriment for tissue building, is a foreign
substance and a poison, and as such, it can
only damage the organs.
Opium is more extensively employed in
medicines than any other drug, because it
is the most effective agent to allay pain.
Pain is a blessing in disguise, and a warn­
ing to return to nature’s mode of living.
Sickness and disease is a self imposed pen­
alty for the violation of nature’s simple
physiological laws.
Drugs silence the outcry of nature, and
86
DRUGS
suppress the symptoms rather than remove
the cause. If a patient is in pain, a drug
is administered and the symptoms subsides.
We must not forget that the symptoms are
really the effect and that the true cause
still remains. Suppressions of pain, such
as that offered by drugs is by no means a
sure cure, since the cause is not removed.
The symptoms are not the disease, but sim­
ply an evidence that the body is diseased.
It is a proven fact that every drug taken
to suppress an acute ailment returns in a
worse chronic form, resulting from the
suppression of the disease or of the poison­
ous drug.
Drugs paralyze the sense of pain and
suppress the eliminating and healing act­
ivities of nature. By the introduction of
a drug to suppress a disease, in most cases
the effect turns out to be worse than the
disease itself. This is sufficient proof that,
to administer a drug, is not only useless,
but is highly dangerous and injurious to
the system.
It simply retards the cure until the dis-
87
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
ease breaks out as something worse, or in
a worse form of the same. To administer
a drug is simply adding to the cause of
the disease, for drugs always produce dis­
ease. A poison cannot expell another poi­
son. To add an impurity to the system,
is simply to add a second or heavier burden
for nature to throw off, which saps the
patient’s strength and vitality. As Doctor
Bostock, author of “The History of Medi­
cine,” truthfully says: “Every dose of
medicine is a blind experience upon the
vitality of the patient.”
The masses are more or less hypnotized
into the belief that the drugs of the All­
opathic Doctors can cure. It is a primitive
habit handed down from the stone age.
What are drugs supposed to do? To
cure the sick of their ailments, and with
this sole object in view, the drugs are ad­
ministered. The drug doctor bases his
theory on the fact that disease is a thing
to be eliminated or suppressed, or in some
way effected by the drug. But when we
come to a realization that disease is not
88
DRUGS
a thing or an entity, with which to fight
or combat, but a warning, an effect which
is in itself, the process of purifcation for
getting well.
Once this great truth is thoroughly
grasped by medical men, medicine will get
its proper deserts and be decently interred
in a common grave. If the taking of grugs
was the best method of restoring perfect
health, doctors should be the healthiest in­
dividuals on the face of the earth. It is
a well known fact that they are not. They
have no faith in their own poison, for when
they are sick they call in another doctor
to treat them. They also take money from
patients they claim are incurable.
As A. F. Reinhold P. H. D. M. D. beau­
tifully illlustrates: “Ladies and gentlemen,
I oppose this medical law, because it places
the medical practice in the hands of the
most incompetent class of professionals on
the face of this earth. This is my first
reason for objecting to it. Very many
diseases the medical doctors do not pretend
to cure. There are some they say no one
89
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
can cure, and that means that they cannot.”
“Take consumption or cancer for an ex­
ample. Can they cure it? They say no,
because it is incurable; but if a person
comes to them with consumption, they will
take his case every time, and they will
treat him as long as he has a dollar, and
if they think he is going down a little too
fast (which would not be healthy for them)
they advise him to go to Florida or Cal­
ifornia or Europe where he will die before
he comes back. After they tell him he can­
not be cured he goes to some one else and
gets well, then they say he never had con­
sumption. If he remains with them and
dies, he has had consumption, if he goes
away and gets well, he never had it. There
are many people acquainted with just such
cases”. (“Nature versus Drugs” by Rein­
hold, page 432).
Professor W. J. Yoemans, of Popular
Science Monthly, says: “All who have
watched the progress of the healing art in
recent times, will know that among the
most enlightened practitioners, there has
90
DRUGS
been a steadily diminishing confidence in
medicines and an increasing reliance upon
the sane influences of nature.”
Medicine hinders more than it assists
nature’s actions, and is more injurious than
useful in all diseases.
Drug medication, no matter under what
disguise or name it is practiced, consists
of employing, as remedies for diseases, the
very thing which produces them in people
who are healthy. The real effect of drugs
is that they substitute a chronic condition
for a temporary indisposition. Every par­
ticle in Medical Materials is incompatible
with the vital functions and antagonistic to
living matter and therefor produces dis­
ease, when in any way brought into con­
tact with living domain. In short all are
poisonous. Hygienic Treatments, on the
contrary, consists in employing as remed­
ical agents the same materials and influ­
ences which preserve health in well people.
Dr. Frank Hartman said: “Every time
you call the Drug Doctor into the house
you introduce the plague.”
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
Says Dr. Fofth: “There is scarcely a
more dishonest trade imaginable than med­
icine in its present state. The Monarch
who would entirely intercede the practice
of medicine, would deserve to be placed
by the side of the most illustrious char­
acter who ever conferred a benefit to man­
kind.”
Says Dr. Kidd: “Our cherished hopes of
medical reform at present, exist in the
outer educated people. It is a sad, humil­
iating confession.”
Professor Gregory, of Edinburgh: “Gen­
tlemen: Ninety-nine out of every hun­
dred Medical facts are Medical lies, and
Medical Doctrines, are for the most part,
stark starving nonsense.”
Dr. Andrew Comb, Edinburgh: “Med­
icine is made so much of a mystery and
is so nearly alluded to, if not identified
wfth quackery, that it would puzzle many
a rational onlooker to tell which is one and
which is the other.”
Dr. Benj. Rush: “We have done but little
92
DRUGS
more than multiply diseases and increase
their fatality.”
Sir Benj. Brodie, M. D., F. R. G. S.: “If
the art of Medicine and Surgery had never
been invented, by far the greater number
of those who suffer from bodily illness
would have recovered.”
Professor J. W. Carson M. D. says: “It
is easy to destroy the life of an infant,
this you will find after you enter practice.
You will find that a slight scratch of the
pen, which dictates a little too much of the
remedy, will wipe out the infant’s life.
When you visit your patient, you will find
that the child, cheerful a few hours pre­
viously, is stiff and cold. Beware hten how
you use your remedies. Again we do not
know whether our patients recover because
we give medicine or because nature cures
them, perhaps bread pills cure as many as
medicine does.”
Says Professor E. S. Carr, M. D. of New
York University Medical School: “Mer­
cury when administered in any form, is
taken into the circulation and carried to
93
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
every tissue of the body. The effect of
Mercury is not for a day, but for all times.
It often lodges in the bones, occasionally
causing pain years after it has been ad­
ministered. I have often detected Metalic
Mercury in the bones of Patients who have
been treated with this subtle poisonous
agent.”
James Johnston, M. D., F. R. S. of the
Medico Chirugical Review wrote: “I declare
as my conscientious conviction, founded on
long experience and reflection that if there
was not a single Physician or Surgeon,
Mid-wife, Chemist, Apothecary, Druggist,
nor drug on the face of the earth, there
would be less sickness and less mortality
than now prevails.”
Dr. A. G. Leavy, Jefferson Medical Col­
lege, Philadelphia, Pa., says: “The best
things in the healing art have been done
by those who never had a Diploma: The
first Caesarian Sector lithotomy. The use
of Cinchona of ether as an Anesthetic, the
treatment of the air passages by inhalation.
The water cure, the medicated bath. Elec-
94
DRUGS
tricity as a healing agent, magnetism, faith
cure, mind cure, etc. Pasteur has no di­
ploma, but has done more good than all
the physicians in France.”
Dr. Majendic, lecturing to his class, said:
“Gentlemen, Medicine is a great humbug.
I know it is called a Science. Science in­
deed. It is nothing like Science. Doctors
are merely Empirics when they are not
Charlatans. We are as ignorant as men
can be, who know nothing in the world
about medicine.”
Professor Barker, New York Medical
College, says: “The drugs which are some­
times administered for Scarlet Fever kill
far more patients than the disease does.”
John Mason Good, M. D. F. R. S. says:
“The effects of medicine on the human
system is in the highest degree uncertain,
except indeed, that they destroyed more
lives than war, pestilence, and famine com­
bined.”
Dr. Quain, Editor of the Dictionary of
medicine, said in an address to the British
95
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
Medical Association, in 1873. ‘Diseases are
curable, but we cannot cure them.”
Dr. Samuel Wilkes, F. R. G. S. Lecturer
on Medicine at Guys Hospital, said: “All
our best treatments are Empirical. I be­
lieve that we know next to nothing of the
action of medicines, and other Therapeu­
tics agents.”
Dr. Ramage F. R. G. S. London, says,
“It cannot be denied that the present sys­
tem of medicine is a burning reproach to
its profession.”
“If indeed a series of vague and uncer­
tain incongruities deserve to be called by
that name. How do our medicines really
do good? How often do they really make
our patients worse? I fearlessly assert
that in most cases the sufferer would be
safer without a physician than wT
ith one.
I have seen enough mal-practice in my
Professional Brethern to warrant the
strong language which I employ.”
Dr. Stills “Therapeutics, Vol. 1 Page 31.
says: “Nearly every medicine has become
96
DRUGS
popular as a remedy, before being adopted
or even tried by physicians, and by far the
greater number of medicines where first
employed in countries which are now in a
state of Scientific ignorance.”
Dr Peebles says: “Medical practitioners
should not administer poisons that tend to
destroy the organized tissues, depress the
vital force, or in any way deprive it of the
power to respond to the will. Neither
should they administer potent medicines
to the sick which, if taken by healthy
would make them sick. There is no doubt
in my mind but that the average Doctor
kills every year more than they cure. This
I am sorry to say, is too frequently the
case.”
SHAKESPEARE SAYS: By medicine
life may be prolonged, yet death will seize
the doctor too.”
“Lord Beaconfield died while the Allo­
paths and Homeoepaths were quarrelling
over his sick body. Such is the science of
medicine.”
97
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
WHAT THE PUBLIC THINKS OF
MEDICAL SCIENCE.
A MEDICAL journal has recently ad­
mitted the amazing fact that fully one-
half of the American public patronizes
drugless practitioners. An inquiry was
suggested and financed by Dr. James H.
Hutton of the Chicago Medical Society.
Here follows the story as published in
the “Literary Digest” of Sept. 22, 1923.
WHAT PEOPLE THINK OF THE
DOCTORS.
By Buda KELLER.
Facts intended to assist a committee of
the Illinois Medical Society to organize an
educational campaign, were reported to the
society at a meeting in Chicago recently.
Under the title “The Laity’s idea of the
Physician,” these facts we are told what
6,772 persons in and out of Chicago act­
ually think of the Medical profession, and
why they patronize other healing agencies.
98
DRUGS
The idea of these persons are described by
the writer as “chuck full of unadultered
lies, polite and half-truths, and delirious
fancies”. Only 931 of those questioned we
are told, profess entire confidence in
orthodox medicine, and made no excur­
sions into the realms controlled by other
Cults. This fact in itself, the writer thinks,
should interest physicians merely as bus­
iness men. Some one, we are advised,
should tell these six thousand persons the
truth about medicine, the one profession in
the world where a man takes an independ­
ent attitude with a humanitarian point of
view.”
“The reason for the appointment of the
committee was the falling away among
certain of your patients to quacks and
cults and practitioners of little value. The
vast fund of misinformation which the lay­
man at large has about policies and achiev-
ments of the medical profession.”
Now if the average business man, selling
service of the highest known trade, found
members of his potential customers not
99
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
only utilizing that service, but using others
far less meritorous at a far greater price
he would immediately send workers to
make a trade survey.
“We gather together volunteer workers,
traveling salesmen, city salesmen, office
people who had much contact with the gen­
eral public. The welfare worker in one of
the biggest Middle-Western industrial con­
cerns. A club women on the south side.
A society woman on the North Side.
People who would come in contact with
layman in every walk of life. There were
a few paid workers, too, who went up the
highways and byways. We ask them to do
this. To find out from as many people as
possible. What did you do the last time
you were sick? And, where it could be
done gracefully, “What led you to do
that? They were instructed not to ask the
definite question. What do you have
against the doctor? For that would not
only have robbed the reply of its spontan­
eity, but might have cast considerable sus­
picion upon the motive of the inquirer.
DRUGS
“Replies were grouped under general
heads from 5,719 persons in Chicago, from
1,053 persons out of Chicago, a total of
6,772. From this total only 931 or 13 5-16
per cent had never dabbled in any cult or
pseudo-science. Of the 931 with a perfect
record only 384 or 5 11-17 per cent had no
curiosity about any of said cults or quack­
ery and no intention of experimenting just
a bit with them.
“Of the 5,841 who were directly against
the physicians, directly for the other fel­
low, which is quite a different matter, or
who had at some time or another been in­
terested in the other fellow to the point
of investing money in his healing methods,
only 7 per cent of them were directly
opposed to the physician on account of
some fault of his own, that is, malpractice,
either real or imagined, or his failure as
an individual to adapt himself to a situa­
tion. About 93 per cent of them had in
mind these visions I was telling you about,
due to confused impressions about you,
your relationship with one another, your
101
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
significance in social, economic, and scien­
tific progress and your long and arduous
preparation for practice.
“As I said, we had all classes represented
here, from day laborers to society leaders,
with just a 50-50 break between those
above and those below middle-class in prop­
erty-holding. And we found what to us
was a rather interesting fact that the
semi-foreign communities out on the West
Side of Chicago, showed a smaller percent,
experimenting with doubtful healing prac­
tices than the exclusive Hyde Park and
North Shore residential districts.”
The following twenty-two groups of an­
swers we are told, are given as an in­
dication of the spontaneous comment of
nearly seven thousand persons. The fact
that most of the statements made are un­
true, that many of them are inconsistent,
one with another would, to the business­
man, simply be an indication that he had
better put the truth about himself and his
service into the mediums where these
102
DRUGS
people can find them. Here are the groups:
“1. There is a large group of people
who will tell you that the physician is neg­
ative. He tells you what you must not do,
warns you of ensuing fatalities. The os­
teopath chiropractor, does something con­
crete for you. The mental reaction is
better.
“2. There are others who will tell you
that the physician has too good a graft. He
looks at you once and charges you five
dollars for a prescription which he gets
from a book on the shelf. You can do it
quite as well by going into the corner
drug store.
“3. There are those who say that doc­
tors resent questions. They either shut
you up summarily or overwhelm you by an
utterly incomprehensible explanation.
“4. Others say that doctors set them­
selves up as wiser, less infallible than other
people. One woman said that the last doc­
tor she had was as pompous as a New
Zealand devil dancer.
103
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
“5. It is said that the doctors habitually
criticize treatments and healing methods
of which they know nothing. How many
doctors have questioned carefully a patient
who has been helped by chiropractic treat­
ments? How many of them have ever
seen a treatment? Yet they 'Criticize it,
regardless.
“6. Some people said that the Chiro­
practic Schools at Davenport had real
equipment: and that the students there
worked so hard that they must be very
competent when they came out.
“7. Others say that physicians are not
consistent in their ethical practices. The
doctor who goes after business by the busi­
ness method of advertising is likely to be
thrown out of his society. Yet the doctor
with a spectacular patient, and with
enough of a graft with a city editor to
exploit him, becomes a high-priced special­
ist and everybody is anxious to call him
into consultation.
Numbers of people commented on the os­
teopathic advertisments which have been
104
DRUGS
running in national magazines, and claimed
to have interested to the extent of trying
out the treatments.
“9. Another group says that the doctors
attitude toward one another is about as
friendly as two strange bull dogs in a
back yard. Suppose you dismiss one
physician from a case and call another.
He will come in, inspect you sorrowfully,
shudder with horror as he sniffs at the
bottle of medicine his predecessor left and
say in a deep voice: You did well to send
for me, in another hour you would have
been no more. But I shall cure you.
“10. There are people who misunderstood
your ethical ideals. They say thal an hon­
est man will protect a crook. That if an­
other doctor has blundered disastrously
on a case, you will do absolutely nothing
to prevent his repeating the performance
on any patient who may stray into the
office.
“11. There are those who believe that
successful doctors use for their patients
105
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
parts of the very same treatments, and let
nature do the work, hut they drag it out
longer, cluttering it up with useless medi­
cine, make it cost more, and don’t tell you
the truth about it.
“12. Others think that when you actually
get down to cases, the doctors do the same
thing that they revile in their competitors.
There is a famous clinic in the Middle
West which is so prosperous, that nobody
in the profession dares criticize it.
Yet they used to flood all that part of
the country with advertising literature,
report has it, and later entered into a deal
with a railroad to advertise the town as the
home of that clinic.
“13. The Cults—Science, New Thought,
and a dozen others, make you a factor in
your own healing. It is subjective. Medi­
cine treats you merely as an objective, a
clod of a thing to be worked upon.
“14. Another group says that doctors
are always a bar to progress because
they fight social legislation, such as the
106
DRUGS
Sheppard-Towner bill, and the only new
stories to be found in the public press
show their motive to be a selfish finan­
cial one.
“15. Others say that doctors won’t talk
competition from a fair angle. They will
never admit any good in mental or related
aids, and their attitude bears the stamp
of a narrow outlook, because such great
movements as Christian Science could not
exist so long or flourish so wonderfully
without the foundation of Truth.
“16. The Cults—and this comment was
made of many—draw upon the forces that
are greater than man. The doctors’ re­
sources are human and mechanical.
“17. There is a large group which re­
fuses to believe that only the doctor who
has studied allopathic medicine was com­
petent to practice the art af healing. Yet
the doctors have never given the slightest
degree of approval to anything which did
not originate in their own ranks.
“18. Another group wondered if any-
107
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
one interested in healing methods hadn’t
better read the expose of the medical
profession recently appearing in a popular
magazine. It showed how little most doc­
tors knew about the drugs they pre­
scribed.
“19. Others say that there are too many
specialists. It is too expensive to be
handed around from one to the other for
each separate thing they think may be
the matter with you. It is better to go to
someone who can take care of everything
at once.
“22. And finally there is the group that
says that there is no way of telling which
is the good doctor and which is the bad
one, and it is too dangerous to experiment
with them. Osteopathy—or each man’s
favorite practice—can’t hurt you, and has
cured every difficulty so far.
“Gentlemen, you have been very much
amused by these things. You were not
half as amused as we were in getting them
together.
“It does not make any difference* how
108
DRUGS
wrong the people are or how much they
are at fault in not knowing that they are
wrong, it is a fact that almost seven thous­
and people honestly believe these things
and that these seven thousand people are
not confined to ditch-diggers or dish-wash­
ers or common laborers. Every one of
them is likely to call you frantically at
two o’clock in the morning if there was
something considered a real emergency.
“It means 93 per cent, of these people
do not care to come to you unless they
think they are going to die. It means
that they are actively interested in other
things. The modern mind is a little bit
over-stimulated.”
109
PART IX.
HEALING BY DISINCARNATE
INTELLIGENCES
Many instances of healing diseases, or
inspiration to cure pain, are to be found in
ancient literature. In the history of So­
crates there is one Theodovrus, ajuartyr,
put to extreme torture by Julian, an Apos-T^/*.
tie, Riffinus in his history says that he
met Theodovrus after his trial and asked
him if his pains were great. He replied,
“That at first they were terrible, but, after
a while, there seemed to stand behind him
a young man in white, who, with a ker­
chief, wiped off the great sweats from his
body and bid him be cheerful.”
Angels or Devas, as they are called in
the East, who direct the healing influences,
and sometimes diagnose diseases, must not
be confused with the present day method
of Spiritualism or Sorcery, which has to do
with the Astral remains of the dead, and
Nature Spirits (Elementals), the use and
no
/
HEALING BY DISINCARNATE INTELLIGENCES
practice of which merges on the border­
land of Black Magic.
The many dangers and true conditions
of the Astral World is not sufficiently
known to the average feather head who
calls himself a Spiritual Healer. Spiritual
healing can only be performed by a perfect
man or person who has attained Oneness
with Divinity; such as Jesus the Christ or
Buddha (whose will power may be said to
be the will of the Supreme) and whose
healing was always instantaneous.
I cite a case of Mrs. M, who was suffer­
ing for ten months with pleurisy. She had
tried all the doctors and medicines she
heard of, without receiving any help. She
states: “I was alone in my room suffering
intense agony. I came to a realization that
drugs were useless. I prayed fervently as
I never prayed before, for relief of some
kind. Suddenly there appeared before me
what seemed to be a mist at first, until it
gradually shaped itself into the form of a
woman. She appeared to me to be more
perfect than the form of any human being
in
\
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
I had ever seen on earth. Suddenly there
were two more. I was astonished for I
had never seen anything like this before.
The first one said to me, speaking dis­
tinctly low: You have borne your pain
bravely, be of good cheer, all will be well,
and you will soon regain your lost health
and strength.’ The apparition must have
lasted a minute, but to me it seemed to be
an hour. From that moment I steadily
gained my health and strength.”
It seems to me that the intense pain the
woman was suffering was transmuted into
evoking the Divine influences or healing
Angels whose work is to assist those who
reach them by prayer (that is, if it is their
karma to be well. This law of Karma
seems to have been forgotten or misunder­
stood by most people, but neverthless, it is
always working to restore equilibrium.
A similar case I quote from the Chicago
Evening American, Monday, October 24,
1921:
Angel saved wife, pastor asserts. Lon­
don, October 24, 1921, by a London Daily
HEALING BY DISINCARNATE INTELLIGENCES
Express correspondent. New facts con­
cerning Angels have been given to me by
the Rev. Maurice Elliott, vicar of Snitter-
by, Lincolnshire. The clergyman who says
he met one by appointment at Brighton.
Mr. Elliott’s story is astonishing. He told
me first the full account of how the Angel
came to save the life of his wife, and his
then unborn child. A London Specialist
declared that an immediate operation was
necessary. “My wife and I,” said Mr. El­
liott, “prayed with!* all our hearts for guid­
ance. It was the evening before she was
to go to a nursing home when the Angel
appeared to us. We had prayed that a
messenger might be sent, and he came. He
talked to us there in the room, using the
ordinary language of every day conversa­
tion. One word the Angel used was diag­
nosis. He said that the Specialist was
wrong in his view concerning an operation.
“The next day my own doctor came to
see about my wife’s removal to the nursing
home. I told him that we had decided
against an operation. He was surprised
113
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
beyond measure, and said: ‘Why on earth
have you done that?’
“I replied that we had received other
advice. Later I told him the advice was
given by an Angel. That doctor is writing
a foreword to a book which we are pub­
lishing shortly, giving the history of the
case and verifying the facts as he knows
them.”
A few days subsequent to this the same
Angel appeared to Mr. and Mrs. Elliot.
They had asked Divine guidance to a med­
ical man who would confirm the Angel’s
statement. The Angel told them to cancel
the rooms which they had booked at a Dev­
onshire resort and go to Brighton, and he
would meet them there and he did so.
Walked With Them
“He came to us in our carriage just be­
fore we arrived at the station. I do not
imagine that the other people in the car­
riage saw him, unless some of them were
clairvoyant. The Angel walked with us
through the town, guiding us to a hotel
114
HEALING BY DISINCARNATE INTELLIGENCES
near the aquarium. He walked normally;
there was no gliding or passing through
substances.
“It was then that I noticed that he wore
sandals. He was in conversation with us
the whole time.”
At the hotel the Angel dematerialized,
and this particular visitor has not been
seen since by Mr. Elliott. There occurred
in the hotel the unusual meeting of an­
other specialist, who examined Mrs. Elliott
and found that she was in an entirely
normal condition.
This doctor did exactly as the Angel in
advance said that he would do.
The child of the married couple can also
see Angels, and often tells her mother, “I
have been playing with the Angels.” A
company of baby angels were manifest to
Mr. and Mrs. Elliott when the little one
was christened in Winchester Cathedral.
Tells of Baby Angels
This is how Mrs. Elliott describes the
incidents: “Angel children, gaily, though
115
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
quietly, formed a semi-circle on the east­
ward side of the font. They seemed to
be loosely joined together by a silver
thread. They were all clothed in white and
beautifully wrapped with pink carnations
and lilies. Some were carrying garlands
of blue bells, some were ringing small sil­
ver bells, and the two leading all the rest
carried a pure white banner on which was
beautifully embossed in burnished gold a
cross and a crown as the infant was placed
in the nurse’s arms two angel children put
a small gold triangle and a silver anchor
on the christening robe.
“Often,” says Mr. Elliott, “I see other
angels. They come to my church and are
around the altar at communion. At serv­
ice, when I see angel figures, or the faces
of friends who have departed from their
material bodies. “I have the greatest diffi­
culty in not stopping and saying to the
congregation: ‘Do you not see these dear
ones around?’”
A Daily Express representative had an
interview yesterday with the doctor re-
116
HEALING BY DISINCARNATE INTELLIGENCES
ferred to by Mr. Elliott, and the remark­
able fact emerges that the rector could
have no apparent means of knowing the
doctor’s status or profession when he
sought his advice in the Brighton hotel.
The doctor makes no reference to special
prayer before he began his holiday at
Brighton. On the other hand, he describes
the strong impression received that he
might be of some help to some while at
Brighton.
Doctor Testifies
The doctor lives in a southeastern sub­
urb, where he is well known and has a
large practice. “I am the doctor referred
to by Mr. Elliott,” he said. “The case oc­
curred while I was staying at a hotel at
Brighton for my own health. I had not
registered there as a medical man. Mr.
Elliott arrived during my stay and the day
after his arrival he followed me into the
drawing-room and, without any introduc­
tion, told me about his wife’s condition and
asked my advice. An extraordinary fea­
ture of the case is that he could not have
117
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
known I was a doctor. I examined his
wife and gave my opinion that no opera­
tion would be necessary, a statement which
greatly relieved him.
“I asked Mr. Elliott how he came to ap­
proach me as a doctor, and he told me he
had seen a messenger from heaven, who
had instructed him to come to the hotel,
where he would find an answer to his dif­
ficulties. It was the Angel’s guidance, he
declared, that led him to me. This state­
ment did not cause me a surprise, because
I have always been ready to help anyone
who might come to me, whether on holiday
or not. I had an impression myself that I
might be of some help to some one at
Brighton.”
In the invisible world there exists many
kinds of intelligences which come into re­
lationship with man. Some are mighty
Spiritual powers, others again, are exceed­
ingly inferior in consciousness to the aver­
age man. The invisible world inter-pene-
trates the visible, and crowds of intelligent
beings throng around in the apparently in­
ns
HEALING BY DISINCARNATE INTELLIGENCES
visible space, varying in power, knowledge
and consciousness. Some of these are ac­
cessible to human requests, others again,
are subject to the will, for the vibration of
thoughts and desires create forms of sub­
tle matter. Their only life is the thought
and idea which ensouls them.
If help is wanted to alleviate suffer­
ing or pain an Angel or Deva is attracted
from the invisible world by the laws of at­
traction, and they illuminate the receptive
brain consciousness of the individual by
thought projection; in this way many cures
are accomplished.
The failure of this kind of (evoking) or
prayer is due to a hidden cause. Every
man has in the past contracted debts by
his wrong thoughts and actions. These
debts must be paid. A transgression of
the law must be answered for in some way,
Suffering or otherwise. A man destined to
suffer physical pain caused by wrong ac­
tions in his past hurls his prayer against
that destiny in vain. The thought forms
he creates by prayer will seek, but will not
119
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
attract. It will be met and thrown back by
the current of past transgressions. We
are living in a universe of perfect law and
order. He who sows, must reap. We can­
not escape our creations. One prayer may
go on its way unopposed and reach the
place to which it is sent, and the other may
be turned aside by the hidden force which
has been caused by some wrong act in the
past. One is answered, the other unan­
swered. In both cases the result is gov­
erned by law.
Many of us seem to forget that there is a
law of cause and effect which is continu­
ally working to adjust equilibrium. The
many cases of incurable diseases are the
result of the working out of this law. A
concentrated prayer is a powerful healing
agent, but it cannot overcome the law of
cause and effect. A comprehension of this
law is wholly beyond the grasp of the
materialist.
At times when the heads of different na­
tions have been ailing and millions have
prayed earnestly and fervently for their
HEALING BY DISINCARNATE INTELLIGENCES
recovery, that they might be healed, in
most cases their prayers were not an­
swered. As an example Pope Benedict XV,
Presidents Garfield, McKinley, Lincoln,
Harding, etc, died when millions of people
were praying for them.
On the other hand, here is a case of
where the prayers of a few effected a cure:
(Chicago Evening American)
Sight of Girl Returns as She Prays
Holyoke, Mass., Jan. 11.—Totally blind
and making preparations to go to Boston
to go to a school for the blind, Miss Doris
Belanger, 21, had her eyesight restored
just as the Salvation Army was ending its
watch night services in its home.
Kneeling in front of the preaching plat­
form, surrounded by a dozen Salvation
Army lassies, all praying for her, and with
more than eighty persons in the hall, Miss
Belanger suddenly jumped up and cried:
“Praise God, I have got it; I can see
again.”
121
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
Adjutant Bloethe jumped to Miss Be­
langer’s side as she started to reel, appar­
ently overcome with joy at the recovery of
her sight. “How many fingers can you
see?” asked Adjutant Bloethe, as he held
his hands before the girl’s eyes. “Five,”
she answered, and a brief test showed that
she could really see once more. . Today she
is able to read a book and travel about
unaccompanied.
Healing by prayer has been the means
of effecting many wonderful cures. The
current of life’s energies which flows
downwards and outwards are directed
to the world for realizing our daily
actions. When our consciousness turns
from the outer world and directs its
attention inwardly, it draws all our forces
towards that which we call “will.”
The sincere individual who desires to be
healed by prayer places his heart and mind
in a receptive attitude. This stills his lower
nature and he is then able to attune him­
self to the finer forces in nature, which he
HEALING BY DISINCARNATE INTELLIGENCES
uses advantageously. Gradually he gets
into rapport with the Spiritually conscious
side of himself, the true I Am. In this
exalted sphere (as well as in any other)
Will and Faith are the basic power and in­
fluences of the healer, and the more faith
there is in the prayer the quicker the re-
sponce and more lasting the effect.
How to Heal by Prayer
Except in the case of the working out of
the law of cause and effect, which I have
pointed out, many cases of diseases have
been cured by prayer. The healer places
his patient in a receptive position; the at­
titude of the healer is one of intense con­
centration. His entire physical organism
vibrates with radiating life forces. The
phsychic atmosphere around him is full
of thought form of great brilliance and
various colors, while the real I AM of
the individual may be said to be touch­
ing the hem of the garment of Him in
Whom we live, move and have our be-
123
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
✓ •
ing. From this state the true healer can
pour into the receptive mind of his patient
the finer forces of nature and thereby re­
cuperate or eliminate that which may cause
the affliction.
124
PART X.
MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS
Cancer
Many apparently incurable cases of can­
cer have been cured by these methods. If
the patient’s vitality is not too low and his
system has not been weakened by drugs, a
scientific fast, under the directions of a
capable Hygienest or doctor should be
tried. When not undergoing a fast, it is
necessary to give the patient a proper
diet. This should include all kinds of Un­
fired Foods, (vegetables), pure honey and
milk in abundance, plenty of fresh air, sun­
shine and exercise in moderation.
Asthma
In cases of Asthma, Bronchitis and all
diseases of the respiratory organs, the
the patient should keep in a temperature
which is of the same degree, as much as
possible. Frequent changes of tempera­
ture, and especially cold air, irritate the
lungs. The patient should do plenty of
125
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
deep breathing exercises, in the open if
possible, and always though the nostrils.
About seventy-five to one hundred deep
breathes daily should be sufficient. How­
ever, if a patient is ruptured, he must be
very careful in practising deep breathing.
Three or four teaspoonsful of honey, and
about the same of Olive Oil should be taken
daily. Concentrate on the Pulmonary cen­
ter, as directed in the first lesson of this
series. Also treatment by suggestion and
fasting will help hasten a cure.
Epileptic Fits
Try to keep your patient from worrying.
Substitute an exclusive vegetarian diet, if
the patient has been in the habit of eating
flesh of any kind, Meat should be abso­
lutely forbidden. This must be religiously
carried out if the patient wishes to effect
a permanent cure. The patient should be
advised to go out in the fresh air as much
as possible. A person who is subject to
these fits is liable to be seized with one at
any time, sometimes falling in the street,
and thereby liable to meet with a fatal
MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS
accident. It is always best that they be
accompanied by someone when they are
out. Every time the patient is being seized
with a fit, his attendant or healer should,
clap his hands loudly, and in a commanding
voice, demand him to_come out of that con­
dition. If the demand is made simultan­
eously with the clapping of the hands, the
patient will quickly respond, and come out
of the epileptic condition and in time be
entirely cured.
Stuttering
This is usually caused by lack of proper
control of the vocal cords. A simple
method of concentration carried out hon­
estly and truthfully will produce marvel­
ous results.
Example: The person who stutters
should sit down in a quiet room where he
is sure he will not be disturbed. He should
suggest to himself mentally or verbally,
“I will not stutter again, my speech is
perfect, perfect, perfect.” These sugges­
tions should be made slowly and force­
fully. In order that he may get a better
127
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
leverage on his words, each time he uses a
suggestion, he should raise his fore-finger
pointed as though he was keeping time
with an orchestra. His movements should
be slow, very slow. This method, if carried
out faithfully, will give beneficial results.
Tonsilitis
The Tonsils, are glands which eliminate
impuriteis from the system. To cut them
out, (which seems to be the fashionable
habit,) naturally destroys their function­
ing. When the blood becomes saturated
with poison caused from flesh eating, the
tonsils become clogged with poison and a
fungus growth sets in to feed on the poi­
sonous condition. The swelling, pains, etc.,
which is the general condition in an
attack of tonsilitis, is simply an accumula­
tion of flesh poisoning which the patients
constitution is unable to eliminate. Cut­
ting out these glands only surpresses Ton-
silitus and causes Sciatic Rheumatism,
Lumbago etc. The best cure for Tonsilitus
and the accompanying ailments, is to stop
128
MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS
eating flesh food, and as soon as the flesh
poison has entirely left the system, which
will probably take about a year at least,
the patient will never be troubled with his
Tonsils again, unless he should go back to
a flesh diet.
Nervous Headaches
First: Remember that the sub-conscious
mind is to be treated as though it is a
separate and distinct entity. The sugges­
tion must first be made that the headache
is about to stop. Then that it is stopping,
and finally that it is entirely gone. These
suggestions may be made either mentally
or verbally, and should be persisted in until
the desired effect is produced. By having
confidence in yourself, and continuing the
mental and verbal suggestions after the
pain has ceased, you will finally bring
about permanent results.
Female Troubles
About 70% of all women are contin­
ually complaining of some kind of ailment.
129
-
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
About 40% of these complaints may be
traced to imagination.
About 20% of the ailments of young
married women can be traced to the young
husband. Over 70% of all men are suffer­
ing, or have suffered at some time of their
lives, from venereal diseases of some kind,
the results of promiscuous intercourse.
These diseases have never been cured or
eliminated internally. They have only been
suppressed with drugs and other quack
nostrums. Nature, as we know her is a
hard task mistress to those who transgress
her laws, consciously or otherwise. As
drugs are not a 'cure, but only suppress the
symptoms, the same disease will come to
the surface in later years. When a man
who has had venereal disease, gets married,
he transmits these diseases to his wife,
causing what is generally called “The
Whites.” The young wife ignorantly be­
lieves, or is made to believe, that it is a
natural after effect of married life and is
advised to use certain drugs to suppress
the condition.
130
MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS
Here again the evils of the drug habit
has its effect on the wife. One poison
calls for another, until nature refuses to
function normally, in a certain part of the
sex organs. Then the high priced Special­
ist is called, and he carefully examines his
patient, and naturally his advice is that
the useless part or parts must be operated
upon and cut out. He is very careful to do
a good job, for experience has taught him
that one operation always calls for another.
Drugs have never cured venereal, or any
other disease as I have pointed out in pre­
vious lessons. A permanent cure can only
be brought about by a systematic method of
fasting and dieting under the direction of
a capable Hygienest or doctor, who under­
stands the drugless method of healing.
Catarrh
For Catarrh and dizziness, breathing ex­
ercises as directed in the Science of breath­
ing may be followed. Inhaling through the
right nostril and exhaling through the left,
131
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
and vice versa, twice daily for two minutes
increasing to five.
Sciatica Rheumatism
This can be cured by scientific fasting,
massage and diet. Diet plays an important
part in effecting a permanent cure. The
patient should abstain entirely from meat.
Cold Sponge baths, plenty of exercise, ex­
posing the afflicted parts to the sun when
convenient, without scorching themselves.
The patient should also eat plenty of celery.
Self Treatment
The person wishing to heal himself by
mental or suggestive Therapeutics, must
first try to have a consdpus realization of
the “I am” and understand that conscious
“I am” part of you is the real self, while
the body is only its vehicle. Allow this
“I am” to treat your physical body as
though it were treating some one else.
The subtle force projecting from the “I
am” conscious thought is a natural force
132
I
MISCELLANEOUS SUBJECTS
or energy as real as any other force of
which we have proof, such as electricity.
Feel this force or energy, penetrating
and vibrating through your whole being,
healing and soothing the afflicted parts.
While doing this visualize that which you
are desirious of eliminating or creating.
Hold the fixed idea in consciousness. Will
it, affirm and believe it. Suggest to every
cell that the conditions you are desirous of
creating or eliminating must and will come
to pass.
In giving these self treatments, you
should always address yourself as though
you were speaking to another person. Speak
your name in full and say, you are better,
“You are well. The diseased organs are
functioning properly. “Here name the
afflicted parts.
The secret underlying this method of
self treatment is this: you awaken and
plant the seeds in the conscious “I am”
which will naturally become manifest in
the unconscious “Me.” In this way you
133
OCCULT AND DRUGLESS THERAPEUTICS
are getting directly in rapport with your
mind organs, viz.: The subconscious mind,
which is the real healer. The idea im­
planted in the subconscious mind, produces
the mental conditions courted.
Repetition of the principle sought after,
plays an important part in mental or self-
healing. It is a well known fact, that sug­
gestion gains force by repetition. The pos­
itive repetition of a suggestion will tend to
make a deeper impressions on the subcon­
scious mind. Repeated suggestions in vari­
ous mental states, and holding the idea of
health desired, will help to induce the orig­
inal idea.
134
THE SECRETS OF DREAMS
A Scientific Interpretation of Dream Life
By YACKI RAIZIZUN
Author of “Your Personal Forces and How to
Develop Them;” “The Psychology of
Success,” etc.
SY N O PSIS OF CO NTENTS
The Dreamer—Symbolic Dreams
How the Ego or Soul Leaves the Body in
Seed
Sonsciousness in the Astral World
Telepathic Dreams
Subconscious Memory
The Experience of the Ego in the Etheric
Regions
How to Evolve the Larger Consciousness
Price— Postpaid 50 cents
OCCULT RESEARCH SOCIETY
Room 415— Chicago-Clark B uilding
Chicago, 111., U . S. A.
800 N orth Clark St.
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF
SUCCESS
BY
YACKI RAIZIZUN
Author of “Your Personal Forces and How to
Develop Them;” “The Secrets of
Dreams,” etc.
CO NTENTS
C oncentrantion
Know T h yself
Fear
Silence
PR IC E--P O S T P A ID 30 CENTS
OCCULT RESEARCH SOCIETY
Room 415— Chicago-CIark Building;
Chicago, 111., U . S. A.
800 N orth Clark St.
f r -
YOUR PERSONAL FORCES
AND HOW TO DEVELOP
THEM
BY
YACKI RAIZIZUN
Author of “The Psychology of Success;” “The
Secrets of Dreams,” etc.
12 mo., 144 pages, Cloth Bound, Gold Stam ped.
PRICE— $1.50 PO STPA ID
B R IE F SY N O PSIS OF “YOUR PE R SO N A L
FORCES.”
Mechanism of the Mind—Subconscious—Self or Waking
Consciousness — Super-Consciousness—Concentration —
Training the Attention—Correct Methods—Memory Cul­
ture Made Easy—Education During Sleep—Methods for
Children—Personal Magnetism—Sex Control—Transmut­
ing Sex Energy—The Pineal Gland and Pituitary Body—
The Will—Spiritual Will—Desire the Inherent Power of
the Ego—How to Kill Fear—The Course of Mankind—
How to Cultivate Self-Reliance—The Art of Changing
for hte Better the Power of Thought—Illustrations—
The Master Mind—Vyasa and Janka and Suka—Medi­
tation and the Silence—The I Am—The God Man—Faith
-
—Intuition—The Law of Success—How to Correctly
Choose the Work Which You are Intended For.
OCCULT RESEARCH SOCIETY
Room 415— 800 N orth Clark St.
Chicago-Clark Bldg. Chicago, 111.
