{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__ramatherio___light_of_egypt.pdf","mytitle":"Light Of Egypt","mylang":"de"}
THE LXGHT OF EGYPT
THE STRANGE STORY OF THE
ROSXCRUCXANS
<;By SRI. RAMATHERIO
LORD EDWARD BULWER LYTTON
an enthusiastic Brother of the Order of Rosicrucians,
described it as: HAn august fraternity-most jealous oí
all secret societies-whose doctrines (hinted at by the
earliest philosophers) are still a mystery to the greatest
scholars not initiated. lts mernbers still prosecute their
profound researches into natural sciences and occult
philosophy, and no monastic order is so severe in the
practice of moral precepts. ti
Prioately I ssued by Permlssion 01 T'he Department
o/ Publica/ion o/ the American Minislraro [or
AMORC
TRADE MARK
The Ancient and Mystical Order Rosae Crucis,
Jurisdiction of N orth America
ROSICRUCIAN PARK
SAN ]OSE, CALIFORNIA
OFFICIAL PUBLICATION NO. EIGHT FEBRUARY. 1928
SIR FRANCIS BACON, K. R. C.
IMPERATOR OF THE ROSICRUCIANS IN THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY
~be ~!,mbolíg.m of tbe ~torp
It is the most astounding story of mystery, romance and religion ever
recorded in the annals oí historical facts. 1 hesitate to attempt its telling in
less than thousands of pages, and amo reluctant to reduce its fascinating
details to mere recitals of gripping events.
Thirty-two hundred years have passed; nearly thir teen thousand genera-
tions of civilization have left their indelible mark upon the evolution of man's
progress oí attainment since the Rose and the Cross were united in this
sublime symbol under which thousands today pursue their illuminated courses
to definite goals oí success, power and inner peace.
1 stand at the Portal of a great city and see through the open gates of
gold, the white city of the Holy Assembly of the Great Brotherhood. And,
secure in the knowledge that eternally it shall be the haven of the seekers
íor Light, Life and Love, 1 glance backward over the descending slopes of
the mountain. In memory's sight 1 see the trammeled lanes of the land
below, peopled with the searching souls and devoted hearts who found thc
Path and paused in their glorious journey long enough to erect the Signs
that point the Way.
Pictured before me is the panorama of the materialized dream of t hc
Magi of old, the inspiration of the Cosrnic Hosts and the labors of the true
kindred. Shall 1 turn again and describe only what 1 see within the sacred
walls? Or fix my view upon the story of the past?
The past is gone; but what sustaining encouragement we find in history's
precedents and through attainment's tests and trials! 1 hear the call:
"Show us the Way !" And to the humble 1 speak the words which only
they will understand. It is the old, old story; "Ad Rosam per Crucem,
ad Crucem per Rosam 1"
SR!. RAMATHERIO, Scribe.
3
The Story of the Rosicrucians
WHO THEY ARE-WHAT THEY DO
Th er e is no other word, perhaps, in th e whole history of man's develop-
ment along the lines of mental power, culture, and personal evolution, that
arouses in the mind so many pictures of human accomplishment against
overwhelmin g odds, as the word Rosicrucian.
Its very sound brings to the consciousness of millions oí persons a
quickening oí the pulse, arrested attention, and visions of men and women in
all ages, in all clirnes, adher in g to a great principie and building for the
future generations a heritage of mental prowess and inner illumination as
noble and adamantine as the pyramids.
And with it all there are the elements of mystery a nd romance as fas-
cinating as any story ever told by j ul cs Verne a nd as rich in hurnan ex-
periences as any encyclopaedia.
TIiE FlRST ROSICRUCIANS
Very tangible and dependable historical evidence indicates the clefinite
existence of the Rosicrucians in th e days of Moses ancl his tribes. The
references to them and their associations at that time give us a traditional
history that leads far back into the dawn of civilization in Egypt and other
oriental countries.
Certain it is that in the mystery schools of the seventeenth dynasty of
Egypt the spir it of the Rosicrucian body was manifest, and if not before,
then at least in the year 1350 B,c., the first foundations of the brotherhood
were laid with every intent that they should remain, as the pyramids and
mystery temples themselves, as eternal monuments to the glory of man's
awakening into the Light of his creative powers.
In the traditional history of the Rosicrucians we find one man standing
out boldly in the light of illumination. He was Amenhotep IV, Pharoah of
Egypt, and the world's "first great cit izen,' to quote the eminent historians
of Egypt's period of re-birth. Descendant of a previous Pharoah who had es-
tablished the first secret schools of advancecl learning in Egypt and who
was known as the Heretic King because of his modern viewpoints, and
born of parents who looked forward to his coming as the first great ruler
of a mighty brotherhood of enlightened men and women, and every ancient
principie of pre-natal education was applied by his parents and special
teachers in order to instill the wisdom of the orient, the wisdom of the
sages, into this unborn consciousness.*
And, Amenhotep IV, at an early age was made King as well as the
high potentate of a secr et organization which in a few years changed the
whole religion of Egypt, cast aside its antiquated art, revised its language
and literature, ended its continuous warfare, reb uil t its falling Temples,
created new cities and instructed the Tribes of Moses in the laws of God
and nature. Out of the great Light t hus brought into almost blinding
effulgence in darkened Egypt, there passed to many lands and to many
nations of peoples a new standard of living, a new system of thinking, a
new process of cooperative action, which became the foundation for every
one of our present day methods of higher education and successful living.
Amenhotep changed his name-along- with thousands of other changes
• The ancient art oí pre-natal culture reached its grea test heights oí development in
Greece. For centuries it has been a forgotten art and is only now receiving the attention
al the hands oí educators--and parents--which it deserves.
4
he authorized-and into the world's history stepped Akhnaten IV, the man
of whom history has written that he was the world's first modernist.
In 1350 B. C. this man left to posterity his well developed plan of con-
ducting secret or private schools for the superior education and preparation
of men and women for the parts they must take in life to be the lights of
civilization, the pathfinders of new and untrammeled roads to health and
success, the leaders of advancing humanity.
His own descendants and the graduates of his secret schools in the
Palace on the banks of the Nile wended th·eir way into other lands- Jerusa-
lem, Persia, India and Greece, and in each of these lands the great work
continued, always under the same symbol, with the same banner, the same
standard and the same cry: "Ad rosam per crucem, ad crucem per rosam!"
To the rose by way of the cross, to the cross by way of the rose!
MEIlNING OF THE NIlME IlND SYMBOL
The brotherhood of the Rosy Cross (Latin, Rosae Crucis), as the organ-
ization has been officially known for so many centuries, derived its name
from the early secret symbol of the society. That symbol is no longer
either secret or mysterious. It served its purpose well in the early days
through being veiled; today it is seen and known in too many lands and
among too many millions of persons to be considered as a secret sign of
any kind.
The symbol is composed of a Cross with a red rose upon its centre.
A great many persons believe that the cross as a symbol had its origin
in the early days of Christianity. That is a mistake. It can be found on
the walls of tombs and temples in Egypt and may be seen on the two
obelisks that were sent from Heliopolis to London and New York City.
The cross has always had several meanings, c1ose1y related. To the mystics
of Egypt or the Orient who were the Iiist to use it, it meant man's body
in either a posture of salutation to the rising sun (with arms he Id out in
horizontal position) or man's body being crucified by the. labors, trials,
tests and sufferings of life. No religious significance was attached to the
• The true symbol of the Rosierueians eonsists of a eross with but ONE red rose in
the centre, usually with no green lea ves or stems. Crosses with a garland of seven roses or a
group of several reses, are only imitations of the true symbol.
s
cross unt il years after the crucifixio n of The Christ, when the cr oss was
adopted by the ear ly church Fathcrs as a symbol of th eir new institution,
and t hat cross adopted by them had a crucified body upon it. The mer c
fact that t he Hebrews and other races had crucified their criminals upon
crosses for y ear s before The Christ was crucified, plainly shows that t hesc
peoples associated no religious ideas with the cross.
However, it was the mystics and sa ges of Amenhotep's schools in the
Palace that evolved the Rosicrucian sym bol by addin g the red rose to the
Cross. Per haps it was Akhnaten himself, for it was he who loved reses
and introduced the Persian ros e into Egy pt. The ros e was made symbol-
ical in the inner consciousness, the spirit, the SOUL of mano The fact
that the rose gradually opened from a tightly closed bud into full bloom
and express ion and then slowly faded and drooped and passed out of sight,
made itself suggestive of the soul of man which came into the youthful
body imprisoned, slowly evolved to manifestation and beauty, and slowly
weakened in its expression until it seemed to be no more. The evolution
of the ros e seemed to typify the evolution of man's sou1. Years of obser-
vation convinced these sages that th e tests and trials of life, the exper iences,
lessons lear ned and suffering endured, co ntr ibutcd to the evolution of th c
soul; to them it seerncd that the soul of man was evolving through the
experiences of the body. Since the cross had éver been to them the sy mbo l
of the body of man in its sufferings, they added the rose to the cross and
created the symbol which has but one explanation. That is:
The Rose (soul) evolves and gains beauty and Iragrance
while being crucified upon the Cross (the body).
From this symbol and the term Rosy Cross, we have the terrn Rosi-
crucian as the English form of the name of the organization which now
exists in every civilized land. Through t he experiences o í life, man's soul
and understanding evolves; through the united experiences of thousands of
members in one brotherhood the soul of the gr oup of persons or even of a
nation, evolves and becomes more potent in the direction of personal and
national affairs.
That is the explanation of the symbol and the name. It is age-o ld,
honored, respected and glorified in every clime, and in its name has man-
kind achieved and succeeded beyond his fondest dreams.
There is no religious, or sectarian creed associated with the symbol
and its application, and J ews and Gentiles and those of every religious
denomination are associated together in the Rosicrucian organization,
working together for one great aim-the redemption of man from ignor-
ance, and freedom from the enslaving obstacles which hold man in the
bonds of ill-health, misfortune and unhappiness.
FASCINATING STORY OF TE-IE BROTE-IERHOOD'S GROWTH
From out of Egypt and Palestine as well as Greece carne the great
LIGHT which in many lands was protected by the secret brotherhood.
Under various names-but always with t he same ideals and standards-the
brotherhood operated. We found them referred to as the Therapeuti, The
Essenes, t he Silent Brot hers, and many other names in the middle ages,
when secret or prívate schools of advanced lear nirig were forbidden. Just
as the pagan priesthood of ancient Egypt finally cast into oblivion all that
th e Amenhotep IV and his brotherhood had accomplished in that land and
brought the great darkness over the nation again, so other priesthoods in
the middle ages succeeded in forcing the state to forbid the spread of the
awakening consciousness in the peoples who sought The Light. But ever did
the work continue, and the time came in the 13th century when in every
par t of Europe as well as in the Orient, the fraternity of the Rosy Cross
was a mighty factor in the social, political and econornical development
of nations.*
* Historians 01 all ages ha ve crerlited the Rosicrucians with havmg had considerable
direct and indirect influence upon the advancement oí national interests and In hundreds oí
cases the promotors 01 vanquished issues have blamed their deleat upon the high idealism 01
the Rosicrucians.
6
In certain long established centres of learning, national and international
headquarters were maintained. Thus as Toulouse, in southern Fr a nce, a seat
of advancement in al! learning, the Rosicrucians maintained one of the
oldest centres of their activities. To this centre carne the philosophers,
educators and leaders of human activity from al! parts of th e world, ancl
it was here that many of the world's most important reforms and ínnovations
had their birth.**
THE STRANGE STORY OF CHRISTIAN ROSENKREUZ
In the thousands of references that one may find about the Rosicrucians
throughout the histories and encyclopaedias of every nation, there is no
stranger story than that of Christian Rosenkr euz in Germany.
According to the average encyclopaedia of today, the mystery of this
man is beyond comprehension. early al! of these encyclopaedias have taken
their story from the original story told in one of Europe's first encyclo-
paedias, published in the days when the Rosicrucian fraternity was stil!
veiling much of its history. That present day American encyclopaedias
should continue to publish that story in the light of thousands of books
which contain the actual facts, indicates t he indifferent attitude that one finds
expressed in these volumes on many subjects not commonly known.
According to the erroneous story told, a group of scientists opened
a tomb in Cassel, Gerrnany, in the 17th century and there found the body
of Christian Rosenkreuz, the former founder of the Rosicrucian f rater nity,
along wit h papers and documents for the continuance of the organization
hundreds of years after his transition. The real íacts are that there was no
one person known as Christian Rosenkreuz (which latter name means, in
German, Rosy Cross) and such a character was certainly not the founder
of the Rosicrucian Fraternity. However, there are many popular writers on
the subject of Rosicrucianism today, and a Rosicrucian fel!owship in
America which believes that the whole Rosicrucian order started in Germany
at the hands of Christian Rosenkreuz, and he (!) is named by these
per so ns as their beloved founder and originator of the form of Rosicrucian
teachings they present. The incongruity and inconsistency of these statements
do not seem to dawn upon those who adhere to this ancient absurdity.
Aman who never existed as the personality attributed to him could not
have founded or originated an organization that was in existence hundr eds
of years before the time given as the date of his foundation work.
Who, or what, was Christian Rosenkreuz? This is the question that was
asked sevcral hundred years ago when a series of books or pamphlcts
were issued in Germany informing the "learned of Europe" that the Rosi-
crucian fraternity w as again active in the lands of that continent. These
books-among them the renowned Fama Fraternitatis-were issued under
the fictitious name of Christian Rosenkreuz, or "e. R. e. " Investigations
revealed that the books were the work of Sir Francis Bacon, Lord Verulern.
Bacon had become the international chief of the Rosicrucian fraternity as
had other eminent characters in the past; and he proceeded to enlarge the
activities of the Order and bring it into conservative publicity through the
issuance of books credited to a fictitious name that told every student of the
Rosicrucian teachings that the real author was a Christian Brother of the .
Rosy Cross.
The same name or the initials "e. R. e." had been used centuries before.
In the vear 908 B. e. the name was used by Zoroaster while he was
Supr eme Magus of the mystic frater nities of his time. In 1290 A. D. the sarne
name was used again in connection with an event similar to that which
occurred in Cassel, Ge rmany, in 1604. Al! who are familiar with even the
superficial facts of the origin and historical activities of the Rosicrucian
fraternity or Drder, know that aman, one man having a genuine name of
Christian Rosenkreuz, did not found or originate the Order in Germany in
any century. Ernphasis is put upon this fact with reiteration here because
of its extreme importance to American persons who are seeking the facts.
Toulouse was ever the centre of ethical culture and many oí the ancient temples oí
arcane knowledge remain as monumerits to this day.
7
SIR FRANCIS BACON'S REGIME
Lord Bacon is gene rally acknowledged to have done more for the
universal growth of the Rosicrucian Order than any other man since the
middle ages. He found the fraternity and its hundreds oí branches in
Europe and the Orient, an excellent channel for the important changes which
he wished to bring about in the practical affairs oí men's lives.
Not only did he revise the activitics oí the Order in Germany, where
he made Valentine Andreae his Deputy, but he sent his brother and other
associates to every part oí Europe to lectur e and propagate t he work openly
among the learned and sincere. He it was who lifted t he obscure veil that
enshrouded the fra ter nity, and daring t he criticisrns of state, ensconced it
with the halo of glory to which Lord Lytton referred in his famous novel
about the Rosicrucians, called Zanoni. At once the Order attracted to itself
the interest of nobility as well as the men and women of the average wa lks
of life, and like a tidal wave sweeping over some level land, the prestige and
good works of the Rosicrucians reachcd every land.
Before his transition, and while Imperator of the Order in Europe,
Bacon made plans for the spr ead of the work to America. This he did by
writing a story ca11ed The New Atlantis, or the House oí Solomon. This
was, presurnab ly, a story oí a newly discovered land in t he Atlantic where
everything was done according to Rosicrucian standards. But in the story
was contained the famous Bacon secret code which he also used in writing
the Shakespearean plays and many other books now found to be his work.
THE COMING OF THE ROSICRUCIANS TO AMERICA
In the code used by Bacon, instructions were given for the establishment
of a national centre on the shor es of America. For years the strange plans
in this book puzzled those who read it and knew not the ideas back of it.
Then in 1693 t he plans began to materialize and in a11 parts of Europe
men and women carne together in Rosicrucian sessions to sclect those
who were to carry out the Baconian plan. Fina11y in the fa11 of 1693 a group
of several hundred men with their families were decided upon and they
joined together in England and Ho11and
Men for the plan were selected according to their professions and
trades. A11 men had to be able to contribute to the knowledge and experience
required, and in the winter of 1693 the group of Rosicrucians set sail for
America in their own chartered boat, the Santa Maria.
No more fascinating story of pilgrimage is told in history than this*
They trave11ed under the auspices of Bacon's former Lodge in London,
the Rosicrucian Lodge known as Philadelphia**, and they carr ied with them
rar e manuscripts, records, scientific devices and implem ents such as had not
be en brought to America before.
Early in the year of 1694 they arr ived at a small village and at once
began to build their own buildings and homes and they Iina lly cooperated
with the others who were there in layin g out a lar ge city. To this place they
gave the name of their former Eng lish Lodge, Philadelphia. It has been
commonly understood that the quakers, who were in that city in small
numbers, gave th e name to the city, bUI records preserved in the historical
museum in Philadelphia and many other records preserved in Christ Church
in Philadelphia show that th e Rosicrucians gave the name to the city.
Parts of their first buildings in Philadelphia still rernain in what is now
known as Fairmont Park, where one may stroll along Mystic Lane. In other
parts of Pennsylvania many of the original buildings rernain in exce11ent
condition.
* See fOI" instanee, the book by Julius Saehse, eontaining their own reeords 01 this
lamous pilgrimage, and cther books in the Congressional Library on the early my stics 01
Pennsylvania.
** It was common practise to name the Rosicrucian Lodges after some of the Greek
or Oriental cities. This custom st il] prevails and the Greek word Philadelphia was very
popular with the Rosierueians.
8
WHAT ROSICRUCIANS DID POR AMERICA
Soon after their settlement the Rosicrucians demonstrated to the world
their highly practical system of furthering the best interests of mankind.
They estab lished one of the first and lar gest paper milis, bookbinding
plants and printing establishments. Then they built America's first astrori-
omical observatory, where Brother Ritte nhouse made many of the most
famous astronomical observations recorded in history. It was in thcir
community that they established the first scientific acaderny, the first
ethical and cultural schools, the first free schools for children along the
higher lines of study and the first no n-scctarian schools of philosophy and
theology.
It was here that Peter Miller, the Master of the Rosicrucian Lodge,
translated the Declaration of Independence so that all foreigners in America
might read it, and it is known that the final copy was engrossed and
executed in the art department of the Rosicrucian organization. The first
church organs made in America were built here and the first botanical
gardens were established here. Hunclrecls of America's first educational plans
and institutions had their origin in this community and records are replete
with the activities which clemonstrated how practical the organization is in
all its interests in man's behalf. .
AMERICA'S FlRST EMINENT ROSICRUCIANS
Most of t he leading characters in that Rosicrucian body became his-
tor ical ly íamous as one soon finds in examining the tombstones in the olcl
cemetery. Name after name is familiar to the student of American history.*
It was Benjamin Franklin, an officer of the work in later years, who
carried out t he educational icleas of Bacon and spread the library idea int o
popular form. Thomas J efferson, the President of the U nitecl States, was an
officer of the Rosicrucian body and before his transition he wrote a mystical
interpretation of the Bible along Rosicrucian lines and secured an appro-'
priation from Congress to have it printed-a most unusual proccdur e which
has never been equalled.
The work of the first Rosicrucians spread rapidly throughout the
colonies in the first hundred years and laid a foundation for it from coast
te coast.
In the meantime thc Or der in Europe became wiclely organized and
highly aclvancecl in its scientific application of nature's laws and principles
to man's immediate benefits.
THE PRESENT ORDER IN AMERICA
Just before the great world war, the leadinz Rosicrucian bodies of
Europe clecided upon a complete real location of Rosicrucian J urisdictions
throughout the world. Many congresses w ere held and var ious Supreme
Councils assembled in many cities. During all these years the continent of
America was still under the clirection of European jurisclictions. The new
plans wer e to make it a separate jurisdiction.
In the summer of 1909, Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, íormer President of
the N ew York Institute of Psychical Resear ch and editor of several meta-
physical and occult magazines, went to Toulouse, France, the ancient seat
of the Rosicrucian activities of Europe and for the past hundred years or
more, the meeting place for continental Rosicrucian congress·es.
'* A very important point must be mentioned here. Some students of the Rosicrucian
history discovered among early American records the name of one Dr. Randolph as a Rosi-
crucian and they ha ve stated that he organized the first Rosicrucian society in America.
They claim that Dr. Randolph "e stab lished the first Rosicrucian body in America, in the
year 1856." They are wholly unaware 01 the lacts. Rando1ph did try to establish a separate,
personal and independent society, which fa iled. This was precisely 163 years alter the real
Order was established in Philadelphia and ' still active in America.
9
H. SPENCER LEWIS, F. R. C. Ph. D.,
IMPERATOR OF THE AMORC OF NORTH AMERICA
MEMBER OF THE SUPREME COUNCIL OF THE WORLD
LEGATE OF THE ORDER OF FRANCE
There, under the auspices of the French jurisdiction, the Order Rose
Croix, a special group of high officers, initiated Dr. Lewis into the inter-
national organization and appointed him their Legate to establish a separate
Jursdicticn of the Order for America.
Previous to this, many prominent Americans had been initiated into the
Order in France, England and Germany, while traveling abroad, and all
had been advised that in time the Order in Ame rica would be one of thc
largest of all the Jurisdictions.
THE GREAT AMERICAN CONCLAVE
Dr. Lewis returned from Europe and began at once his official activities.
In the ear ly fall of 1909 he held conferences with a number of those who
had been initiated abroad and who were familiar with the rules and
regulations of the foreign jurisdictions and acquainted with the Supreme
Officers abroad.
The task of translating into English the many documents and papers of
authority, required months of labor, and the formation of a foundation
committec necessitated rnany interviews and private council meetings.
Twelve men and women had been placed on the foundation committee by
Dr. Lewis before the end of 1909, and thereafter many months were
spent by these persons assisting in the preparation of literature, a new and
typically American constitution for the Order, and the development of many
new features that had not been introduced into the American form of
Rosicrucianism. All this had to be done 11l great secrecy until a certain stage
of the work was reached.
When this point was attained there came to Dr. Lewis the fi rst of the
many messengers oí the Order in Eurcpe. This first repres entative was
Dr. May Banks-Stacey, wife of Colonel Stacey, and a descendant of the
Cromwell's and D'Arcy's of France. A woman of wide travel and many
affiliations, she came as a special legate of the Order in India. She brought
to Dr. Lewis and the foundation Committee t he final papers of preparation
for the great work, and the Jewel of Authority, a rar e officia! emblem,
and valuable t reasur es from the archives of the Oriental headquarters.
During her stay in America she acted as the first Matre of the Order.
THE GREAT NATIONAL CONVENTION
In t he surnrncr of 1916 the work of the Order had spread so rapidly
in new scctions of America and so many new branches were in operation
that a national convention of all officers and delegates was held in
Pittsburgh, Perms ylvania for one week. At this convention the principal
officers of every American branch and the delegates from every state were
presento Sessions were held during the day and evenings with lectures,
demonstrations and discussions.
It was at this great convention that a cornmitt ce composed of leading
characters in many other fraternal or ganizations, devoted their time to a
study of the national constitution of the Order as it had been worked out
by the supr em e officers in the years preceding. On the last day of the
Convention the Committee read the proposed constitution and it was
adopted, paragraph by paragraph by the delegates assembled. Other matters
of great importance to the Order were definitely settled at this convention
and at the one held in ew York in the summer of 1918.
l)art mwo
AMERICA'S FIRST ROSICRUCIANS
The first Rosicrucians to come to America and bring their wisdorn to
this new country were those who journeyed to the Pacific Coast early in
the seventeenth century and deposited there the "foundation stone" and
documents of the last C. R. C. of Europe.
But the first group of the Fraternity to come to America and establish
the wo rk came in a specially chartered boat in 1694. They lcft all parts of
Europe under the direction of the Master Kelpius, in accordance with th c
plan s rnade by Sir Francis Bacon, the European Imperator of the Fraternity,
and published in the secr et book called "The N ew Atlantis" or the "House
of Solomon."
They arrived at what is now known as Philadelphia and built rna ny
buildings, "temples" and schools and gave Amcrica its first knowledge of
the secret laws of nature. Parts of the original buildings still remain in
Fairraount Park, and elsewhere, and America's historical records are rep!ete
with facts about the excellent work accomplished by the Fraternity in behalf
of the Ir eedorn and advancement of this country*' Many Arnericans
prominent in the -ear ly hist ory and foundation of this country, such as
Thornas Jefferson and Benjamín Frankliu, were associated with this great
work.
As one prominent American newspaper man recently wrote: "It is one
of the joys of America's growth as wel! as prides of her history to have
had the influence and power of the Rosicrucian Fraternity." And years
later, when the Frater rrity made its public Revelation of its existence, the
newspapers made much favorable comment fr orn coast to coast. For in-
stance, the Pittsburg Leader said: "This is a distinct honor which will be
understood later on."
THE ROSICRUCIANS IN THE WORLD TODAY
In every civilized land the Fraternity is in operation today, using the
ancient Latin name ANTIQUUM ARCANUM RUBEAE ROSAE ET
AUREAE CRUCIS, or the abbreviated English form, Ancient and Mysti cal
Order Rosae Crucis (AMORC).
All of the Grand and local Lodges of the Fraternity are affiliated with
and form an essential part of the International Congress.
The world is divided into definite jurisdictions an d the largest of these
is that of J orth America, with its Supr erne Council, Supreme Master and
Administration Building located at San Jose, California, after having been
located for a period of years in the East and then on the Pacific Coast.
The work of the Order is still conducted along the traditional lines, and
men and women of acceptable qualifications are admitted to its mernber-
ship by invitation**.
12
THE SECRET ARCHIVES OF ROSICRUCIAN KNOWLEDGE
It is not strange that every seeker for arcane knowledge sooner or
later comes face to face with the fact that he rnust turn to the Archives
of the Rosicrucian Fraternity for the more profound laws, principlés and
*' , Many interesting facts regardiug the ea rly American Rosicrucians and their
inf1uence on American foundations are given in the very precise wr itings of Watson,
America's rnost careful a na ly st and historian. Other facts, records, documents, and relics
w ill he found in the historical museum of Philadelphia.
** I Lt is a11 ancient practice of the Fraternity to invite desirable or sincere seekers
to unite with members. Fo r centuries in Europe it has been considered a distinct honor
to be invited to come within the ranks hy heing handed a11 application formo
manifestations of nature's secrets. It is a notable fact, testified to by every
research student along every line of specific instruction, that each avenue
of search, each path of enlightenment, and each source of unbiased knowlcdge
brings the enquiring mind to the original and inexhaustible goal of the
Rosicrucian college.
Whether we inquire into the true and tested principies of psychology,
the established and dependable laws of health and long life, the funda-
mental s of religion and philosophy, or the attainment of mastership in lifc's
problerns, we find that constant reference, quotations and recommendations
by thousands of eminent writers in all ages bring us eventually to the
reserved teachings of the Rosicrucian schools. There probably never was
and never will be any other single sour ce and fountain of arcana, universal
knowledge equal to the present systems of this organization.
THE ORIGIN OF ROSICRUCIAN KNOWLEDGE
Since the dawn of civilization the specialized knowledge and wisdom of
man has been car efully preserved. How often we are astounded at the
marvelous things known to or accornp lis hed by the ancients. How many
times are we impressed with the fact that the ancients possessed rare
knowledge, far beyond the knowledge of today, which we discern in small
driblets of wisdom gathered from their writings. It has be en believed for
ages that the wisdom, the rare, secret knowledge possessed by the Master
minds of the past has been carefully preserved. But by whom? And where?
In all ages there have been the few-the specially learned and wise, the
master philosophers, the initiates=-who have had access to the arcana,
secret and vital principies of all knowledge, and these persons have car e-
fully coricealed such knowledge from the unwort hy, the evil-rninded and the
selfish. Such persons have constituted the school of advanced wisdom and
their organization has been known by many names but always under the
direction of one Great Brotherhood. N ow we find this knowledge pr es-
erved and taught through the channels of the Rosicrucian Order, one of
the original conservators of such knowledge.
WHAT DID THE ROSICRUCIANS TEACH?
It is the general belief of the investigators of the Rosicrucian teachings
that the mernber s of the Fraternity were experts and masters in the subjects
of the transmutation of base metals into pure gold, the prolonging of life,
the immcdiat e cure of disease, the performance of seeming miracles, the
control of nature's forces, the mastership of life's problems, and were
directors of future events. And they have always be-en credited with pos-
sessing the correct knowledge of God, life, transition and immortality.
Many books and papers refer to the Rosicrucians as Alchemists and
Hermetic Physicians. The truth of the matter is that the Rosicrucians of
all ages not only devoted their time in laboratories to transmuting metals,
but a greater part of their time was spent in transmutirig the baser elements
of human nature into the pure gold of health, happiness and prosperity.
This was their higher form of alchemy. Their general teachings and activ-
ities were devoted to overcoming the obstacles in life which kept progressive
men and women from attaining individual heights. Therefore their teachings
include the secret facts of nature about health; the source and nature of the
vital force of life; how it could be retained and increased, and how disease
of all kinds might be prevented or cured. They taught also the nature of
many of the strange universal forces which surrounded man and which few
even today suspect as existing.
THE MENTAL POWERS OF THE ROSICRUCIANS
However, one needs to read only a few books about the Rosicrucians,
such as Lord Lytton's "Zanoni" and Marie Correlli's "Life Everlasting,"
to see that the greatest power developed by the Rosicrucians was the men-
tal power they were able to use.
13
The Rosicrucians taught-esoterically-that every thing in the world,
from the smallest cel! in a living or non-living body to the rocks in distant
mountains, could be affected by an unsuspected mental powcr which can
be developed by their formulas. They pointed out how they could make
their thoughts become concrete realities : how they could transmit thoughts
from one place to a more distant place; they demonstrated their ability
to make people think and act in accordance with law, and to have nature's
forces obey their wil!s. Al! the seeming miracles of ancient Babylon, P.ersia,
India and the Orient gener ally they reduccd to simple processes. They
sought to become mighty in the power to foresee, to hold back the progress
of undesirable conditions, or set into motion newer and more favorable
conditions.
Al! this they taught each selected student to do for himself. They did
not perform miracles for one another, for they taught that each person
possesses a power and a faculty to direct his own affairs more efficiently
than anyone else could do it for him*
THE TESTS OF HUNDREDS OF YEARS
As the ages passed, the teachings of the Rosicrucians were tested by
newer knowledge at the hands of later Master teachers and workers. From
century to century the Rosicrucian teachings were ame nd ed, strengthened,
improved and widened in their scope until they now ernbrace knowledge in
every scientific field, in every ar t, profession, industry and business activity
of modern times.
WHO ARE TI-JEY TODAY
The Rosicrucians of today are practica! men and women, occupying
high governmental positions in every land, leaders in al! forms of education,
in schools, colleges and universities. They include clergymen of every de-
nomination -theological leaders and eminent international authorities; phy-
sicians and scientists of very high grade; lawyers, judges, bankers, musicians,
artists, inventors and h eads of big corporations; newspaper editors and
owners; and men and women in every humble walk of life who are more
successful and prosperous, happy and masterful than the average persono
o one is ever dcnied admission because of lack of col!ege or academic
education. Moral character and sincerity of desire are the only quali íica-
tions considered.
Al! agree in their enthusiastic comment upon this one point: The k nowl-
edge given to them in their studies and through their connection w ith the
Fraternity has enabled them to round out th ei r own lives, and more effi-
ciently carry on their life work, in a manner almost impossible without the
benefits derived from the SPECIALIZED knowledge they now possess.
THE GREAT WORK TODAY
ot only is the Great Work of the Fraternity still carried on in Europe
and other lands, with periodic International and National congresses to unify
the work throughout the world, but in America the organization is especiaIly
systematized and well foundecL
The N orth American continent constitutes the largest single jurisdiction
of the Fraternity which operat es t hrouzhout the world under the name of
AMORC. In the United States, Canada, Mexico and the dependencies of the
United States, there are Co lle ge, University and Lodge Branches, as well as
study gr oups in every irnpor tant city and town, with many reading rooms
In this regard the Rosicrucians have ever been difIerent from those schools or
mov.ements which merely state what can be done or has been done by past "Mastera". The
Rosicrucians teach each member precisely how to demonstrate individually, when and where
required by personal conditions. It is for this reason that the Rosicrucians are called
practica1 and not speculative workers and teachers.
14
and study halls always open to those who are associated with the work.
ational conventions have been held in the 'ni ed States and hundreds
of newspaper and magazine articles have appeared in the public pres , within
the last twenty year s, referring to the unusual features offered by the
Rosicrucian ystem of education and evolution.
THE f/ALUE OF MEMBERSHIP iN TllE AMORC
It is no simple matter to present to the seeker or investigator a true
pictur e revealing all the facts and minute details of so vast and vital an
organization as that most popularly known as the Rosicrucian Frat er nity.
A thousand years ago t he greatest rnas te rs of thought and pen pictures
found it so. Sir Francis Bacon, while international chief of the var iou s
continental Ro icrucian organizations, found it necessary to write ancl have
published a number of books under disti nctive titles, aclequately to reveal
to the worthy seeker the real nature of the Fraternity.
Lord Bulwer Lytton resorted to a method typical of the means usecl
before and after his time ancl wrote a novel called "Zanoni" in which he
cleverly revealed the exi tcnce, teachings and activities of the Rosicrucian
of his day. And we have had the writings from th e pen of Mar ie Correlli,
helly, Ainsworth and other in which the Rosicrucians are mentioned
frankly and their beneficial teachings and endeavors beautifully expounded.
A thousand books in the past thousand years have mentioned the Frater-
nity or de cribed the work of one or more of its great lcader s. No organ-
izatio n in the world, aside fr orn the Essenes and Th erapeuti of th e Or ient
has been so generally known for ages ancl yet evaded the skill of the writer's
pen to do it justice. Perhaps this one feature alone is responsible fOI" the
clas ification of the Fraternity as an exclusive or "secret" society.
THOUSANDS ARE SEEKING-FEW ARE WORTHY
Thousands in every section of the world today are inqui ring for and
seeking aft.er precisely what AMORC offers. We know this from the letters
received daily from every part of the civilizecl worlcl. ever before in the
history of civilization has there been such an awakening to the higher things
of life, and never has there been such a universal call for association with
those who know and can reveal the many funclamental principIes, laws and
forces that make one man, or one woman, more hea lt hy , successful, and
happy than another.
The AMORC stands today, a dicl its ancient par ent bodie , as one of the
most vital, co nstr uctive, re-crea tive force in the world devoted to the
personal and national benefits of mankind. Becau e this is so, it has the
endorsement, enthusiastic support and happy co-ope ratio n of rnen and women
in every walk of life, in every profes ion, art and science, and in every
civilized land of the world. who have been Iound worthy of aclmi sion.
Strangely, many of t he modern encyclopedias continue to reprint the
blind or veiled history of the Fraternity which appeared in "Charnber's
Encyclopedia" many year ago, when the organization wa so exclu ively
operated that it was thought to have passed out of exi tence. A notable
exception-and there are a number-is a recent edition wherein our pr eserit
Irnperator, or Chief Executive of the AMORC, is mentioned as an authority
on the subject and history of the Ro icrucians.
FAMOUS ROSICRUCIANS
It appear as a notable fact that in every country w here gr eat strides
were made in civilization, the historians of the time made reference to the
evolutionary effect of the Rosicrucians and t hei r teachings upon the peo ple
as a preliminary step to the advances made, Many are the references in
books dealing with chemistry, meclicine and sur gery, music ancl astronomy,
giving credit to the profound knowledge of the Rosicrucians and the irn-
portant effect of that knowledge upon the advancement of these sciences.
To sugge t even a partial list of the eminent character who have been
notable figures in the Fraternity would take many more pages than I have
15
WHY THE FRATERNITY GROWS
at disposal in this book. Suffice it to say that the Rosicrucian Fraternity
traces its real and traditional history so far back into the past ages that it
is lost in profound mystery, but ever sheds around it a glory of achievement
for its members and a wondrous light of attainment for the nations. Today
the spirit of their great work carries on throughout the world in the work
oí the AMORC. What that work is and what it can mean to you will be
explained on the following pages.
THE PRESENT-DAY ROSICRUCIANS-THE AMORC
The AMORC, as an international, organization, is not a relic of some
ancient Rosicrucian Lodge oí some ONE oí the íoreign branch jur isdicti ons.
It is an authorized continuation of the Order as it has grown into modern
times, and is a lo gical, natural and systematic development and continuation
oí the Rosicrucian principies and ideals as laid down in the past by the
greatest oí the Rosicrucia n leaders and evolved by the master-teachers
oí the ages intervening.
An illustration of the importanee of this faet may be seen 111 the corn-
ment of thousands who have pursued the present-day teachings oí the
AMORC, which comment may be summarized in the words oí a former high
officer of another sehool oí philosophy and metaphysics in America: "Man
has evolved in the past several hundred years through definite cyc1es and
stages oí mental and spir itual awakening and comprehension, just as he has
advanced in scientific aehievement and attainment. Tliose thoughts, those
principies and those ideals which were vital and guiding to him five hundred
or even one hundred Years ago are obsolete now, some even impracticable.
Other sehools of thought, systems of instruction, courses of praetice in life
which have not evolved and advanced st ep by step with rnan's evolution are
passe today. AMORC is notable for its advancement and its foresight in
keeping many steps ahead of mari's pr ese nt stage in eivilization, so that
today the Rosierueian teachings and benefits offered by the AMORC con-
stitute a goal to approach, an ideal to hold before us-a true leadership
to follow."
NOT THE TEACHINGS OF ONE PERSON
There are systems oí philosophieal and higher-thought instruction in the
world today which were outlined or prepared by one or more íounders.
"discoverers" or leaders-systems which were prophetic and ultra-modern in
their day-but because the íounders oí such systerns made no provision for
the advaneement of the teachings, or the gradual growth and evolution of
the system, they stand today as mo nument s oí good in the past but in-
adequate and inefficient today.
The child of today is taught in school, in high sehool, and in speeial
courses, those subjects whieh were select and advanced subjects for the
evolved adult of. a hundred years ago. 1'0 adhere to the philosophic or
scientific teachings of the ancients, no matter how remarkable they rnay
have been in their day, would be equivalent to teaching and promulgating
dead languages as a vital factor in our modern life.
MOST ADVANCED OF ALL TEACfIlNGS
The r\MORC of today preserves ano pr escnts in the most impressive
and helpful mann er every law and principie that was known to and used by
the ancient Rosicrucians and which made them famous as the forerunners oí
all scientific, occult, metaphysical and practieal schools making for man's
greater growth and development. Each year oí the past Iive hundred years
or more has seen additions made to those fundamental teachings. Each
month oí the past hundred years has seen the ancient system of instruction
and cooperative benefits impr oved, modernized and advanced.
16
ADMINISTRATION AND RADIO BROADCASTING BUILDING
IN THE HEART OF ROSICRUCIAN PARK, SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
(
During the past twenty years, the cvolutionary growth of the plan of
AMORC has been phenomenal. In every field of endeavor, in every art,
science, and domain of thought, AMORC has taken great steps forward until
today its knowledge of certai n laws of natur e, activities of the human mind,
powers oí personal forces, manifest ation s of principies and possibilities of
unsuspected agencies, is far in adva nce of man's general evolution and
greatly in the lead of al! other schools or movements.
A GLORJOUS ACfIlEVEMENT
In other words, AMORC, typiíying the Rosicrucian spuit, represents
today the very soul of the Rosicrucian Fraternity of all ages-the most
advanced and practical guide or movemcnt in man's behalf. This has been
no simple achievement. No organization but that which lives with the spi rit
of true Rosicrucianism-c-Iear less, dauntless, and mighty in its own powers-
could have survived in the past decades the rnany obstacles to growth and
the insistent attacks of its natural enemies-the enemies of al! progress.
one but the present Imperator of th e AMORC, Harve Spe ncer Lewis,
F. R. c., Fh. D., could have accornplished th e tremendous task set for him
when he accepted the obligation and duties of his office for the purpose of
re-establishing the Fraternity in modern times as Bacon was commissioned
to do in the seventeenth century in Europe, and others before him.
THE EGYPTIAN
CARTOUCHE
SO ME ROSICRUCIAN SYMBOLS
THE R. c.
TRIA.NGLE
THE
ROSY CROSS
18
SEAL 01' THE
SUPREME COUNCIL
TI-lE DISTINCTIVE CI-lARACTER OF TI-lE FRATERN1TY
As one may sense from what has becn said on the pr ecedin g pages, the
Rosicrucian Fraternity ever was, and still is, a very distinctive body so Iar
as fraternal organizations go. In days gone by one of its outstanding features
was its recognition of the equality of the sexes. This does not seem excep-
tional today, but in this Fraternity women have ALWA YS been cligible for
every bcnefit or office, and the organization points with pr ide to the fact
that it was the first international organization to assist women to compete
with men efficiently in all arts and sciences. The wholesomcness and broad-
ness of its work perrnits men and women to share alike in its benefits.
The absence of sex distinction has resulted in another impressive feature.
Men and their wives, mothers, daughters and sons are found associated in
the studies and work. It is a delightful scene to witness couplcs and families
of from three to ten per so ns, young and old, attending lectures 01' studyin g
home lessons together just as they go to church or theatre together without
separation or disqualification because of sex!
TEACI-lINGS ARE NOT SPECULATIVE
The next important distinction between this Fraternity and other Broth-
erhoods IS due to its practical and operative nature. lt is not and never has
been a speculative bo dy or a school of theoretical philosophy. This state-
ment is not intended to be a criticism of those fraternal movernents, schools,
or cults which deal exhaustively with speculative philosophies or metaphysi-
cal theories. It is because these things have some sort of place in our lives
that they exist. The AMORC of today devotes its time and efforts to those
things which have to do with the practical affairs of life HERE and NOW!
Convinced of the immortality of the soul, and referring to this con-
viction often in its teachings, it uses the law of laws which makcs the soul
immortal to aid the individual in attaining health and power on this plane
of existence. Demonstrating all the laws that relate to our exist ence in a
spiritual, divine and metaphysical sense, the demonstrations are made in such
manner, and accompanied by such lectures, as will enable the stuclent to
apply the same laws in meeting obstacles, trials and ternptat ions of this life-
daily and hour ly.
GUIDING TI-lE SEEKER TO MASTERSHIP
The obligations of each individual to God and His Decrees are not
evaded or rninirnized. But his further obligations to those dependent upon
hirn, to his fellow man and himself, are clearly pointed out and demonstrated.
Even more than this, he is taught, carefully and step by step, how he may
cfficiently, successfully ancl joyfully meet these eart hly, material, practical
obligations and rise to power and mastership. Such practical work is the
keynote of the AMORC teachin gs and practices.
The ancient Rosicrucians were popularly known as chemists, alchemists
and scientists, as well as humanitarian workers. It is notable that the most
advanced of them were not found in isolated habitations, living as hermits,
giving to the world nothing more t hau an illuminatecl book of inspiring
philosophy. Rather were they found living in accessible places, adjoining
laboratories and schools, laboring with the probl erns of medicine, su rg ery,
chemistry, astronomy and similar subjects.
PRACTICAL PRINCIPLES
True, much is said of their alchemy and the experiments with the
lransmutation of the base metals into gold. But these experiments wer e
19
made not for the purpose of securing wealth alone, but to demonstrate,
prove and discover various laws of Nature which have an important bearing
upon every phase of life. Many of the modern sciences today trace vaJuable
aids to the practical work performed by these devoted workers.
SERl7ICE TO MEMBERS
Wherever civilization was in the making and progress in the arts,
sciences, literature and work-a-day activities was most evident, there t he
influence, guidance and contributions of the 'Ros icrucians were most evident.
Today this distinctive feature of practicability is augmented by the co-
op erativc service spirit which is emphasized in an unique mann er. With mem-
bers in every trade, professioh, art and industry, and in every walk of life,
located in every large city and every fa.ir-sized town in the United States,
for example, the close association, the mutual understanding, the universal
pledge to render service at every opportunity, results in a personal benefit
to each member that was not possible in the davs of old. Thus we see that
from many angles the AMORC is a distinctive organization, but the follow-
ing additional fea tu res are important also.
NON-SECTARIAN AND TOLERANT
The AMORC is absolutely non-sectarian in its teachings and practices,
and free from sex and race limitations. It recognizes the universality of the
brotherhood of mankind. It takes cognizance of the íact that we are NOT
all created alike except in soul essence and Divine Consciousness; but this
very exception is the keynote of its broad, tolerant, and sympathetic opera-
tions.
WHY WE ARE NOT EQUAL
Some are born to start their progress through following, while others are
born to develop certain abilities through leadership. Some are born to
begin their car eer through serving, others are born to rnater ializ e the needs.
of many through mastership. Some are born to attain power through tem-
porary labor, others are born to suffer for a' while the responsibility 01'
share the blessings of wealth and leisure. The Rosicrucian Frater nity seeks
to make real leaders of men and women and limits its membership only
to those who are truly worthy of Ieader ship.
Of/ERCOMING OBSTACLES
Whatever may be our station in life, some cause has made it so. "But,"
says the knowing Rosicrucian, "these stations in life are to serve us, to teach
us; no constructive Law and no cruel hand of fate ordains that we shall not
rise above and 'evolve from the station in which we are born, and every law
of nature is at our command to serve us to learn the lesson of our present
situation ar.d turn this into a stepping stone to rise higher. It is our duty
to lift our eyes higher; it is our bounden obligation to help each other on
The Path to hea1th, success, and Mast ers hip."
NO SECT ARIAN CREED
With a universal brotherhood which has its devout students ando workers
also in China, Japan, India, Persia and other Oriental countries; with sin-
cere and enthusiastic men and women in countries of every creed and race,
and with every form of creed 01' religious belief, sectarian teachings would
be impossible. Any system of metaphysical, occult or mystical teaching
based upon sectarian principIes cannot be universal and cannot, therefore,
be Rosicrucian in spirit. .
A firm conviction of the existence of a Supreme Being, Great Architect,
Divine Mind 01' Omnipotent intelligence, is absolutely necessary, however,
on the part of any applicant for membership in the AMORC.
20
RELIlTION TO OTHER ROS/CRUC/IlN BOD/ES
Because of the antiquity of the Frat er nity, and because its name and
symbol has ever typifi·ed the spirit of profound research and arcane teach-
ings, the word "Rosicrucian" has become synonymous with all that is
learned, profound, and arcane. For this reason the worcl has been freely
used to designate teachings or discourses that are uncommon and inspir ing.
OTHER ORGIlN/ZIlTIONS
There are a few private, small and limited societies or groups of
philosophical students in Europe and Ame rica and perhaps elsewhere which
are simply devoted to arcane research and which use the term "Rosicrucian"
or its equivalent to indicate their high standard of thinking, but such
"societies" or "fellowships" are not related to the international AMORC,
nor do they c1aim to be a part of this Rosicrucian ORDER, nor have they
the full graded course of instruction or syst ern used by AMORC.
All of the authentic organizations throughout the world using the name
or symbol of the ancient Rosicrucians are, however, worthy and inspi ring
movements; nearly all of them are allied in fraternal boncls with AMORC,
such as the Grand Lodge of AMORC of Great Britain and those in Den-
rnark, Holland, Africa, China, India, Gerrnany, Spain, Russia, Switzerland,
and the East Indies; others are branch bodies of the principal Grand Lodges
in many cities and lands.
21
~art jfour
A "NATlONAL LODGE" FOR HOME STUDY MEMBERS
The N orth American Jurisdiction of the Frater nity offers some special
features to seekers not found in all the foreign Jurisdictions.
As will be understood from the statements on preceding pages, the
work of the organization in various parts of the country is carried on in
Lodges under the supervision of Grand Lodges. In such Lodges the
accepted members were admitted into the Order by an elaborate Initiation
Cererno ny, generally referred to as "Crossing the Threshold." This cere-
moriy, Egyptian in form and with Eg ypt ian costumes in Egyptian Temples
of the Order, has been called the most beautiful of all cer ernonies coming
down to us from antiquity in its pristine nature. It is never forgotten by
any who pass through it. After such Initiation the members of a Lodge
meet once a week in the Temple and receive the hi~er weekly discourses
from the Master oí the Temple who carries them through a completely
graded course of instruction week after week. Such lecture-sessions are in
tiled Lodges and members are admitted only upon presenting t he proper
pass words and grips. Such Lodges are located in the principal cities of
North America.
A NEW PLAN FOR AMERICA
At one of the national conventions oí the Order held in this country
the Grand Master of New York presented a plan to the delegates for the
establishment of a "National Lodge" which would invite members from any
section of the N orth American Jurisdiction who could not find it possible
to attend the sessions of a local Lodge.
The proposal was discussed and voted upon and finally adopted. It
permitted the Supreme Lodge of the Order for North America to establish
what might be called an extension course of personal, private instruction in
the teachings of the Fraternity upon a distinctly unique basis. The plan
required several y ears to evolve and today this plan is being adopted in
many foreign jurisdictions.
PRlf/ATE CORRESPONDENCE INSTRUCTION NOT IN PRINTED FORM
This plan of prívate instruction at home is so unique and so new to
this country that it must be explained so that it will not be compared with
the so-called "correspondence courscs" issued by correspondence schools in
America, or to the issuance of pamphlet lessons by occult schools.
First of all it was recognized at once that such lessons as wer e to be
sent to nation-wide students COULD NOT BE IN PRINTED FORM,
for two excellent reasons: first, the time-honored injunction against any of
the lessons of the Order in any land being pr int ed or issued in printed form;
secondly, the continued changes, improvements, amendments and modern
adaptions of the teachings, would prevent their preparation in text-book or
printed form of any permanent nature.
It is common for a correspondence school to send its students a set of
text-books accompanied by monthly printed reading lessons analyzing the
various chapters of the text-books. Y.ear after year the same instructions,
the same books and pamphlets, are sent to the thousands of students. This
is possible in presentirig such subjects as Law, English, Mathematics, His-
t ory, 01' some of the sciences. It would not do, could not do, in presenting
the teachin gs of the Rosicrucians; for such teachings are continually im-
proving in subject mat ter, application to hurnan affairs, and relation to recent
discoveries by the Masters of the 0rder.
22
TIOW THE LESSONS ARE PREPARED
So the first prin ciple insisted upon by the Imperator of the arder was
that the lessons to be sent to the hornc study members must be specially
made and prepared from month to month to keep them up to the minute
with the findings, discoveries and elaborate experiments on the part of the
highest workers in the arder in this country and in other lands. That meant
tremendous work, great cost and a staff of master teachers continually
working upon t he lessons.
It must be kept in mind that the Rosicrucian teachings have for ages
been in advance of general science as taught in other scho ols and colleges.
Discover ies announced from time to time by scientists outside of t he arder
and given to the world as startling discoveries, have been known to and
taught by the Rosicrucians for years. But the world moves, ancl if t hc
Rosicrucian ·experts in all fielcls of knowledge and inves ti gat ion did not
keep continually at their work, t he general knowleclge of the world would
soon catch up to the teachings of the Rosicrucians and thc one big power
of the arder would soon weaken.
It is becaus·e the arder is able to keep its members educated in advance
of the public mind, and give its members knowledge which outsiders cannot
obtain, that it enables its Brothers and Sisters to overcome obstacles, meet
oncoming conditions and prepare for future circumstances. The scientific
world outside of the arder is just now trying to discover and evolve certain
principIes regarding health, disease and the prolonging of life which
Rosicrucians have known and practicecl tor centuri·es. The same can be saicl
regarding new "discoveries" in the sciences, arts and professions.
HOW THE LESSONS ARE ISSUED
Therefore the Imperator appointed a staff to prepare and issue the
private lessons for those members who would be aclmitted in t he "N ational
Lodge."
Such members were to be 1 VITED to join by sending them, upon
recommendation, an application blank. After the answers in this form were
examined and an investigation made of the applicant's worthiness and
sincerity, he or she was to be notified to prepare for the preliminary
demonstrations of some fundamental lessons. A plan was finally adopted,
basecl upon an old Egyptian system used by the early Rosicrucians, whereby
such members arrangecl to set aside one part of some room-usually a
sleeping ¡·oom or "den" as their "study cor ne r" or private "Lodge cor ner."
By the use of private instructions in typewritten, personal form, the mernber
prepared himself or herself at home Ior the fir st surprising lesso ns. Th c
many thousands in America today who hav e used these instructions-men and
women of all walks of life from t.he highest positions in the country to
humble workers in the home-have found this home initiation one of the
most astounding evidences of the arcane knowledge possessed by the arder.
Thousands of letters on file pr ov e that this initiation is pr·ecisely what each
applicant seeks and what the Rosicrucians always taught was possible.
When a report of this initiation is scnt to headquarters, it is examined
and the member-s requirements given car eful attention. From then on he
receives each week, in sealed and protected errvelopcs, a special les son of
the Rosicrucian teachings in typewritten formo
NATURE OF THE LESSONS
Such lessons are not mere speculative statements or points of philosophy,
but carefully written and edited explanations of laws, beginning with the
fundamental and simple ones, worded in language which any can understand,
and illustrated by analogies, exarnples, common refer ences and everyday
experiences. Then several experiments are given to be practiced at co nve n-
ient times throughout the week. In this way, week after week, month after
month, special lessons, always being revis·ed and amended, are sent to each
member covering the whole system of private Rosicrucian teachings, devel-
oping faculties and powers the members never realized he or she possessed.
23
STUDENT'S PROGRESS GIl/EN PERSONAL ATTENTION
Soon after passing through the prclimi nar y and foundation lessons
which enable the member to perform many remarkable demonstrations in
his daily affairs, his standing is passed upon by several special instructors
in consultation with the Master who has been directing his studies. If the
member has made the pr oper progress he is assigned to a special high
teacher for personal guidance thereafter.
From that time onward the lessons sent to the member each week have
a personal touch. The member not o nly receives special personal letters
írorn his teacher, but the correspondence between them on points of special
knowledge, pr obl erns in life and helps required by the member in the affairs
of his life, cons titute a personal help equalled only by membership in a
Lodge where the m ernber meets his Master weekly.
Letters and telegrams come daily to headquart crs from students to
their teachers here asking for immediate and special help in illness, business
problems, help for others, and guidance in times of perplexity. Such personal
help sent at once is one of the remarkab le points of service rendered by the
Order to its mern bers, and without any fees for such srevice.
In this way the "National Lodge" permits men and women in all walks
of life, and with just ordinary school education, to have the full advantage
of Rosicrucian membership regardless of where they live.
YOUR HOME A PRII/ ATE LODGE
Through the help that the AMORC offers men and women who are
invited to join its ranks, the privacy of one's home may be utilized to bring
into· dominant usefulness the mental, physical and psychic powers of mano
With simple Iessons which begin at the fundarnentals, all that is strange
and potent in man, al! that is mighty and helpful around man, and all that
is majestic and creative in the universe, is made plain and practical for the
man or woman who would advance from the state of mere living to
PRACTICAL MASTERSHIP.
The reading of books-no matter how learned or suggestive or enticing
may be their titles-will not bring illumination, the understanding of nature's
secret laws and pr inciples. Books were never written to reveal these things.
What is most earnestly sought and truly needed will not be found in books
made and sold for profit, for money and selfish gain. The greatest truths,
the vital truths, the practical, helpful truths, have never found their way
into the public print of popular books, except in the case of the Scriptures
and sacred writings. This was true in the days when the mystics, the phi los-
ophers and the religious devotees spent their lives compiling hand-written
and illustrated manuscript on parchment, when secrets were carved on stone
and arcane laws were engraved on the papyri of Egypt. From hand to hand,
from mouth to mouth, from paper to paper, through the s·ecret channels of a
brotherhood, the gr eat truths of al! ages, the laws and principIes discovered
yesterday and today wil! pass from those who know to those who deserve to
know; while t he masses, caring little, seeking indifferently, unwilling to sac-
rifice time or pleasure, live on and on in the lowly state of darkness and
superstition, happy in their folly perhaps, but enjoying none oí the real
pleasures of life, receiving none of its true gifts, and constantly subj ect to the
evil that lies waiting to prey upon them with ill-h ealt h, di seas e, misfortune,
poverty, oppresson and ignominy.
ATTAINING HEALTH, PROSPERITY, HAPPlNESS
These three elements are God's privileges to man-as a gift. But man
knows not how to accept that which is offered. God and nature provide for
man being well born-when the parents live as nature seeks to instruct-
and from the moment of birth HEALTH, not disease, is man's most natural
endowment from al! the forces and elements of the univer se,
24
PROSPERITY, too, is a natural acqursrtro n, conforming to all the
ethical, spiritual and beneficient laws of the universe. God made man in His
own image, with the same faculties for perception, retention and reconstruc-
tion which vitalize the creative powers ot the universe. All nature prospers
and enjoys the abundance of all that exists, because nature is in harmony
with the creative principle. Man alone, the highest creation of all, falls short
of his rightful and privileged possessions because he does not always know
how to live in harmony with all that creates, rnasters, controls, attracts and
retains.
Prosper ity is the result of attraction, poverty is the perfect manifestation
of repulsion and negation. N ot only is it true that man is as he thinks, but
he enjoys and possesses that which he attracts. Laboring to earn that
which one desires is not the only application of the law of dernand, corn-
ma nd, and supply; it is merely substituting man's crude method of exchang-
ing labor for life's essentials. To deserve, either through labor, worthiness,
sincerity of purpose, goodness of motive or altruism of intention, is but
the first step. The next step is to attract to one's self that which is de-
sired, and such attraction on the part of man is only possible when the
inner self is permitted to function, to manifest and direct the forces of the
outer self.
Just as the flower bends its bo dy toward the sun, that it may more
efficiently attract the sunlight, just as the multi-color ed pansy lifts its head
from th e leaves of green to attract he admiration and attention of the
passerby, so must the inner man, the mind within the soul, th e heart within
the selí, lift itself above and beyond the common-place of lfe and attract,
demand, and draw unto itself the abundance of this life, the riches of cxist-
ence and the wealth of the univer se.
Prosperity in material things is happiness, health, pow er to dir cct, power
to control, power to will and become; assuring success of ve ntur e, atta in-
ment of arnbitions, and the blotting out of all unhappiness, ill-health and
misfortune. This prosperity is rnan's rightful, divine privilege, and naught but
rnan's ignorance of laws and pr inciples and misguided belief in the falsities
of limiting creeds and dogmas keep him from being PROSPEROUS in
ever y sense of the word.
THE ROSICRUCIAN WAY
Know the laws and principies! Study nature's secret teachings! Master
íate's decrees which operat e only with the unprepared, the undeveloped and
the unknowing. Attune yourself with those who are successful and happy.
Co-operate with nature's laws and revel in the power that comes into your
being with the dawn of each day and abides like an unseen guest in your
home, your office, your places of pleasure and meditation!
The successful rnan dominates the situations as they arise, directs with
dynamic mind the course of his life in horne, business and social affairs
through knowing the laws that make possible a release of his inner powers
and metaphysical abilities.
The brilliant woman is the woman who knows her possibilities, her
dormant faculties and magnetic, mental strength, and uses every personal,
subconscious, potent factor of her existence to raise herself to the supreme
mastership of worldly matters.
KNOWING HOW means study and comprchension-and comprehension
accompanied with meditation brings illumination and the power to use the
laws thus studied.
Sitting in orie's hom e, carefully examining the simple, PRIV ATE lessons
and testing the simple laws, one by one, is the process offered by the
AMORC to those who seek this unusual method-more efficient than the
reading of books which dare not tell the real íacts, which never contain
natur e's secret laws and which are sold fOI any pr ice you are willing to pay.
With lessons graded for each mastership, arranged in weekly subjects
and experiences, made practical with pri ncipl es and laws to use every day
and in every way-this is the system the AMORC uses to help those who
would make their home a sanctum of attunement, a home of private instruc-
tion, a place of uplift, development and mastership.
25
THE TRUTH UNVEILED TO THE MEMBERS
Without avoiding the facts that should be revealed, without veiling the
truths so that none can comprehend, and without Ilowery words or elegant
oratory which leave the student unacquainted with the fundamentals, the
private, typewritten, specially prepared lessons of the AMORC are given to
its members, its students, in a manner beyond description or realization
unless one has lived wth them for a few weeks and found the great changes,
the wonderful powers that manifest in every affair of our earthly activities.
Remember, AMORC offers its care íully selected members not only the
method and the plan of developing privately and 'effectively, but it offer s
its m embcrs all the advantages of association with those master minds
of the laws of nature, who have held the reputation of being the most highly
trained teachers, philosophers, scientists and workers in the uplift of the
race of man-the Members of the Order Rosae Crucis-the Brethren of the
Rosey Cross.
HOW THE INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN
The teachings, lessons and experiments constituting the Personal Home
Instruction of the AMORC have been evolved through years of test and
experience, improvements, additions, mo difications and extensions.
NO COLLEGE EDUCATION NECESSARY
These interesting lessons begin with the very fundamental s of nature's
laws as they relate to man and the univcrse, and explain and make plain all
man's seeret powers, possibilities and potential activities. The lesso ns are
carefully graded. N o college, academic or ev en high school education is
necessary to understand the lessons, for they have been prepared by some
of the best educators in various lands for the purpose of meeting the
general mind.
NO MEMORIZING REQU/RED
Various educational boards have said t hat the system employed by
AMORC in teaching and instructing is the ideal system, for it does not
require memorizing, and through the examplcs, illustrations and experiments
used the student comprehends and remembers without the least eftor t, Mere
concentntion upon words being read and a few moments' meditation upon
each pr incipl e or law makes them stand out in the mind and consciousness
for all time.
ARRANGED IN EASY STEPS
The lessons are arranged in Grades or Degrees, like unto classes or
grades in a school. Each grade starts with an "initiation" or syrnbo lical
ceremony to be performed in the home by the member, alone, without any
difficulty. These "Lnitiatio n Ceremonies" are for the purpose of illustrating
and dramatizing some of the laws to be revealed in the lectures of that
Grade. Such ceremonies conform to the beautiful ceremonies held in our
Temples and are based upo n the rituals used in the olden days to teach
and illustrate certain principies. After thc ceremonial night th er e follows a
series of weekly lectures and experiments, constituting a course of study for
that grade. The ceremonies can be performed very quietly and pr ivat ely.
At the close of each series of the first three grades of lectures there is
a self-examination and a written exanu natio n with answers to be sent to
the Master of your class so that he can see wherein you have succeeded or
failed to grasp a clear understanding of each point and may send you addi-
tional information. These examinations are easily passed if the lectures have
been properly read-not laboriously studied.
The first three Grades constitute the fundamental ones in which the
foundation for the whole work of the Order is laid, and give the member
the basis for starting a new and greater car eer in life.
26
THE JIlClIER TEACHINCS
Upo n cntra nce into the Fourth Grade, the mernber reccivcs his "car d"
or advanced, general mernbership in the Order and then he starts with the
higher teachings and the furt hcr application of them in the Mastership of
the greatest problems in life, reaching toward success, health, happiness and
the goal of his ambitions.
There are three fundamental (and vcry important) Grades, co nsisti nr- of
t hirty-six to forty weekly lectures, weekly exper ime nts, daily tests and
improvements, with much additional reading matter in the monthly bulletin
(or magazine) called "The Mystic Tr ian gle,' and other matter. Then begin
the higher grades, -each having from twenty to fifty weekly lectures and
special instructions.
MASTERY AT EACH STEP
There never was and never will be a more systematic, a more detailed
and complete course of personal-dcve loprnent study than this. While it is
true that it generally takes a few years to complete the whole course of
three fundamental and the many succeedin g higher grades, the student
becomes a master of certain laws and principles each week and before the
first few months have passed he no loriger desir es to hurry anel go on more
rapidly than the system provieles. It is not like a course of study which
rnust be entirely finisheel before it may be put into practical operation.
Most of our members eliscover the true value and efficiency of' the work
after the first month of reading anel experiment, anel de-rve help from the
very first lessons.
SIMPLTCITY, SYSTEM, PRJPACY
The graded lessons are maileel in sealeel envelopes complete with every
aid, plan, suggestion or illustration necessary. Lessons are maileel each week
with a system and regularity that is plcasi ng and depenelable. Others neeel
not know what you are studying or what you are associated with unless you
desir e to interest them.
A LODCE N/CHT AT HOME
Membcrs are asked to reserve a part of one night of the week to be their
"Lodge night" at home. Whether it be every Wedneselay night, every
Thursday night or every Friday night, thousa nds of other members in your
own counlry will be studyin g, practicing and experimenting in attunement
with you. We prefer that each member select an early or lat·c part of
Thursday evening for his or her Lodge night at home; for this is the Rosi-
crucian Night throughout the worlel and it means greater power through
the multitudes who are thusly attuned. But any other evening will do in
case you find it necessary on certain occasions to change your selected
weekly Lodge night at home or in the privacy of a room elsewher e.
WHAT MEMBERSHIP WILL MEAN TO YOU
Through membership in the AMORC the seeker for this specialized
knowledge not only finds that wonderful illumination anel unelerstanding of
Nature's laws which he cr she has sought in vain elsewhere, but there are
many other aelvantages.
Each member holds a carel of membership anel possesses a "Passworel"
and certain key wor ds which will always guide, direct anel encourage in
the hour of need and doubt.
Those who enter the ranks of AMORC will find themselves in touch
with thousands of other members at times and urider conditions which
cannot be explained in this book. Each will come to realize, understand and
feel the strange psychic attunement with the Masters which has always
27
united Rosicrucians and which passeth understanding of the uninitiated.
, Each member has the additiortal privilege of visiting any b ra nch Lodge,
of meeting all regular Lodge Brothers and Sisters on an equal basis of
idealism arid of enjoying all the exo teric benefits of this Order.
But undoubtedly the gr eatest benefit of all is that of sitting for a
short period one night a week in silence at home, following our simple
instructions, and, by the Rosicrucian simple process of attunement, becoming
psychically and cosmically attuned with all the members in the Order who
are in silent meditation and co n ce nt rat io n at the time for fifteen minutes
or more,
Likewise during this period of weekly study and attunement mos t of the
regular R C. Lodges of our Order are holding Temple Convocations, ancl
these added to the correspondence mcrnber ship, make thousands of minds
united in love, power, sacredness, health, prosperity ancl Peace Pro íound.
It is during such weekly hours of meditation (according to the personal
instructions) that the trials and tr oubles of life are softenecl, health regained,
success attained, prosperity and happiness attracted, with the heart's clesires
fulfilled in proportion to the sincerity of desire and the worthincss of the
purpose.
These hours of meditation-what Peace Profound! Unknown to others,
unsuspected by even advanced students outside of our Order, yet yours most
surely if you desire them and place yourself in contact with the Rosicrucians.
WHO MAY UN/TE W/TH AMORC BY /NVITATION
The Portals of AMORC are open to any man or woman over eighteen
years of age (or a few years younger by special clispensation) of any race
or any religious belief, being free from allegiance to any semi-political
despot or any organization which limits the freedom of man's mind and
inner development. Those who know that there is aDivine Mind ruling the
universe, who are clean in thinking and living, having never been guilty of
treason in any country, nor engaged in any unlawful occupation ancl anxious
to become citizens of the Invincible Empire of advanced workers and
successful beings in this world are eligible to full membership in the
AMORC by invitation.
WHO MAY NOT UN/TE W/TH AMORC
The Portals of AMORC are closed to infidels, atheists, agnostics, fanatics
of. any kind, clrones, political conspirators, objectors to law and order, bigots,
the insincere, the frivolous, doubters, idle investigators, "spiritualistic
mcdiurns" (unless they abandon such practices ), promoters or endorsers of
questionable sex theories under the guise of "oriental" instruction, "con-
scientious" (?) objectors to defending their country or flag in times of
emergency or Government call, those seeking to buy power or influence
with money, or those whose moral code is weak or negligible. All these,
or any of them, cannot unite with the AMORC regardless of recommencla-
tions or inducements of any kind.
WHAT THE AMORC DOES NOT DEMAND
The AMORC is not a bo dy of fanatics or extremists of any kincl or
class. It has in its ranks rnen and women of every school of the rapeut ics, for
instance, including professors and international authorities in all the subjects
of meclicines, chernistry, botany, physiology, physics, and allied sciences.
It has members in every art, profession, trade, business, hobby and avocation.
No demand is made upon its members that they adopt any change in
rel igion, business or social matters, except those which each member finds
are best for his or her individual advancement.
28
l)art jfíbt
How You May Become a Member
READ FERY CdREFULLY
Only proper ly admitted members oí the AMORC may receive t hc
complete instructions, cour ses, Iessons, lectur es, guides, helps and service of
th e organization. The Rosicrucians do not permit their knowledge to be
published in books, NEVER SELL OR LOAN THEIR LESSONS OR
LECTURES or otherwist permit the knowledge to come into the hands
of the unworthy or those who might try lo use the powers and abilities fOI"
evil 01" selfish ends to the harrn of others.
Members of the Order do not pay for any of the lessons. These are
given to them freely as a part of their membership along with all the many
benefits shared by all members in all lands.
'1'0 make plain exactly what membership in the Order includes, we will
outline the following benefits:
First, upon examination of the application blank and the acceptance inlo
membership of any applicant, he or she is notified of this fact by a special
letter by the Suprerne Secretary. This is followed by a special set of pr e-
liminary instructions which explain all the SIMPLE rules and regulations to
be followed in mastering each step of the wonderful lessons.
Secondly, the member then receives the Secret Document umber One,
in which he is told how to conduct a simple but most illuminating ceremony
in the quiet of some room at home on a night selected for the purpose.
This ceremony reveals in one hour more startling facts of t he laws of nature
than could be placed in several printed books, and the mernber learns at
once the true relation he has with the real Masters of the Rosicrucian Order.
This eeremony has been performed by a hundred thousand pe rs ons in
America and other lands and all pronounce it the most wonderful peace and
strength-giving ceremony as well as the most important revelation of
natur e's laws they have ever experienced.
T'hir dly, after a brief report of this cer crnoriy, the member is considered
a duly prepared student of the secret laws and principies, and as such
possesses a Membership identification Card, number and Pass Word.
Fourt hly, from that moment he receives weekly the specially prepared
secret instructions, lectures, and lessons, with daily and weekly experiments
and exercises which enable hirn to master each step easily and properly.
The lecture and lesson each week require a part of one evening of the week
for study or reading (there being nothing to mernor iz'e-e-ever yt hing remains
in the mind through the unique method used by the Rosicrucians to teach
its Iaws ), and the exercises and experiments require only a few minutes each
night, morning or noontime, at the member's convenience. These exercises
and experiments develop certain faculties from the very first lessons.
Fifthly, the lessons relate to life's immediate problems as well as the
future needs of the member. They help rhe members to master the obstacles
and overcorne conditions from the very start. N o vague theories, no specu-
lations about conditions in the "ethereal realrns" that have no bearing upon
our present life, but laws and principies that men and women must use
here and now in very practical ways.
Sixth, the monthly private magazine called the Mystic Triangle is sent to
each member each month without additional fee. It contains the monthly
calendar of days and periods most successful for the accomplishment of
certain affairs, special instructions and lessons on general life problerns, and
the questions and answers relating to new principies as well as reports from
other members and articles by leading persons in the country on what the
Rosicrucian Order is doing for them.
29
Seve nth, each member is entitled to the many departmental services of
the Order, which inc1udes help by correspondence and through our own
psychic methods, as well as additional information by mail on points in the
Iectur es, aids in hea1th or related matters, without any additional fees.
Eighth, the privilege of meeting with other members in the same locality
as soon as a certain stage of the work is reached where the members can
come together once a week in our own Temple in various cities, or in
special meeting places for mutual discussion and help.
The graded, systematic lessons, lectures and experiments continue week
after week with special helps to make each member proficient, until the
member completes the first grade. Then the member starts on the Second
Grade, and finally on the Third. At the end of the Third Grade the mernber
has the privilege of deciding what Iur thci steps he wishes to take to at tam
the higher teachings.
From this point onward the member may proceed with the higher
lessons grade after grade through all the grades of the Work. Thus the
course of study is as complete as any offered by the largest univer sit ics so
far as length of time and devotion to development are. con cerned.
Fees and Dues
The Order is strictly a brotherhood, operating as do all ot.her fr ater-
nities in the world. Membership in the Rosicrucian Order carries with it
the many benefits distinct to all fraternities and many others quite uniqu e.
Like unto all fraternities there are mcmbership dues, payable monthly.
And, t here is a nominal initiation fee or "registration fee". This fee and
the monthly dues of a small amount are the contributions on the part of
mernbers to the general operating funds of the Order, and take care of its
propaganda expenses, its building funds, national and international humani-
tarian activities and its donations to many scientific expeditions and methods
of research and investigation. Such ícc and dues have nothing to do with
the College and School work of the Order.
In addition to the general activities of the Order, the Rosicrucians
conduct the College and School courses as outlined on previous pages.
These courses of study are given free1y and without chargc or fees of any
kind to members of the Order. N ot all membcrs who are active in the Order
in America are taking up the courses of study; not all of our students are
mernbers of the Orrler in America, for some are members of foreign juris-
dictions and pay their dues to foreign lands, but receive their teachings from
our branch without fees of any kind. Therefore we wish to have you keep
in mind that the study and instruction work is a sepárate and distinct
feature of the Order, not found in any other fraternal organization, and for
which our members do not pay.
The Supreme Council has purposely made the first "Registration Fee"
very nominal. It is Five Dollars, payable with the application. The monthly
dues are Two Dollars, payable on the first of each month. These fees inc1ude
all the beriefits of the Order's fraternai activities. There are no other fees
or assessments, no books which must be purchased in order to study, no
catalog solicitations, and no limitations to the degree of advancement the
Members may make in their studies. Th e monthly magazine, "The Mystic
Triangle", is also given free to all members who are taking the courses of
study by correspondence from the Supreme Lodge.
T he monthly dues are to be paid by members only so long as tluy desire to
retain active membership in the Order.
30
FINAL INSTRUCTIONS-f/ERY IMPORTANT
There are several ways in which this book may have come into your
hands. The book is intended to be a private one, carefully and discreetly
distributed to only those who seem to be worthy of admission into the Order.
It may have been handed to you by someone who wishes you to realize
that there is something in life that may answer your desires and end your
quest. It may have been passed along to you by a friend or acquaintance
who Ieels that it will arouse an inquiry in your mind. Therefore there may
be no Application Blank or letter of invitation with the book, and in that
case if you feel interested you should write at once to the Supreme Secretary
and ask for an application formo If your inquiry appears to be sincere thc
Secretary will invite you to file an applicatioin with him.
On the other hand you may have written to headquarters for this book
and it may come to you by mail, or otherwise, accompanied by a letter and
an Application Blank. In such a case the letter will invite you to become a
member. It is a direct invitation issued aft er your request has been properly
considered.
Also, some member of the fraternity may hand you this book and an
Application Blank and invite you to join with the Order.
HOW TO PROCEED
First: Fill out the Application Blank very carefully when you are ready
to file your Application. Bear in mind that YOU ARE BEING INVITED
and not solicited in the ordinary way as with schools or some other move-
ments. You will NOT be urged from time to time with letters or circular
matter. The fraternity does not resort to such methods to increase its
membership. The INVITATION from headquar ters comes to you BUT
ONCE and a record of that fact is kept upon car ds at headquarters. Some
member may urge you in a friendly way, but if you do not answer the
official invitation you simply shut the door and cancel the invitation. We say
this in the most kindly spirit. .
Therefore, DO NOT LAY THIS INVITATION ASIDE without writing
a letter to the Supreme Secretary and telling him just what you expect to
do. The safest way is to send your Application Blank at once and make sure
of your membership before the privilege is automatically withdrawn,
Second: Having answered all the questions in the Application B1ank,
sign it properly and endose with it the Registration Fee of Five Dollars.
If for any reason you cannot endose the Registration Fee at once, be sure
to send the Application Blank and state why you do not endose the Fee.
Your application in such a case will be passed upon and you will be notified
of your admission or rejection. The pre-payment of the Fee WILL SAVE
YOU MUCH TIME in starting with th e work.
Third: Mail your Application Blank and Registration Fee promptly to
the Supreme Secretary. Register your letter if it contains cash and if you
send check or money order make it payable to AMORC FUNDS.
Acknowledgement should reachyou within ten days or less. If you do
not hear fr orn the Secretary in that time, write hirn in detail. If your
application is rejected for any reason whatsoever your Registration Fee
will be returned to you with a frank explanation.
ADDRESS ALL MAIL TO
AMORC
ROSICRUCIAN PARK, SAN ]OSE, CALIFORNIA
Long Di.tance Telephones: BALLARD 8295, 8296
International Cable Address: "AMORCO" Radio Station 6KZ
31
AMORC DIRECTORY
The following national and international branches of the Rosi-
crucian Order throughout the world are affiliated with the Interna-
tional Fraternity known from antiquity as ANTIQUUM ARCA UM
ORDINEM ROSAE RUBEAE ET AUREAE CRl CIS. The organ-
ization is not affiliated or connected in any way with any other
society or with any cult or movement.
THE NORTH AMERICAN ]URISDICTION
(Including the United States, Dominion of Cariada, Alaska, México,
Guatamala, Honduras, " icaragua, Costa Rica, Republic of Panama,
the West Indies, Lower California and all land under the protection
of the United States of America.)
Dr. H. Spencer Lewis, F. R. c. .
.................... Dean of the University and Imperator of the Order
Ralph M. Lewis, K. R. c. Supreme Grand Secretary
Divisional Secretaries with Grand Lodges of the Order are
located in: N ew York City; Boston, Massachusetts; Waterbury,
Connecticut; Pittsburgh, Pa.; Tampa, Florida; San Antonio, Texas;
Chicago, Illinois; San Francisco, Calif.; Los Angeles, Calif.; Van-
couver, Canada; Montreal, Canada; Sto Louis, Mo.; and Washington,
D. C.
Spanish-American Section, conducting the work of the Order in
English and Spanish, includes the Latin-American countries of North
and South America, with headquarters in Puerto Rico, and Grand
Lodges in Mexico and other countries.
Chartered Branches exist in nearly every large city of the
United States.
FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
Grand Lodges and their branches are in active operation in all
civilized lands, the most important Grand Lodges being located in
England, Denmark, Holland, France, Germany, Austria, Russia,
China, Japan, East Indies, Australia, Switzerland and India.
The College of the Order in the Orient is located in Madras
Presidency, South India.
Public Lectures and Free Reading Rooms
are to be found in many of the larger cities of the East and West in
the U nited States. Addresses will be given upon application.
To reach the Administration Halls and Supreme Lodge of the
Order in N orth America, address all mail as follows:
AMORC, Rosicrucian Park, San Jose, California
32
Registered U. S. Patent Office
The matter contained in this book is officially issued
througb tbe Supreme Council of AMORC under the protec-
tion of tbe above emblem, as are a11 the sealed, secret and
prívate lectures, lessons, diagrams, dissertations, scientific
postulations, philosophical discourses and academic studies
of tbe Fraternity. Tbe above Syrnbols were duly registered
solely for tbe protection of the work of the Rosicrucian
Order in North América, and the AMORC is tbe only
Rosicrucian organization autborized to use this Registered
impnnt and symbols in tbe United States.
ROSE CROIX ••RESS. SAN J08E
•••••
