{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__buchanan___sketches_of_buchanans_discoveries_in_neurology.pdf","mytitle":"Sketches Of Buchanans Discoveries In Neurology","mylang":"de"}
SKETCHES
OF
BUCHANAN'S DISCOVERIES
IN
,/
NEUROLOGY.
"From the days of Aristotle to the present time, the most powerful intel-
lects have been directed with the most persevering industry to this depart-
ment of science, and system after system has flourished, fallen and been
forgotten in rapid and melancholy succession.''-Combe.
"Europe which at present possesses libraries filled with philosophical
works, and which reckons up almost as many philosophers as writers; poor
in the midst of so much riches and uncertain, with the aid of all its guides,
which road it should follow-Europe, the centre and focus of all the lights
of the world, has yet its philosophy only in expectation."-.M. de Bonald.
1 ~--er. ~ ~
LOUISVILLLE:
J. ELIOT & CO.'S PO;WER P,RESS.
1842.
SKETCHES OF BUC HAN.U~ ' s DISCOV.ERJES
a new path, distinct from former systems of mental cul-
tivation· and the time is not far distant, when PnnExOLo-
GY will 'becom·e the leading system, and the centre,,from
which all investigations into the relation of matter and
mind, vvill take their rise.
The discoveries of Dr. Buchanan, (as far as we can
understand them,) consist in so enlarging the limits of
the science of Phrenology, as to render it applicable to
more extended and beneficial purposes. 1\Iany whom
the testinwny has convinced of the claims of Phrenology
to rank as a science, have been at a loss to discover the
mode in which its truths could be applied to useful ob.
jects, which, in this utilitarian age, is every thing, so far
as its success is concerned. If Dr. B. should succeed in
accomplishing this end, he will render a valuable ser-
vice to the cause of science. As a gentleman of learn-
ing and intelligence, he ranks deservedly high, and from
what we have incidentally learned relative to his success-
ful experiments in this city, illustrative of the matters
stated in his article, he is (strange though it may seem)
capable of producing the singular results which he de-
scribes.
BUCHANAN'S DISCOIVERES IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY.
For some months past I have been engaged, during
the intervals of professional engagements, in an experi-
mental investigation of the functions of the brain, in
which I have been so singularly fortunate, that in the
course of a single month, I have been able to ascertain
more of its true physiology than has heretofore been ac-
quired by all the labors of all the Physiologists and Pa-
thologists who have ever been engaged in observing and
making experiments to ascertain the nature and locality
of its various functions.
IS CEREBRAL PH YSIOLO GY. 5
\Vhile the ink is yet wet, with which I record this
:sentence, I cannot repress the feeling of strangeness
with which I view so comprehensive an assertion, when
placed in writing, although I know it to be but a naked
statement of a portion of the facts, which I have ascer-
tained by the testimony of my own senses, and which
have been witnessed by many others. These facts, and
the experiments in which I have been engaged, have lost
a portion of their novelty and wonder with me by fre-
quent repetition; but to suppose that results of such mag-
nitude have been so speedily and correctly attained, and
that the· promulgation of such discoveries has devolved
upon one whom neither years nor official honors have
placed in so authoritative a position, awakens many pe-
culiar emotions.
Fortunately, it requires neither rank nor title, nor per- .
suasive eloquence, to secure the reception of these truths.
The experiments by which they have been tested can
easily be repeated, and cannot leave a doubt upon the
mind of any, nor do they suggest any thing for debate.
Their reception must be instantaneous.
I am thus prepared to teach the true physiology of
the brain; to correct the errors that have heretofure been
made, and to give the function of its smallest organs
with a precision which it would once have been deemed
chimerical to expect. Yet every proposition which I ad-
vance shall be accompanied, on the spot, by experimen-
tal demonstration, as palpable and satisfactory, even as
those of chemistry.
Yet how, asks the wondering and incredulous meta-
physician, can this possibly be accomplished? How can
the sublime science of mind be degraded, into a mere
subject of physiological experiment, and an hour's obser-
vation become the substitute for heavy folios of reasoning?
6 SKETCIIES OP l:lVCII.\:":\:" ' S Dl!:iCOVKIUES
By the simplest means imaginable. It is in my
power to excite, in a few moments, any portion of the
brain, either large or small; to put that portion into full
and vigorous action as an efficient portion of the character
of the person upon whom I operate, and then, at will,
suspend its action, and excite the action of its antagonist
organ, or of any other organ, or group of organs, that I
choose to bring into play.
The individual subjected to the experiment becomes
conscious of a sudden development of new traits in his
character, by the increased strength of the emotions, pas-
sions, and intellectual faculties which are excited, or in
the sudden diminution of powers which he has been ac-
customed to exercise. This being an actual change, as
efficient as if it had arisen from any other cause, or had
been a congenital condition, he is not only capable of de-
scribing the change which has been produced, but shows
distinctly, in his countenance, manner, and conversation,
the influence under which he is acting. But if the curi-
ous enquirer does not find himself satisfied in merely
witnessing the experiment, or hearing the subject report,
he may easily become the subject himself, and feel his
\"arious faculties modified at the will of the operator. He
may feel that his power of vision is increased or dimin-
ished; that his muscular strength is raised or depressed;
that he hears acutely or feebly, and that either eye, at
the will of the operator, becomes more vigorous than
the other, and either hand morbidly sensitive or strange-
ly benumbed. Matters of this kind are obvious to the
dullest intellect. Yet in exciting the various passions,
they shall be made no less obvious; for they go, at times,
entirely beyond the control of volition. Tears pour from
the eyes, or the fist is clenched in anger.
As all '""ill soon be able to witness for themselves,
IN CF.REBR.U PH\'SlOLOG\' . 7
it is needless to describe the results and task the reader's
faith \vith a story by far too improbable, until the demon-
stration and the rationale have been given. Were I now
to relate all that I have witnessed, I do not believe it pos-
sible any where to find an assembly of men, sufficiently
enlightened. liberal, and philosophical, to give credence
to my statements with entire unanimity. Indeed, but for
the fact that my experiments can be so easily repeated,
the knowledge which they have developed, would, like
that of most new discoveries, exist only for the benefit of
posterity.
Having progressed sufficiently in this matter to be
able to present my theory to the public, accompanied
by illustrative experiments, I ventured, at Little Rock,
to give two public lectures and demonstrations, on which
occasions I called forth gentlemen from the audience, and
after writing on a black board, in view of the audience
alone, the effects that I intended to produce upon them,
in each case, I proceeded publicly to the experiment.
In consequence of the first occasion, the following article
was published in the Arkansas Times and Advocate,
and having been copied into other papers, may possibly
have met your eyes :
"IMPORTANT DrscovERY.-Last Friday, Dr. Buchanan
gave a lecture, explanatory of a new discovery in the
nervous system, by means of which he is able, in some
instances, to control both the minds and bodies of his pa-
tients. The gentlemen and ladies who have been the
subjects of his experiments, declare that they feel the cur-
rent of their thoughts and feelings changing, from time
to time1
without the power to prevent it. At one time
they think of the past, at another time of the future. Their
ideas are sometimes clear, and sometimes confused, be-
yond the power of collecting themselves. At one time
8 SKETCHES OF llUCJI ,\.~ AN ~S DISCOVERIES
they are lulled into gentleness and good humor, at an-
other they are transported beyond all self-control, by feel-
ings of a desperate and pugnacious character.
"'Ve have witnessed but few of the experiments our-
selves, and consequently are rather skeptical as to the
reality of the feelings produced.
"At the public lecture three gentlemen were experi-
mented upon. The first attempt was to produce drowsi-
ness and sleep. In a short time the drowsiness became
apparent. The eyelids of the gentleman fell, and his
head reclined. His hands became cold, clammy and
benumbed. They were agitated by convulsive trem-
blings, of which he seemed to be unconscious, and he
was unable to keep them still. The effect produced be-
ing considered rather too powerful, Dr. B., in a few mo-
ments, reYived him, without going so far as to produce
~leep.
"The principal experiment upon the second gentleman
was, to cause the thoughts to wander, and excite memo-
ry, or remn11scences. In this, the Doctor succeeded re-
markably well. At first, the gentleman remarked, that
his thoughts were scattering and confused ; then, that
they were upon his past life; and finally, that he could
think of nothing but his childish sports, and the days of
his infancy.
"The experiment upon the third gentleman was, to
excite his passions, and produce impatience, anger, and
resentment. In this, also, the Doctor was successful;
for in a few moments his feet and legs began to work in
a violent manner, and he remarked that he would like
to stamp something. In a moment more he sprang to
his feet, with a stern and determined expression of
countenance, but shortly recovered his self-possession."
Surprising though these results may be, they have been
IN CEREBR.\L PHYSIOLOGY. 9
attained by means so simple, so rational, and so obvious
that, while we lose our wonder at the discoveries, we
wonder still more that they should have remained so long
unknown. Had some fortunate accident given th~ right
direction to Dr. Gall's labors, the science which seemed
to require a century to mature it, might have burst upon
the world at once, in full orbed splendor.
The idea which led to these developments, though
long impressed upon my mind, like many other plans to
which I hoped a consummation, has but lately been car-
ried into effect. Three years since, I had made impor~
tant progress in craniological science, and traced · the
outlines of (t the Pathognomic System of Phrenology;"*
but discovering that, by the plan I was pursuing, a life-
time would scarcely be sufficient to re-organize the ~ci­
ence, and to test every proposition, I determined, if possi-
ble, to find some shorter road to the arcana of Cer.ebral
Physiology. The labor of theorizing, observatio1L in,
duction, and philosophical combination, might form ;
system, indeed, of tolerable accu~acy; but the lifetime
expended in such labors, I foresaw, would be poorly re-
warded, as the moral and intellectual organs in ninety-
nine-hundreths of the human race, are too feeble to per-
ceive, or to appreciate, the truth of any new discovery.
The principles thus discovered, would have to updergo
the tedious ordeal of criticism and experiment, by in-
competent as well as competent men, before they could
receive the proper credit. I could not consent to spend
a life in the labor of untying a Gordian knot for the ben-
efit of posterity, but deter~ined to find the sword with
which I could cleave it open at once, and bring the most
recondite truths palpably before the public eye.
•I had printed a prospectus and ohtained subscribers to this work, to be
issued in five volumes, embracing the whole of the sciences of Phrenolog}
J
and Pathogrto111.!1·
JQ SKETCHES OF 13UCHANAN' s DISCOVERIES
In plainer terms, I determined to ascertain the func-
tions of the brain in some simple and direct manner,
which would place our knowledge of its functions upon
a par with the other portions of experimental physiology.
To do this, I determined to excite the different portions
of the brain by a galvanic or galvanoid fluid, and calling
them separately into action, to watch the resultant phe-
nomena; or, by exciting them in myself, to enjoy at once,
a perfect consciousness of the nature of each faculty and
its organ. In this attempt, I have met with even a more
glorious success than I had ever anticipated.*
I have discovered the means of exCiting, at will, any
portion of the brain-any organ, or any number of or-
gans, and of retarding or suspending their action. Even
the small perceptive convolutions, on the super-orbitar
plate, have proved to be completely under my control;
and I have many times excited the organ of Form or
Calculation, Color or Order, without allowing the excite-
ment to extend beyond the organ which I wished to call
into play. In the most susceptible subjects, I find that I
have been able to assume the entire control of their
character, and operate upon their minds or bodies in the
most fantastic manner that caprice could suggest.
Exciting single organs, I urge their excitement to a
pitch which might well be termed monomania-a state
of excitement entirely beyond the control of the subject,
because it is a part of his existing character. Thus I
make my subjects alternately laugh and weep; reason pro-
foundly of moral truths, and then, without any reason,
draw the fist to strike; express the deepest humility, or
self-sufficiency and levity; sit for hours with the greatest
• I say nothing of my mode of operation at present, as that will be dis-
played hereafter publicl~-and the experiments, unless conducted by per-
!lons ~ho are well acqu~mted with Neurology, may be managed so as to in-
JUre, tnstead of benefitlmg, the health.
lS CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY . 11
patience, or leap up with passionate restlessness; express
the finest moral sentiments, or assume the manners and
feelings of the miser and thief; indulge in eating, and
drink strong liquor, or assume a moral dignity, despise
sensuality and speak of food with loathing; feel the most
exalted moral and religious sentiments, or indulge in
levity with an inclination to be vulgar; concentrate the
thoughts, by an irresistible impulse, upon some objects
before them, or scatter them in utter confusion and
wandering; extend their reminiscence back to their earli-
est days, reviving the memory of almost forgotten cir-
cumstances of infantile life, or recal them to the present,
and reach on to the future, without the power of looking
back to the past; reason, moralize, inquire, or feel an
utter vacuity of intellect, and show an almost idiotic ex-
pression of countenance; rise with a stern, piercing eye,
in the attitude of angry defiance, loll in the most indo-
lent good nature, or sink under an oppressive humility,
with eyes continually downcast; obey with reverence
every request that I may. make, or become impatient,
contradictory, and indignant, without any reason which
did not exist during their humility; display a monomania
of calculation, their whole attention being engrossed in
calculating every thing which can be counted-the num-
ber of their steps, the stripes of the carpet, the keys ~f
the piano, or whatever attracts their attention; and, when
-the influence is changed, suddenly suspend their count-
ing and refuse to proceed, however they may be entreat-
ed. The subject of this experiment, (Mrs. --,) when
excited in the musical organs, would feel an irresistible
impulse to sing, and sing with a brilliance of execution
which she could not display when left to herself.
They break forth in the most ungovernable merri-
ment, or sit in dogged and ill-natured silence; talk with
•
I I
12 ~KETC H ES OP HUCHAI.'U.~ ' s lHS CUVEHIES
surprising velocity, or struggle with almost ineffectual ex·
ertion to command the organs of speech; fall into a pro·
found slumber in the midst' of company,* or brighten in
countenance and look around, deprived of the power of
keeping the eyes closed, as before they were deprived of
the power of keeping them open: but why need I prolong
the catalogue? I
Fancy the human, brain a harp, and every string re-
sponding to the touch, singly or in combination, as we
please, and you have before you a perfect picture of my
experiments-a portion of which I have recorded for
publication .
The question then naturally arises, since the functions
of every organ h~ve been ascertained with this precision,
and Cerebral Physiology has become on a sudden a sci-
ence of demonstrable accuracy, whether the existing
science of Phrenology is overturned or established by
the new discoveries. The experienced and philosophic
practical Phrenologist will easily anticipate the answer.
Knowing the unimpeachable truth of the body of the
science, he knows ·too, that it is still an inaccurate or
imperfect doctrine, when we survey the mass of its de-
tails. He finds himself occasionally liable to practical
errors, for which he is at a loss to account, and of which
he can dispose only, by using the old phrase, so often
sophistically applied, "exceptio probat regulunt."
' As a practical Phrenologist, having\vandered farthe~
from the doctrines of Gall and Spurzheim than any other
zealous cultivator of craniology, I had to some extent
abandoned the use of the established phr'enological
nomenclature. Believing that the doctrines of Phreno-
q put ~he Sheriff of ~ittle Rock to sl~ep in the midst of 'company who
were talkmg away mernly, a.nd threatenmg to rob him of hi-. executi~ns as
soon as he was fast as1eep. '
lN CEREHHAL PHYSIOLOGY . 13
logy would be for some time a matter of debate, and
deeming it rather premature to determine the precise
functions of organs by their names, I used and even
taught my students the anatomical nomenclature, deem-
ing it more convenient that the name should express the
fixed anatomical position of the organ, than that it
should express the unfixed and not very precise doctrine
of their functions. Seeking the truth boldly, regardless /
of all systems, I had become distrustful of the established
doctrine, and while engaged in making additions to it,
was by no means backward in rejecting every thing
which did not stand the t~st of sound reasoning or of
craniological observation.
When I found ihe means of testing all the principles
of Phrenology, by inspiring the organs to speak for thent-
selves, I was of course eager to learn what was their de-
cision upon the doctrines .of Gall and Spurzheim, and
what was to be the fate of my own craniological doc·
trines.
The result has been singularly happy: while the truth
of my own views in every essential point has been well
maintained, it has been done at as little expense as pos-
sible to the existing system. In some instances in which
my doctrine departed materially from the doctrine of
Gall and Spurzheim, decisive experiments have present-
ed a compromise, sustaining as far as practicable the
truth of both ; showing that the principles of each,
though apparently contradictory, were really just and
harmonious, but limited views of the same subject,
\vhich a more extensive survey combines into one pic-
ture. 'li: * * ~ * *
In the greater portion of the science, we are struck
with the justness of their views. Greatly has my admi·
!4 SKETCHES OF HUC H .\.NAN
1
S DIS COVERIES
ration of their genius been enhanced by the accuracy
with which they have ascertained, by imperfect and labo-
rious methods, the precise functions of organs, some of
which are so small, as to make even an estimate of their
size a difficult undertaking.
In some instances, they may have mistaken the loca-
tion, or the exact function; but that they have not fallen
into more gross and essential errors, when exploring a
department of knowledge upon which their predecessors
could not even enter, demonstrates a soundness of judg-
ment, and an accuracy of observation, which belong only
to the gifted men who lead the march of the sciences.
Even in regard to the six small organs, lying upon the
super-orbitar plate, there is but one inaccuracy, and that
of no great moment in a practical point of view.
The most important omission that I have observed in
the system of Gall and Spurzheim, \Vas the failure to
give a definite location in the brain to the organs of the
external senses. To supply this defect, I had given a
location to the senses of sight, hearing, and feeling ;
and had suggested a separation of taste and smell, from
hunger and thirst. Each of these discoveries is now es-
tablished, and the large organ of feeling is subdivided
into the organs of four distinct senses.
At the present stage of my investigations; having
tested the previous system of Phrenology with my own
additions, and having proceeded to the discovery of new
organs and analysis of the old ones, I am able to demon-
strate no less than ninety-one distinct functions, exer-
cised by independent organs in the brain.
I present the following catalogue, as containing the
most definite and well established of those which I
recognise.
IN CEREBRAl. PHYSIOLOGY. 15
Of the senses, external and internal, I have located
the organs of twelve:
1 Sight,
2 Hearing,
3 Touch,
4 Taste,
5 Flavor,
G Smell,
7 Thirst,
8 Hunger,
9 Common Feeling,
10 Thermal ~ense,
11 Electric Sense.*
12 Sense of Force.
Proceeding then with the various organs in their
order of juxtaposition, we enumerate:
[To avoid repetition, we omit the catnlllgue.J
The bearings of these discoveries upon the science of
mind, important as they are, are of far less importance
than their medicinal results. The most important de-
velopments are yet to be stated.
I have been in the habit of teaching the phrenolo-
gical doctrine, that every portion of the brain sustained
a particular relation to the body. by means of which the
circulation and all the phenomena of life are modified
through the cerebral agency; that the paramount influ-
ence of the brain gave to the body its peculiar growth,
form, and temperament; that every portion of the body
had a specific relation to some part of the brain, upon
which it was dependent for innervation, and with which
it sympathized in health, disease, and excitement. I
had made some progress in tracing out the laws of this
innervation, and establishing the relation that existed
between each portion of the body and each portion of
the brain-thus · ascertaining to what classes of disease
particular forms of the brain made us liable, or with
what portion of the brain and what kind of cerebral ex-
•Under the excitement of the Electric Sense, the human hand becomes
a most delicate galvanometer. Under its highest excitement, lhe fingers
rP.pPI each other, and stand !lpart. unable to endme contact.
1() SKET CHES OF BUCHANAN 's DISCOVERIES
citement each disease was connected-in other words ,
making a phrenological classification of disease, and of
all the phenomena of life.
Having done this, it became my duty when I found.
the brain under my control, to proceed directly to testing
its influences upon the body, and its power of modifying
the phenomena of disease, in a curative or an injurious
manner. In this, my expectations have been fully and
exactly realized.
I have found it perfectly practicable to operate upon
the variol)s portions of the body, and stimulate or mod-
ify their functions by the appropriate action upon the
cerebral sources of their innervation. For instance, in
many persons I am able, in fifteen minutes, to excite the
gastric action so as to produce an uncomfortable degree
of hunger. When, on the other hand, hunger is gnaw-
ing, in the same length of time, it may be effectually
moved. lVIr. L. came into my room, the other evening,
under a strong feeling of thirst, to see if I could remove
it. In about ten or twelve minutes, it was so complete-
ly removed, that he even felt averse to drinking. Having
done this, I procee.ced to restore his thirst, and in about
five minutes he rose to drink.
As I do not now propose to furnish an essay upon the
subject, or a description of my experiments, (indeed my
time does not permit,) I simply offer, in a dense form, a
catalogue of the results which I have already produced,
and which may easily be produced again. I am pre-
paring to visit your .city, and may arrive nearly as soon
.as this manuscript will reach you by mail. When there,
I expect to proceed as soon as practicable, with a public
.and a private demonstration of these discoveries, and of
.other collateral matters to which I need not yet allnne.
IN CE~EBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 17
Catalogue of effects which have been produced by direct
operations upon the brain :
1. Increase and abridgement of the range of dis-
tinct vision, as much as one or t\vo feet. Increase of
vigor in either eye, with diminution in the other. In-
vigoration of either eye, to enable it to open freely, and
bear a strong light. Increase of the power of perceiv-
ing by a dim light. Increase of the power of bearing a
strong light, and seeing in the sunshine. Relief of ten·
derness and inflammation in the eyes. Restoration of
a moderate degree of vision, to a case of six years total
blindness, accompanied by cataract.* Restoration of
the power of reading short sentences, to a woman who
had been for several years unable to read, accomplished
in twenty minutes. Removal of stiffness of the eyelids.
"\Vakefulness; openness of the Uds, with difficulty of
closing them. Heaviness of the lids; drowsiness; pro-
found sleep.
2. The relief of partial deafness. Increase, or dimi-
nution of the faculty of hearing at pleasure in either
ear, or in both.
3. Increase of the sense of touch in either hand,
singly, or in both; and diminution in either, or both.
This is very striking: to one hand, all objects are made
to feel smooth; to the other, the finest textures appear
coarse and rough. The human hand feels as coarse as a
piece of hog-skin.
4. Increase and diminution of the general sensibil-
ity of the body; causing one side to be comparatively
insensible to touch and pressure, ·while the other recoils
from the lightest touch: one side being very ticklish,
and the other insensible to tickling. (The distinction
•I have a description of this case, from ten gentlemen of respcctabilitr,
who witnes~Sed her blindness and her cure.
18 SKETCHES Of' BUCHANAN' s DISCOVERIES
of sensibility may be accurately traced along the me-
dian line.) Increase of the sensibility to heat and
cold in either hand. Rent, and pricking sensations, in
either hand: numbness and weakness in the other, or
in both.
5. Increase of the electricity of the system, causing
the fingers and toes to stand apart, like the filaments of
a feather, or the balls of an electrometer: touch, being
painful to them in this condition. Increase of the elec-
tric sense, until the galvanism of the human system can
be distinctly appreciated.
6. Extreme excitability and nervousness, (produced
in a few minutes.) The dissipation of this condition-
soothing and composing to sleep.
7. Increase of the sense of smell, in either nostril,
singly; and increase of the power of taste, in either
half of the tongue.
8; A free flow of saliva: propensity to chew, and
a strong propensity to swallow.
9. The effectual removal of an ague in fifteen min-
utes : the removal of a fever in three.fourths of an hour.
10. The cure of all cases of tooth-ache that I have
met with, in a period varying from ten minutes, to three-
fourths of an hour. The cure of all cases of head-ache,
in which this method has been fairly tried, generally ac-
complished in three, five, ten, or fifteen minutes. The
removal of all local pains that I have treated-not de-
pendent upon disorganization of structure, or a sympa-
thy with such disorganization. (The treatment of these
cases, although upon the same principles, was not exclu~
sively confined to cerebral operations.)
11. Increase of muscular strength; great debility,
and even clumsiness. Increase of the strength of the
lN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 19
left half of the body, and diminution in the right half. 'X<
Restoration of the balance; strengthening the right, and
weakening the left, &c.
12. Great increase of heat, especially in the lower
extremities-becoming disagreeable in fifteen minutes-
reduction of tempetature below the pleasant standard.
• One of the gentlemen upon whom I have made the moat interesting
experiments, having made mention of them in a letter, I here present a
copy. It is from Dr. J. Lowther, of Clarksville, Arkansas, a respectable
and experienced physician :
"I have been the subject of a great many phrenological experiments by
Dr. Buchanan, who has been lecturing.
"To detail to you all the operations, and their results, would take per·
haps a week.
"Suffice it to say, that by operating upon one portion of the brain, he
would make me left handed, so that I would be as strong again in the left,
as the rigat-then he would restore them to a balance. Then he 'could
make me at least one·third stronger in both-lifting heavy chairs above my
head, that I could not have lifted much above my knees. He would cause
me to see much better ont of one eye than the other-hear better with one
ear than the other. He could make me a fighting rowdy at one time-then
a hero with very elevated sentiments of honor.· Then he could touch
another string on the instrument, and I would become as pusillanimou3 as
I had been brave before. He would cause another string to vibrate, and
hope, the sweetener of life, would respond to the touch-and then I was
enabled to soar aloft in the regions of subli~e fancy. Then reverence
would answer to the touch, and I would behold first the Omnipotence of
God, and the nothingness of man-and so on with every faculty. In every
instance, he could tell me the results before be would make the experi·
ment.t
" I am in great haste, and must conclude my narrative : but at some
future period, I will write you more fully.
"Yours, with respect, J. LOWTHER."
t This is true, and I generally did so in the physiological experiments ;
but in those strictly phrenological, I frequently left him to decide what
faculty, or faculties, had been brought into play, by his own consciousness
of the change in his mind. He _g~ner~lly gave a vety g~>Od idea of the
functions of the organ, by descnbmg Its effects upon himself, wheu I
placed it under excitement. Being of a very suitable temperament for my
operations, I produced the desired effects upon him very1~romptly. Having
once carried him through a round of changes, he exclaJmed-"why-you
make me a perfect chameleon."
20 ~KETCHBS OF DUCH.-\NAN ' s DISCOVERIES
13. l\Iodifications of the circulation. Raising or
depressing the pulse, as much as fifteen or twenty beats
a minute, in a vigorous, healthy constitution. Producing
a small, wiry, or a small, soft pulse, and producing a full
and soft, or a full and bounding pulse, in a short time.
Accelerating the general circulation, and directing it to
the head, chest, abdomen, heart, upper or lower extremi·
ties, frontal, or posterior portion of the body; produ-
cing, or relieving the congestion of any particular part.
(Dr. L., has successfully applied this discovery, in regu·
lating the pulse of his patients.)
14. Relief of dyspeptic pains, and symptoms, in
twenty minutes: such as fulness, oppression, and acidi-
ty of stomach. Invigoration of the appetite, and sud-
den .removal of nausea.
15. Various affections of the lungs. A congested
suffocating condition, produced in six or eight minutes,
and relieved in a shorter time. A hurried breathing, and
asthmatic symptoms, produced in about fifteen minutes.
Free and pleasant respiration, with a relief of these
morbid symptoms.
16. Vigorous action of the liver, resulting in co-
pious bilious discharges. Prompt and effectual relief
of pains and soreness in the region of the liver.
17. Urination, produced sometimes in three-some-
times in fifteen minutes.
18. Vigorous action of the lower bowels; in one
case, resulting in alvine evacuations, after ten minutes
operation upon the brain.
19. Relief of mental dullness, and lowness of
spirits.
20. General invigoration, and reanimation of the
constitution.
These statements being addressed to the medical
profession, no commentary is needed to illustrate the
l N CEREHlUL PHYSIOLOGY. 21
importance ~f the results which have been thus prompt-
ly developed. You perceive, that an agent has been
added to our therapeutic list, of extraordinary and as
yet incalculable power.
Whatever may be my own opinion, as to the extent
io which it may become a substitute for the existing sys-
tem of medication, I leave each one to draw his own
inferences, from the naked statement of facts which I
have presented. It shall be my purpose to demonstrate
practically, the immense power which has been acquired
for hygienic and medicinal purposes-for the treatment of
insanity-for the purposes of Education-for promoting
the general social happiness, by a due regulation of the
passions-for the reformation of criminals, and for the
ph~losophical re-organization of the science of medicine.
In conclusion, I would offer a word in reference to the
wonderful " art, science, or imposture," which has made
so much noise, and excited so much credulity, opposi-
tion, debate, and criticism, under the title of Animal
ltlagnetism.
I have proven by experiment, that most of the phe·
nomena which have been reported by the magnetists,
are real occurrences, and by no means incompatible with
the known laws of Physiology, although they derive
their explanation from principles which Physiologists
have not yet known, and which the magnetists do not
appear to have properly sought. Animal Magnetism has
been too much a display of wonderful results, and there
has not been a sufficient and efficient investigation of
the laws, by which those results have been produced.
To such an investigation, I have directed my efforts,
rnided by an improved system of Cerebral Physiology,
b •
and I have found no very formidable difficulty. By
1neans of the Pathognomic laws and Phrenological prin·
2~ SKETCH ES OF BUCHANAN 's DISCOVERIES
ciples, which I have established, I flatter myself that the
sunlight of science will soon rest upon this mysterious
terra incognita, in which the usual laws of Physiology
and Psychology, seem at present mingled, confounded~
and lost.
JOS. R. BUCHANAN.
August 25, 1841.
DR. BucHANAN' s LECTUREs. *-It affords us much
pleasure to give place to the following card, furnished
by a number of our fellow-citizens, to Dr. Joseph R.
Buchanan, in testimony of the high estimate they place
upon his eminent abilities as an interesting and instruc-
tive lecturer on Phrenology. Dr. B. has just concluded
his first course of Phrenological lectures in this city ;
and it is but justice to him to say, that he has done more
in the way of making converts to that science, than all
the lecturers that have preceded him. His claim to
having made many important discoveries in the science,
is also fully conceded by some of the most intelligent
men of our city. Dr. B. professes, for instance, to be
able to excite the different mental faculties, by exciting
the particular portions of the brain, said to be the seat of
those faculties. He has made a great number of experi-
ments, to demonstrate .this new theory, which have been
pronounced satisfactory, by some of our most intelli-
gent citizens.
[The resolutions of the class, omitting what is merely
complimentary to Dr. B., are as follows;]
Resolved, That we believe Dr. B. to have gone far in
establishing, by experiment, during the recent course of
ff From the LouisTille Journal.
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 23
lectures, the important principle, that the several organs
of the brain can be individually excited, so as to mani-
fest, distinctly, in an increased degree, their respective
functions.
Resolved, That we also believe Dr. B. to have made
very considerable advances in Phrenology, in having as-
certained the functions of certain portions of the brain
hitherto undiscovered, some of which are especially im-
portant as controlling the external senses.
Resolved, That the zeal and unwearied assiduity with
which Dr. B. has prosecuted the investigation of the
science of Phrenology, reflect the highest credit upon
him, and entitle him to the thanks of the scientific and
liberal throughout our country.
NEUROLOGICAL EXPERIMENTS, RECENTLY PERFORMED IN TlfE
CITY OF LOUISVILLE, BY DR. J. R. BUCHANAN."'
NEuRoLOGY is the only term adequate to convey an
idea of that system or mass of science which I am at
present propagating. Phrenology (meaning the science
of the mind) does not embrace the corporeal or physio-
logical effects and powers of the brain. The functions
of the brain are equally important, in a physiological
and in a psychological point of view. The psychologi-
cal department of the science was created by Gall. The
physiological portion, is the recent discovery by which
I have doubled the mass of the science. The term
"Neurology," by signifying the science of the nervous
system, is competent to embrace all its functions, as well
the mental as the corporeal, and is therefore the proper
" From the Louisville Journal.
24 SKET CHES OF BUCHANAN ' s DISCOVERIES
term for that comprehensive science, of which Craniolo-
gy, Phrenology, and Physiology, are constituent portions.
* * * * * ~ *
As it is impossible, for obvious reasons, that the in-
cidents by which the science of Neurology has been illus-
trated in Louisville, should be generally known, or that
the experiments should be performed in a very public
manner, I propose to give n. brief statement of some of
the facts occurring within the last month in this city. In
doing this, I make no mention of the names of persons ;
but, should any respectable gentleman desire to look into
the matter further, he can, by calling upon me, learn the
names of persons concerned, or whatever else he may
wish to know upon the subject.
Before proceedi1'!g with the detail, I must remark,
that the object in my operations is, to excite some of the
cerebral organs, and interfere with, or interrupt, the ac-
tion of others, so as to cause a change in mind or body
that can be perceived; some of our powers being increas-
and others diminished.
Soon after my arrival in the city, ,I attempted, in my
room at the Galt House, to perform an experiment with
l\1r. ---, which made him perceive a difference in the
sensibility of his two hands. This I mention because he
is a gentleman of large frame, and one that we might
suppose by no means impressible.
A few days afterwards, as I was sitting in the office
of Dr. ---, a lady came in, (the Doctor's daughter,)
and after a little conversation, I proposed to try an ex-
periment upon her. I operated upon the head, while I
directed her to feel various objects with her hands, and
ascertain their quality. In doing so, she presentlv re-
marked that there was a singular difference i;1 her ha~ds
and that objects felt differently in each hand ; yet thi~
lN CEREBRAl. PHYSIOLOGY. 25
surprised her so much that she could scarcely believe her
own senses. To convince her more effectually, I held
my handkerchief behind her chair, and requested her to
examine (without seeing) the two handkerchiefs which I
held iu my hand. She put her hands behind her back to
feel them, and I gave her the same handkerchief in each
hand successi,·ely. I had been stimulating (through the
brain) the touch of the left hand, so as to make it more
acute than that of the right. 'Vhen she felt my handker-
chief in this manner, she pronounced that there was a
very sensible difference between the t\vo handkerchiefs ;
that the one in her left hand felt much coarser than the
one in her right. I then surprised her, by showing that
it was the same which she felt with each hand. This
experiment proved very satisfactory to her brother, who
witnessed it with aH proper caution and scepticism. A
few days afterwards, I made some more striking experi-
ments upon the same lady.
vVith Mr. H., I made such an experiment as induced
him to give me the following testimonial:
"By operating upon my head, Dr. Buchanan pro-
duced a singular difference in my hands. The left hand
became remarkably sensitive, and possessed of very
acute touch. By rubbing the hands upon a piece of
cloth, which felt smooth to the right hand, the left per-
ceived a much greater degree of friction; and, indeed,
could scarcely endure a degree of friction, which did not
affect the right. To the left hand, all objects felt coarse;
and, when I felt a handkerchief behind my back with
both hands, the difference \Vas so great, that I supposed
it to be two handkerchiefs of very different quality. Dr.
B. then made another operation upon my head, without
letting me know the object, which he communicated in a
whisper to another gentleman present. In a few min-
D
2() SKETCHES OF BUCHAN AN' S DI SCOVERIE S
utes, I felt a disposition to swallow; and, us I did so,
they seemed to be amused, while Dr. B. requested me
not to swallow, as that would interfere with the experi-
ment. I endeavored to abstain, but found that it was
impossible to do so; and, seeing that the effect was pro-
duced in spite of my effort to prevent it, they informed
me that the object of the experiment was to compel me
to swallow. These experiments were very striking and
satisfactory to me."
A few days previous to the experiment just men-
tioned, having made a visit on Sixth street, the subject
of animal magnetism was spoken of; and I mentioned
some anecdotes upon the subject. As they expressed a
disbelief of the possibility of one individual influencing
another, as the magnetists report, I undertook to show
them, without attempting the process of animal magnet-
ism, that a very great influence could be exerted by ope-
rating upon ·the head. The lady (her name is not un-
known to fame) entirely disbelieved that any influence
could be exerted upon her, and I endeavored to convince
her, by an experiment which was to have a soothing in-
fluence. She admitted that the effect was produced;
but, eager to deny what she could, she remarked, that
feeling her head, or any thing about her head, always
had that effect. Then I informed her, that I would con-
tinue feeling about her head, and yet prove to her that it
might have just the opposite effect, if I chose. I changed
my hands, so as to operate upon the organs of the bad
passions ; and, after a while, she found that the influ-
ence was any thing but soothing: it was, in fact, quite
disagreeable, and she was glad to have me discontinue
the operation.
Her brother-in-law, proved to be a pretty good subject
of experiment. I told them, by way of a banter, that I
'
lN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY . 27
could make him swallow ; and, taking hold of his head,
the effect was very soon apparent. He was swallowing
repeatedly; but said that, by an effort, he could refrain
from doing it. I then took the organ of benevolence for
experiment, and excited it without telling him my object.
It evidently put him in a fine, good humor, and had also
a soothing, and rather soporific effect. He was in a fine,
pleasant, drowsy, good-humored state of feeling, and he
recognized a very marked effect from the experiment. I
asked him whether it was an animal, moral, or intel-
lectual power that was excited. He replied that it was
moral, entirely. I then gave him the names of the moral
organs; asking him if it were like reverence, firmness,
benevolence, conscientiousness, hope, or marvellous-
ness. He replied, distinctly, that benevolence was the
feeling which he had experienced more than any other.
I then dissipated the excitement of that organ, and en-
deavored to excite the very opposite; directing .the stim-
ulus especially to combativeness and destructiveness.
His countenance very quickly changed, and I asked him
many questions as to the state of his feelings, which he
answered in such a manner, as to show that I had pro-
duced exactly the effect that I had wished. He said he
felt less good-natured and amiable; that all his drowsi-
ness was dissipated; that he would be much less liberal,
and much more quarrelsome in his present condition,
than in the one first excited; that·it was neither a moral
nor an intellectual faculty which was excited, but purely
animal. I then asked him what he would call the fac-
ulty excited, if he should judge by his predominant feel-
ings. He replied that he would call it revenge. This,
I informed him, was not a phrenological term; and I
wished to learn,, which of the phrenological organs was
excited. Naming the animal organs, usually recognized
28 ~KETCHES Oi? llUClLlN.u; ' S DlSC'OVEHIES
by Phrenologists, I inquired if he experienced the influ-
ence of secretiveness, acquisitiveness, cautiousness.
combativenes3, destructiveness, self-esteem, approba~
tiveness, adhesiveness, or philoprogenitiveness? He
replied, that destructiveness was the feeling he had
chiefly experienced. I asked if it were not rather com-
bativeness. He replied, that it was either combative-
ness or destructiveness ; but he could ha~dly say which
he felt most, as he could perceive but little difference in
the nature of the two faculties. I cannot give all the
conversation that occurred bet\veen us ; but suffice it to
say, that he gave an excellent description of the organs
upon ·which I had operated. I stimulated the organ of
self-esteem, and he described correctly the feeling result-
ing; saying, that it was a calm feeling of self-satisfac-
tion: but its manifestations were not so striking as those
of the other organs.
On a fine morning, about the last of September, I
made a visit to Mrs. - ,-, on Market street, who had
shown some disposition to call me visionary, when she
heard of my discoveries. I determined to make her the
subject of some experiments, which might convince her,
that I was correct and practical. I operated upon the
organs which have a soothing and soporific tendency.
She described the effects as I expected them. She was
very calm, tranquil, amiable, inert, and disposed to be
drowsy. I continued the operation: the drowsiness in-
creased. She leaned back 'in her chair, and declared
that she felt exactly as she usually did from taking
opium: her mind was active, but still a drowsy influence
was overcoming her, becoming stronger and stronger.
Again, and again, she compared it to that of opium.
She closed her ~yes, and appeared to be going to sl,eep,
calm and motwnless. After a time, I removed my
lN CEHEBIUL PH\'SlOLOGX.
hands: she remained in the same attitude, as if unvvil-
ling to move ; and, opening her eyes, with a slight
smile, said, in a very low tone of voice, "I'm not
asleep." Although not asleep, she was evidently in a
condition very similar to it; and I continued my opera-
tions a few minutes longer, to subdue her more effect-
ually. In producing sleep, I operate in such a manner,
as to stop or retard the activity of all the vital organs.
In this case, I did not succeed in arresting the activity of
the mind, or of the external senses, so much as of the
muscular powers. So effectually were these overcome,
that she declared she had entirely lost the power of her
arm. I asked her to raise it. She declared that she
could not. '' vVell, try to raise it," said I. "I can't
try," was her reply. Her arm remained motionless.
vVe requested her to arise. She attempted, and could
not. Her son assisted her up ; and, after she got upon
her feet, she was able, by making an effort, to stand;
but quickly sank back in her chair. I now changed my
operations ; revived her, and in a short time, gave her
great animation and vigor. Her husband came in, feel-
ing unwell, and with bad sensations 'in the liver, stom-
ach, and digestive viscera, for which he had taken some-
thing without any benefit. I proposed to cure him with-
out physic, and operated upon his head about twenty
minutes. lie declared that he experienced very decided
and considerable relief. I tried an experiment upon his
son, and mdde him conscious of a considerable change
in the sensations of his arms and hands. This experi
ment was so familiar, that I paid no particular attention
to the effects.
Soon after the experiments mentioned in my last, as
occurring on l\1arket street, I visited a family on Fifth,
in company with my friend Dr. R. There were two
30 SKETCHES OF HU<.;IlAN AN'S DIS COVEIUES
ladies in the house, whose constitutions were quite
favorable to neurological operations. vVith one of
these, I ~ommenced some operations upon the head, the
effect of which was very considerable; and, indeed, so
much, that she became unwilling to continue them. It
has frequently happened, that the best subjects of experi-
ment become alarmed at the great and sudden effects
which I produce upon them, and unwilling to undergo
any further operation. ft
.Mrs. P., a delicate and consumptive lady, expressed
her willingness to have an experiment tried, and I pro-
ceeded with one which might at the same time exert a
beneficial influence upon her constitution, by strength-
ening the internal vital functions, and develope some
striking results for observation. In a few moments, she
felt the favorable internal influence ; and, all at once,
surprised my friend, by declaring that she had lost the
command over her left arm, and could not raise it. She
was requested to try her best to elevate the arm. She
made the effort ; and, while the arm remained power-
less, we could perceive a trembling, convulsive move-
ment in the hand, as long as the effort lasted. l\iy
friend, being her physician, felt a little alarmed for his
delicate patient, as he had never before seen an operation
of the kind. The effect, although beneficial, as I intend·
ed it, had exceeded my anticipations; as, not being aware
of the exact state of her health, I had not anticipated so
much impressibility. I suspended the operation after
these effects had been produced, and before our visit ter-
minated, they passed off.
Early in October, I assembled a party of ladies in
the parlor of the Franklin House, and gave them an ex-
planation of my doctrines, after which I proposed to try,
~mongst all of them, what effect could be produced.
1~ CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 31
I began with 1\Irs. 1., who seemed as favorable a
subject as any present. I continued an operation upon
the moral organs, until she felt, distinctly, the soothing
and amiable influence. vVhen this was accomplished, I
reversed the operation, for the purpose of throwing her,
if possible, into an ill-humor. In a few minutes, she
admitted that there was a change in her feelings; and
all the ladies present observed a sensible change in her
countenance. She said she felt as if vexed or discon-
tented about something, and that the effect was quite un-
pleasant, while the former operation was very agreeable.
She acknowledged that she felt an unamiable temper;
and ihe ladies around her observed it so distinctly, that
they were entirely satisfied with the degree of the effect
which was apparent, and requested me not to carry it any
further. I reversed the operation, and in a few minutes
she declared herself restored to her pleasant state of
mind ; and all present perceived that her countenance
had recovered its amiability.
I made no other experiment of importance, except
upon Miss --. I endeavored to excite her, and stim-
ulate combativeness. She was certainly considerably
excited, but, as she spoke of the effects in rather a play-
ful manner, I determined to change them, and proceed-
ed to develope such as would show themselves, in a strik-
ing manner, without depending upon her descriptive
powers. I proceeded to put her to sleep. In six or
eight minutes the effect was apparent; her eyes closed,
and her hands dropped. She perceived that she was
nearly gone; and, having determined not to be put to
sleep in company, she roused up by a vigorous effort and
removed my hand from her head. But the sleepy influ-
ence was upon her. She seemed half unconscious, and
I again slipped my hand upon her head ; in a few mo-
32 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN ' S DISCOVERIES
ments she perceived what I was doing, and again repell-
ed my hand, making a vigorous effort to shake ofr the
sleepy spell. She straightened up; again her head nod-
ded ; she raised her head, elevated her brows, and en-
deavored to open her eyes; the lids seemed hardly to
obey her will, and she assisted them by lifting them with
her hands'; but·as soon as she ceased the effort, they fell
together. She stretched her arms and rose up, but seem-
ed scarcely able to stand. \Ve supported her, as she
moved, with half-closed eyes, to the sofa. She sat dO\vn
upon it, and, seeming to give up the contest, fell back as
if asleep. The company were all gathered around her,
talking to her, trying to rouse her, and scarcely believ-
ing what they saw. She heeded nothing, and, if she
spoke, it was in an almost inaudible voice : indeed, her
whole appearance, her sallow complexion and thin vis-
age, her strange and feeble movements, her absence of
mind, the lifetess expression of her eyes when they were
half opened, and her evident desire to recover the posses-
sion of her faculties, made, altogether, such a picture,
that I could compare it to nothing but a galvanized
corpse, beginning to recover its vitality. They talked
to her, threw water in her face, and endeavored to assist
her recovery; but, as I did not help them in the restora-
tion, it was· twenty minutes or half an hour before she
was fully restored to her faculties. The influence was·
described by herself afterwards, as very strange; and she
said that she struggled with all her might against the
soporific influence which I had exerted, until she even
felt vexed and angry that she could not shake it off. If
she had yielded to the influence in the first instance, I
might have put her to sleep more promptly, in a very
pleasant manner, and waked her up in a few moments;
but, as she resisted the operation, I left her to her mvn
y:-q CEREBRAl, PHYSIOLOGY. 33
efforts.-A few days afterwards, a small party was as-
sembled at the house of Mr. K., on Jefferson street. I
gave them a brief explanation of the principles of Neu-
rology, and selected Miss ---, a young lady of ex-
tremely delicate appearance, as the best subject of ex-
periment. I began by an operation upon the sense of
hearing; but finding her more susceptible than I had
supposed, I discontinued this, and proceeded to a more
striking experiment. 'Vithout letting any of the com-
pany know what was to be done, I proceeded to put her
to sleep by a method which is always pleasant to the
subjects. By this method, (keeping the moral faculties
active,) we giYe them a cheerful calmness and serenity,
accompanied by the most pleasant thoughts and emo-
tions.
As she sat upright in her chair, and the co'mpany
around maintained a sprightly conversation with her, it
is obvious that every thing was opposed to the soporific
influence which I attempted to exert, and that the cir-
cumstances were well calculated to defeat the experi-
ment. This, however, was a most fortunate concurrence
of circumstances, to enable me to display the power of
the Neurological influence in a situation in which no one
could refer any portion of the effect to imagination, or to
the surrounding circumstances.
In a few moments the company were amused by hear-
ing her remark that she felt drowsy. Her countenance
next began to show the effects, and she announced that
she was positively sleepy. As this effect was not antici-
pated, no one believed it to be any thing but a jest, until
they saw her eyes close, and witnessed every appearance
of sleep. She was in fact sound asleep, in her chair, in
about fiye minutes from the commencement of the opera~
E
:~4 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN ' S DISCOVERIES
tion, of the qfrects of which she had not previously the
slightest idea.
Her sister approached, and, observing something
strange in her appearance, spoke to her, and endeavored
to rouse her, but all in vain : she took hold of her hand,
and spoke to her more earnestly; but obtained no sign of
recognition-no evidence of consciousness. The sleep-
ing lady \vas entirelyunconscious that any one had spoken
to or touched her, until afterwards informed by the com-
puny, when awake.
The fragile form of one so delicate in health, made
her an object of anxious eare ; and to see her thus
strangely entranced, roused the extreme alarm of her
sister. She screamed aloud, and, trembling with appre-
hension, commanded me to " wake her up ! wake her
up! take it off! take off your spell!" But even this
was unheard by our sleeping beauty. She was in the
land of dreams, and her dreams were pleasant. To re-
lieve her sister's anxiety, I reversed the operation, chang-
ing the position of my hands; nnd, in half a minute, she
woke up, and turned ov~r upon the arm of Mrs. F., with
the most charming expression of countenance that can
be imagined. The whole operation she described as
being the most soothing and delightful: indeed, she did
not thank us for waking her up. What was the subject
of her dreams, she did not communicate to the company;
but, I have no doubt, that in this condition, those of so
delicate susceptibility, might have their dreams directed
and considerably modified by the operator. '
NEuRoLOGY.*-The progress of this science is des-
tined to be more rapid and triumphant than that of any
.---
• From the Louisville Journal of January '21st, 1842.
lN C~REBR .\L PHYSIOLOGY. 35
which has heretofore been presented to the world. The
experiments by which the new principles in Physiology
are developed, are so satisfactory, and so easily per·
formed, that hundreds of demonstrators will soon be en-
gaged in illustrating the science, and will carry convic-
tion throughout America and Europe.
My experiments have already been successfully re-
peated at the East, by Messrs. Purkitt, and Pons, lec-
ttuers on Phrenology, and can be repeated by any one
who will take the pains to seek an opportunity. I would
remark, however, that, at first, gentlemen who may en-
gage in illustrating Neurology, will be disappointed in
some of their experiments, because of the inaccuracy of
the existing science of Phrenology. One-third of the
organs are inaccurately located ; and a large number
(about two-thirds of my catalogue) are not known or
described in any treatise on the science.
After the publication of my System of Neurology,
and the illustrative bust, experiments may be made with
perfect certainty as to the results.
There.will be failures, also, for another reason: most
of the functions displayed by the excitement of the dif-
ferent organs are compound. The operations will there-
fore sometimes display a compound function, and some-
times a simple function. The results will thus become
contradictory, until the operators understand the laws of
antagonism and co-operation, which are almost entirely
unknown to Phrenologists at present.
Those who attempt to repeat the experiments, should,
therefore, be cautious not to carry the excitement of any
organ too far, if they wish to display its normal action,
and its usual effects.
JOS. R. BUCHAN'Al'i,
JG SKET CllES OF BUCH A:U.N ' s DlSCOVEIUES
ExPERIMESTs IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. *-Attracted
by a notice of lUessrs. Purkitt and Pons, that they would,
on the evening of the 3d of December, repeat the experi-
ments of Dr. Buchanan, of Louisville, Kentucky, in
Cerebral Physiology, I attended, with a large company,
at the appointed place, (the Universalist Church,) and,
for the first time in my life, beheld a person in what is
called a magnetic sleep.
Mr. Purkitt, in a preliminary lecture, contended, by
many strong arguments, convincing, I presume, to most
present, that the brain was the organ of the mind. After
this, a large committee of scientific and literary gentle-
men was designated to oversee the experiments, and
guard, as far as practicable, against fraud and collusion.
They were made on a lady from the city of New York,
of perhaps twenty or twenty-five years of age, apparent-
ly intelligent, and obviously blind. She was examined
by a medical gentleman of the committee, and pro-
nounced entirely blind. Before she was introduced, 1'1-ir.
Purkitt, in her absence, gave a brief history o( her life
and education, from which it appeared that she was a
worthy member of a Christian church; that she had re-
ceived a good common e~ucation, and had been in-
structed in the general division of the brain into three
portions; namely, the anterior, the upper, and the pos-
terior; and that these were respectively the regions of
the intellectual and moral powers, and the propensities.
It was confidently affirmed, by Mr. Purkitt, that from
diligent and searching inquiry of her friends, instructor,
and all others at all acquaitlted with her, among whom
were many well-known and respectable gentlemen of
New York, it was, to his mind, most satisfactorily proved
that her knowledge of Phrenology extended no further ;
• From the Newark Daily Advertiser .
lN CEltEBIU.L PHYSIOLOGY , 37
and that she did not know the names of any of the thir-
ty-six parts into which the head had been divided, with
the exception of three-mirthfulness, benevolence, and
veneration. "And now," said 1\Ir. Purkitt, "how do
you know that we are honest? Of course (said he, with
singular naivete) we are; and besides, we offer our-
selves, and are desirous~ to be put under oath in regard
to our knowledge of the girl, or any other matter con-
nected with the experiments." No one requested it; but
I am entirely convinced of the integrity of...Messrs. Pur-
kitt and Pons. A black-board was then hung on the
wall, behind the desk, and the girl placed with her back
to it, in front of the desk. It was agreed, that the com
mittee should cause to be written upon the board, such
experiments as they desired to see performed, under
which Mr. Purkitt was to write in advance the result thai
would follow.
The trial began by inscribing "Inhabitiveness" upon
the board ; under which 1\fr. Purkitt wrote-" She will
talk of her home and her reluctance to leave it." Mr.
Peale, of New York, threw her into a magnetic sleep,
and placed her in communication with Mr. Purkitt, at
first; but, objection being made, he placed her in com-
munication with a distinguished physician of this city,
a member of the committee, who proceeded to interro-
gate her with questions having no relation to the passion
indicated: such as-" "\Vhat are you thinking of, Mary?"
"'¥"hat do you love 'most?" Answer: "1\Iyself." Ques-
tion repeated. Answer: "I don't want to go to Boston,
because I shall have to leave my home. Have I got
to go to Boston?" Question: "If I would give you
five thousand dollars, \vould you not go?" "No, no,"
with much feeling. "Would you be so cruel as to
make me go?" ~ Before the questions were asked, and
38 SKETCHES OF BUCH.\i"AiS '8 DlSCOV~RlES
as soon as the words were written on the black-board,
either 1\Ir. Purkitt, or 1\Ir. Pons, directed l\1r. Peale, who
said he was, and indeed appeared to be, unacquainted
with Phrenology, to excite that part of the brain which
is the organ of the faculty o·r feeling inscribed upon the
board. This was done, by a smart friction of it for a
short time (probably not a minute) with the fingers.
This, as I have said, was performed by l\1r. Peale, so
that Messrs. Purkitt and Pons, had no agency at all in ·
the experiments, except to point out the part of the head
to be excited, and to foretell the result.
'Vhile the lady was thus oppressed with sadness, at
the thought of being carried from horne, a sudden change
came over her dream; for the committee had caused
" mirthfulness" to appear on the black board : and, as
soon as that organ was excited by Mr. Peale, she broke
out into a hearty laugh, which lasted till the next experi-
ment, notwithstanding the numerous questions of the
Doctor, in communication with her, as to her desire to
go to Boston. Electricity seemed for a time to be added
to magnetism, for the whole company became convulsed
with laughter. Being asked, she said she laughed "be-
cause 1\fr. Peale told her she need not leave her home
and go to Boston," &c. The action of this organ \vas
allayed, while that of inhabitiveness'continued. " Com-
bativeness" then appeared upon the board; the organ of
which was no sooner excited, than she became violent
in her action-raised her hands to strike-said "she
would fight any body that would take her to Boston. I
am so mad with you, because you say I shall go to Bos-
ton." And she, on some questions being put, expressed
the same attachment to home, as at first.
All the organs are now allayed, and that of benevo-
lence was put into action, agreeably to the suggestion of
IN CEREBRAL P IIYSIOLOGY. 3Y
the committee. The effect was beautiful and striking.
Her voice assumed remarkable softness-her tones were
soothing-her manner kind. She was asked why she
came out this evening. Her answer was, "I came with
Mr. Peale. I feel sorry for those poor people who were
so cold; I would give them all I have to make them
comfortable."
Upon the organ of destructiveness being ~xcited, in
combination with the last, she tore and bit her clothes,
exclaiming, " Oh poor people, I am sorry for them," &c.
The same success attended the experiments on the or-
gans of numbers, locality, acquisitiveness, and others,
separately, and in conjunction; but neither time nor
space will allow me to be more particular. But I must
not omit entirely the striking experiments on her organs
of time, and tune, and veneration. With respect to the
former, she said she wanted to hear the oratorio, and be-
gan to sing. Suddenly she cried out, " Oh, there is a
baby in the next door," and made the motion of trotting
it on her knee, singing Old Hundred by way of a lulla-
by. The excitement of this organ having subsided, and
that of veneration being awakened, she talked of minis-
ters and the church, and clasped her hands. " Is there
no church to-night?" she inquired; "I want to hear the
word of God." Her voice was low, soft, and solemn;
and she asked, "May I not go to church, Mr. Peale?"
vVith the exception of ideality, the organs were
promptly excited; and that' was also successfully done,
after some fruitless attempts-finally proved to be one
of the most interesting experiments; for she seemed to
dilate with pleasure, and spoke of "that beautiful book."
She also recited several verses of a piece of poetry, said
to be written by Mr. Hoffman, beginning "The conflict
is over," &c. She said "she wa~ yery fond of poetry,
40 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN's DISCOVERIES
could recite all night, and she must read another work of
Hoffman."
She was now relieved from the magnetic influence ;
and .Mr. Purkitt remarked, that he could perform experi-
ments, now she was awake, similar to those already ex-
hibited. He accordingly repeated those on locality,
eventual~t.y, and number, with similar results.
These experiments were announced to be the first of
the sort performed on this side of the Alleganies, and as
intended to verify those of Doctor Buchanan, in illustra-
tion of the principles of Phrenology. * '*' *
Dn. BucHANAN's LETTER. *-It affords us pleasure to
gratify Dr. Buchanan, in the publication of his letter,
which will be found on our first page. If our readers
compare this letter, with the accounts in the last and pre-
vious numbers of our paper, they will see at once the
great difference between his discovery, and those of our
own. His, according to his own account. are confined
to the nervous system; ours have to do with man's mag-
netic nature, and the laws by which it is governed; the
plurality of the pairs of organs ; the magnetic poles; the
opposition of different organs, etc., and not merely to the
possibility of exciting the organs, nor as to their precise
number; though, indeed, we have demonstrated, as we
think, the existence of a number not before discovered,
as stated in our last paper.
It is a fact, to which we have before alluded, that the
organs were excited by the writer, and others at his sug-
gestion in this city, last July or August-some months
before any thing of the kind had ever been heard of in
•From the l'lewYork Watchman.
•
lN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 41
this part of the country. And it is equally remarkable,
that the same thing precisely seems to have been done in
England, without a knowledge of either Dr. Buchanan's
experiments, or our own ! These coincidences certainly
demonstrate the truth of Phrenology.
We never saw the papers to which Dr. B. refers, and
regret that he has never received those we sent him.
To the Editor of the 1Vew York Watchman:
DEAR SIR: A friend has just placed in my hands
the New York Watchman, of January 15th, in which is
contained, a description of experiments similar to those
in which I have been engaged for about twelve months
past. As I do not recollect to have seen any previous
account of these experiments, there must be some mis-
take between us, as to the papers you speak of having
sent me, or some of them must have miscarried. This,
however, is entirely immaterial. You will see, by the
documents which I send you herewith, that I was giving
public lectures and experiments, last April. As I hap-
pened to be at Little Rock, when I first determined on
presenting the matter to a public audience, my first lec-
ture upon this science, was given at that place, on the
16th of April. vVhat I had done previously, it is not
now necessary to detail ; though I might, by so doing,
show claims of discovery more than two years earlier.
My operations having been as yet remote from those
cities, in which notoriety and fame are soonest acquired,
I find no difficulty in supposing that the statement con·
cerning my lectures may not have reached your eye, a].
though it was copied into a paper of so wide a circula-
tion as the Louisville Journal.
F
42 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN ' S DISCOVERIES
Very little of what I have done, has been made
known by the press. Yet I could not read, without some
surprise, your article of the 15th; as some account of
my discoveries was given lasl November in the Globe,
and in newspapers of Philadelphia, Boston, &c., one of
which is now before me, containing an editorial article
headed, "Wonderful Revelation concerning the Func-
tions of the Brain," based upon experiments which had
been made last spring. These experiments occupied the
whole ground of Phrenology-more than doubled the
number of distinct organs, and established propositions
in Physiology and Therapeutics, of much more import-
ance than the Phrenological doctrines which had been
thus established.
When discoveries of such magnitude came into my
possession, I felt eager to establish them immediately,
by crossing the Atlantic and making them known in
London and Paris. The propriety, however, of perfect-
~ng my discoveries, as far as possible, has induced me to
remain thus long quietly engaged in their prosecution,
and in preparing for the press an exposition of what I
have done.
During this time, some newspaper notices have ap-
peared in reference to my experiments; but the greater
part of what I have been doing, is unknown to the pub-
lic. I felt assured, that while thus remaining in compar-
ative obscurity, others would undertake such operations
as I had been engaged in: but regarding the discovery of
cerebral excitability, as a trivial matter, compared with
the science arising from it, I felt willing that others
should attract the public mind to their own operations in
this way, ~f any ~houl.d be attempted, and directed my
efforts to 1mprovmg, mstead of propagating the science.
Hence, it is not yet known to the scientific world
'
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 43
that discoveries have been made, showing what are the
psychological, and what are the physiological functions
of the brain, to such an extent, as to make it requisite to
substitute the term ....
Veurology (science of the nervous
substance) for Phrenology (science of the mind.) Were
the functions of the brain exclusively mental, Phrenology
would be sufficient: but the corporeal are as important
as the mental functions which it manifests. Neurology
is the only admissible name for this department of sci-
ence; as Cephalology and Cerebrology, beside being
new and uncouth names, would be incorrect; because
the whole mass of nervous matter, within and without
the cranium, is concerned in the manifestations of mind
and life. Neurology, is, indeed, a comprehensive term;
and, in its fullest range of meaning, as applied to man,
is almost as comprehensive a word, as Anthropology.
To this science, I have invited public attention, and
the investigation of the scientific. Having given demon-
strations before the Board of Managers of the Louisville
Medical Institute, that body, satisfied of the reality of
the science, adopted a resolution requesting three of the
professors, (occupying the chairs of Anatomy, the Insti-
tutes, and the Theory and Practice,) to investigate the
facts of Neurology, as taught by myself, and report to
them upon the utility of the Science in the practice of
medicine. One of the gentlemen, having been too
closely engaged during the session in the duties of the
Anatomical department, to admit of his engaging in any
thing else whatever, the investigation has not yet com-
menced.
"\Vhat Neurology is, will soon be illustrated by a
small work which I am now preparing for the press ;
giving the outlines of the new science, and especially
of its psychological portion. The results of my labors,
·14. SKETCHES OF BUCll .\ ~ A~ 's DISCO\'EHI ES
while they elucidate Physiology, and revolutionize the
details of Phrenology, throw a brilliant light upon the
phenomena of Animal Magnetism.
To this subject, I must now allude, in consequence
of the following paragraph in your editorial article :
"These accounts inform us, that Dr. B. and Mr. P.,
declare themselves as having nothing to do with what is
called 1\iesmerism. But they might just as well tell us,
that they have nothing to do with Phrenology, or the
brain. The truth is, they are afraid of the stigma which
has been cast upon this name, and hence their dis·
claimers."
.l\Iy name is here associated with that of lVIr. P., of
whom I know nothing beyond the statement of the news-
paper, which represents him as repeating my experi-
ments. Answering for myself, I would remark, that I
have not been engaged in making experiments upon sub-
jects in a magnetic or somnolent condition, but solely
upqn persons in their natural condition.
Those who know me, will not suspect me of thus en-
deavoring to avoid any stigma, which an unenlightened
and tyrannical public sentiment may fix upon the vota~
ries of science, for seeking prohibited knowledge. I
honor the cultivators of Animal Magnetism, as the in·
trepid leaders and benefactors of their race ; and had I
not a peculiar line of investigation for myself at this
time, I would be actively engaged in the daily investi-
gation of that subject. But let me beg to be held re-
sponsible for my own language alone, and not for what
may be said about me. Let me, then, say to you, what
I have been repeatedly compelled to say in "defining my
position."
Disregarding the very meaning of the word Neurolo-
gy, and probably unacquainted with its derivation, ig-
IN CEREBHAL PHYSIOLOGY . 45
norant scoffers would repeat that this science was noth-
ing more than the old story of Animal Magnetism, clair-
voyance, &c.; others would assert that it was totally un-
like-both confounding the science of Neurology with the
experiments by which it was demonstrated. Some, by
a singular combination of scepticism and credulity,
were even led to adopt the laughable theory, that I pro-
duced the wonderful results of my experiments by the
mere power of my will, controlling every one whom I
approached! and compelling them to feel such emotion3
as I willed them to experience ! !
Such notions being afloat, I have been compelled to
express myself frequently, in public and in private, in
something like the following manner.
Neurology is a comprehensive science, including all
the phenomena of mind and body. The Animal Mag-
netists, are engaged in cultivating one department of this
seience, which is rich in wonders. Their results, al-
though they seem incredible, are established by unan-
swerable testimony; and, therefore, must be received.
The experiments which I am performing, are different,
as they are simply designed to illustrate the ordinary or
normal functions, and the pathology of the human mind
and body. 1\fy operations aim at utility, by explaining
the machinery of life, and the powers of each organ :
those of Animal Magnetism, develope extraordinary or
transcendental phenomena, by the joint influence of two
or more individuals. The phenomena thus developed
are mysterious and wonderful; and, indeed, we seem in
a fair way to realize through these operations, that" truth
is strange-stranger than fiction."
The present may well be called an important era.
About fifty years 5ince, the revolution commenced which
is now in progress. Instead of the Mental Philosophy
46 SKETCHES OF BUClUNAN' s DlSCOVERlES
of former days, which was separated from Physiology,
and was therefore a crude, inaccurate and u5eless system,
Dr. Gall gave us the science of Phrenology, in which
l\'lental Philosophy, by connecting itself with the con•
genial science of Physiology, became rational and use·
ful. This constitutes the first great era of Anthro·
pology.
In the present day, Phrenology, blending into a per-
fect union with the whole of Physiology, and extending
its jurisdiction over the phenomena of Animal Magnet-
ism, comes forth with a dignity, a demonstrable certain·
ty, and an importance which were before unknown, and
bids fair, under the title of Neurology, to originate great·
er blessings to mankind, than were ever anticipated by
its illustrious founder, Dr. Gall.
To all who engage in this great work,. I would say,
the field is ample enough for a million of laborers ; and
should our countrymen take the lead, and maintain it as
we have begun, we may make the amplest return for the
stores of medical· and philosophic knowle.dge which we
have derived from the land of our ancestors.
los. R. BucHANAK.
Louisville) Ky., Feb. 22, 1842.
DR. BucHANAN's ExPERil\IENTS.!;\1:-vVhat a feast of
\vonders should we have to spread before old Cotton
l\'Iather, of Witchcraft memory, could he, at this day, re-
visit this breathing world. He would, it is true, miss
his witches, his phantom-ships, his ghosts, and hobgob·
lins ; but still, we think, he would be at no loss for rna·
terials for another volume of his "Magnalia." At least,
• From the Louisville Journal ofDecemher 1,1841.
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 47
if he would happen along this way about these times,
Dr. Buchanan could show him some things which would
throw almost any chapter of his book of "wonderful
things" into the shade. He would confess, on attending
one of the Doctor's lectures, and witnessing some of his
wonderful experiments in "Neurology," (as he styles
the science,) that there were yet things in heaven and
earth, which had not been dreamt of even in his phi-
losophy.
We would not exactly class the Doctor's science with
witchcraft and hobgoblinism, though it seems to be quite
as marvellous as either; for the fact. of his having made
converts of some of the most intelligent of our citizens,
would dispose us, aside from our own observations, to
believe there is something in the matter worthy, for its
novelty at least, the attention of the curious. Having
several times witnessed his experiments, we are willing,
without pretending to account for their results in any
way, to give Dr. Buchanan the benefit of our observa-
tions, by stating what we saw.
vVe have seen Dr. Buchanan experiment on different
persons, and on several different occasions; but by far
the most satisfactory of all vve saw, were some experi-
ments made upon Mrs. G., the very intelligent lady of
one of our principal merchants. We called on .Mrs. G.,
with Dr. B., on two different occasions. The first time,
the experiments were performed in the presence of sev-
eral witnesses besides ourselves ; the second time, only
the husband of the lady and a female friend were pres-
ent. 'Ve will begin with the first evening.
'Vhen we entered the sitting-room, :Mrs. G. was com-
plaining of a slight pain in the head, accomp~nied ;'"it~
n feeling of great languor. Her countenance also mdi-
cated this. She remarked to Dr. B., "she feared that,
48 SKETCHES OF BUCH ANAN's DISCO V ERIES
in consequence of her indisposition, he would find her,
that evening, a very bad subject." He replied, good-hu-
moredly, that "he \vould cure her headache for her;"
and asked her in what part of the head the pain was lo-
cated. She replied, in her forehead; placing her hand
upon the spot where the pain seemed to centre. The
Doctor then commenced rubbing her forehead lightly
with his hands, passing them rapidly from the middle
(v.rhere the pain was) around the temples. He .had not
continued this more than half a minute, before the lady
declared that the pain had wholly ceased ; and it did not
return during the evening. The Doctor then told us, in
writing, that he would attempt to rouse her spirits, which
still seemed very much depressed, by exciting the organs
of combativeness; and, accordingly, placed his fingers
upon those organs. In five or six minutes, there was a
very perceptible change in her countenance. The list-
less, languid air had entirely disappeared, and had given
place to an expression entirely its opposite. Perceiving
so great an apparent change, the company interrogated
her as to the occupation of her thoughts, and her present
frame of mind. She said her mind was running upon
marches and martial music; that she could dwell with
great interest upon battles. and should like, of all things,
to see one. She seemed to feel a high degree of cour-
age ; her voice and manner indicated boldness and de-
CiSion. She said " she felt as if born to command·"
and she looked, as well as a delicate lady could, the fe~l­
ing. When asked ~y Dr. B. if the influence she seemed
to be under was favorable to obedience, she replied
"that it would produce disobedience:" upon which, her
husband, jocosely remarked to the Doctor, "that he must
stop that: it was a fault he did not wish to see increased
in her." Her child cried a moment in the adJ'oinino-
"
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY . 49
room. She started as if to go to it; and, when asked
what she was going for, she said "to whip the nurse."
She was asked if there were to be a mob in the street,
how she would act. "I would go out and see them,"
said she. " Suppose they were about to break into the
house," said the Doctor, "how then?" "I would lock
the door, stand outside, and tell them they could enter
only ov_er my dead body:" and her voice, attitude, and
whole manner, were in unison with her words.
Dr. Buchanan then told us, in writing, that he would
endeavor to excite the antagonist organ, benevolence;
and immediately placed his hand upon that organ. In a
few seconds, the determined expression of her counten-
ance relaxed, and she settled back in her chair, apparent·
ly calm and subdued. Dr. B. asked her how she would
like to see a battle, or be engaged in one? "Oh! not
at all," said she, "I would rather go about and bind up
the wounded." When asked how she would act in case
a mob was breaking into the house, she said: "I should
just let them do as they pleased, and make ·no kind of
resistance." Dr. B., intimated privately, to her hus-
band, that he was sure Mrs. G. would soon commence
thinking or speaking of a certain charitable society,
about which she had been engaged during the day. She
did so. In a few moments, when interrogated as to the
subject of her thoughts, she spoke of the "Provident So-
ciety" and the "Episcopal Orphan Asylum;" for one of
which, she had been endeavoring to obtain money that
day.
One of the company, then requested Doctor B., in
writing, to excite her organ of number, or calculation.
I~e placed his hand upon that organ; and very soon
asked her what were her thoughts. She answered, she
G
\
50 SKETCHES OF BUCliAl'iAN 's DISCOVERIES
\Vas counting over, in her mind, the amount of money
she had collected that day for the "Orphans' Asylum."
"I don't know how nwny houses we went to, said she,
but we collected only six dollars." She said she felt a
strong inclination to count, and added, she should like
to be counting money. Doctor Buchanan gave her a
handful of small change, which she counted over and
over repeatedly, with seemingly a childish fondness for
the employment.
'Ve intended to notice also some other experiments
performed by Dr. Buchanan, the same evening; but shall
be compelled to defer to another day, an account of
them, as well as of the experiments of the second even-
ing, upon the same individual. Meanwhile, we subjoin
a continuation of the experiments reported by the Doc.
tor himself.
After I had waked Miss--, Miss R. desired to un-
dergo an experiment, and I attempted putting her to
sleep. Although her vitality and wakefulness were pret-
ty well overcome, I do not believe that she was at any
time entirely asleep. She sat motionless, with her eyes
closed, like one with a partial and dreamy conscious-
ness. Some of the company supposed her asleep ; but
when I terminated the operation, she was, although much
exhausted or debilitated, still conscious, and capable of
speaking in a low voice. I restored her; but, for some
time, she felt singular sensations, resulting from the pro-
cess through ·which she had been conducted.
A few days afterwards, Mr. M., of Maysville, called
upon me to see if I could produce upon him any of the
effects which he had heard of my producing upon the la-
dies. I attempted the experiment for producing sleep,
IN CEHEBR.\L PHYSIOLOGY . 51
with such an effect, that he had no doubt it would, if
continued, frequently produce sleep. But as he had
been liable to apoplectic attacks, I discontinued the ope-
ration before it had gone any great length-revived him,
and whispered to .Mr. F., who came with him, that I
would set 1\ir. 1\i. to s\vallowing. In a short time the
swallowing occurred repeatedly; and he felt the influence
upon his throat. Some other unimportant operations
were performed; and he retired, well satisfied.
A week or two after this, a party was assembled at
the house of lVIr. A., and I gave them a short lecture
upon the subject; after which, I proposed to try some
experiments. The company being rather large, the back-
wardness of the ladies prevented my obtaining suitable
subjects of experiment. There were some suitable con-
stitutions present ; but the persons could not be per-
suaded to participate in an experiment. I endeavored
to introduce the matter, by trying a young gentleman,
who, although not a good subject, might, I supposed, feel
a little effect. I excited the top, and then the base of
the brain. He described some of the effects in himself,
such as usually result from these operations; but they
were not very important.
I then chose a gentleman (.Mr. H.) of sound, vigor-
ous frame, in whom I thought it probable that a more
distinct effect ,"vould occur. I operated upon those or-
gans of the head, which determine excitements to the
arms and hands. He had heard previously of my experi-
ment upon l\Ir. A., and was probably prepared in his
mind against any effect being produced on himself. He
denied, for a while, that any effect was produced; then
admitted, that, if there was any difference, the hand
which I had been trying to excite, had a little more sen·
sibility. I was a little disappointed in the result not be·
52 SKETCIIB'S OJI BU C HA~AN 's DlSCO V ERl E~
ing more marked; but, the experiment being conclude?,
in the course of the evening, the matter was agani
brought to our notice by l\1r. H., who complained con-
siderably of the feelings in his arms, which had been pro-
duced by my operations, and which lasted some hours.
Pain, is a very unequivocal matter, and much more easily
perceived than a slight difference in the sense of touch.
The arms, however, could not have been excited through
the brain to a painful extent, without modifying their
tactile sensibility rriore than Mr. H. perceived or de-
scribed.
I could probably have accomplished nothing more
upon this occasion, but for the laudable example of a
lady, well known for her intellectual powers and conver·
sational talent, with whom I undertook the next experi·
ment. I attempted, as in Mr. H., to excite the two
hands in a different manner, increasing the sensibility
of the left hand in touch. The effect was displayed by
her remark, that to the left hand things felt coarser or
thicker than to her right. The sensations of the arms
were also very marked. The excitement of the left be·
came oppressive and painful; it felt sore; as if it had
been bruised, or had been over.fatigued. The right arm
experienced some loss of sensibility, and felt as if the
flow of blood to it was diminished; the left, as if the
blood had accumulated in it. I remarked, then, to Pro-
fessor Y., in a whisper, that I could change the condition
of the two arms; bringing them to a: balance, by with-
drawing the excitement and determination from the left,
and stimulating the right. Mrs. F., who did not know
what I was aiming at, soon remarked that the oppression
of the left arm was diminished, and the right arm was
changing its condition, or becoming excited like the left.
As soon as she pronounced them to be in the same con·
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOG Y. 63
clition, 1 discontinued the operation. The left arm, hav·
ing been much longer under excitement than the right,
retained the effects or soreness much longer after I dis-
continued the operation; and did not recover its natural
condition until the next morning. During the night, the
same sensation of numbness, and a lingering effect of
the soreness, were distinctly perceived.
The experiments just described, had been previously
performed upon .Mr. A., at my room. It was the first
time that I attempted to operate upon him ; and, finding
that his organs of feeling and touch were very large, I
attempted, at the close of my lecture, to excite the facul-
ties in his left hand, while I diminished their activity in
the right. For some ten minutes, no sensible effect oc·
curred, Mr. A. being a gentleman of large, vigorous
frame. I continued the operation; and, presently, he an·
nounced that he could feel better with his left ; that
some things felt coarser to his left hand than to his right.
This, being distinctly perceived, showed that the sense of
touch was modified; and I then felt sure that I had suc-
ceeded with all the manual senses: to ascertain twhich,
we first tried the thermal sense. A glass of water was
brought him; and by feeling its coldness \vith each hand
in succession,, or by wetting his finger to feel the cold·
ness of the water, he found that there was a very distinct
difference between the power of the hvo hands to per·
ceive cold. The left, felt the coldness more sensibly.
I then tried the electric sense. I set an electro-magnetic
machine in motion, and he placed the thumb and fingers
of one hand so near, as to have a current or succession
of shocks pass through the hand. The left, could per·
ceive this current, much more distinctly than the right.
At the close of one of my public lectures, (to illus·
trate my doctrine,) I proposed an experiment upon l\Ir.
54 ~KET CHES OF BUUIL\N.AN1
S DISCO't"EHIES
F., for the purpose of influencing his hands. F. is a
steamboat captain, of tolerably vigorous frame; but, hav-
ing the organs of the different species of manual sensi-
bility largely developed, I presumed that I might excite
them. In about ten or fifteen minutes, he perceived
quite a difference in their powers of feeling and touch.
Objects felt much coarser to pne hand than to the other.
Afterwards, with my class, I repeated this operation upon
1\Ir. F. with success.
For decisive and convincing experiments, I prefer to
operate upon some of the extern;i senses, because few
persons could be mistaken in reference'·to them. Opera-
tions upon the mind, or feelings, are not always de-
scribed with sufficient precision, because few are accus-
tomed to scanning, with accuracy, their thoughts or emo·
tions; and it is, therefore, necessary to produce a power-
ful effect, before we can get a good description. It is
necessary, too, that we should produce an effect suffi-
ciently strong, to change the expression of the counten-
ance; and, it is desirable, that the subject operated
upon, should not know what faculty we intend to excite.
Under these circumstances, l have recently made
some of the most satisfactory experiments, that we can
possibly conceive.
DR. BucHANAN's ExPERIME~Ts-coNTINUED.-We re-
sume, to-day, our sketch of Dr. Buchanan's experiments
in Neurology, which we commenced in yesterday's paper.
We begin where we left off.
After Dr. B. had gone through these experiments on
Mrs. G., the gentlemen, of whom there were four or five
present, insisted on his attempting some experiments on
them; which the Doctor consented to do, premising that
1~ CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY , 55
he might fail to succeed, as he had not yet ascertained
that any of them were good subjects. The company de-
signated our friend, Capt. --,for the Doctor to begin
upon, and requested that he would put him to sleep.
The Doctor commenced upon Capt.--, by placing one
hand upon his forehead, and the other upon the front part
of the head, on the top. In this position, the operator
kept his hands from three to five minutes. He then re-
moved them, and commenced passing his fingers gently
from the forehead along the temples, and down each side
of the face, touching the hair all the time. After a lapse
of five or eight minutes, Capt -- began to show signs
of drowsiness, and in ten or fifteen minutes, in spite of
the utmost exertions to throw it off, in which he was not
a little aided by the rest of .the company, who were con-
tinually talking to him, and about him, he was nodding
in his chair, perfectly unconscious of everything around
him. vVe questioned him, repeatedly, after he began to
manifest signs of drowsiness, as to his feelings; and he
invariably answered that he felt an irresistible disposition
to go to sleep-that it seemed impossible for him to keep
awake, &c. And all this, while he looked the perfect
picture of sleep.
'Ve believe that Dr. Buchanan does not pretend that
this was the ]}1esmeric sleep; for we have never heard
that he has as yet attempted anything in the line of what
is strictly known as .Lliesmerism, or Animal lHagnetism.
The sleep, into which he threw Capt. --,seemed to be
an easy and natural sleep, from which any one might
readily have aroused him. The Captain awoke, after a
few moments; but he still seemed much disposed to
sleep. The Doctor, therefore, proposed, for the purpose
of arousing him thoroughly, to excite the organ of com-
batiYenf'ss ; which he accordingly did. The effect on
56 SKETCHES OF BUCIIA~AN ' s DISCOVERIES
Capt. --, was remarkable. His countenance, which
had before been the very picture of languor, sleep, and
lethargy, now assumed a determined and resolute expres
sion; and, when interrogated as to the nature of his feel-
ings, he said he felt as though he wished to accomplish
some great object, though he did not know exactly what
-that he felt resolute for some achievement. This
closed the experiments of the evening.
vVe will now give the result of the observations of
our second visit to Mrs. G., with Dr. Buchanan. vVe
first requested the Doctor to excite hunger and thirst. It
was then about three o'clock, P. M. The request was
made in writing. The Doctor replied (also in writing)
that he would endeavor to do so; at the same time, mis-
leading her imagination; and while he placed his hand
upon the requisite organs, he endeavored to lead her to
suppose, by requesting us to feel of her pulse, that he
w~s attempting to change the tone of her pulse. In a
few moments, she complained of thirst, and asked for a
glass of water; which was, accordingly, brought her.
The Doctor then wrote, with a pencil, that he would
excite in her the love of country; and placed his hand
upon the organ which, in his system, is assigned to that
emotion. Her countenance almost immediately assum-
ed a very grave cast; and, when questioned as to ·the na-
ture of her thoughts, she replied-They had gone back
many, many years; that she was thinking of England,
her scenery, her institutions, her glory, and her great-
ness. \Ve ascertained from her husband a fact, which
we did not know before, that she is a native of England..
'tVe then made, in order to try her, some disparaging re-
marks on England; and in doing so, came near making
her quite angry.
Dr. ·B. then told us. in writing, he would excite an
DT CERERRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 57
organ which he had himself recently discovered, and
which he had named "playfulness!" said he had never
attempted it on 1\Irs. G., hut that, as he found the organ
large in her head, he presumed he should be successful.
She had heretofore been quite grave; but now she be-
came lively and playful, and commenced laughing, though
we could not perceive at what. vVhen asked what she
Yvas laughing at. she replied-at her own feelings; that
she was thinking she should dearly love to take a good
romp; that she should like a romp with lVIr. G., her
husband.
The Doctor then wrote down the names of several
organs, and told us to designate which we would have
excited. vVe pointed to Philoprogenitiveness, (love of
offspring.) The Doctor wrote. that the organ was very
large in her, and that he could probably send her to look
after her child; and his hand had been on her head scarcely
half a minute, before she begged we would excuse her a
moment, while she went to look after her child: and she
immediately went out of the room to look after her child
in the next.
'Ve next requested the Doctor to excite the organ of
tune. He placed his hand upon that organ; and, in a
few moments, when asked what she was thinking of. she
replied that she was following the notes of a tune which
some one was playing in the room above, and which we
could faintly hear. Her husband then requested Dr. B., ·
(these communications were always made in writing,)
to aive a martial turn to the music. Presently she said
b
she was running over in her mind the l\Iarseilles hymn.
1\Ir. G. then desired him to give a domestic turn to the
music; and in a moment she said she was singing
"Home, sweet home." The Doctor then placed one hand
upon the organ of philoprogenitiveness. keeping thr
G
58 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN' S DISCOVERIES
other still upon tune, and presently she said she was
singing, "Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber." In
fact, her head, during all these experiments, seemed to
respond to the touch of the Doctor's hand as promptly
as the keys of a piano to the hand of a skilful performer.
In our account of these experiments we have confined
ourselves .to a mere statement of what we ourselves saw;
without pretending to give any explanation of the facts.
NEuRotoGY.-The article on Neurology, containing
the experiments of Dr. Buchanan of this city, deserves
attention. \Ve were present on the occasion, saw the
effects, and prepared an article to accompany the fol-
lowing copied from the Advertiser, but must omit it for
want of room.-Baptist Banner.
The singular philosophical developments, made in
the article published in the Advertiser by Dr. Buchanan,
a few days since, upon the subject of his discoveries
in Neurological science, have excited much attention
throughout the country. The most respectable and in-
fluential of our eastern exchanges, have taken the subject
in hand; and even those which are most cautious in be-
lieving any of the thousand new and strange theories
with which this age abounds, have paused before ven-
turing to question the truth of this, substantiated as it is
by evidence of successful experiments, in which collu-
sion or deception were out of the question. That the
discoveries which Dr. Buchanan professes to have made
are startling, nay, bordering on the marvellous and im-
probable, is true; -but that he has succeeded, in number-
less instances, ':ithin the past few weeks, in producing
the results descnbed, cannot be denied. 1\Ien may com-
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 69
bat abstract theories and quibble about points in meta-
physics, forever, and reasonably refuse to be convinced:
but actual experiments and clear results, brought home
to the senses and the judgment, force conviction upon
skepticism itself.
Having had but little leisure to attend Dr. Buchanan's
Lectures and witness his experiments; and b:ing, with-
al, not overstocked with 'marvellousness,' we have re-
frained from any very particular account of his proceed-
ings; and shall wait until we know much more of the
matter, before we surrender, or attempt to explain "the
why and the wherefore" of his brain-ological achieve-
ments. The only experiments we have witnessed, took
place on Thursday evening at the residence of 1\ir. E-,
in the presence of a company of intelligent ladies and
gentlemen, most of whom had never witnessed an at-
tempt of the kind, and were skeptical upon the subject.
The first subject experimented upon, was a young lady,
in good health, but of a delicate constitution, who was
also a stranger to Dr. Buchanan, and his art. It will be
necessary only to notice those experiments attended by
the most marked results.
The first operation produced drowsiness-a fullness
of the head-heaviness of the eyelids-in a few minutes
she complained of an inclination to sleep; and in spite
of the raillery and efforts on the part of the company to
keep her awake, she was nod<ing in her chair, with her
eyes closed, like one incapable of being roused. Dr.
n., subsequently, wrote on a piece of paper, which he
handed to the company, that he would excite the organs
of "playfulness, mirth," &c. In one minute, she ex-
pressed a desire to dance, (though of a. religious and
contemplative cast of mind.) Doctor B. then tried the
organ of "tune," (writing his intention before each
'
60 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN's DISCOVIB:lES
change of his hands;) when she preferred music with
her dancing, and felt like playing lively pieces. The
Doctor then changed to martial music; when she instant·
ly expressed a preference for that species of music over
all others-drums, fifes, marches, &c. Another change
to the "sympathetic and kind," produced a strong desire
to sing for the benefit of orphans-to soothe the afflicted,
&c. Doctor B. produced thirst: then wrote on a paper
that he would cause her to prefer "toddy" to all other
drinks. In less than a minute, being questioned whether
:;;he desired \Vater, wine, hard-cider or brandy, she replied
neither, but thought a glass of toddy would snit her best.
The success of this experiment was complete; but what
sort of an organ, the Doctor found in the head of a lady,
who is both a te-tolaller and a Whig, which caused her to
prefer toddy to water or hard-cider, we leave unexplained.
Doctor B. now tried similar experiments upon an-
other lady, and by the same course of pressure and fric-
tion upon sl:Jch sections of the brain as he wished to ex·
cite, produced like results. Reverence was excited, and
she desired to read the bible-;felt religious-thought
that children, under the influence of such a feeling,
would be mere devout-would like to go to church.
Combativeness was excited ; when she said she felt un-
pleasant-had no desire to go to church-would quarrel
·with her children and beat them. JJJirthfulness was
brought into action; when 1
she expressed a desire to be
in a ball-room, or to go to the theatre-felt ''full of play
and fun"-had no disposition, either to flog the children
or go to church; but preferred gay company. Calcula-
tion, roused a desire to study geography, and arithmetic ;
would like figures better than any thing else; thought of
the time she learned the multiplication table, and how
easy she could repeat it now. Doctor B. changed his
•
IN CEHEBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 61
hands to philoprogenitivcness. She was silent--spoke
not when addressed, though the agony depicted in her
countenance, plainly told that she was the victim of
powerful and painful emotions. The experiment was
suspended-and after reviving, she stated that the recol-
lection of the death and funeral of some of her children,
and the sickness of others, some time since, had rushed
so suddenly and strongly upon her mind, as to deprive
her of the power of utterance, and produce feelings of
distressing faintness. Other experiments were made,
plainly showing that the different portions of the brain
can be, by friction and pressure, excited to increased ac-
·tivity, producing an unusual manifestation of the pas-
sions or feelings of which they are, according to phreno-
logical dicta, the organs. Such are a few of the facts.
Let physiologists, metaphysicians, wonder-workers and
believers in marvels, make the most of them. \Ve shall
recur to the subject, and perhaps speak of the useful pur-
poses proposed to be attained by the cultivation of this
new branch of science.
NEUROLOGY. *-The Cincinnati Republican enquired,
some days since, what had become of our JVeurologist;
and other cotemporaries have manifested a similar wag-
gish curiosity upon the subject. vVe can enlighten
them. Dr. Buchanan is still in this city, assiduously
engaged in repeating his experiments-perfecting the
science of ...1\'eurology, and applying it to its true pur-
poses-the treatment of disease.
Some of our brother editors, as well as many with
whom we have conversed, even here, do not seem to
• Fwm the Louisville Public Advertiser, December 10, 1811.
62 ~KETCHES OF BUCIIANAN
1
8 DlSCOVEIUE1J
know what l'leurology is. No longer since than \Ved·
nesday evening, a medical student informed us that ho
had all along regarded it as none other than the veritable
science of .Aiesmerism, or Animal .Alagnctism; and was
quite astonished on learning that Neurology was merely
the Physiology of the J)lervous System; and that the sin-
gular experiments in which Dr. B. has been engaged, are
designed to show the functions of every part of the ner·
vous mass contained in the he~d, by exciting that part,
by external irritation, in such a manner, as to cause a
distinct manifestation of its peculiar properties, whether
mental or corporeal.
Those who recognize Phrenology as a true science;
(and who does not?) who understand the mysterious
operation of the mind, upon the whole nervous system,
through the medium of its organ, or mass of organs, the
brain; and who are aware how readily the different or·
gans of the brain can be recognized, classified, and their
volume defined by exterior examination, can, with readi-
ness, comprehend the whole secret of Dr. Buchanan's
operations ; which consist merely, in exciting any or-
gan, or combination of organs, to greater activity, by op·
erating with the fingers, upon that portion of the skull
under which they are located. Hunger, thirst, anger, be·
nevolence, vision, muscular strength, hearing, &c., may
be readily excited in this way. Mesmerism, with its
mysterious manipulations, its passes, its clairvoyant con·
ditions, its magnetic states and transmissions of mental
power and ubiquity, all operating independent of con-
tact, no more resemble the science of Neurology, as de-
fined and exemplified by Dr. B., than the practice of the
faith doctors does the regular practice of medicine.
When our neighbors come to give the matter a "sober
second thought," and witness a tithe of the experiments
I~ CEREBRAL PHVSIOJ,OGV. 63
which Dr. B. has made in Louisville, in the presence of
hundreds, and upon all classes of subjects, we shall ex-
pect to find them more warm in their commendations
than we have been. 'Ne are a skeptical people in Lou-
isville, in mutters of this kind, and yield to nothing
which is not sustained by unquestionable philosophical
<.lemonstrutions, heard and seen by ourselves. On Tues-
<.luy evening lust, Dr. B. made a series of experiments, in
the presence of a large company, which produced striking
results. Two ladies, acquaintances and friends, were
seated near each other, and in great good humor and
buoyancy of spirits, awaited the operation. Dr. B.
placed a hand on the head of each, upon the organ,
culled by the French phrenologists, "the love of power."
In a few minutes, a scene was "got up," at once singu-
lar and amusing. Each bridled up with an air of dignity
and self-conceit, and Mrs. H., when asked by Dr. B.,
""\Vhut are you thinking of now," replied, ""\Vhy, I am
thinking that I feel very proud." To the same question,
1\Iiss G., after a scornful silence, and its repetition, re-
plied that she was astonished that .Mrs. H. should talk of
being proud. 1\Irs. H. turned with a look of defiance
and demanded, "Have not I us much to be proud of us
you?" A cutting retort followed-each asserted her su-
perior claim to beauty, good temper, refinement, obedi-
ence, &c., with a spirit and bitterness of tone and car-
riage, which those who have witnessed such scenes iu
neighborhood squabbles, where faces are wont to be
scratched, caps torn, and tongues let loose, can so well
imagine. Apprehending results of too striking a char-
acter, one of the company advised the Doctor to cull a
constable; but he hastily dissipated the ' belligerent ex-
citement, and begun to arouse their moral sentiments.
Their angry glances soon ceased-they became modest,
{j4 !':KET CHES OF BUCHANAN ' s DISCOVERIES
complaisant, and humble; and on being reminded of the
part they had acted, each began to make apologies, and
ask pardon of the other. Each was animated in her ex-
pressions of regret, and would accept no apology; in-
sisting that she only \Vas in fault; and so affected was
one of them, that she burst into tears. To counteract
this effect, the excitement of the moral organs was slight-
ly diminished, while mirthfulness, playfulness, social
feeling were stimulated. A striking change succeeded;
she became highly elated, laughed, and soon proposed a
dance with a gentleman present, (the husband of 1\Irs.
G.) springing upon her feet with infinite self-satisfaction.
All this time, 1\Trs. G. sat quiet, melancholy and de-
jected; laboring under the serious feelings which had
been called up to subdue her pride. She seriously ob-
jected to her husband dancing-as very unbecoming-a
vain and improper amusement-particularly, for one of
his age. Mrs. H., being in a fine humor, submitted to
her disappointment with a good grace, and the dance
was suspended, while the Doctor commenced exciting
the same mirthful organs in Mrs. G. It was amusing to
witness the change of her language and expression of
countenance, as the dancing spirit came upon her. She
began to admit that dancing 1night be proper in some
cases-thought it a very becoming amusement-particu-
larly for old people-liked to see people dance-would
like to dance herself. She was reminded of her former
objections, but was unwilling to acknowledge them; as
such were not her real sentiments. She, \Vith great
earnestness, urged 1\irs. H. to dance with her husband,
to convince Dr. B. how highly she approved of dancing.
Other results were produced, which will be noticed to-
morrow, as well as similar experiments on vVednesday
evening.
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. (j[)
NEUROLOGY.-vVe have but little space to devote to
this subject to-day; but propose to occupy it with a brief
notice of the continuation of Dr. Buchanan's experi-
ments, after producing the results described yesterday.
The attempt to excite hunger was made upon .1\Irs. H.,
while her attention was led by conversation to other sub-
jects. She very soon asked for food, which being given
her, she began her repast with a fine relish; but on the
organ of thirst and love of strong drink being excited,
she became indifferent to her food, and asked for
wine; then for something stronger. Strong whiskey was
brought, which she tasted, and declared to be too weak;
complaining that it was mostly water. This result was
more striking; as in her ordinary condition, all kinds of
strong drink are exceedingly repugnant to her taste.
Mrs. G. had, during this experiment, joined the com-
pany in ridiculing and reproving Mrs. H., for her love of
strong drink. Doctor B. threatened to produce the same
effect upon herself; but she denied the possibility of his
doing so, and declared that nothing on earth could induce
her to drink whiskey. In a few minutes after the com-
mencement of the operation, .;she desired drink: water
being brought, she refused it-then wanted a glass of
lemonade--then a lemonade with a little brandy in it-
then nw1·e brandy-then pure brandy. Finally, she con-
cluded that whiskey vvas quite a genteel drink, and very
proper for ladies. A wine glass, perhaps half full of
proof whiskey, was given her, when she complained of
its weakness: but after some hesitation, on account of
her fear of ridicule, she watched her opportunity, and
when she thought herself unobserved, swallowed the
whole at a draught. Hunger was excited, with similar
It -
A varietv of other interesting experiments were
resu s. Cl. J
H
()() SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN ' S DISCOVERIES
tried upon the same lady; and it was amusing to witness
the sudden transitions, "from grave to gay, from lively to
severe," which took place in her manners, appearance
and conversation, as her brain answered, like a well
tuned piano, to the touches of the operator's fingers.
Into whatever mood she was thrown, from three to ten
minutes were sufficient to change the current of her
thoughts and language into another channel; perhaps,
ludicrously inconsistent with the former. At one time
she would abuse her husband like a termagant, claiming
superiority, and treating him as if unworthy of her; and
immediately after, express the deepest contrition for her
conduct, and speak of him with affection, as her supe-
rior, &c.
The organs of tune and mirthfulness were operated
upon with success-the tone of conversation and con-
duct, on the part of the two subjects, following the
changes of Dr. B's hands from one organ to another,
with remarkable precision and fidelity; both being un-
conscious of the effects which he intended to produce.
Another fact is worthy of notice; which is, that after the
dissipation of the effects of most of the experiments,
particularly the most striking ones, they forgot and stren-
uously denied all they had said or done; but an excite-
ment of memory restored the facts to recollection.
Doctor B. closed the experiments, by putting :Mrs. G.
into a sound sleep in five minutes; from which she was
with some difficulty awakened.
So much again on the subject of i.Veumlogy. That the
results described, were produced, cannot be denied : that
there has been collusion or any deception practised upon
the hundreds of intelligent witnesses, who have seen and
heard, will not be pretended. vVe present the facts
leaving Doctors of Physic and Doctors of Divinity, t~
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 67
settle this new question concerning the mysterious rela-
tion between physical and intellectual being.
MEl\10RIAL
To THE HoN. BoARD OF MANAGERS OF THE LouiSVILLE MED-
ICAL INSTITUTE-PRESENTED DECEMBER 18, 1841.
Gentlemen: As the progress of Medical Science can-
not be to you a matter of indifference, but must excite
your lively interest, I am induced to lay before you a
statement of those philosophical discoveries which I
have recently been making; the result of which, will ere
long, prove to be an important change, or re-organization
of medical science, both in its philosophical principles
and in the treatment of disease.
Having commenced in your city th.e formal presenta-
tion of the Sciel'lce of Neurology, (influenced ~y the
consideration that this is almost as my native spot,) I
would wish before going abroad, to secure the favor-
vorable notice of those whose official station may author-
ize them to notice and to decide upon matters of grave
·
importance, that concern, not only the medical profes-
sion, but the public welfare.
The scope of my researches embraces the final settle-
ment of the most important propositions that Physiology
needs, to make it a complete and satisfactory Science.
They aim to develope the true laws of the human econo-
my-a series of laws heretofore unknown.
Amid the confusion of theories and contradictory
plans of practice ; amid the controversies of medical
partizans, the vagaries of enthusiastic advocates for
particular theories, and the skepticism of the class who
doubt the certainty of all medical principles, we still find
a distinct acknowledgment by all, of the fact, that their
68 SKETCHE-S OP BUCHA~AN
1
:) DISCOVERIES
science is full of mystery, and that its practice abounds
in uncertainty and contradiction.
If interrogated, as to the reason of this, there are few
who will not candidly confess, that the true cause of their
confusion is the want of a satisfactory knowledge of the
physiology of man. And, if interrogated again in what
respect their knowledge of man's economy is most de-
fective, they will readily agree, that of all portions of our
science, they are most defective in the physiology of the
nervous system. Indeed, until the discoveries of Gall,
there was an almost total ignorance of the functions of
the brain; and the functions discovered by him, being
entirely mental, threw little light upon the healing art,
except in reference to the treatment of Insanity.
And yet the nervous system is the seat of life, and
the controller of all the functions of the body. The
whole Science of Physiology is simply an exposition of
those functions in the body, which are put in play, and
carried on, by the nervous system. The digestion of
food and formation of blood-its circulation and distri-
bution to the various parts of the body: the growth and
nourishment of every part ; the remoYal of effete mat-
ter from the system, by the various excretions, and the
performance of all the muscular, voluntary, and invol-
untary motions, are all, simply, the various modes in
which the living power of the nervous system sets in
play the various par.ts of the body.
So long as the nervous system performs all its duties
with regularity, every organ of the body has its regular
and healthy action. Whenever there is an injurious im-
pression upon it, the bodily functions are disordered and
various forms of disease ensue. For it is recognized as
a principle in physiology, that disease begins with an in·
l!lr CEHEBHAL PHYSIOLOGY. 69
Jurious impression upon the nervous system, which inju-
jury works out its results in the corpDreal organs.
The conviction being general that the nervous system
is the "fons el origo" of all the morbid, as well as
healthy phenomena of man, reason would have dictated
that its functions should undergo the most rigid exami-
nation; and yet it is a fact, that up to the date of my re-
searches, not a single one of all the corporeal functions
had been traced to its cerebral source with any degree of
certainty and accuracy.
The extent of our ignorance in this matter, may be
shown again, by alluding to the phenomena of disease.
Of these, we may say, that at least one half are purely
sympathetic. They are produced by means of that in-
fluence which one part of the body exerts when diseased
in modifying the health of other parts. This modifying
influence, or sympathy, is exerted through the nervous
system ; but, beyond that fact, our knowledge was al-
most nothing. In what particular manner the sympathy
was effected, and why certain parts had a particular sym-
pathy with other parts, was unknown.
Thus we see, that the very fundamentals of a com-
plete system of Physiology were wanting, and that our
therapeutical philosophy was both lame and blind:
lame in its ignorance of the nature of disease, and
blind in its ignorance of the mode by which medicinal
agents made their impression.
To supply such defects as these, is the most exalted
object at which the ambition of man can aim; for, when
we develope the physiology of the nervous system, we
know man thoroughly-his mind, his body, his health,
and his disease.
Familiar as I am with the new truths developed by
my experiments, I am almost startled to record the na-
70 SKETCHES Or' llUCHAN.AN , S DISCOVERIES
ture and extent of those disco,·eries to which I would
call your attention. In doing so, I must remark that a~l
I assert is easily demonstrable~ when a proper opportuni-
ty is afforded; and that I wish to demonstrate each propo-
sition, before your honorable body, at as early a period
as practicable, by satisfactory experiments.
The essence of my discoveries consists in determin-
ing the seat of all the functions of the nervous system,
whether they relate to mind or body. For instance, I
determine with equal certainty the sources of the pas-
sion of anger; the sentiment of benevolence; the facul-
ty of vision; the power of secreting bile; the power of
secreting the gastric juice ; or the power of using the
muscles in locomotion.
Every passion or emotion that man can feel; every
intellectual faculty that he can exercise, and every func·
tion that is performed in any part of his body, has a le-
gitimate origin in some portion of his nervous system.
The result of my investigations shows that all of these
localities can be ascertained; and such has been my pro-
gress, that but few important principles have been left
for future discovery.
A beautiful and boundless field of knowledge has
thus been opened before us : but the useful purposes to
which these discoveries may be applied, are commensu-
rate with the magnitude of the discoveries themselves.
By knowing the exact source of all the functions of
body or mind, we are enable~ to control these functions
for every purpose that may be desired, and to act upon
mind or body as we please. There are many constitu-.
tions which admit of these impressions being produced,
with the greatest suddenness and certainty, by an influ-
ence apparently trivial. In such persons, any local
pain, as head-ache, tooth-ache, nausea, &c., &c., can be
1:'1 CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY . 71
removed in a few minutes. If dyspeptic, the stomach
can be made, in half an hour, to resume the discharge of
its healthy functions: if the liver is torpid, it can be
urged in the same time to the most vigorous action: if
there is constipation, or an imperfect secretion of urine,
the bowels and kidneys can be compelled to act. If
there is a fever, accompanied by excessive heat, the heat
can be promptly reduced, and the pulse regulated to any
condition that may be desired: or, if there is a chill, the
constitution can be warmed, the circulation regulated,
and the functions of the abdominal organs rectified. If
there is pulmonary disease and congestion of the Iungs,
they may be relieved of that congestion, and placed in
the most favorable condition for healing. If there is
any determination to the brain, that determination may
be checked, and the blood distributed to other parts of
the system. In short, the whole of the circulation and
secretions are completely under our control; and for this
class of constitutions, our neurological operations are a
perfect panacea. They perform all that medicine can
do, and they perform it with far more simplicity, certain-
ty, and precision, while they accomplish much to which
medicine does not aspire.
As far as this class of persons is concerned, the dis-
coveries of Neurology are worth far more than all the ex-
isting mass of medical science. They enable the prac-
titioner, while treating disease in the most prompt, sim-
ple and certain manner, to keep the mind of his patient
in any condition that he desires, and thus impart all the
calmness, fortitude, or cheerfulness, that may be neces·
sary to the patient's condition. If it should be neces-
sary to perform a surgical operation, he will be able to
blunt the sensibility, and increase the firmness of the
patient. until th,e mo~t painful operations can he en-
72 SKET CHES OF BUCHANAN ' s DISCOVERIRS
Jured : if the energies of the system arc prostratcJ by
melancholy, he can easily restore cheerfulness, or even
gaiety. In some cases, we are aware, that the life of the
patient is lost by the depressing influence of fear and
melancholy: in others, these depressing passions urge
their unfortunate victim to suicide, as the only relief. In
all such cases, a proper change in the state of the ner-
vous system will give relief, by producing cheerfulness,
and a capacity for cnjoying all the pleasures of life-
'Vhether this change can be pruduced readily, in all
cases, I am not prepared to say; but as I know, by daily
experience, that in the most effeminate constitutions
such a ·change can be produced in a few minutes; and the
laws of the human frame are the same in all cases ; \VC
may infer that any impression which can be produced
upon one individual, may also be produced upon an- ·
other, by resorting to the more or less energetic means
that suit the particular case, and occupying more or less
time in proportion to the facility with which the consti-
tution yields to the agent employed. In other words , if
we find the agent that can produce a particular impres-
sion upon the constitution, that agent will produce the
same impression upon other constitutions, by graduating
the dose to suit the impressibility of each case.
It would be tedious to enumerate the various impres-
sions which may be made upon the faculties, passions ,
and appetites of patients for medicinal purposes. The
power, which is certain cases we may exercise, is entire-
ly unbounded by any definite limits that can as yet be
perceived. A few only of the more obvious and valua-
ble results will be alluded to.
The want of appetite and of digestive power is so
common a circumstance in disease, that the power of re-
storing them wheneYer it may be necessary is an invaln,-
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 73
able art. It will give me pleasure to show you with
what facility we may control the gastric functions, and
produce or destroy appetite at will; creating hunger,
thirst, or nausea, as we wish.
It is not more easy to remove the dyspeptic affections,
to which deficient or morbid action of the appetites and
digestive powers gives rise, than it is to relieve those
which depend upon an exce~sive action of Hunger and
Thirst. The eager appetite of the convalescent invalid;
the raging hunger of bulimia; the gluttonous indulgence
of the gourmand, may all be brought in their bounds, by
diminishing the activity of that part of the brain from
which their appetites proceed.
But there is an appetite of a more formidable nature
than that of the gourmand-an appetite more pestilent
in its effects than the Asiatic cholera; because it is con-
tinually at work, hurrying its thousands upon thousands
of victims to a dishonored grave. The appetite for
strong drink, even though it has enlisted against it nearly
the whole moral force of our country, is still, as it al-
ways has been, a desolating curse. Medicinal skill
knows no efficient means of cure for this disease of the
appetite. The nostrums designed to create a disgust
against drinks, haYe accomplished little, because they do
not affect the real disease, which consists in a craving
for stimulus.
When I cast the mind's eye over the thousands of
desolate homes, and behold the many manly forms, the
many gifted minds that have sunk before the power of
this curse, I rejoice for the welfare of mankind to beliel"e,
that I have learned the true locality of this disease in
the, human constitution, and established the possibility
of modifying this formidable appetite. Indeed, I will
74 !!KETCHE'S OF BUCHANAN 'S DISCOVERIES:
stake my existence upon the fact, that the drunkard's
thirst may be as intelligibly and successfully managed,
as the affections of the liver, stomach, or heart.
One of the most serious calamities to professional
men, or, indeed, to any one, is the loss of the power of
fixing the attention. Deprived of this, all our attempts
at study are inefficient. The disease may run on to in-
sanity, or it may exist in a milder form, unfitting its sub-
ject for the business of life. Medicine knows no means
of operating directly upon this affection. Neurology
recognizes it as one of the most simple and manageable
forms of disease.
Nostalgia, or home sickness, melancholy, irritability,
abstraction, ennui, erotomania, timidity, nervousness,
and a hundred forms of mental disorder, are made per-
fectly intelligible, both in their nature and their treat-
ment, by the Science of Neurology.
In an essay, published a short time since, I gave the
following catalogue of effects which I had produced by
means of neurological principles. But I cannot close
this communication, without alluding to the specific
power which we possess of operating upon and controll-
ing the action of the heart. I wish to demonstrate, be-
fore you, that excitement of the heart can be arrested or
reproduced at pleasure, and that dangerous, apparently
fatal inflammations may be controlled with ease.
To operate specifically upon any portion of the body
for the restoration of its healthy functions, without ad-
ministering any drastic or deleterious substance, and in-
deed without using a particle of medicine, must bring
about a new and wonderful era in the healing art ; a per-
fect system of therapeutics, based upon a perfect svstem
of physiology. ·
These are discoveries of no obscure or uncertain na·
ar CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY.
ture. The present generation will have them in full op-
eration; and that medical Institution which will' take the
lead in their introduction, and persevere with ability, will,
in a few years, stand the acknowledged head of medical
science.
[For catalogue of efrects, see page 17.]
~Since this publication, my experience has daily given
me new facts and principles. To avoid all further detail,
I would simply remark, that I have found the key to the
whole mechanism of man; and that I will undertake, un-
der proper circumstances, to execute any command that
you may see fit to lay upon me, for the purpose of modi-
fying the state of either mind or body; proving that we
may lay bare the deepest mysteries of Nature, and that
we are now in the possession of knowledge which must
be of invaluable utility to the human race.
With high respect,
your humble servant,
Jos. R. BucHANAI".
The foregoing memorial having been received and
read by the Board, the following resolution was adopted
by that body:
·'Resolved, That the Board of Managers will meet Dr.
Buchanan at such time and place as he may appoint."
In pursuance of this resolution, Dr. Buchanan met the
Board on several different occasions, and made a great
variety of illustrative experiments. It is much to be re-
gretted that, owing'to the absence of the Secretary from
most of these meetings, no account ofthe experiments was
preserved. The_various cerebral organs were successfully
7o SKETCHES OF BUCHA~AN
1
S DISCOVE RIES
excited, and made to display their functions in a satisfac·
tory manner, as proposed in the memorial.
One of these experiments may be mentioned as it of·
fers something more than the ordinary excitement of the
organs.
By exciting the sense of tastet I had found it practica·
ble to extend its power so far as to enable the subject to
taste by the hand instead of the tongue. A distinguished
member of the Bar of Louisville had once been made ~e
subject of this experiment, in the presence of a very in-
telligent company, and had succeeded so far as to tell,
with great accuracy, and certainty whatever metal was
placed in his hand. ·
In repeating this experiment before the Board, (upon
.Mrs. G.,) she succeeded in tasting, with great precision,
every metallic or other substance which was placed in her
hands for trial ; and was able in the course ofa few min-
utes to tell the name of the substance, wnich she would
announce in the most positive manner, as soon as she
distinctly perceived the taste.
One of the gentlemen, desirous of having the most
accurate test of her powers in this new mode of tasting,
took from his pocket an article, which he kept concealed
from every one present, and which he permitted her to
touch with the left hand, while her head was turned in an
opposite direction. The substance was a piece of solid
rhubart and gave her in about one minute a pretty dis-
tinct taste. She proceeded to describe the taste and de-
scribed it with great accuracy, although she did not give
the name. As the taste became more and more distinct
it grew more and more nauseous and unpleasant to he;
until she became so very sick as to make it necessary fo;
me to go promptly to her relief, change the excitement
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 77
and dissipate, by a counter operation, her unpleasant sen-
sations.
After a number of evenings had been spent in Neuro-
logical experiments, the following resolution was adopt-
ed by the Board :
"Resolved, That Professors Caldwell, Cook and Cobb
be requested to enquire into the principles of the new
science of Neurology, as taught by Dr. Joseph R. Bucha-
nan, and to report at their earliest convenience to this
Board the facts which may have been presented to them.
and their opinion of the utility of the science in its appli-
cation to medicine." ·
LETTER FROM DR. CALDWELL.
ExTRACTs FR~M THE LETTER oF DR. CALDWELL To THE
EDITOR OF THE EDINBURGH PHRENOLOGICAL JouRNAL.
LouisVILLE, April 5, 1842.
!J,f.y Dear Sir: The paper from the pen of Dr. Buchan-
an, which this letter accompanies, is transmitted to you
in the belief that it will so far experience from you a fa-
vorable reception, as to be admitted to a place in the
Phrenological Journal which you so ably conduct. * *
If I mistake not its character. the paper contains in
itself an amount of curious, interesting and important
matter, abundantly sufficient to serve as its ready and
welcome passport into any phrenological depository of
the day.
In behalf of its solidity and merit, however, permit me
to observe, that I have myself witnessed experimental ver-
ifications of no inconsiderable number of the striking po-
sitions and allegations which it contains. I have also
performed in person a sufficient number of them to sen·e
me as an earnest of the truth of many others.
4
78 ~KETCHES 01-' BUCHANAN ' s DISCOVERIES
This is true, more especially, as regards the Mesmer·
ic excitement of the seperate organs of the brain, and the
calling forth, in an augmented degree, of their natural
language and action.
I apply to the excitement the term "Mesmeric," be·
cause the mode of its production is analagous to, and its
ruling principle no doubt identical with those of the pro·
duction of common Mesmeric phenomena. The follow-
ing experiments I have repeatedly performed, since my
last return from Europe, without encountering a single
failure.
Having thrown my subject into a complete Mesmeric
condition, I have so excited the organs of Combativeness
and Destructiveness, even in ladies of delicacy and re-
Jinement, whose natural feelings toward myself were
friendly and kind, as to induce them to give me blows, as
severe as they could inflict. I have then excited their
Benevolence, willing into their presence some ob-
ject of distress, and drawn from them an abundant effu-
sion of tears-their Veneration, and they have become
immediately devout, reverential and adoring-their Hope,
and their thoughts have become buoyant, elastic and bril-
liant, and all their anticipations a foretaste of felicity to
be afterwards enjoyed by them-their Cautiousness, and
they have sunk into victims of apprehension and gloom-
their Self-Esteem, and so swollen was their pride, that
they would hardly have submitted to the companionship
of an Empress-their Mirthfulness, and their thoughts
were cheering, sprightly and playful, and all their fancies
bright and mirth-born-their Number, and their instinct
of Calculation would become insatiable. A lady, in that
condition, counted several generations of canary birds
which she had reared, all the buttons on my coat and
waistcoat, and on being willed into my drawing room,
'
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY . 79
all the chairs, tables and pictures contained in the apart-
ment. I next excited her Order, whose development
was large, and in that state, willing her into my study,
she gave me an earnest rebuke on account of the disorder
and confusion which prevailed in it, and was quite ex-
ceptionable to her.
Thus have I, on several occasions, run through a ma-
jority of the larger and more powerful cerebral organs,
rousing them to strong action and expression, and in this
way settled, in my own opinion much more definitely and
indubitably, their positive locality, than can be effected by
any other mode of proceeding with which I am acquainted.
Among the experiments of Dr. Buchanan, which I
witnessed, a very interesting and important one consisted
in his augmentation or diminution at pleasure of muscu-
lar strength in any given part of the body. In the case
of a youth, convalescent from severe disease, the Doctor,
in the presence of several persons, I being one of them,
first augmented and then diminished the strength of the
arms, in a degree that was obvious and even striking to
the spectators. I have also been a witness, when he has,
by a similar process, changed very materially the condi-
tion of the digestive organs.
With respect to Dr. Buchanan's claim to priority in
the experiments alluded to, I possess no knowledge,
either definite or conclusive. One fact, however, I well
remember, which may be made perhaps to shed on the
subject some little light.
About eighteen months or two years ago, I received
from Dr. Buchanan a letter in which he alluded to certain
striking discoveries of great interest in Neurology, which
he had been so fortunate as to make. I have reason to
believe that his reference was to the discoveries announc-
"
80 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN's DISCOVERIES
ed in the article now before you, and I further believe
that at that period all other phrenologists and mesmerists
WERE STRANGERS to them.
BRIEF AccOUNT OF THE SciENCE OF NEUROLOGY-WRITTEN }'OR
'l'H.E EDINBURGH PunENOJ,OGICAL JouRNAL, BY Dn. JAs. R.
BucHANAN.
The rapid march of invention and discovery which
characterises the present age, renders it necessary that
those who discover new facts and principles in science,
should not delay too long their publication, if they would
secure to themselves the honor of discovery. That field
of scientific research which has been entered by myself,
is one so rich in matter, so easily entered by others, and
so abundantly covered with a tempting harvest, that I
deerri it necessary, ·even now, to make known what por-
tion of the harvest has been gathered by myself, and
what portion remains for future discovery. ·
The field alluded to, is that of Cerebral Physiology;
and the peculiar mode of cultivating it which I have
adopted, is that of exciting by external applications the
different portions of the brain, and ~timulating or sus-
pending their physiological functions for the purpose of
discovering what those functions are.
The effects of cerebral action, being (as has been de-
monstrated by experiment) both mental an.d corporeal,
we are able, by exciting different portions of the brain,
separately or conjointly, to bring about any condition of
mind or body at which we may aim.
That any external means should be able to control
the action of the brain, and that the action of the mind
should be modified by this cerebral excitement: in
short, that \lfe should be able thus to call forth any of its
iN CEREBRAT. PHYSIOLOGY. si
~acuities or emotions, with almost as much certainty and
facility, as when we elicit the different notes of a musi-
cal instrument, is a proposition so startling, as to be ut-
terly incredible to those who have not previously learned
that our mental faculties have their distinct cerebral or-
gans. From phrenologists, whose minds ha.ve been ex- '
'panded arid liberalized by the contemplation of the great
.truths of their science, we expect a cordial weicorhe for
the discovery, by which their science, while immensely
expanded and improved, is rendered a matter of de-
monstrable certainty, not only in its general principles,
but in all its details.
To a certain extent, the cerebral action of any indi-
vidual, may be modified by direct applicatioh5 to the
head; but those prompt and decided impressions, by
means of which any particular mental faculty may be
made for the time to control all the actions arid thoughts
of the suojeet-to display itself il1 every look arid every
expression-are practicable only with persorts of more
than the average susceptibility. The rtumber of such,
ho,vcver, is sufficient for our purposes: every city con-
tains hundreds of persons of suitable cortstitution.
In those of the greatest impressibility, I have found
no difficulty in exciting anger, piety, obstinacy, impa-
tience, love, hatred, fear, mirth, sympathy, fancy, rea-
son, generosity, avarice, .Pride,.vanity, humility, &c., so
as to compel them to display the passion excited. I
have made them laug~ or weep; walk or be still; fight
or apologise for quarrelling; talk or be silent; steal or
surrender stolen articles ; lie pertinaciously, or co11fess
sincerely every thing that might be asked; believe in
Mormonism, ghosts, and all absurd superstitions, or deny
every thing supernatural, and even the content~ of the
K
82 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN's DISCOVERIES
Bible; caress children and animals, or repulse them, as
if horrified by the thought of touching them ; abuse
their nearest friends or relatives, and theri offer to go
upon their knees and sue for the pardort of any whom
they may have offended: in short, there is no variety, no
extravagance of action, which I have not found it prac-
ticable to produce, in some of my subjects, in a few mih·
utes, while they were, in all other respects, in their natu-
ral condition of mind and body, at home, in the midst of
their friends and their ordinary avocations or amuse
ments.
The control which I have fotirid practicable over the
corporeal furictions, ~s riot less striking and ~xtreme than
over the mental. The body may be heated or cooled ;
the pulse may be changed into any of the rriany condi-
iions of fulness, tezision, force, or frequency, that can
be discovered by the most delicate tact; the muscular
system may be supplied vvith an extraordinary vigor, or
rendered powerless ; the heart accelerated and increased
in the force of its action, or reduced to an entire suspen-
sion of its movements; the stomach made to digest, to
vomit, .or to suspend either action; the liver to secrete,
Or to sus'pend the secretion of bile; the whole of the ab-
dominal viscera to perform vigorously, or to suspend
their functions. The e·ye, ear, hand, nose, tongue, throat,
or salivary glands, m·ay be made in' a few moments to
perform, to a greater or less·extent, or to suspend their
several functions of seeing, hearing, touchin'g and feel-
ing, smelling, tasting, swallo\ving and salivation. In-
deed, there is n:ot a single function of the human' system,
which may not, by operating upon' its cerebral source be
modified, accelerated, retarded' or suspended. '
Or, to express it otherwise, every portion of the vital
economy is under the control of portions of the cerebra]
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 83
mass; and these portions have been by my experiments
ascertained with sufficient precision~ to enable me to
produce with certainty any effect that I may wish upon
the body, through the medium of the controlling power
of the brain.
The subjects nf these experiments have been persons
of various characters and conditions-many of a high
order of intelligence. They have been made upon phy-
. sicians, clergymen, lawyers, &c., some of \vhgm are
among the most distinguished in our country; and many
upon ladies, whose fine mental cultivation has added to
the resources of a vigorous ·and discriminating intellect.
The incidents occurring with such persons could not but
be deeply interesting. The scenes arising from these
experiments, happening sometimes in private, some-
times in fashionable parties, possess that wonderful and
romantic interest which belongs to no department of
science so much as to the higher walks of Anthropology.
Not even the physical immensities of Astronomy afford
so vast and mysterious a theme, as the workings of the hu-
man mind. Nor does any other science offer so great a
multiplicity and diversity of phenomena, resulting from
a few simple, fundamental laws.
It is obvious, that the variety of facts and principles,
which have thus been developed, cannot be properly
comprehended by the term Phrenology, which signifies
merely the science of the mind. It became necessary to
find some term more comprehensive. Anthropology,
which is sufficiently comprehensive, is not sufficiently
specific. Cerebrology, which is sufficiently specific, is
not quite sufficiently comprehensive. I have, therefore,
brought into usc a term which has been well received.. in
this country, which is at once s\lfficiently specific and
sufficiently comprehensive-NEl1
ROLOGY. This n·ord, by
..
84 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN ' s DISCOYERIES
which we mean the science of the entire. mass of the
nervous substance in the body, whether central or radial,
answers our purposes with precision, and prevents the
necessity of coining any new term.
NEuROLOGY, while it incorporates the entire mass of
Physiology with Phrenology, makes a revolution in the
latter science. Although the greater portion of the or-
gans discovered by Gall and Spurzheim, have been cor-
rectly described, in the main, experiment has proved
about one-third of the number to have been incor-
rectly understood. Nor does the catalogue of Gall,
Spurzheim, Combe, or Vimont, embrace a sufficient
number of functions to explain the diversified pheno-
mena of human character. We have been compelled, by
the results of experiment, to make very large additions to
this catalogue. The extent to which we have been com-
pelled to go, will probably not a little startle those who
prefer in all things to keep the world as it is, and who
recognize the phenomena of nature only so far as may
suit their inclinations.
That so large a nD:mber of cerebral functions should
exist, is, however, a fact entirely reasonable and plausi-
ble in itself. The structure of the brain, pays no great
respect to the arbitrary lines by which phrenologists
have been accustomed to divide its organs. On the con-
trary, we find that the fibres of adjacent organs, said to
possess very distinct functions, often lie together in such
a manner, a~ to defy any definition of the boundary be-
tween them. The similarity of structure and position,
always appeared to my mind a strong argument against
the ~xist~nce of any very distinct functions in fibres so
near and parallel. The fact, too, that from the sympathy
of contiguity, the~e neighboring fibrei must partake of
~ach other's excitement, and be generally brought into
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 8b
action together, gave additional strength to the opinion,
that they could not be destined to the performance of
entirely independent and dissimilar functions. This
opinion, being, according to the pathognomic laws, a
matter of absolute certainty, I had taught it for some
years in my courses of lectures ; and, having brought it
to the test of experiment, have found it confirmed.
Regarding the convolutions as composed of fibres,
the functions of which vary by insensible gradations
from point to point, I expected to find the neighboring
organs of each convolution, harmonious in their func·
tions; those farther apart, materially different; and those
occupying an intermediate position, manifesting an in-
termediate function; the whole, blending, like the colors
of the prismatic spectrum, in a regular manner and with
an appropriate gradation. Thus, in my experiments, I
have found that if any two portions of the brain, lying
adjacent in the same convolution, gave two different
functions, their points of contact when excited gave a
function of an intermediate character, very nearly such
as would result from the blending of their powers.
'Vhenever a particular function has resulted from the ex-
citement of any spot, a slight variation of the locality,
in any direction, would change the character of the phe-
nomena developed: and a change, in an opposite direc-
tion, would generally vary the result in an opposite man-
ner. Instead of finding any considerable portion acting
as a unit, and manifesting entirely the same function,
some of those portions which have been laid down as-
distinct, prove to be possessed of not less than three,
four, or five, distinguishable functions, which are in
some cases, materially different from those heretofore
ascribed to them.
It is t"ery probable, that there may be certain divisions
86 SKETCHES OF BUCll.\NA:S 's DISCOVERIE3
and arrangements of the cerebral organs, which are sane~
tioned by nature; but what these natural subdivisions
arc, I am not yet prepared to say. I have adopted, for
my Neurological bust, that which seems most convenient
and accordant with the mental relations to the external
world, and with the phenomena of the human constitu-
tion; an arrangement which cannot be called exact, but
which is certainly, in most respects, a near approximation
to the proper arrangement.
The number of independent functions, which may
thus be demonstrated by experiment, with an adequately
susceptible person, amounts to 166; but, for convenience
of instruction, I demonstrate usually not more than one
hundred. With a subject of large brain, well cultivated
mind, and high susceptibility, I have no doubt that even
as many as two hundred might be shown.
It will probably be asked, whether the physiological
and psychological phenomena manifested by the brain,
do not originate in distinct portions, thus preserving a
broad line of demarcation between the mental and cor-
poreal. To this, it must be replied, that no such distinc-
tion exists ; but that every portion of the brain is charged
with the control equally of the mind and of the body.
Each portion produces a particular mental, and also a
particular corporeal effect, whenever called into action ·
whence results the great and beautiful law of Anthropol~
ogy, that a particular condition of the body, accompanies
every particulm· condition of the mind. UpoQ this law,
we base the practicability of MoRAL MEDICINE; or, affect-
ing the body in a beneficial manner by mental influences.
Carrying out the operations of this law, to its ultimate
results, we see how certain shapes and conditions of the
body are connected by the lin.ks of causation with cer-
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 87
tain emotions and traits of character, and may, therefore,
in a rational system of physiognomy, be relied upon as
a sufficient indication. . In this way only, can Physiogno-
my be rendered a Science~ and for some years, I have·
been endeavoring to give it that character.
To illustrate the law just announced, let me here
mention a few examples. That portion of the brain
which produces the love of habitation, or desire to live
in a house, produces also an easy, pleasant condition of
the lungs, in which the inspiratory, oxygenating functions
are urrcsted or retarded, and the demand for fresh or cool
air, is very limited; by which condition, we are fitted for
living in close apartments. Man, it is thus proved, is
designed by Nature to live in ri. house, and not entirely
in the open air. That organ, which, when excited, pro-
duces a vigorous action of the lachrymal glands, and an
effusion of tears, produces also the most intense emo-
tions of sympathy. That which gives the most delicate
visual sensibility, gives for its mental function, the per-
ception of light, shade, and distance. That which gives
to the character the trait of Firmness, gives also corpo-
real hardihood and insensibility. That which gives the
propensity for observation, gives the eye the power of
enduring laborious usc, and the glare of intense light.
Through all the phenomena of mind and body, there is
an exact parallelism, and an indissoluble connexion of
the several parts of one to the several parts of the other.
These double functions, i. e., equally mental and cor-
poreal, are so arranged in the brairi, as to have by conti-
guity, a most harmonious co-operation; and by antago-
nism of position, a most perfect antagonism of function:
the antagonistic organs, generally working together, and
thereby preserving the just balance of the human organ-
ism, mentally and corporeally.
88 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN' s DISCO\'ERIES
All these mental and physiological phenomena, are
the results of a few simple laws ; the rudiments of
which were traced out by the original discoveries of
Gall. The results of my own investigations had shown
me, before I undertook Neurological experiments, that
these laws were simple and universal, when applied to
Anthropology, and furnished a complete key to the whole
science of man. Their nature may be illustrated by the
following proposition, viz :
All mental phenomena, resulting from any particular
organ, when in action, and all the cotpot"eal effects of
that organ, are associated with a certain particular line
of action, which is called the pathognomic line of that
organ. As far as the influence of that organ extends, it
tends to throw every thing in the direction of that line,
and in that line only can it act. So fiii: as our actions,
or the phenomena of the human body correspond with
that line, they are the effect of that organ. SO' fa:r' as the
phenomena of Nature cotrespond with that lirie, fhey are
grateful to the organ; and, so far as they depart from it,
they are disagreeable. By these pathognomic lines,
every muscular movement may thus be analyzed, andre-
ferred to its true cerebral sources: the various distribu-
tions of innervation, and of blood throughout the body,
are as easily referred to their different cerebral causes ;
and the expressive movements of the countenance, arc
also easqyunderstood, as emanations of peculiar cerebral
influences, the sources of which, may be traced with
prec1swn. In consequence of these pathognomic lines,
by which the study of mind and of physiology is so ex-
tremely simplified, we are enabled to announce the
broad, and indeed universal proposition, that the whole
science of the mind, and of the body, is subject to clear
IN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 89
and comprehensive MATIIEMATICAL LAws, and '<vill, ere
long become a science of mathematical clearness.'*'
NEUROLOGY, is then an ·exposition of the following
general laws :
1. The brain governs and sustains every corporeal,
and performs every mental function.
2. The cerebral organs may be influenced directly
by external means, and the phenomena of mind thus
brought under control for scientific study, or for thera-
peutic benefits.
3. The body, l;>eing under the absolute control of the
brain, may be effectually managed by cerebral influ-
ences ; and diseases may be successfully treated by ope-
rations upon the head alone.
4. Every physiological is indissolubly united to its
corresponding psychological function.
5. The peculiar condition of the body may be in-
ferred from that of the mind: and this may be made a
very important method of DIAGNosrs in disease. The pe-
culiar character and action of the mind, may be inferred
with equal certainty from the appearance of the body; in
which law, 've have the broadest basis for Physiogno-
my.t
6. Every function, or organ, is associated for its bal-
ance and control vdth an antagonist function or organ;
• I have made an interesting application of the pathognomic lines to the
11nalysis of the movements I)[ the hand in writing. By meuns of this sci-
ence, or art, which I call Chirognomy, I have found it practicable to infer
the character and the cere bra) deYelopemen t from the hand writing. ln
some re>ipects, Chirognomy is not inferior to Cranioscopy as a guide to
character. Of late, I have not given 110 much attention to thi11 subject; but
others have taken it up and prosecutec it with success. The principles of
Chirognomy are simple-the practice is difficult-the results are \Vonderfnl.
tEach portion of the body, being connected with some passion, emo-
tion or facult.y, there. is a ra~ional foundation _for the conception that the
passions are located m the VISC~fl!--a conc~ptwn, much nearer the truth,
thun Phrenologist;c have been \vllhng to belteve.
r.
<JQ SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN ' s DISCOVERIES
and by means of these laws of antagonism, the ·whole
mass of Cerebral Physiology assumes a wonderful and
beautiful simplicity.
7. The functions of the brain are indefinitely sub-
divisible. and are arranged harmoniously in accordance
with the laws of the u sympathy of contiguity." and the·
laws of antagonism.
8. The various sympathies of the viscera, and the
various concatenations of morbid phenomena in disease,
may be explained by the positions and sympathies of the
various cerebral organs. Physiological sympathy is
chiefly the effect of the contiguity and the antagonism
of cerebral organs.
9. All the physiological and psychological pheno-
mena of man, as well as the positions of the cerebral or-
gans, and his whole anatomical structure, are in harmo~
ny with certain pathognomic lines, and governed by
strict mathematical laws.
10. The nervous or cerebral influence, or fluid, is
radiated from the brain in the pathognomic lines of the
organs, and is also efficiently conducted by the human
hand.
To demonstrate the independent existence and trans-
missihility of a nervous fluid, establishes an important
point in Physiology. I have often performed a very sim-
ple experiment, by which it may be clearly established.
By taking hold of a metallic rod, (a knife, pair of scis-
sors, poker, or whatever happe_ns to be convenient,) we
may transmit the nervous fluid through this conducting
medium, and produce striking effects upon the person
who holds it by the othe.r extremity. The subject should
be of an impressible constitution, and should keep the
arms relaxed, while the operator grasps the rod firmly,
making some muscular exertion. In a few minutes,
lN CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY, Vl
something like an electric aura is felt, passing up the
arm, and it becomes gradually benumbed from the hand
to the shoulder. If continued, this influence is diffused
over the whole system. I have mentioned this experi-
ment to others, who have repeatedly performed it with
entire success.
11. This influence is susceptible of being transmit-
ted from one person to another of the proper susceptibil-
ity; and in some cases, the action of all the intellectual
and affective organs may be thus transmitted, reproduc-
ing in the subject, the sensations, emotions, and thoughts
of the operator. This transmission may be made either
through the hand, or by direct radiation from the head.
12. The phenomena of Animal Magnetism, arc
nothing more than peculiar displays of the cerebral func~
tions, and of the laws of the nervous fluid \vhich are es-
tablished by Neurology.
· 13. Every organ has certain relations to its' class of
objects and phenomena in Nature; and there is an exact
adaptation of all the inclinations and powers of the dif-
ferent organs, to all the phenomena and objects in the ex·
ternal world.
For instance, each organ prefers a particular color
and a particular note in music: it is, therefore, practi-
cable, to determine what style of coloring will be used
by a painter, with a given form bf head, and who.t style
of music will be the favorite of a certain composer; or
to take a particular piece of music, and determine from
its notes and measure, the exact effect that it will have
upon the different organs of the brain. "'\Vhat we say of
music and colors, is equally appHcable to voi~es, lan-
guage, scenery, gestures, dress, &c. In modifying the
cerebral action, I have succeeded not only in changing
the inclinations for particular styles of music~ or for par-
gz SKETCHES OF HUCHAIIA:'i''S DISCOVERIES
ticular notes and classes of notes, but have even changed
the pitch- of the voice; and, in one case, enlarged its
compass, making it reach two notes higher and three
notes lower than the lady had ever been able to attain
before.
The predilections of the different organs for colors,
are such as to lie together in the same order of arrange-
ment, which we observe in the rainbow and the pris-
matic spectrum. I have painted two crania, with the
colors of the organs, and the display is as interesting as
beautiful. The color of Destructiveness is a dark bloody
red, and many of the other organs are as appropriately
colored. By operating upon the head of a painter, and
requesting him, as I called up various colors to his mind,
to paint them 1ipon the organ excited, I obtained a very
accurate delineation. In a similar manner, I traced the
relation of ihe organs to musical notes, and established
the relations which the musical scale bears to the scale
of colors. At some future time, I propose to demon-
strate experimentally, that harmonific colors may be dis-
played by an appropriate apparatus which I have invent-
ed, in such a manner, as to constitute a most brilliant
and pleasing species of music, to be enjoyed, either in-
dependently, or in connexion with vocal and instru-
mental music.
14. It is practicable, in many cases, by direct opera-
tions upon the brain, to revolutionize the character and
constitution; to conduct education in a more successful
manner, and to treat not only monomania, but many
vices and crime3, as curable diseases.
To develope and illustrate the foregoing propositions,
is my object in the works which I am now preparing for
the press. It is needless to dwell upon the importance
of these doctrines to science and humanity. A few re·
lN C~REHHAL PHYSIOLOGY.
1Harks, however, may be offered by way of additional ex·
planation. But it is not my purpose here to offer more
than the general propositions, which may show distinctly
the nature of my discoveries. Some of the more novel
and important points, relating to the functions of the or-
gans, will be mentione'd.
1. Of the senses, we are able to demonstrate the
lo.calities of not less than twelve.
Sight, Odor, Thirst, Thermal Sense,
Hearing, Flavor, Hunger, Electric Sense,
Touch, Taste, Feeling, Sense of Touch.
The number might be increased, by adding others
which have a less definite claim to be recognized as dis-
tinct senses.
Of the existence of the Electric Sense. my experi-
ments give ample demonstration. I have frequently ex·
cited it, until the exalted sensibility became intensely
painful. The sensations of my subjects, they declared,
were almost horrible. In this state of excitement, even
the contact of their fingers with each other, was more
than they could endure. The effects of an exalted ex-
citement of the organs of the senses, are almost incredi-
ble. I am induced to believe, that with some of my
subjects, it would not be impossible to approximate the
sensibility, which would "die of a rose in aromatic
pain."
The organs of Force, Touch, Heat, Ele~tricity, and
Feeling, lie together, at the anterior extremity of the mid·
dle lobe. The frontal aspect of the middle lobe, thus
possesses an humble grade of intellectual power. The
most intelleciual of these organs, the Sense of Force,
lies most anteriorly, appearing to run into the front
lobe.
2. There is an organ producing iutrepidity, and an·
04 SKETCHES OF BUCHANAN ' s DISCOVERIES
other producing physical insensibility, lying adjacent to
each other, nearly in the region assigned by Gall to
Firmness.
By means of the latter organ, I have made ladies of
the greatest delicacy of constitution, capable of enduring
severe blows, and even so insensible, as to pull out their
own hair freely, \vithout minding it or feeling the pain.
In this condition of insensibility, they would strike their
knuckles against any solid body, as hard as I would per·
mit them, and feel no sensation of pain until I restored
their physical sensibility. Upon the restoration being
made, they would c9mplain of the pain in the knuckle3
from the blow, or of the smarting where the hair had
been pulled from the head; and it would become neces-
sary again to diminish their physical sensibility.
3. The antagonists of Self.esteem, and Vanity, lie
upon the side head, in the regions assigned to Sublim-
ity, Ideality, &c., which originate admiring and respect-
ful sentiments.
4. The organs of Acquisitiveness and Secretive-
ness, are in the occiput adjacent to Combativeness, and
their antagonists are in the neighborhood of Benevo-
lence.
In exciting the different cerebral organs, I have some:
times, unawares, excited Secretiveness, and found that
all of a sudden my intercourse with my subject was sus-
pended. She would answer no questions whatever, and
seemed immoveable as a statue, by ;ny appeal that I
could make. Taking my subject in company engaged
in social intercourse, the excitement of Secretiveness
would promptly jsolate her from surrounding influences,
until she seemed unconscious of the existence of any
person in the room ; as she would hold no intercourse
with any one, and gave no symptom of recognition
IN CEUEBR.U PllYSIOI,OGY. 95
~vhen addressed. The Gallian system of Phrenology
IS, howe"\'er, not entirely untrue in reference to Secretive-
ness ; as secret and roguish dispositions are manifested
upon the side of the head, in very nearly the locality to
which they were referred by Gall and Spurzheim. That
moral species of Secretiveness, which produces personal
reserve and modesty-which restrains licentiousness
and indecency-which suggests the ideas of clothing and
privacy, lies also very nearly as phrenologists had lo-
cated Secretiveness.
The manifestations of Acquisitiveness, going even so
far as to produce theft, in addition to ·striking displays of
Covetousness, left no room to entertain a doubt as to the
locality and functions of that organ.
These cases are so striking, and perhaps unique, as to
deserve to be briefly mentioned. Mrs. A. and 1\'lrs. B.,
as we will call the ladies, were the subjects in the pres-
ence of their husbands and other company. A. was sit-
ting at the tea-table; the meal having just been taken,
when I undertook to make her steal. When she was
not observing me, I had placed a few small pieces of
money upon the table near her, that she might have
something to steal, whenever the disposition came upon
her. I began to excite Acquisitiveness;' and in a short
time, her countenance shO\a.red that some impression was
made. She noticed the money which lay near her, but
made no remark. As soon as she observed that no one
was looking towards herself, she seized the money and
put it in her lap under the table by a sudden movement;
while her countenance showed that peculiar roguish ex-
pression. \vhich belongs to those who covet what is
around them, but arc unwilling to let it be known. Her
husband, and others, who had noticed the act, began to
enquire and look around for the small change which was
9G SKETCHES OF EUCIU~AN 's DlSCOVERIER
missing. She pretended to be entirely ignorant, an~ nt
length denied that there had been any there at all, while
she kept it carefully hid under her apron. The search
was given up, and the experiment continued, by placing
other articles within her reach, and giving her an oppor-
tunity to take them. These she stole with more bold-
ness than before, as the covetous passion was growing
stronger. "\Vhenever she got possession of an article by
any means, she would not give it up; and would very
soon hide it in her lap, and deny that she either had it or
had ever seen it. If any thing was displayed before her,
she would beg permission to handle it, to try it on, to
compare it with something else, or to borrow it for a few
minutes; and when she obtained possession, she would
either claim it upon some frivolous pretence, or conceal
it, and deny knowing any thing about it. After display-
ing her theft and falsehood for about fifteen or 20 min-
utes, I reversed the operation, exciting a lib~ral commu-
nicative disposition. Her character was reversed in five
or six minutes, and she found herself in possession of a
number of arricles carefully hid in her apron, for the pos-
session of which she could not account. So quick and
complete was the revolution. that what had just hap-
pened, escaped her as a dream which we forget upon
waking. She could not believe that she had stolen the
articles, but insisted that they must have been put into
her lap without her knowledge, and proceeded to en-
quire into their ownership and restore them. This sud-
den forgetfulness, is a common feature of those experi-
ments, in which very great revolutions are made in the
feelings of the subject. Eventuality must be excited,
before they can recollect what they have done and said.
1\Irs. B. was tried after l\1rs. A., and in about ten
minutes, stole a watch from a gentleman who had left it
L"i CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 97
upon the table; and, having hid it, denied the posses-
sion of lt entirely. Search was made about the room,
and as the examiner approached her, overcome by the
fear of detection, she ran out of the room, but was in-
duced to stop in the passage. Her usual manners were
quite dignified and lady like; but on this occasion, her
manners and expression of countenance were entirely
changed from what was natural. By kind promises, I
induced her to let me approach her; and, haYing re-
moved the acquisitive influence, she gave up what she
had taken. Upon being asked what was her design
when she ran from the room, she replied, that it was to
hide the watch out.of doors, or to throw it away.
Both of the ladies showed some mortification at the
result of the experiment, and an unwillingness to believe
when we told them what they had done. Similar experi-
ments were subsequently repeated; and, urttil I became
familiar with the exact location of Acquisitiveness, I
found that it would become strongly excited at times,
before I discovered that I had touched ihe spot. The
description which, when restored, they gave of their feel-
ings under the excitement, showed that they were urged
by an irresistible impulse to take whatever they wished,
which made them blind to the nature and consequences
of the act. On one occasion, 1\irs. A. had been excited
to stealing and lying, by Acquisitiveness and Secretive-
ness ; after which, I excited her sense of honor to the
highest pitch. She had entirely forgotten what had hap-
pened in the former condition; and when accused.
stoutly denied that she had ever told a falsehood, or
taken what did not belong to her. I excited her Eventu-
ality, and brought the incidents before her mind distinct-
ly. The effect was striking. She sat for some minute~
M
98 .KETCHES OF BUCHANA...
"(
1
S DISCOVERIES
silent and motionless ; as if overcome by horror and
shame, engrossed in painful thoughts. I had never !een
such a picture of agonized pride. She said afterwards,
that she felt as if she wished she could sink into the
earth to escape her shame.
5. The organ of Fear lies at the anterior extremity
of the region heretofore devoted to Secretiveness.
This being a very powerful and painful emotion, we
cannot be mistaken in its excitement: nor have I, in lo--
cating this organ, relied upon any slight or uncertain evi·
dence. I may remark of this, as of all the other organs
of which I speak with positiveness, that I have pushed
their excitements as far as my subjects would permit me
to go; or as far as was compatible with a due regard to
their health; and, indeed, sometimes to the extent of in-
flicting temporary injury by the exhausting displays of
passion. This is more particularly true, in reference to
terror, anger, and grief.
6. The faculties of Concentrativeness and Inhabit·
iveness have distinct cerebral locations; yet neither
Combe, Spurzheim, nor Vimont, has given their loca-
tions correctly. Inhabitiveness lies at the angle of the
parietal bone, (punctum ossificationis,) a spot heretofore
assigned to the organ of Cautiousness. Patriotism has
a distinct location between Inhabitiveness and Conscien-
tiousness. The organ, heretofore called Concentrative-
ness, is a portion of thi organ of Self-Es.teem, produc-
ing the love of rank and power.
7. The intellectual organs cannot be properly di-
vided into the perceptive and reflective. They are all
reflective, and equally so : reflection is the essence of
their functions. The power of perception depends upon
the co-operation of certain occipital organs with the in·
tellectual, by which their action is directed to external
IN CEREBH.AL PHYSIOLOGY. 99
objects. With this occipital co-operation, each intellect-
ual organ takes cognizance of what is before it, observ-
ing those things to which its function is adapted. The
perceptive, knowing, and reflective faculties, as they are
at present styled, are, properly speaking, the powers of
conceiving physical objects, action or change, and ab-
stract principles. The gradation of the intellectual or-
gans, from the physical to the abstract, admits of six
distinct sub-divisions.
8. The scparn.tions and sub-divisions of the affective
functions, which have been demonstrated, are of some
importance.
.Mirthfulness, or Humor, is distinguishable from \Vit;
Gaiety, or Cheerfulness, belongs to the organs which
regulate the animal spirits; and Laughter, is produced by
an organ in the base of the brain. Expression, may be
distinguished from Imitation; and Credulity, from ~u­
pernaturality. Our kindly emotions have five distinct
organs; three of them lying together: Liberality, Sym-
pathy, and Benevolence; one adjacent to Veneration and
Hope, called Philanthropy; and one upon the parietal
ridge, which may be called Good Nature. Physical
Beauty, Grace, and Refined Sentiment, stand related to
three adjacent organs. The same may be remarked of
Physical Grandeur, Moral Greatness, and Grand Events,
or Displays of Power. Filial Piety proves to be a dis-
tinct emotion from Veneration. The organ of the for-
mer emotion is one inch from that of t}qe latter, lying
between Hope and Marvelousness. \Yonder proves to
be distinct from Supernaturality, and has a more intel-
lectual location. Our spirits are regulated, not by Hope
and Cautiousness alone, but by a series of organs, lying
around the head near a plane, which runs through the ears
and bisects at right angle5 the median plane, passing
100 !K.Ii:TCHES OF BU<..'1U...
'U.N 'S DlSCOVERI.el!J
between the hemispheres. Fancy, Romance, Solitude,
Antiquity, Tranquillity, Patience, Zeal, Sincerity, Obe·
dience, &c., are sub-divisions of the moral organs, which
are easily demonstrable, and cannot properly be omitted.
9. The intellectual organs admit of an extremely
minute sub-division; but we refer only to that of Time,
Tune, Language, Combination, System, Eventuality,
Motion. 'Ne find the power of perceiving special pe-
riods, as the time of day, distinct from that of perceiving
the succession of events. The power of recollecting re-
mote events, is distinct from that of recollecting the
recent. The power of perceiving pitch, is distinct from
that of perceiving harmony. The power of articulation,
is distinct from that of perceiving vowel sounds. The
power of construction, as in building, is distinct from
that of combining moving objects in machinery or tac-
tics: this again, is distinct from the more general power
of planning. The power of systematizing, is distinct
from that of producing order. The power of perceiving
light and shade, belongs to a distinct organ from that of
color; lying between Form and Size. (Form is situated
a little more internally than was supposed.) The power
of perceiving motion, belongs to a new organ, just below
Eventuality, which is sub-divisible into at least four dis-
tinct portions, perceptive of different kinds of motion. 1\1:
10. In reference to the occipital o~gans, we have
important propositions to present. Conjugal Attachment
lies not exterior to Philoprogenitiveness, but just above
it on the median line. The various forms of attachment
produced by the occiput, need not now be detailed; but
the general remark may be made, that the moral and
*.My attention wa~ first directed to th.ese sub-division~ of motion, by
fi~dmg that an old blu~d woman, w.hose stght ~had partially restored, was
ab.e, under one operation, to percetve.the verttcul portions of the window
sash alone, and under another, the honaontal.
1~ U£.iEERAL PHY!:IIOLOGY . 101
disinterested portion of any attachment is entirely inde.
pendent of the occiput. Friendship, o·r love, properly
speaking, cannot exist independent of the coronal and
frontal organs. The action of the occipital alone, pro-
duces an attachment entirely of a selfish and domineer-
ing character. I have found some difficulty in settling
upon the exact names to be applied to the occipital or-
gans ; nor have I yet decided whether to use the names
expressive of the compound function which results from
the occipital organs acting in conjunction with their an-
tagonists, or those which result from the occipital action
alone. To illustrate these remarks, I would mention the
fact, that the organ which has been called Philoprogeni-
tivenes3, but which really manifests only the animal half
of the Philoprogenitive functions, does,when excited alone
into predominant action, become one of the most mis-
chievous and malignant propensities, although when ope-
rating in conjunction with its moral associate, it is one of
the most beneficial to humanity. Having once carried this
excitement to a great extreme, the feelings and expres-
sions of my subject became coarse, vindictive, and hor-
rible. They were too revolting to be detailed. Al-
though this excitement was effectually removed, at the
time, for some days afterwards the same associations
would obtrude themselves upon her memory, and she de-
clared her determination never to have any such feelings
revived by an operation upon her head.
11. The organ of Amativeness lies in the internal
portion of the middle lobe, in the region containing also
urination, defecation, calorification, respiration, &c.,
with \Vhich it is connected. It is immediately surround-
ed by several organs which originate the acts and physi-
cal conditions that are associated with the excitement of
Amativeness. The Cerebellum is not the organ either
102 llKETCHBII OF .SUCHANA;.'f
1
S DISCOVJ\RIE~
of Amativeness, muscular strength, or physical sensibil·
ity. Its function was better conceived by the older
physiologists, than by ihe more modern. We cannot yet
demonstrate the precise nature of the powers, but regard
it as controlling the lymphatic and nutrient functions.
12. The various tissues and organs of the body, are
under the control of the cerebral organs, which send or
remove their supply of blood, and of others which send
or withhold their supplies of innervation. The locality
of these organs can be distinctly demonstrated by exper-
iments, such as I have often performed, in which the
functions of any part of the body may be excited, as far
as is compatible with the safety and health of the sub-
ject. The range of vision, the muscular strength, or
the powers of hearing, may be increased tenfold: the
appetite made ravenous, or changed to a loathing of
food: any of the principal secreting and excreting organs
may be put into action, and kept excited, until the secre-
tion or excretion will either make itself visible, or if in·
ternal, will be felt distinctly by the subject. The Phy-
siology and Therapeutics based upon Neurological dis-
coveries, I hope, in due time to lay before the public in a
practical treatise.
The light which these discoveries shed upon the ·
subject of Physiological Sympathy, bids fair, not only to
render it intelligible, but to reduce all its extremely com-
plicated phenomena, to a few general laws of the most
perfect simplicity. Portions of the body, controlled by
contiguous portions of the brain, sympathise with each
other, in consequence of the direct sympathy ofcontiguity
in the brain, and antagonist portions of the brain estab-
lish a reverse sympathy in the portions of the body which
they control. 'Thus we explain, by direct sympathy of
contiguity, sudden death by poison, and most of the im,
IN CXREaRAJ. PHYSIOLOGY. 103
portant sympathies of the system with the stomach ; the
effects of fear upon the heart, stomach, and bowels ;
the trembling and shivering produced by cold; the sud-
den alternations of heat and cold in uterine and hemor-
rhoidal diseases ; the operations of malaria in producing
cholera, fever, ague, &c.; the timidity attendant upon
severe diseases of the heart; the melancholy connected
with certain conditions of the hypocondriac viscera, and
the cheerful hope of the consumptive invalid who is even
in the hands of death. By the antagonistic sympathy we
explain, for example, the cramps and cold sweats of
cholera ; the sudorific effects of certain medicines ; the
operation of heat in producing perspiration, languor, de-
bility, and epidemic diseases; the prevalence of hepatic
disease in warm climates ; the sympathy of the liver with
the shoulder and with the head; the effects of blisters,
sinapisms to the back or the occiput in ophthalmia and
cataract ; the effects of hepatic disease upon the counte·
nance; the fortitude of the victims of cholera; the de-
pressing effects of hunger; the wholesome effects of dis-
agreeable medicines, &c. &c.
In applying the principles of Neurology, to the treat-
ment of disease, as dyspepsia, hypocondriasis, nausea,
local pains connected various affections, rheumatism,
palpitation, ophthalmia, ophthalmodynia, blindness, in-
termittent fever, partial deafness, cutaneous eruptions,
pericarditis, constipation, coldness of the feet, general
debility, &c., I have found ample confirmation of what
was developed in healthy subjects. I have found, too, that
there is a class of persons, over whom cerebral excite-
ments exercise so prompt and powerful a control, that we
may accomplish with them far more than can be accom-
plished by medication, in a very prompt and precise man-
ner. 'Vhen any particular symptom, or any peculiar form
104 SKETCHES OF BUCHJ.~AN
1
S DISCOVERIES
of disease exists, instead of administering through the al-
imentary canaL articles which may affect the whole con-
stitution, producing other effects in addition to those we
wish, and often creating additional disease, we address
our operations to the exact state of the system and the lo-
cality that is affected. A most admirable illustration of
this has recently occurred in a case of pericarditis, which
was seen by Dr. Caldwell, in the stage of convalescence.
That these discoveries, when fully carried out, will effect
a revolution in l\Iedical Sciencn, is as certain as the regu-
lar course of the seasons. How far that revolution may
go in changing the practice, I am not yet prepared to say;
but, in regard to the Philosophy of Medicine, it may be
affirmed that now, for the first time, we may obtain a
sufficient basis for that Philosophy.
I have not yet undertaken the application of Neurolo-
gy to Monomania, in which it must be our only proper
guide. It needs no great sagacity to foresee the benefits
which it may confer in the treatment of that disease.
A still greater benefit, I anticipate, will be conferred upon
humanity, by the successful treatment of an infirmity
which has ever been the source of a frightful mass ofmis-
ery, disease and death-the propensity for intoxicating
drinks. I hope, ere long, to show practically that this is
stric~ly a medicable disease. I find in all my subjects
that I can with ease produce a thirst for ardent spirits, or
remove the appetite when created. The most delicate
females, who have never tasted any thing of the kind, and
who cannot endure the stimulus of a single spoonful in
their natural condition, haYe been made not only to drink
freely and with impunity of strong brandy and whiskey,
but to complain that it was not strong enough, expressing
a suspicion that it had been mixed with water. The
love of stimulus is thus an essential part of our constitu-
lN C.RREliRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 105
tion, and one that may be perfectly controlled. Those
to whom I gave so strong a thirst for ardent spirits, were
as easily made to loathe the drink which they had just
been craving. This appetite, which is not artificial, and
therefore cannot be destroyed by moral influences and
changes of the habits of society, but must remain through
future time associated with human nature as a perpetual
source of danger, can be adequately met only by those
means which control cerebral action more potently than
eloquence, example, or persuasion. 1..,hese means are ap-
plicable when we learn the exact locality of the organ
which gives rise to the love of stimulus.
Finally, our System of Psychology and Physiology
ls completed by the discovery of the true law of co-ope-
ration between cerebral organs, growing out of the mutu-
al relations of the hemispheres of the brain, which may
be expressed thus: Every organ has another portion of
the brain co-operative with its action when excited, sen·-
ing to sustain, and indeed we may even say, making a
part of, its function. The mode in which this is effected,
is as follows: whenever any portion of a hemisphere is
excited,, the circulation of its connected, or opposite half
of the bo'dy is materially modified by its controlling pow-
er, its entire circulation being under the control of its
governing hemisphere. Thus, if any part of the left hem-
isphere is excited, the circulation of the entire right half
of the body, including the right cerebral hemisphere,
would be changed, and the circulation wo'uld be urged
with greater 'impetus to and through particular parts of
the right half of the body and the right hemisphere ;
hence particular organs of the right hemisphere would be
called into play, and others retarded by the influence em-
anating from the left. Each portion of the left modifies.
'in a particular manner, the circulation of the right hem.
N
106 SKETCHES o:r BUCHANAN'S lHSCOVBRIES
isphere. which, in turn, acts equally upon the left; so that
if any organ should be excited in both h'emispheres at
once, which is the usual course of Nature, each hemis-
phere will have in action the co-operative organs excited
by the other. The exact tendency of each organ of one·
hemisphere in exciting the other, is determinable by the
Pathognomic laws, and is also shown by the harmony of
certain functions with each other. Co-operative functions
are, therefore, so located, as to be able to co-operate with
each other by means of the reaction of the hemispheres,
in obedience to the unvarying MATHEMATICAL LAws of
Pathognomy..
The vast magnitude and perfect simplicity of the
Psychologico-Physiological system, of which we have
stated the principal features, would lead to the opinion
that it might be merely an ingeniously devised theory;
but based as it is upon experiments, which may easily be
repeated, that impression cannot exist long with investi~
gating minds. It is characteristic of all sciences, that,.
as the multitude of their facts increases, we perceive
more and more distinctly the general principles and
laws which pervade them; and the heterogeneous mass
which fatigued our comprehension, exhausted our inge-
nuity, and burdened our memory, becomes an orderly ar-
rangement-an easily intelligible and pleasing study.
Most especially does this prove true of the most abstruse
of all studies, the "proper study of mankind," which
began with Gall to assume the form of an exact science.
To this science, under the title of Neurology, the atten-
tion of the cultivators of science has been called; and
if that call is met in the spirit of Philanthrophy, Justice
and Truth, the present generation will enjoy in plenitude,
the blessings of an educational, moralizing and health-
giving science.
LouisVILLE, KY., APRIL 2, 1842.
I.N CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 107
DESCRIPTION' GIVEN llY 1\IESSRS. LYON AND 1\IARTIN,
OF THE EXPERUIENTS \VJIICII WERE MADE UPON
THE!USELVES.
THURSDAY, MAY 5.
DEAR Sm: The Neurological experiments in which we
have recently been engaged, were extremely interesting
and instructive to myself, and the more so, on account of
the extreme caution and scepticism with which you spoke
of the effects which were produced. You seemed deter-
mined to admit nothing which was not clear, distinct,
and positive: yet from the extreme impressibility of your
temperament, were enabled in some cases to describe
phenomena as distinct and satisfactory, as I have ob-
served in any other case.
I would like to have you state, in reply to this note,
what are your recollections of the experiments performed
upon yourself, in what manner you were affected, and
with what degree of vividness and reality the various
changes presented themselves to your mind during the
experiments.
With much respect, yours, &c.,
Jos. R. BucHANA~.
S. S. LvoN.
LouisVILLE, 1\Iay 6, 1842.
DEAR SIR: Your note requesting me to give you some
account of the experiments made last winter in Neurolo-
gy, of which I was the subject, has been received; and,
although I feel totally unable to give it with that exact-
ness and order in the detail of the facts that may be ne-
cessary for your purpose, I feel desirous as far as my re-
collection serYes, to supply you with an account of all
the facts themselves, and of my feelings and observations
at the time.
108 JKETCH~S OF BUCHANAN ' S DlSCOVHP.lHS
On witnessing your' experiment on l\Ir. Comstock,
sometime last winter. for the head ache, after the close of
one of the lectures delivered by you at the time, I be-
came desirous of testing in my own person what then ap
peared to me very extraordinary at least, if not totally
above the power of man; and on the night alluded to,
at my request, you proposed and tried the experiment of
the metallic bar. You presented to me a small bar of
iron or steel, seven or eight inches long and about three
eighths of an inch square, with a polished surface. I was
directed to take one end of the bar, while you took hold
of the other end, which you appeared to grasp tightly, de-
siring me to hold the end in my hand loosely, or without
grasping. I was full of suspicion of imposition, and
was as watchful as I was capable of being, that I should
not be made to deceive myself; at the same time I was
as careful to note any unusual feeling that I might have
at the time of the experiment._ Thus guarded, I must
say that to my great surprise I felt what appeared to me
like the shocks from the Magnetico-Electric machine,
(which I had tried at Dr. Smith's sometime previously,)
with this exception, that the tremulous motion appeared
to be more rapid, and of much less power. The experi-
ment has been repeated often since in yours and the
hands of others, with varied effect and force. In the
hand of some, with sufficient force to benumb the arm;
in the hand of others, with no sensation whatever.
You will, no doubt, recollect that during the time of
the experiments before the committee of the medical
class, that I was made the subject of experiments of an-
other and different order. You, at that time, tried the ef-
fect you might be able to produce in me, by exciting the
different portions of the cerebral mass, by applying the
fingers to the surface of the head and face. At the time
IN ~HEBHAL PHYSIOLOGY. 109
o.f this experiment, I was not acquainted with your loca-
tion of the organs of the mind in the brain. You will
probably recollect, that the effort you made to excite the
posterior portion of the head, did not produce results so
striking as you had anticipated. The only effect of the
application of the fingers to the back part of the head
was, if any, to dull the desire I might have had to con-
tinue the experiment. I did not care about any thing-
was not concerned-perfectly indifferent. This was not
of very long duration, however. I observed a bu~ning
sensation on the head where your fingers were placed,
and desired you to desist.
I recollect you then proposed to the committee to write
the effect you intended to produce, so that I might not be
able to know the effect intended. Several experiments
then followed. You were able to give the committee
satisfaction on many of them. Two only, as near as I
can recollect, failed to satisfy them. The experiment
intended to modify the pulse, and the one intended to di-
rect my thoughts to the future. I was perfectly satisfied
myself, of your most complete and entire success in the
latter. That my tli'oughts were irresistibly directed to
the future, I am fully assured. The committee supposed
that the questions of some one of themselves had given
that tone to my mind, and they did not consider it con-
clusive. I will at this place note, that all the experi-
ments of this character, of which I have been the sub-
ject, have produced a burning sensation on the scalp
where the fingers have been placed. The sensation pro-
duced on any part of the top of my head has been of
such a physically painful nature, that I have not in all
cases been able to carefully note my mental feeling at
the time.
One experiment I will note particularly. At the time
110 IKE1'Cllb:S OF BUCH.ANAN
1
S DlSCOV.iRlES
you were operating to direct my thoughts to the past, the
questions of the Committee led me to suppose you were
trying to operate on the part of the head to induce
thoughts of the future: but I could not direct my thoughts
to the future, although I repeatedly tried to do so. They
immediately returned to the past, and \>\'ere fixed on the
things of my earliest boyhood-of friends who had long
since passed away; and, with all my efforts, I was not
able to dwell on any event that had happened at a less
distant period than twenty years. I was truly disappoint-
ed, when I found that you haq been trying to induce the
very order of feeling I had just passed through.
The part of my head which you are kind enough to
say is in the most active operation, is easily affected. I
am strongly affected by the experiments on the top and
front of the head; ·less so on the side, and much less on
the back of the head.
There were also performed by you a series of experi-
ments, of which I \Vas the subject, in which you proposed
to ascertain if possible, if it was a fact that the different
orga~s when excited would direct the mind to one color
in preference to other colors. Under the operation of
the excitement of most of the different organs of the
brain, my mind most promptly directed itself, or was di-
rected, to various colors ; differing according to the or-
gan operated upon (or the part of the head subjected to
the touch of the fingers .) In almost all of the experi
ments of this character, the choice for positive colors, or
a compound of colors, making a tint of an intermediate
character, was remarkably decided and fixed during the
operation; and any color not in harmony, or the opposite
color, was offensive to the sight in a positive degree.
The experiments of this character were continued, you
are aware, during the period of several days•. \vith uni-
IN CEREBRAl. PHYSIOLOGY. 111
formly the same effect, but in different degrees. S~me
of the operations produced in my mind when the eyes
were closed a positive and vivid__perception of the most
vivid color, which was by a change in the ·operation
promptly changed, and another color substituted in its
stead. Some few experiments were made. in reference
to sounds; but as they were not carried to any great ex-
tent, I am not capable of judging as to the uniformity of
effect produced, or that in all cases the tone received any
very positive fixedness in the mind. Some of the tones
were definitely fixed, as A natural, D natural, F sharp.
You will excuse the manner of this statement; and
should any of the statements need explanation, I shall at
any time be most happy to afford any further explanation
that be required.
Yours, very respectfully,
SIDNEY S. LYON.
DR. Jos. R. BucHANAN.
LomsviLLE, 1\lay 5, 1842.
DEAR SIR: The experiments upon the cerebral func-
tions in which we have recently been engaged, were ex-
tremely interesting and instructive to myself as operator,
and I believe almost as much so to yourself as the sub-
ject.
As you have been the subject, and felt the true char-
acter and exact extent of these operations, much more
definitely than I could conceive them, I would be much
gratified to have your views on the subject in full.
Yours, with respect,
Jos. R. BucH.H'iA~.
A. MARTIN, Res-ident, Marine Hospital.
112 !KETCH:!Li OF BUCHANAN' S DISCOVERI.E.;
Louisville il1arine Hospital, 1\'Iay 6, 1842.
DEAR SIR: Your note of the 5th instant is before me,
in which you request me to give my ·'views in full," in
relation to the experiments that were performed upon
me, by yourself, and particularly my views concerning
NEuROLOGY, previous to the time I was subjected to ex-·
periment.
I do not know that I w~s ever ready to believe
in ghosts and hobgoblins, or to take any thing as-
being true, without the most convincing proof. If my
memory serves me correctly, I saw you for the first
time, sometime in the latter part of November, 184L
I was informed that you had been teaching a new sci-
ence, under the name of Neurology, and that you had
been performing miracles by placing your fingers or-
hands upon certain prominent points of the cranium,
and performing various other manipulations upon the
people's skulls I said to myself, is it possible that a
man possessing ordin~ry sense, will, in this enlightened
age, attempt to palm off so great an imposition upon the
public? \Vill he, said I, come to Louisville and make us
believe that he is an inspired man, and that he has only
to touch the surface of our scalps to take the control of
all our faculties?
In about ten days from the time I first saw you, you
called at the Hospital to obtain a particular skull, GI was
absent,) and left me a note enclosing a ticket fnviting
me to attend your lectures. I came to the conclusion
that I would go, and if possible try to detect, if there was
any thing of a dishonest character connected with your
proceedings. I do not recollect whether any experi-
ments were performed the first night I was there or not;
but this I do remember, that the first experiment I saw
performed, was with a view to lessen the sensibility of
1~ CEREBRAL PHYSIOLOGY. 113
one arm and increase that of the other. The name of
the gentleman upon whom this experiment was per·
formed, I do not remember; but he appeared to be a
man of much respectability and intelligence. Your
fingers were placed upon either side of the head, in the
temporal region. After about ten minutes had elapsed,
your subject said he felt a numbness in one arm and an
increased sensibility in the other. You said to him,
"are you ~ure that you feel a distinct influence from
this?" His reply was, that the effect was very dis-
tinct. I thought the gentleman's imagination had great
effect in making him feel this influence.
The next experiment was performed on Dr. K., and
he, not knowing what effect you wished to produce, I
thought you would fail. But in a few minutes, Dr. K.
said he felt as if he would delight to engage in religious
exercises. His countenance presented a very grave ap-
pearance, and all his features sho,yed that he was in an
unusually serious mood. Your fingers were then re-
moved to a different part of the head, and remained
there a few minutes, when Dr. K's countenance became
greatly altered. Upon being asked if he still felt like
engaging in religious exercises, he burst into a laugh,
and said his religion had left him, and that his greatest
delight would be to make a disturbance or engage in a
fight.
Knowing that his disposition was a very kind and hos-
pitable one, I thought it very strange that he should be thus
atrected from what I considered no cause at all. I again
thouaht his imagination had materially influenced him in
feeli~g these traits of character, which he described.
But when I reflected farther. I saw a great difficulty in
attributing this to his imaginution, as he had no preYions
N
114 SKETCHEiit OF Dl.TCJIJ\NAN
9
S DISCOVERIE~
knowledge of the effect which the experimenter intended
to produce.
The next experiments \Vere performed upon two or
three members of the class successively, and among
others, I was made one of the subjects of experiment.
As I knew what effect you wished to produce in me, I
came to the conclusion that I would resist it to·the last,
and make sure that my imagination did not influence me
to feel at your pleasure. Your fingers had not been
placed in their proper position long, before I felt a curi-
ous sensation about the tip of my tonglile. It is difficult
for me to describe my exact feelings at the time, but :E
felt vexed at being disappointed so far in the :resolution I
had just formed; and whBn you asked me if I felt any
effect from the experiment, I hes-itated to answer, for fear
1 would let you know that you had succeeded in accom-
plishing your purpose. But as you had asked me a civil
question, I felt myself bound to give an answer, and ac-
cordingly replied "No sir," with a lisping sound. The·
members of your class broke out into a hearty laugh,
when they heard me say I did not experience any influ-
ence from your experiment, seeing plainly that I could
not talk without lisping.
This experiment forced me to pay some regard to thC'
doctrines which you were engaged in teaching. I then
fancied that I had a little inclination to lisp in my general
conversation; and, consequently, that the influence which
you had exercised over me, was explained upon that
ground. But it still appeared rather strange why I had
not before noticed it. The following evening I went
again to your room, where I found a number of gentle-
men with whom I was acquainted. Among others, I
saw one "·hom I knew to have been long engaged in
traching such doctrines as would very materially favor
1.:-t CEREIH!,\L PHYSIOLOGY. 115
Neurology. Being assured that it would tend to strength-
en his views of a subject in which he had been so long
and ardently engaged, I had a strong desire to make him
feel that his notions, which he had so zealously and in-
dustriously propagated, were erroneous.
Being fully under the influence of these feelings, I
summoned all my powers of resistance, in order that I
might prove to the -old veteran that he for once was mis-
taken. I did not know what effect you wished to pro-
duce; but I thought~ with my efforts, I would prevent you
from producing any effect whatever.
After placing myself in a chair, much elated with the
resolutions I had just formed, your hands were placed
upon the top of my head and forehead. In the course of
fifteen or twenty minutes, I felt a sensation of stifrness in
my eyelids, together with an inability to keep them open.
Up to that time, I had not found out what you wished to
do; but I soon became convinced that it was your object
to produce sleep. I then endeavored to think of things
of a laughable character, which I thought would more ef-
fectually prevent you from succeeding. It was not long
before I found all my resistance vain. Although perfect
sleep was not produced, I was in such a condition that I
could hear but indistinctly when I was spoken to. I
thought I was in my room, lying upon my bed, and my
room-mate was asking me a great many unnecessary
questions, with a view to agitate me and keep me from
sleeping.
I felt after I was aroused from my sleep, very much
disappointed and confused, to think that I had been so
much overcome,:.¥ after having been so perfectly certain
that I would be able to resist it, and thereby make our
•l\lr. l\1. was so overcome by sleep as to slip from his chair, anti was
arousetl by finding himself falling to the floor. J. R. B.
11U SKETCHES 01', BUCHANAN'S DlSCOV.iRIES
friend (Professor--) doubt his favorite doctrines. I
felt very keenly the same disappointment which I had
been anxious to give the friends of Neurology.• This ex-
periment convinced me that there was much truth in the
new science. I knew very well that it would be an un-
popular thing for me to say that your doctrines were cor-
rect; but I hope always to have sufficient honesty to en-
able me to speak the truth, even if it be unpopular.
In giving a description of my feelings under the exer-
cise of the various cerebral organs, I would remark, that in
my case, the effects must have been independent of any
influence of the imagination, except when I endeavored
to imagine something different from what I might sus-
pect to be your object. It appears to me plain, that tqe
imagination cannot so far influence a 1nan of comnwn
sense, as to induce him to believe that he is sick at
stomach, or has a violent pain in the head, when he has
not in reality. So with regard to your mode of making
manifest the various functions of the cerebral organs.
But to illustrate more fully my point, I cannot see what
imagination would have to do with that of which a per-
son is entirely ignorant. Suppose your object was to
excite the organ of Reverence in a person who was
wholly unacquainted with the location of that organ, the
technical meaning of the term, or both, what influence
could the imagination then have in producing a feeling
of reverence?
I will now proceed to give as faithful an account as I
am able, of the influence which your experiments had
upon me. As you are aware, it is much easier for me to
feel these influences than to describe them; but perhaps
I may be able to give you some idea of them, if I tell
you the first ideas that 'vere suggested to my mind ·when
the influence was first felt. \Vhen those .organs were
IN CiRJi:~RAL PHYSIOLOGY. 117
acted upon, which give the mind exalted and thrilling
ideas of supernatural things, the first effect would be to
cause me to think of such things as would prove the ex-
istence of a superior power who created them. It led
me to reflect upon the vastness of the universe, and the
supreme power which created it, and all things therein.
Indeed, I could not reflect for a moment upon these sub-
je'Cts, without feeling an almost irresistible desire to talk
about them, and attempt to prove the existence of a God
by a reference to portions of creation, the formation of
which, required the agency of a power superior to that
possessed by terrestrial beings.
When those organs which preside over the abdominal
functions are brought into action by your mode of exper-
imenting, (for example, that portion of the brain which
controls the functions of the liver) the first sensation
would be a sense of fullness and weight, or tightness
and constriction in the region of that viscus. ~ lf, "*
\Vhen thirst is excited, {thirst for water,) it comes on
with a dryness in the back part of the mouth, in the re·
gion of the fauces, and is accompanied with a disposition
to be restless and dissatisfied. vVhen a thirst for stimu-
lating drinks is produced, the spirits are depressed,
making me fretful and dissatisfied with things around.
The mind is disposed to go from one thing to another,
and looks with a suspicious feeling on persons who be-
fore were not suspected. * * >.¥: ;r,
The ideas which were presented to the mind when
that part of the brain was called into action which in-
duces one to think of home, were the situation and ap-
pearance of things with which I wns familinl'in the days
of childhood.
If hunger be produced, I feel a desire to speak cross
when questions arc asked, and an unfriendly feeling to-
118 SKETCHES OF BUCH.ANA~'s DlSCOV~RIES
wards animals. Under the excitement of Patriotism,
the mind is directed to the character of those who sup-
ported and protected the institutions of our country-the
battles that were fought, and the insults offered by other
nations to our own country. Playfulness presents to the
mind a variety of inclinations and feelings; it causes us
to feel an increased delight in conversation; a ~esire to
engage in active exercises ; to look at and talk upon sub-
jects of an agreeable and exciting character.
The organ of Destructiveness, when brought into ac-
tion, gives a feeling of delight in seeing things destroyed
and deranged. It is attended with a feeling of shyness
and deceit; and, if indulged in, would lead one to do his
neighbor some injury. It gives a delight in hearing the
fire bell ring, and vexation if it proves to be a falfSe
alarm.
I well remember a circumstance that took place re-
cently, which resulted in a hostile meeting with a resi-
dent of this city, in which my feelirfgs were excited to
the highest pitch of exasperation, and an impression
made upon my mind which kept the scene and all its
feelings continually present by day and by night. I al-
ways feel, after such scenes, a great desire to find some
means by which I can get redress for the injury; and I
am constantly at work, contriving plans for the accom-
plishment of that object. This feeling remains with me
about eight or ten days, before I can control it, by any ef-
fort that I am able to make.
In the afternoon of the same day on which this occur-
rence took place, you called at my room and attempted
to experiment upon me; but to your disappointment,
could not succeed in producing any effect, except upon
those organs which increased my ill-natured propensities.
The next day you called again, and, much to my gratifi-
IN CEP.EllRAL PllYSlOLOGY. 119
cation, I was completely relieved from my unpleasant
feelings . This you did by exciting the moral organs~
and thereby counteracting the strong action which had
been set up in the less friendly ones.*
I find it possible for one, who has had some instruc-
tion in matters of this kind, to influence his own mind
to some extent, by placing the fingers or hands on certain
parts of the cranium. It is a practice frequently made
use of by persons who are wholly unacquainted with
Neurology, or any science connected with it. I have fre- /
quently seen persons, while endeavoring to recollect the
name of some particular person or thing, place their
hand upon their foreheads, and perhaps close their eyes
at the same time ; and in this condition, they vvould re-
main for several minutes, and succeed in recollecting
names and places which they had forgotten. I do not
mean to say, that this can always be done, or that this is
a universal custom; but that it is practised by many, no
one will deny who has taken any pains to observe it.
Mechanics, who are in the habit of using tools that
require to be of a certain temperature, can very readily
judge of the degree of heat, by holding them near the
side of the head, where the organ of sensibility to heat
is located. It is true, they can, and frequently do test the
degree of heat by other means; but experience has taught
them, that they can test the heat, with more exactness by
holding the tool near the side of the head, than by any
other ordinary means they may have at their command.
Numerous are the facts that might be mentioned in
my own personal experience and experiments that I
have performed upon myself; but time will not allow me
•I did not succeed in cou~rolling the excit~n:ent, un~il I operated .up~n
o ne of the moral organs wluch I cnll Tranqudl~ty. Th1s r~stcned h•n: lll
ten or fifteen minu tes to his natural frame of mmd, and b~n1shed the llisa-
grcc:thle rc co ll ~c tion from hi>< thou ~ht~. .J R B.
120 ~KETCHES vP BUCHANAN 'S DISCOVERIES, &c.
to give a detail of them all. I must, therefore, rest con-
tented with the few facts I have enumerated, hoping that
those who may feel interested in this matter, will ex-
amine for themselves. :My duties compel me to close
this communication.
I beg you to accept my grateful acknowledgments for
the valuable instruction which I have received, and for
the pleasure which I have derived from your Neurological
discoveries.
I am sir, with respect,
your humble servant,
AMZI 1\IAHTJN.
DR. JosEPH R. BucHANAN.
To THE READER.-The documents which form this· pam-
phlet, are extracted from the Appendix of the forthcom-
ing ·'Illustrations of Neurology;" in which the principles
of that Science will be illustrated by a series of original
experiments.
