{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__maury___wars_of_the_godly.pdf","mytitle":"Wars Of The Godly","mylang":"de"}
21ae Wars
OF THE GODLY
BY
REUBEN MAURY
ILLUSTRATED
NEW YORK
ROBERT M. McBRIDE & COMPANY
1928
COPYRIGHT • 1928 • BY ROBERT M . McBAIDE & COMPANY
First Publi.rbed April, z W8
THE MARS O! THE GODLY
PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
By permirsiorz of Harper U $rothers
IRISH PROTESTANTS VS. IRISH CATHOLICS
ELM PARK, NEW YORK CITY, JULY 12, 1870
To
MY PARENTS
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
XI THE FIRST SONG OF THE NATIVE-BORN 96
XII TEN YEARS' Mal de Mer 105
XIII A KNOW-NOTHING WIZARD 110
XIV AMATEUR SALESMEN OF HATE 11 7
XV FOR PRESIDENT : DANIEL WEBSTER 122
XVI SECOND WIND 126
XVII FIRST FRUITS 131
XVIII STICKS, STONES, TAR AND FEATHERS 1 35
XIX SLAUGHTER IN VIRGINIA 143
XX SAM FORGETS THE POPE 151
XXI Pop! 155
XXII DEATH RATTLES 160
INTRODUCTORY " MAC " AND " KAP » 3
I AMERICA: CATHOLIC FOR 115 YEARS 13
II THE CREEDS OPEN FIRE 18
III PURITAN VS. PAPIST 24
IV THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE 31
V CATHOLIC INVENTORY ; PROTESTANT ALARM 46
VI THE FIRST NUN ESCAPES : THE FIRST CONVENT
BURNS 5 3
VII PAPER BOMBSHELLS 5 8
VIII A CATHOLIC POLITICAL PARTY 75
IX BLOOD AND FIRE IN PHILADELPHIA 83
X A FIGHTING BISHOP - AND NO FIGHT go
Vill CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
XXIII SKIRMISHES 16q
XXIV SCHOOL WARS 189
XXV THE BRAVE DAYS OF OLD 206
XXVI HOW THE A .P.A. BEGAN 212
XXVII SATOLLI ; CORE ; PANIC ; PAGEANT ; FORGERY 220
XXVIII AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION 231
XXIX BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 247
XXX THE ERA OF THE KLAN 271
XXXI JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 296
BIBLIOGRAPHY 313
ILLUSTRATIONS
PAGE
IRISH PROTESTANTS VS . IRISH CATHOLICS, ELM PARK, NEW
YORK CITY, JULY 12, 1870 Frontispiece
ARCHBISHOP JOHN CARROLL
JOHN JAY (From a bust by Frazee)
SAMUEL FINLEY BREESE MORSE
AN ANTI-CATHOLIC CARTOON OF KNOW-NOTHING TIMES
22
38
54
-"THE KING OF ENGLAND KISSING THE POPE'S
TOE "
ARCHBISHOP JOHN HUGHES OF NEW YORK (1797-1864)
PAGE FROM "KNOW-NOTHING ALMANAC " OF 1856, WITH
70
94
PEN PORTRAIT OF ERASTUS BROOKS, A NEW YORK
KNOW-NOTHING LEADER 118
AN ANTI-CATHOLIC CARTOON OF THE SEVENTIES 134
FOUR LEADERS OF THE A. P. A. 198
WILLIAM, CARDINAL O'CONNELL, ARCHBISHOP OF BOSTON 220
ANTI-CATHOLIC CARTOON FROM THE MENACE, 1911 238
JAMES J. FLAHERTY, EX-SUPREME KNIGHT OF THE
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 262
DR. HIRAM WESLEY EVANS, IMPERIAL WIZARD, KNIGHTS
OF THE Ku KLUX KLAN 278
AN INCIDENT IN POLICE-KLAN RIOT, JAMAICA, L . I., N. Y.,
MEMORIAL DAY, 1927 294
GOVERNOR ALFRED E . SMITH OF NEW YORK 302
SENATOR J. THOMAS HEFLIN (DEM ., ALA.) 310
The Wars of the Godly
the Wars
OF THE GODLY
INTRODUCTORY
u
MAC " AND " KAP "
RED HOT papers, wot y' readin', wot y' readin'
- wot '11 it be, Mac? Tr'boon? Noose? Sure, here
y' are."
" Say listen, Mac, when y' see that red light go
on it means stop, see? Funny some o' you guys
never get wise t' that ."
" I do' know where this train goes to in Brook-
lyn. Better ask a guard, Mac."
Mac : substitute for Sir in the brogue of demo-
cratic America ; synonym to Chief and Boss and
Cap'n. Mac : who among us all, of male gender,
has not been called Mac at least a thousand times
in his adult life? And Mac : in addition to being one
of the commonest coins in the lip currency of the
street, the peg whereon is hung one of the most
edifying legends ever to circulate through the
lodgerooms and the cigar stores of the North
American Republic.
3
4 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
For there is a legend concerning Mac. That
simple monosyllable has a dread cabalistic mean-
ing, did you but know where to seek it and whom
to ask. Provided you are not a communicant of the
Roman Catholic church, or, if you are, provided
you can conceal your allegiance to that faith, you
may hear the tale for the asking wherever two or
three are gathered together in the name of No-
Popery to chant a hymn of hate .
The story goes that Mac is a password ; that it
is tossed from Catholic to Catholic this broad land
over, in the same fashion as was the Junkers' toast
to Der Tag in the years before Der Tag came up
in smoke and thunder ; and that this password
stems from a conspiracy, black as night, to gnaw
loose the foundation stones of the nation and es-
tablish the Roman Catholic church as the religion
of America with the Pope set above the President
in power temporal and power spiritual alike.
Wouldst know the answer to the rebus that is
Mac? Then split asunder the letters composing the
word, and dignify each with capital letter and pe-
riod, thus : M.A.C. When you know the syllables
proper to be added to each letter, the solution un-
winds its mummy wrappings before your popping
eyes.
Mac - so runs the legend - has but one sinis-
ter meaning ; and that meaning is
MAKE AMERICA CATHOLIC
~~ MAC " AND `c KAP " 5
When or by whom the story was first told, no
one knows. It was first printed, in all probability,
by The Menace (now The New Menace), an anti-
Catholic weekly paper published at Aurora, Mis-
souri, and at one time claiming a circulation of over
1,500,000 copies a week. The story whispered
along the channels of lodgeroom and political dis-
trict club until Ku Klux Klan was given an al-
leged rebirth in 1915. The Klan had been telling
the story for eight years or better when these lines
were written.
Shortly before this volume went to press, John
Jay Chapman of New York City gave the legend a
novel twist when, in an open letter to the news-
papers, he charged the Knights of Columbus with
possession of certain banners embroidered with the
letters M.A.C., which they habitually flaunted be-
fore true and horrified American eyes in public pro-
cessions of the order. Mr. Chapman submitted the
allegation as one reason why Alfred E . Smith
should not be elected President of the United
States. The noble knights countered with a verbose
resolution whose general tenor would have done
credit to an old-fashioned Methodist invoker of fire
and brimstone.
Thus the status of the Mac legend late in the
year 1927. It is one of the most far-fetched pieces
of gossip ever evolved about the Church of Rome .
It is one of the most effective of those tales, because
6 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
any one can grasp its connotations in ten seconds ;
and for the same reason it will remain alive as a
jewel of American folklore until the word Mac
shall go to join " Twenty-three, skidoo! " and " 0
you kid! " in the junk shop of the American argot .
But stay. Shall Catholics be the only ones to own
a mystic password wherewith to hearten one an-
other till the great day comes? Shall no backfire be
set up against the sputter of this alleged papal fuse
beneath the keystones of state and nation? Not if
your Ku Kluxers and left-wing Freemasons and
assorted minor haters of Catholicity know it .
Some giant brain in one or another of these
groups has worked out a counter-signal, a talisman
for embattled Protestants on the walls of Zion, a
charm of the tongue equal unto Mac in occult po-
tency and beauteous simplicity. Protestants who
are Protestants - not the " weak-kneed, lily-
livered, Pope-loving, so-called Protestants " so de-
tested of the purists who edit the anti-Catholic and
Klan papers - are now greeting all that portion
of the population unknown to them by name, and
are signing vitriolic letters for newspaper publica-
tion in which every one from the Rev . Dr. S. Parkes
Cadman to Calvin Coolidge is accused of taking
orders direct from the Vatican, with the monosyl-
lable " Kap."
Any reader who has followed with care the un-
scrambling of Mac should be able to dissect Kap
" MAC " AND " KAP " 7
without much assistance. Not to prolong the sus-
pense, it is disclosed that Kap, K.A.P., means
KEEP AMERICA PROTESTANT
Thus the battle lines are drawn ; thus the watch-
words, real and fanciful, gibber around the night .
What does it all mean? Where did it all begin, and
what, if any, will be its end?
When this was written, the United States of
America was driving hell-bent into a national po-
litical fight on a religious question, so-called . It is
hard to imagine Jesus Christ or Gautama Buddha
or St. Francis of Assisi damning professors of
creeds different from their own as idolators and
traitors, or as meddling in Massachusetts politics,
or as urging their governments to step on other
governments because the latter had stepped on
their religious partisans . The word " religious " in
this volume is applied to the Catholic-Protestant
fight, not because it is the proper adjective to use,
but because it is the word most people do use to
denote what goes forward when Christians make
war on one another.
Alfred E. Smith, governor of New York, has at
this writing the backing of a large section of the
Democratic party for the Presidential nomination.
Another section, of equal if not greater strength
but equipped with a less powerful press battery,
opposes him. The fight is practically co-extensive
with the fight over national prohibition, Smith hav-
8 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
ing consistently disapproved that law. Smith's wet-
ness is mentioned by many of Smith's opponents as
their reason for fighting him when they do not wish
to say that they are against any Roman Catholic's
occupying the White House .
Roman Catholics, of whom Smith is one, believe
in the God of the Christians, and the courts have
declared this a Christian nation ; but a Roman
Catholic has never been President of the United
States. Some there are who suppose the Constitu-
tion expressly forbids election of a Roman Catholic
to the Presidency . It is generally conceded at this
writing that Smith's religious beliefs lost him the
Democratic nomination in 1924, though Col . P. H.
Callahan, prominent Catholic dry of Louisville,
has made the startling charge that Smith's backers
in 1924 brought on the " religious " battle over
the Ku Klux Klan in order to halt Smith's
strongest opponent, William G. McAdoo of Cali-
fornia.
But of the fight that rages around Alfred E .
Smith, more in its proper place . It is only the larg-
est single engagement in a war of the creeds which
for years has gone on in the United States . Kate
Sargent has reported in vivid detail, for the Forum,
the political conquest of Massachusetts by Irish
Catholics under the guidance of what amounts to
a political-clerical machine . Texas is one continuous
battleground of Klan and anti-Klan, as are Okla-
"MAC" AND cc KAP " 9
homa, Alabama, Indiana. Senator J. Thomas Heflin
of Alabama keeps himself in the public eye by the
simple device of charging papal windmills every
time a reluctant presiding officer permits him to
climb aboard the Rosinante of his eloquence . The
Oregon school law, which would have killed paro-
chial schools in that state, was sent to the mor-
tician's from the United States Supreme Court's
abattoir of freak legislation so short a time ago as
mid-1925.
What does it all signify? The British colonies,
the Confederation, the United States - all three
- we learned in grade school, were planted on the
rock of religious liberty, of non-discrimination
among sects. True, our schoolbooks discreetly ap-
plied the soft pedal to such sour notes in the his-
torical cantata as Roger Williams' flight from
Puritan Massachusetts because he could not wor-
ship there as he pleased with safety to himself, or
to the oppressions wrought upon Virginia and
Maryland dissenters by Church of England par-
sons in the early eighteenth century, or to the agi-
tation of John Jay and others for express laws
against papists in many a revolutionary constitu-
tional convention of 1776. However, these antique
goings-on, if one heard of them at all, seemed acci-
dents, out of tune with the rhythm of the New
World.
But is the present " religious " conflict in the
10 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
United States a new thing? Has some bitterness
entered into our twentieth-century souls which
was not in the souls of our ancestors?
The answer - as most people know after listen-
ing for ten years to the epithets of " Know-
Nothings! A.P.A.'s! " hurled at the Ku Klux Klan
by its enemies -is that such fights have been
fought in this country before now, and often, and
with great ferocity. A river of religious antago-
nism has flowed down through our history since
Protestants first penetrated the American conti-
nent and took root therein . We in 1928 merely ride
the latest floodcrest of that river . The flood will
subside presently, the river will growl below ground
for perhaps a generation .
This volume is an attempt to trace the course
the stream has followed . So far as the writer
knows, there exists no connected history of " re-
ligious " conflicts in America since the beginning.
There are monographs on single episodes in the
long, long story. Two of these are Humphrey J .
Desmond's The Know-Nothing Party and The
A .P.A. Movement, to both of which this book is
heavily indebted.
An exhaustive history on the subject would fill
several volumes, which could be compiled only
after years of research. This is not an exhaustive
history. Concededly there are omissions herein ; it
" MAC " AND " KAP " i i
is entirely possible that there are mistakes . Letters
calling attention to any of the last named will be
thankfully received and made use of in future edi-
tions if, as we fervently hope, there shall be any
future editions .
No cure for religious prejudice is offered. The
probabilities are that no cure will ever be found,
so long as it shall continue axiomatic that ortho-
doxy is my doxy and heterodoxy is your doxy -
which is to say, so long as human beings shall
continue human beings.
Nor does the book seek to make a case for either
the Protestant or the Catholic side. The writer
happens to have been born and reared a Protes-
tant ; was even, in the bloom of his youth, inducted
into University Klavern, Realm of Virginia, In-
visible Empire, Knights of the Ku Klux Klan,
from which he hastily deducted himself after hav-
ing been urged to believe in the genuineness of
the famous alleged Fourth Degree oath of the
Knights of Columbus and to buy some cheap gents'
haberdashery from a traveling lodge brother who
wore a celluloid collar . But it is his latter-day
notion that neither side in a " religious " contro-
versy deserves any sympathy from anybody ; also,
that " religious " controversies ought to be en-
couraged rather than discouraged among us, so
that we may all be saved from the horrors that
12 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
customarily ensue whenever one Christian body
acquires a disproportionate amount of power in
any nation under God's sun .
For various kinds of assistance rendered in the
preparation of this book, thanks are hereby ex-
tended to Mr. Michael Williams, editor of the
Commonweal (New York City) ; Mr. William
Lloyd Clark, editor of the Rail Splitter (Milan,
Ill .) ; Mr. H. L. Mencken ; Mr. Kenneth Littauer,
of Collier's Weekly ; Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Percy, of
New York City; Messrs. J. A. Parker and Charles
Murphy, of The New Menace (Aurora, Mo.) ; Mr.
Francis M. Crowley, of the National Catholic
Welfare Conference, Washington, D. C. ; Pacific &
Atlantic Photos, Inc., New York City ; Supreme
Secretary W . J . McGinley of the Knights of Co-
lumbus ; Mr. W. A. Hamlett, editor of the Kourier
magazine (Atlanta, Ga.) ; the writer's father (see
page 2o6) ; and Mr. Harcourt Parrish (see page
183, footnote) .
And so, to the sweet story of what has happened
in America every time the Cross has been drafted
either to help keep the Outs out and the Ins in or
to put the Outs in and the Ins out . That is really
all that a " religious " conflict ever has amounted
to in the history of the American commonwealth.
CHAPTER I
AMERICA : CATHOLIC FOR 115 YEARS
SICKENING as the fact may be to all of us
Protestants, it is none the less a fact that the only
Christian denomination to function on the North
American continent for one hundred fifteen years
after Columbus sailed west was the Roman Cath-
olic. And if the assertions of the Catholics be true,
that church was regnant over the souls of the Euro-
peans who inhabited Vinland in the dim days of
Leif Ericsson. America was made Catholic at the
beginning. Later it was made Protestant, if polit-
ical power in the hands of Protestants is the test ;
and if it should become once more politically
Catholic, then that would be but a back-swing of
the ages' pendulum .
Leif Ericsson, according to the Vinland saga of
the Icelander Hauk Erlendsson, was thrown by the
winds on the shores of the country he christened
Vinland in the year 1000 A.D. Leif at this time,
wrote Hauk, was on his way to Greenland as a
missionary of the Christian church, having been
lately converted to Christianity by King Olaf
Tryggvason of Norway. Leif did not settle in Vin-
r3
14 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
land. That was done three years after his acci-
dental discovery of the new shore, by Thorfinn
Karlsefni and his wife Gudrid, who led one hun-
dred sixty people in a four-ship colonizing venture .
Karlsefni appears to have been a Christian, from
the Hauk book ; at any rate, several Scandinavian
clergymen in later times claimed to be descendants
of Thorfinn and Gudrid.
The other version of the Norse discovery of
America, found in the so-called Flatey saga of Ice-
land, credits one Biarni Heriulfsson, an Icelander,
with the discovery of Vinland, and places his
achievement fifteen years earlier in time than Leif
Ericsson's. The Flatey saga does not say whether
Biarni Heriulfsson was a Christian or not . It is pre-
sumable that he was not, if he ever existed at all.
The Ericsson story is the one universally credited
today. Biarni Heriulfsson's name is mentioned here
chiefly for the convenience of any professional
Catholic who may see a chance to work it over by
some necromancy of pseudo-linguistics into, for ex-
ample, Barney Harrington .
News of Vinland's having been discovered by
somebody eventually reached Rome . Norway had
become Christian by order of that same King Olaf
who converted Lief Ericsson, and a single bishopric
embraced the kingdom during all of the eleventh
century. In 1112 Rome created a second see for
the western Viking realms, naming it the see of
AMERICA : CATHOLIC FOR 115 YEARS 15
Gardar. Geographically this see included Green-
land only. Its first bishop was named Eric. Little is
known about the size or the activities of Eric's
flock, and he himself wanders off into the mists of
the sagas and the northern seas in I 12 I, " in search
of Vinland." The see of Gardar was not discon-
tinued, says Catholic history, until the year of
Christopher Columbus' first voyage westward .
If Norse America was Christian at all, then, it
was necessarily Catholic, because Vinland was dis-
covered five hundred years before the Reformation .
Columbus, landing on San Salvador, October 12,
1492, made haste to take possession of the island in
the names of their Catholic majesties Ferdinand
and Isabella of Spain.
Martin Luther nailed his ninety-five theses
against the sale of indulgences on the church door
at Wittenberg, November ii, 15117. Thus, roughly
speaking, began the Reformation. By that year, the
Roman see of Santo Domingo had been five years
laid out and equipped with bishop and clergy.
Within fifteen years after Luther's initial punch at
ecclesiastical corruption, Rome had staked out in
the New World the bishoprics of Santiago de Cuba,
Carolensis of Yucatan, Mexico and Florida . All of
America that Europe had knowledge of was Catho-
lic in name, and Catholic missionaries were sweat-
ing to make it Catholic in fact, by the time the
Protestant Reformation became conscious of a de-
0 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
sire to get out of the ancient church rather than
renovate it from within, and ninety years before the
Pilgrim fathers landed at Plymouth. Damnation
deepest of all, from the modern Anglo-Saxon pope-
hater's viewpoint, the first Britisher to touch Ameri-
can shores, John Cabot, was but an emigrant to
England from Venice, and professed the Roman
Catholic faith.
The first Protestant church in America was
founded at Jamestown, Virginia, in 1607, or one
hundred fifteen years after Columbus' first voyage.
" Representatives of our ancient Church of Eng-
land " did the deed, and so fired the opening gun in
that war of the sects for control of the American
soul which is still being waged . The Pilgrims
brought their non-conformist religion to Massachu-
setts thirteen years later .
Every Protestant coming from England to
America in those years was necessarily a blood foe
of Catholicity. Elizabeth's forty-five-year reign
was lately over. During that period good Queen
Bess had caused to be hanged, drawn and quar-
tered one hundred eighty Catholics as traitors to
the nation - which score equaled one-half the
number of Protestants burned as heretics in five
years under Mary Tudor, Elizabeth's Catholic sis-
ter and predecessor.
It was a life imprisonment offense in England to
possess an Agnus Dei or a rosary, a cross or a re-
AMERICA : CATHOLIC FOR I15 YEARS 17
ligious picture, which the Pope or any Catholic
missionary had blessed. That was but one of Eliza-
beth's laws against popery.
In short, the Church of England had the papists
in England flat upon their backs ; and its delegates
to America grimly purposed to secure in the same
position such Catholics as should show face in the
British New World .
CHAPTER II
THE CREEDS OPEN Fn
CATHOLICS in England, in the early 16oo's,
were fully as anxious to flee to America for religious
liberty as were the dissenters whom the Church of
England was oppressing well-nigh as heartily as it
oppressed the Catholics. Every schoolboy knows
of the royal grant of Maryland to Cecilius Calvert,
Lord Baltimore, in 1633, and the founding of that
colony under him and his brother Leonard .
Not every one knows that George Calvert, the
father of Leonard and Cecilius, had led a body of
both Catholic and Protestant colonists to New-
foundland four years before the Maryland grant.
George allowed his Protestants a minister and his
Catholics a priest. The Protestant cleric shortly
went home to England, where he complained
against Calvert for allowing mass to be said in New-
foundland. Calvert started south with his follow-
ers. He attempted to settle in Virginia, but was
summarily put off the premises when he declined to
take the oath of Protestant supremacy at Governor
Pott's demand.
Religious equality was guaranteed all Maryland
1s
THE CREEDS OPEN FIRE 19
colonists in the charter issued to young Cecilius
Calvert. Within thirty-five years thereafter, screams
that even now have a familiar ring were going up
in Maryland: that the lord proprietor meddled
with elections, he used his veto power too freely, he
gave the good political jobs to Roman Catholics
and his own kinspeople .
The first Calverts meant well, however . The fa-
mous Maryland Act of Toleration was passed in
Leonard's regime (1649), guaranteeing religious
freedom to all Christians who believed in the Trin-
ity. Anabaptists, Jews and unbelievers thus became
the only classes of white people whom Maryland
refused to protect from the ferocities of whatever
Christian sect was strongest in number. So sweep-
ing a renunciation by a state of the right to perse-
cute for the glory of the authorized God had not
been witnessed in the Christian world prior to that
time, and the scandalized excitement stirred up by
the Act of Toleration was immense .
The Act irked especially William Claiborne, new
governor of the colony of Virginia to the south of
Maryland. Claiborne was a staunch Church of Eng-
lander. The hated papists' nearness to his preserves
galled him ; and the papists bade fair to make a rich
plantation state out of the land the king had given
their proprietor .
Claiborne could find no pretext for violence for
some time ; he had to content himself with having a
20 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
law passed levying a fine of one thousand pounds
of tobacco upon any " popish recusant " who should
attempt to hold public office in Virginia . Some poor
devils of Puritans had wandered down to Virginia
from Massachusetts, and Claiborne was able to
vent some of his religious sadism on them .
The chance to smite the Pope came when Puri-
tanism hurled Oliver Cromwell into the govern-
mental saddle in England. Claiborne jumped at the
chance to turn Puritan himself, and forthwith
sailed the ship Reformation to Kent's Island, off
Maryland's eastern shore . He captured the island,
and held it against an indignant attack by Calvert.
From the island Claiborne leapt into Maryland it-
self, drove out the governor, and took over the
colony in the name of the Puritan party . In charge
of his government he placed his man Friday, an ex-
pirate named Thomas Ingle . For two years Ingle
carried on a reign of terror in the best Mary Tudor
or Francisco Pizarro style, wrecking Catholic plan-
tations and deporting two priests to England after
letting them season suitably in a Maryland jail.
Leonard Calvert then gathered a battalion of
Catholics in Virginia, whence he had fled on Clai-
borne's invasion, and returned to Maryland to kick
Ingle out.
The next move on Claiborne's part was to get
himself an appointment from England as commis-
sioner for Maryland . This was in 1652, Leonard
THE CREEDS OPEN FIRE 21
Calvert having died meanwhile. Claiborne over-
threw the Maryland Catholic government, called
an assembly from which Catholics were barred, and
passed a new law which began by saying : " It is
hereby enacted and declared that none who pro-
fess and exercise the Popish (commonly called the
Roman Catholic) religion, can be protected in
this province by the laws of England . . . . " A
fierce battle on the Severn river followed Clai-
borne's second triumph. Claiborne's Puritan war-
riors won out, celebrating the victory by shooting
to death four prisoners, of whom three were
Catholics.
Maryland was a football of battling sects from
this time off and on until the American Revolution
one hundred twenty-four years later .
The Puritans had first seized the government
from the Catholics. Then, in I6go, the Rev . Mr.
Coode, a distinctly militant churchman of the An-
glican communion, snatched control from both
Puritan and Catholic and declared his church the
state religion of Maryland . Mr. Coode levied a tax
upon every one in Maryland, regardless of religious
affiliation, of forty pounds of tobacco per year to
finance the building of Anglican churches and the
support of Anglican ministers . This tobacco tax
remained in force in both Virginia and Maryland
for nearly a century, with the result, as a Catholic
historian acidly puts it, that " the Anglican clergy
became tobacco dealers."
22 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
What probably stands champion of anti-Catholic
laws for all time in America was enacted in Mary-
land in 1704, under Governor Seymour. On pain of
penalties payable in sterling, tobacco or jail duty,
Catholics were forbidden by this statute (i) to
baptize any child into their church, (2) to proselyte,
(3) to purchase land, (4) to inherit land, or (5) to
send a child abroad for education in the Catholic
faith. A sort of footnote to the law provided for
collection of a twenty-pound fine from any one im-
porting an Irish farmhand . The law quickly became
a dead letter.
" From the year 1717 or 1718," the Catholics re-
ported later, " to the year 1751, we were undis-
turbed, and though deprived of our rights and
privileges, we enjoyed peace and quiet ."
That conditions were even better than that for
the Catholics at one time during this period is indi-
cated by a paragraph of the Anglican historian
Hawks, written in 1734
"The papists did not fail to take advantage of
the trouble in the church of which we have spoken
(i.e., laxity of Anglican clergy and laity) . . . .
They flattered themselves that they were about to
acquire the ascendancy, as under the administra-
tion of Governor Calvert, many of them had been
put into offices of honor and profit which they still
retained . Most diligent were the priests in dis-
tributing pamphlets among the people, the object
Courtesy The U iversal K owledge o datso
ARCHBISHOP JOHN CARROLL
THE CREEDS OPEN FmE 23
of which was to maintain the Church of Rome ; and
in all cases when a female of the Romish commun-
ion intermarried with a Protestant, it was custom-
ary to make a previous contract that all the daugh-
ters of the marriage should be educated as papists ."
The war between England and France for con-
trol of eastern America lasted from 1755 until 1763 .
France was a Catholic nation . Hence, anti-papal
feeling flamed once more in Britain's colonies . The
usual fantastics were gone through again, by both
sides, to be quashed only when the American Revo-
lution threw colonial Protestants and Catholics into
the same boat of danger.
CHAPTER III
PURITAN VS. PAPIST
PLYMOUTH and Massachusetts Bay colonies
were founded by Separatists who had broken with
the Church of England and wanted freedom to wor-
ship God in their own way. They were no more
solicitous that dissenters from Puritan beliefs
should be free to worship in their way than is the
generality of Christian sects anywhere on the same
issue. They were rather less so, in fact . Their hound-
ing of the first independent, then Baptist Roger
Williams into Rhode Island is the best-known ex-
ample of the Puritans' attitude toward what we call
religious freedom today.
Eleven years after the Plymouth Rock episode,
Massachusetts Bay colony expelled from its terri-
tory one Sir Christopher Gardner, on suspicion of
being a Catholic. In the same year (163 i) the Gen-
eral Court of the colony formally denounced the
opinion, put forth by a clergyman of the accepted
faith, that the Roman Catholic church might rea-
sonably be considered a true church of Christ . Six-
teen years after these incidents, Massachusetts
enacted a law which forbade any Jesuit to enter the
24
PURITAN VS. PAPIST 2 5
colony on pain of banishment and decreed the foul
fellow's instant death should he return after having
been banished.
Early in the eighteenth century (1704) a Father
Rale set up a Catholic mission for the Indians in
Maine and built a church at Norridgewock, on the
Kennebec river. The example set by Sir Francis
Drake, in firing St. Augustine one hundred nineteen
years before, was followed by an expedition from
Massachusetts which burned Father Rale's church
and ordered the priest to keep his contaminating
fingers off the simple Indians. Rale returned to his
labors and rebuilt the church .
The Massachusetts people left him in peace for
seventeen years following their first sortie . Then
they burned his church again, the holy father being
secreted in a hollow log nearby while this Protes-
tant auto da fe went forward .
New York saw its first Protestant-Catholic clash
about twenty years after the deputies of James,
Duke of York and Albany, persuaded Peter Stuy-
vesant to turn over the Dutch province of New
Netherland to British rule . James was brother to
King Charles II of England, and a Catholic con-
vert. In due course he appointed a Catholic to gov-
ern New York. This ancient forerunner of Alfred E .
Smith was Col. Thomas Dongan. His tenure of
office lasted from 1683 to 1688, terminating in a
No-Popery explosion.
26 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
The highest crime Dongan appears to have com-
mitted against Protestantism was to put two Catho-
lic priests on the public payroll at f 6o a year to
minister to his spiritual needs . He saw to it that the
first legislative assembly of his administration
should pass a bill of rights guaranteeing absolute
religious liberty to all sects (October 30, 1683) .
England, since the restoration of the Covenanter-
Catholic-Anglican-or-what-will-you Charles II,
had been a roaring battleground of the sects. A man
might go to sleep a confirmed Church of Englander,
wake up to find it necessary, if he wished to pre-
serve life and property, to hie him to the nearest
Catholic priest for recantation, and be forced to
turn non-conformist ere nightfall . Charles II him-
self, for the same sordid reasons, professed alle-
giance to every Christian division active in Britain
at one time or another during his reign, and occa-
sionally to two or three of them at once .
Dongan ruled New York in peace for more than
four years. Charles died in that period . Much talk
was made in England about the desirability of boot-
ing out Charles's successor James II and calling the
Protestant King William of Holland to the British
throne. The English movement, as always, had its
repercussion in the colonies . William sailed for Eng-
land when the conspiracy ripened ; and no sooner
did news of his landing reach New York than one
Jacob Leisler loosed a No-Popery war-whoop and
PURITAN VS. PAPIST 2 7
captained a mob attack on the Dongan govern-
ment. Dongan passed out of the picture, hunted
like any Huguenot at St . Bartholomew. He made his
escape, however, and bore out the saying that you
can't beat the Irish by bobbing up some time later
to succeed to the earldom of Limerick .
Upon William's successful leap to the throne of
England, New York's bill of rights was promptly
abolished, the Church of England was established
in the colony and Catholics were barred from pub-
lic office. The Earl of Bellemont's governorship
( 1698-1701 ) saw the enactment of "An Act
Against Jesuits and Popish Priests " which decreed
life imprisonment for any priest who should stay in
New York or come in thereafter, execution of any
imprisoned priest who should escape jail and be
recaptured, and a fine of £2 50 with three days in
the pillory for any one harboring such a reverend
fugitive. In the following year the vote was taken
away from "Papists and Popish recusants . . .
henceforth and forever," in both New York and
Massachusetts .
In fact, to quote C . J. Stille (Pennsylvania
Magazine of History, Vol. IX, p. 375) :
" Throughout the colonies at the beginning of
the eighteenth century the man who did not con-
form to the established religion of the colony . . .
if he were a Roman Catholic was everywhere
28 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
wholly disfranchised . For him there was not even
the legal right of public worship."
The Romish priests prospered greatly among the
Indians in Florida ; so greatly that in 1684 the Eng-
lish in the Carolinas won over the Yamassee Indians
and induced them to sack the Santa Catalina mis-
sion. The expedition brought back several Catholic
Indians to be sold into slavery in the Carolinas .
William Penn, Quaker founder of Pennsylvania,
wrote a flaming No-Popery book in his younger
years. When he set up his Quaker Commonwealth
in America, however, he did his best to establish
religious freedom for all . Nevertheless, by 1693,
or eleven years after the issuance of Penn's final
charter, no public officer in the colony could hold
his job without first solemnly denying the Real
Presence and declaring the Roman mass idolatrous.
By an act of 1730, none but Protestants were per-
mitted to be naturalized or to hold lands whereon
to build churches, schools and hospitals. Be it re-
corded, though, that these enactments were by
order of the British crown, and that officialdom in
Pennsylvania itself swiftly let them become dead
letters so far as it dared .
In the southernmost British colony, Georgia,
Governor Oglethorpe opened war about the middle
of the eighteenth century on the Florida Spaniards .
The fight was partly " religious," chiefly territorial.
PURITAN VS. PAPIST 29
Its feature number was a siege of St . Augustine, in
1740, which the Spaniards successfully fought off .
Oglethorpe's war had a curious echo in New
York. He sent a letter north, in which he warned
the other British colonies to be on the lookout for
Spanish spies . Most of these rascals, he promised,
would prove to be Roman Catholic priests .
An Anglican chapel in New York City had lately
been burned, and four or five persons executed as
guilty of arson . New York read Oglethorpe's letter
with breathless interest, and forthwith clearly per-
ceived that the fire had been the work of dastardly
papist plotters . No Catholic priest was available
for sacrifice within the city . But there was a non-
juring Church of England dominie by the name of
John Ury. This poor devil was seized, charged with
the twin crimes of being a Roman Catholic and
having led the conspiracy for which the other peo-
ple already had been executed, and was hanged by
the neck until dead on August 15, 1741 .
Boston saw ghosts about the same time . Possibly
the harsh treatment accorded the Pope's minions
in this city had reduced them to a state in which
they feared to speak above a whisper ; but you
never could be sure. On September 9, 1746, the
town meeting named a committee " to take care
and prevent any Danger the Town may be in from
Roman Catholics residing here ."
And what was the net result of this century and
30 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
a quarter of Catholic-hating and Catholic-baiting
in the colonies of Britain? An editorial in the Mary-
land Gazette of September 1 7, 1754, reported
progress in these words :
" Does Popery increase in this Province? The
great number of Popish chapels, and the crowds
that resort to them, as well as the great number of
their youth sent this year to foreign popish sem-
inaries for education, prove to a demonstration that
it does. Moreover, many popish priests and Jesuits
hold sundry large tracts of land, manors and other
tenements, and in several of them have dwelling
houses where they live in a collegiate manner, hav-
ing public Mass-Houses, where they exercise their
religious functions, etc., with the greatest industry
and without controul . . . . "
CHAPTER IV
THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE
FROM a decade prior to the American Revolu-
tion until some fifteen years after our second war
with Great Britain, Americans had something im-
portant to think about and sweat about almost
every minute of every day . Immense decisions clam-
ored to be made ; real crises convulsed a child-
nation which had to fight for its life among adult
nations ; men were jerked out of their selfishnesses
and vanities and forced to be men or sink .
The ghostly differences, naturally, slumbered
almost dreamlessly from 1763 to 1830 . Yet there
were nightmares of a sort throughout the period .
In 1763 Great Britain finished her war on France
and the Indians in North America. Out of the two
great Catholic powers, France and Spain, she
wrung the Treaty of Paris of that year . This docu-
ment cleared most of Louisiana - a much larger
territory than the present state - of French and
Spanish influence. France had quit Canada three
years before, riding high on the toe of the British
boot, when the Marquis de Vaudreuil capitulated at
Montreal to General Lord Jeffrey Amherst Amherst
of wide-sung fame.
3T
32 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
The end of the colonial wars was a conclusive
victory for the English . In colonial minds, Britain
and Protestantism were safe in North America .
Pressure on the colonial papists accordingly eased
off immediately after the 1 763 treaty. The Prot-
estants could afford to be generous .
Further than that, Britain, with her swollen pop-
ulation, considered herself forced to sweat her
American possessions by every conceivable species
of taxation ; wherefore her American posssessions
meditated more seriously with each new dawn the
proposal to give Britain as hearty a pop in the jaw
as lay within their power to deliver .
Catholic rum makers were stung in pocket no less
sharply than were Protestant by the suddenly stif-
fened Molasses Act. A papist might hate a heretic
for denying the Real Presence, but the two saw
equally red when the Stamp Act was saddled on
them by Parliament and an army of officials poured
into the country to enforce the Act . Both could feel
the injustice of taxation without representation,
though neither could read the other's sacred litera-
ture and feel safe from hellfire .
The Catholics, moreover, had suffered one hun-
dred fifty years of persecution in the colonies at the
hands of Britishers . It would have been astounding
if Catholics had not proved to be among the hot-
test of the American Revolutionists, as they did.
For the sake of revenge and for economic reasons,
THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE 33
they had to take arms for independence. This they
did in spite of the Quebec Act, which Parliament
craftily passed the year before the battle of Lex-
ington. This Act granted full civil and religious
liberty to the Roman Catholic church and its com-
municants throughout Canada . Instantly, of course,
the colonies that were to become the States en-
visaged a British-Roman plot to enslave the Ameri-
can continent. John Jay - a young New York
lawyer whose public career was to end only with
the Chief Justiceship of the United States Supreme
Court - wrote for the Continental Congress its
famous "Address to the People of Great Britain,"
a part of which was a red-eyed protest against
the mother country's action in " establishing
the Roman Catholic religion in the province of
Quebec."
After the Declaration of Independence, the col-
onies found themselves States, at least in name,
with a pressing need for constitutions wherewith to
govern themselves. In New York John Jay fought
Gouverneur Morris and Robert Livingston for a
constitutional provision against naturalizing Catho-
lics -and won. To disarm Catholics who had al-
ready slipped under the bar of citizenship, the oath
prescribed for public officers was so worded that
Catholics could not take it without renouncing their
faith.
New Jersey's first constitution ruled Catholics
34 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
bluntly out of all public offices. No one who " de-
nied the truth of the Protestant religion " could
hold office in North Carolina, while South Caro-
lina's constitution declared that " the Protestant
religion is the religion of this state " and promised
religious equality to all Protestant sects.
Catholics were made the equals of Protestants by
the revolutionary constitutions of Virginia, Penn-
sylvania, Delaware and Maryland .
The United States, governed under a constitution
in which religious tests for Federal office were pro-
hibited and national laws respecting the establish-
ment of any religion tabu, could boast of one state
where creed controlled eligibility to office as late as
the year of our Lord 1877 . This state was New
Hampshire. New Jersey did not rub its last reli-
gious law off the books until 1844. Massachusetts
taxed Catholics for the support of Protestant
churches up to 1833.
One of General Washington's early official acts
as commander-in-chief of the Revolutionary armies
was to forbid a " Pope Day " celebration planned
by some of his jolly Continentals for November 5,
1776. Pope Day was the New England incarnation
of the British Guy Fawkes Day . Fawkes having
headed the renowned Gunpowder Plot in 1605
against the life of King James I, and the plot hav-
ing been concededly Catholic in complexion, the
anniversary of his arrest was celebrated by pious
THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE 3 5
British Protestants for many a year, and indeed
to this day remains a holiday .
New England's quaint custom, on November 5
of each year, was to parade effigies of the Pope
through all the principal villages and towns, finally
giving them to the flames in the public squares,
while all present rejoiced and gave thanks . Wash-
ington, advised that his New England contingents
were making ready to solemnize Pope Day in their
usual fashion, announced with engaging naivete
that " we are soliciting . . . friendship and alli-
ance of the people of Canada," and must on no ac-
count insult those people's religion .
In 1778, when the French became allies of the
Revolutionists, the Tories smelled a papal plot
once more. Benedict Arnold tossed the only pinch
of red fire into this flareup of religious excite-
ment ; for the rest, it was a pale and feeble flicker .
Arnold's contribution was a printed broadside to
the Continental Army, promulgated October 20,
178o, from within the British lines where he was
dodging the consequences of his treason .
"Do you know," Arnold asked the soldiers of
Washington, " that the eye which guides this pen,
lately saw your mean and profligate Congress at
Mass for the soul of a Roman Catholic in purga-
tory, and participating in the rites of a Church
against whose anti-Christian corruptions your
36 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
pious ancestors would have witnessed with their
blood? "
But the Continentals, Catholic and Protestant
and freethinker, were witnessing with their own
blood against the corruptions of Great Britain, so
that Arnold's fulminations drifted down the wind
with the rest of the Tory propaganda.
The British attempted to raise a regiment of
Roman Catholics in Philadelphia in the third year
of the war. Of this, the unaffiliated historian Ban-
croft says, " In Philadelphia, Howe had been able
to form a regiment of Catholics," while the official
Catholic historian Shea says, "The very reverse
is true. It never existed except on paper." Shea
would seem to have the better of the argument,
since the Catholics had nothing to gain from the
British.
Then came Yorktown, and the surrender of Corn-
wallis ; the Articles of Confederation, and four
years wherein thirteen bled-white states tried to
function as thirteen allied Great Powers . The at-
tempt nearly killed the new nation, but it was saved
in the nick of time by the Constitutional Conven-
tion of 1787 and the results of the proceedings
there had.
Certain Catholic historians make no little out-
cry anent the intolerance of some of the Founding
Fathers and the terrific fight which they assert the
THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE 3 7
Catholics had to put up for their rights while the
Constitution was going the rounds of the state
legislatures for ratification . Unless the scriveners
who reported the legislative debates were seduced
by Protestants into striking religious discussions
from their transcripts, the Catholic historians exag-
gerate the facts .
Nor do these gentlemen throw open all stops and
tread heavily on the loud pedal when - and if -
discussing another Treaty of Paris : that of 1783 .
Under this treaty, Florida went back to Spanish
rule, not to become definitely a part of the United
States for thirty-five years. The Spanish govern-
ment refused to guarantee religious freedom to Brit-
ish Protestants in Florida, and the bulk of these
took wing for the north, where their own gang was
in power.
The religious issue came up at the Philadelphia
convention when Charles Pinckney inserted into
the original draft of the Constitution the clause
" . . . but no religious test shall ever be required
as a qualification to any office or public trust under
the United States."
Almost nobody questioned this clause at the
Philadelphia convention. Luther Martin, bellowing
enemy of the proposed constitution, reported later
to the Maryland legislature that
" there were some members so unfashionable as
38 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
to think that a belief in the existence of a Deity,
and of a state of future rewards and punishments
would be some security for the good conduct of the
rulers, and that in a Christian country it would be
at least decent to hold out some distinction between
the professors of christianity, and downright infi-
delity or paganism."
Of all the states, Massachusetts suffered the
severest gagging when requested to swallow the
religious-test clause . Several Congregationalist
clergymen sat in the Massachusetts convention.
These gentlemen proved more tolerant toward the
clause than did some of their lay brethren . Congre-
gationalism was the next thing to an established
church in Massachusetts at that time - which fact
makes one wonder how broad-minded the dominies
would have been could they have foreseen the
Catholic ascendancy in the Massachusetts of
today.
At any rate, a Major Lusk " shuddered " at the
thought " that Roman Catholics, Papists, and Pa-
gans might be introduced into office, and that
Popery and the Inquisition may be established in
America."
To this the Rev. Mr. Backus gave benignant
reply that " nothing is more evident, both in rea-
son, and the holy scriptures, than that religion is
ever a matter between God and individuals . . .
By permission of Harper U Brothers
JOHN JAY
(From a bust by Frazee)
THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE 39
the imposing of religious tests hath been the great-
est engine of tyranny in the world," concluding
that, with the anti-test clause in the Constitution,
Congress could not possibly establish " Popery, or
some other tyrannical way of worship " as the
religion of the United States .
The Rev. Mr. Shute went Mr . Backus one bet-
ter by declaring that, as for him, he supposed, nay,
he even believed, " that there are worthy charac-
ters among men of every denomination - among
the Quakers - the Baptists - the Church of Eng-
land - " his voice trailed off to a bemused under-
tone of astonishment at his own broad-mindedness
-" the Papists."
In the other states, so far as disclosed by Elli-
ott's four-volume compilation of the reported de-
bates, the religious-test clause was treated as small
matter for argument and a highly desirable insur-
ance policy against clerics' ambitions . Certainly
Rhode Island and North Carolina, which had to be
blackjacked into ratification later, made no moun-
tain of bones about this feature of the Constitution .
The new code being ratified by the necessary
majority of states, the Federalist party organized
the first central government . Captained by John
Adams and Alexander Hamilton, it remained in
power until Thomas Jefferson and his Democratic
Republicans dynamited it in I8oo. Where re-
ligion was concerned, the Federalists were indeed
40 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
the Native Americans, the Know-Nothings, the
Ku Kluxers of their day, as Catholic writers point
out with a heavy accompaniment of sobs . They dis-
trusted Catholicity as they distrusted the French-
liberal ideas of Jefferson and any other thought or
institution not British-made or home-made . A good-
size wing of the Federalist party would gladly have
crowned Washington king ; the Tories of Revolu-
tionary days were almost all Federalists now, and
nothing would have pleased them more than a re-
turn to British rule. Federalism, in short, was the
party of that element which John Jay once suc-
cinctly called " the property " ; anti-Federalism and
Jeffersonian democracy were the haven for the
Outs of all descriptions -small farmers, city and
town low-castes, German and Irish immigrants on
the northeast seaboard.
To say, then, that the Federalists passed the
Alien and Sedition Acts and in other ways fought
the foreigner's entry into this country primarily
because they were anti-Catholics, is as sensible as
to say that S . S. Kresge approves the prohibition
law in our day because he thinks it is ordained of
God and not because he believes it means more
money for him. The Federalists opposed any one
who threatened by his shrewdness and energy to
lay hands on their money or property or political
jobs ; and many members of Jefferson's mobs who
did so threaten happened to be Roman Catholics.
THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE 41
Hence, what little Catholic-baiting there was in the
days of Citizen Genet, the Whisky Insurrection,
the Alien and Sedition Acts, the Porcupine papers
of William Cobbett, the musical comedy war with
France, the birth and howling infancy of the So-
ciety of St. Tammany in New York, Jefferson's
labored climb to the Presidency .
Those were the days, too, in Ireland, of Wolfe
Tone, Napper Tandy, Rowan, Reynolds and Rus-
sell, and the wild doings of their United Irishmen .
Bloody rebellions against England were hatched
every night in Dublin and Wexford ; the French
and the Dutch were sending raiding expeditions to
help the Irish and so hamstring the English ; and
many an Irish patriot was finding it necessary to
board ship for America without farewell cere-
monies. Tandy, Rowan and Reynolds spent several
months in Philadelphia in 1795, where Wolfe Tone
himself joined them for a brief spell . Ireland's popu-
lation was swelling at a frightful rate under the
spur of the potato ; the great famine was yet to
come, but the overflow of the human crop was
either hurling itself on British cannon mouths or
migrating to America.
And so, at this point, the Catholic-Protestant
fight in the United States took on the complexion
it wears today, and has worn since the first gutter
battle between New York nativists and New York
Micks in the year 18o6. From Jefferson's time to
42 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Coolidge's, it has been the Irish Catholic who has
drawn most of the rage of the native American
Protestant white Gentile, and the same Catholic
who has returned most of the Protestant punches
with all possible vigor.
The Irish are the extremists of all the world . If
you are a person whose flesh does not creep and
scalp wrinkle at sight of an Irishman, then Irish-
men to you are the most lovable people that
breathe. You can love an Irishman or you can hate
him. You cannot think impartially about him -
probably because he cannot think impartially about
any person, idea or institution within his ken .
He is the prime romanticist, the champion of
amour, the master of intrigue, the boldest, merriest
fighter, the most deadly politician and organizer
and drummer-up of mob sentiment, in all the world .
In business life, he concludes his career either by
being fired or being elected chairman of the board
of directors. In politics, he makes the ablest states-
man - e.g., Alfred E. Smith ; or the perfect apothe-
osis of the ward heeler - e.g., Charles F. Murphy ;
or the gaudiest rascal - e.g., any Irish member of
Tweed's inner circle. In the Catholic hierarchy the
Irishman makes the shrewdest worker for Mother
Church under the sun, and in realms where Italians
cannot clip his wings he flies the highest : how many
American cardinals and archbishops have been non-
Irishmen?
THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE 43
The Union's first " religious " fight of modern
character broke out in New York City at Christ-
mastide in i 8o6. A gang of native-born Americans
gathered outside St . Peter's Roman Catholic church
on Barclay Street with intent to enhance God's
glory by breaking up the Christmas Eve services .
But no services were held . The following night the
.Irish rallied at St . Peter's in force, expecting and
probably hoping for trouble . The Protestants
charged. When a city watchman interfered, an
Irishman stabbed and killed him . To avenge this
insult to law and order, the mob chased the Irish
all around lower Manhattan. The Irish section
would have been looted and burned but for the ap-
pearance of Mayor De Witt Clinton, who argued
the natives out of their frenzy.
Tammany Hall began in 1789 as a red-hot,
roughneck, native American order - though it was
founded by the Irishman William Mooney . It
could not remain an enemy to the Federalist aristo-
crats and to the immigrant at the same time, and
still survive as a political club . In 18o9 the first
Irish Catholic ran on a Tammany-supported ticket
for a New York office, when Patrick McKay was
nominated for the Assembly .
In 1812, the Society of United Irishmen boasted
that six Congressmen were members of the organ-
ization. Needless to state, all six voted heartily for
the second war against Britain . That year, too, saw
44 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
a special appeal issued by the Democrats of New
York City to the Irish voters as a bloc, beseeching
them to turn out at an election and prove their
gratitude to the party which had shown itself their
friend.
While the War of 1812 lagged along, religious
prejudice was forgotten, as it always is in wartime .
De Witt Clinton, by now a city judge, handed down
a decision in the second year of the war which ex-
cused Catholic priests from testifying in court to
secrets revealed to them in the confessional .
The " era of good feeling " followed the peace
treaty of 1815, lasting into 1825. General Andrew
Jackson was making warlike passes at Spain in
Florida; the Missouri Compromise was sweating
its weary way through the Congress ; President
Monroe was meditating his Doctrine which was to
fence off the western hemisphere from Europe ;
Lafayette visited the United States ; the " Virginia-
Massachusetts dynasty " at Washington was about
to fall before the spoilsmen of Jackson ; and in such
exciting, constructive times the only outburst of a
mass emotion related to religious hate was the Anti-
Masonic movement of 1826-32 .
Anti-Masonry has only this to do with the sub-
ject of religious conflict : its flareup must have set
many minds to dreaming dreams and imagining the
wind's whistling to be the keen of spirits eery and
uncouth. Thus the movement played its part in pre-
THE SIXTY-SEVEN YEARS' TRUCE 45
paring Americans to receive the deluge of escaped
nuns' confessions, ex-priests' exposures and Euro-
pean travelers' tales of Romish plots which was to
roll over them during the thirties and forties .
William Morgan, of Batavia, New York, in 1826
announced his intention to publish a book which
would contain all the secrets of Freemasonry . His
book finally reached print, but Morgan himself was
first arrested on a charge of debt, then taken in a
closed carriage to Niagara Falls, and never seen
again. A body found below the falls some days later
was alleged to be Morgan's. This was never proved ;
and when Thurlow Weed, an Anti-Masonic leader,
was later asked whether he believed the body to be
that of Morgan, he replied cynically that " it was
a good enough Morgan till after election ."
The enemies of Masonry organized a political
party which by 1830 was the strongest New York
adversary of Jackson's Democrats. It nominated a
Presidential ticket in 1831, but William Wirt, its
candidate, carried only Vermont . The Anti-Masonic
Jonah was shortly afterward swallowed up in the
belly of the Whig whale .
Americans were thinking, though, of plots, secret
organizations, closed carriages speeding conspira-
tors' victims to a dreadful doom, bodies found at
the crossroads. . . . The time was ripe for an-
other wave of religious mania .
CHAPTER V
CATHOLIC INVENTORY ; PROTESTANT ALARM
NATIVE Americanism, the politico-religious
storm which roared through the thirties and forties
and culminated in the tornado that was Know-
Nothingism in the fifties, arose not solely from the
Anti-Masonic furore. The Catholic church itself
had no little to do with bringing down the light-
nings of nativism on its timeless head .
In 1829, the Roman church in the United States
looked about from the eminence of its metropoli-
tanate at Baltimore and perceived that it was
grown exceeding large. Fifty years of complete
liberty under the Constitution had enabled it to be-
come an organization big with membership, regi-
mented by an aggressive clergy, rich in lands and
buildings and money.
There were nearly 360,000 Catholics in a total
population of about twelve and one-half millions.
Not a town in New England but had its Catholic
congregation and priest, while the rest of the coun-
try thus far settled was divided into sees and vi-
cariates apostolic of varying degrees of prosperity .
The church operated six seminaries, nine colleges
46
CATHOLIC INVENTORY ; PROTESTANT ALARM 47
under ecclesiastical control (three of them univer-
sities), thirty-three nunneries and monasteries, and
a startling number of hospitals and schools. Rome
had given her no cardinal as yet, but no longer was
she a mere puny offshoot from the monster tree
of religion that overspread Europe and South
America.
What more fitting and politic than to call a
council of the hierarchy of all this North American
province of the church? Archbishop John Carroll -
first titular head of the Roman Catholic church in
the United States and reckoned by some the great-
est churchman ever seen in the land -had long
dreamed of the day when such a session might be
held for the proper edification of the faithful and
the - if one may impute harsh motives to so
saintly a man -discomfiture of American Prot-
estants.
Carroll's successor James, Archbishop Whitfield
approached the Pope as to the advisability of the
meeting. Leo XII sanctioned the plan by his breve
Quo Longius. The First Provincial Council of
Catholicity in America met at Baltimore on Octo-
ber i, 1829.
The spectacle must have been a gorgeous one, to
any Catholic layman attending the open sessions,
a terrifying one to any Protestant who could over-
come his abhorrence of popery sufficiently to do
likewise. Daily, the prelates in their shining robes
48 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
and towering miters convened, deliberated, dis-
tilled the essence of their wisdom-which the
Catholic hierarchy possessed and possesses in gen-
erous measure - to the written page.
Besides such eminent suffragans of Baltimore as
Bishop John Dubois of New York, John England
of Charleston and Benedict J . Flaget of Bardstown,
there were present in goodly number lesser clerical
lights, theologians, vicars-general of realms outside
the Baltimore metropolitanate, and even one ad-
ministrator sede vacante.
Charles Carroll of Carrollton, lone Catholic
signer of the Declaration of Independence, lived to
be also the only surviving signer. One day in that
autumn of 1829, the entire council proceeded to his
estate near Baltimore, to pay its respects to the
ninety-six-year-old veteran of the times that tried
men's souls.
A quartet of the decrees promulgated by the
council were of a nature to set Protestant teeth on
edge. There were thirty-eight of these in all, most
of them having to do with matters perfunctory and
administrative only . But into four of the decrees
the Catholic prelates managed to pack as much
dynamite for Protestants to use against them and
their church as could well have been encased in that
number of short pronouncements .
Decree No. 9 warned Catholics to have nothing
to do with " corrupt translations of the Bible "--
CATHOLIC INVENTORY ; PROTESTANT ALARM 49
meaning, of course, the King James version used by
the Protestants - and to stand or fall on the Cath-
olic version .
No. 17, to quote the evasive language of the
Catholic historian Shea," regarded baptism of chil-
dren of non-Catholic parents where there was a
prospect of the child being brought up a Catholic ."
Nos. 34 and 35 concerned the elementary schools
and the teaching therein. The former urged that, as
speedily as might be, Catholic parishes should build
Catholic schools " to save children, especially those
of the poor, from perversion " (Shea's language
again) . The latter had to do with the preparation
of schoolbooks suitable to be studied by Catholic
children.
Thus was marked out a new sector in the reli-
gious war in America along which the guns still
bark. Many a bloody engagement has been had
on that part of the fighting front, from Bishop
Hughes's sortie against the Protestant-controlled
public school funds of New York City in the early
forties to the Supreme Court's slaughter of the
Oregon school law in 1925 .
James Harper and his Native Americans bel-
lowed against the Catholic church's position on the
education of children in the forties ; Know-Nothing
broadsides lambasted it in the fifties ; Tom Nast
cartooned priests as training cannon on the Statue
of Liberty in the time of Tweed ; the A.P.A. grew
50 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
fat for a season on the morsel when Bryan was in
his prime, as did The Menace a half-generation
later ; the Ku Klux Klan has raved over it in our
day ; and as 192 7 marched down its last lap, the
reincarnated Menace, then functioning as The New
Menace, had the following remarks to make about
Catholicity and the common schools :
" The school issue looks us squarely in the face .
We have reached the parting of the ways. Our na-
tional destiny is at stake . We must choose between
the schools of Rome and those of America . The
alternative is darkness or light, illiteracy or educa-
tion. Latin America exemplified the former ; the
United States, the latter . . . .
" There is but one righteous solution of the prob-
lem before us. The public schools must continue in-
comparably superior to all others . Their very
excellence must command the favor of all loyal
citizens. No foreign government, whether civil or
ecclesiastical, must be permitted further to project
a rival system here or to exclude American children
from American schools."
The Catholic church made its school philosophy
clearer and more positive with every provincial and
plenary council in the United States after 1829 .
Its third and last plenary council, held at Balti-
more in 1884, issued a solemn command that Cath-
CATHOLIC INVENTORY; PROTESTANT ALARM 51
olic parents send their children " to the parish or
other truly Catholic schools, unless, indeed, the
bishop of the diocese judge that in a particular case
other provision may be permitted ."
Not only had the Catholic church in America
cause to rejoice, as it did, at that first council in
1829. In the same year the Catholics in Great
Britain won their long fight to throw overboard the
laws which held them under the Protestant toe .
Britain rang with the battle for Catholic equality
from 1780 to 1829.
The British No-Popery fight turned on the ques-
tion of the Pope's superiority, as acknowledged by
Catholics and as denied by the established Angli-
can church.
The position of British patriots toward Catholics
was expressed in the offer : " Give up your claims
for your Pope, and you can have some of our civil
rights."
In 1790, some fifteen hundred Roman Catholic
bishops and laymen in Britain accepted the Prot-
estant condition . The Great Protest, signed by
this group, proclaimed : " We acknowledge no in-
fallibility in the Pope ." This, of course, was long
before the Vatican Council of 187o, at which the
Ultramontane faction succeeded in dogmatizing
the Pope's infallibility when, speaking ex cathedra,
he pronounces any doctrine touching faith or
morality to be binding on the, whole church .
52 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
The Relief Act sped through Parliament on pub-
lication of the Great Protest, and the heavier disa-
bilities were removed from the shoulders of all
Catholics who would renounce the authority of the
Pope in matters temporal . Ten years more, and the
Catholics opened their drive to get rid of every legal
difference between themselves and Protestants in
Britain. This fight endured from 18oo to 1829 .
George III was bitterly opposed to granting the
Catholics another inch, entertaining, as he did, the
presentiment that they would take the proverbial
mile. But George IV failed to oppose the Catholic
claims, and in 1829 Parliament passed the second
Catholic Relief Act, whereunder, with but the
slightest exceptions, a British Catholic became as
good a man as a British Protestant .
Baltimore's Catholic fiesta of the same year,
plus the victory of the Catholics in Britain, focused
American attention on the church which had pros-
pered unhampered since 1763 ; and great was the
consternation among Protestant clerics when they
perceived the size to which their common enemy
had grown.
CHAPTER VI
THE FIRST NUN ESCAPES ; THE FIRST
CONVENT BURNS
INTELLIGENCE, news, penetrated the Ameri-
can ken far more slowly in those days than it does
now. It was not until two years after 1829 that
Lyman Beecher, Congregationalist sire to the hell-
raising Harriet Beecher Stowe and the potent
Henry Ward Beecher, cut loose at his Hanover
Street church in Boston a series of anti-Catholic
sermons. His motive was simple and obvious : there
were too many Catholics in and about Boston to
suit his tastes .
In 1833 one Rebecca Reed entered the Ursuline
convent at Charlestown, Massachusetts, as a pro-
bationer. She must pass six months in this status in
order to become eligible for the veil, but before the
time elapsed she fled the nunnery, in secret and by
night. The things Rebecca told of having witnessed
within the institution were interesting enough to
set tongues wagging throughout Boston . All her
reports came under the same head as that old
Chinese proverb which gently muses : " The nun-
nery stands across the road from the monastery .
There is nothing in that ; but there may be."
53
54 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Miss Reed became the pet of the more ardent
Protestants of Boston, the abhorred of all the Cath-
olics. So effective was the whispering campaign
she waged single-tongued that before a month was
out she had all the Protestant enthusiasts ravening
for Catholic blood.
Nothing of serious nature occurred until, in the
summer following, another nun in the same Ursu-
line convent became hysterical and imitated Re-
becca Reed's secret flight . Sister Mary John, for
such was this second deserter's name, speedily re-
pented and returned to the convent under the wing
of her brother. But a rumor got about to the effect
that Sister Mary John was held prisoner by the
silent sisters. A near-riot took place, and the Bos-
ton selectmen visited the convent and talked with
Sister Mary John in person, hoping to satisfy the
town that she had returned of her own free will and
was not in need of salvage by brawny nativists.
Religious frenzy once aroused, however, is not
to be appeased with such sops as investigation by
local bigwigs. That night (it was August i i, 1834),
some five or six hundred defenders of Protestant-
ism, American womanhood and Old Glory stormed
the convent, wrecked it from garret to coal bin,
drove out the nuns, and burned the building to the
ground.
No one was killed or injured . Harrison Grey Otis
presided at a meeting in Faneuil Hall the next
By permission of Houghton Mifflin Company
SAMUEL FINLEY BREESE MORSE
THE FIRST NUN ESCAPES 55
morning, and resolutions cursing the convent burn-
ers were thundered forth to be relayed over the
nation. The Catholic bishop, Fenwick, forbade his
followers to take any revenge . Thirteen of the riot-
ers were tried, one convicted. Bishop Fenwick then
pressed for this man's pardon, and obtained it after
the man had served a decent spell in jail .
By such historians as have not slipped on their
galoshes and stepped gingerly around all religious
mud puddles, the burning of the Ursuline convent is
set as the official opening of the Native American
period in this country.
At about the same time, in New York City, Sam-
uel Finley Breese Morse was training one of his
intellect's numerous heavy guns on the Church of
Rome. Morse, as every one knows, was the in-
ventor of the telegraph . He was also an artist of
genuine talent, and it was not until he turned forty
that he began to nose seriously into the deeper
mysteries of electricity. Further than that, Morse
had a religious twist reminiscent of Sir Isaac
Newton.
He had but lately returned from a three years'
stay in Europe, spent in studying the Old Masters,
when Rebecca Reed flew the Ursuline coop . On the
homebound vessel Morse's brain had suddenly
flashed him the idea for the electric telegraph, and
from his lips had burst the famous remark : " If the
presence of electricity can be made visible in any
56 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
part of the circuit, I see no reason why intelligence
may not be transmitted by electricity ." The mo-
ment he quit the ship at New York, he plunged
into his long fight to wrest the telegraph from the
grip of nature.
But during his stay in Europe, Morse had learned
of the Leopold Foundation . This was a Catholic
society organized at Vienna for the express purpose
of aiding the expansion of the Catholic church in
the United States. To the emotional side of Morse's
brain, the Leopold Foundation's existence indicated
a plot of the Roman hierarchy to gain control of
American politics and society . The case is a curious
analogue to the visions of an International Jewish
Plot which in our times found their way into Henry
Ford's Dearborn Independent, all unbeknownst to
Mr. Ford .
Morse took time out from his labors over the
telegraph to write a series of twelve letters to the
New York Observer. He signed them with the pen
name Brutus, but acknowledged the authorship
later. The letters were reprinted, editorially com-
mented upon, read from Protestant pulpits, be-
labored by Catholic priests and editors, and alto-
gether made a terrific sensation . They were later
published in book form, under the title A Foreign
Conspiracy Against the Liberties of the United
States, and bearing the solemn imprimatur of four
New York Protestant ministers . The book galloped
through multitudinous editions .
THE FIRST NUN ESCAPES 57
Take the word of one who knows that Morse's
Foreign Conspiracy is bombastic, windy, a fearful
bore from cover to cover. A passage is selected at
random
" Do Popish Bishops or Priests consult the peo-
ple? Have the people any voice in ecclesiastical
matters? Can the people vote their own taxes? or
are they imposed upon them by irresponsible
priests? Do the bishops and priests account for the
manner in which they spend the people's money?
Has Popery here adopted the American principle of
RESPONSIBILITY TO THE PEOPLE ; a re-
sponsibility which gives the most insignificant con-
tributor of his money towards any object, a right to
examine into the manner in which it is disbursed?
No! the people account to their priests in all cases,
not the priests to the people in any case."
Thus Morse drooled for one hundred fifty-odd
pages. But his book sold widely, and so brought in
a few of the not too numerous pennies on which
Morse subsisted during the years in which he was
bringing the telegraph into existence and to the
attention of Congress. Possibly the good Lord per-
mitted Himself a wink in the direction of the arch-
angel Michael when He perceived a scientist thus
hacking out a bit of a living for himself at the ex-
pense of the church whose medieval managers re-
laxed Bruno to the secular arm and made Galileo
eat the truths he had uttered .
CHAPTER VII
PAPER BOMBSHELLS
THE Catholics at this time (the early thirties)
were beginning to realize the power of the press in a
country where the press could say practically what
it pleased.
Bishop Benedict J. Fenwick of Boston estab-
lished the Catholic Expostulator in 1830, and in the
same year certain brethren of the Society of Jesus
founded the Boston Jesuit. The New York Truth
Teller was long a doughty battler for Catholicity.
The Catholic Herald was initiated at Philadelphia
in 1833 by the Rev. John Hughes, later archbishop
of New York, mainly to furnish Father Hughes a
vehicle through which to carry on a bitter war of
words with the Presbyterian clergyman Dr . John
Breckinridge. Hughes's ordinary, Bishop Francis
Patrick Kenrick, was earnestly opposed to the Her-
ald and the aims of its founder, but Kenrick was
not the last man with whom Hughes had his own
way.
Perceiving that the papists were thus diligent to
avail themselves of the weapon which print af-
forded, a group of evangelical clergymen in New
58
PAPER BOMBSHELLS 59
York City started a paper of their own. This organ
was the American Protestant Vindicator, and its
first issue came out on August 20, 1834 .
You may boast of the anti-Roman hellfire that
snorts from the nostrils of your Fellowship Forums
or your Rail Splitters today ; but you have not seen
the American Protestant Vindicator . There was an
anti-Catholic paper that was an anti-Catholic pa-
per. Its bound volumes give off a whiff of smoke
to this day, when a library attendant, with a heave
and a grunt, digs them out of his more remote
arcana. When those boys wished to denounce, they
named names and used epithets which would have
appalled Watterson or Greeley - which indicates
that ministers were less fearful of libel suits in
those days than in these .
The Vindicator's page size was nearly as large as
that of the present-day New York Times or Chi-
cago Tribune. Eight pages made up one issue, and
the journal came out weekly. Immediately below
the ornately lettered name of the paper rode the
catchline, in smoldering black type : " Who is like
unto the Beast? Who is able to make war with him?
-Rev. XIII, 4 ."
" Romanism " was the simple title of the first
issue's leading article, as it might have been the
title of all articles the paper published from first to
last. It had been " transmitted by a Christian
Brother, whose elegant lucubrations we hope often
6o THE WARS OF THE GODLY
to insert in the Protestant Vindicator," and was " a
masterly development of that most mischievous
dogma of Jesuitism, ' the end justifies the means ."'
Article two was an enlivening treatise on " The
Grasping Character of the Romish Priesthood,"
while number three called attention for a column or
more to " The Contrast Between Protestantism
and Popery," with Protestantism winning on all
points, and the front page concluded with an ac-
count of a Christian father's melancholy experi-
ences in an attempt to educate his daughter, cap-
tioned " Popish Female Seminaries ."
Page two betrayed the source of these fiery de-
nunciations of the Beast : twelve clergymen were
listed in the editorial flag as " stated contributors ."
All were residents of New York or Philadelphia and
vicinity. They were, if it is desired to know, the
Rev. Drs. Eli Baldwin, George Bowne, John Breck-
inridge, William C. Brownlee, Beriah Green, James
Lillie, Duncan Macaulay, A . Maclay, John N .
M'Leod, John G. Morris, W. Patton, A. Stark,
and 0 . Winslow . The Boston Jesuit called them all
Methodists in one of its equally fiery diatribes
against Protestantism, but some of the gentlemen's
names would suggest a group of Presbyterians on
the Vindicator board. Certain it is that there were
no Episcopalians, because the Vindicator consist-
ently flattered the Episcopal church during the
whole of its lifetime of nearly four years . It was
PAPER BOMBSHELLS 61
equally obsequious toward the Congregationalists,
while displaying a decent contempt for such uit-
landers as the Unitarians and the Perfectionists .
The paper's third issue began a serial reprint of
Samuel F. B . Morse's Foreign Conspiracy. Other
regular features for the delectation of good Prot-
estants were frightful editorial battles with the
various Catholic papers ; bits of gossip about priests
and nuns " reported on reliable authority," or
" told to us by a gentleman lately from Georgia " ;
bloody oaths which Catholic priests were supposed
to take on entering the company of the Beast ; jokes
with an anti-papal tang, such as the one about the
man who saw an Irishman digging a ditch in a New
York street and remarked, "Why, Pat, that pit will
soon be deep enough for one of the dungeons of the
Spanish Inquisition," to which Pat replied, " Faith,
an' thot's where we'll be putting some o' th' here-
tics one o' these days ."
Some choice books were advertised for sale by
the publishing house which printed the paper (Nor-
wood Browne, Ira G . Wisner & Co., of 17 Ann St.,
later of 114 Nassau St., New York City) . The Nun,
by Mrs. Sherwood, seems to have been a favorite,
as was also Lorette, History o f Louise, Daughter o f
a Canadian Nun ( anonymous ) . Of the History of
the Spanish Inquisition, for sale at fifty cents a
copy, it was said in the advertisement that " every
Sunday school library ought to possess a copy, that
62 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
the boys and girls may learn the value of religious
liberty and evangelical truth ." Rebecca Reed's
book, Six Months in a Convent, was going for
thirty-seven cents a copy a year after its publica-
tion, but a sequel was selling like hot cakes at fifty
cents. Anthony Gavin's Master Key to Popery, by
" a gentleman who had been a Romish priest, after
his conversion to Christianity," and Richard Bax-
ter's Jesuit Juggling - Forty Popish Frauds De-
tected and Disclosed were listed as excellent pur-
chases for the Protestant Christian in search of
reading matter to hold his faith at the boiling point .
But the beat, the scoop, the seemingly immortal
triumph of the American Protestant Vindicator's
career was its ballyhooing for that enormous lit-
erary success, The Awful Disclosures o f Maria
Monk. This book is called by some Catholic com-
mentators the Uncle Tom's Cabin of anti-
Catholicism in America ; by others the palm is
handed to Rebecca Reed's Six Months in a
Convent. Both masterpieces rolled out of the bind-
eries within a year of each other, and in one or the
other of them you can find the first telling of every
convent horror tale told by every " escaped nun "
who has caused rustic and small-town eyes to pop
with lewd fascination from that day to this .
Rebecca's story has been told in a previous sec-
tion. Maria Monk's narrative was of coarser,
sterner, and hence more gorgeous stuff .
PAPER BOMBSHELLS 63
Maria was a lady of few years and lamentably
doubtful virtue who was incarcerated in the Hotel
Dieu, a Catholic asylum at Montreal operated by
nuns for girls of her character. The commitment
was made on request of Maria's mother . After she
had spent some months, first in the Congregational,
or Grey, nunnery, and then in the Black, or Hotel
Dieu, nunnery, one of her gentlemen friends helped
Maria to escape her holy keepers and flee from
Montreal to New York City. There she fell in with
one J. J. Slocum, to whom she told a weird and
horrible tale.
Slocum sensed the material for a thriller . With a
couple of cronies, he sequestered Maria from the
efforts of a New York priest to encompass her re-
turn to Montreal, and made her repeat her story
several times, since it grew better with each re-
telling. The result was a rich and odorous manu-
script, joint product of Maria, Slocum, and Slo-
cum's partners.
A New York publishing house, now one of the
nation's largest and most highly respected, bought
the book and published it through a dummy firm
composed of two of its employees .
Maria's allegations were the usual ones, which
any one who has listened to an " escaped nun " in
this day knows by heart, but which were new and
racy when first she broached them . There was one
chapter devoted to the murder of a recalcitrant nun,
64 THE WARs OF THE GODLY
which Maria claimed to have seen committed by
personal order of Bishop Latigne of Montreal . An-
other chapter averred that, on taking the veil,
Maria had been advised that one of the sisterhood's
secret practices was illicit intercourse with the
priests of the Montreal district, all of whom were
said to have access to the nunnery through an
underground passageway. Maria told it as Gospel
truth, too, that babies were frequently born to
nuns, summarily baptized, smothered, and de-
posited in a lime pit in the nunnery cellar . She
blamed her own baby, to whom she gave birth in
Bellevue, on one of the priests .
" It was uncommon [she remarked] to find com-
punction expressed by any of the nuns. Habit ren-
ders us insensible to the sufferings of others, and
careless about our own sins . I had become so hard-
ened myself that I find it difficult to rid myself of
many of my former false principles and views of
right and wrong."
This mephitic book outsold Rebecca Reed's by
thousands of copies, its sales-record standing su-
preme in America until Harriet Beecher Stowe pro-
duced Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Maria made a lecture tour of the Atlantic States .
She was received in the best Protestant circles as a
soul snatched by a blessed miracle from the hideous
grip of Rome. She wrote a sequel to her first vol-
PAPER BOMBSHELLS 65
ume, naming it Further Disclosures o f Maria
Monk. Her career came to a close when -several
impartial committees and individuals having vis-
ited the Hotel Dieu and given it a clean bill of
health-she herself was taken in adultery and
committed anew to a home for incorrigible girls,
where she died.
The book is still to be had from various anti-
Catholic publishing houses, its prevailing price per
copy being fifty cents. The present-day editions are
sadly botched and bear signs of repeated editings
to comply with obscenity statutes . Maria was un-
questionably the champion of all " escaped nuns,"
and the literary ghosts who concocted her book
could have taught a few tricks to the ablest ghost
that guides the halting pens of men of achievement
today.
All this excitement in the world of impolite letters
could not fail to have its influence on the politics of
the middle thirties. Nor could it fail to inflame the
passions of the Irish in the cities.
On March 13, 1835, the New York Protestant
Association met at Broadway Hall to discuss the
question, " Is Popery compatible with civil lib-
erty?" The association having been organized " to
spread the knowledge of the Gospel truth and show
wherein it is inconsistent with the tenets and dog-
mas of Popery," it was a fairly safe bet as to what
answer the body's deliberations would produce .
66 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
As if to clinch the affirmative victory by concrete
demonstration, a crowd of Irish Catholics broke
into the hall and mobbed the meeting . Lamps were
smashed, benches splintered, more than one beaver
hat perished. The Catholic clergy next morning
roundly scolded the defenders of the faith ; but the
Native American party, till now a puny handful
of immigrant-haters, had won its martyrs.
The Native Americans allied themselves with
the Whigs in New York City's election soon after
the March riot, but the Democrats, or Loco-focos,
beat this combination . The Whig-Native American
fusion at the next election recognized Samuel F . B.
Morse's services to the No-Popery cause by nom-
inating him for mayor . Again the fusion lost to the
Democrats.
Two years later, however, the city was snatched
from the papacy by the election of the fusion can-
didate Aaron Clark . But, alas! only for a fleeting
moment was popery outdone. Clark, the low fellow,
turned one hundred per cent Whig as soon as he
was declared winner, and forgot all his nativist sup-
porters when it came to dealing out the good city
jobs.
The Native American party cut no more figure
in New York politics, or in any other, for four years
following Clark's apostasy .
At least two controversies between clerics of the
Catholic and Protestant faiths enlivened the thir-
PAPER BOMBSHELLS 67
ties, while such books as The Illustrations of Pop-
ery (anonymous) ; The Principles of The Church-
man Stated and Explained, in Distinction from
the Corruptions o f the Church o f Rome, and From
the Errors of Certain Protestant Sects, by John
Henry Hobart, Episcopal bishop of New York ;
The Church o f Rome in her Primitive Purity Com-
pared With the Church of Rome at the Present
Day, by Episcopal Bishop Hopkins of Vermont,
kept the shells popping around the feet of the em-
battled Romanists.
The first and most intriguing of these controver-
sies was that waged by Father John Hughes and
the Presbyterian Dr. John Breckinridge, both of
Philadelphia, throughout the first nine months of
the year 1833
Breckinridge began the fight by challenging the
Catholic priesthood, in an article in the Christian
Advocate, to produce some champion who would
meet him, Breckinridge, " on the broad field of this
important and vital discussion," i.e., on the ques-
tion " Is the Protestant religion the religion of
Christ? "
Hughes, then a young and aggressive priest in
search of ways to advancement in the hierarchy,
was prompt to snatch up Breckinridge's gage of
battle. The preliminaries were swiftly arranged .
Breckinridge was to publish his articles in the Phil-
adelphia Presbyterian, while Hughes undertook to
68 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
start a paper of his own, the Catholic Herald, in
which to publish his contentions, as well as to re-
print Breckinridge's . They agreed that the dispute
was to be " conducted in the language of decorum,
and in a spirit of Christian politeness .
Hughes wrote the first letter in the series, basing
it on the proposition that Protestantism cannot
be the religion of Christ, because its rule of faith
is the Bible alone, which Christ could not have
established as the guide for His church since it
was not completed until at least fifty years after
His death.
" In this whole controversy," Hughes further
stipulated, " every inch of ground which is not dis-
puted by you shall be looked upon as so much
given up to the cause of Catholicity and truth ."
In Breckinridge's rejoinder, his first of the series,
he used no more un-Christian or indecorous words
than " pretension," " absurd," and " most pre-
sumptuous."
Hughes came back in his second letter with the
following rabbit punch, among others :
" I have read your letter carefully ; and although
you attempt to neutralize my reasoning by recrim-
inations and glosses, which are ingenious enough,
still I am utterly unable to discover anything, that
reaches the difficulty, or approaches the character
of manly argument ."
PAPER BOMBSHELLS 69
The present writer has not been able to exhume
the files of the Catholic Herald or the Presbyterian
for those long-dead days. He has, however, un-
earthed the book in which the discussions were
printed in full. It is a book of some five hundred
pages, each of which carries over five hundred
words. At page 252, these reverend gentlemen
finished the preliminary argument as to what con-
stituted Protestantism's rule of faith. They were
reveling by now in such mudslinging as the follow-
ing from Hughes -
" I began this controversy to reason, but not to
quarrel, with you. And whether you are pleased to
represent me as' the fashionable, learned, and pow-
erful Mr. Hughes,' or as ` a garrulous daw,' is a
matter of trivial importance to the question, to the
public, and myself . But I would simply remark,
that I have not attempted to depreciate your tal-
ents or qualifications . In fact, the way the world
goes, talents and qualifications are quite unneces-
sary for the man who undertakes to combat the
Catholic religion . The task requires only a bold and
irresponsible pen."
-and as this from Breckinridge -
" In a word, a new era has come in our country .
The American people will promptly see, `who the
serpent is ( to use your own illustration) that
stings the bosom that warms it .' They will hence-
70 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
forth know where to send their children for educa-
tion, and when to contribute in generous and
abused confidence, to build the schools, and con-
vents, and chapels, that are to train the children
to call their parents heretics; and are arising
to re-establish a religion which never did, never
will, and never can, permit a free-government, or
religious toleration . The people are awake or awak-
ing; and you must change your system, or lose your
prize."
For another two hundred fifty pages they battled
over the question at issue . Breckinridge closed his
side of the debate thus crushingly :
" . . . truth compels me to confess, that from
the beginning of this controversy, to the present
time, I have not for a moment had the fear of the
Rev. John Hughes, nor of his ' Lord God the Pope,'
before my eyes ! No, Sir, I thank my God, that the
time is not yet come, and it is my grand object in
this controversy to keep that day far off, when the
`THREAT 'of a Roman priest can make me trem-
ble for my reputation, my liberty, or my hopes of
heaven. Even the Bulls of your master become
very harmless animals, when sent to pasture on our
happy soil. Your arrogant and impotent threats
only show what you would do if you could."
The threat concerned a quotation from an an-
cient writer which Hughes claimed Breckinridge
had garbled.
AN ANTI-CATHOLIC CARTOON OF KNOW-NOTHING TIMES
" THE KING OF ENGLAND KISSING THE POPE 'S TOE "
PAPER BOMBSHELLS 71
But the battle was not over, as Breckinridge had
fondly supposed it to be. The Presbyterian re-
printed a postscript to the controversy, which
Hughes published in his paper. Here, after a total
of more than 2 50,000 words had been discharged
by the two knights of the Lord, Hughes recalled
that the question for debate had originally been,
" Is the Protestant religion the religion of Christ?"
and taxed Breckinridge with having failed thus far
to tell what the Protestant religion was.
Breckinridge now challenged Hughes to a public
debate. Perhaps the Presbyterian divine's good
right arm was threatened with writer's cramp .
Hughes declined to take the stump, on the ground
that Breckinridge would infallibly quote authori-
ties that were purely imaginary, or passages purely
imaginary from genuine authorities, and thus un-
fairly confound Hughes's sweet Christian sim-
plicity. At this juncture Breckinridge was called
away from Philadelphia, - luckily, for otherwise
the controversy might have been continued inter-
minably.
The other famous battle of clerical wits in that
decade was the controversy waged in the Charles-
ton (S. C.) Courier between the Rev. Dr. R.
Fuller of Beaufort, Baptist, and the Catholic
bishop John England of the diocese of Charleston
-" Dagger John," as the Protestant papers were
fond of calling him from his custom of signing
himself " 'John, Bishop of Charleston."
72 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
A temperance society's scrivener made a slurring
comparison, in a petition to the South Carolina
legislature, between the state liquor licensing sys-
tem then in force and the alleged practice of the
medieval Roman Chancery of selling the privilege
to sin before the sin was committed . Bishop Eng-
land took up the cudgels for his church, while Dr .
Fuller rushed to the defense of Protestantism . The
Charleston Courier was the only party to the fight
which lost: the space was not paid for until, about
midway in the argument, the paper published this
melancholy note :
" The editors of the Courier give notice that as
the correspondence is voluminous, and may be very
long, they will charge for it as an advertisement if
continued."
England replied to this announcement with an-
other five-page letter, a promise to pay the bill,
and a merry jest -this latter Fuller termed an
appeal to the readers' baser passions .
The argument began with Fuller's citation, as
authority for the temperance scribe's slur, of the
Taxe de la chancellerie Romaine, ou Boutique du
Pape, published at Lyons in 1564 . England de-
nounced the book as a forgery, with exhaustive
citations and a brilliantly legalistic impeachment
of the books Fuller adduced as witnesses to its
PAPER BOMBSHELLS 73
genuineness . All this the good bishop did at first in
a vigorous, tolerant fashion, as befitted a comfort-
able old gentleman assailed on a topic near his
heart but aware that the gates of hell could not
prevail against his church .
Shortly the pair took to splitting hairs of doc-
trine, however, and hurling at each other long
volleys of Latin, lifted mainly from the proceedings
of the third Lateran council . They covered pretty
thoroughly the favorite subjects of John Hus, the
Council of Constance, the Council of Trent,
Wyclif, and the Spanish Inquisition . When they
reached the then state of Ireland under the Roman
Catholic clergy, England became mired in a fifty-
page defense of his Irish brethren and the original
question was sunk without a trace .
The debate was printed in book form at Balti-
more in 1839, under the title Letters Concerning
the Roman Chancery.
James Gordon Bennett founded the New York
Herald in 1833 . Bennett was educated for the
Catholic clergy in Ireland, but escaped that destiny
by a last-minute bolt to the United States . The
Catholic-Protestant war that was raging when he
established the Herald was thus good grist for
Bennett's mill, since he knew a thing or two about
theology and realized to the full the truth of
Jefferson's remark, in a letter to Elbridge Gerry,
74 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
that " the printers . . . like the clergy, live by the
zeal they can kindle, and the schisms they can
create."
Bennett played both ends of the religious fight
against the middle, to his own profit . He was
denounced one week by the Protestant Vindicator
as a worm, a vulture and a Jesuit, hugged as a
redeemed heretic the next . The Catholic Truth
Teller was his friend when the Vindicator was
hating him. Between the two camps, Bennett's
sheet gathered in the pennies of the unregenerate
mob, which then as now keenly enjoyed the fulmi-
nations of the clerics .
CHAPTER VIII .
A CATHOLIC POLITICAL PARTY
EVERY one knows that the Protestant churches,
or at least many of the Evangelical clergy, dabble
in politics on occasion . The Anti-Saloon league,
preening itself as " the church in action against the
saloon," is the most prominent case in point of our
times, with the Methodist Board of Temperance,
Prohibition and Public Morals and the Federal
Council of Churches of Christ in America furnish-
ing other striking examples .
Said the Epworth Herald in mid-1927, in what
the Anti-Saloon League of New Jersey hailed as a
" masterly editorial":
" The liquor men have made a discovery equaled
only by that brilliantly sensational report that Hol-
land has been captured by the Dutch .
" A Chicago official of the United Society of
Brewers and Liquor Sellers said the other day,
`Whenever church organizations meddle with poli-
tics and assume to dictate to lawmaking bodies,
they should be treated as political organizations .'
" Of course! But why grow excited about it?
Have the saloon people just found out that the
75
76 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
church is in politics? It is, just the same as it ought
to be whenever an enemy of right living and public
morals gets into politics.
" A ferret worth its salt follows wherever the
rats go. If the saloon had kept out of politics the
church would not have gone in . But the church
must follow the saloon wherever it goes, because
it is a part of the church's business to exterminate
the saloon.
" So the church is not merely willing to be
treated as a political organization in the fight
against the saloon, but insists on being so regarded .
" Mr. Koeling will have no trouble in putting
this label on the church . But he need not exert him-
self. The church put on that badge herself and will
not take it off until the saloon as a political power
is deader than slavery."
The Protestant clergy in the North numbered
many a red-hot Abolitionist in pre-Civil War days ;
even in the early years of the Union one sect was
aggressive enough to call forth from Thomas
Jefferson a statement to the effect that the Presby-
terian church was the most arrogant and ambitious
of all religious bodies .
All this being true and known to the whole pub-
lic, it is equally a fact that Protestant laymen
rarely admit to being in politics as church people.
There is usually a righteous-sounding alibi. To one
A CATHOLIC POLITICAL PARTY 77
type of mind, that is something in their favor ; it
signifies a regard for the decencies, if nothing
more. To another, it constitutes a deplorable lack of
frankness : why not admit that the organization
is after secular power, and so clear the atmosphere?
To the Roman Catholic church goes the credit
or the dishonor, whichever you choose to call it, of
having put into an American election campaign a
ticket made up of Catholics, pledged to obtain
certain measures desired by Catholics and opposed
by Protestants, and known without qualification
as the Catholic ticket .
The event occurred a long time ago - in 184 1,
to be exact. There were extenuating circumstances,
if such can be said to exist in a case of the sort, and
the performance has never been repeated .
In the year i84o, a governor of New York first
summoned the courage to say a good word in public
for the lowly foreigner . The governor was William
H. Seward, later Secretary of State in the war
cabinet of Abraham Lincoln . Seward was a liberal
of the first water, for those days . He had the un-
paralleled effrontery, in his message of 1840, to
include a short paragraph to the effect that for-
eigners' children sometimes went uneducated be-
cause of certain restrictions in the school laws and
the customary anemia of _school appropriations,
and that there was some cause for fair-minded citi-
zens to complain at such a state of affairs .
78 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Now, the Public School Society, a legally or-
ganized semi-public body made up entirely of Prot-
estants, had full control of the school funds in New
York City. Little acumen is required to answer the
question whether the Catholics had any access
whatever to these funds, but let it be stated for the
sake of the record that they had not.
When Seward made his radical utterance, the
Catholics leaped as if a firecracker had gone off be-
hind them. They demanded, not requested, that a
share of the school funds be allocated yearly to the
parochial schools. Of course, the Public School So-
ciety fought the Catholic demand with great bit-
terness. Twice the demand went before the council,
and twice it was turned down . The Catholics pre-
pared to take their fight to Albany.
A mayoral election occurred in the meantime,
in April of 1841 . Samuel F. B. Morse was nom-
inated once more for mayor by a crowd of anti-
Catholics calling itself the Democratic American
Association. Morse lost, as he did whenever he ran
for office. He was one of the ablest losers that poli-
tics has known.
The summer passed with no developments in the
school fight . In November, 1841, New York City
had to elect two state senators and thirteen assem-
blymen to Albany. The school fight would move to
Albany with the convening of the next legislature,
and the New York City delegation would have a
A CATHOLIC POLITICAL PARTY 79
powerful finger in that stew of hatred and cupidity .
It behooved all factions to look alive .
When the Democratic party's nominating com-
mittee met to pick candidates, it declared itself in
favor of several men known to be friendly to the
Public School Society.
In the Whig party, anti-Catholic feeling was so
strong that a pro-Catholic who was at first placed
in nomination was later squeezed off the ticket.
Here were the Catholics, then, caught between
two hostile parties. The school money-bags, which
Seward's message had drawn partially open before
their tantalized eyes, bade fair to be pulled shut
again by the tugs of whichever party might elect
its candidates to the legislature . What to do?
Bishop John Hughes, later to be Archbishop and
head of the Catholic church in the United States,
cogitated. Nothing could be done about the Whigs,
who were anti-Irish from the ground up . But the
Democrats (Tammany Hall) had been cordial to
the Irish for the last thirty years, or ever since the
Irish had become a political factor in New York
City; and now the Democrats had double-crossed
the Irish in favor of the nativists and the Prot-
estants.
The bishop did not cogitate for long . He was a
fighting Irishman, John Hughes, one of the ablest
and most aggressive churchmen who ever made an
American diocese sweat money and bloom stone
8o THE WARS OF THE GODLY
churches. The Democrats must be taught a lesson
by the Irish, which the Democrats would not forget.
For a week Hughes acted on the theory that he
could play this political game without seeming to
be in politics. He would merely advise his flock how
to vote.
" I wish you, therefore," he told them in one
speech, " to look well to your candidates ; and if
they are disposed to make infidels or Protestants
of your children, let them receive no vote of yours."
At length, however, Hughes saw that the passive
role would not do for his Irishmen . They must have
action, or they might flop to any extreme and leave
their bishop high, dry and absurd . Very well ; he
would give them action, and the political parties a
run for their money.
He called a mass meeting at Carroll hall . The
meeting nominated candidates for the legislature
as solemnly as ever did a political convention,
named its campaign committee Carroll Hall, and
let the city know that these men were asking, as
Roman Catholics and as nothing else, for the sup-
port of the voters.
Hughes did not expect his ticket to win . He never
told precisely what he did expect. But it was ob-
vious that he wanted to show the Democrats that
the Irish-Catholic faction held the balance of power
in New York City politics, and that, should the
Irish pull their paper props from under the Demo-
A CATHOLIC POLITICAL PARTY 81
cratic nominees at the polls, those nominees would
lose.
Hughes showed them. The newspapers in howl-
ing chorus damned this cleric for ignoring every
American tradition of Church-State separation, ac-
cused him of trying to drill the first hole in the con-
stitutional religious-liberty clause, cursed him for
an intriguing Romanist and a flannel-mouthed
chaw. An anti-Catholic ticket flew cackling into the
fight a day or two after Hughes's mass meeting .
But, as remarked above, Hughes taught Tammany
what it could and could not do without the Irish-
Catholic vote. He maintained to the last gasp of
blather in that pyrotechnic campaign that he had
not meddled in politics and that his skirts were
clear of the least smudge of bigotry ; and the vote,
when counted, showed the following results :
Whigs 15,980
Democrats 15,690
Catholics 2,200
Anti-Catholics 470
Anti-Slavery party 120
Hughes had demonstrated precisely who held
the balance of power when it came to deciding an
election in the city of New York. Without his pa-
rishioners, the Democrats could not win . Had the
Democrats been polite to the Irish, they would
82 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
have beaten the Whigs by 1,9oo votes ; had the
Irish taken it into their heads to side with the
Whigs, the Whig victory would have been 2,200
votes more saddening to the Democrats than it was .
Supposing that the 470 who voted the anti-
Catholic ticket were all Democrats normally,
Hughes had scored in respect to them by luring
them outside party fences with the bait of popery-
in-politics, and so had neatly cut away the debat-
able sliver of a plurality which the Democrats
might have had.
The Catholics got their school-funds law from
the legislature . The nativists controlled their rage
until the night of the next election day, in April,
1842, at which time a nativist gang rounded up all
the Irish to be found on the streets and chased them
about town until it tired of the sport, concluding
the celebration by tossing a gross or more of cobble-
stones through the windows of Bishop Hughes's
residence.
Tammany had learned its lesson, and has not
noticeably forgotten it from that day to this .
Doubtless the Catholic church also learned a les-
son from its single undisguised dive into American
politics, for it has not again, to the date of this
writing, taken the plunge co nomine into any Amer-
ican political campaign.
CHAPTER IX
BLOOD AND FIRE IN PHILADELPHIA
BISHOP HUGHES threw his Catholic city ticket
into the New York election of November, 1841 .
For two years and a half after that overflow of
clerical gall, the Catholic-Protestant battle front in
the United States was comparatively quiet . The
usual amount of blather was bandied between the
two great Christian divisions, the average number
of parish leaflets and memoirs of escaped nuns
rolled off the presses-and an ever-increasing
number of Irish and German immigrants reached
the ports of New York, Boston and Philadelphia.
Then, in the spring of 1844, with a roar that
echoed fully as far as the shots fired by Lexington's
embattled farmers, there cut loose in Philadelphia
the first of the series of " religious " riots which
persisted off and on until the Civil War began .
The fight was over a school question, as so many
of them have been, whether bloodless elections or
battles spurting the gore of the combatants .
Part of the Philadelphia school children's daily
dose of instruction was a reading from the King
James version of the Holy Bible . Catholic Bishop
83
84 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Francis Patrick Kenrick took it into his head to
petition the Board of Controllers of the Public
Schools to grant Catholic children the right to have
the Catholic Bible read to them in lieu of the
King James.
This was, of course, meat and drink to the fanat-
ics among the Protestants, i.e., the Native Ameri-
cans. Ingtantly the charge was hurled that Bishop
Kenrick and his papist horde wished to have the
Bible excluded from the schools. The shriek was
rushed into print in a boiling pamphlet by the Rev.
Walter Colton, U.S .N., under the title A Reply to
the Allegations and Complaints Contained in
Bishop Kenrick's Letter to the Board of Con-
trollers o f the Public Schools . Meetings of the Na-
tive Americans were held in hall and sand lot ; plans
were concocted for foiling this newest onslaught of
the Pope ; a flock of gutter orators swooped down
on the city to gobble the rich pickings which their
ilk can always find where religious mania slavers .
Poor Kenrick did his best to explain his position,
but he was not such a Machiavelli as was his
brother Hughes of New York City. He issued a
card, on March 12, 1844, carrying among others
the statement that Catholics " desire that the pub-
lic schools be preserved from all sectarian influ-
ence." A man who uses this phrase can be called
an earnest and broad-minded Christian, or he can
be called an atheist. The Native Americans did not
BLOOD AND FIRE IN PHILADELPHIA 85
fail to loose several swift jabs at the jaw which
Kenrick had thus exposed to them .
However, blood did not flow for almost two
months after the excitement began in March . Elec-
tion day was coming in May. On the 6th of that
month, the Native Americans held a great mass
meeting. Catholic historians scent a conspiracy be-
hind this gathering, and even a Protestant minister
(the Rev. Mr. Goodman of Baltimore, in The
Truth Unveiled, published in Baltimore in 1844)
indited this bouquet of hanging clauses denuncia-
tory of the event:
"Perhaps no conspiracy -for it was a con-
spiracy, not a sudden, hasty movement on the part
of those who were its prime, though secret movers
- perhaps no conspiracy against not only social
order, and the supremacy of our equitable and im-
partial laws, but against religion itself, was ever
entered upon with a greater disregard to truth and
justice, than that of designing injury and wrong to
a particular body of Christians, through falsified
representations in regard to the Divine volume ."
The speeches at the meeting of May 6 were
mouthed chiefly against the Irish . Rain came on,
whereat the crowd withdrew to the market-house .
During this retreat the noses of several Irishers
who had hung on the fringes of the crowd were
poked by several Native Americans, and a gun or
86 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
two was fired into the air. No one was seriously
hurt. The proceedings inside the market-house kept
up till about ten in the evening, by which time the
speakers were probably blaming the rain itself on
the Irish.
Suddenly the Native American mob flowed out-
doors. Down to Second and Franklin streets it gal-
loped a-whoop. The Micks lived there, in wretched
shanties lining the streets like the rookeries of
medieval Paris. Seeing themselves outnumbered,
the Micks hastily departed, leaving their houses to
be wrecked and fired by the mob. A few tried to de-
fend their dwellings, which attempt produced the
riots' first killings.
" To the nunnery! " yelled some mobster, and
down to Phoenix and Second streets yammered the
nation's protectors. Here the minions of perfidious
Rome had collected a few rifles, and a volley scat-
tered the mob for that night.
Bishop Kenrick issued another placard the next
morning, instructing his aides to post it about the
city. The document sobbed the bishop's grief over
the " death of several of our fellow beings," sweetly
urged all participants in the previous night's exer-
cises to humble themselves before God, conjured
Catholics to avoid all excitement and all public
meetings -in short, could not have been better
calculated to roil nativist emotions if His Innocence
had wanted it to do so.
BLOOD AND FIRE IN PHILADELPHIA 87
The nativists met in the Statehouse yard that
afternoon and partook of a sacrament of hate ad-
ministered by several speakers . They moved thence
to Kensington, where they destroyed the Hibernia
fire station as a precaution preliminary to firing
twenty-nine more Irish houses and the public mar-
ket of the district . Several companies of militia ap-
peared and halted the mob's fun for the day, thus
enabling the fire department to put out the flames
- which the department declined to do.
On the third day of the riots - May 8, 1844 -
the nativists turned up in force at St . Michael's
church. Here, a Captain Fairlamb, at the head of a
detachment of militia, demanded the keys of the
church from Father William Loughran . The militia
then stood by while three members of the mob set
fire to the church and the priest's residence .
St. Augustine's church next went up in smoke .
Mayor Scott of Philadelphia got wind of the
planned attack on this edifice, and stationed the
city watch in front of it, taking up the rear himself
with a posse of citizens . The nativists arrived, took
in the situation at a glance, and came on with
bricks and clubs. Mayor Scott himself was knocked
senseless, the watchmen and the citizen guards
were shooed away like so many chickens, and the
First City Troop rode by at a gallop with a loud
cheer for the attackers.
Everybody roared in glee when the steeple of St.
88 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Augustine's caved in, taking the cross with it . Some
firemen were present, and these busied themselves
with quenching any sparks that chanced to fall on
churches of other sects nearby. The Catholic
church's ancient practice of burning forbidden
books in the public market-place was neatly re-
versed by the Protestant rioters at the St. Augus-
tine's affair: five thousand volumes in the Augus-
tinian Fathers' library attached to the church had
gone to the heaven of martyred books when the fire
at last burned itself out.
To finish off that pleasurable afternoon of May
8, the mob returned to the nunnery at Second and
Phoenix streets, from which it had been driven
away two nights before, and burned it down .
The city authorities now awoke to the fact that
there was some disorder in town, somewhere . They
stationed troops to guard other Catholic churches
in Philadelphia, while the priests and parishioners
smuggled the vestments and sacred vessels to pri-
vate residences. Bishop Kenrick suspended wor-
ship in all Catholic churches in the city on May zo,
1844 ; public masses went unsaid for several weeks.
A grand jury, convened specially to inquire into
the riots, returned a bill whitewashing all parties
concerned without mentioning a name .
Two months later, war flared again for a day.
Nativists on July 5, 1844 - doubtless full of
whisky and oratory from the national holiday just
BLOOD AND FIRE IN PHILADELPHIA 89
preceding - wheeled a brace of cannon to St .
Philip Neri's church. This time, for reasons un-
known, the militia boldly defended the church, and
several people were killed . Several Irish Catholics
were indicted for murder and riot, and placed on
trial. But the fury had spent itself for the time.
A Catholic historian, writing forty-eight years
after the Philadelphia riots, makes this sweetly
Christian and beautifully tolerant comment on the
episode:
" It was the last great effort of Protestantism in
America to crush the Church of God by open vio-
lence; but on the blackened walls of St . Augustine's
Church stood out clear and distinct, the words,
`The Lord seeth .' " (John Gilmary Shea : History
o f the Catholic Church in the United States, i52 z
to z866.)
CHAPTER X
A FIGHTING BISHOP -AND NO FIGHT
IT has been seen how Kenrick, a well-meaning but
weak bishop, failed to make Christian forbearance
produce results as a riot cure in Philadelphia. Hear
now what John, Bishop Hughes, of the Roman
Catholic diocese of New York, did when the wave
of nativist hate rolled into his jurisdiction from
Kenrick's and threatened to engulf a hatful of
churches and a covey of Irishmen.
This Hughes was a fighter, as witness his Carroll
Hall political sortie of 1841 . When the hysteria of
1844 broke on New York City, Hughes did not pro-
pose to take nativist thrusts lying down . Of the
Philadelphia Catholics, he remarked :
"They should have defended their churches,
since the authorities could not or would not do it
for them. We might forbear from harming the in-
truder into our house until the last, but his first
violence to our church should be promptly and de-
cisively repelled."
The New York City excitement began with the
April mayoral election, a month before the Phila-
90
A FIGHTING BISHOP - AND NO FIGHT 91
delphia riots. The Native Americans, taking over
the local Whig organization, had elected their can-
didate for mayor . This gentleman was James Har-
per, a womanly old fluff by all accounts, who
cracked musty jokes in council meetings and ranted
about patriotism while his fellow patriots dipped
into the treasury illegally in the most approved pre-
Civil-War-Tammany-Hall fashion .
On the night before the election of April, 1844,
twelve hundred Native Americans carried clubs,
brickbats, and a choice assortment of No-Popery
banners and transparencies through the Irish
wards - the sixth and fourteenth . They wanted a
fight, and said so with howls and catcalls . The Irish
had been advised by Bishop Hughes to avoid all
election fighting, and so looked on at the parade in
total silence. But a rumor was flying about town
that the mob meant, after mopping up the Irish, to
proceed to St. Patrick's cathedral (old, on Mul-
berry Street) and burn it down. Here, the fighting
bishop assembled between three and four thousand
Catholic men, armed with sword and derringer, and
instructed them to go the limit should the Native
Americans lift a finger against the cathedral.
As Hughes's official newspaper organ, the Free-
man's Journal, reported, no attempt was made by
the Native Americans to burn the edifice, " for a
reason they had."
All was comparatively quiet in New York City,
92 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
then, until news came of the May battles and
church burnings in Philadelphia. It was reported
variously that the Catholics had begun the fight in
that city, and that the Protestants had begun it.
You credited whichever version favored the side to
which you belonged, as you invariably do in any
incident involving partisanship to a cause.
Bishop Hughes perceived that no half-hearted
measures would suffice this time . A priest, escaped
from the Philadelphia war zone, was begging him
to placard the city with orders that Catholics were
to keep the peace no matter what might happen . In
answer to this pacific advice, Hughes did two
things.
He consulted a lawyer as to whether New York
laws provided for compensation for damage by
rioters. The answer was No, they did not.
" Then," stated Hughes, " the law clearly in-
tends that citizens shall defend their own property
from rioters."
In line with this pronouncement, he inspired an
editorial in the Freeman's Journal, which ran in
part as follows :
" If, as it has already appeared in Philadelphia,
it should be a part of Native Americanism to at-
tack their [Catholics'] houses or churches, then it
behooves them, in case all other protection fail, to
defend both with their lives . In this, they will not
A FIGHTING BISHOP -AND NO FIGHT 93
be acting against the law, but for the law . . . . But
in no case let them suffer an act of outrage on their
property, without repelling the aggression at all
hazards."
Hughes's second step toward letting all and sun-
dry know he was not bluffing was to say, in the
hearing of the reporters, " If a single Catholic
church is burned in New York, the city will be-
come a second Moscow"-the reference to Na-
poleon's mishaps in that flaming city being as
trenchant an allusion in 1844 as is mention of
Louvain today.
Now came word from Philadelphia that a Native
American delegation had left for New York bear-
ing an American flag which, in the fighting, had
been " trampled on by savage foreigners ." The Na-
tive Americans called a monster mass meeting for
the following day in City Hall park, where it was
planned to hold a wailing orgy over the desecrated
banner and so refresh nativist hatreds for the Pope
and his representatives in the United States .
Robert H. Morris, outgoing mayor, sent a fran-
tic plea to Bishop Hughes to put the snaffle bit of a
public verboten on his rearing Irish, who would
surely raid the nativist gathering at City Hall if
allowed to follow their own inclinations .
I have not the power," replied Hughes. " You
must take care that they are not provoked."
94 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
He caused the Freeman's Journal to get out an
extra, in which the Irish were warned to avoid pub-
lic meetings, but
" . . . we know the nature of a mob, especially a
mob of church burners, convent sackers, and grave
robbers ; that with it a firm front is the best peace-
maker. . . ."
By way of establishing that firm front, the bishop
stationed in every Catholic church in the city a
garrison of not less than a thousand men, heavily
armed and grimly " resolved, after taking as many
lives as they could in defense of their property, to
give up, if necessary, their own lives for the same
cause."
Then Hughes called on Mayor Morris in per-
son. J. R. G. Hassard, official biographer of Hughes,
thus reports the conversation which passed be-
tween the two in the mayor's office :
MoRRrs : " Are you afraid some of your churches
will be burned? "
HUGHES: " No, sir, but I am afraid some of
yours will be burned. We can protect our own. . . .
I did not come to tell you what to do . . . but if I
were the mayor, I would examine the laws of the
State, and see if there were not attached to the
police force a battery of artillery, and a company
or so of infantry, and a squadron of horse ; and I
From "Life of the Most Reverend John Hughes," by J . R . G . Hassard-re-
printed by permission of the publishers, D . Appleton and Company, New York
ARCHBISHOP JOHN HUGHES OF NEW YORK (1797-1864)
A FIGHTING BISHOP -AND NO FIGHT 95
think I should find that there were ; and if so, I
should call them out. . . ."
The Native Americans next became frightened
over the prospect of a bloody argument with the
arming Catholics, and rushed to Mayor Morris in
their turn, imploring protection from the fiends of
the Pope. Morris placarded the city with posters
forbidding the City Hall assemblage.
No mass meeting was held . The garrisons left the
Catholic churches, and Catholic householders put
away the loco-foco matches wherewith they had
planned to fire their own homes if necessary and
so bring down whole sections of the city in flames
about the Native American ears .
CHAPTER XI
THE FIRST SONG OF THE NATIVE-BORN
THE Declaration of Independence, as many peo-
ple know, was signed July 4, 1776. Exactly sixty-
nine years later, to a day, was promulgated the
most succinct, the least flatulent statement of the
case for nativism and anti-Catholicism that those
Siamese twins in the American side-show of preju-
dices ever were made beneficiaries of, before or
since.
Native Americanism, as an organized political
force, blustered along inside states where foreign-
ers and Catholics were plentiful, for a decade or so
following the first official formation of a Native
American politico-religious bloc in New York City
in 1835 . The Philadelphia riots of 1844, and the
near-riots in New York on which Bishop Hughes
planted a hobnailed episcopal boot, stirred up in-
tense excitement among those Americans who had
been born in the United States. Hence the assem-
bling at Philadelphia in the early days of July,
1845, of the first national Native American con-
clave, and hence, in the fullness of time, the issu-
ance of the pronunciamento aforesaid.
96
THE FIRST SONG OF THE NATIVE-BORN 97
The complete title of the document was " Ad-
dress of the Delegates of the Native American
National Convention, Assembled at Philadelphia
July 4, 1845, to the Citizens of the United States ."
Its sonorous preamble declared that, as the
United States was in grave danger,
" a large portion of the native citizens of these
United States have felt it to be their most solemn
and imperative duty to associate and pledge them-
selves one to another, for the purpose of awaken-
ing their countrymen to a sense of the evils already
experienced from foreign intrusion and usurpation,
and the imminent danger to which all they love and
venerate as Native Americans is momentarily ex-
posed from foreign influence ."
Next came a long Declaration which related how
even George Washington, " in the very dawn of
American Liberty," had sensed the danger to the
Republic of foreign influences ; how his nightmares
were now coming true because transatlantic travel
had grown frightfully cheap and America a much
pleasanter place to which to emigrate than it once
was, and how " the madness of partisan legislation
in removing all effective guards against the open
prostitution of the right of citizenship, had con-
verted the slender current of naturalization into a
torrent threatening to overwhelm the influence of
the natives of the land."
98 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
" ` How, [next bawled the Declaration in italics
and an extra brace of quotes] shall the institutions
o f the country be preserved from the blight o f for-
eign influence, insanely legalized through the con-
flicts o f domestic parties? "'
Not only had we let the Hunyak and the papist
come in and sit by our fire ; we had invited each to
cut himself a piece of cake :
" The whole body of foreign citizens, invited to
our shores under a constitutional provision adapted
to other times and other political conditions of the
world, has been endowed by American hospitality
with gratuitous privileges unnecessary to the en-
joyment of those inalienable rights of men-life,
liberty, and the pursuit o f happiness -privileges
wisely reserved to the Natives of the soil, by the
governments of all other civilized nations."
And they were grabbing the government jobs :
" . . . for the last twenty years, the road to
civil preferment and participation in the legislative
and executive government of the land, has been
laid broadly open, alike to the ignorant, the vicious
and the criminal . . . worst and most degraded
of the European population . . . "
The discussion of the foreigner ended with this
horror of horrors :
" The almshouses of Europe are emptied upon
our coast, and this by our own invitation . . . lives
THE FIRST SONG OF THE NATIVE-BORN 99
of our citizens have been attempted in the streets
of our capital cities by madmen, just liberated from
European hospitals, upon the express condition
that they should be transported to America ."
Cannily, the Native American convention did
not name the Catholic church by name in its Ad-
dress. The church was tagged unmistakably, how-
ever, in the Declaration paragraphs which followed
the polishing off of the foreigner, as " a body,
armed with political power, in a country of whose
system it is ignorant, and of whose institutions it
feels little interest, except for the purpose of per-
sonal advancement."
A dozen or more bloody doings were laid at the
door of this body, chief among which were
(I) That it had formed and encouraged asso-
ciations under foreign names ;
(2) That it introduced foreign emblems in civic
processions, causing riot and murder ;
(3) It armed and equipped militia companies
wearing costumes and insignia of foreign descrip-
tion, with words of command given in a foreign
tongue ;
(4) Had gone into elections as a separate politi-
cal organization avowedly made up of foreigners ;
(5) Had " encouraged political combinations
for the purpose of effecting sectarian measures " ;
(6) Fostered the organization and arming of
I00 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
" foreign banditti," which " repeatedly threatened,
assaulted and temporarily dispersed lawful politi-
cal meetings of native citizens in various places " ;
(7) " Emboldened by the often-tested weak-
ness of the constituted authorities, resulting, as we
solemnly believe, from the ascendancy of the for-
eign influence at the polls, a host of these foreign
assassins at length proceeded to redden the gutters
of the second city of the Union with the blood of
unarmed native citizens, without even the sem-
blance of provocation, and with the avowed deter-
mination to prevent any political assemblage of the
natives of the soil within the limits of one of the
political divisions of a sovereign American state ."
That last was the climax of all the charges the
Native Americans had to hurl at the Catholics . The
city whose gutters had been so foully reddened was
none other than Philadelphia, and the reference
was to the riots of the preceding year, in which it is
at least established that the Irish for once tried
to avoid a fight. Not daunted by facts, the Declara-
tion thundered on about the Philadelphia riots :
" Prostrated in this attempt by the ungovernable
fury of an outraged community, moving in mass, to
avenge such insult to the flag of their country,
trampled and torn beneath the feet of the very
refuse of Europe - these ruffians and their abet-
tors have since fomented extensive riot and open
THE FIRST SONG OF THE NATIVE-BORN IOI
insurrection ; and, uniting with their prejudiced
fellow-countrymen, together with domestic dema-
gogues of various political creeds, have striven un-
ceasingly, to fasten upon the victims of their
treasonable and murderous proceedings, the odium
of crimes originating with themselves."
The third grand division of the Address, following
the preamble and the Declaration, was a set of
Principles heralded as those by which true Native
Americans lived and had their being . These re-
hashed the denunciations of foreigner and Catholic,
but added this ripe thought : that no foreigner can
forget his fatherland completely, and hence no for-
eigner can possibly become a voter to be trusted .
'Twere better, averred the Principles, to limit the
franchise to the native-born without qualification
or exception, but because of the previous policies of
the United States Government
" . . . we are willing, at present, to extend as a
boon, to all peaceful and well disposed strangers
hereafter settling among us, not only every security
enjoyed by the native in the protection of person,
property and the legal pursuit of happiness, but
also the right of suffrage, UPON THE SAME
TERMS AS THOSE IMPOSED UPON THE
NATIVES, namely, a legally authenticated resi-
dence of at least twenty-one years within the limits
of the country."
102 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Lest it should have escaped any reader that the
Roman Catholic church had been alluded to in the
Declaration, that sect was further identified and
denounced in the Principles in this language, loaded
with anti-papal dynamite to a Bible-conning gen-
eration:
" We recommend to the Native Americans of the
several States, in their systems of education, a full
recognition of the Bible as divine authority for the
rights of man, as well as for the separation of
Church and State, on which depends so essentially
the pursuit of happiness and freedom of conscience .
To the Bible we are indebted for the wand that
broke the sceptre of tryants, and crumbled to
atoms the Church and State despotisms of those
potentates who associate religion with their politi-
cal systems-who degrade the people in order to
rule them, and interdict education and knowledge
among the masses, lest intelligence should inform
them of their rights, instruct them how to break
asunder their bonds, and rise to the true dignity of
God-created freedom.
" When the ambition of kings projected the
slavery of the people, they locked up the Bible, and
invested themselves with the attributes of Divinity.
A divine right to enslave was admitted when the
human right was denied. Hence, in all arbitrary
governments, the State is incorporated with the
Church under the monstrous paradox, that man, in
THE FIRST SONG OF THE NATIVE-BORN 103
the possession of his natural rights, is incompetent
to self-government. The reading of the Bible among
the people exploded this doctrine, and the Native
Americans defend it, and will continue to defend
it, against all foreign aggression, as necessary to
freedom of conscience, and the equal rights of
man."
In five words, " To hell with the Pope ."
The Resolutions, fourth and last grand subdi-
vision of the Native American blast, repeated and
summarized the first three, and the production
closed with the signatures of the one hundred forty-
two delegates to the Philadelphia convention . H. A.
S . Dearborne, of Massachusetts, was listed as presi-
dent of the party . Five vice-presidents signed below
Dearborne : L. D. Chapin, New York ; Charles Sex-
ton, New Jersey; Thomas D . Grover, Pennsyl-
vania; William N. Haldeman, Kentucky ; and
Joseph K. Burtis, Missouri .
Some of the delegates' names furnish a variety
of footnotes on the one hundred per cent Ameri-
canism of the party. Most of them, indeed, were
such home-grown names as Thomas R. Whitney,
Jesse Ford, C. J. Fountain, or George F. Penrose.
But the gruesome fact remains that the first dele-
gate's signature appended to the document was
that of L. C. Levin . . . while farther along in the
list, brigaded demurely with names of stainless
Anglo-Saxon derivation, there was to be discerned
104 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
the signature of a James Griffiths ; and that of a
Thomas McCorkel ; and that of a Thomas Hogan.
Thus, eighty-two years ago, the entire nativist
and anti-Catholic philosophy as preached today
was crystallized in this Native American platform .
No new thought has ever been evolved on the sub-
ject ; hardly a phrase in the jargon of bombast com-
monly talked by nativists but is to be found in this
paean of hate that was sung in the middle forties .
The same group convened again in 1847 at New
York City, whence they adjourned to Philadelphia.
Essentially the same platform was adopted . Zach-
ary Taylor, Mexican war hero, was recommended
as the choice of all right thinkers and patriots in
the coming Presidential election of 1848, with
H. A. S. Dearborne as the party's choice for Vice-
President . It was the Whigs, however, who'elected
Taylor. The Native Americans made no national
campaign.
CHAPTER XII
TEN YEARS' Mal de Mer
NATIVE Americanism drew its life from the
wellsprings of Federalist anti-Catholicism and anti-
alienism. So, the Know-Nothing, or American,
party was the legitimate child of Native Ameri-
canism. The Native Americans contented them-
selves chiefly with the issuing of books of the Maria
Monk type and the promulgation of party mani-
festos against all foreigners and Catholics wher-
ever found within the United States, spicing these
peaceable endeavors with the riots of 11844 pre-
viously described.
But sterner exigencies called for sterner, more
thoroughgoing measures to protect haters in their
pet hatreds.
The Irish famine of 11845 shoveled thousands of
Irishmen into their graves. But it hurled tens of
thousands of them into the United States, along
with their wives and children . The men made good
Democrats as fast as they became citizens, while
the women devoted themselves to the production
of little Irishmen, little Catholics, with true Genesis
9 : 11 zeal.
=os
io6 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Irishmen have ever been the heartiest battlers
for Mother Church. You may call Irishmen of a
certain type in this country, without exaggeration,
a Ku Klux Klan of Romish persuasion . The shanty
Irish are here indicated, of course, and not the large
contingent of high-class Irish. Dr. Orestes A.
Brownson, the Michael Williams of the forties and
fifties, described the former crew accurately when,
in his Boston Quarterly Review, he observed :
" The great majority of them [Roman Catholics
in the United States] are quiet, modest and peace-
ful and loyal citizens adorning religion by their
faith and piety and enriching the country by their
successful trade or their productive industry . But
it cannot be denied that hanging loosely on to their
skirts is a miserable rabble unlike anything which
the country has ever known of native growth - a
noisy, drinking and brawling rabble, who have
after all a great deal of influence with their coun-
trymen, who are usually taken to represent the
whole Irish Catholic body, and who actually do
compromise it to an extent much greater than good
Catholics, attentive to their own business, com-
monly suspect or can easily be made to believe ."
In latter-day support of which acute delineation
of character may be cited the actions of Irish
policemen when the Ku Klux Klan attempted to
TEN YEARS' MAL DE MER 107
join the Memorial Day parade at Jamaica, Long
Island, in May of 1927 .
Not only were the Irish boiling as never before
into this country, flooding the cities at a horrid rate
of speed, but the country itself was a-boil within
as the shouting, fighting, sweating and even a little
thinking pre-Civil War decade opened in 1850 .
Something ailed the United States of America.
Every one knew that much. Every one whose cer-
ebral cortex was composed of any material more
potent than pith had an explanation to offer for the
national mal de mer.
The Anti-Nebraska men said the trouble lay in
Stephen A. Douglas's plan to split the northwest
country into two territories the people of which
should pass upon the question Slave or Free . Some
of the Democrats thought the same . The Anti-
Nebraska men split off from their party, the north-
ern Whig, and went into secret session with the
anti-Douglas Democrats, to emerge presently bear-
ing the anti-slavery infant which today, as the
great Republican party, says nothing about prohi-
bition and the crippling of strikes by injunction .
" Free Soil, Free Speech, Free Men and Fre-
mont!" was the self-explanatory war-cry of the
Free Soil party in the presidential campaign of
1856.
The Whig party, another of the precursors to the
present Republican party, was notorious at the
1108 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
opening of this thundering decade for its anxiety
to keep slavery out of politics as an issue deserving
of any consideration . This party's shilly-shallying
on the slavery question had long been as pathetic
as, in our day, has been the milk-and-water slob-
bering of both Democratic and Republican parties
on the subject of prohibition . Thousands of Whigs,
particularly in the North, yearned for some new or-
ganization wherewith to give the decadent party
the swift kick which they believed it to deserve .
In this general wild-eyed cerebration of the ten
years before Sumter, then, it was but natural that
the Native American philosophy should bounce on
deck with its same old solution for the mystery of
what ailed the nation. What could it be but that
His Holiness the Pope had practically completed
arrangements for moving on Washington, taking
possession of the White House, and reducing His
Excellency the President to the rank of second, if
not third, assistant secretary to the Assessor of the
Consistorial Congregation?
Hence the inception, hence the rise to a position
of ascendancy in the political skies like unto that
of a skyrocket, and hence the equally rocketlike
flop, of the National Council of the United States,
alias the Supreme Order of the Star Spangled Ban-
ner, alias the American party, alias the Know-
Nothing party, alias Young Sam, alias plain Sam.
By one or another of this set of ringing titles was
TEN YEARS' MAL DE MER 109
the child of the Native American spirit known at
various times during its career, which began in
1852 and blew up officially in 1856 .
And what was the Catholic explanation for the
bellyache which griped the United States? Doubt-
less it was the then regrettably slow, in fact the not
perceptible, breakup of Protestantism in this coun-
try. But the Catholic hierarchs, as always, met with
more success than did the Protestant autonomists
in the endeavor to prevent the jackasses within the
fold from organizing political parties or seizing pen
and writing down their whole church a body of
frantic fools.
CHAPTER XIII
A Know-NOTHING WIZARD
HISTORIANS differ as to who was the true
founder of the Know-Nothing party . The party
records were burned after the party collapsed .
There were four nativist fraternal orders in the
northeastern states which seem to have wanted
only a strong leader to throw them into politics .
These were the United American Mechanics, the
Sons of America, the American Protestant Associa-
tion (a lodge of Orangemen), and the Order of
United Americans. The last named was the strong-
est of them all, and its headquarters were in New
York City.
One Charles B . Allen organized, at New York in
the spring of 185o, a fifth lodge, christening it the
Sons of the Sires . According to one historian, Allen
was the official founder of the Know-Nothing
party, since it is related that the United Americans
joined the Sons of the Sires in 1852 and the merger
at once jumped into politics . Whatever the details,
the net result was that these five orders disappeared
in the whalelike belly of Know-Nothingism.
Another mogul, an archbishop if not a cardinal,
of Know-Nothingism, was James W . Barker, who
I10
A KNOW-NOTHING WIZARD III
began as a dry-goods merchant in New York City,
won a reputation as the party's ablest organizer,
and went back to the lingerie when the movement
burst. These two men, Allen and Barker, are
credited by some writers with the formation of
the party.
Others give the credit to Edward Z. C. Judson.
As no first-hand information is available, we choose
to regard Judson as the true and legitimate sire of
Know-Nothingism. Our chief reason for the choice
is that no better understanding of the nature of the
sap which coursed through the Know-Nothing
party's eventually far-reaching veins - and
through those of all American anti-Catholic orders
before or since - can be secured than from a brief
survey of the life and deeds of this mean.
Edward Z. C. Judson was born in Philadelphia
on August 16, 18 Research has failed to disclose
what the Z. C. stood for, as it has failed to clear up
several longish stretches in Judson's span of years.
But his known career and deeds were colorfully
crazy enough to satisfy anybody .
He ran away to sea at the age of eleven years .
By the time he was thirteen, he was an apprentice
seaman on an American man-o'-war . His thirteenth
was his lucky year, for it was at that age that Jud-
son rescued the crew of a boat which had been
rammed by a ferry on the East river between New
York City and Brooklyn. This heroism moved
112 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
President Martin Van Buren to commission the
young sailor a midshipman in the United States
navy.
The boy is thus seen to have been a rather ade-
quate prototype in his own person of the members
of that Younger Generation which, six or seven
years ago, was about to set our world ablaze and
which, at last report, was still striking the matches .
Judson was, indeed, in his early years, a proto-
type of a good many of the stock characters that
adorn the American gallery of heroes .
He was the ideal prototype of the Poor-But-
Proud lad who finally comes into his own. After his
midshipman's commission came down from Wash-
ington, the other midshipmen on Judson's vessel
refused to mess with him. He had been a common
sailor, said they, and hence their company was a
mite too rich for his blood . Judson is claimed to
have fought seven duels with various of his ship-
mates on this account, and to have won all seven .
At sixteen, he became a prototype of three or
four beloved American lay figures by a single feat .
He wrote a story called " The Captain," sold it to
the Knickerbocker magazine, and with it made so
resounding a hit that he became editor forthwith
of a weekly fiction paper known as Ned Buntline's
Own. Thus Edward Z . C. Judson, at one fell swoop
and a very tender age, found himself (a) a Self-
Made Man, (b) the Boy Who Showed 'Em All
A KNOW-NOTHING WIZARD 113
Up, (c) a Virile Editor, and (d) an Author Who
Has Lived His Stories.
We may be sure he realized the magnitude of his
own achievements to the fullest extent, and be-
yond. What boy of sixteen, with such mighty deeds
behind him, would not begin grooming himself for
the Presidency at the least?
Unfortunately, as some one remarked, a great
name too early won is among earth's most grievous
burdens. The young Judson undoubtedly felt his
name to be greater than it actually was. He put in
many a year in New York City, and recorded his-
tory resounds with no echo from any deed of his
during the period. They must have been stale, flat,
unprofitable years ; years wherein, rising young
journalist though all the evidence showed him to
be, he yet failed somehow to add to his literary
stature.
" The Captain," hit of Judson's nonage, was
published in 1838 . We do not hear of him again un-
til 1849, the year in which Edgar Allan Poe died.
Then he appears as author of an inflammatory arti-
cle which helped to bring out the mobs of lower
New York with ripe eggs and seasoned shillalahs
against the tragedian William Macready, playing a
rival Macbeth to that of Edwin Forrest. In this,
the second Astor Place riot, twenty or more mob-
sters lost their lives, while Judson was tried and
sentenced to do a year in jail and pay a fine of $250.
114 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Judson used his magazine's ghost-name of Ned
Buntline as his own nom de plume, and thereunder
committed during the period of his editorship the
appalling number of four hundred serial novels.
One likes to imagine the plots of these masterworks,
though one has fortunately read none of them .
Wouldn't each and every one of Ned Buntline's
novels have echoed the early life and deeds of their
heroic author? In all of them, one feels, a hero
must have appeared who was originally Poor but
consistently Proud. In ninety per cent of them, this
stock hero must have run away to sea in his bloom-
ing youth, there to perform some deed which won
him his elders' instant acclaim . Eighty per cent, or
three hundred twenty, of the productions must
have had as an incident material to the plot's un-
folding the confounding by the hero of some rich
or socially exalted low-lifer or group of the same,
preferably by force of his bare hands ; while it goes
without saying that in all four hundred of the Jud-
son books the hero was a one hundred per cent
American, tracing his ancestry to remotest colonial
days.
Thus Judson, up to the time of the parturition
by some one versed in the midwifery of lodges of
the National Council of the United States of
America, alias the Supreme Order of the - but see
the preceding chapter. He was a quantity dealer in
the English language, and hence it is fair to pre-
A KNOW-NOTHING WIZARD 115
sume that to him was given the task of writing the
oath of the order . This could have taken him no
more than a half-day. He must, indeed, have dic-
tated the oath to an amanuensis between that chap-
ter in which Hero No. 235 saved the ravishing
beauty's honor from the entire fo'c's'le gang and
the chapter in which the beauty rebuked the hero
for a fancied presumption on his heroism which he
hadn't meant her to take in that way at all at all .
If, after eight years of national prohibition, any
doubt remains that anti-alcoholic fanaticism is
oftener than not linked with anti-Catholic fanati-
cism -though the New York Know-Nothings in
their heyday were wets -be it here recorded as
one more shred of evidence that Judson died a tem-
perance lecturer in 1886.
Before that melancholy event, however, he had
served his country as chief of scouts among the
Indians during the Civil War, sustaining twenty
wounds and acquiring a colonelcy. He was a Re-
publican until James G. Blaine's nomination for
the Presidency. Thereupon, perhaps believing that
the Pope was again plotting a White House raid,
Judson transferred his support to Grover Cleve-
land and died in the bosom of the Democracy .
This was the type of man who was able to lure
one and one-half million adult Americans into a
political organization founded on religious hatred.
Judson's whole background, the totality of his
116 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
earthly experience so far as recorded, could have
made him nothing but a man from whom a full,
round viewpoint was regrettably absent . All the
Know-Nothing captains-general - Barker, Allen,
Erastus Brooks, Sam Houston, Parson Brownlow
of Tennessee - were of a piece with Judson . And
all were of a piece with many a Ku Klux Klan sa-
trap of today . The two sets of fakers and high-
binders, in their turn, are together classifiable with
the professional Catholic whom we have always
with us, but who is not often allowed by his clerical
nurses to open his mouth and bray a battle-call to
the hate which smolders in the bottom layers of
his sect as in those of all other Christian divisions .
CHAPTER XIV
AMATEUR SALESMEN OF HATE
THOUGH the records of the Know-Nothing
party were burned soon after its demise, the oaths
and the rituals survive. Doubtless these were sold
in the first instance by some mercenary lodge
brother to a pressman in search of a sensation, and
by the pressman perpetuated, in much the same
manner as the New York World obtained for pub-
lication in 192 i the oaths of the twentieth-century
Ku Klux Klan.
And not before in history, nor after, until the
night in which William Joseph Simmons launched
the modern Klan atop Stone Mountain near At-
lanta, Georgia, was ever such a rump cut taken from
the raw carcass of the English language as Judson,
or whoever wrote the Know-Nothing oath, sliced
off and prescribed as a prerequisite to entry into
the new lodge.
Here is a sample bite from the piece :
" In the presence of Almighty God and these
witnesses, you do solemnly promise and swear that
you will never betray any of the secrets of this so-
ciety, nor communicate them even to proper candi-
III
1118 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
dates except within a lawful council of the order ;
that you will never permit any of the secrets of this
society to be written, or in any other manner made
legible, except for the purpose of official instruc-
tion ; that you will not vote, nor give your influence
for any man for any office in the gift of the people,
unless he be an American born citizen, in favor of
Americans ruling America, nor if he be a Roman
Catholic . . . that you will not, under any cir-
cumstances, expose the name of any member of
this order nor reveal the existence of such an asso-
ciation ; that you will answer an imperative notice
issued by the proper authority ; obey the command
of the State council, president or his deputy, while
assembled by such notice, and respond to the claim
of a sign or cry of the order unless it be physically
impossible. . . ."
It was from the oath of secrecy that the custom
of the Know-Nothings arose which gave them their
nickname and brought them into the contempt of
Catholics and calmer Protestants alike. This was
their policy of answering, " I don't know," when-
ever any question concerning the order was put to
them by an outsider. One can imagine the superior
smirk which must have manteled many a rustic
countenance as the mouth uttered this formula.
He was on the inside, by jiminy ; he knew things
not everybody knew!
PAGE FROM " KNOW-NOTHING ALMANAC " OF 1856
WITH PEN PORTRAIT OF ERASTUS BROOKS, A NEW YORK
KNOW-NOTHING LEADER
AMATEUR SALESMEN OF HATE 119
Sam's published ritual proposed, among other
worthy objectives, to accomplish the following:
" . . . protect every American citizen in the
legal and proper exercise of all his civil and reli-
gious rights and privileges ; to resist the insidious
policy of the Church of Rome and all other foreign
influence against our republican institutions in all
lawful ways ; to place in all offices of honour, trust
or profit in the gift of the people or by appoint-
ment none but Native American Protestant citi-
zens. . . ."
Catholics and foreigners were to be kept in their
place, i.e., under Protestant and American thumbs.
Pope Pius IX, at that time tremulously relying on
French bayonets to preserve for him the temporal
power in a nauseated Italy, and probably but per-
functorily concerned with what went forward in
North America or any other foreign land, was to
be thwarted in any attempt he might make to move
into the White House . Above all, if one reads the
Know-Nothing oaths and rituals in the light of im-
migration statistics for the period, the tide of new-
comers from Ireland was to be checked by any
means at hand. The property and the political
offices which were slipping from native-born hands
were to be snatched back to those hands by law .
Sam said nothing about the boycotting of Cath-
olics in business, or about the hiring of none but
120 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Protestants to do one's washing or gardening or
policing of cows. It is, nevertheless, a safe bet that
Sam's adherents practised these measures against
their Catholic neighbors, and vice versa, exactly as
Kluxers and K.C.'s practise them against one an-
other in small-town America today .
The five fraternal orders which merged to make
up the Know-Nothing party were listed in a pre-
vious chapter. Three of these bore the magic word
American in their official titles, while one of the
names by which the new order went was the Ameri-
can party. Thus we perceive that had these grand-
dads of today's Ku Kluxers and Klanswomen been
given to reckoning their Americanism in percent-
ages after the fashion inaugurated by Theodore
Roosevelt pere, and could names confer that qual-
ity of rightness with God, they would have been
entitled to call themselves, not mere one hundred
per cent Americans, but four hundred per cent
Americans at the least. Thus do we degenerate ;
not one of us can be above ioo-proof in these sorry
days.
But in another respect the modern Klan over-
shadows the Know-Nothings, showing that the law
of compensation, like God, is not mocked . Know-
Nothingism named specifically the Roman Cath-
olic church and foreigners as its enemies . The Klan
confines itself pretty strictly in official utterances
to the damning of only such shadowy and indefin-
AMATEUR SALESMEN OF HATE 121
able foes as " persons owing allegiance to any for-
eign potentate," " persons not of the white race,"
"non-Nordics," etc., etc. The Klan is thus fore-
handed with a sales talk wherewith to market
whatever brand of hate is most popular with the
dominant faction in any locality it enters . It can
sell anti-Semitism in New Jersey and on Long Is-
land, anti-Catholicism in any city of the first class
above the Mason-Dixon line, anti-Afroamericanism
anywhere down South, straight anti-alienism in
New York and the mill towns of New England. The
Know-Nothings were cramped in the harvesting of
one of their choicest possible fields, the South, by
their lack of foresight to condemn the humble ne-
gro, and were forced to resort in those parts to a
play upon a hatred of Germans which possessed
some Southerners.
CHAPTER XV
FOR PRESIDENT : DANIEL WEBSTER
IN the Presidential election of 1852, the first in
which it took part, the Know-Nothing party pushed
but few tremors along the ganglia of the Ameri-
can body politic. It did its infantile best, however,
to shake the nation's eyes awake to the perils of
popery, and if the nation did not choose to respond,
that was no funeral of the new crusaders' .
The first national convention took place at Tren-
ton, New Jersey, in July of 1852 . Present were
thirty-one delegates from nine states-Pennsyl-
vania, New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts, Illi-
nois, Ohio, Maryland, Virginia and Georgia .
These thirty-one gentlemen placed in nomina-
tion for the Presidency none other than Daniel
Webster, then in his seventy-first year and looking
back upon a long and spectacular career as states-
man and lawyer. For Vice-President, they proposed
George C. Washington, of Montgomery county,
Maryland. Both nominations were plainly the
moves of peanut politicians desiring great names as
antidote for their organization's smallness .
Neither nominee remained on the ticket until
election day in the November following .
122
FOR PRESIDENT : DANIEL WEBSTER 123
Washington fell a victim to that self-respect
which a politician, if he would be a successful poli-
tician, should carefully throttle at its first birth-
cry, and declined the nomination . He does not
appear again on the fair page of American history,
though it may well be that he enjoyed the respect
of his neighbors in Montgomery county, Maryland .
Webster neither accepted nor declined his nom-
ination by any written word, or by any spoken so
far as can be learned. One wonders why. Webster
was a former Federalist, and the Federalists had
been the hundred percenters of their day. He was
an old man when the Know-Nothing nomination
was proffered him, and had been several times dis-
appointed in his hope for a Presidential nomination
from the powerful parties to which he had belonged
in his best years. Yet Webster was a statesman-
lawyer of the first caliber, as any law student fresh
from the Dartmouth College or the Girard Will
case can advise you ; and he had more than once
sacrificed his personal interests to those of nation
or party.
Why, then, did this generally admirable man,
when proffered the Know-Nothing nomination, ex-
hibit the nervous reticence of, say, a corn-state
Senator of our day when charged with being a mem-
ber of the Ku Klux Klan? Why did Webster not
flatly refuse to give the aid and comfort of his name
to a bloc dedicated to the political capitalization of
124 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
racial and religious hate? He was passing into his
last illness, but he did not die until four months
after the Know-Nothing convention . It seems fair
to presume that Webster was trimming his sails to
any breeze that might be whispering over the po-
litical sea, with a hurricane conceivably buttoned
up in its hip pocket.
At any rate, Daniel Webster died ten days be-
fore the election of 1852 . Three days later, the
Know-Nothings placed at the head of their ticket
one Jacob Broom, a Philadelphian . Dr. Reynell
Coates, of Camden, New Jersey, had been chosen as
kite tail to Webster when George C. Washington
declined.
The week-long campaign of Broom and Coates
was an affair of the most astonishing humor . Coates
made a jest which must have tickled that type of
mind Which relishes camp-meeting pre-hysterics
wit, by calling the Broom-Coates combination the
" kangaroo ticket " and denominating himself the
shorter legs thereof . Adherents of the two candi-
dates evolved a pretty conceit from their leaders'
names, and displayed brooms and old coats on the
stump and in the campaign literature. As all are
agreed, the olden days in America were notable
for their shrewd and salty humorists.
But when election day at last rolled around,
something happened to the Know-Nothing ticket :
something serious . In many a state not a Know-
FOR PRESIDENT : DANIEL WEBSTER 125
Nothing vote was recorded . Doubtless many more
votes were cast for Broom and Coates than ever
attained the dignity of official tabulation, particu-
larly in city precincts where Catholics sat as judges
of election. Is it not one's bounden duty to battle
for one's faith against the heretic? Shall not he be
blessed in the sight of his Lord who chucks a sly
batch of heretic ballots down a manhole (or what-
ever passes for a manhole when the year is 1852),
while comrades debauch the heretic checkers in a
nearby boozing ken and the loyal Gaelic copper on
the corner turns discreetly away?
Broom and Coates went swirling down that dark
sewer which yawns for the politician who can
neither deliver the goods nor intimidate the ma-
jority party. The election of 1852 passed with-
out a hint of the Know-Nothing convulsions which
were to seize the country in the next four years .
CHAPTER XVI
SECOND WIND
YOUNG SAM -as the Know-Nothing tracts
and almanacs were presently calling the party -
was down but he was not out. He had just begun to
fight. Roman Catholics were too numerous, too
prolific, and, one suspects, too quietly aggressive on
their own side, for the peace of mind of the lowlier
bred native American .
Also, the slavery issue was darkening all the
skies. The Know-Nothings had a rich field to plow
in that vast body of Americans, growing vaster as
time goes on, who love to excite themselves over
any issue save the real one . The trouble with the
United States in the fifties was slavery, as the
trouble with it today is federal prohibition . But it
was so much more exciting to believe that the
trouble was located in an Old World city where a
wicked wizard sat on the papal throne and plotted
the subjugation of the United States .
Horace Greeley wrote in his Recollections:
" The fact that almost every Know-Nothing was
at heart either a Whig or a Democrat, a champion
Iz6
SECOND WIND 127
or an opponent of slavery, and felt a stronger,
deeper interest in other issues than in those which
affiliated him with the ` Order,' rendered its dis-
ruption and abandonment not a question of years,
but of months."
We crave the liberty to disagree with the ghost
of Greeley on this point. We think - and present
the notion gratis to the present heirs and assigns of
Know-Nothingism - that had the Know-Nothing
party pounded steadfastly away on its anti-papal
tom-tom, had it refused to be sucked into any
traffic with ideas essential to the Union's survival,
and hence too tough for romance-loving minds to
masticate, it could have kept its clientele intact and
itself unshorn of potency as a political factor up
to the day of the firing on Fort Sumter.
Nay, more : it might even, by such adherence to
first principles, have averted the Civil War . The
unspeakable Bolsheviki claim that religion keeps
the proletariat doped and divided, and that the
smart fellows rule largely in consequence thereof .
If any merit resides in this Bolshevik dogma, does
any less reside in the proposition that religious ha-
treds offer a splendid escape valve for emotions
which threaten to blow off in the direction of some-
thing really important, and so do serious damage?
But we anticipate .
During 1853 and '54 the new party devoted its
128 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
energies to a furtive whitening of the fields to har-
vest . Judson, Barker, Allen and their disciples
worked away in New York City. Low-spoken
evangels of hate carried the new revelation west
and south from New York until councils of the
order dotted the land like an attack of hives. The
policy was that of boring from within the estab-
lished parties, the technique the same as that
worked out in our time by Communist William
Z . Foster for the sapping of the orthodox labor
unions. The members were sworn to say nothing
of their new affiliations to anybody. Thus the
Know-Nothing party got away to a running start
before the professional politicians had an inkling
of what was going on .
By May 1, 1853, New York City and adjacent
counties had fifty-four Know-Nothing lodges in
active practice . Here is a chart of the spread of the
party in those years when it furtively prepared for
the killing it yearned after :
April to December, 1853 : New York, New
Jersey, Maryland, Connecticut, Massachusetts,
Pennsylvania, Ohio .
January to April, 1854 : Washington, D. C., New
Hampshire, Indiana, Rhode Island, Maine .
May to September, 1854 : Illinois, Michigan,
Iowa, Wisconsin .
October to December, 1854 : Alabama, Georgia,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Kentucky, Mis-
SECOND WIND 129
souri, Tennessee, Virginia, Delaware, Mississippi,
Texas, Florida, Arkansas, Louisiana, California,
Oregon.
May, 1855 : Minnesota, New Mexico, Kansas,
Nebraska.
Thus, within three years after Judson and
Barker and Allen launched the venture, one and
one-half million legal and qualified voters were
roped in and marked with the unseen Know-
Nothing brand. The sweep of the party's organi-
zation march followed the route of any new idea
that comes to the United States ; that is, it was
snapped up eagerly by the northeastern states, it
marched thence into New England and out to the
middle west, and finally it penetrated the south .
Who were some of the converts to the war
against popery and the immigrant? Few of them
admitted ever having joined up when once the tor-
nado had blown around on its own tail, but the
story did get out on a handful of them .
Easily the most famous Know-Nothing was
Ulysses S. Grant. He was a tobacco-chewing store-
keeper near St. Louis in the fifties, and did not
dream that he was one day to command the armies
in the field of the United States and another day
to sit in the White House. He tells the Know-
Nothing story on himself in his Memoirs (Vol. I,
p. 169), which is more than many another suspect
saw fit to do. Grant relates that he went to one
130 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
meeting of the nearest Know-Nothing lodge in his
green-grocer days, was initiated, heard preached
the word of Judson and Barker, and never went
back.
Sam Houston, of Alamo fame, was another
Catholic-hater who found a haven in the Know-
Nothing party . Houston served its interests gal-
lantly in the United States Senate, putting up as
brave a fight against Rome as is currently waged
by the Hon. J. Thomas Heflin (Dem.), of Ala-
bama.
Other Know-Nothings whose names in their
brief day could make the nation pause at the hear-
ing of them were Humphrey Marshall, of Louis-
ville (Congress, 1855) ; Henry Winter Davis,
of Baltimore (Congress 1856-58) ; Dr. Jerome
Crownshield Smith (mayor of Boston, 1854) ;
N. P. Banks (Speaker of the House, 1855, and
Union general in the Civil War) ; United States
Senators John J . Crittenden of Kentucky, John
Bell of Tennessee, Anthony Kennedy of Maryland,
Henry Wilson of Massachusetts . The last named
became Vice-President under Rutherford B . Hayes.
CHAPTER XVII
FIRST FRUITS
IT was in the spring of 1854 that the Know-
Nothing party harvested its first crop of water-
melons.
The most notable victories were in the municipal
elections in Baltimore, Washington and Philadel-
phia. Philadelphia saw the boring-from-within
strategy produce its most horrifying result when
Conrad, elected mayor as a Democrat, confessed
to being a Know-Nothing on the morning after his
election was certified . Conrad went further than
that. To prove himself a sterling nativist, he saw
fit to insult every Irishman since Brian Boru by
asserting that all policemen ought to be Americans
born.
Several Massachusetts towns rolled into the
Know-Nothing basket - the largest being Worces-
ter and Salem - and at least forty Congressmen
from half a dozen states wore Sam's badge on their
souls, though not on their waistcoats . In the Con-
gressional elections of 1854 the Know-Nothings, in
all states where they were organized, supported
any candidate whom they could bull-doze, a la
Anti-Saloon League, into secret pledges of eternal
131
132 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
enmity toward the Pope and foreigners. Whigs,
Republicans, Anti-Nebraska men, all looked alike
to the nativist crusaders, so long as they enter-
tained " American ideas."
" The majority of the Banks men [Republican
supporters of N. P. Banks for Speaker in the Con-
gress of 1855]," wrote Horace Greeley to Charles
A. Dana when Congress convened a year later,
" are now members of Know-Nothing councils, and
some twenty or thirty of them actually believe in
that swindle. Half the Massachusetts delegation,
two-thirds that of Ohio, and nearly all that of
Pennsylvania, are Know-Nothings this day . We
shall get them gradually detached ."
From the mere carrying of metropolitan elec-
tions in the spring, the new party leaped to the
eminence of swinging the state of Massachusetts
in the fall of 1854 . Henry J. Gardner -whom all
accounts portray as a broken-down politician of
the most revolting type - was chosen governor of
the proud old commonwealth by a plurality of so;
00o votes, while both houses of the legislature
turned up almost one hundred per cent Know-
Nothing in composition when the ballots had all
been counted.
Delaware elected various Know-Nothing candi-
dates to state offices, though the gubernatorial
nominee was lost in the shuffle .
Protestant upstate New York rose up against the
FIRST FRUITS 133
- even then - Babylon of Manhattan island, and
presented an absolutely unknown Know-Nothing
candidate with 12 2,000 votes out of a total of 43 5
ooo polled.
The astonishment that rocked the nation was
terrific. An unseen force, an undertow in politics,
had wrought this amazing chain of victories, had
thrown political hacks and clowns into the seats
where the mighty had rested and thought them-
selves secure. Northern Whigs and anti-slavery
Democrats alike were scrambling into the new
Republican party, formally organized and chris-
tened at Jackson, Michigan, in the previous July ;
and it had been prayerfully supposed by the politi-
cians that from no other quarter was a serious
storm to be looked for. Then along had come this
interloper, this secret cabal of whose extent and
strength none could now form an estimate, and had
given the ruling powers in three important states
a staggering blow.
Pathetic is no fit word to describe the epileptic
seizures which laid hold on the professional politi-
cians. Nor is mob-like adequate to point up the
ensuing rush on the part of office-holders past,
present and hoping-to-be to join the American
party. The membership rolls went kiting. Four
months after the Massachusetts, Delaware and
New York landslides James W . Barker reported
that 96o Know-Nothing councils were now meet-
ing and plotting in the state of New York alone .
134 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
The Worcester (Mass.) Evening Journal dis-
played a bit of that uncanny knack for guessing
wrong on politics which so many newspapers have
preserved into this present : it predicted a national
victory for Know-Nothingism in the elections two
years ahead. That the new party would sweep the
North, said the respected sheet, was a foregone
conclusion, while its chances were declared golden
for mopping up enough electoral votes in the South
to put whatever lodge brother it might nominate
into the White House .
James Gordon Bennett's New York Herald made
a similar prophecy - tacking thereto, however, the
saving " out " which no editorial writer who boasts
,of more than a bowing acquaintance with the tricks
of his trade ever omits from a discussion of political
probabilities. The Herald's " out " consisted of a
proviso that the Know-Nothing party could shake
off the anti-slavery aroma which was already cling-
ing about its garments. Happily for the Herald,
this turned out to be the case, though not in the
manner anticipated by it or any other political
snake doctor functioning in 1854.
Horace Greeley, in the matter of the Know-
Nothing furore as in most other matters political,
was the best prophet of them all. He wrote :
" It [Know-Nothingism] would seem as devoid
of the elements of persistence as an anti-cholera
or anti-potato rot party."
AN ANTI-CATHOLIC CARTOON OF THE SEVENTIES
CHAPTER XVIII
STICKS, STONES, TAR AND FEATHERS
RELIGIOUS mania makes men see a deeper
shade of red than does any other form of hysteria .
Probably this is because with most of us the emo-
tion traces back to the lessons taught us earliest by
our mothers and hence most deeply cut on the
tablets of our minds. It was no more than natural,
then, that clubs and tar buckets should ride the
surge of religious mania blown up by Know-
Nothingism, or that these implements should come
ever more widely into play as the movement swelled
toward its peak.
A list of the major to-do's which punctuated the
years 1853 to 1856 is appended at the end of this
chapter. They were all of a kind, differing only in
numbers of people wounded or killed and value of
property destroyed .
Of the common, ordinary riots, Bloody Monday
in Louisville, Kentucky, was easily the premier .
This celebration was held in observance of election
day, its date being August 5, 1855. Festivities
commenced early in the morning and lasted well
into the night. When the smoke cleared off, the
1135
136 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Louisville cathedral was found to have been en-
tered (though not damaged) by a roaring Know-
Nothing mob, while about twenty-five Irishmen
had gone to glory in one of the grandest running
street wars ever fought in the United States .
Bishop Spalding, of the Roman Catholic diocese
of Bardstown, wrote to Bishop Kenrick, who had
piloted the Philadelphia Catholics through the
riots of 1844, that " the city authorities, all Know-
Nothings, looked calmly on, and they are now
endeavoring to lay the blame on the Catholics."
What the Protestants had to say has not been
exhumed by the present chronicler . It is a safe
guess that any Protestant remarks to reach paper
were couched by way of whitewash for the Protes-
tant faction. It would be even safer to venture the
statement that, as matter of fact, both parties wel-
comed election morn with huzzas of joy at the
brewing up of a fine fight .
The truly picturesque and thought-provoking
event in the string of religious riots which bedecked
the fifties was something else .
In 1853 the United States was agitated by the
presence within its borders, for seven exhilarating
months, of the Most Reverend Cajetan Bedini,
Archbishop of Thebes and Papal Nuncio to the
Court of Brazil. Bedini's tour of the nation was a
continuous riot. Wherever he went, nativism boiled
over the rim of one caldron of hate, Catholicity
STICKS, STONES, TAR AND FEATHERS 137
over the other, and between them the harmless prel-
ate was all but scalded in half a dozen cities.
Bedini came to the United States because sev-
eral German Catholic parishes in Philadelphia and
Buffalo had got themselves into a state bordering
on open schism over the question of legal title to
church property . It was a phase of the " trustee-
ism " dispute which excited the Catholic church
during much of the last century. The Holy Father
at Rome, having named Bedini nuncio to Brazil,
instructed him to stop off in the United States and
do what he could to cool the Germanic passions. To
smooth Bedini's path, the Pope gave him a per-
sonal letter, couched in terms of the most ceremoni-
ous friendliness, to President Franklin Pierce of
the American Republic.
This, if the historians do not lie - and no
reason presents itself why they should - was the
sole and entire scenery of fact before which was
staged Archbishop Bedini's American visit in the
second year of the Know-Nothing party's exist-
ence. The United States had a minister to the Vati-
can, by the way, and this gentleman likewise
furnished the archbishop with a letter to the Presi-
dent, in which it was explained that Bedini was
not to be regarded as an advance post of the Papal
Guard nor yet as a Jesuit scout .
Yet what a flurry Bedini's coming caused in this
country ; what sweatings of diplomats ; what flesh-
138 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
crawlings of politiciansr fearful of anti-Catholic
votes ; what writhings and twistings inside the
flannels of all official Washington, confronted as
it was with the necessity of pleasing the powerful
Catholic minority by appearing to welcome Bedini
while placating the Protestant majority by seeming
to give him the cold shoulder.
To Know-Nothing minds legalistically inclined,
it was plain that for the President formally to re-
ceive Bedini, to shake him by the hand, and may-
hap to have him in to dinner at the White House,
would constitute official encouragement of the
highest kind for Rome. Secretary of State Marcy
gets the credit for having reasoned thus brilliantly
in face of the fact that we already had a duly
portfolioed diplomatic representative at the Vati-
can. Marcy is likwise credited by Catholic writers
with having so carefully mislaid the letter from
minister at Rome to the President that it was
never seen again.
While the tremors were dancing along Washing-
ton's ever sensitive nerves, a group in the hinter-
land was whittling another stick to thrust into the
archiepiscopal chariot wheels . The band was com-
posed of sundry German and Italian revolutionists
and anti-clericals whom the European uproars of
1848 had blown across the Atlantic, and it was led
by an apostate priest named Gavazzi . Bedini had
once been commissary of the papal legation at
STICKS, STONES, TAR AND FEATHERS 139
Bologna. Troublous times had set in, and in true
Romanist style Bedini had not hesitated to clap a
few upstarts into jail and decree a shooting or two .
Out of these facts, Gavazzi and his pals cooked up
the appetizing tale that Bedini, while an officer at
Bologna, had put to death a rebel priest named Ugo
Bassi, having first seen to it that Bassi was skinned
alive.
Several English and Continental newspapers
(the London Quarterly Review, for one) later
investigated the yarn at their leisure, and cleared
Bedini. Catholics in America, however, were
caught without proofs pro or con . Bedini paid no
attention to the story, which was meat for the
haters of Catholicity in the United States . Know-
Nothing knives flashed out all over the country the
moment the visitor left Washington for the in-
terior.
His progress was a mixture of triumphal tour
and martyr's parade, with the stake barely evaded
several times. Bedini was the highest Catholic
dignitary exhibited in person in the United States
up to that time, and hence the Catholics strutted
their gaudiest paraphernalia for him wherever he
went. By the same token the anti-Catholics for-
got their local hatreds and fixed their most earnest
attention on this sky-filling menace from beyond
sea.
A conspiracy to assassinate the nuncio was
140 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
uncovered and choked by the police in New York
City. He was feted by his friends, called every
known variety of dog and dog's progeny by his
enemies, in Pittsburgh . Cincinnati's welcome con-
sisted of (a) a huge special service inside the local
cathedral in the archbishop's honor, and (b) the
swift collecting outside the cathedral of a Know-
Nothing mob howlfully desirous of making him
guest of honor at a lynching party . The police
wounded several of the would-be lynchers .
For seven turbulent months Bedini remained in
the United States. His hated presence had no little
to do with inflaming the passions of potential
Know-Nothings and so making converts to that
mushrooming party . Conversely, this presence in
the United States of one who had seen and talked
with the Pope himself heated many a Catholic's
faith to the fighting point, not to mention the num-
ber of hesitating heretics it induced to climb into
the Roman fold.
Bedini at length completed his labors among the
German hagglers. He left the United States by
way of New York - in secret, to escape a Know-
Nothing mob athirst for his blood . Subsequently
he advised the Pope that he had found the Catholic
church in the United States flourishing, and " con-
fronting a decaying and disintegrating Protestant-
ism, strong only in prejudice ." Which, of course,
is a commentary on just how forgiving and just
STICKS, STONES, TAR AND FEATHERS 141
how Christlike any Christian official of any sect is
or can reasonably be expected to be .
As promised, we give here a list of the more
important Know-Nothing-Catholic fights of the
period.
1853 -
The Bedini riots - Boston, Baltimore, Wheel-
ing, St. Louis, Cincinnati.
1854 -
Gang of Know-Nothings and Ulstermen from
New York City raided St. Mary's Catholic church,
Newark; one Irishman shot and killed ; some statu-
ary destroyed.
St. Anne's church, Manchester, N. H., raided
in Fourth of July outburst of patriotism .
Father John Bapst, S. J., tarred, feathered, rid-
den around Ellsworth, Me., on a rail.
Catholic church burned at Bath, Me .
Churches at Dorchester, Mass ., and Sidney,
Ohio, blown up with gunpowder by persons un-
known.
Catholic church burned at Massillon, Ohio.
Attempt made to burn Ursuline convent, Gal-
veston, Texas.
Fire started in Church of Sts. Peter and Paul,
Brooklyn, N. Y. Numerous fights in New York
City between young Irish gangs and the " Wide-
142 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
awakes," young nativists wearing wide-brimmed
felt hats as insignia.
Convent of Sisters of Mercy, Providence, R. I.,
threatened by Know-Nothing mob, but saved by
Catholics rallying under Bishop O'Reilly, who
warned that any Know-Nothing setting foot on
convent ground would be shot.
Riot at St. Louis, ten killed .
Ducking party at Washington, Know-Nothing
mob officiating ; guest of honor, a marble slab sent
by the Pope for inclusion in the then building
Washington monument ; scene of festivities, the
banks of the Potomac river.
1 855 -
Bloody Monday, Louisville, Ky ., as described in
the text.
1856 -
Election riots between Know-Nothings and
Irish Democrats in Baltimore. For Baltimore's
Know-Nothing experiences, see a later chapter .
CHAPTER XIX
SLAUGHTER IN VIRGINIA
IT has been related how the Know-Nothings
elected one governor and a sackful of Congressmen
and legislators in 1854, and how their prospects for
a national sweep in 1856 were pronounced more
than bright by full many a diagnostician of politi-
cal symptoms.
Now comes the great battle between Democrats
and Know-Nothings which filled with smoke and
screams of agony the Virginia spring of 1855, and
incidentally snapped the lumbar vertebrae of Know-
Nothingism as a national power. It is indeed Vir-
ginia, boasting its religious liberty statute as
heritage from Thomas Jefferson, which has the
distinction of having served as religious fanat-
icism's fiercest battleground during the Know-
Nothing period.
The first Know-Nothing council in Virginia was
organized in Jefferson's own home town of Char-
lottesville. The happy event took place in the sum-
mer of 1854. There were few Roman Catholics in
Virginia, but it was noted throughout the South
that Catholic immigrants were rapidly filling up
143
144 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
the northern free states and pushing the doctrines
of negro freedom into the western territories, all of
which meant an ever heavier balance in Congress
against the South.
At any rate, the order spread throughout Vir-
ginia with the same prairie-fire speed it had
exhibited at the north. The Whig party was mori-
bund, the Republican party was forming state
organizations but had yet to hold its first national
convention. The Whigs hated the principles of
Jefferson, and hence would not join the Democratic
party ; but even that, to southern Whigs, was pref-
erable to the Republican party, which was against
slavery. Hence, the success of the Know-Nothing
organizers in the South. They gathered in grateful
Whigs by the shoal.
Winchester was the scene of the first Virginia
Know-Nothing convention, called to order in
March of 1855 . The delegates were registered at
the hotels under false names, and no record remains
to show who they were . They nominated for gover-
nor a fine old ex-Whig and able politician-lawyer,
one Thomas Stanhope Flournoy of Halifax county.
James M. H. Beale of Mason was put up for
lieutenant-governor, John M . Patton of Richmond
for attorney-general . The first families of Virginia,
old style, were represented on that ticket, because
the county squires had all been Whigs and were leap-
ing into the Know-Nothing boat as their own sank
SLAUGHTER IN VIRGINIA 1 45
under their feet. John Syme, one of this alienated
old guard, used, when asked if a Democrat was a
gentleman, to reply : " He is apt not to be ; but if he
is, he is in damned bad company."
Four months prior to the Know-Nothing conven-
tion, the Virginia Democrats had held theirs, meet-
ing decorously in the Methodist church at Staun-
ton. On the second ballot, they nominated Henry
A. Wise for governor .
Wise was also a lawyer, and a personal friend of
Flournoy, the Know-Nothing candidate . He was a
speaker to whom William Jennings Bryan or Billy
Sunday might well have gone for pointers on how
to lash mob passions, and a politician who would
have delighted the heart of Alfred E . Smith. Added
to that, the man had ideas and was a fighter. He be-
lieved in the Democratic party as sired by Jeffer-
son, he felt that slavery's elimination was a thing
for time, not fire-breathing abolitionists prophesy-
ing war, to accomplish, and he decided that if he
was to win this election he must fight like the very
devil.
Wise fought. Expecting the nomination, he took
occasion to slap down his cards on the table long
before the Democratic convention met . The Nor-
folk council of Know-Nothings sent him a question
about his attitude toward Catholics and aliens, in
tone rather like the questionnaires with which the
modern Anti-Saloon League habitually torments
146 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
all candidates for offices higher than dog-catcher-
ships. Wise made reply in this fashion :
" I belong to a secret society, but for no political
purpose. I am a native Virginian; intus et in cute,
a Virginian; my ancestors on both sides for two
hundred years were citizens of this country and
this State -half English, half Scotch. I am a
Protestant by birth, by baptism, by intellectual
belief, by education, by adoption . I am an Ameri-
can in every fibre, and in every feeling an Ameri-
can ; yet in every character, in every relation, in
every sense, with all my head and with all my heart
and with all my might, I protest against this secret
organization of native Americans, and of Protes-
tants to proscribe Roman Catholics and naturalized
citizens! "
Once in the fight, Wise fought as if he had meant
every word of that crashing salvo of English . He
charged up and down Virginia, from Alexandria to
Danville. He filled the town churches, the cross-
roads court-houses and meeting-houses, with his
voice of brass and thunder .
There was cunning in his roaring. Thus craftily
he played on the Southern hatred of everything
Yankee, as summed up in the prevailing Yankee
religion
" Gentlemen, but a short time back, New Eng-
land - Massachusetts especially - had but one
SLAUGHTER IN VIRGINIA 14. 7
ism within her limits, and that was Puritanism, the
religion of the old Covenanters and Congregation-
alists - Puritanism, full of vitality, full of spiritu-
ality - Puritanism that made even the barren
rock of Plymouth to fructify, that made the New
Englanders a strong people, that made them a rich
people, that made them a learned people .
" But since they have waxed fat, since they have
begun to build churches by lottery, begun to moral-
ize mankind by legislation, begun to play petty
Providences for the people, begun to be Protestant
Popes over the consciences of men, begun to preach
` Christian Politics,' such as you have heard -
Puritanism has disappeared. And we have in place
of it Unitarianism, Universalism, Fourierism, Mil-
lerism, Mormonism - all the other odds and ends
of isms - until at last you have a grand fusion of
all those odds and ends of isms in the omnium
gatherum of isms called Know-Nothingism! "
And thus cunningly he hitched Old Glory and the
Bill of Rights to the Pope, causing the two to paint
the third in colors barely distinguishable from the
Red, White and Blue :
" You tell the people that Catholics never gave
aid to civil liberty ; that they never yet struck a
blow for the freedom of mankind .
" Who gave you alliance against the King of
England? Who but that Catholic King, Louis XVI?
148 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
He sent you from the court of Versailles the boy
of Washington's camp, a foreigner who never
was naturalized, but bled at the redoubt of York-
town. . . .
" And not only that . In that intense moment
when the Declaration of our Independence was
brought into Carpenter's hall by Rutledge and
Franklin and Jefferson, and laid upon the table -
that holy paper, which not only pledged life and
honor but fortune too . . . at length one spare,
palefaced man arose and went and dipped the pen
into ink and signed ' Charles Carroll ' . . . a
Catholic representative from a Catholic colony ."
Lest there be murmurs that all these are mod-
ern instances and the Inquisition and St . Bartholo-
mew's remain without an alibi, let's pour a little
aged-in-the-wood history into mouths that by now
are gaping wide :
" And sir, six hundred and forty years ago, on
the 16th of June, 1214, there was another scene
enacted on the face of the globe, when the general
character of all charters of freedom was gained -
when one man - a man called Stephen Langton
- swore the barons of England, for the people,
against the orders of the Pope and against the
power of the King - swore the barons on the high
altar of the Catholic church at St . Edmondsbury,
that they would have Magna Carta or die for it
SLAUGHTER IN VIRGINIA 149
. . . and if you Know-Nothings don't know who
Stephen Langton was, you know nothing sure
enough. He was a Catholic Archbishop of Canter-
bury."
The familiar Bryan trick of leading the actual
aggressors to a weeping bout for that they were
being themselves trodden upon, Wise played with
his endlessly repeated and hammered home slogan,
" Save the Protestant churches from the pollution
of party politics ! "
He was a master politician, this Virginian, a
boldly piratical fighter, a tactician of the first
caliber, and as generally admirable a man as a
politician can be .
His roarings filled the land . Newspapers as far
away as St. Louis carried columns about his cam-
paign. Know-Nothingism had met some one who
miraculously was not afraid of it ; a politician had
arisen who could summon the courage to take re-
ligious prejudice by both horns and try to twist its
neck. Excitement rose like an unseen wave as
Wise boiled up and down the Dominion. Stacks of
bills, notes and cheques wagered on the outcome
swelled the safes of stakeholders.
Flournoy, by the way, did practically no cam-
paigning. He seems to have been swept off his feet
by the fury of Wise's attack ; or perhaps his heart
was not with the party which had chosen him . He
150 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
let the escaped nuns and the ex-priests, the whis-
perers and the blackmailers, do his electioneering.
On May 24, 1855, Wise, having traveled more
than three thousand miles in the primitive convey-
ances of the day and having made innumerable
speeches, galloped down the track to a victory of
83,424 votes against Flournoy's 73,244.
" I have met the Black Knight with his visor
down," he trumpeted to his constituents, " and his
shield and lance are broken ."
They were, and more thoroughly than Wise sup-
posed. This joust had had a nation for an audience,
and that audience could never again look upon
the Black Knight with its erstwhile awe . Worse, the
Knight, within the month, was fated to fall off the
horse he had ridden to so many conquests with such
notable results . Wise could not know it, but the
days of Know-Nothingism were numbered from the
night in which his plurality was totted up on Vir-
ginia's election records.
CHAPTER XX
SAM FORGETS THE POPE
THE second body blow to Sam's national pres-
tige as a political party came less than one month
after the Virginia election of May, 1855, in which
Wise had scored his triumph. This thrust, Sam
delivered to himself. The occasion was the national
council of the party held at Philadelphia in June of
that year, and the exact nature of the dig was that
the party, with rashness unsurpassed, determined
to take politics seriously. That is to say, it per-
mitted itself to roll an eye in the direction of the
one truly important national issue of that day :
negro slavery.
No jest is intended here .
Know-Nothingism's success up to this time was
founded on the fact that you can interest more peo-
ple more quickly with a false issue than you can
with a real one. The average person hates to think .
Slavery was the institution whose economic and
humanitarian implications really harried the na-
tion. Popery was the issue to which brains that
shrank from thought could flee and, fleeing, exhale
the long sigh of content that comes from rational-
ization achieved.
151
152 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Had the Know-Nothings, then, let the frightful
and fundamental and bitterly depressing question
of slavery severely alone, had they kept waving
their own original gorgeously colored and wind-
bloated Chinese paper fish of an issue in the eyes
of the suckers and the lame-brains, their power
should have persisted and grown . All the flock
wished to do was to keep up the pleasant pastime
of cutting Catholics and foreigners out of business ;
all it wished to graze upon was the ever widening
acreage of anti-Catholic literature with which the
Know-Nothing presses were sowing the country.
But no. James Barker, Erastus Brooks, Sam Hous-
ton and the other leaders must needs call a council
of all the state organizations to regiment the faith-
ful into some definite attitude toward the thing
that mattered.
After some haggling, a committee on resolutions
was named and this group went into secret session .
They remained secluded for three whole days,
while the delegates jabbered and swapped chew-
ing tobacco in the taverns of old Philadelphia. The
nation's eyes were upon that council, and well
the solemn, self-conscious bigwigs of Know-Noth-
ingism knew it.
When at last the resolutions committee emerged
from the secret chambers, it carried a monster in its
arms - the monster that in due time was to rise
and slay the party that bore it . The slavery resolu-
SAM FORGETS THE POPE 1 53
tions, as presented to the national council for rati-
fication, (i) urged Congress not to prohibit slavery
in any territory belonging to the United States, and
(2) told Congress that in it resided no power to
keep any territory from entering the Union as a
state on the ground that that territory's constitu-
tion recognized slavery as lawful.
This, as every one knows, was the position held
by the Southern States, and by them fought for
from Sumter to Appomattox. Should the resolution
be adopted as the sense of the Philadelphia gather-
ing, the Know-Nothing party would stand com-
mitted to the views of the slaveholders of the South,
and opposed to the shrieking abolitionists and the
multitude of calm foes of slavery in the North .
The fight raged for three days in the open
council. The northern Know-Nothings saw their
chances slipping, the Southerners forgot national
possibilities and battled to line up the party for
slavery, which they regarded as their section's
economic lifeblood .
In the scrimmage, the official head of the na-
tional president himself, James W . Barker of New
York City, was chopped off, and E . B. Bartlett
of Kentucky reigned in Barker's stead . Barker's
downfall presaged the outcome of the struggle . On
the third day after the committee reported, the
Southern view prevailed, and the Know-Nothing
party declared for slavery by a vote of 8o to 59 .
154 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
So terrible was the effect of having tackled the
real issue that, immediately the ballots were
counted, a frightful schism rent the party in twain .
Twelve states bolted the council - Maine, New
Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
Rhode Island, Ohio, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois,
Iowa, Wisconsin . These delegations repudiated the
slavery plank, while the southern Know-Nothings
went home in glee to make ready for the fall cam-
paigns in their respective states with the pro-
slavery plank nailed into the platform.
The Know-Nothing party was fated henceforth
to be nothing more than a congeries of statewide
and section-wide factions, knit only by the tenuous
threads of a common name and a common ritual .
Only a miracle could have rewelded it into a na-
tional party . The miracle never happened .
CHAPTER XXI
Pop !
THE politicos of rival parties read the signs of
breakup which the Virginia election and the Phila-
delphia council had unrolled, and lay low . State
elections were coming up in the fall of that fateful
year of 1855, and no cautious politician would com-
mit himself until they were over.
We have been able to dredge from the records
the names and specific utterances of only three
nationally known politicians who, prior to Know-
Nothingism's Waterloo year, had the courage
openly to defy the order. These were Henry A .
Wise, who had been elected governor of Virginia ;
Stephen A. Douglas, of the Lincoln-Douglas de-
bates, no less, who put a solemn curse upon Know-
Nothingism during a Fourth of July oration at
Independence Hall, Philadelphia, in 1854 ; and
Charles Allen of Massachusetts . Allen informed the
world, in a political speech just before the election
of 1854 in Worcester, Massachusetts :
" Perhaps I am speaking too boldly, but I learned
to speak boldly a long time ago . I will speak my
sentiments in the face of any organization ; or, if
'55
156 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
it does not show its face, though its secret mines
are beneath my feet, and unseen hands ready to
apply the match, I will declare those sentiments
that a freeman is bound to utter ."
And the fall elections of 1855 proved that the
discreet politicians were wise in their generation.
The Know-Nothings elected governors and legis-
lative majorities that year in Massachusetts, New
Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Connecticut . New
York voted for minor officials only, but the Know-
Nothings harvested most of these . Know-Nothing
governors were elected in Kentucky and in far-off
California. Texas put a few Know-Nothings into
lesser state jobs, while the Democrats were barely
able to beat the meteor party in their southern
citadels of Alabama, Louisiana, Georgia and Mis-
sissippi.
Following these elections, singly and in groups,
the politicians began to crawl out of their hurricane
cellars. The land presently filled with a mighty
shouting. Know-Nothingism and all its works were
being denounced . It became the fashion to thunder
anathema against the party.
The new Republican party, in its New York
state convention of December, 1855, allowed Hor-
ace Greeley to write the platform and to swing his
right arm elbow-free on the topic of Know-
Nothingism. The Democrats in the congress which
Pop! 157
convened that same month passed solemn resolu-
tions damning poor Sam . Both parties, by the time
their national conventions assembled in the follow-
ing year, were perfectly sure of their ground on
this subject, and both nailed anti-Know-Nothing
planks into their national platforms. The new party
had split on the rock of slavery, and rapid was its
sinking.
From the first faulting along the Mason-Dixon
line, the step was but natural to a multitude of
intrastate cleavages into rival bodies, each of which
claimed to have a monopoly of the one true anti-
papal and anti-foreigner faith . In Illinois, for ex-
ample, the once tough and homogeneous Ameri-
can party divided to become the Sams and the
Jonathans. In New York City, Charles B. Allen,
who had brought his lodge, the Sons of the Sires,
into the original party in 1852, pulled them out
again in 1855 . Before long, at least three nativist,
anti-Catholic orders were blooming wanly in New
York City where once the giant orchid of Know-
Nothingism had smelled supreme . These were the
Know-Somethings, the North Americans and the
Mountain Sweets, not to mention Allen's crowd of
disaffected members.
In such a state of active disintegration the party
convened at Philadelphia on Washington's birth-
day, 1856, to put a Presidential ticket in the field .
An amateur political correspondent could have
158 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
foretold the outcome . There was an orgy of bellow-
ing, and eventually, no one quite knew how, Mill-
ard Fillmore was nominated for President.
Fillmore had been President once, succeeding
Zachary Taylor from the Vice-Presidency when
Taylor died in office . He had begun his political life
as an anti-Andrew Jackson Democrat ; later he had
become a Whig. An opportunist and a middle-of-
the-roader in all respects, Fillmore was seized upon
by the Know-Nothings as a man likely to take any
road that seemed to lead back to the White House,
and the Know-Nothing judgment proved correct .
Fillmore's nomination was later endorsed by what
remained of the Whig party.
The Republicans put up John Charles Fremont,
of California and Indian fighting fame, as their
nominee for President . The story was circulated
about Fremont that he was a Catholic . As a matter
of fact, he was by birth and baptism a Protestant
Episcopalian, though he and his wife had been
married, after an elopement, by a Roman Catholic
priest.
To a bloc of extreme pope-haters in the Know-
Nothing party the nomination of Millard Fill-
more was not agreeable. These bolted the conven-
tion, and offered a Presidential nomination of their
own to N . P. Banks, whom in brighter days the
Know-Nothing delegation in Congress had elected
Speaker of the House after a two-month fight .
Banks refused to run ; whereupon, a majority of
Pop! 159
the schismatics flopped to -of all candidates -
the Republicans' allegedly Catholic nominee, Fre-
mont. The balance of them nominated R. F. Stock-
ton of New Jersey, doubtless more with a view to
letting the world know they would never stomach
Fremont than with any hope of electing their man.
The campaign of 1856 was the wildest jamboree
since the Tippecanoe-and-Tyler-too circus of six-
teen years before, and then some . Fremont was the
very captain-general of the Pope to those nativists
who believed him a Catholic ; the star of negro free-
dom and banner bearer of a great new party to his
worshipers in the North; an unspeakable nigger
lover down South. Fillmore was to some the man
who would keep the Pope where he belonged and
the Catholic and alien out of the good political
jobs, while others saw him as a mere straw man
kicked along at the head of a procession of trim-
mers and religious fanatics . James Buchanan, who
led the Democratic parade, symbolized the slave-
holding South and its obnoxious aristocrats to the
Northerners; he was the savior of all that was
right and productive of profits to the voters down
South.
Buchanan was elected President . Fremont ran
a good second, evidencing a lasting vigor in the
new Republican party . Poor Fillmore was lost in
the shuffle, but was dug up some days later and
found to hold, tightly clutched in his fist, the elec-
toral vote of the state of Maryland.
CHAPTER XXII
DEATH RATTLES
KNOWNOTHINGISM never seriously threat-
ened to carry a national election after 1856 . Fol-
lowing that election, there was but one city of the
first class which did not promptly forget the Pope
and resume with increased intensity the chattering
and fretting about the negro and what could be
done for him that finally brought on the Civil War.
This city was Baltimore . The cow and corn and cot-
ton states of Kentucky, Virginia, North Carolina,
Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland and Tennessee con-
tinued sufficiently agitated over the Romish men-
ace to send a scattering of Know-Nothing congress-
men to Washington until the year 1859 .
Baltimore's Know-Nothing adventure furnishes
a splendid picture of what is to be expected when-
ever sectarianism lays hands on the political steer-
ing wheel.
The Know-Nothings captured the city in 1854,
and held on until 186o. Once in power, they
promptly forgot their pre-election promises of fair
play for all and busied themselves with construct-
ing a political machine designed to keep Baltimore
i6o
DEATH RATTLES 161
forever in the hands of Protestants. The Know-
Nothing district clubs became gangs organized for
the sole purpose of patrolling the election booths
and keeping Catholic voters at home.
Some of these gangs were named the Tigers, the
Black Snakes, the Rip Raps, the Blood Tubs, the
Plug Uglies . The Blood Tubs, who were butchers
by trade, conceived the plan of carrying hogsheads
of beef blood to the polls and splashing it merrily
on any Catholic who turned up with a view to ex-
ercising his constitutional right to the ballot . Kid-
napping whole battalions of Catholic voters and
sequestering them in cellars and warehouses until
the polls closed was another device of the Balti-
more Know-Nothing gangs .
For a time the Catholics fought, but the going
became too rough for them. They maintained a few
gangs of their own in the first year or two after the
Know-Nothing sweep, some of these bearing the
appellations of Bloody Eights, Bloats, Buttenders .
The Catholics, or Democrats, were at length
able to recapture Baltimore only through the good
offices of the state legislature . The Know-Nothings
owned the metropolitan police body and soul. Hav-
ing built up a majority in the legislature from dis-
tricts outside Baltimore, the Democrats in 186o
procured passage of a law which snatched the Bal-
timore police from local control and placed the
force under a legislative commission .
162 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Thereupon, an allegedly fair election was held .
The Democrats cleaned the Know-Nothings out of
the political machine-gun nests, and proceeded to
give Baltimore a brace of administrations which
equaled anything the Know-Nothings had achieved
in the line of crookedness and corruption .
The Massachusetts "smelling committee " fur-
nishes material for a paragraph or two. Massachu-
setts' Know-Nothing legislature (1855) gave ear
and action to a favorite cry of anti-Catholic agita-
tors everywhere : the demand for state inspection
of convents. A committee was named to perform
this task which would have tickled the soul of
Elmer Gantry, and under the leadership of a bawdy
rascal named Hiss it set forth on its snooping tour
of the Massachusetts nunneries . The story of the
committee's trip is full of fetid details having to do
with the plundering of nuns' wardrobes, and so
forth. The legislature was finally compelled to ap-
point a committee to investigate the smelling com-
mittee, then a committee to investigate the investi-
gating committee, next a committee to investigate
- but why go on with this?
Two paper battles of unusual ferocity oc-
curred during the Know-Nothing party's period of
glory followed by debacle . One was the Arch-
bishop Hughes-Senator Brooks controversy, the
other an astonishing tilt between the Episcopal
bishop of Vermont and the Catholic archbishop of
Baltimore.
DEATH RATTLES 163
Archbishop Hughes (New York) was stung into
a resumption of his ancient habit of writing to the
newspapers by a remark made in the legislature by
Erastus Brooks, a Know-Nothing state Senator and
party mogul. The Church Property Bill, a pet
Know-Nothing measure, was before the Senate for
discussion. This bill called for the taking of legal
title to church property away from clerics and
giving it to trustees of each congregation. Said
Brooks:
" I suppose its [the property standing in the
name of John Hughes as archbishop] value to be,
in New York alone, not much short of $5,000,000."
The fighting archbishop instantly wrote one of
his most biting letters to the New York Courier and
Enquirer. He expressed pleased surprise at the dis-
covery of his hitherto unsuspected wealth, and went
on to say that, while much had been done of recent
years toward spreading knowledge through the
world, Brooks's speech showed that much remained
to be done. Hence, promised Hughes, he would put
away a portion of his riches for his old age, and
with the rest he would erect a huge public library in
New York City, and name it after Erastus Brooks,
if Brooks would but point out a tract of land ac-
quired by the archbishop from any church trustees
whatsoever, whereon to place the library.
Brooks dug up a multitude of conveyances from
the city records, published ten of them verbatim in
164 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
the long-suffering Courier and Enquirer, and sol-
emnly demanded that construction of the library
commence forthwith . Hughes demonstrated that
many of Brooks's finds were leases (albeit one was
a 999-year lease at one cent a year), that others
were duplications, and so on. The discussion grew
exceeding windy and abusive . Of course the whole
quibble was on Hughes's powers as holder of naked
legal titles .
At length, Brooks having named certain proper-
ties as belonging to the archbishop, to which
Hughes in fact had not legal title, Hughes sat up
late one night to cut the following gem with the
acid that flowed from his pen :
" When Mr. Brooks wrote this, he knew as well
as I do, that I am not the owner of a solitary square
inch of ground on 5oth or 51st street ; and, with
this knowledge in his mind, Mr. Erastus Brooks
has exhibited himself in the light of a man who has
no regard for veracity, and who is, therefore, ut-
terly unworthy of notice . I take him, consequently,
with covered hands, to the nearest open sash of a
window, and send him forth, with the single men-
tal observation - ` Go hence, wretched and vile in-
sect: the world has space for you as well as for
me.' "
Brooks got the decision from a majority of the
press, but the archbishop did not build the library .
DEATH RATTLES 165
The legislature passed the Church Property Bill,
which remained law to the great harassment of the
Catholic church in New York until 1863 - when,
as a Catholic historian remarks, the New York regi-
ments needed Catholic soldiers .
The Vermont vs. Maryland conflict arose from a
classic exhibition of gall by the Most Reverend
Francis Patrick Kenrick, archbishop of Baltimore.
Kenrick had been greatly impressed by a reading
of The End of Controversy, by the Vicar Apostolic
to Great Britain, Milner . Laying down this work,
Kenrick proceeded to circularize all the Protestant
Episcopal bishops in the United States with a let-
ter wherein they were advised to return immedi-
ately to the Church of Rome lest all their flocks
should leave them overnight .
Bishop John H. Hopkins (Episcopal) of Ver-
mont took pen in hand . He was already an anti-
Catholic crusader of some repute, having written
several books with such workaday titles as The
Church of Rome in her Primitive Purity Compared
with the Church of Rome at the Present Day and
An Humble Address to the Bishops, Clergy and
Laity of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the
United States, on the Tolerating Among Our Min-
istry o f the Doctrines o f the Church o f Rome. But
here was an opportunity to do some real battling
for the faith of the extreme anti-papal Low Church-
man.
166 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Hopkins produced a two-volume rebuke to Ken-
rick, under the title " The End o f Controversy "
Controverted . In this masterpiece, he went back to
the moment when the first speculative leer in the
direction of Anne Boleyn began to form on the face
of Henry VIII, and scoured church history thence-
forward to the day before his book went to press,
with the single aim of proving Milner a liar and
Kenrick an intriguing scoundrel.
One quotation from Hopkins must suffice . The
book was wheezy with purple writing, of which this
is a sample :
" . . . since the nod of the reigning pontiff can
place the Cardinal of Rome amongst the princes
of the earth, and open to him the road to the lofty
throne of Papal supremacy, where he may be rev-
erenced as a king of kings, and have his feet kissed
by the noblest lips of Europe, and fancy himself
authorized to wield the vicarial sceptre of the om-
nipotent Son of God! "
The Know-Nothing movement in the cities gen-
erally devoluted to its first status, splitting up into
a half-dozen feeble and uninteresting lodges whose
members passed many a resolution in the tenor of
those promulgated by Big Bill Thompson's Amer-
ica First Foundation, and accomplished as little
toward realizing their cloudy aims as Big Bill's
lodge promises to accomplish at this writing. Bar-
DEATH RATTLES 167
ker and Judson and Brooks, from the mighty men
they had been, dropped to the estates for which na-
ture had designed them from birth .
Like rats swarming over the side of a sinking
ship, the politicians who had beamed on the Ameri-
can party in its lusty youth, who had even pat-
ronizingly joined the party when that had seemed
the sensible thing to -do, now deserted it by the
baker's dozen, by the carload . The favorite alibi
ran as follows : (a) that these fearless fellows had
never meant their Know-Nothing pledges at all;
(b) that they had subscribed to Sam's flatulent
oaths with their fingers crossed ; (c) that what they
had actually been about all along was the clubbing
to death of the Whig party, which had betrayed
both North and South by its miserable equivocat-
ing on slavery; and (d) that, Whiggery being now
dispatched, these paragons were returning to the
parties which backed worthy candidates and em-
braced essential doctrines .
The sweet story was told with especial effect and
pathos in Massachusetts. Senator G. F. Hoar of
that state related the incident thus amiably in his
Autobiography of Seventy Years :
"But a good many anti-slavery men who
thought the party feeling of the Whigs and Demo-
crats was a great obstacle to their cause, joined the
movement simply in order that they might get rid
I68 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
of the old parties, and prepare the state as with a
subsoil plow for a new one . They had no belief in
the proscriptive doctrines, and were willing that
men of foreign births and Catholics should have
their just rights, and expected to destroy the
Know-Nothing party in its turn when it had de-
stroyed Whiggery and Democracy.
" Of these was Henry Wilson, who owed his first
election to the Senate to the Know-Nothing legis-
lature; and Eli Thayer, who had been the organ-
izer of the Emigrant Aid society and the movement
for the deliverance of Kansas and Nebraska."
Catholicity lifted its bloody head again, to go
about the business of building churches and mak-
ing proselytes and solidifying against the infidel
and heretic the battlements of what Catholics are
pleased to call the One True Faith.
The Civil War was imminent . God was in His
heaven, and practically everything was wrong with
the United States and growing worse . But the Pope
remained in Rome, praise be, and the President sat
secure in the White House . The nation had been
saved from papal overlordship, at least. Judson,
Barker, Allen et al. - a million and a half alios -
had not sweated in vain.
CHAPTER XXIII
SKIRMISHES
SEVERAL items in the story of church conflict
from the Civil War's beginning to the A .P.A. join
onto no movement but deserve sketchy narration .
Some of these are merely exciting and not a little
romantic. One of them, at least, echoes into this
present like a fairy-tale of old time which many a
child mind in an adult body still believes.
There is the question of the dread role played by
the Catholic church, and particularly by the Jesuits,
in the War Between the States . Many an evangeli-
cal chair smasher in the jungles of Indiana or Ar-
kansas has electrified his audiences with the asser-
tion that the Union was threatened, not by the
Confederates alone, but also, in fact chiefly when
you come right down to it, by emissaries of ambi-
tious Rome at work on the waxen wills of Jefferson
Davis and his coterie. Anti-papal books can be pro-
cured today in which this claim is proved so com-
pletely that not a doubt of its truth remains in the
minds of the books' authors .
Some research and even a little thought led the
present writer to conclude that the story is ground-
16g
170 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
less, and that it is kept alive by two influences only .
One of these is the ever-flaming hatred of the more
forthright among the evangelical clergy for the
Roman Catholic church . The other is the same de-
gree of hatred, embalmed in a book, of a priest of
the last century who was kicked out of the Cath-
olic church and who rounded out the frightful span
of ninety years upon this earth .
The Civil War split several evangelical churches
in twain. The Baptists divided for missionary work
both home and foreign. The Northern and South-
ern Methodist churches frown like a two-headed
monster on liquor, tobacco and petting parties to-
day. Presbyterianism was blasted into ten or more
fighting fragments . Even the suave, genteel and
elastic Protestant Episcopal church split into
northern and southern factions, though it snapped
back to unity immediately after the war.
The Roman Catholic church in the United
States, of course, did not divide on the rock of war.
A nation is but a secular, worldly division in the
worldwide spiritual domain of the Pope as alleged
vicar of God. Catholic chaplains could with perfect
anesthesia of conscience march and starve and pray
with the armies of both Union and Confederacy,
even as Catholic communicants could and did bat-
tle in large numbers on either side . A priest or a
parson who cannot discern the presence of God on
his own side of the firing line is commonly held sub-
SKIRMISHES 171
normal and must suffer the consequences . But these
phenomena do not affect the universality of the
Roman Catholic church.
What more natural than that the doctors of
those churches which did divide, and so vitally
weaken themselves, should have been able with ex-
treme ease to draw implications of treason from the
unbroken unity of the Catholic church? It was
easier to charge the Jesuits, those mysterious sol-
diers of Rome, with treasonous intentions than it
was to charge any other body of Catholics .
The Knights of the Golden Circle, a secret so-
ciety formed by the anti-war Democrats of the
North in the hope of forcing an end to the war,
was thought by many to be officered by Jesuits . It
was, as a matter of almost but not quite established
fact, chieftained by Fernando Wood, war mayor of
New York. Its membership comprised from 200,-
000 to 300,000 pacifistic Northern Democrats .
These were intent on hamstringing a war-harried
Republican administration for the benefit of the
Democrats, not that of the Church of Rome . The
fact that many Catholics happened then, as now, to
be Democrats, added richness to the Jesuit odor
wished upon the Knights of the Golden Circle .
The Vatican's diplomacy down the ages has been
consistently not of a stupid variety . What could
have been more stupid than for the Catholic hier-
archy to have intrigued for either side in the Amer-
172 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
ican Civil War? The Protestant denominations
were rent and confounded by the struggle . The war
could not last forever . The obvious policy for Cath-
olicity, plain enough to have penetrated even the
thickish skull of Pius IX, was to step lightly and be
polite to everybody so long as the war should last,
in preparation for a clean-up in souls following the
conclusion of a treaty of peace .
There is the logic underlying the answer to the
question whether Catholicity was in any way dis-
loyal in the Civil War. The evidence of disloyalty
adduced by the Catholic-haters is detailed and in-
teresting, but too voluminous to introduce here . If
you can believe in the truth of either the evidence
or the facts it is claimed to prove, you can believe
in astrology Or the sincerity of the average cow-
town evangelist.
Reference has been made to the books of Re-
becca Reed and Maria Monk, which share the
honor of being known to Catholic historians as the
Uncle Tom's Cabin of anti-Romanism in the Uni-
ted States. The third masterwork in the nineteenth
century's trilogy of hate, and the last really epic
volume against Catholicism to have been produced
thus far in America, is now before us for brief con-
sideration.
The title of this 832-page champion among books
is Fifty Years in the Church of Rome, and the
SKIRMISHES 1'73
genius who wrote it - for he was a genius - was
a gentleman blessed with the tinkling name of
Charles Pascal Telesphore Chiniquy.
Chiniquy was born in 18o9 and did not depart
this life until 1899. He began his clerical career in
1833, as a Catholic priest in a French-Canadian
parish. He was a turbulent soul, and was several
times called on the carpet by his ordinary. At length
he removed to Illinois, to take charge of a congre-
gation of French-Canadian colonists at St . Anne,
in Kankakee county, where it was hoped he would
be a good boy . He was formally welcomed into the
diocese of Chicago.
But presently Chiniquy was on the loose again,
and Bishop Anthony O'Regan withdrew his facul-
ties. Chiniquy quit the Catholic church and formed
a sect of his own, which he named the Christian
Catholic. It had no connection with the Christian
Catholic organization established a generation
later at Zion City, Illinois, by John Alexander
Dowie.
Chiniquy got himself entangled with the law -
through the villainies of Rome, of course - and it
was in this period of anguish that his acquaintance-
ship among the great of our nation was formed.
Hauled up for trial at Urbana, Illinois, in May of
1856, he relates that his defense was conducted by
Abraham Lincoln and two other lawyers . The two
unnamed counsel charged him a thousand dollars
174 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
for their services, while Lincoln refused to accept
more than a pittance as fee, though it was his " aw-
ful and superhuman eloquent denunciation " of the
Catholics' " infamy, diabolical malice and total
want of Christian and human principle " which
had won the case for Chiniquy .
As Lincoln was signing the due-bill, Chiniquy
burst into tears.
When Lincoln inquired the reason, Chiniquy
claims to have sobbed : " Mr. Lincoln, there were
in the [courtroom] crowd not less than ten or
twelve Jesuits from Chicago and St . Louis, who
came to hear my sentence of condemnation to the
penitentiary. . . . Nothing can be compared to
the expression of their rage against you, when you
wrenched me from their cruel hands. . . . What
troubles my soul just now and draws my tears is
that it seems to me that I have read your sentence
of death in their bloody eyes ."
Now we know who killed Lincoln, and why . Or,
if we do not, we can find out in the remaining six
or seven hundred pages of Fifty Years in the
Church o f Rome. The anti-Catholics in rural Amer-
ica have known for years . They got their informa-
tion from this same book, either directly or by gar-
bled quotations and extracts . Often enough they
did not know where the quotations came from, but
they knew the thing must be true because the par-
son or the anti-Catholic weeklies told them it was .
SKIRMISHES I 75
Chiniquy claimed to have called on Lincoln three
times while the latter was President of the United
States. On one of these occasions Lincoln was too
busy to do more than shake hands, but on the
others Chiniquy's " noble friend " ushered him into
his private office to hear the latest inside stuff on
the Jesuits.
" I am so glad to meet you again," Lincoln bab-
bled happily at their first reunion in 1186I
. " . . . I
will not let you go before telling you that a few
days ago I saw Mr . Morse, the learned inventor of
electric telegraphy ; he told me that when he was in
Rome, not long ago [only 30 years - R. M.], he
found out the proofs of a most formidable conspir-
acy against this country and all its institutions. It is
evident that it is to the intrigues and emissaries of
the Pope that we owe, in great part, the horrible
Civil War which is threatening to cover the country
with blood and ruins ."
Chiniquy called on the President again the next
day. He repeated his warning that the Jesuits were
even then hunting for some one possessed of the
devil's courage to assassinate Lincoln . The Presi-
dent countered with these words, among numerous
others :
" I may add, today, that I have a presentiment
that God will call me to Him through the hand of
an assassin. Let His will, and not mine, be done !
176 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
. . . I will be forever grateful for the warning
words you have addressed to me about the
dangers. . . .
" I feel more and more every day, that it is not
against the Americans of the South alone that I am
fighting ; it is more against the Pope of Rome, his
perfidious Jesuits, and their blind and bloodthirsty
slaves, than against the real American Protestants,
that we have to defend ourselves ."
The delver into the literature of American anti-
Catholicism will find the last paragraph quoted in
numberless books of A .P.A. and Ku Klux days and
the years between . It is frequently garbled and
decorated to suit the editor's fancy . No one else
heard the conversation, for the matters which
Chiniquy had to impart to President Lincoln were
too important for other ears . This ex-priest was as
secretive about his revelations as was the angel
Moroni in making Joseph Smith privy to the ex-
istence of the golden Book of Mormon in the
bowels of the hill Cumorah .
When Chiniquy called for the last time on the
President, " on the morning of June 8th, 1864," or
ten months before Lincoln was shot, " the Presi-
dent listened to my words with breathless atten-
tion."
The words were as before, but multiplied. Lin-
coln's chief contributions to the chitchat were a
SKIRMISHES 1 77
tip, given Chiniquy in strictest confidence, that
General Meade had been tricked by a Jesuit out of
a remorseless pursuit of his victory at Gettysburg,
and the following remark, which can likewise be
found in volumes unnumbered of anti-Catholic lit-
erature as a verified utterance of Abraham Lincoln :
" I do not pretend to be a prophet . But though
not a prophet, I see a very dark cloud on our hori-
zon. And that dark cloud is coming from Rome.
It is filled with tears of blood . It will rise and in-
crease till its flanks will be torn by a flash of light-
ning followed by a fearful peal of thunder . Then a
cyclone such as the world has never seen will pass
over the country, spreading ruin and desolation
from north to south. After it is over there will be
long days of peace and prosperity, for popery with
its merciless inquisition will have been forever
swept away from our country . Neither I nor you,
but our children, will see those things ."
The man who thus, according to Chiniquy,
shoveled his adjectives into palpitating heaps and
grossly overworked his conjunctions and depend-
ent clauses, was the man who also was able to pro-
duce that model of clipped English rhetoric, the
Gettysburg address.
Chiniquy proceeds in the latter part of his book
to build up a huge edifice of proof that Lincoln's
assassination was the result of a Jesuit plot hatched
178 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
in the home of John Surratt, a Catholic. Surratt
was indeed a Catholic, and his wife was undeniably
among those hanged for the murder . And Surratt,
the jury in his trial for murder having disagreed,
did indeed wander off and eventually enlist in the
Papal Zouaves. But the story that the Catholic
church, working through the Jesuits, plotted and
carried through the assassination of Lincoln was
long since blown into a cocked hat - except in the
minds of no one knows how many people resident
on farms and in small towns of the midwest and
southern states.
Against Chiniquy's fearful rot, the Catholics
have little from Lincoln's verified utterances to
quote. He was about as religious a man as was the
late Warren G. Harding, and he made far less pre-
tense to religiosity, while he had all the politician's
horror of being tricked into an argument even re-
motely connected with religion .
Lincoln once did, however, deliver himself on the
subject of the Know-Nothing party . This isolated
utterance is one of the most beloved in the arsenal
of American Catholic propagandists. Contained in
a letter from Lincoln to Joshua Speed, dated
August 24, 1855, it reads as follows :
" I am not a Know-Nothing, that is certain. How
could I be? How can any man who abhors the op-
pression of negroes be in favor of degrading classes
SKIRMISHES 1 79
of white people? Our progress in degeneracy ap-
pears to me pretty rapid. As a nation we began by
declaring that' all men are created equal .' We now
practically read it, ` all men are created equal, ex-
cept negroes.' When the Know-Nothings get con-
trol it will read, ' all men are created equal, except
negroes and foreigners and Catholics .'
" When it comes to this, I shall prefer emigrating
to some country where they make no pretense of
loving liberty - to Russia, for instance, where
despotism can be taken pure, and without the base
alloy of hypocrisy."
The Fenian movement, of which Sinn Fein is
said to be the legitimate heir, can be disposed of in
a few brief sentences so far as concerns the Cath-
olic-Protestant fight in America . Starting off in
1858 under John O'Mahony as Head Centre, Feni-
anism was an Irish revolutionary surge of the
greatest imaginable gaudiness and pomposity, but
of no religious significance whatever.
O'Mahony set up his comic opera government in
the City of New York- his government of Ire-
land, be it understood. Nine hundred shanty Irish
invaded Canada via Buffalo in June, 1867 . The
Toronto volunteers, fourteen hundred in number,
speedily kicked them back across the Niagara river,
and they were as swiftly arrested en masse by a
United States marshal on the Buffalo shore .
180 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
The Fenians' second invasion of Canada, in
1870, was repulsed, and several of their leaders
were arrested by Canadian authorities .
Any anti-Catholic writer who tries to add Fen-
ianism to his list of Catholicity's crimes in the
United States puts the cart before the horse, and
the wrong cart at that. The Fenians were Catholics
because they were south-Irelanders ; and they ex-
pressly banned from their meetings all discussion
of religion or of American politics.
It is interesting, though not pertinent to this vol-
ume, to note that the United States government
looked with a mild eye on the Fenians' gestures of
hostility toward Canada, and even hired counsel
to defend sundry arrested Fenians - because it
was trying to force Great Britain to settle the Ala-
bama claims that grew out of the Civil War .
A number of physical battles between Catholics
and Protestants enlivened the otherwise dull period
- religiously speaking - from the Civil war to
the blooming of the A. P. A.
The bloodiest of these was a massacre of Irish
Catholics by New York militiamen in New York
City on July 12, 1871 . July 12 is, by virtue of a con-
fusion of old and new calendars, held to be the an-
niversary of the Battle of the Boyne, the great day
in Protestant Irish history . It was therefore the day
on which, in years past and wild, anything could
SKIRMISHES 181
happen in a community which harbored delegations
of both Orangemen and Hibernians. Generally
whatever did happen was by way of revenge for
what had occurred on the previous St . Patrick's
Day.
On this particular Boyne day, one hundred
Orangemen determined to conduct a parade in
New York City. Several thousand Catholic Irish-
men determined that no such dirty thing should
take place. The Orangemen paraded. They were
chaperoned by five companies of militia. In due
course - at Twenty-fourth Street and Eighth
Avenue -the parade was rushed by the Catholics.
The militia fired one volley . Fifty-one of the
attackers and three of the militiamen were shipped
to the burying grounds. What the good Lord, Who
was not consulted beforehand, thought of this
affair is not of human record .
This massacre took place one year to the day
after the Elm Park riot in New York City . Two
thousand five hundred Orangemen, their wives
and families, picnicked in Elm Park on Boyne day,
1870. Some weeks prior to the happy event, one
Florence Scannel had died. Scannel was a twenty-
three-year-old Democratic alderman, and he had
been shot in a drunken brawl . He died some months
later, and his funeral was brilliant enough to sat-
isfy the heart of a modern Chicago gangster . Alder-
men, city officials, even a judge or two, followed
182 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Florence to his final resting-place, and a glorious
time was enjoyed by all. The Catholics, of whom
he was one, swore revenge upon the Orangemen,
who were thought to have caused his death .
On Boyne day, then, six hundred Catholic Irish-
men rushed the two thousand five hundred Orange-
men at picnic in Elm Park . Several on both sides
were killed and many others wounded . Florence
Scannel was avenged . Harper's Weekly commented
editorially :
" The Democratic political managers govern the
City of New York by means of such rioters who
vote for such magistrates as Florence Scannel."
These fights were not religious in character or
motive ; they were echoes of Ireland's unending
internal strife . But they were meat for the haters of
Catholicity, as have been a hundred such clashes
before and since.
William Hale (" Big Bill ") Thompson, at this
writing mayor of Chicago, has at least one prece-
dent in American history for his campaign against
the teaching to school-children of any historical
fact that tends to dim the luster of America's puis-
sance.
The Catholics of Boston discovered, A.D . 1886,
that a footnote in Swinton's General History, then
used in the Boston public schools, mentioned the
Catholic church's medieval practice of selling
SKIRMISHES 183
indulgences as one cause of the Protestant Ref-
ormation.
Everybody knows that is true ; but a delegation
of pious Catholics visited the publishers of the
book and " persuaded " them to delete the foot-
note. A bitter political battle ensued, resulting in
the election of a Protestant school-board and the
triumphant restoration of the footnote - which
doubtless the publishers had cynically kept in type
against just such an eventuality .
A reasonably watertight analogy can be drawn
between the twentieth-century Ku Klux Klan of
highly Protestant complexion and the Molly Ma-
guires,l who flourished in the Pennsylvania anthra-
cite regions from 1854 to 1877, and all of whom
were Irish Catholics.
The modern Klan is intensely nativist-" Amer-
ica for Americans! " The Mollies' motto might as
well have been " Coal mine jobs for the Irish! "
Klan tactics here and there have included the use
of intimidation, blackmail, thuggery, boycott, and
other well-known means of extralegal suasion . The
Mollies carried the system to its logical develop-
' For most of the research on which this treatment of the Molly
Maguires is based, I am indebted to Mr. Harcourt Parrish, of New
York City . Mr. Parrish was to have collaborated in the production
of this book, but was forced by pressure of other business to aban-
don the project after completing his inquiries into the history of the
Molly Maguires. -Author.
184 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
ment by simply murdering any one against whom
a member filed a complaint with the body-master
of his lodge. The Klan has from time to time been
damned roundly by high prelates of the Methodist
and Baptist churches -from which it draws the
bulk of its membership -but many a rural and
small-town minister of these denominations has
been tracked to the local klavern. The Molly
Maguires were under the official ban of the Roman
Catholic church. While it is not certain that any
parish priests belonged, many of them approved
the order. Both orders were oath-bound, secret-
membership societies devoted to the aim of getting
everything possible in the way of jobs and prefer-
ments for themselves .
English, German and Welsh miners, mine bosses
and foremen were the objects of the Molly Ma-
guires' particular hatred . All these groups hap-
pened to be chiefly Protestant in creed, which made
them doubly hateful to the fire-eating Irish Catho-
lics who composed the Mollies ; but the primary
cause of Molly vengefulness and the scores of mur-
ders it produced was that the English, Welsh and
Germans were making off with the jobs which the
Irish considered their own by God's decree . One
achievement of the Mollies was the further exacer-
bation of anti-Catholic prejudice throughout the
country.
The order was organized in 1854, as an inner
SKIRMISHES 185
lodge of the Ancient Order of Hibernians. It stole
its name from a secret society that grew up in
County Monaghan, Ireland, beginning in 1843, and
having as its object the beating up of process-
servers and the tormenting of landlords . No con-
nection between the bands in Ireland and America
was ever discovered.
One of the Molly Maguires' early activities was
to wage a fight on enlistments and drafts in the
Civil War. This fact contributed its bit to the leg-
end that the Catholic church intrigued against the
Union during that conflict . The reason for it was
that the draft laws included the dynamite-laden
provision for purchase of a substitute by any
draftee who had $300, and that few Molly
Maguires had ever seen $300 . Their membership
in the Catholic church had nothing to do with their
earnest objection to being shot at while the Rotten
Rich stayed at home . The same consideration,
among others, threw frenzied Irishmen into the
bloody draft riots of 1863 in New York City, and
helped to win for that place its present reputation
among Catholic haters as a hopeless papal citadel
planted on American soil.
The campaign of secret murder in the coal fields
went on unchecked for years. At length, in 1873,
Franklin B . Gowen sent James McParlan into the
district next door to those bituminous fields which,
in the year of grace 192 7, the New York Daily
186 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
News called " hell in Pennsylvania " by reason of
the appalling strike going on there at the time .
McParlan was an Irish Catholic himself . He was
also a Pinkerton detective . Gowen was president
of the Philadelphia and Reading Coal and Iron
Company. McParlan's instructions were to " get "
the Molly Maguires if he could .
This man had been teamster, deck swab, coach-
man, policeman, and proprietor of a liquor store .
He knew the ways of such men as composed the
Molly Maguires.
The story of McParlan's worming into the inner
councils of the Shenandoah division of the Molly
Maguires, and his eventual bringing of nineteen
murderers to the gallows, would make glorious
reading if there were space for its inclusion here . So
would the doings of Jack Kehoe, Major Brothers,
Father O'Connor, Body-master James Kerrigan of
the Tamaqua division ; the killing of Policeman
Yost by McGehan, who said afterward : " I dislike
to draw Irish blood, but I want no better sport than
to shoot such men as Yost. When he was shot he
hollered like a panther " ; the stories circulated
about McParlan that he was a detective who could
" hang half the people in Schuylkill county," and
McParlan's dauntless demand to be tried on the
charge by a council of body-masters of the Molly
Maguires. . . .
The order died in 1877 under the bludgeonings
SKIRMISHES 1 87
of McParlan and the rope swinging of the courts .
McParlan himself lived long enough to play a lead-
ing part in the Idaho labor-and-capital drama of
Governor Steunenberg, Moyer, Haywood and
Pettibone.
Most of us have heard the catch-phrase " Rum,
Romanism and Rebellion ." It was the last century's
synonym of the " Jew, Jug and Jesuit " tag which
Klansmen strove to hang upon Oscar W . Under-
wood of Alabama in 1924. And " Rum, Romanism
and Rebellion " likewise played a part in interring
a man beneath the political sod, though in different
fashion.
The occasion of its coinage was the Presidential
campaign of 1884, when Grover Cleveland, Demo-
crat, won over James G. Blaine, Republican.
Blaine on a speaking tour received a bevy of Prot-
estant clergymen at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, New
York City. There was much billing and cooing and
shaking of hands, and the Rev. Dr. Samuel D. Bur-
chard delivered a welcoming address to the Repub-
lican candidate.
It was during the course of his remarks that
Burchard told what he thought of the Democratic
party, in toto . That party, in the estimation of
Burchard, had always been and was still the " party
of Rum, Romanism and Rebellion ."
Blaine did not hear the phrase when it was
188 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
uttered, or if he did he failed to make any repudi-
ation of it. Buchard's masterpiece echoed in the
New York newspaper offices in less time than it
takes to tell it, and sang over the wires even faster
than that. Before nightfall of the next day Blaine
was being credited the country over with having
himself made the quip, and Democratic politicians
were welcoming outraged Catholics into the fold
with the pleased obsequiousness of so many head-
waiters.
New York state was normally Republican . New
York's percentage of Catholic voters was then, as
now, very high. Blaine lost New York to Cleveland
by 1047 votes - and New York's defection lost
Blaine the Presidency.
CHAPTER XXIV
SCHOOL WARS
IN an acute chapter of his Our Times: America
Finding Herself, Mark Sullivan resurrects the for-
gotten fact that the Protestant churches are the
parents of the American public school system as it
exists, functions and blots up billions in taxes to-
day.
Whatever sect was most powerful in any given
part of the British colonies educated most of the
children of that section. The Church of England
taught the bulk of the little Southerners to read,
through its Society for the Propagation of the
Faith. The Puritan denomination conferred the
same boon on the children who were unlucky
enough to have been born in New England while
Calvinism held happiness under total eclipse .
It was only in the last days of the colonies and
the early years of the Republic that the state began
to take over the business of instructing the youth .
Whereas, nowadays, Catholics and Protestants
alike educate their children in the hope that they
will all own Pierce-Arrows and die wealthy, or that
they will enjoy the splendors of this world with the
I8g
I90 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
maximum of relish, the Protestants used to educate
them with an eye solely to their salvation in the
world to come. The Bible was the Word of God
delivered unto man ; any one unable to read the
Bible stood in grave danger of hellfire. Hence, all
the popular education there was, for generation
after generation, in the Protestant British colonies .
When the state began the taking over of public
mass education, the Roman Catholic church was
just commencing its long march to immensity and
power in this country. The clergy of that sect did
not welcome the state's invasion . They have never
since then been able to stomach the state as an
educator without gagging .
" The operation of the common school system,"
said Bishop (later Archbishop) Hughes of New
York in 1840, " as the same is now administered, is
a violation of our civil and religious rights ."
" The Church in our country is obliged, for the
sake of principle," declared the pastoral letter of
the archbishops and bishops of the United States,
assembled at Washington in September, 1919, un-
der the chairmanship of Cardinal Gibbons, " to
maintain a system of education distinct and separ-
ate from other systems. It is supported by the vol-
untary contributions of Catholics who, at the
same time, contribute as required by law to the
maintenance of the public schools ."
Education, to the hierarchy yesterday, today
SCHOOL WARS 191
and presumably forever, is a sacred prerogative of
the church, as it was to the Protestant clergymen
who really ruled this country of old time . The
fathers reason that character is a composite of
physical, intellectual and moral qualities, and that
it is the business of education to develop all these
faculties symmetrically . To handle the physical and
intellectual development of the children, the state
is adequately equipped, but only the home and the
church can nurture the frail flower of morality to
sturdy maturity - thus reasons the priesthood .
One looks about, beholds the goodly number of
one's Catholic friends and acquaintances who are
not sending their children to the parochial schools,
and conceives a doubt that the Catholic laity is as
hot for churchly education of its offspring as its
clerics wish it were .
Two subjects for red-hot debate naturally flow
from the two theories of Church education and
State education .
One is whether or not Catholics should be taxed
for the support of the public schools ; and, if they
are to be so taxed, whether or not the parochial
schools ought to come in for a share of that money.
The orthodox, though by no means unanimous
Catholic answer to the questions, of course, is that
Catholics should not be taxed for public school sup-
port in the first place, but that since they are so
taxed their schools should share in the levies . The
192 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Protestant answer, as embodied in the constitutions
of forty states,' is that every taxpayer, regardless
of creed, shall chip in to support the common
schools and that state funds shall not go to any
sectarian schools whatever .
The other line of cleavage between the two edu-
cational theories runs along the character of
religious or moral instruction which may legiti-
mately be given in an elementary school . The Cath-
olics object to the reading of the King James ver-
sion of the Bible, or any other Protestant version,
within earshot of Catholic school-children . Prot-
estants as vigorously oppose the Catholic version .
Debates have been many and heated .
Catholicism's position was carried out to the ulti-
mate limit of beauteous absurdity in 187o by the
Rev. Father Thomas Preston, of St . Ann's Roman
Catholic church, New York City. Father Preston
blandly told a Protestant audience that (a) a pub-
lic school where the Bible is read, even without
comment, must necessarily inculcate some form of
religious belief in the children, while (b) " if they
taught no religion whatever, and were studiously
to avoid the name of God or of Jesus Christ our
Redeemer, they would in our sense be sectarian,
1 Exceptions: Arkansas, Iowa, Maine, Maryland, North Carolina,
Rhode Island, Vermont, and West Virginia ; also the District of
Columbia. (Courtesy of United States Bureau of Education, Wash-
ington, D . C.)
SCHOOL WARS 193
for they would teach immorality, and so sap the
foundations of our creed."
Thus the two great school issues which have
agitated Christians in the United States . Honors in
the conflict were even at the time of going to press,
with the financial victory perched on the banners
of Protestantism .
Yet, eager as Catholic clergymen have chroni-
cally been to lay hands on the public school funds,
the question of any religious sect's right so to do
was first decided by a state, so far as we have been
able to learn, as a consequence of an overt act by a
Protestant church.
In 1805, the legislature of New York incorpo-
rated the Public School Society of the State of New
York. Its duty was " to educate poor children in a
free school, who do not belong to, or who are not
provided for, by any religious society." By this act,
all sectarian schools were expressly cut off from the
charity-school funds.
The society's name was changed in 18o8 to that
of the Free School Society of New York, while its
powers were enlarged to allow it " to extend a free
education to all children who are the subjects of
gratuitous education ."
In 1813, permission was granted for funds to be
paid to " incorporated religious societies " which
then or thereafter supported charity schools in New
194 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
York. Any religious society, it is to be noted, could
obtain money on application to the Free School
Society by showing that it did maintain or had or-
ganized a charity school.
For fully nine years after the passage of this law,
all the sects confined themselves to strict observ-
ance of the same . That they forbore to overstep its
limitations for that length of time is a testimonial
to the self-control of the godly in those days - if it
is not a witness to their timidity .
But in 1822 the inevitable happened. A too ami-
able legislature handed Bethel Baptist church of
New York City a dipping from the Free School So-
ciety's surplus funds for the building of a school for
poor children, said school to be operated by the
church, not for the maintenance or enlargement of
a school already built . It was a plain case of state
subsidy of a church enterprise, and heaven alone
knew to what it might lead . The consequent up-
roar was doubly tremendous, since it was pumped
up not only by public leaders but by dominies of
other churches which had not been so forehanded
in the legislative halls as had Bethel Baptist .
The New York legislature presently repealed the
law of 1813 which gave churches a call on free-
school funds.
Control of the public schools of New York City
then passed into the hands of a new body known as
the Public School Society . Theoretically this group
SCHOOL WARS 195
administered the schools and the school funds in
the interest of the whole public. Actually its mem-
bers were all Protestant for many years. Protestant
doctrines were drilled into the public-school pupils'
heads, Protestant history was taught them, and
every possible measure was taken for their protec-
tion against the ever multiplying papists of New
York City.
All this led to Bishop Hughes's attack on the
Public School Society in 1840, the first organized
American Catholic drive toward the sequestration
of a share of public tax monies for Catholic schools .
The story of that fight is told in more detail in an
earlier chapter (" A Catholic Political Party "),
but brief mention of one or two of its incidents will
not be amiss here.
Said the bishop, in addition to his dictum quoted
earlier in the present chapter, " If they [the public
schools] do not exclude sectarianism, they are no
more entitled to the school funds than your pe-
titioners or any other denomination of professing
Christians ; if they do exclude sectarianism, then
your petitioners contend that they exclude Christi-
anity."
The Public School Society offered to expunge
from the school and library books all matter of-
fensive to Catholics, and to try to persuade the
teachers to say no word which might wound Cath-
olic sensibilities. That was not enough for Hughes.
196 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
In exchange for placing the parochial schools
under the Public School Society's control, he de-
manded a veto power for the Catholics in the selec-
tion of textbooks and the appointment of teachers
- which obviously meant that Hughes wanted to
give nothing for the money.
Said the committee of the City Council, throwing
up its hands at the end of the bitter fight, " The un-
willingness of the petitioners [Catholics] to agree
to any terms which did not recognize the distinc-
tive character of their schools, or which would ex-
clude sectarian supervision from them entirely, was
the obstacle to compromise which could not be
overcome."
New York City's schools remained non-sectarian
in theory and Protestant in fact. At the present
time (1928) complaints are almost never heard of
improper sectarian influences at work in the New
York schools. When a teacher is ousted nowadays,
it is usually on grounds of undue flirtation with Bol-
shevism or the doctrines of judge Ben B . Lindsey.
Nothing further of serious moment occurred in
the New York school fight until the year 1869 . At
that time, " Boss " Tweed and his Ring, of death-
less fame, were ruling the city and gutting the pub-
lic money chests.
A scantily written about, practically forgotten
piece of Tweed scandal which awaits the patient
searcher of records is Tweed's bid for clerical sup-
SCHOOL WARS 197
port, and particularly Catholic clerical support,
with public school funds.
The Ring first tried to buy up the clergy by in-
troducing in the legislature of 1869 a bill whose
first section read as follows :
"Whenever there shall be, or has been estab-
lished or maintained, in any city of this State, any
free school or schools, in which not less than 200
children have been or are taught and educated
gratuitously, it shall be the duty of such city, or of
the Board of Supervisors of the county of which
such city is a whole or a part, to make provision
from year to year for the expenses of such school or
schools."
Had this law passed the legislature, every de-
nominational free school of any size in New York
would instantly have landed on all fours in the pub-
lic treasury with mouth unmuzzled . No one was
deceived as to Tweed's intentions in proposing the
law, and after a vicious fight the bill was defeated .
But a legislative setback never yet daunted a
New York City politician bent on helping his old
friends or buying new ones . Tweed proceeded to dip
into the city revenues for the salving of the de-
nominational schools . He turned the trick by
means of a special clause inserted in the city tax
levy of 1869.
198 THE WARs OF THE GODLY
" The result is," bawled a Harper's Weekly edi-
torial in the following year, " that $2114,987 have
been taken from the city money and given to 53
sectarian schools . Of this sum 2 5 Roman Catholic
schools receive $1153,880, and 28 Protestant schools
receive $611,1107."
The Weekly was as bitterly anti-Catholic in
those times as it was anti-Tammany and anti-
Tweed. It went on to say of the Tweed clerical
subsidy :
" The words of the clause authorizing the sec-
tarian distribution imply that the provision is made
for children whom the public schools cannot re-
ceive. But careful investigation shows that proper
care would even now make room for all children,
while it is notorious that this grant of money for
special sectarian schools is part of the plan of the
Roman Catholic ecclesiastics to break down the
system of public schools in the State ."
Discount the Weekly's anti-papal bias. Grant
that it is not of record that any Protestant minis-
ter roared for Tweed's blood on account of this sec-
tarian steal, or refused the money for any schools
under his wing. The fact stands that there was
much more than a scintilla of truth in the last state-
ment quoted above from the Harper's Weekly
editorial.
By per of Harper $
FOUR LEADERS OF THE A. P. A.
(Top, left to right) HENRY F. BOWERS, Founder and First Supreme
President; OCEOLA B. JACKMAN, Supreme Secretary of State
(Bottom, left to right) E. H . DUNBAR, Supreme Sergeant at Arms ; DR.
J. F. FRYAR, Superior President
SCHOOL WARS 199
What evidence remains printed on dry and
crackling pages out of those years goes to show that
the Catholic priesthood hoped more boldly and
schemed more ambitiously to win state support for
parochial schools during the seventies than in any
other period of our history .
Father Thomas Preston used his rare logical
gifts in a campaign for state aid from the pulpit
and rectory of St. Ann's church, New York. Father
I. T. Hecker bawled for it in his Catholic World
(New York) . Other priestly roars resounded from
Cleveland, Michigan, St . Louis.
Doubtless the chief force behind this aggressive-
ness on the part of the clergy was the Ecumenical
Council of the Roman Catholic church which was
held at Rome in 1870. There the Ultramontane fac-
tion of the church had railroaded the doctrine of
papal infallibility into the body of Catholic dogma,
over the writhing cadaver of a last-ditch opposi-
tion. Catholicism, though its knees shook, at least
knew where it was supposed to stand ; i.e., on the
rock of the Pope's infallibility when speaking ex
cathedra on any doctrine touching faith or moral-
ity. Then, as now, the hierarchy took the an-
nounced dogmas of the church far more literally
than did the laity, and not a few bright-eyed bish-
ops and monsignori talked and wrote as if they in-
tended_ to conquer Protestantism and the American
State.
200 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
The net result was one to make the Puritan and
Episcopal czars of ancient days turn over in their
graves. James G. Blaine proposed to amend the
first clause of the Federal Constitution's first
amendment to read as follows:
" No state shall make any law respecting the
establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free
exercise thereof; and no money raised by school
taxation in any state, for the support of public
schools, or derived from any public land therefor,
nor any public lands devoted thereto, shall ever be
under the control of any religious sect ; nor shall
any money so raised, or land so devoted, be divided
among religious sects or denominations ."
Blaine introduced the amendment by way of
echo to a remark of President Ulysses S . Grant in
his message to Congress in 1875 . Grant cautiously
acknowledged that such an amendment might be
desirable, without going into entangling details as
to why he thought so ..
To Grant the Catholic Review made this star-
tling answer:
" We seek no contest, but one will be forced upon
us ; we warn our fellow Catholics that this is cer-
tain to come, and we retort upon the instigator of
this new internecine war, that the Catholics of the
United States will ` fight it out on that line if it
SCHOOL WARS 2 01
takes,' not one season, but another century of our
beloved country's existence." (Quoted from an
apparently accurate, as to facts, anti-Catholic arti-
cle in Harper's Weekly for January 1, 1876.)
Yet the situation was possibly not so alarming
from a patriot's point of view as the Pope's haters
supposed. A Catholic layman, annoyed by the ac-
cusations of popish plots, dropped a line to Har-
per's Weekly in the year of Blaine's agitation for
the amendment above quoted . This gentleman said
that nine out of ten Catholics had no respect what-
ever for the clergy's judgment in regard to the
schools and did not want the state to contribute to
the support of the parochial schools .
What Protestants thought of the clerical drive
on the school funds was best summarized in a car-
toon by Thomas Nast which appeared early in the
seventies. The picture was a three-deck affair . Its
topmost level exhibited a ring of little Americans,
Chinese, Jews, Scots and negroes dancing in front
of a public school. Their happy childish voices were
caroling -as who has not heard them do at re-
cess? - " No Sect! No Caste ! Free to All ! "
Deck number two depicted several villainous-
looking priests of Rome running away with sack-
fuls of tax money, while a starved public school
principal peered wistfully into his wilted money-
bags.
202 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
The bottom tier of Nast's cartoon showed what
might be expected should the state go in for sup-
porting sectarian schools. Schools bearing the signs
Methodist, Episcopal, Low Church, High Church,
Jewish, Catholic, African and Chinese were mar-
shaled side by side along a city street. In the fore-
ground a little colored boy was pulling a Chinese
lad's pigtail, while a Cro-Magnon child with a
rosary slung from one arm and a Douai Bible
squeezed under the other was brandishing a shilla-
lah in the face of a little Jew.
Blaine's proposed amendment kicked around
Congress for years. In i888, it was stated by Sena-
tor Blair that the amendment had been killed by
the machinations of the Jesuits, details of the
slaughter not given. Our fathers were wiser in the
handling of this question than were we in answer-
ing the liquor question : they left the matter to the
states to decide . The result is that forty states now
bar sectarian schools by constitutional enactment
from participation in public funds.
Compromises were arranged here and there, as
at Poughkeepsie, New York, in 1873, and at Fari-
bault, Minnesota, in 1891 . The Faribault plan,
worked out chiefly by the late Archbishop Ireland,
achieved considerable fame and was adopted in a
number of cities of the West and Middle West .
In all these instances, the financial concessions
consistently came from the Protestant side . The
school-boards of the towns rented the Catholic
SCHOOL WARS 203
school buildings at a nominal sum, and dubbed
them public schools . Catholic religious instruction
went right on, imparted by the same teachers,
while the school-boards paid the teachers and kept
the buildings in order. At Faribault, the Protes-
tants scored a victory in that religious instruction
was scheduled outside school hours .
When the A.P.A. was at the height of its power,
in 1893, the Independent queried twenty-nine
Roman Catholic D.D .'s of the greatest eminence,
beginning with Archbishop Ireland, on the subject
of the schools. The question put to each was
whether he would at that time sanction a movement
for a division of school funds.
Twenty-five of the prelates answered " No,"
with varying words of qualification which indicate
to a lay mind that the good doctors wished to pre-
serve for themselves the well-known " out " in
case of a sudden shift in the political or educational
wind. Four answered " Yes," with analogous nega-
tives pregnant subjoined.
The four die-hards were Bishops Durier, Haid,
Ludden and Verdaquer . Some of the most prom-
inent recanters were Archbishops Ireland, Katzer,
J. J. Keane, Bourgade and Janssen, and Bishops
McQuaid and Horstmann .
Possibly the most acute piece of political rhetoric
ever uttered on the public school fund issue was
given voice by Theodore Roosevelt in a speech at
Boston in 1893 . We reproduce the gem below, and
204 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
commend it to the earnest study of any politician
who wishes to become proficient in the art of feign-
ing a fight with everybody but in reality tickling
everybody's most precious prejudice.
" Because [said Roosevelt] we are unqualifiedly
and without reservation against any system of de-
nominational schools, maintained by the adherents
of any creed with the help of state aid, therefore
we as strenuously insist that the public schools
shall be free from sectarian influences, and, above
all, free from any attitude of hostility to the ad-
herents of any particular creed ; and we denounce
as the worst foes of the public schools those who,
under the pretense of friendship for them, stir up
hostility toward them by seeking to discriminate
in their name against those people who hold a given
religious belief.
" Exactly as we welcome to them alike the chil-
dren of Jew and Gentile, of Catholic and Protes-
tant, so we insist that in their management no one
creed shall have any special jurisdiction, but the
professors of all creeds be treated alike, in order
that every American citizen, without regard to
what his own private religious belief may be, shall
feel that he has an equal voice therein ."
New York's supreme court declared the Pough-
keepsie scheme unconstitutional in 19or. A few
towns here and there operate under the Faribault
SCHOOL WARS 205
system, but the school fight is about at an end to
all appearances at the time this is written .
The Protestants have won the fight over the
money; the Catholics have seen a principle carried
to victory. " As the result of the joint campaign,
waged by papists and Jews against the Word of
God," to use the forceful language of one anti-
Catholic writer, Bible-reading in the public schools
has been forbidden or made optional in thirty-
seven states. It is required only in Alabama, Geor-
gia, Delaware, Indiana, Kentucky, Maine, New
Jersey, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, and
Tennessee.
There the matter bids fair to stand - though in
religious conflict nothing is certain - for decades
to come, let the Klan rave as it may about the ap-
palling number of public school teachers who pro-
fess the Roman Catholic religion, let the Catholic
clerics raise as may please them the ancient shriek
of " Taxation without representation ! "
The United States Supreme Court put the Ore-
gon school law to the sword a couple of years after
its passage. From that time to this the anti-Cath-
olics have done little of a specific nature toward
removing the alleged cancer of parochialism from
the body politic, though their howlers have de-
livered the customary yardage of magniloquence
anent the Little Red Schoolhouse and the menaced
minds of our precious children .
CHAPTER XXV
THE BRAVE DAYS OF OLD
THE writer's father, Mr . H. Lowndes Maury of
Butte, Montana, has been good enough to commit
to paper the eyewitness story which constitutes this
volume's opening chapter on what was unquestion-
ably the gaudiest, brassiest and most picturesque
anti-Catholic movement in the nation's history.
Mr. Maury's narrative concerns a series of glori-
ous free-for-ails staged by Protestants and Cath-
olics at Butte on the 119th birthday of the inde-
pendence of the United States as a land of freedom
for all, religious freedom being included by express
stipulation of the Federal Constitution .
The story follows :
On the morning of July 4, 1894, I was sitting at
the window of the office where I worked as a law
clerk, at 17 West Broadway, Butte. I had come to
Butte some three weeks before from Charlottes-
ville, Virginia ; had never heard of the American
Protective Association . Across the street were the
Columbia saloon, and a saloon known as Tommy
& Teddy's Place .
206
THE BRAVE DAYS OF OLD 207
A crowd of twenty-five or thirty young Irish-
men came up the street. Some of them were under
the influence of liquor and some were not. One
pointed at some American flags draped to form the
letters A.P.A. over the saloons above-mentioned .
They stood muttering for some moments.
Suddenly another crowd of men rushed from the
Columbia saloon and a general fight commenced,
all kinds of weapons being brought into play. One
man from the saloon had what I then called, in
Virginian parlance, a " horse pistol," though I soon
learned to call it a gun. It was a long-barreled
pistol.
This man picked out a large Irishman, who had
a rock in a sock as his weapon. He shot the Irish-
man from a distance of four or five feet, striking
him on the forehead . When the Irishman fell I
thought he was dead. It developed later that the
bullet had glanced and struck another man in the
groin. The man whose forehead had been hit was
up and fighting again in two or three minutes, while
the man with the groin wound died some ten days
later.
The crowd increased for about an hour . I do not
recall any police interference . The police force of
the city were chiefly Irishmen, as was Mayor E . O.
Duggan. The county sheriff, S . J. Reynolds, sympa-
thized with the other faction, though I do not be-
lieve he was ever a member of the A.P.A.
208 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
An enormous crowd of Catholics had gathered
by noon in front of the Columbia saloon, and there
were cries from them that they would tear down
the flags. These men were perfectly fearless, and
were organized for attack on the building . But as
they moved to storm the Columbia, two deputy
sheriffs appeared from within and showed their
badges . Several of the crowd attempted to enter the
saloon, but the deputies repulsed them without fir-
ing any shots . The crowd showed, in spite of its
anger, a willingness to obey constituted authority .
The street in this block was crowded with men until
about three in the afternoon .
Another saloon in the same block, called the
Sazerac, also displayed the American flag draped
to form the letters A.P.A. I was standing in the
crowd in front of this saloon about three P .M. that
day when one " Cap " Lyons, a local character - I
think he was neither A .P .A . nor Catholic, but
simply crazed by the general excitement - ran up
to the Sazerac and fired six revolver shots through
the front window.
The men inside returned Lyons's fire, with rifles
as I learned afterward . The bullet-holes in the
building across the street were numerous enough,
and remained visible for many years, but, strange
to say, no one inside this building was hit . Lyons
was known to be half crazy, so that when he com-
menced firing the crowd scattered as fast as it
THE BRAvE DAYS OF OLD 209
could. Having emptied his pistol, Lyons himself
took to his heels .
Another half-hour, and the crowd had massed
once more before the Sazerac saloon . One Daly,
evidently a Catholic, drew a revolver and started
for the flag-draped saloon, saying in dramatic fash-
ion, " I will tear them down or bite the dust." As
the words left his mouth, a man in front of the
saloon said, " Bite the dust "-and shot him twice
in the region of the heart . Daly died almost
instantly.
John J. McHatton, a devout Catholic and dis-
trict judge, now entered the Sazerac by the back
door. With the owners' permission, he stood up in a
second-story window and addressed the crowd . As
the highest officer of the law in the county, he
earnestly asked them to disperse, out of respect for
property rights and regard for their own personal
safety, whether they were A .P.A.'s or Catholics.
This speech had no effect on any of us . Some
stayed from curiosity, as I did, and some stayed
to fight and argue .
About four o'clock in the afternoon the mayor
ordered out the fire department, which played hoses
on the crowd and soon scattered it .
Fist fights were going on throughout the city of
Butte that day from ten in the morning to three-
thirty P .M. There was fighting of every variety that
night in the Butte saloons . Men at that time
210 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
outnumbered women in Butte by at least two to
one.
In the Pine Tree saloon a Cornishman was
trampled to death. In another saloon a man in no
way connected, so far as could be learned, with
either faction was shot. The bullet lodged in the
heart ; I was informed, in the aorta . To the aston-
ishment of medical men, he lived seven and one-
half days ; or at least so the press reported.
No prosecutions were ever instituted against any
of the rioters.
Many people who were not Catholics were sup-
posed by the Catholics to be members of the A.P.A.
The organization's membership was thought to be
much larger than it actually was . It was said on
reliable authority, after the society became mori-
bund, that in Butte, a town then of 35,000 people,
there were never more than 300 A.P.A.'s.
In the West of those days fraternal lines were
not drawn so tightly as they are now . The head of
the firm for which I worked, then Montana's lead-
ing law firm, was a devoted Freemason and like-
wise a devout Roman Catholic .
The A.P.A. chapter in Butte was composed
chiefly of men born outside the United States .
Some were from Canada, some from Cornwall, some
from Wales. The bitterness between the organ-
ization known as the Sons of St . George' and the
1 A national fraternal order composed of men of English birth
or descent . Membership (1928) 50,000.
THE BRAVE DAYS OF OLD 211
Irish Catholics was almost as intense as was that
between the A .P.A. and the Irish Catholics . This
fact was always a fair indication to me of what
nationality probably made up the bulk of the
local A.P.A.
" I was never in any way identified or allied with
either faction," Mr . Maury wrote later ; and, by
way of reflective postscript : " The hatred engen-
dered by that day's work was from ten to twenty
years in dying out ."
CHAPTER XXVI
HoW THE A .P.A. BEGAN
THUS did Americans buffet one another in the
name of religion when Bryanism was flowering in
Nebraska and Cleveland sat in the White House
striving to massage away the black eye which the
panic of 1893 had given his administration.
The Butte incident is no lone and isolated case
picked out of those times to point a moral . Such
things were going on all over the northern and
western states -for be it noted that A .P.A'ism
gained scarce a foothold in the South .
Stores and offices were closing in Saginaw,
Michigan, because Catholics and Protestants were
boycotting one another. J. K . Gosper told the
Unity club of Los Angeles, at a banquet in that
year, that he knew five hundred stand of arms were
at that moment stacked under the Roman Catholic
cathedral ; whereupon uprose D. F. Donegan, con-
tractor, and exhibited a $i,ooo-bill which he as-
serted could be heard calling Gosper a liar .
Ex-priest Slattery precipitated a bloody riot at
Keokuk, Iowa. Bishop McNamara, of a pocket
cult owned by himself and Ann O'Delia Dis Debar,
brought on a similar uproar at Kansas City.
212
HoW THE A.P.A. BEGAN 213
But all these events took place when the order
was six years old. What of its birth and infancy?
Henry F. Bowers founded the American Protec-
tive Association on March 13, 1887, at Clinton,
Iowa. Bowers at the time was sixty years of age
and a respected member of the Clinton bar. He
seems to have been a worthy sort personally, ob-
sessed with a strong but not violent dislike of the
Roman Catholic church . Certainly if length of days
is any index to character, Bowers qualified as
among earth's noblest : born in 182 7, he lived into
the year 1911.
He was, of course, the Association's first supreme
president. This office he held until the A.P.A.'s
blossom-time in 1894-96, when he was succeeded
by W. J. H. Traynor of Detroit. In 1898, when the
A.P.A. was well on the way toward becoming
but a memory, Bowers was re-elected to his old
post by his crumbling legions, and held it until
he died.
Almost nothing in the way of active proselyting
was done by the Bowers fraternity during its first
six years. Yet by 1893 it had 70,000 members.
Most of its chapters -or councils, as they were
technically called - were in towns of the northern
Mississippi valley. It was organized in twenty
states by the early part of 1893, and the Catholics
were beginning to grumble about the " new Know-
Nothingism," while the press customarily referred
214 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
to the northern territory from Ohio to Nebraska as
the " A.P.A. belt."
These facts constitute a splendid business index
for any salesman of hate who wishes to know how
large a potential market exists for him in the Mid-
dle West, and to gauge the probable amount of ad-
vertising he will have to do in order to win a
modest degree of success . Bowers rounded up his
first 70,000 by little more than a word-of-mouth
campaign.
One principle, and no more, marked off the
A.P.A. from the Native Americans, the Know-
Nothings and the twentieth-century Ku Klux Klan .
This was that native-born Americans were not the
only people who could qualify for membership in
the order.
Foreigners were admitted without question, so
long as they possessed the qualities of " good
Americans," which by the A.P.A. were held to con-
sist chiefly of hate for anything Roman Catholic,
plus sound sentiments on immigration . Thus -
facts to make the present-day Ku Kluxer sweat
with shame for his immediate spiritual forebears -
the Germans and Norwegians ran the A .P.A. coun-
cil in Milwaukee, the Swedes in Minneapolis, the
Anglo-Canadians in southeast Michigan .
Bowers, or whoever wrote the A .P.A. oath, was
not the master of English that was Judson, or who-
ever wrote the oath of the Know-Nothings. Nor
HOW THE A.P.A. BEGAN 215
did he possess the rhetoric of him who wove the
vocal ties that bind the Klansmen of today . But to
the connoisseur of hatreds expressed in neo-formal
language, the A.P.A. oath is of interest.
Follows Oath Number 4 of the A.P.A., as pub-
lished by the St. Paul Globe in its exposure of the
order, and also as read into the Congressional Rec-
ord of October 31, 1893, when H. M. Youmans was
battling to unseat William S. Linton, A.P.A. Con-
gressman from Michigan.
" I do most solemnly promise and swear that I
will always, to the utmost of my ability, labor,
plead and wage a continuous warfare against ignor-
ance and fanaticism ; that I will use my utmost
power to strike the shackles and chains of blind
obedience to the Roman Catholic church from the
hampered and bound consciences of a priest-ridden
and church-oppressed people ; that I will never
allow any one, a member of the Roman Catholic
church, to become a member of this order, I know-
ing him to be such ; that I will use my influence to
promote the interest of all Protestants everywhere
in the world that I may be ; that I will not employ
a Roman Catholic in any capacity if I can procure
the services of a Protestant.
" I furthermore promise and swear that I will not
aid in building or maintaining, by my resources, any
Roman Catholic church or institution of their sect
216 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
or creed whatsoever, but will do all in my power to
retard and break down the power of the Pope, in
this country or any other ; that I will not enter into
any controversy with a Roman Catholic upon the
subject of this order, nor will I enter into any agree-
ment with a Roman Catholic to strike or create a
disturbance whereby the Catholic employes may
undermine and substitute their Protestant co-
workers; that in all grievances I will seek only
Protestants and counsel with them to the exclusion
of all Roman Catholics, and will not make known
to them anything of any nature matured at such
conferences.
" I furthermore promise and swear that I will
not countenance the nomination, in any caucus or
convention, of a Roman Catholic for any office in
the gift of the American people, and that I will not
vote for, or counsel others to vote for, any Roman
Catholic, but will vote only for a Protestant, so far
as may lie in my power. Should there be two Roman
Catholics on opposite tickets, I will erase the name
of the ticket I vote ; that I will at all times,
endeavor to place the political positions of this
government in the hands of Protestants, to the
entire exclusion of the Roman Catholic church,
of the members thereof, and the mandate of the
Pope.
" To all of which I do most solemnly promise and
swear, so help me God. Amen, amen, amen ."
HOW THE A.P.A. BEGAN 217
The principles which guided these patriots were
the usual nativist dogmas. As promulgated by the
Supreme Council of the American Protective Asso-
ciation of the World, held at Des Moines in 1894,
they were twelve in number . This codification was
simply an ordered arrangement of the beliefs and
aims which had guided the fraternity from its birth .
Loyalty to " true Americanism " led all the rest,
followed in lockstep by a denial that the A .P.A. was
politically partisan in any respect . Next came a
denunciation of any ecclesiastical power that ac-
knowledged an overlord higher than the United
States government. The constitution of the United
States was then conceded to guarantee religious
liberty, but such liberty was construed as not in-
cluding the right in any ecclesiastical power of
" absolute control over the education of children
growing up under the Stars and Stripes ."
Catholic teachers in the public schools were put
under the order's official ban by Principle 5, and
so were Catholics as members of school-boards.
The customary blast against use of public monies
for sectarian schools followed . Church property
was to be taxed like any other realty or personalty
if the A.P.A. should have its way .
No one not a citizen was to be allowed to enlist
in army, navy or militia - a proposal, says the
historian Humphrey J. Desmond, which " was
cheerfully waived when, in 1898, war was declared
218 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
against Spain." Immigration was to be restricted
and the naturalization period lengthened to seven
years. The courts were to be told that they must be
less free and easy about admitting applicants to
citizenship. Lastly, all hospitals, charitable institu-
tions and convents were to be thrown open to state
inspection.
Thus the professions and aspirations of the or-
der which the Rev. Father J. J. Tighe tastefully
called, in his book on the A.P.A., "that hydra-
headed monster, this secret, fractious, licentious
and hell-founded organization which seeks to strike
the baneful roots of its confederacy into the heart
of this Republic."'
Among the thirteen minor anti-Catholic and na-
tivist orders formed between 1872 and 1895 -
which the A.P.A. absorbed-were the Order of
the American Union, the Templars of Liberty, the
National Order of Videttes, and the Crescents .
1 Father Tighe's book was published in New York City, 1894, by
D. P. Murphy, Jr . We offer its full title here, as a fair sample of the
blather in which both sides indulged during the A.P.A. excitement .
The book was called :
The A .P.A. - Its Origin and Growth -Its Principles - Its Meth-
ods-Causes of its Extension - To What Extent Catholics Have
Contributed to the A .P.A. Uprising . The A .P.A . and the School Agi-
tation - the A.P.A. and the Liberal Catholic Party - the A.P.A.
and the Catholic Claim to Religious Liberty in the United States .
The A.P.A. Stone Catholic Procession -the A .P.A. Charge Catholics
With Murder! They Extinguish Electric Light in Public Hall, to
Incite Riot and Create Panic. Narrative Founded on Personal Ex-
perience and Observation East and West.
HOW THE A.P.A. BEGAN 219
The A.P.A. itself, as a consequence of the East
Boston riot in 1895, gave birth to a child, which
took the highly nativist and anti-papal name of
the Order of the Little Red School House.
What gave the A.P.A. so horrible a mien in the
eyes of good Catholics? Its principles and preten-
sions, at the beginning, were identical with those of
the National League for the Protection of American
Institutions . Yet the latter order, founded at Sara-
toga, New York, in 1889 by James M. King, John
Jay III and others, never drew from the Catholics
any blast more withering than an occasional sneer
of " Bigotry! " or snarl of " Misguided heretics! "
tossed out of the corner of the mouth .
CHAPTER XXVII
SATOLLI ; CORE ; PANIC ; PAGEANT ; FORGERY
CREDIT for the A.P.A.'s sudden burst into na-
tional eminence and million-headed membership
after six years of insignificance goes in about equal
measure to the items listed in the title. A sixth fac-
tor was of considerable importance - another
flareup in the long fight over the schools .
Satolli's full name and title were His Excellency,
Francis Archbishop Satolli, titular of Lepanto,
sometime papal commissioner to the Chicago
World's Fair of 1893, and first apostolic delegate
to the United States. He later became a cardinal .
This prelate's first visit to the United States oc-
curred in 1892 . The Catholics had lately won some
local victories in their drive to put parochial schools
on a fiscal par with public schools, notably at Fari-
bault, Minnesota, and Poughkeepsie, New York .
But the Rev. Father Thomas Bouquillon, a pro-
fessor at the Catholic University, Washington, had
stirred up a fight in the hierarchy by his pamphlet
Education : To Whom Does It Belong? Bouquillon
had flown in the face of most Catholic priestly edu-
cational philosophy by declaring :
220
P. & .4. Photo.
WILLIAM, CARDINAL O'CONNELL, ARCHBISHOP OF BOSTON
SATOLLI; CORE; PANIS ; PAGEANT ; FORGERY 221
"Education belongs to men taken individually
and collectively in legitimate association, to the
family, to the state, to the church, to all four to-
gether, and not to any one of these four factors
separately."
A furious debate ensued, of such import as to
necessitate a council of archbishops at New York
City in the following year, 1892 . Monsignor Satolli
(he was but a monsignor at that time) was asked to
advise the agitated clerics .
Satolli cast into fourteen formal propositions
what he considered the proper attitude for his
church to take in matters educational, and sub-
mitted the document to the archbishops . Nothing
came of that. The battle was not resolved until
Pope Leo XIII, using Cardinal Gibbons as mouth-
piece, in 1893 peremptorily ordered the church in
America to look to the decrees of its third plenary
Baltimore council for guidance on the subject and
nowhere else.
But Satolli returned to the United States as
apostolic delegate in 1893, and set up offices at
Washington like any ambassador . He proceeded to
deliver numerous lectures in all the principal
American cities ; nor did the well-meaning prelate,
fresh from Italy, fail to tell Americans precisely
how they ought to conduct themselves under nu-
merous and varied circumstances .
222 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
No wild applause cheered to the echo these ad-
dresses by the delegate . Americans have never
craved advice from outsiders. This time the out-
sider happened also to be a Roman Catholic prel-
ate, and the reaction was strong. Yet Satolli was
not mobbed, nor was his life conspired against as
had been Bedini's forty years before him . He sim-
ply made himself unpopular and increased the
nativist distrust of his denomination .
The ranking plumed knight in the paper fight
on Satolli was the Rt . Rev. A . Cleveland Coxe,
Protestant Episcopal bishop of western New York .
Dr. Coxe was at this time an aged man, and, if his
photographs prove anything, a very pompous and
opinionated one. Probably he dreamed of dupli-
cating the rhetorical triumphs of Bishop Hopkins
of Vermont, whose controversial genius was in
flower when Coxe was a young clergyman. At any
rate, the bishop addressed a series of open letters to
Satolli, in which he insulted the apostolic delegate
as thoroughly as possible and said as little of a con-
crete nature as could well have been drawn out to
35,000 words of abuse. The A.P.A. seized on Coxe's
outpourings with great glee, and the American Citi-
zen Publishing Company of Boston issued them in
a book which ran through several editions .
Another influence that drove its tens of thou-
sands into the A.P.A . was the panic of 1893 . Grover
Cleveland had beaten Benjamin Harrison to the
SATOLLI ; CORE ; PANTS ; PAGEANT ; FORGERY 2 2 3
Presidency in 1892, and immediately thereafter
times had gone to the bad . Strikes crippled indus-
tries and railroads, money froze in the banks,
breadlines festooned the cities like drab necklaces
of woe, there were no jobs for the underdog .
The nation blamed Cleveland, as it would have
blamed any President ensconced in the White
House at the time though his virtues outshone those
of Washington, Lincoln and Jefferson combined.
Many a Republican who had voted the Demo-
cratic ticket saw red, mistook the A .P.A.'s numer-
ous municipal victories for signs of approaching
national power, and rushed into the A.P.A. So did
many a Democrat . All of them wanted to have a
finger-hold on the biggest available club wherewith
to brain the Cleveland administration when next
the chance should offer .
Catholicity itself had no little to do with the sud-
den blooming of the A .P.A. out of weedhood into
red and purple inflorescence .
The year 1892 was the four hundredth anni-
versary of America's discovery by Christopher Co-
lumbus. What more appropriate than that Cathol-
icity all over the land should celebrate - even
though base libels were already in circulation to
the effect that Columbus was no Catholic but a
Genoese Jew? Catholicity did celebrate. Parochial
schools and Catholic societies paraded and corner-
stoned and dedicated with an industry scarce par-
224 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
alleled in American history . Catholic laymen wrote
long and boresome panegyrics of Columbus to the
newspapers. Archbishops and bishops verbally vol-
leyed and thundered.
Such a year-long jubilee, reaching its apex of rap-
ture on October 12, was more than enough to ter-
rify that excitable portion of the American public
which sees sinister intentions beneath any display
of Catholic fervor. From this source, too, the A .P.A.
drummed up its share of legionaries .
And, lastly, some enterprising person within the
order itself decided that the time was gone by for
mere passive recruiting . Something big must be
done, something that would impress and affright .
Early in 1893, two alleged official documents of
the Roman Catholic hierarchy in the United States
began to circulate through midwestern America.
The first of these was entitled " Instructions to
Catholics." The second purported to be a bull of
Pope Leo XIII, hot from the Vatican . To the " In-
structions " were appended the names of eight
American archbishops, with the name of James,
Cardinal Gibbons himself, primate of his church in
the United States, bringing up the rear by way of
countersignature.
" We view with alarm [the prelates were quoted
as saying in the body of this vicious lampoon], the
rapid spread of educated intelligence, knowing well
SATOLLI; CORE ; PANTS ; PAGEANT ; FORGERY 225
that wherever the people are intelligent, the priest
and prince cannot hope to live on the labor of the
masses whose brains have been fertilized with our
holy catechism. That in order to restore the order
of things that made the reign of Gregory VII, of
holy memory, so glorious, the people must not
think ; that is a privilege that belongs only to the
pope, who by divine right is the only person ap-
pointed by God to do the political and religious
thinking of this world ."
Another evil beset this province of the church
militant:
" We view with alarm the rapid diffusion of the
English language . It stands before the world as the
tongue which has for 300 years ever been opposed
to our holy church, and those who speak it have
been foremost in assailing the holy see ."
As to schools :
" We are opposed to any system of schools that
teaches the youth more than the Roman catechism,
or that teaches the youth to think -it is unneces-
sary, a waste of time and money, when the holy
father has been appointed by God, especially at the
Vatican council in 1870, to do the thinking of this
world. Therefore we call upon our subjects to do
all they can to break down and destroy the free
public schools of this protestant nation, which has
226 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
compelled us to set up and maintain at great ex-
pense parochial schools to defend our faith, thus
lessening the incomes of the clergy ."
The remedy prescribed for these manifold evils:
" In order to find employment for the many thou-
sands of the faithful who are coming daily to swell
the ranks of our Catholic army, which will in due
time possess this land, we must secure control of all
the cities, railways, manufactories, mines, steam
and sailing vessels - above all the press - in fact,
every enterprise requiring labor, in order to furnish
our newcomers employment ; this will render it
necessary to remove or crowd out the American
heretics who are now employed .
" You need not hesitate ; it is your duty to do so .
You must not stop at anything to accomplish this
end. There are many ways to consult your father
confessor, but ` be careful to do nothing that will
create scandal.' "
The " Instructions " were, of course, forged, a
malevolent fake from beginning to end, as the
merest high school student of grammar and Eng-
lish composition could have divined. In what A.P.A.
newspaper they were first published is not known .
Within a month after their first publication every
one of the sixty-odd A .P.A. papers in the United
States was printing them over and over . Some held
SATOLLI; CORE ; PANTS ; PAGEANT ; FORGERY 227
the " Instructions " in type for use as emergency
space filler whenever the supply of fresh scandal
ran short. A few of these sheets qualified the libel's
baldness with a footnote to the effect that " the
essence of this pronouncement is to be found in the
writings of so-called American Romish bishops and
letters of the Pope," but the general practice was
to present the forgery as a genuine utterance from
the hierarchy's upper circle .
About the same time -April 8, 1893, to be ex-
act - the Detroit Patriotic American, an A.P.A.
journal, publishd the false encyclical of Pope Leo
XIII. This screed was not so lengthy as the " In-
structions," but it carried a far heavier charge of
dynamite. Whereas the " Instructions " merely de-
plored and suggested, the false bull issued a com-
mand of most horrific import. The meat of the
encyclical was contained in this paragraph :
" We proclaim the people of the United States
to have forfeited all right to rule said republic, and
also all dominion, dignity and privileges appertain-
ing to it. We likewise declare that all subjects of
every rank and condition in the United States, and
every individual who has taken any oath of loyalty
to the United States in any way whatever, may be
absolved from said oath, as from all other duty,
fidelity, or obedience on or about the fifth of Sep-
tember, 1893, when the Catholic congress shall
228 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
convene at Chicago, Illinois, as we shall exonerate
them from all engagements, and on or about the
feast of St. Ignatius Loyola, in the year of our Lord
-1893, it will be the duty of the faithful to exter-
minate all heretics found within the jurisdiction of
the United States of America ."
When this second blast of buncombe got about
the country, as it did with almost the speed of
lightning, panic closed its icy fingers around many
a Protestant heart . The farmers in the Middle West
were the worst affected by the encyclical .
Elbert Hubbard wrote for the Arena magazine
an account of a trip he made through the jungles of
rural Illinois in the spring of 1893 . Many of the
farmers had made their wills and their peace with
God, had stocked Winchesters and ammunition,
and were prepared to sell their lives for as many
Catholic lives as the Lord might vouchsafe them
when the feast day of St . Ignatius Loyola (July 31)
should roll around.
Of a Presbyterian and a Methodist minister
whom he visited in an Illinois village at this time,
Hubbard reported that " both were full of fear and
hate toward the Catholics, with a little left over for
each other." The excitement was often particularly
high in counties where not a Roman Catholic
resided.
A group of Protestant ministers in Columbus,
SATOLLI ; CORE ; PANIS ; PAGEANT ; FORGERY 229
Ohio, being appealed to for help in calming the rus-
tic fears, applied this decent and manly febrifuge :
" We are not in sympathy with Roman Catholi-
cism, as a system . Doctrinally and ecclesiastically,
we are Protestants in our deepest convictions ; it is
because we are Protestants that we are ashamed
and humiliated by the kind of warfare described in
this letter."
The proclamation, which was printed through-
out Ohio, went on to declare both the " Instructions
to Catholics " and the encyclical to be forgeries,
and stupid forgeries at that .
But they were not so stupid . They were adjusted
with beautiful accuracy to the norm of intelligence
of the clientele they were planned to reach, and
they drove panic-ridden people bleating into the
A.P.A. in herds. In June of 1893, the order is
thought to have had about 100,000 members. There
were those who believed that by that year's end it
could count one and one-half millions of members .
Three years later, Supreme President W . J. H .
Traynor boasted in the North American Review
that 2,500,000 American citizens and residents
were A.P.A.'s.
Desmond grants the order 1,000,ooo members
at the peak. But in this case, as in those of the
Know-Nothings and the twentieth-century Ku
Klux Klan, one guess is as good as another. Cer-
230 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
tain it is that this order frightened the politicians
even as the Know-Nothings had done in the time
of their glory and as the Ku Klux Klan was to do
in the third decade of the twentieth century .
St. Ignatius Loyola's day came and went . So did
September 5, 11893, and the Catholic congress set
for that date at Chicago. Having been fooled once,
the gullible yearned to be fooled again ; they kept
their powder dry and their gun barrels oiled
throughout that summer .
When the second day of doom failed to produce
a national conflagration, an explanation seemed to
be in order from the councils of the A.P.A. To the
American Citizen, Boston A.P.A. paper, went the
honor of evolving the most classical of the several
alibis advanced.
This paper, the Citizen advised its readers, had
steadfastly believed the false papal bull to be a
forgery, even in the times when every rustic evan-
gelical Protestant north and west had nightly ex-
pected to be done to death by papists while he
slept . But "a favorite scheme of the Jesuit is to cry
`wolf ' when there is no wolf ; and then, when off
their guard [sic], the wolf comes ." Hence it was
plain, to the Citizen's divining eye, that the Jesuits
themselves must have forged the bull and put it in
circulation ; and it was equally plain that Protes-
tants must be more than ever on guard .
CHAPTER XXVIII
AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION
ALMOST overnight then, the six-year-old mouse
became a lion ; a lion of the dark-browed, blood-
thirsty Lord worshiped by many rural Protestant
clergymen and their disciples in America . Fusing
with Republican local organizations it wrested
away in 1892 and/or 1893 the Democratic strong-
holds of Toledo, Keokuk, Peoria, Saginaw and
buth Omaha. It gained the balance of power in
many a state.
Denver and Detroit went under its spatulate
thumb, as did Duluth, Kansas City, Louisville,
Omaha proper, Rockford (Illinois) and St . Louis.
It was a veiled terror in Buffalo and Rochester,
New York; it owned the states of Connecticut and
Rhode Island. There were nearly two hundred
A.P.A. councils in Massachusetts, comprising
175,000 members.
One Congressman - William S . Linton of
Michigan - admitted that he belonged to the
A.P.A., as did Governor William O. Bradley of Ken-
tucky. Supreme President Traynor asserted in 1896
that the order had twenty members in congress, in
231
232 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
addition to one hundred others whom it had
" elected, but who had gone back on it ."
The " Instructions to Catholics " and the forged
encyclical of Leo XIII were not the only pumps of
terror used by the A.P.A. to bloat its membership
rolls. They were the most effective ; but a good sec-
ond was the beloved old story about arms stored
in Catholic churches. This legend was circulated
with telling effect by the Know-Nothings. The
A.P.A. gave it new life . Gosper's clash with Donegan
in Los Angeles has been described . Catholic churches
were searched for arms in West Toledo, Saginaw,
Grand Rapids and several other cities . None were
ever found, but it was felt by the best minds of the
A.P.A. that the papists always managed to get ad-
vance notice of the searches, and thus the story
gained in effectiveness rather than lost.
Never before or since the A.P.A. have the
ex-priests fallen on times so prosperous as the
years 1893 to 1896 inclusive, nor the escaped nuns .
And right nobly did these two battalions of anti-
Catholicism react to the sun of plenty.
Charles Pascal Telesphore Chiniquy, for in-
stance, now eighty-four years old and presumably
entitled to a release from his labors, suffered a re-
surgence of his ancient fire and went forth to battle
like a warhorse primed with turpentine .
" . . . Chiniquy," says the Rev. J. J. Tighe in
one of his blasts against the A.P.A., " who stood
AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION 233
upon a barrel head in the public street, and blas-
phemously performing the consecratory act, scat-
tered the particles to the winds of heaven, crying
out with fiendish glee, `Behold the God whom
Catholics adore ! "'
Father Tighe's spirit of Christian forbearance
for this act of a senile fool was expressed in these
choice words :
" When the multitudinous spirits of the damned
are marching on to the valley of eternal woe, that
the despairing cry of Chiniquy's lost soul may not
sound loud and shrill above that million-voiced
shriek of the hopeless reprobate, is the prayer we
put forth from a shocked and lacerated spirit . But
the Almighty blasteth often the vine in its flower."
Another ex-priest of national fame during the
A.P.A. furore was D. George P. Rudolph. Rudolph
imprudently married his housekeeper in 1881, and
was summarily suspended from the priestly func-
tions by Bishop Gilmore of Ohio. The pickings were
slim for him and his bride in the twelve years that
;passed before the A.P.A. took him up and hurled
.him to a brief fame.
The outstanding escaped nun of the time was
Margaret L. Shepherd. She wrote My Life in a
Convent, an echo of Maria Monk which may be
had at this writing from at least two anti-Catholic
publishing houses, price fifty cents the copy .
234. THE WARS OF THE GODLY
" Buy this book above all others," reads the
blurb of one of these concerns . " One of the sad-
dest narratives ever written . Wronged by a priest
through the confessional when but a young girl,
married to a priest, thrust into a convent with her
baby and abandoned by the priestly brute who had
promised to stand by her. It will hold you in its
grip until through tears and heart throbs you have
read the last line ."
Some perverse Catholics cruelly dug up evidence
going to show not only that Miss Shepherd had
never belonged to any Catholic order of nuns but
that she had a police record into the bargain . Yet
her book goes marching on.
The ex-priests after a time became so importu-
nate and offensive that even the A.P.A. in some
quarters could stomach them no longer .
Said President Jackman of the Iowa council :
" The average ex-priest is simply a leech suck-
ing the lifeblood of the councils for his own
enrichment."
The Iowa and Wisconsin state councils of the
A .P.A. determined to hire no more ex-priests as
lecturers ; whereat the latter set up a loud cackling
of " Traitors! Cowards! Pope lovers! "
Against the A.P.A. the Catholics turned a goodly
quantity of its own brands of fire. Catholic papers
pounded the order with a never-pausing barrage of
AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION 2 35
denunciation. Anti-A.P.A. booklets were distributed
by the carload, anti-A .P.A. lectures held through-
out the regions where the order's strength lay .
Catholics even went so far as to spy upon A .P.A.
meetings, or to insinuate themselves into councils
of the order, or to collect and publicly circulate
lists of members' names.
" The less defensible methods," says the his-
torian Humphrey J . Desmond, from whose book
on the A.P.A. was gleaned many a fact herein dis-
played, ",of breaking into A .P.A. councils and ob-
taining the records, and attempting to mob or in-
terfere with ex-priest and anti-Catholic lecturers,
were also episodes of the counter-movement in a
few localities."
Several Catholics formed, at New York City in
January, 1896, the American Order of United
Catholics, for the express purpose of fighting the
A.P.A. This society's supreme council issued a con-
fidential circular in which its purposes were set
forth. The circular amounted to a rewriting and
condensation of the A .P.A. oaths, with the terms
Protestant and Catholic used in reverse order . A
part of the announcement ran as follows :
" To unite fraternally all practical Catholics of
every profession, business, and occupation ; to give
all possible aid in its power to members of the or-
ganization by encouraging each other in business,
236 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
and by assisting each other to obtain employment;
to uphold and defend the Catholic faith, clergy,
and institutions, against naturalized foreigners,
who, aided and abetted by said class of native
Americans, have gained great strength and power
in our legislatures."
Little was ever done by, or heard of, the United
Catholics. The well-established Ancient Order of
Hibernians and the growing Knights of Columbus
were delivering practically all the blather and vilifi-
cation that were needed on the Catholic side.
But a doom was preparing for the A .P.A. in a
quarter having little to do with Catholicity and less
to do with religion. The noble order was, though it
did not know it, about to be done to death by its
own political ambitions.
Republican politicos in the cities had early ascer-
tained that many an A.P.A. council chief could be
tempted sorely with the bait of public office. How
dear the A .P.A. held this perquisite of good lodge
brothers and party workers is perhaps best illus-
trated by the treatment the Denver council meted
out to Mayor Van Horn of that city, whom it
elected to office .
Van Horn took the A .P.A. oath before his elec-
tion, though he asserted afterward that he misun-
derstood the nature of his act when he did so . To
show that his renunciation of A.P.A. tendencies
AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION 237
was complete, on his first day in office Van Horn
named a Roman Catholic as chief of Denver police.
The A.P.A. demanded that the appointee be dis-
missed. Van Horn refused. His ex-comrades then
ordered hung in their council chamber a photo-
graph of the mayor, draped with black and cap-
tioned " Perjuror and Traitor ." A set of resolutions
was passed, solemnly decreeing:
" that all communication with said traitor and
perjuror do now forever cease,"
and that
" wherever his carcass repose in the arms of
Mother Earth, in whatsoever land, an unknown
committee, duly appointed, shall perform its last
rite in the name of this council, by marking the
place, that all may know,' Here lies a traitor ."'
Having taken note of this thirst for political
power, local Republican organizations in many
cities filtered into the A .P.A. councils, at first sin-
gly, then in pairs, then by dozens and hundreds .
The semi-public nuptials of Republicanism and
A.P.A'ism became so notorious that the Cheyenne
(Wyo.) Leader was moved to remark, " The kite
is labelled A.P.A. -the tail, G.O.P."
The Democratic party early shook itself free of
any suspicion of A .P.A. affiliations. Local Demo-
cratic platforms damned the order from the mo-
238 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
ment of its rise to national prominence in mid-
1893. State conventions did likewise, and so did
individual Democratic leaders. Governor Altgeld
of Illinois thundered against the order, as did Gov-
ernor Peck of Wisconsin and Senators Vilas, Hill
and Vest.
The A.P.A. was not the schism breeder for the
Democracy that federal prohibition and Alfred E .
Smith's religion are at this writing, for the reason
that the A.P.A. had no foothold in the South save
in parts of Georgia, Texas, Tennessee and Ken-
tucky. Hence, the Democrats of the North could
repudiate the order without treading over-heavily
on southern anti-Catholic prejudices, and so make
themselves popular with Catholics and " weak-
kneed, lily-livered, Pope-loving "Protestants every-
where.
Chicago gave the A .P.A. its first serious defeat in
any election. Calling itself the Independent Ameri-
can Citizens' party,, the Association threw a ticket
into the Chicago municipal election of November,
1894. Its bosses predicted a ballot of not less than
40,000 for their candidates, and a probable victory .
Out of 233,579 votes cast, the anti-Catholic ticket
drew 917 ; and Chicago was saved for its latter-day
inheritance by the gunmen and Big Bill Thompson .
In the following April the order lost two of its
strongholds : Bridgeport, Connecticut, and Brad-
ford, Massachusetts . The Presidential year of '96
n~ rinwvtrs
I
I
TUMIA TY
Q,
Nrres OF
ri=m 9 '~:'
Ii
By Courtesy of New Menace, Protestant Weekly Newspaper, Aurora, Missouri
ANTI-CATHOLIC CARTOON FROM The Menace, circa I9II
AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION 239
rolled in, and the Michigan A.P.A. was unable to re-
turn its member William S . Linton to Congress.
Bryan's golden voice wooed the votes from under
the Nebraska councils in the same year . The last
large A.P.A. city to fall was Toledo, Ohio, which
" Golden Rule " Jones snatched from the profes-
sional Protestants in 1897 .
But the man destined to give the A.P.A. its
death-blow as a national power was William Mc-
Kinley. What though McKinley did perform that
obvious straddle at a Kansas City political rally
in 1894? A heckler inquired : " What is the matter
with the A.P.A.? " McKinley countered with,
" The question with us is, What is the matter with
the country? " The time had not come for the Re-
publicans to swallow this lion of the left-wing Prot-
estants' Lord, nor had Mark Hanna made up his
mind to push McKinley into the White House.
Hanna came to that decision early in 1895 . Be-
sides Governor McKinley of Ohio there were many
aspirants for the Republican Presidential nomina-
tion. Most prominent of these were Allison of Iowa,
Quay of Pennsylvania, Cullom of Illinois, Ken-
tucky's A.P.A. governor Bradley, ex-President
Benjamin Harrison.
One J. B. Clarkson, Republican national com-
mitteeman from Iowa, conceived one of two ideas ;
which of the two, was never definitely made known .
Both, however, involved the sweetening of sundry
240 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
A.P.A. leaders with Republican campaign funds
which Clarkson procured. One story has it that
Clarkson wanted to swing the A.P.A. against Mc-
Kinley and for Quay of Pennsylvania . The other is
that the A .P.A. leaders merely accepted the Clark-
son money as so much unlooked-for manna from on
high, they having already determined if possible
to pledge a large delegation to Bradley and Linton
for use as a club to bludgeon promises of patron-
age out of whomever the Republican convention
might nominate for President in June. At all events,
the A.P.A. opened fire on McKinley in April, 1896.
The master effort of the executive board, or
Zodiac, of the A.P.A. in this battle was a circular
containing these statements :
" The Roman Catholic hierarchy, seeing no
probability of electing one of its cowardly tools to
the presidency on any ticket other than the Repub-
lican, has through its leaders and followers massed
its strength and resources to the support of Major
McKinley.
" As an unanswerable evidence of this statement
it is sufficient to say that Archbishop Ireland of St .
Paul, the most Jesuitical and dangerous Papal
leader in this country ; Bishop Watterson of Ohio,
for years the intimate and confidential friend and
advisor of Major McKinley, and the most influen-
tial factor in McKinley's administration as gov-
AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION 241
ernor of Ohio ; Tom Carter of Montana, Steve
Elkins of West Virginia, whose daughter was mar-
ried to a Papist by Archbishop Corrigan, and whose
sympathies were publicly announced in the United
States Senate when he fought the passage of the
Indian Appropriation bill as amended on motion
of Congressman Linton in the house, and passed by
that body ; and every other prominent as well as
obscure Papist claiming to be a Republican ; last,
but not least of one, Richard Kerens of Missouri,
who in his private car a few months ago enter-
tained as his guests Archbishops Satolli and Corri-
gan and other celebrities of the Roman Hierarchy,
in a transcontinental trip to Arizona and return,
his car decorated with the American colors, and the
Papal colors above them, are each and all ardently
advocating the nomination of McKinley and using
every means to accomplish that end ." (Copied
from quotation in The A .P.A . Movement, by H. J.
Desmond. )
A whispering campaign echoed the paper drive
upon McKinley, its most exquisite development
occurring when Mark Hanna was forced to make
public denial that his protege, a lifelong Methodist,
belonged to the Ancient Order of Hibernians.
Hanna himself did not escape the all-seeing eye of
the Association.
" Hanna is a Romanist," proclaimed President
242 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
A . D. Hubbard of the Kansas A .P.A., " and I know
it, and so does every other A.P.A."
But McKinley's strength grew . When the A.P.A.
met in national convention that spring, it felt
itself obliged to call off its war on Mark Hanna's
white knight and restore his name to its list of eli-
gibles for the Republican nomination, albeit at the
bottom of the list. What if McKinley should be
nominated and elected? Where would the A .P.A.
hopes of patronage be then?
The Association's convention met at Washing-
ton on May 12, 1896. Two days later a band of
emissaries therefrom waited upon McKinley at
Canton, Ohio, to question him as to his opinion of
the order. The emissaries reported that he ex-
pressed himself as heartily in accord with A .P.A.
doctrine. To the press, McKinley denied that he
ever saw the committee from Washington .
This conflict of claims brought on the great
schism which took most of the awesomeness out of
the American Protective Association and greased
the ways for its rapid slide into oblivion . Die-hards
from some twenty states waited until the conven-
tion had adjourned, then called a rump convention
of their own. The supreme council meanwhile had
not been idle. What occurred was told as clearly as
it was ever to be - and not very clearly at that
- by a Whereas in the resolutions which the die-
hards passed ; to-wit :
AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION 243
" Whereas, the members of the supreme council
have, during its session, been handled and badgered
by a large McKinley lobby composed of members
and non-members of the order that has used the
most disreputable blackmailing methods to dis-
credit the advisory board and to turn the supreme
council into a McKinley ratification meeting, and
having signally failed to clear McKinley of the
consequences of his pro-papal political record, to-
(lay, after two-thirds of the delegates had started
for home, attempted to take revenge by abolishing
the National Advisory board and accomplished the
same by a vote of 30 to 29."
Whatever occult proceedings these words report,
the upshot of the after-convention convention was
the election of a new set of officers of the A.P.A. :
president, J. W. Echols, of Atlanta ; vice-president,
Henry S . Williams, of Boston ; secretary of state,
H. P. J. Swaine, of California; chaplain, W. H.
Gotwold, of Washington ; secretary, W. J. Palmer,
of Butte ; treasurer, C. C. Campbell, of Minne-
apolis.
Could the A.P.A., with its moguls at one an-
other's throats, wield much power in the coming
Republican national convention? That question,
among many others roaring for answer in the
question-shot year of '96, agitated the nation for a
month. Could the order - would it try to - block
244 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
McKinley's nomination? Would it wreck the Re-
publican party if McKinley or any one else it dis-
liked were chosen? Would it have a hand in nailing
together the planks of the Republican platform?
Was the A.P.A. giant or bogey man, lion in the
flesh or werewolf of legend?
The Republican convention duly assembled at
St. Louis in June. At once it became known that
the A.P.A. would not oppose McKinley . But
surely it would sit in at the platform committee
meetings? An old gentleman by name and title
Colonel Sellers - Christian name undiscovered by
this writer - was puttering about the convention
hall and the hotel rooms . He wanted the platform to
carry a declaration against use of public funds for
sectarian institutions. Somebody learned that he
represented, officially, the A.P.A. Nay, more :
Colonel Sellers claimed that the plank's adoption
had been promised him by Senator Gear of Iowa .
But the promise, if it was ever made, had slipped
Gear's mind .
Mastication and digestion of the A .P .A. was,
in fact, practically accomplished by the Republican
party. Colonel Sellers received the blandly silent
treatment in making his rounds of the delegations,
and when the platform was at last drawn up the
A.P.A.'s pet plank was not there.
Archbishop Ireland of St. Paul took this occasion
to demonstrate that Americans need not fear Cath-
AN ELEPHANT SWALLOWS A LION 24.5
olic clerical meddling with politics by sending the
following telegram to St. Louis:
" St. Paul, Minn., June 17, 1896 . - To Hon.
Thomas H. Carter, national committeeman, St.
Louis, Mo. : The clause in the proposed platform
opposing the use of public money for sectarian pur-
poses and union of church and state is unnecessary
and uncalled for. It is urged by the A .P.A. Its
adoption will be taken as a concession to them ;
will awaken religious animosities in the country and
do much harm. The Republican party should not
lower itself to recognize, directly or indirectly,
the A.P.A. I hope the clause, or anything like it,
will not be adopted . JOHN IRELAND ."
If any document could have been more nicely
calculated than that one to breathe back life into
the corpse of the A.P.A., it has not passed beneath
these eyes.
But the telegram had no such revivifying effect.
Colonel Sellers lugged his school plank to the Dem-
ocratic convention at Chicago, where he was re-
fused a hearing. He returned to St . Louis for the
Populist convention, only to receive the same treat-
ment. Then he went home, and ninty-five per cent
of the A.P.A. membership went back to its old
political affiliations .
McKinley defeated Bryan in the following No-
vember. He signalized his contempt for the A .P.A.
246 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
-now that he was safely over the hurdle -by
appointing a Catholic to his first cabinet, making
the Catholic Terrence V . Powderly commissioner of
immigration, and giving the Catholic Bellamy
Storer a responsible diplomatic post .
CHAPTER XXIX
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN
THE A.P.A. sank beneath the surface of the
public consciousness in i9oo . Its last election of
national officers was held in that year . The order
re-elected Henry F. Bowers supreme president, as
'was now its annual habit, but it never convened to
consider the state of the Republic again . Bowers
lived until 19 11, retaining his office and the slender
perquisites thereof until his death .
For some years the land had surcease from
struggles between Catholic and Protestant . The
flood of anti-Catholicism sank back into the storage
reservoirs where it customarily reposes between
periods of overflow ; namely, the junior Order,
United American Mechanics, the lower intellectual
levels of Masonry, and numerous minor fraternal
orders.
Local flurries blew up here and there, generally
over schools, but for a considerable time the busi-
ness of baiting the Catholics was fallen on evil
days.
" I started in the early days of the old A .P.A.
movement of thirty years ago," says that dauntless
247
248 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
scourge of the Pope, William Lloyd Clark of Milan,
Illinois, in the section of his autobiography which
deals with this melancholy interlude .
" That order was wrecked and assassinated by
corrupt politicians who tried to use it for their own
selfish ends.
" Then midnight came. No Protestant or patri-
otic organization with which to work . The Protes-
tant preachers and churches were as dead as the
mummies of Egypt . No pulpit open. No money
with which to rent halls . Not a friendly hand ex-
tended anywhere. No one interested even to the
extent of buying a book when I tried to peddle
literature . Railroad fare and hotel bills to meet
and a wife and children depending on me for the
necessities of life. Twenty years of that kind of
thing."
Little incidents in the everyday life of a Mid-
west crusader may prove of interest at this point .
Under the heading " On the Skirmish Line," the
above-named Mr. Clark has gathered some thirty
or more brief reports of battles in which he played
a not inconspicuous or even unheroic part . They
give a splendid picture of the trials and triumphs
that make an anti-papal warrior's life worth the
living. For example :
" Upper Alton, Ill. - I lectured for two weeks
in the auditorium of Shurtleff College . Romanist
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 249
cut the electric wires leading to the building and
left the speaker and audience in total darkness .
Another night the rowdies filled the radiators with
cayenne pepper which created a panic by causing
the people to sneeze their heads almost off."
But worse was to come :
" Anna, Ill.- I was assaulted by a papal thug
who knocked me down and pounded me almost to
death, fracturing my jaw bone . The hotel in this
city was burned to punish the landlord for enter-
taining a patriotic speaker ."
Sometimes, however, the Lord remembereth His
handmaiden :
" Shelbyville, Ill.- Just before time to lecture
mob destroys my platform and lamps . In breaking
up a torch a Roman Catholic Irishman splashes
gasoline over his clothes, which ignite, giving him
a little forecast of purgatory."
Nor are quite all the people in the great state of
Illinois completely anesthetized by popish propa-
ganda:
" Farmington, Ill.- The speaker'$ life is threat-
ened and special police protection is necessary to
guard him to and from his hotel. The citizens pur-
chase costly Colt's revolver by popular subscrip-
250 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
tion and present it to the speaker in public mass
meeting."
Surely the hand of the Lord was visible here :
" Winona, Minn.- Pelted with rotten fruit and
stale eggs while on way to hotel after delivering a
lecture in the open air. The enemy endeavors to
break into my room in the hotel and I fire on the
leader of the mob with a 45 caliber Colt's revolver,
missing, but sending the mob panic stricken into the
streets."
Having related which incidents and many more
of the same complexion, Mr. Clark inquires :
" What think ye of an institution that claims to
be the only true church out of which there is no
salvation and yet seeks to redden its hands by
shedding the blood of every man brave enough to
tell the truth about her deeds of darkness?"
But such sufferings could not go on forever. The
climax came when, penniless and disheartened in
" a little Protestant town " twelve miles out of
Dixon, Illinois, this crusader was taken to the home
of " a good man " who fed him and spoke kindly
to him, " the first real encouragement I had re-
ceived for many months."
" It seemed to be the turning of the tide . Then
came in a few years the Guardians of Liberty, the
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 2 5 1
Knights of Luther and the Pathfinders, all of which
gave co-operation and opened a field for new
labor."
The World War and America's participation
therein were to intervene between this dawn and
the day of glory's high noontide, but faith was to
be at last triumphantly vindicated :
" The other night I stood under the light of the
Fiery Cross and looked into the faces of 50,000
loyal men and my heart was glad and my eyes filled
with tears."
Reference is had here to a Ku Klux klonvocation
sometime in 1924 or earlier. Said Mr. Clark in a
letter to the writer dated January 10, 1928 :
" I campaigned for the Klan in Missouri, Okla .
Ind, Ill. and other states. Many thousands of men
signed their petitions for the order during my
lectures. I withdrew from the order three years ago
because of its criminal methods, the un-American
nature of its constitution, and the immorality and
criminal nature of many of its prominent leaders ."
Mr. Clark mentions the Guardians of Liberty,
the Knights of Luther and the Pathfinders . These
orders, with a fourth named the Covenanters, were
the most powerful organizations which kept alight
the fires of anti-Catholic prejudice from 1911 until
America's entry into the war .
252 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
But the caldron of hate was first set boiling anew
in a really big way by one man. He was Thomas E.
Watson, sometime United States Senator from
Georgia, editor and owner of The Jeffersonian,
prohibitionist, reformer, student of ancient history,
foe of foreign missions, " sage of Hickory Hill."
Watson burst upon the world as a crusader
against popery in the editorial column of his mag-
azine for August, 1910. He captioned the announce-
ment of his resolve to drive Catholicity from these
shores with the words "THE ROMAN CATHOLIC
HIERARCHY : THE DEADLIEST MENACE To OUR
LIBERTIES AND OUR CIVILIZATION ." The editorial
contained the usual disavowal of hostility toward
individual Catholics and the usual philippics
against the Catholic priesthood . When the time
came for Watson to explain why he, more than any
other man, should feel called upon to go forth to
this battle, he blushed a modest blush and wrung
this paragraph from the editorial typewriter:
" Emerson predicted that a Thinker would arise
among us, some day, and that when he did, there
would be a convulsion and readjustment . There
are those who rate Emerson himself as a Thinker,
but the revolution has not materialized. Perhaps he
was too much of a generalizer, without the nerve
or the faculty to lay his dynamite underneath
anything in particular . He was of the Erasmus
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 2 53
type, willing to lay eggs, but not to raise chickens :
willing to dream and write, but not to march and
fight."
Watson's publications carried on a campaign
against Romanism with varying ferocity from the
opening gun until the death of Georgia's champion
hell raiser in September, 1922 .
The United States government, doubtless at the
behest of the Vatican, leapt upon Watson in 1913
with a charge that he had sent obscene matter
through the mails. A defect in the indictment forced
dismissal of the first prosecution, but with un-
Christian malevolence the federal district attor-
ney at Augusta, Georgia, obtained a second bill and
brought Watson to his trial. The jury disagreed .
Still the hounds of government bayed upon his
trail. His long persecution ceased when, in No-
vember, 1916, a jury acquitted him and left him
free to beard the Pope unhampered by the petty
whims of federal officials.
Dying, Watson requested that upon his head-
stone be graved the simple epitaph, " Here lies the
enemy of the Bourbons, the Jesuits and the Inas-
muches."
The organization known as the Guardians of
Liberty was the pet of the old age of that famous
Civil War and Indian fighter, Lieut .-Gen. Nelson
Appleton Miles, U . S. A. Captor of the Nez Perce
2 54 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
chief Joseph, conqueror of Geronimo's Apaches,
terror of the western plains in the seventies and
of the Chicago railway strikers in 1894, General
Miles was one of four men who organized the
Guardians of Liberty at Washington in June, 1911 .
The others were Ex-Congressman Charles D .
Haines of New York; Charles B. Skinner, ex-
superintendent of public instruction of New York
state ; and Thomas E. Watson himself.
Principles announced as controlling the order
were those with which attentive readers of the pres-
ent volume are by this time wearily familiar
- immigration restriction, no domination by for-
eign ecclesiasticism, America First, America For-
ever. The Church of Rome was not named in the
constitution and by-laws adopted by the order .
In fact, a strong anti-Catholic complexion was
not given the Guardians of Liberty until Watson
made up his mind to publicize it as an anti-
Catholic society. This he did early in 1912 . General
Miles at first opposed Watson's wishes.
" It is," he averred, " purely a patriotic order."
The Catholics preferred to believe Watson's
forthright exposition of what the Guardians of Lib-
erty stood for. On March 1o, 1912, Cardinal Gib-
bons loosed this thunderbolt from his palace at
Baltimore
" This order is plainly nothing more than an
attempt to revive the bigotry of the A.P.A., which
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 255
was presumed to have died of inanition. Surely no
sensible man will be misled by the thin and thread-
bare arguments of such people."
Asked whether the Baltimore ukase was ap-
proved at Rome, Cardinal Merry Del Val, Secre-
tary of the Congregation of the Holy Office and
Archpriest of the Vatican Basilica, admitted to
American press correspondents that he had passed
upon and authorized the document in behalf of the
Pope himself.
General Horatio C. King, whom Miles had per-
suaded to join the new lodge, resigned a day or
two after Gibbons thundered ; and so did Major-
Gen. D . E . Sickles. Charles B. Skinner denied hav-
ing authorized the use of his name on the Guar-
dians' stationary. Miles was left with Watson to
carry on the new crusade. He was swiftly won over
to the Watson view that the Guardians should func-
tion as watchmen on the walls of Pope-threatened
Zion.
Why Miles became alarmed at this time it would
be difficult to say with assurance . Apparently he
himself did not know the reason .
" The Guardians of Liberty simply believe," he
told the press by way of retort to Cardinal Gibbons,
"in the adage: ` In time of peace prepare for war .'
We are asked what specific thing the Catholic
church has done to call for action . I answer by say-
256 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
ing that the United States is building battleships,
although no foreign nation is hostile toward us ."
And, in very truth, one never knows where or
how the hierarchy may strike next. It was noted,
and duly commented upon by the Guardians in
justification of their alarm, that in November,
1911, President William Howard Taft and family
attended Thanksgiving services at St. Patrick's
Roman Catholic church in Washington. A patriot
could not tell but that Mr . Tafis true nature was
coming out at last, after all these years in which
the nation had supposed him to be a staunch Uni-
tarian - which was bad enough.
In August, z9 z 2, the Guardians of Liberty,
claiming 126,ooo members, absorbed the Immigra-
tion Restriction League, membership of the latter
not stated in the articles of capitulation .
Miles was now a full-fledged battler against the
Pope, and had added scars from this warfare to
the collection he had gleaned in the Civil and
Indian wars . He was denied the use of the Odeon
lecture hall in St. Louis on May 24, 1912, where he
was scheduled to deliver his lecture on " America's
Danger." Rescission of the contract for the hall
was executed on demand of several prominent
St. Louis Catholics.
The general toured the country, happy in re-
peating his speech, shaking hands with his multi-
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 257
tudes of admirers, passing out copies of The
Menace and similar anti-Catholic papers. No
doubt, though his tongue named Roman Catholics
as the quarry of his twentieth-century Excalibur,
the old gentleman was slaughtering Indians and
Johnny Rebs in his mind .
So far as disclosed by available newspaper
clippings of the time, the Guardians of Liberty
made only two noticeable dents in the national
consciousness. Most of their abounding energy
went into such melancholy tasks as that of protest-
ing to the New York City board of estimate against
expenditure of city funds for field masses in the
Brooklyn navy yard, or tracking down the Roman
Catholic affiliations of teachers in public schools
here and there.
But when William Sulzer was impeached and
ousted as governor of New York in 1913, the
Guardians bade fair to prove a useful weapon for
his drive to regain power at the next election . The
Buffalo and Rochester Courts - as the Guardians'
chapters were called - gave promise of swinging
many a vote to Sulzer in the election of 1914 .
Sulzer, Whitman and Martin H. Glynn were
waging three-cornered war for the governorship
that fall, with Sulzer bellowing that Tammany had
merged forces with the Pope to get his official
scalp. Alton B. Parker, who ran against Theodore
Roosevelt for president in 1904, was moved on this
258 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
occasion to join with Roosevelt in denouncing the
Guardians as " pinheads."
Yet Sulzer did not receive the Guardians' sup-
port after all. They, and a mysterious offshoot of
theirs known in New York only as the P's 1 and
extremely secretive as to membership, quit the
Sulzer camp shortly before the election .
The explanation unearthed by the newspapers
was that all had gone well until the state organizer
of the P's, an ex-undertaker from Albany, de-
manded $io,ooo from Sulzer for the two organi-
zations' support of his candidacy, which Suizer
indignantly refused to pay. For this cause among
several, he was not elected .
Fourteen months passed before the Guardians
won to the columns of the New York dailies again.
They appeared in 1916 as the enemies of the Gary
system which the board of education of New York
City yearned to introduce into the New York
schools.
General Miles and his comrades divined that the
Pope had a hand in this agitation . A news story of
January 2 r, 19 16, relates how Miles and the Rev.
Drs . William Milton Hess, Paul Buffa and Amadeo
M . D. Riggio filled Cooper Union with an anti-
Gary system mass meeting . The story goes on to
say that every speaker, in his anxiety to leave no
1 The New York World eventually discovered that P stood for
Pathfinders.
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 259
Catholic hair unsinged, forgot completely to ex-
plain what the Gary system was .
When the United States declared war on the
Imperial German government in April, 1917, the
Guardians of Liberty were promptly forgotten .
The Kaiser usurped the place of the Pope as Anti-
christ in the American demonology, and reigned in
his stead for nigh four years, or until Edward
Young Clarke pulmotored the Klan out of bank-
ruptcy. With the Guardians sank out of sight the
Knights of Luther, the Covenanters and the Ameri-
can Pathfinders.
The anti-papal gadfly which stung the Catholics
deepest in those days, however, was none of these
lodges. It was a newspaper that went by the name
of The Menace.
Hardly any one who attained his or her majority
prior to 1925 but will remember the smudgy little
four-page firebrand that issued weekly out of
Aurora, Missouri, hissing with every species of ac-
cusation against Catholicity. Freight cars paraded
the hobo-chalked legend " Read The Menace " up
and down the nation. Baptist and Methodist pas-
tors in many a rural kirk were wont to read the
paper from their pulpits in lieu of sermons . It was
frowned upon publicly by conservative Protes-
tants, but some of these told one another in private
that it was doing a worthy work.
Catholics bellowed against the little sheet in pul-
26o THE WARS OF THE GODLY
pit and market-place. Knights of Columbus went
through its every issue with magnifying glasses
in search of grounds for libel actions . The Cath-
olic press screamed anathema. The Menace gyrated
and bawled unchecked.
The paper hurtled thus freely through its career
by virtue of what many ardent churchmen consider
a flaw in the law of libel, but for whose existence
thoughtful citizens thank whatever gods may be.
The alleged weakness consists in the fact -here
stated generally, and subject to exceptions - that
an individual or corporation may with impunity
publish any sort of defamation of a part of a
class, such as Roman Catholics, Knights of Colum-
bus, nuns, prohibitionists or Two-Seed-in-the-Spirit
Baptists, so long as no special damage can be
proved by an individual belonging to the part of
the class so libeled .
Catholics made many an effort to have the libel
laws remolded nearer to their hearts' desire to kill
off The Menace, but without success. Father Ross-
man, a West Virginia divine, recovered a judgment
of $r,5oo against The Menace for libel, but it is
believed that this was the lone drop of blood drawn
from the paper during its lusty life. One of the at-
torneys for the defense in Father Rossman's case
argued that The Menace's reputation was so noto-
rious as to render harmless anything it might say
about anybody.
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 261
The paper was established at Aurora, Missouri,
in 1911. Its senior editor, first and last, was the
Rev. Dr. Theodore Walker, a Congregationalist
minister. During most of its life its managing edi-
tor was Marvin Brown, its business manager Wil-
bur F. Phelps, its plant superintendent Bruce Mal-
colm Phelps. This quadrumvirate built up the
paper from nothing to an octopus of the press
boasting- and conceded by its bitterest enemies
-a circulation of over 1,500,000 copies per week.
Its aims and ambitions, from which it immedi-
ately departed and remained away during its entire
career, were thus set forth in Dr. Walker's maiden
editorial :
" The Menace was not begun in a captious spirit,
far from it, but with a profound conviction that a
'very grave and portentous menace confronts the
American people, that needs to be given publicity .
"The Menace has no fight with the Roman re-
ligion for those who like it, as it relates to salvation
and the future life .
" The threatening danger to American institu-
tions, a free church, a free press, a free school, the
right of private judgment in the matter of con-
science - these the Roman church subordinates
to the authority of its hierarchy.
" The private, humble communicant in the Cath-
olic church has no choice what he is to believe - it
is for him to obey the voice of the church .
262 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
" The Menace takes issue with this voice and not
with the communicant ; with the authorities that
direct, and not the man or woman who feels com-
pelled to obey.
"The Menace, therefore, enters a legitimate
field of criticism open to all whether he be Catholic,
Protestant, Greek or Jew, Mohammedan or Free-
thinker.
" If the Catholic church is a menace to American
liberty and free institutions, the people ought to
know it, especially the Catholic members .
" The only freedom that is worth having at all
is that which the Christ announced when he said,
` and the truth shall make you free.'
" It is not a question of who utters condemna-
tion against priestcraft and ecclesiastical interfer-
ence in things belonging exclusively to the state ;
but, is the charge true?
" To assail the editor of The Menace or its pub-
lishers will avail nothing . The hierarchy must meet
the impending crisis which The Menace believes is
at hand or be driven from the field as in France,
Germany, Spain and every great nation of modern
times."
From its establishment through the first half
of 1915, the paper took in a total in excess of
$3,000,000. Its circulation topped 1,400,000 copies
per week within three years after the first issue
appeared. Upton Sinclair might have concocted a
P.UA.P oo.
JAMES J. FLAHERTY
EX-SUPREME KNIGHT OF THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 263
sour footnote for his " The Profits of Religion "
from the fact, unearthed by the Knights of Colum-
bus and by them duly lamented, that in the first
six months of 1914 The Menace earned $500 on
each $ioo share of stock.
Canada's postmaster-general barred the paper
from the Dominion mails in April, 194-which
action pumped several thousand new subscriptions
into the Aurora business office's maw.
A similar effect was produced by the prosecution
Of the paper's four sponsors on a charge of using
the mails for the shipment of printed obscenities .
The Menace trial was a direct result of activities of
the Knights of Columbus . One Sir Knight Paul
Bakewell, of Missouri, wrote a fiery letter to
United States Postmaster-General Albert S . Burle-
son, demanding action against the paper. Landry
Harwood, head of the Catholic order in Missouri,
caused the letter to be printed and widely circu-
lated. Pressure on the federal officials at Joplin be-
came unendurable, and a federal grand jury in that
city presently indicted Messrs. Walker, Brown,
Phelps and Phelps.
The prosecution was based on two items : (i) a
story published in The Menace of the alleged se-
duction of a young girl by a Roman Catholic priest,
and (2) a book of ex-priest Jeremiah J. Crowley's,
published by the Menace book concern and con-
taining obscene questions alleged to have been pre-
264 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
scribed by St. Aiphonsus Liguori in his Moral The-
ology as proper to be asked of young girls in the
confessional - an old favorite of the anti-Catholic
pamphleteers'.
It developed at the trial that Harwood, for the
Knights, and E. V. Schneiderhahn for the American
Federation of Catholic Societies, had been collect-
ing files of The Menace for the two years last past,
preparatory to this leap at the publication's brass-
lined throat. The tide of battle raged up and down
Judge Arba S. Van Valkenburgh's courtroom for
four long and bloody days . Burning speeches were
made to a befuddled jury by District Attorney
Francis M. Wilson for the government and Messrs .
J. L. McNatt and J. I. Sheppard for the defense.
Later on, B. 0 . Flower wrote a book about the
trial, wherein he compared the town of Joplin
favorably with Harper's Ferry, Marathon, Salamis,
Runnymede, Independence Hall and the Alamo .
Through all the smoke and flame and cusswords
The Menace staff won to an acquittal ; and we are
told that great was the rejoicing thereat in Joplin .
For the subsequent history of The Menace, we
must turn to the masthead of The New Menace,
which, at least until January 25, 1928, was issuing
from Aurora, Missouri, as a weekly anti-Catholic
paper whose chief pets were Senator J. Thomas
Heflin of Alabama and William H. Anderson, late
of Sing Sing and at this writing chieftain of the
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 265
American Protestant Alliance . The sheriff was on
the trail of The New Menace with papers from the
bank, " because so-called patriots fooled us with
bad accounts," and a forced sale was threatened if
$2,500 were not paid by the date above named .
" Until the disastrous incendiary fire in Decem-
ber of i 9 i 9," says the masthead, " when its plant
was destroyed (laying the groundwork for a long-
drawn-out court battle), it (The Menace) carried
On valiantly against political Romanism . In April of
192o The New Menace rose from the ashes. . . . "
What did the Catholics do in these years by way
of returning the Protestant hot shot? The Catho-
lics were not long idle . They wrung hands and
shrieked persecution for a space, then determined
to gird on the sword of the Lord and of Gideon .
On February io, 1915, the supreme governing
body of the Knights of Columbus appropriated
$50,000 to finance an investigation of the reasons
for and sources of the various latter-day anti-
Catholic movements . The committee appointed to
conduct the probe comprised five eminent Knights :
Col. P. H. Callahan, of Louisville, chairman ; Jo-
seph C. Pelletier, of Boston ; Joseph Scott, of Los
Angeles ; Thomas A. Lawler, of Lansing, Michi-
gan ; and A. G. Bagley, of Vancouver, B. C.
This file of sappers and miners did a huge
amount of interviewing and letter writing and
266 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
sifting of evidence. In August it turned in its first
report.
" An anti-Catholic feeling, more or less excited,"
the committee had learned, " existed in every sec-
tion of the country and practically in every com-
munity."
Which was no news at all to anybody . Nor was it
exactly a discovery that the anti-Catholic feeling
was " most conspicuous in political circles," though
it was by no means absent from the business and
social domains. The committee did produce an
acute bit of analysis, however, in its paragraphs
devoted to the classes of people from which most
of the attacks on American Catholicity came :
" First: those who fail to appreciate the consti-
tutional provision regarding freedom of religious
worship or to understand the belief of those pro-
fessing a religion other than their own .
" Secondly : those whose purpose is to destroy
not only the Catholic religion, but all religion and
all duly constituted government.
" Thirdly : perhaps the worst class comprises
those who, despite their expressed motives of high
purpose, are actuated solely by sordid mercenary
considerations."
The chief objections entertained by Protestants
to Catholics, the committee found, were two in
number : first, that the Catholics were supposed to
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 267
be resolved to gain control of the public schools,
and, secondly, that they were thought to owe civil
allegiance to the Pope . Both of these charges the
committee noisily denied .
It was when the committee worked around to
a narration of its own activities against anti-
Catholicism that its report grew interesting. Several
California Masons, for example, had been induced
to read the Knights of Columbus ritual from be-
ginning to end, and had proclaimed it a noble doc-
ument. The once bitterly anti-papal Harper's
Weekly had been prevailed upon to publish a de-
bate on Catholicism, Father Francis Kelly of the
Catholic Extension handling the pen for the Cath-
olics against W. W. Prescott of the Protestant
Magazine. These were the major love feasts and
manly facings of the issue which the committee
had brought about and now reported with just
pride.
The higher blather had been called to the com-
mittee's aid on several occasions, and the more ex-
quisite samples were set down at length in the
report. For instance, a Baptist journal having re-
marked editorially that" it is the belief of Catholics
that we are a nation of adulterers," Colonel Calla-
han's trusty apologists for the faith acidly replied :
" It is the belief of Catholics that marriages of
Protestants are valid regardless of who officiates ;
268 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
indeed, we feel that we have a greater regard for
the validity of these marriages than many Protes-
tants, since we consider them binding until death ."
Inquired the same Baptist paper some time
afterward : " Why does President Wilson have a
Catholic secretary? " to which Colonel Callahan
retorted :
" A similar question could be asked of me: `Why
does Mr. Callahan have a Baptist secretary? ' and
the same answer would apply, namely, secretaries
and other assistants are selected not on account
of their religion, but on their merits, as they
should be."
The Callahan committee never failed to send a
grateful letter to any non-Catholic clergyman or
editorial writer whenever such an individual gave
utterance to a sentiment friendly to the Catholic
church. The committee's report handed formal ac-
colades to Dr . Washington Gladden, Congrega-
tionalist ; Methodist Bishop Williams ; the Rev. J.
Faville, Congregationalist ; Dr. W. M. Walker,
Baptist ; Dr. D . M. Milner, Presbyterian ; and the
Rev. George A. Carstenson, Protestant Episco-
palian ; also to the Hartford Courant, Louisville
Evening Post, St. Louis Republic, Dallas News,
New York American, and Chicago Examiner.
Many Catholics felt that the Associated Press
BEGETTERS OF THE KLAN 269
was discriminating against them in its treatment of
news dispatches . Colonel Callahan told in the com-
mittee report of an interview he had with Edgar
T. Cutter, assistant manager of the A.P., who had
'very kindly agreed to see that no cause for com-
plaint on this score should arise in future . Mr. Cut-
ter seems to have told the colonel that the trouble
:lay with the churchmen themselves, who appeared,
like many other people, to believe the press serv-
ices and newspapers got their tips from the Ouija
'board and gathered their facts by telepathy. Colo-
nel Callahan warned all his co-religionists to be
diligent in reporting to the press every church
function from a sodality meeting to a eucharistic
congress.
The committee's second report, submitted a year
after the first, contained more of the same, coupled
with a recommendation that the committee's life be
prolonged and its funds increased . Unfortunately
for this hope, however, the compilers of the report
included therein the news that The Menace's cir-
culation had dropped from 1,500,000 to 500,000
copies per week in the year just past. The latest
Armageddon was patently entering its last stage .
The Callahan committee was thanked by the
Knights and returned to the ranks . This occurred
in August of 1916.
And, indeed, the mild storm was about over .
The World War was raging in Europe ; the Lusita-
2 70 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
nia had been sunk by a German U-boat having no
discoverable connection with the Pope ; the nation
was filled with the bellowings of pro-ally and pro-
German sympathizers ; our feet were tapping in
rhythm with the war drums and would soon go
marching to those drums ; the time had come again
to forget religious hatreds for hatreds that had
some basis in reason.
But the Ku Klux Klan of the twentieth century
had been begotten, nevertheless . It was the fruit
of the crossing of Guardians of Liberty, Menace,
Knights of Luther, with Knights of Columbus and
Catholic clerics . Its parturition could afford to
await the war's ending ; for elephantine was to be
that birth.
CHAPTER XXX
THE ERA OF THE KLAN
THE story of religious hates in this country here
enters its latest chapter ; not its last chapter, for
there will be wars of the sects in the future as in the
past - and a good thing, too - but its latest.
Largest and loudest of the agencies for the
propagation of envy, hatred and malice amongst
Christians in the United States after our armies'
triumphant return from the World War was the
order known as the Invisible Empire, Knights of
the Ku Klux Klan. For this reason the history of
the wars of the so-called godly in America from
1919 into 1928 is for all practical purposes the his-
tory of the Klan.
There would have been a Protestant-Catholic
conflict following the war in any event . The Klan
simply was first in the field with a sales talk appeal-
ing to the various forms of hatred that stirred in
bosoms on the Tiber's farther side.
We were demobilizing in 1919. Millions of us
had acquired the military state of mind, which pre-
fers direct and hard-boiled action to orderly and
legal procedures. We had lost but little blood in the
271
272 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
war, comparatively speaking. Many of us would
have been overjoyed to go on fighting .
The Protestant - meaning the evangelical -
churches had lately won their greatest political vic-
tory : the enactment of the eighteenth amendment
to the United States Constitution by a Congress
cowering under the bludgeons of the Anti-Saloon
League. Wartime prohibition had been in force for
a considerable time previous to the amendment's
taking effect.
American evangelicalism's insatiable desire to
compel people to be good was bearing its inevitable
fruit : more and more Americans were kicking over
the social and sexual conventions, going in for a
good time on this earth and devil take the hereafter,
and turning up at church only for christenings,
weddings and funerals. The Catholic church, on the
other hand, was hauling in converts by the netful
every day, gathering to itself more and more lands
and buildings and schools and printing presses, and,
most important of all, filling every one of its
churches at every mass, high or low. Had Protes-
tants not gone forth to battle, then justly could it
have been said that the blood of the Covenanters
and Orangemen was run thin into degenerate days .
Into this crackling field of social forces projected
himself William Joseph Simmons .
As every one now knows, Simmons gathered a
few choice comrades together atop Stone Moun-
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 2 73
tain, near Atlanta, Georgia, on Thanksgiving night
in 1915, and in the eery light of the Fiery Cross,
symbol of the order, administered to them the oath
of the Invisible Empire, Knights of the Ku Klux
Klan.
Simmons dreamed of a mighty and militant
lodge which should in some manner repeat and
outdo the noble deeds of the Ku Klux Klan of 1866,
organized by southern white men to blackjack the
carpet-bagger into decency and frighten fool Yan-
kee notions of equality out of the head of the negro .
Simmons himself had been a Methodist camp-
meeting shouter, a lodge organizer, a lodge joiner,
traveling salesman, and whatnot besides . His per-
sonal habits were unimpeachable, which was more
than could be said of some of the queer fish who
eventually wormed their way into the Imperial
Kioncilium and deposed him . His idealism was so
profound as to insure the new lodge's complete im-
potency for so long a time as he should remain
in supreme control of the aulic of the Imperial Wiz-
ard at the Imperial City of Atlanta.
The Klan's first five years equaled those of
the A.P.A. for innocuousness and obscurity . The
dreamy ex-divine, armed with all the pulling
power inherent in his order's weird-titled hier-
archy of Goblins and Giants, Klokards and Cyclops
and Kligrapps, was able to enroll not more than
five thousand members between 1915 and 1920,
2 74 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
while his followers did nothing more spectacular in
that period than to burn five negro churches in the
state of Georgia.
Growth began when William Joseph Simmons
met Edward Young Clarke. Clarke was an experi-
enced lodge organizer ; he knew the deep love which
the average American bears for a uniform ; he per-
ceived that, properly worked, Simmons's frater-
nity of the white sheets and the peaked masks
could be made a gold mine . Better still, Simmons as
if by inspiration had made provision for practically
every hate an American white Protestant Gentile
can feel and had nailed them all into the following
single paragraph of the Klan oath :
" I swear that I will most zealously and val-
iantly shield and preserve, by any and all justifiable
means and methods, the sacred constitutional rights
and privileges of free public schools, free speech,
free press, separation of church and state, liberty,
white supremacy, just laws, and the pursuit of
happiness, against any encroachment, of any na-
ture, by any person or persons, political party or
parties, religious sect or people, native, naturalized,
or foreign of any race, color, creed, lineage, or
tongue whatsoever."
Bound by this oath a Klansman could hate the
negroes if he lived down south, the Catholics in all
the cities, the foreigners in the industrial towns,
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 2 75
the I.W.W. in the West, the Jews in New York,
and the bootleggers and harlots of whom he was
not a personal friend anywhere .
Clarke speedily entered into a written contract
-with Simmons. The instrument was dated June 7,
1920. It made Clarke Imperial Kleagle, subject to
-the orders of Imperial Wizard Simmons ; but out of
every $1o initiation fee garnered from the patriots
about to be herded into the klaverns Clarke was to
receive $8, while Simmons was to draw a flat salary
of $75 a week. The panther, in a word, took pie crust
and gravy and meat, while the owl got the spoon
as his share of the treat. Clarke did agree to stand
the home offices' running expenses .
Immediately Clarke fired up his engines of lodge
organization and grapevine publicity, the Klan
sprang to life. Silent, menacing parades of hooded
and robed men became the order of the night in
southern towns. The negroes of Jacksonville, Flor-
ida, were warned against lawlessness at the polls
by one of these processions on October 30, 1920,
the Clarke-Simmons contract being then but four
and one-half months old . Anonymous and dread-
fully worded warnings of an impending crusade
against bootleggers and roadside petters appeared
in Anniston, Alabama, in December of that year .
A Ku Klux parade admonished the loafers of Co-
lumbus, Georgia, on - of all occasions - Christ-
mas day, 1920.
276 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
The Klan was not pre-eminently anti-Catholic
in the early stages of its rise to power . For this the
obvious reason was that it spread first through the
South, where there were few Catholics to hate .
Even so, it did what it could in its humble way with
the materials at hand by circulating a story that the
Catholics were secretly arming the negroes for an
eventual revolt against southern white supremacy.
When the Klan came to New York in 1921,
Mayor John F. Hylan went forth to give it battle.
Hylan's first crusade against the Klan was not
waged on any issue of religious complexion, but
because Hylan said New York had no room for
an organization which fostered racial antagonisms .
Incidentally, negroes are notoriously Republican in
politics-there were at that time about 90,000
negroes in New York City-and Hylan was a
Democratic mayor .
The Klan was by this time attaining to the dig-
nity of a National Menace in the eyes of many
excellent people. The New York World published
its famous exposure of the order in the spring of
192 r. One Henry P. Fry, who had joined the Klan
in Tennessee, had resigned and turned over his
knowledge of the inner circles to the World . The
Klan oaths were published, its hatreds for negro,
Jew, Catholic and foreigner broadcast in scream-
ing front-page spreads, several of its officials
charged with lewdness or lightness of finger . Every
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 277
searchlight available to the World was turned on
the smoke screens hurriedly thrown up by Sim-
mons, Clarke, and Clarke's lady friend, the Empress
Elizabeth Tyler. Net results of the exposure were
a circulation jump of ioo,ooo copies a day for the
World and a huge increase in membership for the
Klan, which made so much money that it was able
to take over Lanier University in Atlanta and to
build what it called an Imperial Palace for the
Wizard and his go-getting King Kleagle .
Whenever the Klan penetrated a community
where Roman Catholics were numerous, its hatred
turned upon them. And as Catholics were by now
numerous in every state except the traditionally
southern ones, nine-tenths of the Klan's political
fights and riots in the North and West were over
the religious issue . The arguments were of the good
old orthodox anti-papal variety, without a new
one to break the monotony or make a historian's
task interesting .
The Catholics were not slow to return the Klans-
men's fire. To Patrick, Cardinal (then Archbishop)
Hayes of New York appears to have fallen the
honor of hurling the first formal Catholic denun-
ciation at the new dragon's head . This he did on
October i6, 1921, at a meeting held by the Catholic
Laymen's League for Retreats and Social Services .
Achbishop Sebastian G . Messmer of Milwaukee,
however, was already agog, having begun an in-
2 78 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
quiry into the Klan's progress in his domain late in
the previous month.
Congress was investigating the Klan by the time
Archbishop Hayes thundered. Attorney-General
Harry M . Daugherty had caused Detective William
J. Burns to gather evidence in regard to the Klan,
which Daugherty laid before President Harding in
September, 1921 . The House Committee on Reso-
lutions conducted hearings during October, Sim-
mons being the most prominent of the numerous
witnesses who testified . It was decided that the
hearings should be discontinued when the informa-
tion was gleaned that the Klan had 12 6,ooo paid-up
members, more than $1,ooo,ooo, and a good chance
of sweeping the country as Know-Nothingism and
the A.P.A. had done aforetime .
Revolt against Clarke and Simmons began in the
fall of that year . Grand Goblin H. B . Terrell
yearned for the official head of Clarke . Clarke cap-
tured Terrell's head instead ; there were suits and
countersuits ; the upshot was a meeting at Phila-
delphia in December for the formation of an in-
dependent Klan, which was seldom heard from
afterward.
In August, 1922, the national board of the An-
cient Order of Hibernians decided that all good
lodge brothers must fight the Klan -as if they
were not already doing so by press and ballot and
boycott. The same summer saw the Knights of Co-
P & A. Photo.
DR. HIRAM WESLEY EVANS
IMPERIAL WIZARD, KNIGHTS OF THE KU KLUX KLAN
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 2 79
lumbus begin an organized anti-Klan campaign of
publicity and propaganda .
And some time in the late fall of 1922, Hiram
Wesley Evans of Dallas, Texas, became Imperial
Wizard. Simmons was retired with the title of
Emperor For Life .
Under Evans's leadership the Klan entered into
the third, and at this writing apparently the last,
phase of its earthly career . Simmons dreamed of
leading a band of twentieth-century American
knights, without fear and without reproach . Clarke
rounded up a crew of negro haters, harlot floggers,
Methodist and Baptist pastors, anti-Catholic
monomaniacs, bootleggers, peanut politicians, dry
agents and an indeterminate number of honest peo-
ple. Evans, dentist, thirty-second degree Mason,
he-man, go-getter, dealer in polysyllabic English,
led the order into state and national politics.
That the Klan was in politics, Evans for long
somewhat vehemently denied . He drew this fine
distinction in an article which the World's Work
published in January, 1928 :
" We do not maintain any shadow of a political
organization such as is able to get out the vote ;
we do not attempt to elect our members to office ;
we never ask our members to vote in any particular
way or for any particular men, and much less do we
attempt to ` deliver ' a vote. If the Klan vote is cast
28o THE WARS OF THE GODLY
solidly, as often happens, it is because we have
proved certain things to our members . We do not
even attempt to influence legislation, except on
points that indisputably fall under the principles
outlined.
" In other words, we are not 'in politics.' Our
only political activity is to inform and educate our
members about measures or the character of candi-
dates, and to show them in what way the funda-
mental principles of Americanism bear on any par-
ticular situation."
Of a man who can thus pithily describe the Ca-
tholicizing of the Protestant mind in matters
secular, apparently without knowing what he is
describing, one naturally desires to know more.
Perhaps the most luminous character sketch of Dr.
Evans in print is to be found in the Klan's official
magazine, the Kourier, for September, 1926, under
the title " The Man Every American Should Know
An Appreciation by the Editor." In this short but
masterly article, Dr. Evans is compared, in breath-
taking succession and quite favorably, with Jesus
the Christ, the prophets Moses and Jeremiah,
Savonarola, Abraham Lincoln and the apostle Paul,
and is in addition termed " the most average man
in America."
" His faith," the reader is advised, " is vocal, be-
ing alive. His faith is virile. It is idealistic ; there-
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 281
fore, unselfish . He wears himself out in body, and
deprives himself of that intense desire of all active
minds - the chance to study - for the purpose
of being a voice crying in the wilderness."
As if this were not enough to fill one man's every
earthly day,
" He is vitality personified, subjecting his body
to ordeals that would kill a man not made of iron,
and subjecting his brain to feats that would cause
mental fatigue in many another . He can wear out
a dozen men in a day. . . ."
All of which is no more fulsome or inept than the
things a parish priest with a couple of glasses of
wine under his belt will tell you about his ordinary,
or the printed encomiums a Catholic diocesan paper
will heap upon an archbishop or a visiting cardinal .
Evans began his much touted cleanup of the
graft-ridden Imperial Kloncilium immediately
upon his accession to power . A good deal of money
was diverted from the pockets of Giants and Gob-
lins to publicity and proselyting activities . Evans
began to write long articles and make long speeches .
These utterances were published by the Klan under
such titles as " The Klan Spiritual," " The Pub-
lic School Problem in America," " The Menace
of Modern Immigration," " The Attitude of the
Knights of the Ku Klux Klan Toward the Roman
282 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Catholic Hierarchy," and so on . One and all present
the spectacle of what happens when the high-
powered rationalizations of Madison Grant, Lo-
throp Stoddard, et al., are passed through the low-
powered but acquisitive mind of a Dallas hundred
per cent American. We forbear to quote from them
here. None contains a single political thought that
was not expressed in the Native American party's
Philadelphia Address of 1[845, digested in a previ-
ous chapter. Modern instances are injected, and the
ancient nativist ideas are retold in the high-flown
and sloppy style beloved of people who enjoy the
sound of words which they cannot understand and
hence do not feel themselves obligated to ponder
upon.
These endeavors of the Klan to become as re-
spectable as Rotary International or the Knights
of Columbus were handicapped somewhat by the
Mer Rouge, Louisiana, murders which shocked
the nation in the late fall of 1[922 . The story of the
kidnaping, torturing to death and sinking in Lake
La Fourche of two village cut-ups, by persons al-
leged to have belonged to the Morehouse Klan, has
been told with infinite detail by a well-nigh infinite
number of other writers. Religion did not enter
particularly into this double murder . No one was
hanged, and a Jew eventually became sheriff of
Morehouse.
In the same period the Rev . Dr. John Roach
Straton of Calvary Baptist church, the fundamen-
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 283
talist Vatican at New York City, was accused of
making his church a Klan recruiting station . Straton
had permitted the Rev . Oscar Haywood, a stroll-
ing evangelist, to use Calvary Baptist as his head-
quarters. Haywood was later found to be National
Klokard (lecturer) of the Klan . Mayor Hylan
again ordered war on the organization, whereupon
Straton ordered Haywood elsewhere . Announce-
ment that any city employee found to be a Klans-
man would lose his job was the administration's
chief contribution, aside from sky-splitting volumes
of wind, to this battle. A correspondent signing
himself Fair Play wrote to the New York Times
to demand an investigation of the Knights of Co-
lumbus - which was not held.
The Catholic hierarchy again became vocal
against the Klan in that winter of 1922-23 . Arch-
bishop Curley denounced it from Baltimore, Mon-
signor F. H. Wall besought the Knights of Colum-
bus anew to fight the reincarnation of the A .P.A.
Other prelates and priests trundled the big guns of
oratory into the field, and were still firing at inter-
vals when this volume went to press.
Herrin, Illinois, may as well be mentioned here
as at any other point in this chapter . The little
coal town, peopled by descendants of the pioneers
who settled Illinois and rotten with traditions out
of feudist times in America, was a damn-your-
enemy, kill-him-first hamlet from the beginning .
Prohibition made it a bootlegging center in addi-
284 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
tion to the several species of unsavory place it al-
ready was. Many Christians in Herrin, both Catho-
lic and Protestant, were of the most militant type
and quick on the draw. Shootings were periodical
and almost invariably fatal in Herrin . The most
noteworthy death was the violent one suffered by
S. Glenn Young, a dry crusader and gunman hired
by the Klan to reform Herrin. This widely ac-
claimed event took place on January 24, 1925 .
In the spring of 1923 State Senator James J.
Walker, later mayor of New York City, presented
his anti-Klan bill to the New York legislature,
which passed it after considerable debate . The bill,
which Governor Smith promptly signed, called for
the yearly filing by unincorporated associations of
their membership lists, by-laws and oaths . As the
Klan still technically kept its membership rolls a
dark secret, though every politician in the land
could name almost every Kluxer in his district, the
order was greatly excited and insulted by the pas-
sage of the Walker law. It evaded the enactment
with an agility worthy of a Roman Catholic arch-
bishop attempting to explain to a Protestant just
how it is that his sect does and yet does not regard
the marriage of a Catholic to a Protestant as valid .
In the course of its twistings and dodgings the Klan
became known in New York as Alpha Pi Sigma, an
incorporated fraternity and hence not amenable to
the Walker law.
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 285
Hearst's International magazine exposed the
Klan in the spring and summer of 1923, publishing
documents stolen by a Klan employee from the
Atlanta offices. The chief bit of shame flung out to
the breeze in this series of articles was evidence of
a vast and nonsensical Ku Klux plan to take over
the United States government bag and baggage
and operate the same for the benefit of white Prot-
estant native American Gentiles . The Klan tried
by injunction to stop publication of the exposures,
but lost the suit.
November, 1923, saw the removal of Klan na-
tional headquarters from Atlanta to Indianapolis,
where " Old Man " D. C. Stephenson ruled su-
preme as master of the Klan in the state of Indi-
ana. The order returned to the old home some
years later. On February 13, 1928, it was reported
that the Klan had leased a house, to be used as its
national headquarters, at 1723 Rhode Island Ave-
nue, W., Washington, D. C., as close as might be to
the lordly Dupont Circle .
At about the same time (November, 1923) Sena-
tor Oscar W. Underwood of Alabama imprudently
declared himself opposed to the Klan and every-
thing it stood for, with the result that the outraged
Methodists and Baptists of Alabama retired him
to private life after his Presidential boom went to
smash at the Democratic convention of 1924.
The D. C. Stephenson mentioned above was per-
286 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
haps the most picturesque character that ever spat
tobacco juice on a klavern floor . His dummy tele-
phone into which, for the edification of office call-
ers, he used to bellow orders to President Harding ;
the cream-colored airplane that bore him from the
skies into the middle of many a pop-eyed Klan
field meeting in rural Indiana ; his projected card
index system of espionage upon every soul in that
state ; his ambitions, his Klan-got riches, the damn-
ing secrets he held over the head of numberless In-
diana boodlemen - all this pomp and vanity caved
when he was placed on trial for the murder of
Madge Oberholtzer and was committed to the peni-
tentiary for life . Stephenson's story in full belongs
in a history of Indiana politics rather than in this
volume.
An estimate of the Klan's strength at the open-
ing of 1924 was made by Stanley Frost, an author-
ity on the order, for the Outlook. Mr. Frost cal-
culated that there were then a little less than
4,500,000 Ku Klux Klansmen in the United States,
and that the membership was divided approxi-
mately as follows :
Indiana, Ohio (each) 500,000
Texas 400,000
Oklahoma, Oregon, California, New
York (each) 200,000
Arkansas, Washington, Kansas, Mis-
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 287
souri, Michigan, Illinois, Ken-
tucky, West Virginia, Maryland,
New Jersey, Louisiana, Missis-
sippi, Alabama, Georgia, Florida,
Tennessee (each) . . . . 50,000 to 200,000
The most sensational victory ever won by either
party to the religious fight in America was the
placing upon the statute books of Oregon of the
famous Oregon school law. This the Oregon voters
did in the election of November, 1922 . The law
provided fines and/or jail sentences for any parent
or guardian of a child between the ages of eight and
sixteen years who did not send such child to a
school maintained by the state. Obviously this law,
if sustained, would kill all the parochial and private
elementary and high schools in Oregon . For thirty
months Catholicity the nation over saw nightly
a-stalk in America the ghosts of Henry VIII, Vic-
tor Emmanuel and Prince Otto von Bismarck . Then
the United States Supreme Court declared the Ore-
gon school law unconstitutional. Said the court in
part:
" The fundamental theory of liberty upon which
all governments in this Union repose excludes any
general power of the state to standardize its chil-
dren by forcing them to accept instruction from
public teachers only. The child is not the mere crea-
ture of the state ; those who nurture him and direct
288 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
his destiny have the right, coupled with the high
duty, to recognize and prepare him for additional
obligations."
Two Oregon institutions brought the test suit
which eventually killed this law : the Sisters of the
Holy Names of Jesus and Mary, and the non-
sectarian Hill Military Academy . Briefs amici
curio were filed by the North Pacific Union Con-
ference, Seventh Day Adventists, Domestic and
Foreign Missionary Society of the Protestant Epis-
copal Church, and the American Jewish Com-
mittee. Commented Nelson Collins, a Protestant
opponent of the Oregon school law writing in the
Catholic Commonweal :
" As a matter of fact the Ku Klux Klan had next
to nothing to do with the inception of the Oregon
school law." It was " the proud product of the Scot-
tish Rite Masons of the Southern Jurisdiction."
Similar laws were proposed twice in Michigan
and once in the state of Washington, but failed of
enactment.
The states wherein the Klan reached the peak of
its political power throughout its career to 1928
were Oregon, Oklahoma, Texas, Arkansas, Ala-
bama, Georgia, Indiana, Maine, Ohio, Colorado
and California. Its battles with " Ma " and " Pa "
Ferguson in Texas, J. C. Walton in Oklahoma, and
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 289
Ben B . Lindsey in Denver, would demand for their
adequate narration more space than is here avail-
able. The religious issue was only incidental to
these Klan crusades .
June, 1924, saw the bloodiest Klan riot in the
order's history from 1915 to 1928 . The fight was
occasioned by a Klan demonstration held at Lilly,
Pennsylvania. A terrific fight was had by the min-
ions of the Pope and the standard bearers of mili-
tant Protestantism, and four persons were killed .
Twenty-five Klansmen and four of their opponents
were later charged with murder . All but one were
convicted, at Evansburg, of unlawful assemblage
and affray, and sentenced to two years' imprison-
ment apiece.
The same month saw also the Democratic na-
tional convention at New York City, of which
more later.
Most prominent among several orders organized
by Catholics to fight the Klan with its own fire was
the Knights of the Flaming Circle, or Red Knights .
Any one not a Protestant, so the lodge's prospectus
stated, was eligible for membership . The Flaming
Circle was never strong outside Pennsylvania, Ohio
and West Virginia. Its noblest achievement in the
interest of peace on earth and good-will among men
was precipitation of the riot at Niles, Ohio, a week
before the 1924 national election. The Klan, desir-
ing to parade in Niles, sought a permit from Mayor
290 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
H. L. Kistler. Protest was registered by the Knights
of the Flaming Circle, shortly following which a
mysterious bomb wrecked Kistler's home . The
Klan duly paraded, and the Flaming Circleites
rushed the procession. Twelve were wounded. Gov-
ernor Donahey ordered state troops to Niles, and
himself took command. Investigation followed ;
104 were indicted ; ten of these pleaded guilty and
paid fines. All ten were anti-Klan sympathizers .
A series of Klan and anti-Klan riots disturbed
the peace of Massachusetts in the spring of 1923 .
The Klan insisted on parading or meeting publicly
in Northbridge, Berlin, Gardner, Clinton and else-
where. It is impossible to say who opens the festivi-
ties in almost any riot that occurs anywhere . But a
crowd of Klansmen in white robes and hoods con-
stitutes a splendid target for bricks and tomatoes,
while the average lodge brother in a uniform is too
self-conscious to be capable of starting a fight . The
inference to this writer seems inescapable that, in
almost every Klan riot, actual fighting is begun by
enemies of the Klan .
Indeed, this theory is strengthened by a brief
consideration of what went on prior to the final
reluctant grant of a permit by the Washington,
D. C., authorities for the famous Klan parade of
August 8, 192 5, through Pennsylvania Avenue . The
three groups of Americans most bitterly hated by
the Klan were unable to show themselves superior
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 291
to hatred. Far from it. Catholics, Jews and negroes
must needs shower President Coolidge, for weeks in
advance of the ceremony, with protests against any
countenancing of the parade, with masks or with-
out. The colored bloc held on longest of all : on the
very day of the parade, the harried chief executive
received a last telegraphic scream of anguish from
the Northeastern Federation of Colored Women's
Clubs.
To the mind not molded for reverence, there is
something funny about every religious squabble.
Probably because the most fanatic Protestant is
a shade less sophisticated than the most fanatic
Catholic, the truly superb feats of burlesquerie
generally come from the Protestant side of these
battles.
Of historic, perchance never-to-be-forgotten,
fame was the Rev. Dr. C. Lewis Fowler's discovery
of the true cause of the death, at San Francisco on
August 2, 1923, of President Warren Gamaliel
Harding. Dr. Fowler was editor-in-chief of the Klan
weekly known as The American Standard, which
was published at New York City during the Klan's
three best years . Fowler it was who made the
astounding disclosure that the President had not
died of pneumonia, as every one including so re-
spectable an authority as the Encyclopaedia Bri-
tannica supposed, but had been jollied into the
hereafter by hypnotic, telepathic thought waves
292 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
generated in the brains of Jesuit adepts . The writer
attempted to obtain from Dr . Fowler the story be-
hind this tremendous news beat ; but a letter ad-
dressed to him at Toronto, Ontario, where the Prot-
estant journal, the Fellowship Forum, supposed
him to be living, was returned as undeliverable .
Almost the equal of the Fowler scoop was the
North Manchester, Indiana, incident. In the fall
of 1923, some jokesmith circulated through this
town a report that the Pope was to dwell incognito
at North Manchester until such time as his resi-
dence at Washington should be ready for occu-
pancy and all arrangements completed for his tak-
ing over of the United States government . Further,
it was said, His Holiness would arrive at North
Manchester on the evening train. The nation's
need of a few more elementary schools, at least in
Indiana, was demonstrated by the gathering at the
railroad station that evening of fifteen hundred
persons to await the pontiff's arrival .
Christmastide in Salt Lake City, Utah, 11925,
brought with it an order from the city authorities
that Salvation Army and department store Santa
Clauses must operate without beards . The Klan
had lately been hit by an anti-mask ordinance, and
this was the method it chose for hitting back.
Numerous Methodist and Baptist pastors here
and there having been discovered functioning as
Cyclops's and Kleagles, Bishop Edwin H . Hughes
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 293
of the Illinois area, Methodist Episcopal church,
denounced the Klan in March, 1926. Dr. Hughes's
dictum was not followed by any wholesale public
withdrawal of Methodists from the Klan, nor did
that organization retract its published statement
that :
" It is not claimed or intended that the Klan be
a church, or that it take the place of the church,
but it is intended that the Klan be a powerful ad-
junct to the Protestant church ."
On July 17, 1926, the Rev. J. Frank Norris, pas-
tor of the First Baptist church of Fort Worth,
Texas, shot and killed D . E . Chipps. Chipps was a
Mason and a Shriner, but, Norris charged, a regu-
lar attendant at a Fort Worth Catholic church .
Norris was a veteran evangelist and anti-Catholic
crusader. Norris claimed that he shot in self-de-
fense, but asked that he be indicted for murder --
which unusual request the grand jury promptly
granted. His church stood solidly behind Norris,
and Fort Worth was split from top to bottom along
Catholic-Protestant lines of cleavage. A change of
venue was had, to Austin ; Norris told his story on
the witness stand ; the jury acquitted him amid the
hosannas of the Protestants and the wailings of the
Catholics.
On Memorial day, 192 7, various patriotic and
veterans' organizations paraded at Jamaica, in the
294 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
borough of Queens, Greater New York. The Ja-
maica Klan had announced its intention to be
among those present, and a place had been assigned
to it in the parade, whereupon the Knights of Co-
lumbus had charitably and patriotically stated that
they might see fit to withdraw from participation .
When the line of march formed, the Klan was there,
both Knights and Ladies, in full uniform but with
faces unmasked .
The Queens police forbade the Protestant order
to march. When the Klansmen and Klanswomen
insisted on marching, some of the police sought to
head off the leaders . A running fight was the result .
No one was seriously injured, with the possible ex-
ception of the American Eagle .
A grand jury called to consider the riot failed to
indict any one, but it did issue a statement blaming
the police, and sent the minutes of its proceedings
to Mayor James J. Walker. Two Klansmen were
later sentenced to the workhouse for thirty days
each as for disorderly conduct, judge Healy of
Special Sessions telling one of them:
" You are a thug and a loafer . You don't belong
in Queens county and were brought here as a
strong arm."
None of the police lost their jobs . The New York
City police force, as everybody knows, has for many
years been composed largely of Irishmen. The only
P. 1 A. Photo.
AN INCIDENT IN POLICE-KLAN RIOT, JAMAICA, L. I., N. Y., MEMORIAL DAY, 1927
THE ERA OF THE KLAN 295
conclusion to be drawn from the Norris murder
trial as contrasted with the Jamaica riot is con-
tained in the acid epigram of Prof . Leon Whipple,
to be found in The Story of Civil Liberty in the
United States, that " who has power has liberty."
Fanaticism went on the air early in 1926, with
the establishment of Radio Station WHAP in New
York. This station was supported by Mrs. Augusta
Stetson's schismatic Christian Science church, and
its star broadcaster was a Catholic-baiter named
Franklin Ford. His wares were the usual : alleged
Jesuit and priestly oaths, lore of ex-nun and ex-
priest, the fell designs of Rome upon Washington .
A zealous New York City judge barred Ford from
jury duty on the ground of his religious bias . The
appellate court restored his rights, remarking that
the United States Constitution extended its protec-
tion even to those who were unworthy of it.
WHAP's nightly stream of anti-Catholic vibra-
tions was combated by the Paulist Fathers' sta-
tion, WLWL. The Paulists did not enter into direct
controversies with Ford, but contented themselves
chiefly with the broadcasting of better music and
more varied speeches than rolled from the towers
of WHAP.
CHAPTER XXXI
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE
THE man who in 1928 seemed destined to put
religious warfare into the American background
for another generation began his growth to the pro-
portions of a national figure about the year 1920.
True enough, in November of that year Alfred E.
Smith failed of re-election as governor of New
York. But he came back in 1922 to roll up a record-
smashing majority over Nathan I . Miller. The peo-
ple of New York killed any anti-third-term tradi-
tion they may once have revered by sweeping him
back into office in 1924, and gave the thing all the
appearance of an established folkway by making
him governor a fourth time in 1926.
Meanwhile, Smith had grown to be the outstand-
ing Presidential possibility among the pitifully few
of those desirables whom the Democratic party
could boast of possessing. The Republican party
was in power at Washington during the period, and
right expertly did it sidestep all suggestions that it
commit itself nationally on the issue which occu-
pied most people's thoughts and filled the bulk of
the space allotted by the newspapers to matters
political.
20
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 297
This issue was federal prohibition, alleged to
have been effectuated on January 16, 1920, by
the eighteenth amendment to the Constitution .
That amendment's enactment has already been
alluded to.
Prohibition was a Protestant political achieve-
ment, and every adult in the United States knew it
to have been such. It was kicked and bullied
through Congress and the state legislatures by the
most powerful extra-party political organization in
American history, the Anti-Saloon League . This
group called itself " the church in action against the
saloon "- and " church " thus used meant Prot-
estant church. The Catholic church, by virtue of its
claim to dominion over moral questions, is necessa-
rily opposed to any morality statute promulgated
by the secular arm - except when it is privileged
to move the muscles of the secular arm . Its clergy,
with isolated exceptions, never had traffic with the
Anti-Saloon League, while its press was in full cry
against prohibition the moment the new law's fail-
ure was perceived to be a fact.
Smith was in creed a Roman Catholic . He was
also an anti-prohibitionist . New York repealed its
state dry enforcement law amid public rejoicing in
1923, and Smith signed the repealer bill . His po-
litical grooms attempted to bedizen him as a semi-
dry late in 192 7, but no one was fooled. He himself
declared in a granitic statement that he believed in
298 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
enforcement of all laws, but reserved the right to
work for the repeal of any law he did not like, let-
ting it be understood that he did not like the pro-
hibition law.
Prohibition, further, was an idea born and bred
in the country districts and small towns of the
United States . Westerville, Ohio, was the birth-
place and home town of the Anti-Saloon League .
Rural Methodist and Baptist pastors were the
worthies who, for the most part, consolidated the
League's hold on the nation . Prohibition's eventual
conquest of the United States was thus not only a
Protestant victory but also a victory of farm over
town, village over metropolis .
And Alfred E. Smith was a native son of the
world's largest metropolis and, in the eyes of the
rustics, its wickedest . He smoked good cigars and
played golf and belonged to clubs and, presumably,
drank cocktails. He might be, as he was, one of the
few statesmen alive in America, and as democratic
personally as Woodrow Wilson was reserved ; but
no matter. He was a city slicker, and so the village
Puritans would have none of him, calling him Alco-
hol Al and damning him from their pulpits for a
papist and a graduate of perfidious Tammany .
Yet, so violent was the nausea which prohibition
brought upon the nation, so destitute of leaders
was Smith's party, and so enormous was Smith's
personal popularity, that one fact became plainer
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 299
and plainer as time rolled out from 1920. That fact
was that, while the Republicans would probably
remain in power until 1932 anyway, the Demo-
crats could hope to elect a president before 1932
only if they would run Smith .
The rub came in the " solid " South. Not only
was the South solidly Democratic : it was solidly
dry so far as voting went, though its per capita con-
sumption of corn liquor was not known to have de-
creased since 1920 ; and in huge patches it was anti-
Catholic.
Smith as a Presidential candidate could hope to
carry more of the urban and industrial states than
could any other Democrat. But what would hap-
pen in the South should his party nominate Smith?
The Democrats shrank from the gamble at their
national convention in New York City in June,
1924. More than one hundred ballots failed to
squeeze a candidate out of the deadlock between
Smith and William G . McAdoo, pride of the farmers
and the drys and the Ku Kluxers . Compromise was
finally made upon John W. Davis.
Davis upset the last Democratic apple cart when,
shortly after his nomination, he denounced the
Klan by name. His party, by a majority of one
vote, had decided not to do this in its campaign
platform. Most of Davis's Catholics and wets had
long since deserted him for Calvin Coolidge (Re-
publican), who could point to a period of prosper-
300 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
ity as a reason why he should be re-elected, or for
LaFollette and Wheeler (Farmer-Labor), who were
promising the Year of Jubilo to the farmers and
the parlor Bolsheviks. Coolidge returned in tri-
umph to the White House . The Klan boasted with-
out interruption from 1924 to 1928 that it had
beaten Smith and saved America from rum, Ro-
manism and the city fellows .
" Our enemies, and some of our friends," ex-
plained Imperial Wizard Evans in the World's
Work for January, 1928, " charge or credit us with
the debacle of the last Democratic National Con-
vention, and with the defeat of Mr. Davis that fol-
lowed. There is some truth in the charge ; to be
sure, the Klan was not present as an organization
or with an organized force of delegates on the
floor of the convention, but it was present as an in-
tangible force. Delegates were afraid of what we
might do! "
With the approach of the 1928 Presidential cam-
paign, the same old problem presented itself to the
Democratic party. Smith had regained his once
menaced health through the years between, and
had greatly increased his national political stature
by attending strictly to his gubernatorial business
in New York. McAdoo formally announced in 1927
that he would not try again, later piping up in mid-
western and southern towns with several violently
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 301
dry speeches which gave rise to the suspicion that
he might have thought better of his withdrawal .
Other possible Democratic candidates were Sena-
tor James A. Reed of Missouri, a wet ; Senator
Thomas J. Walsh of Montana, a dry Catholic ;
Governor Albert C. Ritchie of Maryland, wet ; Sen-
ator Carter Glass of Virginia, dry; and Senator
J. Thomas Heflin of Alabama, anti-Catholic and
practically nothing else.
Most readers of these paragraphs will probably
guffaw at the inclusion of Heflin's name in this list .
But he was the darling of the Klan, by reason of
his doughty attacks on the Pope from the floor of
the United States Senate . And regardless of nu-
merous published estimates of the Klan's wan-
ing strength, the fact remained that nobody knew
whether the Klan was waning in 1928 or not . If the
case histories of the Native Americans, Know-
Nothings and A.P.A. could furnish any guide, the
Klan was about ready to enter its last illness ; but
the only generalization which invariably holds true
in politics is that you never can tell.
Heflin's intrepid assaults on the Roman menace
formed one of the features of the Senatorial circus
for many a long and weary day. Whenever an op-
portunity presented itself, the overfleshed, pink-
cheeked, canary-waistcoated Adonis from Alabama
would heave to his feet and bellow denunciation of
Catholicism into the surrounding air - which air
302 THE WARs OF THE GODLY
quickly cleared of almost all human occupancy
save the sound of that voice . Anti-Catholics every-
where swallowed whole cubic feet of the Heflin elo-
quence, patted their shirtfronts and cried for more,
Alabama klaverns and a Protestant minister here
and there fee'd the Senator for delivering his mes-
sage in person to his constituency . The only loud
and jovial retort he drew forth in many moons was
a set of resolutions introduced in the Alabama
House of Representatives by one Lee Edmundson
of Jefferson county in August, 192 7. The Edmund-
son lampoon jeered as follows :
" Whereas, the United States of America is in
grave danger of an attack by the Pope of Rome ;
" Whereas, except for the valor, bravery and
foresight of that great and eminent leader and
statesman, the Hon. J. Thomas Heflin, senior
United States Senator from Alabama, this country
would be defenseless against such an attack ;
" Whereas, the Hon. J. Thomas Heflin should
be placed in a position where he can defend this
country in person against the impending attack of
the Pope;
" Now, therefore, be it Resolved, by the House of
Representatives, that the President of the United
States be requested to appoint the Hon. J. Thomas
Heflin an admiral in the navy, and to place him in
command of the battleship West Virginia, the pride
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 303
of the navy, with orders to anchor at New York
harbor ;
" Resolved, further, that the new admiral be in-
structed, upon the appearance of the Pope on the
water, in the air, under the sea or in fancy, within
twelve miles of the Statue of Liberty, to fire un-
ceasingly for a period of twelve hours with i6-inch
shells loaded with the most deadly verbosity at the
command of the new admiral ;
" Resolved, further, that a copy of this resolution
be forwarded to the President of the Senate of the
United States, the Secretary of the Navy, and to
our most valiant and courageous protector and
statesman, the Hon. J. Thomas Heflin."
A day came when the Democrats in the Senate
determined to move en masse against Heflin . The
incident furnished some hint as to what might hap-
pen to the Ku Klux Klan at the Democratic na-
tional convention scheduled to meet at Houston,
Texas, in the following June .
Heflin rose in the Senate January 18, 1928, and
cut himself adrift once more on the roaring sea
of anti-papal eloquence . On this occasion the Sena-
tors did not flee as had been their wont . They sat,
stony faced and motionless in the Senate chamber.
Heflin's speech lasted two hours . His complaint this
time was that the Roman Catholic church had in-
spired publication of a set of documents, already
304 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
proved forgeries, which had appeared in William
Randolph Hearst's chain of newspapers, and in
which President Plutarco E . Calles of Mexico had
been alleged to have ordered paid to Heflin the sum
of $350,000 out of Mexican treasury funds for
alleged pro-Mexican activities in the United States .
The morsel of evidence which established the Cath-
olic church's guilt in Heflin's mind was the fact that
Mrs. Hearst was a Roman Catholic .
When the Senator from Alabama at last sat
down, the senior Senator from Arkansas arose . This
gentleman was Joseph T. Robinson, Democratic
party leader in the United States Senate . Speaking
in that capacity, Robinson damned Heflin for a
purveyor of religious bigotry and repudiated the
Heflin anti-Catholic opinions and utterances as un-
representative of Democratic feeling . Heflin leaped
to his feet with a roar like that of the bull of
Bashan.
" We are," he bellowed, " going to draw the line I
I will insist on it . The Senator from Arkansas can-
not remain leader of the Democrats and fight the
battle of the Roman Catholics every time it is
raised in this body without some expression from
a constitutional Democrat."
The line was forthwith drawn. Heflin formally
demanded Robinson's resignation as party leader .
A caucus of Democratic Senators the next morning
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 305
passed, with one dissenting vote, the following
resolution :
" Resolved, that this conference of Democratic
members of the Senate expresses its confidence in
the leadership of Senator Robinson and in his serv-
ice on the special committee named to investigate
the alleged Mexican secret documents ."
No word, be it noted, about religious bigotry ;
not a phrase which could be fairly construed as
friendly or hostile to either Klan or Catholic . Above
all, no rebuke to Heflin, who made another anti-
papal speech that afternoon. Politicians once more
had blown hot and blown cold while striving to
look as if blowing not at all.
But the pro-Smith press the nation over jumped
upon Heflin like a pack of starving wolves un-
leashed. Beyond question the choicest of all the
mulligans of abuse cooked up for him was the fol-
lowing signed editorial in the Newark (N. J.) Star-
Eagle:
" Heflin of Alabama again stopped all serious
work of the United States Senate for two hours on
Monday to give vent to further attack on Senator
Bruce of Maryland, Mayor Gunter of Montgom-
ery, Alabama, and on the newspaper publishers,
including the writer, who have denounced his un-
American utterances of religious bigotry.
306 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
" This self-seeker for publicity, who knows no
depth to his mad passion to get his name in print,
is willing to embarrass his own State of Alabama,
as well as the whole Country - this 212-pound
mental midget, the only thing smaller than his
mind being his heart, has not found out yet that the
United States Senate is a dignified, deliberative
body, preserving the principles and `traditions of
our Country, but evidently thinks it is a circus in
which there must be at least ONE CLOWN .
" He proves by his religious bigotry that he does
not understand the Declaration of Independence,
which gives all citizens the guarantee (sic) of life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness .
" But enough of this Heflin - for it will be the
same thing tomorrow and the day after - an
empty cab will drive up to the Senate and Heflin
will step out of it.
" Paul Block
" Publisher "
From all of which, the best guess concerning the
Democratic convention scheduled for the coming
June appeared in February, 1928, to be that the
Klan would there receive somewhat more of cour-
tesy than was accorded the A .P.A. at the Republi-
can convention of 1896, but that Smith would get
the nomination.
And yet . . . and yet the torrents of abuse
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 307
which were swashing over Heflin were bound to
produce some reaction . Many an American there is
who " doesn't take much stock in newspaper talk
anyhow." The religious fight was growing so bitter
that another compromise candidate seemed highly
unlikely. Might it be in Fate's crazy cards that
Heflin -but nay ; the notion were too absurd for
an instant's harboring, had it taken rise from any
game other than politics.
Meanwhile, the Republicans were privily con-
gratulating one another that the Klan had lived
thus long, as they hammered happily away at their
fences in anticipation of a renewal of their lease
of the White House.
Smith declared his sentiments regarding religion
and politics through the medium of the Atlantic
Monthly. Charles C. Marshall, Manhattan lawyer,
Episcopalian, and expert on church history and
canon law, propounded a series of questions to
Governor Smith in a solemn article which graced
the Atlantic for April, 192 7.
Marshall cited the Apostolic Letter of Pope Leo
XIII in which the orders of the Church of England
were declared void ; the Syllabus of Pius IX
(1864), which claimed practically every known
power for the Church of Rome and which American
Catholics have been explaining away ever since its
publication ; the action of Sacra Rota in annulling
the Episcopal marriage of Mrs. Jacques Balsan,
308 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
We Consuelo Vanderbilt, to the Duke of Marl-
borough ; and the demand of certain American
Catholics that the United States government
should intervene in the war which the Calles gov-
ernment had declared on the Catholic church in
Mexico.
Marshall then, in i,ooo or more of the most pon-
derous Anglican words the dictionary contains, put
to Governor Smith a series of questions which any
hackman could have asked in the three words,
" What the hell? "
To his aid in answering Marshall, Governor
Smith called the Rev. Father Francis P. Duffy,
chaplain of a famous New York regiment in the
World War, Manhattan priest of eminent repute .
The four-time governor of New York with this as-
sistance adduced further quotations from the Apos-
tolic Letter to show that Leo XIII had actually
preached Christian tolerance therein ; called on six
American Catholic apologists in turn to witness that
the famed Syllabus of 1864 had no dogmatic force ;
enlarged upon the fact that he had appointed to
the governor's cabinet thirteen Protestants as
against two Catholics and one Jew ; and reaffirmed
his loyalty to the Constitution, the separation of
church and state, the civil courts as against the
ecclesiastic, the public schools, the principle of non-
interference in other nations' internal affairs, the
brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of God .
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 309
Marshall came back with a lively rejoinder, but the
Atlantic declined to publish it, perhaps fearing that
the paper-hogging achievements of such oldtime
religious disputants as Hopkins and England and
Hughes were on the verge of being repeated.
As December, 1927, neared its close, the Na-
tional Council of Catholic Women protested by
official letter to President Coolidge the lifting of the
arms embargo against Mexico . The transatlantic
flyer and reigning American hero, Charles A . Lind-
bergh, was in Mexico at the time on the first leg of
a " good-will " tour, whatever that might mean, of
the Caribbean nations . This, and other friendly
gestures of Washington toward Mexico City, dis-
turbed the Catholic ladies no little .
" We earnestly request," they wrote the Presi-
dent, " that our own government take effective
steps to show before the world its disapproval of
such tyrannies [as President Calles' government
was wreaking on Catholics in its twentieth century
Kulturkampf] . . . . The intimate relations estab-
lished by our ambassador with President Calles, the
visit of the idol of the American people, Colonel
Lindbergh, are widely interpreted as condoning,
if not approving, the method by which the Calles
government seeks to destroy liberty of religion, lib-
erty of the press and liberty of education."
Whereupon, the stock of those who believed,
310 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
however unjustly, that some Catholics were capable
on occasion of dabbling in politics as Catholics,
took a decided rise .
This letter was a thin echo of the Knights of
Columbus' resolution, passed in convention at Phil-
adelphia in August, 1926, during the regime of
Supreme Knight James J . Flaherty, wherein Calles
was stated to have " insulted, degraded and ex-
pelled American citizens "-which was perfectly
true, but wherein also President Coolidge and the
State Department were called on to " put an end
to this ignominious contempt that has been shown
by President Calles for American appeals ." The
Knights of Columbus later disclaimed any desire
for armed intervention in Mexico .
Shortly before this book went to press, some one
discovered that Herbert C . Hoover and his wife
were married by a Catholic priest in 1889, though
both contracting parties were and remained Prot-
estants. Hoover was a leading Republican aspirant
for the Presidential nomination. The same story
was instrumental in beating Gen . John Charles
Fremont out of the election as Republican Presiden-
tial candidate in 1856. Should the Republicans be
dragged into a religious fight similar to that which
was marshaling Democrat against Democrat, the
1928 political show would be twice as entertaining
as has been expected by the most optimistic.
A week or so following the Hoover roorbach, the
Southern Methodist Education Association went
JUST BEFORE THE BATTLE 311
on record as opposed to the nomination of Smith
by the Democrats.
On February 14, 1928, circulars were distributed
in Washington, D. C., bearing the name of the Na-
tional Fundamental Protestant Christian Associa-
tion, and the message :
" Vote the ` Christian party ' ticket. For Presi-
dent, James Thomas Heflin of Alabama. For vice-
president, the Hon. Mabel Walker Willebrandt of
California. They do not choose to run for president
and vice-president, but we are going to draft them ."
And on Washington's birthday, 1928, by order
of Imperial Wizard Evans, the Ku Klux Klan
throughout the nation renounced the mask, which,
more than any other single affectation, had enraged
its enemies. The move plainly had two objects :
first, to squeeze additional funds into the order's
national treasury, since to discard his mask auto-
matically made a Klansman a member of the
Knights of the Great Forest, a new Klan degree,
and to become a Forest Knight automatically cost
$1 ; and, secondly, to arm -the Klan with as much
respectability as possible for its war on the Presi-
dential aspirations of Alfred E . Smith.
The Presidential campaign, in short, was in early
1928 sliding rapidly down the chutes into the arena
of unadulterated " religious " conflict - since the
prohibition issue was an essentially " religious "
one.
312 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
Should Alfred E. Smith win the Democratic nom-
ination and be elected President, " religious " war-
fare in the United States would probably be given a
quietus which would last until Catholics should be-
gin to swagger as had the Anti-Saloon League in the
years immediately following its conquest of the
nation.
Connoisseurs of " religious " conflict were lick-
ing their chops in the glad knowledge that anything
might happen and probably would .
The thoughtful, meditating upon, among numer-
ous like phenomena, the tyrannies of the Church of
Rome before Luther, of the Church of England in
Elizabeth's time, and of the religion that is Com-
munism in Soviet Russia, were thanking heaven
that the sects were free to fight one another in this
country. They were hoping, also, to be safely dead
and gone, albeit to hell, ere the prayers of Bishop
William T. Manning, Dr. S. Parkes Cadman and
others for a reunion of all Christian churches
should be answered.
What God thought about the mess, no one knew.
But that question was, after all, immaterial . When
Catholic fights Protestant, or vice versa, God is in
no way involved.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
BELL, EDWARD PRICE, Creed of the Klansmen. Chicago : The
Chicago Daily News Co., 1924.
BOHN, FRANK, The Ku Klux Klan Interpreted. Chicago:
American Journal o f Sociology, vol . 30, PP. 385-407
(19 2 5) .
BOUQUILLON, REv. THOS., Education : To Whom Does It
Belong? Baltimore : John Murphy & Co., 1895 .
BREWTON, WILLIAM W., Life of Thomas E. Watson. At-
lanta: William W. Brewton, 1926.
BROOKS, ERASTUS ; HUGHES, ARCHBISHOP JOHN, Contro-
versy Growing Out of the Speech of Senator Brooks on
the Church Property Bill. New York: De Witt &
Davenport, 1855.
BROWN, EvERIT ; STRAUSS, ALBERT, A Dictionary of Ameri-
can Politics. New York: A. L. Burt Co., 1907.
BROWN, GEORGE ALFRED, Harold the Klansman, a novel.
Kansas City, Mo .: Western Baptist Publishing Co.,
1923.
CARROLL, ARCHBISHOP JOHN, and others, An Address From
the Roman Catholics of America to George Washing-
ton, Esq., President of the United States. London: J. P.
Coghlan, 1790.
CHINIQUY, CHARLES PASCAL TELESPHORE, Fifty Years in
the Church o f Rome. New York : F. H. Revell Co.,
1886.
CLARK, WILLIAM LLOYD, The Story of a Stormy Life : An
Autobiography . Milan, Ill.: The Rail Splitter Press,
1924.
313
314 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
CONROY, REV. THOS. M., The Ku Klux Klan and the Ameri-
can Clergy. Philadelphia: Ecclesiastical Review, vol .
70,PP.47-59 (1924) .
COXE, RT. REV. A. CLEVELAND, The Jesuit Party in Ameri-
can Politics: Letters to Monsignor Satolli. Boston:
American Citizen Co., 1894.
CULBERTSON, ROSAMOND, Rosamond; or, a Narrative of the
Captivity and Sufferings of an American Female Under
the Popish Priests in the Island of Cuba, With a Full
Disclosure of Their Manners and Customs. New York:
Leavitt, Lord & Co., 1836 .
CURRY, LEROY A., The Ku Klux Klan Under the Search-
light. Kansas City, Mo. : Western Baptist Publishing
Co., 1924.
DESMOND, HUMPHREY J., The A.P.A. Movement. Wash-
ington : New Century Press, 1912 .
DESMOND, HUMPHREY J., The Know-Nothing Party, A
Sketch. Washington: New Century Press, 1904.
DE WEES, F. P., The Molly Maguires : The Origin, Growth
and Character of the Organization. Philadelphia: J. B.
Lippincott & Co ., 1877.
ELLIOTT, NATHAN, Ed., Debates in the Several State Con-
ventions on the Adoption of the Federal Constitution,
as Recommended by the General Convention at Phila-
delphia in 1787, Together With the Journal of the
Federal. Convention, Luther Martin's Letter, Yates'
Minutes, Congressional Opinions, Virginia and Ken-
tucky Resolutions of 1798 and 1799, and Other Illus-
trations of the Constitution . (2d Ed.) Philadelphia:
J. B. Lippincott & Co ., 1881.
ENGLAND, BISHOP JOHN ; FULLER, REV. RICHARD, Letters
Concerning the Roman Chancery . Baltimore : F. Lucas,
Jr., 1 839.
FLOWER, B . 0., Compiler, Story of the Menace Trial. Au-
rora, Mo. : United States Publishing Co ., 1916.
BIBLIOGRAPHY 315
FROST, STANLEY, The Challenge of the Klan . Indianapolis:
Bobbs-Merrill Co., 1924.
FRY, HENRY P., The Modern Ku Klux Klan, Boston: Small,
Maynard & Co., 1922.
FULTON, REV. J. D., Romanists Not the Fit Educators of
American Youth . New York: W. H. Robertson, circa
1896.
GLADDEN, REV. WASHINGTON, The Anti-Catholic Crusade .
New York: The Century Magazine, March, 1894.
GRAHAm, J. E., Anti-Catholic Prejudice, Ancient and Mod-
ern. Philadelphia: Ecclesiastical Review, Vol. 53, PP.
282-298 (1915) .
GUILDAY, REV. PETER, Life and Times of John Carroll,
Archbishop of Baltimore, 1735-1815. New York: The
Encyclopedia Press, 1922 .
HASsARD, J. R. G., Life of the Most Reverend John Hughes .
New York : D. Appleton & Co., 1866.
HAwKINS, DEXTER A., Archbishop Purcell Outdone? The
Roman Catholic Church in New York City, and Pub-
lic Land and Public Money . New York: Phillips &
Hunt, 188o.
HOBART, RT. REV. JOHN HENRY, The Principles of the
Churchman Stated and Explained, in Distinction from
the Corruptions of the Church of Rome, and from the
Errors of Certain Protestant Sects. New York : Prot-
estant Episcopal Tract Society, 1837.
HOGAN, WILLIAm, Popery, As It Was and Is ; Auricular Con-
fession and Popish Nunneries . Hartford : S. Andrus &
Son, 1847 .
HOPKINS, RT. REV. JOHN H., " The End of Controversy "
Controverted . New York: Pudney & Russell, 1854.
HUGHES, REV. JOHN; BRECKINRIDGE, REV. JOHN, Contro-
versy on the Subject, "Is the Protestant Religion the
Religion o f Christ? " Philadelphia: Eugene Cummis-
key, 1833
316 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
IRELAND, ARCHBISHOP JOHN, of St. Paul, The Church and
Modern Society . Chicago & New York : D. H. McBride
& Co., 1897.
KEHOE, LAWRENCE, Ed., Complete Works of the Most
Reverend John Hughes. New York : Lawrence Kehoe,
1866.
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS COMMISSION ON RELIGIOUS PREJU-
DICES, Reports . Davenport : Supreme Council, Knights
of Columbus, 1915, 1916 .
KUHN, I. N., Danger Ahead-Stop! Look! Listen! Colum-
bus, Kas. : Columbus Book Association, 1927.
LYNCH, DENIS TILDEN, "Boss" Tweed. New York: Boni
& Liveright, 1927 .
MECKLIN, JOHN M., The Ku Klux Klan : A Study of the
American Mind. New York: Harcourt, Brace & Co.,
1924.
MONK, MARIA, Awful Disclosures of Maria Monk . New
York: Howe & Bates, 1835 .
MORSE, SAMUEL F. B., Foreign Conspiracy Against the
Liberties o f the United States . New York : Leavitt,
Lord & Co., 1835.
MYERS, GUSTAVUS, The History of Tammany Hall. New
York: Boni & Liveright, 1917.
NATIVE AMERICAN, A, Young Sam. New York: American
Family Publication Establishment, 1855 .
PHELPS, BRUCE MALCOLM, Compiler, Menace Cartoons.
Aurora, Mo .: United States Publishing Co., 1914.
PITMAN, BENJAMIN, Recorder to the Military Commission,
The Trials for Treason at Indianapolis, Disclosing the
Plans for Establishing a Northwestern Confederacy.
Cincinnati: Moore, Wilstach & Baldwin, 1865.
ROGERS, JOHN, The Murders of Mer Rouge . St. Louis:
Security Publishing Co., 1923 .
SARGENT, KATE, The Catholic Hierarchy in Massachusetts .
New York : The Forum, October, November 1925 .
BIBLIOGRAPHY 317
SAXON, WILLIAM ANDREW, Knight Vale o f the K.K.K. -
Does She Still Wave? a novel. Columbus, 0. : Patriot
Publishing Co., 1924.
Scisco, Louis Dow, Political Nativism in New York State .
New York : Columbia University Studies in History,
Economics and Public Law, vol . 13 (1901) .
SHEA, JOHN GILMARY, History o f the Catholic Church in
the United States, 1521-1866. Akron, New York &
Chicago : D . H. McBride & Co., 1892.
SHUSTER, GEORGE N., The Catholic Spirit in America. New
York: Lincoln MacVeagh, The Dial Press, 1927 .
SMUCKER, S . M. Life of Col. John Charles Fremont . New
York & Auburn: Miller, Orton & Mulligan, 1856 .
STANTON, E . F., Christ and Other Klansmen . Kansas City,
Mo. : Stanton & Harper, 1924 .
STEVENS, ALBERT C., The Cyclopaedia of Fraternities . New
York: E. B. Treat & Co., 1907 .
SULLIVAN, MARK: Our Times: America Finding Herself .
New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1927.
TIGHE, REV. J. J., The A .P.A . New York : D. P. Murphy,
Jr., 1894.
TISDALE, W. S ., Know-Nothing Almanac and True Ameri-
cans' Manual for 2856. New York: De Witt & Daven-
port, 1856.
TUCKER, HowARD A., Governor Walton's War on the Ku
Klux Klan. Oklahoma City: Southwest Publishing Co .,
1923.
TusKA, BENJAMIN, Know-Nothingism in Baltimore. Wash-
ington: Catholic Historical Review, July, 1925.
WALSH, PATRICK, Civil and Religious Liberty ; or, Mr.
Walsh and the A .P.A . Augusta, Ga . : Chronicle Job
Printing Co., 1896.
WHEATLEY, REV . RICHARD, The American Protective Asso-
ciation. New York: Harper's Weekly, vol. 38 (1894) .
WHIPPLE, LEON, The Story of Civil Liberty in the United
318 THE WARS OF THE GODLY
States. New York: Vanguard Press, American Civil
Liberties Union, 1927 .
WHITE, REV. J. G., An Infamous Dynamite Roman Catholic
Conspiracy Detected and Exposedl Stanford, Ill.: Rev.
J. G. White, 1877.
WILL, ALLEN SINCLAIR, Life of Cardinal Gibbons, Arch-
bishop of Baltimore. New York : E. P. Dutton & Co.,
1922.
WILLIAMS, MICHAEL, The Roman Catholic Church-An
American Institution . New York : The Forum. March,
1925.
WISE, BARTON H., Life of Henry A . Wise of Virginia. New
York: The MacMillan Co ., 1899 .
WISE, HENRY A., Life and Death o f Sam in Virginia. Rich-
mond: A. Morris, 1856.
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA (13th Ed., New York, 1926)
on the major Christian denominations in the United
States; " Federalist Party ; " " Ireland ; " " Knights of
the Golden Circle; " " Maryland ; " " Molly Ma-
guires ; " " New York ; " " Tandy, James Napper ; "
" Tone, Theobald Wolfe ; " " Vatican Council; " " Vin-
land ; " etc., etc.
CATHOLIC ENCYCLOPAEDIA (New York, 1912) on " Know-
Nothingism ; " " Liguori, St . Alphonsus ; " " Schools; "
etc.
NEW YORK TIMES INDEX, 1915-1927 inc.
Files or Single issues of the Commonweal, America, The
New Menace, the Rail Splitter, the Kourier; and nu-
merous special articles in magazines of general circula-
tion 1920-'28.
Pamphlets issued by Knights of the Ku Klux Klan, Knights
of Columbus, National Catholic Welfare Conference .
