{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__lambert___a_general_survey_of_psychical_phenomena.pdf","mytitle":"A General Survey Of Psychical Phenomena","mylang":"de"}
A GENERAL SURVEY
OF
PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
BY
HELEN C. LAMBERT
foreword by
STANLEY DE BRATH
NEW YORK
1928
A GENERAL SURVEY OP
PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Copyright, 1928
by
Helen C. Lambert
Made in the United States of America
Courtesy of Mr. Stanley de Brain
PLATE I
Psychic Photograph
"Extra," Letty Hyde, died November I, 1921. Photograph taken Sep
tember, 1924. Sitters: Left to right, Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., Miss Scatcherd
and Stanley De Brath. Mediums, William Hope and Mrs. Buxton. Plates
specially marked and packet taped and double-sealed by Imperial Dry Plate Co.
Development by S. De Brath, M.Inst.C.E., who certifies that neither medium
touched plate at any time. "Extra" recognised as Letty Hyde by her father,
mother, and three brothers and sister. The portrait was cut out and shown
without comment, they not being spiritualists. It is as she looked in her last
illness. This is the photograph certified as "indubitable evidence" by Sir
William Barrett.
332299
.L17
To
BARON PROCTOR SMITH
i 863-1 893
From his "Kid Sister"
"The materialist often refers to the tendency of one
class of his opponents to put aside law and reason and
fall back upon faith and miracle; but if ever there was
an appeal to the miraculous it is found in the belief
that matter, the slave, created mind, the master!"
L. W. Rogers.
FOREWORD
hen the author of this book (whom I have not yet
™ ™
the pleasure of knowing personally) paid me the
great, and I fear unmerited, compliment of asking me
through a friend to write a preface to
it,
I
suggested that
a
name better known than mine might be more useful.
But
if
good will can compensate for other deficiencies
that
is
certainly not lacking.
Having now read the book,
I
can unhesitatingly say
that no one could be more appreciative of its value.
Professor Hans Driesch, LL.D., M.D., the distin
guished physiologist who holds the Chair of Philosophy
in the University of Leipsic, has stated in an article
"On the Biological Setting of Physical Phenomena" {The
Quest, July, 1924), "that the actuality of psychical phe
nomena
is
doubted today only by the incorrigible dog
matist."
But despite the vast amount of evidence recorded in
the Proceedings of the American and English S. P. R., and
those of the Paris Institute, in many recent books, and
the (now) frequent, but very ignorant allusions in the
newspaper press, the real nature of such phenomena
is
relatively little known. This has been due to three
main causes: (1) the reluctance of men trained in normal
science to face abnormal facts; (2) the Press Campaigns
of ridicule, abuse, and studied silence; and, (3) the con
stant allegations of fraud or illusion even when laboratory
FOREWORD
conditions have been so guarded and so detailed as to
make fraud or illusion impossible.
History shows that even in the case of normal and
verifiable physical facts involving a departure from
habitual modes of thought, a period of two generations
usually elapses between the first verification and the
general acceptance. Copernicus published his Treatise
in a.d. 1540. It remained in abeyance till Galileo took
it up in 1613; and showed in his telescope that the moon
is a sphere, and established the chief laws of gravitation.
The professors of Padua refused even to look through
the instrument, and his views were condemned by Cath
olics and Reformers alike. Curiously enough another
period of 73 years elapsed before Newton published the
Principles in 1686, in which the gravitational explanation
of planetary motion was mathematically demonstrated.
Even with the mathematical support, this took close on
70 years to obtain general recognition, and the opposi
tion he had to face was so bitter that he nearly came to
the resolution to publish nothing more; "for," said he,
"I see that a man must either resolve to put out nothing
new, or become a slave to defend it." Harvey's dis
covery of the circulation of the blood, and Lyell's Elements
of Geology had a similar, though shorter, record of opposi
tion; and Darwin's Origin of Species, published in 1859,
has not even yet, as a recent trial has reminded us,
passed into uncontroverted acceptance.
There is therefore no cause for surprise that proofs of
supernormal phenomena however complete and cogent,
should still be met with ridicule and denial by all except
(vi)
FOREWORD
those who have taken the trouble to look closely into
them by personal experiment pr by study of the works
of the distinguished men, such as Dr. A. R. Wallace,
O.M., Professor Crookes, F.R.S., Sir Wm. Barrett, F.R.S.,
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Professor Hyslo'p, Professor
Richet, Professor Morselli, Professor Ochorowicz, Dr.
von Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. Geley, Dr. Osty, and others
who, after prolonged and sceptical experiment have not
hesitated to face the obloquy which invariably attends
those who devote themselves to the discovery of new
truths.
But at the present time —now 77 years since the
Hydesville happenings —the facts have so forced them
selves on public notice despite continued efforts to sup
press them, that a very large number of persons are
exceedingly perplexed. Such books as this, by compe
tent, restrained, and cautious investigators, who have
not only had personal experience of leading phenomena;
but have studied the classical works on the subject and
drawn legitimate inferences from them, are of the greatest
possible value. As a result of imperfectly understood
evolutionary theory and materialistic hypotheses in gen
eral, there can be no doubt whatever that very large
numbers of persons have come to disbelieve in the soul
as anything more than "a name for the sum of the
functions of organic life," and therefore consider sur
vival of bodily death a mere superstition. .
'
Whether consciously or not, this materialistic outlook
destroys all basis for morality except such elementary
conventions as are needful to hold society together at
tvii)
FOREWORD
all; and even these conventions are menaced. Persons
with this outlook are impenetrable to any evidence but
that of physical phenomena, which, whether trivial or
not, reveal the action of intelligence directing physical
energies to produce definite and permanent results. In
addition to such physical results, which bear about the
same relation to metapsychic science as the twitch of
Galvani's dead frog's leg bears to electrical science, the
mental phenomena reveal latent human faculties most
strangely independent of Time and Space.
Psycho-cognition of events happening sometimes at
great distances, and of other events in the remote past
or in the near future, have taken place so frequently
that they amount to verification of a faculty that Professor
Richet calls Cryptesthesia —a hidden sensitiveness.
In the preface to his Treatise which is the outcome of
thirty years careful experiment and sceptical analysis,
he gives his reasons for considering that the facts should
be taken as the basis of a new science —Metapsychics.
He says:
"The fundamental phenomena of this new science can
be summed up in three sentences.
i—Cryptesthesia (the lucidity of former writers) is a
faculty of cognition that differs from the normal
sensorial faculties.
i—Telekinesis is a mechanical action that differs from all
known mechanical action, being exercised at a dis
tance and without contact on persons or objects
under certain determinate conditions.
3
—Ectoplasm (the materialization of former writers) is
{
viii )
FOREWORD
the formation of divers objects, which in most
cases seem to emerge from a human body and take
on the semblance of material realities—clothing,
veils, and living bodies.
"These make up the whole of Metapsychics. It seems
to me that to admit this much is to admit a great deal.
To go further is to go beyond the present limits of science.
I do however claim that science, strict and inflexible
science, ought to admit these three strange phenomena
that it has, up to the present, refused to recognize."
This is the scientific aspect, and it has already had
far-reaching effects on official physiology and psychology.
But still more important are the philosophical aspects.
Alfred Russell Wallace, the co-discoverer with Darwin
of evolutionary law, investigated a branch of the subject
for which the world is now prepared. In his World of
Life he showed that the "tendency to vary" in organic
beings which Darwin took as simple experimental fact,
has a psychic cause, and he deduced two great con
clusions —that the general tendency of evolution from
good to better is not accidental but purposive; and that
the truly human evolution is the development of a
spiritual being fit to survive bodily death.
With the enlarged idea of the Divine and Omnipresent
Creative Power, implied by evolution in contrast with the
limited and anthropomorphic representations of that
Power that necessarily belong to pre-Copernican and
pre-Darwinian notions, has come the need for scientific
proof of ancient intuitive perceptions, involving a re
statement of the essential truths they contain.
fix}
FOREWORD
It is a new way of thinking induced by the recognition
that there are latent in humanity powers of the soul of
which the normal senses are but the adaptations to ma
terial, spatial, and temporal conditions. Many are com
ing to suspect that these powers, partially and sporadi
cally manifest under material conditions, are normal to
the discarnate state, and that they pertain to that world
of causative realities designated by Plato Noumena —
mental realities, in contrast with Phenomena —physical
realities.
The real proofs that carry conviction go far beyond the
psychological experiments that establish their elementary
forms. This proof consists in the complete harmony
with the new physics of the Ether, with the actual
history of the Bible, with past phases of history
and philosophy, and with the ethical solution of present-
day problems produced by materialistic contention be
tween the "Haves" and the "Have-nots" —the one
clinging to a selfish enjoyment of material riches and
the others desiring those riches as the only means of
happiness.
Under such a mode of thought it is quite clear why
a great development of physical and natural science deal
ing entirely with material facts, was necessary to clear
away obsolete forms of belief before the essence under
lying those forms could be manifest. Agnosticism with
regard to causes was pre-requisite to the discovery of
spiritual causation and to the perception that all social
and political events are the outcome of the mentalities
that produce them. Nothing is fated.
FOREWORD
The papers contributed to the Journal of the American
S. P. R. by the authoress show that she is quite con
versant with these higher developments and implications
of metapsychic science and philosophy which necessarily
lie outside the simple aim she has prescribed for herself
in the pages here following, which give to thoughtful
minds ample justification for the wide interest excited
by the subjects treated, and should open to many the
gates of an unknown realm.
This brief foreword may be concluded by some questions
put by me to a friend in the Unseen by the same methods
as are hereinafter described. The answers throw a side
light on the story of the Emerald Ring.
Q. I have just read the account of the restoration of
the ring through the guide who traced it.
A. An unusual occupation for a guide.
Q. It seems perfectly authentic. I should like to have
your more extended comment. I am not sure he was a
"guide," but was certainly a very frequent communicator
by writing.
A. Ah, I do not think he could have been: they are
usually more engrossed in less material things, though
this may have been a special case; he was probably a
spirit still carrying on work he did on earth.
Q. Very likely. You mean that a guide is one who is
concerned with the personal growth of the guided, not
with material possessions?
A. Most decidedly, and a guide who saw, or rather,
felt, his charge fretting unduly over a trinket or anything
of that kind would not concern himself about finding it,
{xi}
FOREWORD
but in winning the mind back to real things.1 But as
I said, this may be a special case.
I conclude with my thanks to the author for the
privilege of recording my warm appreciation of the book,
and my cordial hopes for its success.
Stanley De Brath.
"The communicator was unaware that the avowed object in recovering
the ring was, not to give me pleasure, but to offer convincing evidence to those
who read our record. As it happens, I believe it was this incident which, more
than the report on Palladino, finally convinced Dr. Hyslop of the reality of
physical phenomena. (See letter, Page 72.)
(xii J
INTRODUCTION
"II est d'autant plus important a etablir, ce fait, que
mille faits negatifs ne prouvent rien contre un seul fait
positif."
'his little book is not written with the idea of offering
anything original in theory or analysis. It is not a
special effort to convince the sceptic. It is intended
merely as an elementary survey for laymen; an outline
of the various types of phenomena and what has been
learned about them.
Many persons experiment without preliminary reading
or knowledge of the conditions imposed upon psychical
manifestations. Some are not deeply enough interested
for extensive reading; others have neither the time nor
can they readily obtain the various technical works whose
authors are acknowledged authorities. Some might read,
but do not know just how to begin a profitable course of
study. For the last I shall make foot-note references to
books which are comprehensive as to detailed incident
and analysis.
This survey is especially for those who lack the time
for extensive reading yet who wish to acquire an ele
mentary understanding of what has been learned about
psychical phenomena. Hardly a week goes by that some
one does not question me on this subject. It has been
suggested that as a layman I might understand the
Richet.
{
xiii )
INTRODUCTION
attitude of mind of other laymen who have read and
experimented less than I; that perhaps I might realise
even better than one with deeper knowledge, what most
puzzles the novice. The average scientist does not appre
hend how few lay minds grasp the rudiments of psychol
ogy. I meet college-men to whom the subconscious is
only a name. I am often asked if I "
believe in telepathy,"
which I had supposed was one of the things taken for
granted. The writer on Psychical Research usually as
sumes a certain amount of knowledge on the part of his
reader; but I often meet very intelligent people who do
not understand the simplest terms used in this connec
tion, and whose ideas of the subject are, unfortunately,
only gleaned from the newspapers.
It is easy to suggest a course of reading; but when I
am requested to explain "all about psychical phenomena"
I am much embarrassed. It must first be explained that
no one knows all about psychical phenomena; next, that
although I myself am only a student, even the little
which I do know cannot be told intelligibly in a day.
If one has a patient listener it is not difficult to give a
general idea of a few important facts; but many are so
eager that they cannot wait to have one point made
clear before going on to another, which impatience results
in misunderstanding and hopeless confusion. By this I
do not mean that the inquirers lack intelligence or that
they are not sincere in wishing to learn; simply that they
have no conception of the scope of the subject and
really think that it tan. be explained, and by a layman
like myself, over a cup of tea. It grieves me to fail them
{xiv}
INTRODUCTION
because I know that in spite of my limited know
ledge there is much that I could tell which might
save them unhappiness. It troubles me to know that
many people lose hope, simply through lack of an elemen
tary understanding of the conditions under which experi
ments are made. If I can help a few of them to avoid the
bitter disillusionment and loss of faith that inevitably
result from over-credulity, I shall be very happy. If
people could be made to understand that one authentic
message in a lifetime outweighs the false ones of years,
they might not become discouraged. It is difficult to
cling to this truth. Many disappointments tend to dim
the memory of the one shining incident, but that incident
should be enough. Enough to have had one ray of light
sufficiently illuminating to convince us that communica
tion is possible and that survival is assured. "We have
been witnesses of unknown marvels and participators in
the Super-Conscious powers, each one of us, at least once
in the course of our days," writes Jules Bois. "Alasl
Our humdrum life seizes us again. We forget because we
yield to the temptation to forget, and we doubt.—Little
by little, that which was and is supreme reality fades
away into a delusion, and the actual delusion becomes
the unique reality. But such is not the conclusion drawn
by the man of character to whom this experience did not
come in vain. To him the revelation was not a surprise,
because he had long been prepared to receive it. Even
though that experience should be granted him but rarely,
or but once, he holds to
it,
and will never be wholly
severed from it. The vision, for its part, will be faithful
[xv]
INTRODUCTION
to him; the vision, which is a power risen within him,
maintained and fed by perseverance and faith."
My pamphlet, Elements of Psychical Phenomena, was
written in 1920 at the request of a little group of Yale
students who were in the habit of coming to me with
questions during their brief visits to New York. So
much has been learned since that time that it is in need
of revision and it has been suggested that a second part
be added giving personal experiences which serve to
illustrate a few types of phenomena. No attempt is
made to give a history of psychical research.1 For this
the reader is referred to such authorities as F. W. H.
Myers, Prof. Richet, and others. But many who do not
care to read detailed records of the research of many
years may be interested in a brief outline of some of
the more important results of this work.
Part I of this book consists of Elements of Psychical
Phenomena, revised in order to bring it up to date. Part
II contains abstracts of incidents in my personal record,
a chapter on Psychic Photography, and a chapter on
Psychic Healing and Obsession. Signatures of witnesses
were obtained immediately after the occurrence of the
incidents in Part II. I have the names of seventeen
persons testifying to the reality of what took place.
Several of these people were interviewed and questioned
1 The Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death, F. W. H. Myers.
Longmans, Green & Co., New York, 1904.
Traiti de Mitapsychique, Charles Richet. Felix Alcan, Paris, 1921.
Same book— Thirty Years of Psychical Research, Richet, trans, by Stanley
De Brath. Macmillan Co., New York, 1923.
Cosmic Relations and Immortality, Henry Holt. Houghton Mifflin Co.,
Boston and New York, 1919.
{xvi J
INTRODUCTION
by Dr. Hyslop (Secretary of the American Society for
Psychical Research) not long after they had witnessed
the events. The list includes the names of two physi
cians prominent on the staffs of large hospitals, a
Roman Catholic priest, well-known business-men, and
other persons of intelligence and education. All were
willing that their identity should be known to Dr. Hyslop,
and some gave me permission to use their names for
publication.
Dr. Hyslop, a friend of the family, visited us twice for
several days at a time while Mr. Hannegan, the medium
referred to in my record, was with us; they met several
times afterwards. Professor Richet (of the Faculte de
Medecine, Paris) also met Mr. Hannegan several times
while we were in Paris; and during the winter and spring
of 1909 which we spent in Geneva Professor Flournoy
(of the Institute of Geneva) saw him frequently. Mr.
Hannegan did nothing for these men by way of demon
stration beyond a little automatic writing. I was in
bad health at the time, and it is a curious fact that he
seemed to dread physical manifestations except when I
was with him. However, they were greatly interested in
my record, and asked many questions concerning it. The
three incidents of materialisation of blood (Part II)
particularly interested Prof. Flournoy. When I met him
he had abandoned the spiritistic hypothesis but his
interest in phenomena was as keen as ever. An inter
national congress of psychologists was held in Geneva
while Mr. Hannegan, my son and I were there in 1909.
Prof. Flournoy asked me to bring Mr. Hannegan for tea
{
xvii J
INTRODUCTION
and invited a number of the delegates who were interested
in psychical research. They were all much interested in
the incidents which I mention and which Prof. Flournoy
asked me to relate. While they held various opinions as
to the explanation, none seemed to doubt my statements
as to the facts. I had been introduced by Dr. Hyslop to
Prof. Richet, who in turn had written to his friend Prof.
Flournoy asking him to welcome me. Naturally the
serious consideration given to my statements was entirely
due to the respect in which these men were held.
In 1924 I sent an account of the three blood incidents
to Dr. Geley, Director of the International Institute of
Metapsychics in Paris. His letter is reproduced in Part
II. Instead of expressing incredulity he tells me of an
analogous experience of his own.
Prof. Richet, however, was more interested in the
mental phenomena and was particularly pleased with the
drawing reproduced on page 32. It is evident from his
letter (Page 36) that he had forgotten the incident until
it was recalled to his mind by reading my pamphlet.
I take this opportunity of acknowledging my indebted
ness to these four men who have shown me great kindness
and have given so generously of their time and knowledge
to a very eager student. Dr. Geley I had not the privilege
of knowing except through correspondence, but his writ
ings have been an inspiration; I owe him more than can
be expressed. That Dr. Hyslop's kindly encouragement
did not cease with his passing, is suggested by the pho
tograph reproduced on page 124. My affection for Dr.
Hyslop is so deep that I find it difficult to speak of him.
{ xviii }
y^Jh mlJc) i^pxaI cP^/ytt.'
»k—
Note from Prof. Theodore Flournoy Asking Us to Meet Some pf the
Members of the International Convention of Psychologists in Geneva,
1909.
INTRODUCTION
When we Anglo-Saxons are threatened with emotion we
instinctively take refuge in humor. Dr. Hyslop was so
richly endowed both with sympathetic understanding and
with a sense of humor, that I think he will understand
my including the cartoon reproduced on page 76. In
my album of cartoons this one afforded him the greatest
amusement.
{xix}
CONTENTS
PART I
FOREWORD AND INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER I
PAGE
Physical Phenomena ...... 3
Terminology —Effect of Light—Emanation of "Substance" or Ecto
plasm —Paraffin Moulds —Apports and Transports —Levitation —
Psychic Structures —Raps —Spontaneous Phenomena.
CHAPTER II
Mental Phenomena ...... 23
The Subconscious—Ouija and Planchette —Automatic Writing—Repro
duction of Handwriting —Book Tests—Interference—Telepathy —
Psychometry —Exteriorised Impressions—Veridical Hallucination —
Dreams—Predictions —Time.
CHAPTER III
Evidence . . . . . . .
'
. 42
The Contributions of Science —Evidence and Proof—Parallelism and
Brain Surgery.
CHAPTER IV
Survival ........ 52
Records—Complex Phenomena—Telepathy in Support of Survival —
After Death Conditions —Summary.
PART II
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES
CHAPTER I
Personal Incidents ...... 65
Incident of Locket —Remarks on Mr. Hannegan's Mediumship —Record
—Attitude of Press—Hyslop's Comments and Letters —Incidents
of:— White Roses—Lost Coins — Desk — Diagnosis — Materialisa
tions of Blood —Emerald Ring.
{xxi}
CONTENTS
CHAPTER II
PAGE
Experiments in Psychic Photography . . 115
Method — Human Radiation — Photograph of "Extra" — Hyslop's
Symbol.
CHAPTER III
Psychic Healing and Obsession . . . .126
Experiments of Titus Bull, M.D., in the Application of Psychical Re
search to Psychosis and Neurosis —"The Case of Mr. C. E."
(a Digest of one of Dr. Bull's Records.)
(xxii}
ILLUSTRATIONS
PACK
Psychic Photograph, Plate I . . . Frontispiece
Flournoy's Letter . . . . . . xviii
Automatic Drawing and Richet's Book Plate . 32
Richet's Letter . . . . . . .36
Portrait of Mr. Hannegan ..... 66
Caricature of Hyslop ...... 76
Parody of Campaign Song ..... 78
Caricatures of Mr. Hannegan and H. C. L. . 82
Geley's Letter ....... 94
Plate II— Photograph of Human Radiation . . 116
Plate III— Psychic Photograph . . . .120
Plate IV— Psychic Photograph —Hyslop's Symbol 124
Landscape Painted under "Selleny Control" . 126
Automatic Crayon Drawing . . . . .138
Automatic Crayon Drawing ..... 148
{
xxiii J
A GENERAL SURVEY
OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
PART ONE
Chapter One
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
Terminology —Effect of Light—Emanation of "Substance" or Ectoplasm —
Paraffin Moulds —Apports and Transports —Levitation —Psychic Structures
—Raps —Spontaneous Phenomena—
"Miracles do not happen in contradiction to nature,
but only in contradiction to that which is known to us
of nature."
St. Augustine.
Ocientific investigators rightly deplore the present
^ tendency among laymen to experiment with psychical
phenomena. But will this tendency be checked ? I think
not. It may not be logical, but it is human, to be more
impressed by one personal experience than by a hundred
experiences at second hand, even though we know the
hundred to have been verified under test conditions by
men who were more competent to judge of their authen
ticity than ourselves. The layman's safety lies in first
acquiring at least an elementary understanding of the
nature of psychical phenomena, of the errors into which
he is likely to fall regarding them, and of the uncertain
conditions that surround them. Given this safe-guard
against over-credulity and self-deception I do not see
why an intelligent person necessarily should be harmed
by a moderate amount of experimentation, although great
care should be exercised in selecting one's companions
in such investigation. Chapter III, Part II will make the
(3)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
reason for this caution more clear. Interest in psychical
phenomena frequently is the result of personal loss. Such a
motive has its dangers and investigators should be warned
that too recent and violent sorrow unfits one for exercising
critical faculty and calm judgment. One has need of
moderation and self-control, and a too eager personal
motive is apt to lead to anxiety and self-deception. I do
not believe that the cases of insanity and hysteria so
often quoted as being the result of such investigations are
caused, primarily, by attempts at communication or
mediumship. I think that the cause lies deeper —in a
selfish and material motive and in a mentality weakened
by orthodox superstitions of which fear is the key-note.
People fear to disobey hallucinatory commands, fear to
exercise their own judgment as to the wisdom or authen
ticity of such commands. They are afraid to think that
they might possibly know better about their own affairs
than some discarnate entity who, quite conceivably, may
be less advanced, mentally and morally, than themselves.
Unquestionably, there is danger in seeking to open the
door of one's consciousness to psychic forces. But the
danger lies in our own weaknesses of character and our
lack of understanding. The same discrimination should
be used regarding our unseen guests that is employed in
forming friendships on this plane. One should put aside
the old idea that those who are released from the body,
immediately are freed from all weaknesses and are num
bered among the angels. Most communicators appear
to be human beings struggling like ourselves for develop
ment and enlightenment.
(4l
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
It is true that one is sometimes permitted to come in
touch with communicators who have advanced much
farther, but seldom unless some direct and good purpose
is to be accomplished. Discretion must be used in regard
to false messages and subconscious interpolations. It
must be realised that few of the discarnate minds with
whom we may be in touch are able to see into the future
much more than we ourselves. This should eliminate
fear caused by disquieting predictions. Many unwar-
rantedly assume that the mere fact of being freed from
the body endows the discarnate mind with a complete
knowledge of the future.
Above all, if one is only seeking communication through
curiosity or love of sensation, he should let the subject
altogether alone. The lover of sensations is apt to ex
perience them in too startling measure, whether they be
supplied by his own subconscious self or by some dis
carnate entity of like morbid tastes.
Do not make the mistake of calling amateur investi
gations "Psychical Research." The term is often mis
applied. One who looks at a drop of blood or a microbe
under a microscope does not speak of doing medical or
biological research. Anyone may assist the scientist by
collecting material. With careful method he may offer
something of real value. But it is for the men who have
given years of study to psychical phenomena to analyse
this material and pass upon its merit. It is difficult for
the layman to judge of these things, although certainly he
is entitled to his opinions concerning them.
As I am writing only for those who lack an elementary
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
knowledge of this subject, technical terms will be avoided
as much as possible, and the meaning will be given of
those most commonly used, because it will sometimes
make for clearness and brevity if they are employed.
By "Sitters" is meant the persons who come together in
a group, or "circle," with a view to receiving messages
or witnessing other phenomena, and contributing what
ever they may possess of mediumistic power to help the
operators. An "Operator" is understood to mean the
discarnate or disembodied intelligence who, on his side,
assists by producing phenomena. The term "Medium"
is applied to someone more highly gifted psychically than
the ordinary sitter. No one seems to be wholly devoid of
a quality which may help in the production of phenomena,
but an antagonistic sitter may prove to be a hindrance and
what he has in the way of psychic power may not be
considered helpful, or be used by the operators. The
word "Telekinesis" means either the levitation of ob
jects, with or without contact, and their suspension in
the air; or, the simple movement of objects from place to
place, without contact. The term also is applied to raps,
with which most persons are familiar.
" With or without
contact" demands explanation. Heavy objects have been
lifted when only the finger-tips of the medium or sitters
touched them, and also when the hands were held above
them without contact.
Occasionally spontaneous levitations are observed when
no effort has been made to obtain them. On one occasion
Mr. Hannegan was lifted with the heavy piano bench
on which he was seated, while our group sat around a
16)
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
table with joined hands. This was in darkness, but the
phenomenon lasted long enough for us to release each
other's hands ("break the chain") and pass our hands
between the floor and the feet of the bench.1 There was
a space of several inches between them and the floor.
Mr. Hannegan weighed about two hundred pounds. Phe
nomena of this type will be referred to later in connection
with Prof. Crawford's experiments. They are termed
Objective, or Physical phenomena, as distinguished from
the Mental, or Subjective manifestations, such as auto
matic writing, speaking and painting, Clairvoyance or
Lucidity, Psychometry, etc.
The darkness necessary to the successful production of
physical phenomena frequently causes the remark that
the manifestations must be fraudulent. Dr. Geley has
given a very rational explanation of why light should be
detrimental to the development of physical manifesta
tions.2 He cites the histolysis of the insect as analogous
to phenomena where a substance (Ectoplasm) emanating
1 It is usual for members of a group to hold each other's hands, sometimes
called "making the chain." This is supposed to facilitate the concentration of
psychic force. It also enables the sitters to control each other's movements
and so to prevent fraud. The hands sometimes are linked together with cord,
or a light chain which is fastened to the wrists with padlocks or seals. The
feet are sometimes linked in this manner. Such precautions against fraud are
spoken of as the "control." This must not be confused with the word "control"
as it is used in speaking of a communicator in control of a medium.
When the bench with Mr. Hannegan on
it,
began to rise, one of his hands
was held by me, and the other by another member of the group. We released
his hands during the levitation in order to feel for the space between the floor
and the feet of the bench.
'De L'Ineonscient au Conscient, Dr. Gustave Geley. F£lix Alcan, Paris,
1924, page 48.
Same book, From the Unconscious to the Conscious, Geley, trans, by Stanley
De Brath. Collins
&
Son, 1920, page 48.
(7)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
from the medium is the basis of the manifestation. The
insect, after enveloping itself in a cocoon, disintegrates
into a plasma which later is reorganised into quite a new
form. Dr. Geley advances the hypothesis that the sub
stance which issues from the medium, and which assumes
various forms before being reabsorbed into his body, is
the result of a process similar to that in the case of the
insect and of various embryological processes. He re
minds us that the processes of biological evolution take
place slowly, and in darkness; that laboratory experi
ments show them to be greatly retarded by light. He
therefore finds it quite comprehensible that the much
more rapid development of these physical manifestations
of mediumship should be extremely sensitive to light.
Ordinary people sitting quietly in the dark occasionally
see filmy matter floating about them, and two or more
sitting with their hands resting upon a table may observe
a cloudy substance rising from the wooden surface. It
usually condenses itself into globular shapes, and some
times assumes clear, beautiful colors. Before condensa
tion it has the appearance of vapor. Some of these
shapes are merely whitish in appearance, but often they
are luminous as though phosphorescent, or have a brilliant
point of light in the center like a star with a nebula around
it. Not all luminous phenomena of this type are radiant;
but some illuminate objects within a small radius.1 A
reference to Theosophical literature may be criticised in
'The custom prevailing in some groups of experimenters, of singing, or
playing on some musical instrument during a sitting
is,
of course, based upon
the idea that vibrations assist in the production of phenomena.
I
have found
that when
a
tuning fork
is
struck against
a
wooden surface in the dark,
a
18}
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
this connection as most of its teachers are opposed to
experimental method, and discourage demonstration.
Nevertheless, many of the descriptions of luminous phe
nomena and human radiation or aura, given by Theosoph-
ical writers, are extremely interesting. Thought Forms
by Besant and Leadbeater, contains some remarkable
colored plates, and a few of the forms pictured were
familiar to me through personal experience before I saw
the book.
Evidently one must be strongly mediumistic in order
to exteriorise enough of the "substance" to enable the
operators to use it for a definite purpose such as materiali
sations of forms, or the "rods" used by Crawford's
group. (See page 17). But a slight amount may be seen
in almost any circle of sitters and I have often seen it
over the head of a certain child when he was asleep, in
globular clouds of white, clear pale blue, or rose-color.
Streams and clouds of whitish substance emanating from
mediums have been observed for many years; but for a
long time this was not especially studied, or supposed to
be a factor in materialisation and telekinesis. Interest
was aroused in 1909, when Mme. Bisson conducted a
series of experiments with the medium, Eve Carriere, and
after long and careful observation, published a book on
her experiences with The Substance, as it was then called. 1
luminous, cone-shaped cloud may be seen rising from the object struck by the
fork.
* Les Phinomlnes de Materialisation, Mme. Bisson, ad edition. Ffilix Alcan,
Paris, 192a.
Physikalische PKanomene des Mediumismus, Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing.
Ernest Reinhardt, Munich, 1920.
(9)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, who afterwards collaborated
with Mme. Bisson, wrote a valuable and exhaustive ac
count of experiments in this type of mediumship. The
name "Ectoplasm" was agreed upon for the "Substance,"
and it is also called "Teleplasm." Photographs show
streams of filmy, whitish substance emanating from the
bodies of mediums, sometimes organizing itself into faces,
limbs, and complete human forms.
In 1920 M. Jean Meyer, founder of the International
Spiritist Headquarters in Paris, also founded the Inter
national Institute of Metapsychics (Institut Metapsy-
chique International) in the same city. Dr. Gustave Geley
was made Director and the research committee was formed
of men of international reputation. The earlier work done
at the Institute was chiefly concerned with mental phe
nomena. Later, the committee made a special study of
physical manifestations. Before his death in 1924, Dr.
Geley had succeeded in establishing the reality of physical
phenomena produced by Franek Kluski, Jean Guzik, and
other mediums. Dr. Richet collaborated with Dr. Geley
in this work and was one of the celebrated "Thirty-Four"
who testified to the reality of the manifestations. Sir
Oliver Lodge and Camille Flammarion were among the
internationally known witnesses who testified.
The phenomena obtained with Kluski were startlingly
brilliant. His mediumship is versatile. In these investi
gations, lights, telekinetic phenomena, and full materiali-
Same book, The Phenomena of Materialisation, Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing.
Ernest Reinhardt, trans, by Fournier d'Albe. Kegan Paul, Trench, Trfibner it
Co., London, 1923.
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
sations of human and animal forms were obtained. The
most impressive result of this long series of experiments
remains as an objective record. It is a collection of the
famous psychic moulds made by means of paraffin. A
vessel of warm paraffin was placed near the sitters and
the materialised forms were requested to thrust a hand
or a foot in the liquid. The mould thus obtained was
then filled with plaster and the paraffin was removed,
leaving a cast of the member which had been plunged
into it. These moulds show great variety. Some are of
delicate female hands, some of large, strong male hands,
and others are like children's, and in some cases, smaller
than life-sized, adult hands. There are casts of feet and
in one case an attempt was made to mould a face. The
conditions were too detailed to be described here. They
were such as to preclude the possibility of fraud and the
witnesses declared themselves satisfied. Those who wish
to know the details of precautions and method will find
full descriptions, with very interesting reproductions of
photographs of the moulds, in L'Ectoplasmie et la Clair
voyance by Dr. Geley.1 The Psychic Moulds are the
property of the Institut Metapsychique, 89 Ave. Ni61,
Paris.
"Control" is a term used to designate the precautions
taken against fraud. It is applied also in two other con
nections: —it is used to describe the condition in which
1 L'Ectoplasmie et la Clairvoyance, Dr. Gustave Geley. Felix Alcan, Paris,
Same book, Clairvoyance and Materialisation, Dr. Gustave Geley, trans, by
Stanley De Brath. T. Fisher Unwin., Lim., London, 1927.
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
a communicator speaks or acts through a medium, and
also the checking, or verification of messages and
other manifestations. As applied to precaution against
fraud it has been insufficiently studied and is very little
understood in its application to the varying conditions
in mediumship. Dr. Geley says: "When a medium cheats
it is the experimenters who are to blarne." Unquestionably
much time and energy on the part of investigators are
wasted in detective work. Still more serious is the fact
that valuable mediumship is spent in a repetition of
trivialities which are (once the reality of such manifesta
tions has been proven) no longer important and lead
nowhere. When the honesty of a medium has been estab
lished it remains only to guard against unconscious fraud,
which is common even among genuine and sincere
psychics.
Those who have seen little experimentation find it
difficult to understand the question of unconscious fraud.
Ochorowicz says: "Unconscious fraud is simply the autom
atism which results from the inhibition of the will and
consciousness of the medium during trance. Having
recognised that a medium is only a mirror which reflects
and directs the ideas and nervous forces of the sitters
towards an ideoplastic production, one should not be
surprised that suggestion plays an important part.—When
controllers' minds are filled with the idea of fraud—the
medium is dominated by the suggestion of fraud."
The automatic movements of an entranced medium are
often synchronous with the movements of objects, and
therefore they are frequently mistaken for attempts at
{12}
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
trickery. These movements are most noticeable in the
initial stages of trance, and Dr. Geley cautions sitters
that a too rigid control at this particular stage is apt to
inhibit the development of manifestations. He says:
"What is true and should be thoroughly understood, is
that control should not be blindly used,—identically in
all cases and at all times. It should be intelligently
adapted to conditions,—pliable, and rational. A rigid
control used without considering the medium's psychical
and physical modalities often is sterilizing, not because
it prevents fraud, but because it suppresses the initial
automatisms. When certain observers obtain no phenom
ena under strict conditions of control, it does not follow
that this failure is due to the strict control, but rather,
because it has been wrongly applied. —Effort should not
be concentrated upon the elimination of all possibility
of any conceivable fraud (a difficult thing to achieve),
but, I repeat, it should be directed towards obtaining
such complex and powerful phenomena as will, under
given conditions of control, carry conviction in them
selves.—If experimenters waste time in studying mediocre
and elementary phenomena they will find it difficult to
obtain a control which is wholly satisfactory to every
one.
"If they are wise enough to consider as negligible,
elementary phenomena and the little tricks by which they
might be simulated; if they will allow manifestations to
develop instead of paralysing them in the initial stage,
by unwise exactions; then, surely, they will obtain
phenomena of such variety, such importance, sometimes
I13)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
of such beauty, that they will be definitely and unalterably
convinced." 1
In regard to fraud, laymen are inclined to place great
faith in the judgment of prestidigitators, simply because
of their special knowledge. This confidence is based
upon misapprehension. Such special knowledge may be
of great value in the seance room, but only when combined
with a knowledge of conditions, which, too often, is
lacking. M. Rene Sudre says in regard to this: "I am
convinced that prestidigitators exaggerate the value of
their accomplishments where it concerns their ability to
imitate metapsychical phenomena. We know that pure
prestidigitation, which is the art of making an object
disappear in order to make it appear elsewhere, or to
substitute a different object in its place, depends more on
mental than manual dexterity. Physical mediums are
very often simple, rustic persons, who are incapable of
physical dexterity. Instead of distracting attention by
talking they are in a half-conscious state during a seance.
They have no freedom of movement, as their hands, and
often their feet, are controlled.—It is time that the
public ceased to class illusionism and metapsychics as
though their domains interpenetrated."
Among the telekinetic phenomena usually supposed to
be fraudulently produced by prestidigitation, "Apports"
and "Transports" are very interesting. An apport is
usually understood to mean the transference of an object,
1 L'Ectoplasmie et la Clairvoyance, Dr. Gustave Geley. F61ix Alcan, Paris,
1924.
Translation by Stanley De Brath, Clairvoyance and Materialisation, Dr.
Gustave Geley. T. Fisher Unwin, London, 1927.
(14)
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
either from another part of the room, or from a greater
distance, whether it must pass some material obstacle or
not. The word thus used in the same sense as "trans
port
"
is confusing. Rene Sudre urges that careful distinc
tion be made between the two terms. He suggests that
the word "transport" be applied only to cases where the
object brought does not pass through a material ob
stacle (such as a door or a wall), and that when the
object must pass such an obstacle it be called "an ap-
port." 1
He claims that only in case of this passage
through an obstacle (the passage of matter through
matter) does dematerialisation take place. The distinc
tion is useful; but my own experience leads me to believe
that the rule as to dematerialisation cannot be applied
to all cases, and recent experiments by Dr. Schwab of
Berlin confirm me in this belief. Dr. Schwab finds that
different methods are used at different times, by the
operators. In support of this opinion he shows a number
of photographs taken during his experiments with the
medium, Maria Vollhart. One photograph shows a cush
ion as it approached through the air at a low rate of
speed—about ten centimeters per second. A small cone-
shaped bit of substance (ectoplasm) is seen clinging to
the cushion. Dr. Schwab thinks that in this instance the
object was carried or supported by something like the
psychic rods described by Crawford. (See page 18).
He believes that when an object approaches more rapidly
1 Maria Vollhart, Nouveau Mldium a Tilekinise et Apports, Rene' Sudre.
Revue M£tapsychique, July—August, 1923, page 225.
Teleplasma und Telekinese, Dr. F. Schwab. Pyramidenverlag, Schwarz
& Co., Berlin, 1923.
(IS)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
it is dropped, or thrown. As to the dematerialisation of
objects in apports and transports, his photographs cer
tainly indicate that it sometimes takes place in both
cases. His medium usually announced an apport or
transport as it was taking place. On one occasion she
said that a vase which stood on a distant table was
being brought to the little seance-table in the midst of
the circle. This was in complete darkness. With his
left hand Dr. Schwab felt of a vase on the seance-table,
identifying it by touch with the one that had stood on
the distant table. At the same moment he pressed a
button with his right hand which caused a photographic
exposure to be made. On developing the plate it was
found that although both tables appeared in the negative,
no trace of the vase was to be seen in the picture. Where,
asks Dr. Schwab, was the vase during the moment of
photographic exposure?
In M. Sudre's abstract of the book, which is all I
have read of Dr. Schwab's experiments, no mention is
made of where the vase was found after the seance. My
own experience has been that in cases of interrupted or
abortive apports and transports the object is not always
found in exactly the original position, but sometimes
shows evidence of having been disturbed. Dr. Schwab
believes that the vase was dematerialised for the purpose
of transport and that it had not been permanently reor
ganised when he felt of
it,
or sufficiently so as to register
on the plate. By way of curious contrast, other of his
photographs show that some objects announced, which
could not be perceived by touch, were shown
in
the
{16}
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
photograph although the objects themselves were not
found later. Dr. Schwab concludes that these variations
were due to the different stages of organisation or of
dematerialisation at which the photographic exposures
were made. Dr. Geley has written an interesting chapter
on such abortive or defective materialisations, showing
how valuable they are as a means of studying the genesis
of psychic structures (See L'Ectoplasmie et la Clairvoy
ance), and the same curious points of difference will be
found in the abstract from my record, in Part II, of
three incidents of materialisation of blood.
The experiments of Prof. W. J. Crawford of Belfast,
with the medium Kathleen Goligher, began, in 191 5, to
arouse great interest in physical phenomena.1 He demon
strated that projections, formed of an emanation from
the body of the medium and also, to a slight extent, from
the bodies of the sitters, may be arranged and manipu
lated by the operators so as to move objects and produce
raps. These streams projecting from the medium are
invisible to the average sitter but they are observed by
persons who are slightly clairvoyant, and have been
registered on photographic plates. As seen in the photo
graphs they appear to be of a filmy, whitish substance.
In photographing these projections a magnesium light
is used. As light tends to weaken or arrest physical
manifestations, the rods, as shown in photographs, are
more filmy and less clear of outline than they appear to
clairvoyant vision before they have been exposed to the
1 The Reality of Psychic Phenomena, Prof. W. J. Crawford. Dutton, New
York, 1918.
{ 17}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
light. Prof. Crawford concludes that these streams of
substance may be stiffened by the operators, probably
by some molecular action, into rods which they use for
leverage; or that they may be left in a flexible state like
the extensions of arms, which often terminate in some
thing like hands that touch us, manipulate objects, and
leave impressions on putty or prepared surfaces. He
demonstrated by putting his medium on a scale, that
there is a corresponding decrease in weight as this sub
stance emanates from the medium's body. It will na
turally be asked why one should suppose any spiritistic
agency to be involved in such phenomena, since it has
been shown that the mechanism proceeds from the physi
cal; that
is,
from the bodies of the medium and sitters.
The critic will be right in assuming that such manifesta
tions do not necessarily imply spiritistic origin. Many,
no doubt, are entirely,
if
unconsciously, produced by
the sitters. But Prof. Crawford's experiments show that
frequently there seems to be
a
group of discarnate intelli
gences directing the formation of the arms, rods, or other
structures of ectoplasmic nature, which they use in
a
skilful manner to accomplish desired results. These
intelligences sometimes make suggestions and requests
which show that some among them have
a
knowledge of
physics. Many operators apparently lack the knowledge
necessary for the production of phenomena and are un
certain as to what may be the result of their efforts. One
is
sometimes asked to wait until someone outside of their
group can be called upon to come to their assistance.
Operators often communicate by means of raps which
{18}
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
may be used as a code when it is desired to ask a question
during a dark seance. Outside agency is attributed to
raps when they seem to have a purpose, or when they
convey messages according to a pre-arranged code. It
need not be assumed that phenomena exhibiting no in
telligence may not have such a source; merely that
evidence of it is lacking.
Some operators seem to understand how to assist in
producing materialisations or apparitions, and to know
nothing about the mechanics of levitations or raps, while
others are skilful in the latter work and are unable to
produce other phenomena. They display great patience
and perseverance, showing that they consider it important
to help in accomplishing an experiment. No detail,
however insignificant, is ignored by them as unworthy of
effort. They seem to understand that a very trifling
incident, if it can be proved genuine, is worth great
trouble. They quickly seize upon any suggestion that
might help to indicate identity, or to eliminate the
question of fraud. Many appear to have no definite
plan or knowledge of how to produce phenomena, and I
believe this is an explanation of some of the so-called
mischievous demonstrations;—that they are not always
intended to annoy, but that the operators are amateurs
at handling the force employed and are often, themselves,
dismayed and surprised at the result of their efforts.1
* It should be remembered that not only we, on our side, are dealing with
unknown forces, but that the same may be true of the operators in most in
stances. For this reason it has always seemed to me quite irrational to expect
"exact repetitions" of psychical experiments, at least until they have been
made hundreds of times by the same groups of operators and experimenters.
{19}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
I believe that many annoying demonstrations are but
the fumbling attempts to attract attention,—to "get
through" in any possible way. We usually find that they
cease upon request as though there had been no intention
to annoy. These spontaneous and supposedly mischievous
phenomena are called "Poltergeist," a term borrowed
from the German.
Professor Crawford's experiments were concentrated
upon measuring force in leverage, the alteration of weight,
according to the pounds of pressure exerted in levitations
and the moving of objects. It seems to me that in some
types of physical phenomena other mechanical methods
must be employed by the operators beside that of manipu
lation by means of extensions or rods, emanating from
the medium. Otherwise we should not have the phenom
ena which occur at a much greater distance from the
observer or medium than was the case in Prof. Crawford's
experiments. This comment applies to a large class of
spontaneous phenomena.
Naturally the scientific investigator does not, as yet,
concern himself with these spontaneous manifestations.
For the present his work must be devoted to experiments
that can be made under test conditions; but the number
of spontaneous phenomena is so great that it precludes
their being ignored, and doubtless, later, some explana-
Accurate repetitions of experiments would not be expected from a novice in a
chemical or physics laboratory, even though he be given exact formulte and
rules of method. In the Psychic laboratory we have neither exact formulae
nor rules for the guidance of the experimenter, and we are often assured by
the operators that such knowledge only comes to them by experiment and
much practice.
{20}
PHYSICAL PHENOMENA
tion of the methods used in these cases will be found.
In spontaneous phenomena one finds an unlimited variety
of telekinesis. Objects are hidden or removed from their
accustomed places; doors are opened and closed; lights
are turned on or off, or slowly lowered and raised. In
numerable things occur to excite surprise and interest as
though a merry child were amusing himself by showing
his dexterity for our bewilderment. A few years ago some
friends were with me doing automatic writing. For this
purpose I have a huge book fitted with a lock. I left the
key on a serving-table in the dining room, and placed the
book on the dining- table. When we finished writing I
looked for the key in order to lock the book, but could
not find it. No one had left the room, but later we
found the key in the adjoining room. When I brought
it to lock the book we found it already locked. This is
only one of hundreds of odd little incidents which still
occur occasionally, wherever I may be. They have been
manifested for a number of years, but were very much
more frequent while Mr. Hannegan was a member of
our household.
People often say, "Of what value are such manifesta
tions?" It is true that they are not particularly spiritual
or enlightening, yet to me it seems natural enough that
some discarnate entities should, for a time, at least, re
tain a sense of humor. It seems rather comforting that
they should still be so human. I once remarked that a
certain absurd manifestation was a waste of force. The
reply was written quickly: "It was worth the effort
because it made you laugh. You would be of more help
{21}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
to us if you laughed oftener." These little happenings
serve to remind us that we are not always alone. Sir A.
Conan Doyle warns us not to scorn such seemingly crude
and objectless phenomena.1 He says, very reasonably,
that like the ring of a telephone bell which in itself
manifests no intelligence, they serve to arrest attention;
to make us aware of something that we might not other
wise notice. It is reasonable to suppose that with the
difficulty in arousing our perceptive faculties, the opera
tors cannot afford to despise any means of signalling us.
Unfortunately, many persons seem to be impressed
only by this type of manifestation. But the fact that a
man life Prof. Crawford thought it worth while to spend
such effort in demonstrating the reality of two or three
phases of physical phenomena should teach that nothing
in regard to them is unimportant if it prove some truth.
What Prof. Crawford learned about the production of
a commonplace rap, and his demonstration with weights,
seem to me to have advanced the knowledge of physical
phenomena by half a century.
1 The Vital Message, Sir A. Conan Doyle. Dutton, New York, 1916.
(22)
Chapter Two
MENTAL PHENOMENA
The Subconscious —Ouija and Planchette —Automatic Writing —Reproduction
of Handwriting —Book Tests—Interference—Telepathy —Psychometry —
Exteriorised Impressions—Veridical Hallucination —Dreams—Predictions
—Time
"In any case we need to be on our guard against press
ing the telepathic theory to absurd extremes, as some
psychical researchers seem disposed to do."
Sir William Barrett.
The
various Subjective or Mental phenomena are
undoubtedly of a higher order than the Physical or
Objective type described in the first chapter, and they are
proportionately difficult to study. Beside being com
plex in themselves they often are accompanied by physical
manifestations which make them still more baffling to
analysis. However I shall first discuss the simpler and
purely mental phenomena and try to show why it is so
difficult to be certain of their origin. Those who have
time for extensive reading should study Gurney's Phan
tasms of the Living. Myers' Human Personality is very
comprehensive and contains detailed accounts of incidents.
Dr. Osty, the present Director of the Institut Metapsy-
chique, has made a deep study of clairvoyance, and his
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Connaissance Supranormale is a marvellous record.1 But
these books are not light reading, and as I am writing
especially for those whose time for study is limited I
shall try to give a little idea of what has been accom
plished in the way of observing the mind while it is still
in the body. Most of us have read something about
the Conscious and Subconscious minds, and have per
haps found the subject rather obscure. I can think of
no simpler way of introducing a matter which still offers
great problems to the scientist, than by quoting the
statement of a four-year-old child. Once when my son
was reciting a verse, he stopped and put his hand to his
head with a troubled expression. When asked if his head
ached he replied that it did not, but that he "couldn't make
his little mind keep still while he asked his big mind to
remember." Of course he had never heard such a subject
discussed, and I was astonished at his assuming this
perfectly simple explanation of a lack of memory. He
seemed instinctively to know that some depth existed in
his consciousness which could not be reached at will
because of the distraction caused by that "little mind"
which was quiet only during sleep.
It seems, however, that the "big" or unconscious
mind (Myers uses the term "Subliminal Consciousness")
is not merely a storehouse for memories. It also appears
' Phantasms of the Living, Gurney, Podmore & Myers. Truebner & Co.,
London, 1886.
The Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death, F. W. H. Myers,
Longmans, Green & Co., New York, 1904.
La Connaissance Supranormale, Dr. Osty. F61ix Alcan, Paris, 1913.
Same book, Supernormal Faculties in Man, Dr. Osty, trans, by Stanley
De Brath. Dutton, New York, 1923.
(24)
MENTAL PHENOMENA
to be a factory turning out new matter quite independently
of the work going on in the conscious mind of which we
are aware, as well as a "receiving station" for telepathic
impressions. It assumes phases, and personalities, es
pecially in trance or hypnotic state, which are wholly
alien to the everyday personality with which we are fa
miliar. Many persons, such as Myers, distinguish the
conscious from the subconscious mind by an imaginary
line above which the active or conscious mind functions,
and below which lie the different strata of subliminal
consciousness, functioning independently. The deeper
we seek, the nearer do we come to the more spiritual and
inspirational sources. Sometimes ideas and impulses from
the upper strata of the subliminal which lie close to
the dividing line, find their way above it and mingle with
the active, conscious thoughts of the waking mind. This
may cause heightened perception and power; and some
times, confusion and nervous disturbance. Some au
thorities use the term
"
Superconscious
"
to designate
that part of the consciousness which receives and directs
the more spiritual and inspirational impulses, and by the
"Subconscious" they understand that portion which is
directed by instinct and which carries on the functions
of the body, and acts as a storehouse for memories.1
If I have managed to convey even a slight idea of this
1 It is to be hoped that in the near future, writers on this subject will agree
upon an exact terminology, as it
is,
at the present moment, extremely con
fusing and vague. Each writer, dissatisfied with the old terminology, originates
his own terms, as being more exact than those which were in use
a
few years
ago, so that the literature of psychical research now contains four or five dif
ferent words to designate the same thing—yet the word "control" continues
to be applied in three quite different senses.
{25}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
complex subject the reader will understand why it is so
difficult to distinguish what comes from the depths (or
heights) of our own consciousness however unaware of it
we may be, from information furnished by some other
intelligence, either incarnate or discarnate. If we have
evidence, such as information received which we believe
cannot have originated in our own subconsciousness, and
which has not come to us through sensorial channels1
(Supernormal knowledge), we still must ask whether it
be received telepathically from some living person, or
from some discarnate intelligence. The only way of
determining this question is to examine the nature of the
information or the impression received. If anyone thinks
this a simple task he has little conception of the enormous
and unselfish labor to which investigators have devoted
themselves. I say "unselfish" because few whom I have
known have pursued this work from a personal motive.
Most of the eminent workers whom I have known have
arrived at a personal conviction, but continue their
research in the hope of finding proof to offer to others
who doubt, yet long for, assurance of the survival of
identity after death.
This proof of identity has, of course, been an important
object of research, as well as the supreme difficulty. It
was comparatively easy to secure a mass of evidence of
communication with outside intelligences, incarnate or
1 The classical definition of "normal" is "according to natural laws." This
would of course render the term "Supernormal" meaningless. However
usage has made the term "normal" accepted as meaning accustomed, or under
stood, and "supernormal" as signifying unaccustomed or unexplained. It is
in this popular sense that I shall use the term in this survey.
{26)
MENTAL PHENOMENA
discarnate. But to prove that the communicator was
the personality claimed has seemed, in view of what is
known of the powers of the still incarnate mind, very
difficult indeed. That identity has been proven some
investigators believe. Attention has been called to the
fact that since the deaths of Richard Hodgson and F. W.
H. Myers a special effort has been made by communica
tors to give proofs of identity, and that these efforts have
been made along lines that both men advocated during
life. Messages have been received by different mediums
in different parts of the world, which had no separate
meaning, but which when assembled, as a puzzle is fitted
together, formed a significant whole. Dr. Hyslop's ac
counts of these puzzles which he calls "cryptograms"
are very clear, and I believe he considered them proof
of identity.
"Book tests" have been reported rather frequently
during the last few years. They are instances where a
communicator refers the sitter to a certain book, gives
the page number, and indicates a line of the text which
has a significance in connection with the message being
given. 1
The name of the book is not always given. Some
times it is indicated by the position on a certain shelf,
possibly in a room many miles away from that in which
the sitting is taking place. The Rev. C. Drayton Thomas
has received some interesting "newspaper tests" of this
character. His communicator even gave a line which
1 Some New Evidence for Human Survival, C. Drayton Thomas. Dutton,
New York, 1924.
Report of Book Tests, Dr. Walter F. Prince. Journal of A. S. P. R., March,
1925.
{27}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
would appear in the London Times of the following day,
although at the time of the communication the type had
not yet been set for that issue.
By the "simpler" mental phenomena I mean those
which are purely mental or subjective, without the
accompaniment of physical manifestations which render
them more complex. None prove simple when attempt
is made to analyze them. The mental phenomena which
are most familiar are: —trance-speaking, Ouija board
messages, and automatic writing. The Ouija is clumsy
and unsatisfactory, but it seems to be an easy mode of
communication through those whose mediumship is slight
or undeveloped. The Ouija may be used by one person
alone, or by two, who place their fingers lightly on the
little indicator. It hardly deserves the scorn with which
it has been treated, for crude as it
is,
the method has
sometimes led to great development of mediumship, as in
the cases of Margaret Cameron, Mrs. Curran (Patience
Worth), and Joan, the automatist of Our Unseen Guest.1
The indicator of the Ouija often moves so rapidly that
it
is
difficult to keep an accurate record of the messages,
hence
it
lacks the advantage of the planchette which has
a
pencil fitted to the indicator. Unfortunatel the
planchette
is
usually very poorly made, and
I
have found
few that worked smoothly.
In automatic writing the automatist holds
a
pencil
in
1
The Seven Purposes, Margaret Cameron. Harper Bros., New York, 1918.
Patience Worth, A Psychic Mystery, Casper
S.
Yost. Henry Holt
&
Co.
New York, 1916.
Our Unseen Guest, Anon. Harper Bros., New York, 1920.
{28}
MENTAL PHENOMENA
the ordinary way. If mediumship is slight he may be
greatly assisted by the hand of another person, placed
upon his wrist. Some automatists are unaware of what
is being written, while others are conscious of the words
before, or while they are written. Some hear the message
clairaudiently —that
is,
it
seems to them to be spoken
aloud although
it
is
heard by no one else. In some
cases the writer
is
conscious of being able to control the
pencil, although of course he tries to eliminate conscious,
voluntary motion. But in many instances the hand, or
even the entire arm, becomes rigid and must be lifted by
another person to
a
convenient position so that the
pencil will not run off of the page. It seems as though
the methods of communicators must differ; as though
one depends upon impressing
a
message upon the con
scious or subconscious mind of the writer, leaving him
to direct the pencil (inspiration rather than automatism),
while others appear to assume control of the hand, or of
the pencil itself. Only once have
I
seen
a
pencil write
entirely without visible contact. This occurred near
enough to the sitters for the operators to have made use
of the "Psychic rods."
In one case of inverted writing described by Sir William
Barrett the automatist saw an arm and hand superim
posed upon her own. This was not reversed, or "mirror-
writing," but was inverted and was done with great
rapidity. It contained information that seemed to be
quite beyond the explanation of telepathic communica
tion.1 An interesting report of automatic writing
is
1
On the Threshold
of
the Unseen, Barrett. Dutton, New York, 1917, page 191.
(29)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
called "The Blanche Abercrombie Case."1 After the
death of Stainton Moses, a famous medium, a page of
his automatic writing book was found marked "private
matter" and gummed down. Mr. Myers obtained per
mission from the executors to examine the sealed page.
He found it to be a communication signed by a woman
whom he had known, but who was unknown to Mr. Moses,
telling of the circumstances of her death. On submitting
the writing to this woman's son and also to a hand
writing expert, Mr. Myers found them both willing to
testify to its being the identical handwriting of the
person who had purported to communicate.
I have never seen entire messages in the identical hand
writing of the communicator; but I have seen many
exact reproductions of signatures, and of characteristic
peculiarities such as unusually formed capitals, individual
habits of abbreviation, mis-spelled words which the
purported communicator habitually mis-spelled during
life, and other personal mannerisms which were un
known to the automatist and which seemed unlikely
to have been produced by thought-transference from the
sitter. Indeed when one considers how difficult it is to
get an automatist to reproduce even a crude symbol in
response to conscious thought-transference it seems im
probable that all of the marked characteristics I have
mentioned should have been conveyed to the automatist,
even by the subconscious mind of the sitter.
At one time, the reproduction of handwriting of a
1 The Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death, F. W. H. Myers.
Longmans, Green & Co., New York, 1904, page 231.
(30)
MENTAL PHENOMENA
deceased person was thought to be proof of identity. But
while it may be very evidential it cannot be considered
proof. The graphologist, Rafael Scherman, is clair
voyant. He gives evidential messages from specimens
of handwriting submitted to him; but more than this,
he actually reproduces the handwriting of living persons
of whom the sitter may be thinking, or from whom some
object has been handed to him. He also seems to "see
with his fingers," for when a specimen of writing is placed
in a heavy envelope he is able to describe the writer after
passing his fingers over the envelope.
Margaret Cameron, in The Seven Purposes, and Prof.
Crawford,1 make interesting comments upon interference
by unauthorized communicators during automatic writ
ing. They suggest that while the accredited communi
cator is trying to impress a message upon the subconscious
mind of the writer, leaving it automatically to direct the
pencil, some other intelligence tries to control the hand
and pencil. This would explain several things; for in
stance, why one statement is written while the automatist
feels conscious that it ought to be something quite
different; and why a message is clear and evidential
in the beginning, but drifts into confusion and nonsense,
or directly contradicts what has gone before. I have seen
the pencil fly out of the writer's hand on such occasions,
or have with difficulty prevented it from tearing the paper.
It seems as though a dispute were taking place over the
control of the pencil. It is well to discontinue the writing
1 Hints and Observations on the Phenomena of Spiritualism, W. J. Crawford.
Dutton, 1918.
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
at such times, although occasionally, after a short pause,
it may be resumed without interference. Frequently,
however, one is told to abandon the attempt to write as
the intruder "cannot be kept out."
I do not agree with the opinion that this interference is
always by malicious intent. It sometimes appears to be
only a desperate effort to manifest, without the slightest
realisation of the annoyance caused. In one instance we
found that the interfering communicator was a personality
who had not taken the time to explain himself to the
group of operators, but who was trying to send what
proved to be wise and beneficial advice to a former
patient. We were told later by someone who had known
this physician in life, that he had been very nervous and
irritable, often offending patients by his abrupt manner.
In considering an apparent control of the automatist's
hand we, should not forget that often it may be assumed
by his own subconscious self. This does not mean that
the message necessarily originates in his subconscious;
it has already been explained that this part of his con
sciousness may act as a receiving station for telepathic
impressions without his conscious mind being aware of
them. But the control of hand and arm may be assumed
by his submerged self.
In spite of the attention which has been given to the
study of Telepathy its modus operandi remains a mystery.
Many hypotheses have been offered but nothing really is
known. The only fact which has been established is that
the subconscious mind is very much more sensitive to
such communication than is the conscious waking mind.
832}
Automatic Drawing Received in January, 1909, in St. Louis.
PSYCIIOLOGIE GENERALE
Dr. Richet's Drawing for Book-Plate Made in January, 1909.
MENTAL PHENOMENA
This is clearly demonstrated by the fact that while
spontaneous telepathy is very common, conscious, experi
mental telepathy has, so far, been difficult, and the results
have been extremely disappointing.
Different in nature yet equally mysterious in mechan
ism, are the manifestations which are termed "Psycho
metric." The word "Psychometry" has been much
criticised but it still is used by many writers to designate
that type of mediumship in which the clairvoyant fac
ulty appears to be stimulated by some object held in the
medium's hands. Certain observers believe that the
information thus obtained is drawn from the thoughts
of the sitter, or from his subconscious memories; but Dr.
Pagenstecher of Mexico-, in his report on the medium
Maria Reyes de Z.1 demonstrates the improbability of
such an explanation; nor does the hypothesis seem to
apply to all of the psychometric experiments recorded by
Dr. Osty." In his summary of the above-mentioned
experiments with Maria Reyes de Z., Dr. Pagenstecher
states his hypothesis of vibrations retained by the ob
jects used in psychometry. 3
He says: "The logical con
clusions to be drawn from these experiments are,(i) —that
all our sensorial perceptions are based upon molecular
1 Ausersinnliche Wahrnehmung, Gustave Pagenstecher. Carl Marhold, Halle,
1924.
Past Events Seership, Gustave Pagenstecher. Proceedings of A. S. P. R. ,
Vol. XVI, Part I.
' La Connaissance Supranormale, Dr. Osty. Felix Alcan, Paris, 1923.
Same book, trans, by Stanley De Brath, Supernormal Faculties in Man,
Dr. Osty. Dutton, New York, 1923.
» Past Events Seership, Pagenstecher. Proceedings of A. S. P. R., Vol. XVI,
Part I, page 91.
(33)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
movements or vibrations, (i) —Psychometry is based
upon the transmission of molecular vibrations stored in
the 'associated object' and transmitted to a supersensitive
sensorium, i.e.—to an adequate Medium."
One of the experiments upon which Dr. Pagenstecher
bases his conclusions was made with a piece of pottery
which was placed for fifteen days in the case of a clock
that struck the hour and half-hour. When the fragment
was put in her hands the medium perceived rhythmic
sounds like rain-drops, and a melodious noise. To control
this result, she was given a piece of pottery which had
not been enclosed in the clock. The result was negative.
The pottery which had been in the clock was replaced in
it for seven more days; when the medium again held it
she heard distant music and rhythmic sounds. For a
third experiment the object was put into the clock for
twenty-one more days. The result was that the medium
heard the ticking and the striking of a clock. Dr. Pagen-
stecher's experiments were conducted in the most scientific
manner. His summary is very instructive, for the question
of psychometry has been obscure, and a subject of much
controversy.
Dr. Richet says that frequently we think we see with
our physical sight that which really is a mental picture
of an impression, telepathically received; —a sort of exteri
orised symbol of the message or impression. A pretty
incident of this sort occurred in 1909. In January of
that year an automatic drawing was received through
Mr. Hannegan. It is reproduced on page 34. No expla
nation was given. Later in the year we went to Europe
(34)
MENTAL PHENOMENA
and among my letters of introduction was one to Prof.
Richet. It happened to be the only one I presented.
When he asked to see my record he noticed a tracing of
this drawing with the date on which it had been made,
and said abruptly: —"Child, why did you come to me?
Why not to one of my colleagues to whom you have
letters?" While I hesitated for a reply he went on to
say that his consciousness must have touched mine al
though he had been unaware of my existence. He took
from his desk a little drawing which he had made in
January to be used as a book-plate in his library. He
did not recall the exact date on which it had been made
but said it must have been close to that on which our
drawing was received. Prof. Richet made a copy of
his drawing (See page 32). It will be seen that while the
two drawings are not identical they are similar enough
to make the incident a striking one.
This exteriorisation of impressions is not always visual
but sometimes is auditory. Instead of a picture or symbol
one may exteriorise the impression in sounds or voices.
Exteriorisation of vision is often in the form of apparitions,
scenes, symbols, handwriting, etc. Sometimes single
letters are seen, usually very large. Such clairvoyance
differs from that which sometimes enables the percipient
to see something far away, as though he were in that
distant spot himself (Ambulatory Clairvoyance). It is
a form of perception which seems to make the picture or
apparition come to us. This hypothesis of exteriorisation
of impressions does not imply that the source of the
impression may not be some outside intelligence; merely
(35)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
that our way of interpreting the impression is by trans
lating it into symbols or sounds. It explains the impres
sion of the automatist who hears a message spoken before,
or during automatic writing.
Exteriorised impressions are properly spoken of as
"Veridical (or true) Hallucinations." Frequently, when
their validity is implied by the context, writers omit the
qualification "veridical." This omission may be mis
leading to the layman who is apt to interpret "hallucina
tion" in the sense in which it is used pathologically,
meaning delusion. We need not assume that all appari
tions are merely exteriorised impressions, but it is reason
able to suppose that many are such exteriorised mental
pictures even though they be suggested to the percipient
by some outside intelligence. But while veridical halluci
nations are not materialisations which can be perceived
by touch, they are genuine supernormal phenomena, and
not due to imagination and self-deception. Prof. Flournoy
once remarked to me that he found them more valuable
for study than materialisations. Certainly they are equally
interesting and significant. In fact these true hallucina
tions seem to belong to a higher order of manifestation in
that they appear to be independent of matter, while what
we know of materialisations indicates that they are
dependent upon matter borrowed from the body of the
medium and sitters.1 In the case of Collective Halluci-
1 To avoid confusion I have used the word "matter" in the sense understood
by classical science. However, in view of the modern conception of matter,
it would be extremely imprudent to assume that even the evanescent thought-
form is strictly immaterial. In the same way, the line arbitrarily drawn be
tween mental and physical phenomena can only be a relative one.
136}
tS-llue Tic rUmocraiti>
T(Lt)>H
789 *6
< C /
jTa^Cu. ^ c**^. l&ZZc Ux^/^tu^j
Dr. Richet's Letter (1921)
Referring to Incident of Automatic Drawing
and Book-Plate.
MENTAL PHENOMENA
nation,—that
is,
an impression received by two or more
persons simultaneously, the symbol or picture often
is
seen somewhat differently by each person, although the
vision may have the same general significance for all. This
indicates that the vision
is
an exteriorised mental im
pression variously interpreted by the several conscious
nesses of the percipients. In rare cases, however, one
individual sees the same thing as the other (as nearly as
we can judge from the descriptions). Psychological tests
have demonstrated that no two persons see
a
thing in
precisely the same way, and that untrained powers of
observation are astonishingly inaccurate. So, in cases
of collective hallucination we have these divergences of
observation to consider. Where no divergences appear
in the accounts of witnesses one
is
tempted to wonder
whether, instead of collective hallucination, the manifes
tation may not be one of the partial, abortive materialisa
tions which Dr. Geley found so instructive in studying
the genesis and development of ectoplasmic structures.
An example of this type will be found in the third of the
"Three Blood Incidents" in Part II.
Very little light has been thrown upon clairvoyance
in
dreams. Telepathic impressions during sleep may ac
count for some of the supernormally acquired knowledge;
but
it
does not explain how our consciousness apparently
visits distant scenes and brings back minute, exact de
tails into waking consciousness. Some years ago our
family physician1 who had promised to join us in Arkansas
where we had gone for
a
fishing trip, failed to arrive on
1
Dr. Louis P. Butler —one of my witnesses who authorised the use of name.
(37)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
the evening he was expected. That night I dreamed
that I found myself in the city where we all lived. The
dream was vivid, and on waking I recalled details which
I related to the rest of the party. I told them the name
of the street where I found myself in the dream, and
described a house with a steep flight of steps which I
thought I climbed. When I rang the bell Dr. Buder
opened the door and said:—"Mrs. Lambert, you should
not have come here; Mrs. B has just died." I
particularly noticed that a two-horse brougham stood in
front of the house, and wondered why I did not see the
Doctor's electric runabout. Two people in evening dress
hurried past me into the house while I stood speaking to
the doctor. He told me they were relatives who had been
called from the theatre.
On our return to St. Louis I told Dr. Butler of my
dream. He was much interested and said that every
detail was correct except that he had neither seen nor
spoken to me. He was particularly struck by my having
seen the brougham, and said that it happened to be the
only time that winter that he had used one. His runabout
was out of order. With the exception of Dr. Butler none
of the persons concerned in the dream was known to me.
Practically nothing is understood about predictions.
We only know that they come in various ways; through
symbolic visions, announcements by apparitions, the
voice of an entranced medium, scenes or script seen in the
crystal, and through automatic writing and dreams. Pre
monitions often impress themselves on the consciousness
during sleep, but some persons are conscious of premoni
138}
MENTAL PHENOMENA
tory impressions while in a waking state. Of course it
is understood that many predictions are received which
are merely the result of some stray thought, or mixture of
thoughts translated by the consciousness into a semblance
of warning. In fact it seems to be a favorite prank of the
subconscious as well as of interfering outside intelligences,
to deliver some grave, but incorrect message about the
future. However, in the course of more than twenty
years I have seen a great many predictions fulfilled that
were received through automatic writing, and in other
ways. One friend has made a number of correct pre
dictions through pictures seen in the crystal which usually
have been fulfilled within ten days. There has been a
noticeable regularity in the time. The crystal itself is
not supposed to show these future events, but only to
assist in inducing a condition of clairvoyance which re
leases some subliminal faculty able to project itself into
the future, and to see distant scenes.1 How this sub
merged faculty is able to obtain glimpses of the future
we do not know; —which brings us to one of the most
curious and interesting features of communication—the
element of Time.
1 Even as I write this, I wonder. —In the Revue Mitapsychique of May-June,
1911, a photograph is reproduced of a collective vision seen by several persons,
in a crystal. We know that thoughts may be photographed. But how should
the thoughts of several persons be sufficiently similar to project the same pic
ture ? If it were only the projection of the thought of one person in the instance
mentioned, why were all able to see the thought-form? It was the smiling
face of a child. Commandant Darget contributes two photographs of thought-
forms to Fernand Girod's book.* But these were made by one person alone,
who concentrated his thoughts upon an object at which he gazed.
* Pour Photographier les Rayons Humains, Fernand Girod. Bibliothique
Generale d'Editions, Paris, 191 2.
139}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Experience leads me to think that only those who have
recently been released from the body have any con
ception of time, as we understand it. Even those who have
not been long out of the body seem to lose the time-sense
very soon. Time, as we arbitrarily measure
it,
does not
seem to exist on any plane other than our own, with the
possible exception of the first state into which the newly-
released consciousness enters. There
is
no subject upon
which communicators are so vague, or about which they
make so many mistakes.
I
once asked for the score of
a
billiard match then being played in another part of
town. The figures given were incorrect at the moment
they were received,1 but proved to be the exact figures
of the score when the match was finished two minutes
later.
It has been said that few communicators are able to
see into the future, so
it
should be explained that in the
instance of the billiard score the experiment was carried
out by
a
very advanced member of our group of operators.
This communicator often took great pains to assist in any
experiment suggested which might be of evidential value.
He made many predictions that were fulfilled; —but
again, in this connection,
it
was evident that he had
great difficulty in distinguishing the future from the
present. He sometimes insisted that an event had taken
place, or was taking place at the moment of communica
tion, which really did take place afew minutes, or hours
,
later.
1
Mr. L. who assisted at this experiment, set his watch with mine before going
to the match, and there was no difference between them when they were
compared on his return home.
MENTAL PHENOMENA
Many predictions that are classed as false would better
be termed inaccurate, and it will be found that in many
instances the inaccuracy lies entirely in the placing of
the event in time. At first glance, the experiment of the
billiard score would be called a failure, but on reflection
it will be clear that it is the more interesting for the
error. Persons who have experimented for years some
times tell me of the recent fulfilment of a prediction made
long ago as though the event were to take place immedi
ately. I refer, of course, to events too unusual and de
tailed to be attributed to coincidence. I believe that
many such predictions are overlooked and are not re
corded because of the misunderstood element of time, or
rather, the non-existence of time-measurement on other
planes of consciousness.
Chapter Three
EVIDENCE
The Contributions of Science —Evidence and Proof—Parallelism and Brain
Surgery—
"That which counts, that which lasts, is the positive
truth we bring out; the true affirmation itself displaces
the false idea, and without the trouble of refuting any
one, proves to be the best refutation."
Henri Bergson.
In this chapter will be given a brief outline of the
various ways in which science has helped to further the
work of psychical research. This assistance often has
come inadvertently through scientists who were opposed
in theory to the idea of Vitalism, or mind's independence of
matter. But in spite of scientific prejudice (which is by
no means universal) some of the discoveries of these very
scientists have strengthened belief in the action of mind
apart from brain, and have demonstrated the existence
of laws and forces of which we were unaware, and with
which we are still unacquainted. It is with such laws and
forces, natural, but still unfamiliar, that experimenters in
psychical phenomena must deal. Why wonder that they
have not yet been able to obtain exact repetitions of
experiments in the psychic laboratory?
When, years ago, Sir William Crookes advanced his
theory of "matter in a fourth state," as shown in experi
ments with the vacuum tube, he foreshadowed the dis
EVIDENCE
coveries of recent years which have made the physical
phenomena of mediumship seem no longer supernatural,
but merely supernormal and rational, as far as the laws
of natural science are known. But it is beginning to be
realised that with all that has been learned, there remain
natural forces and laws as yet unknown. I translate from
Prof. Richet: —"A priori we must admit that this re
lease of force is not incredible; what is known about
natural forces is nothing compared with what is un
known. We may, even should, consider this question a
very elementary one,—Either we do, or do not,—know
all about the natural forces. The hypothesis that all
natural forces are known to us is too absurd to be dis
cussed. What would be impossible to believe is that
there is no physical force which has escaped our feeble
senses, and that there is no existing vibration with which
we are unacquainted."
The physicist and the astronomer have a broader out
look and more congenial experimental conditions than
students of some other branches of science. Already they
have contributed much to the mass of evidence in favor of
survival. Prominent among them are Camille Flam-
marion, Sir Oliver Lodge, and Prof. W. J. Crawford.1
1 Sir Wm. Crookes' Researches. Two Worlds Pub. Co. Manchester, 1904,
2d edition.
Transcendental Physics, Prof. Zollner, trans, by C. C. Massey. Banner of
Light Pub. Co., Boston, 190 1, 4th edition.
The Making of Man, Lodge. Hodder & Stoughton, London, 1924.
Man and the Universe, Lodge. Methuen & Co., London, 1908.
The Survival of Man, Lodge. Methuen & Co., London, 1909.
La Mort et Son Mystere, Flammarion, Three vols. Bibliothique de Philo
sophic Spiritualiste, Paris, Vol. 1, Avant la Mort, 1920, Vol. 2, Autour de la
Mort, 1921, Vol. 3, Apris la Mort, 1922.
(43)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
The light thrown in recent years on the structure of the
atom; the modern comprehension of the varying densities
of matter; advancing knowledge of radio-activity; —all
these contributions of research in natural science have led
to a more rational explanation of telekinetic phenomena.
Meanwhile, biology has shown processes in its labora
tories which are strikingly analogous to those of the
seance room. Dr. Geley has likened the exteriorisation
of ectoplasm, and its organisation into forms, to the
histolysis of the insect, and the development of the
foetus. Sir Oliver Lodge draws attention to the pseudo-
pods of the amoeba as being analogous to the ectoplasmic
extensions of limbs. Prof. Hans Driesch says of biological
processes: —"It is a step towards unification to know that
the normal, vital fact, and the metapsychical fact, so
far as physical exteriorisation goes, coincide in their
execution, due to an all-acting causality which directs
matter."
These men of broad vision refuse to see a purely me
chanical process in normal and supernormal steps in
evolution. They have had the courage to face the task
of trying to synthesise and coordinate some of the mass
of material which has been so patiently accumulated, and
of trying to fit some of it into a great structure, even
though the plan be still dimly seen. Geley calls the
planner "The Directing Idea"; Driesch uses the term
The Reality of Psychic Phenomena, Crawford. Dutton & Co. New York
1916.
Psychic Structures of the Goligher Circle, Crawford. Dutton & Co., New
York, 1918.
(44)
EVIDENCE
"Entelechy," or "All-acting Causality"; and Sir Oliver
calls it "God." The name is of little consequence. The
important fact is that such men accept a higher intelli
gence directing the mechanical bio-chemical processes,
instead of postulating a mechanical process which governs
the higher faculties.
Biologists have been slow to abandon the materialistic
viewpoint, although they have better opportunities for
obtaining exact experimental proof of their facts than
scientists in some other branches. But some very eminent
men in this branch of science are beginning to find that the
advance made in biology supports the idea of a directing
intelligence throughout nature. This is called the hypo
thesis of Vitalism. The antagonism between biology and
metapsychics grows rapidly less. Prof. Hans Driesch,
mentioned above, is a very eminent scientist of the
University of Leipsig. He wrote an article which first
appeared in the Revue Metapsychique, in which he
strongly supports Dr. Geley's views on Vitalism. In
it he says: "Vitalism is the entrance to a path which
leads to Metapsychics.1 Vitalism can help to free meta-
psychical phenomena from their scientific isolation and
reconcile us to them intellectually." 2
Professor Driesch
was among the one-hundred prominent men who testified
to physical phenomena obtained in 1922 by Schrenck-
Notzing, with the medium Willi Schneider.
1The term "Metapsychics" was suggested by Prof. Richet in 1905 in his
presidential address in London, to the S. P. R.
'Revue Metapsychique, Jan.-Feb., 1924. The German text appeared in
Psychische Studien, Jan. 1925, and an English translation was published,
Metapsychical Phenomena from the Biological View-point, in the Journal of
the A. S. P. R., May 1925.
(4Sl
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Just as research in biology, chemistry, and physics has
aided in the study of physical phenomena, the advance in
psycho-therapeutics has been valuable in gaining an
understanding of mental manifestations. Study of hyp
notic trance has cleared the field of much misapprehension.
Some of the cases which were supposed to be Obsession
or Possession have been found to be due to dissociation
of personality (Split Personality), instead of to an in
fluence by an exterior intelligence. There remain, how
ever, cases which seem inexplicable by the hypothesis of
subconscious activity. (See Part II Chapter III.) 1
It will be seen that science has offered what such men
as Lodge, Driesch, Geley, Sir William Barrett and many
others consider definite proof of a directing intelligence
throughout nature.
"Proof" is a word that should be used with caution.
Some claim that spirit intervention is proven when an
automatist is able to receive messages on the Ouija
while blindfolded, and when the letters on the board have
been transposed without his knowledge. Certainly it is
evidential, but it is not proof. Transposition of the
1 A famous case of Possession is "The Lurancy Vannum Case." See The
Human Personality, Myers, Vol. I, page 360.
Dr. Morton Prince, who recorded the "Sally Beauchamp Case" claims
it to be a case of dissociation. See The Human Personality, Vol. 1, pages 62-3,
341.344, 3 5*- Vol. 2, pages 140, 199.
For other cases of dissociation see:
Nluroses et Idles Fixes, Pierre Janet. Felix Alcan, Paris, 1898.
Phinomines Psychiques, Maxwell. Felix Alcan, Paris, 1904.
Recherches sur la Mediumnitl, Delanne. Lib. des Sciences Psychiques,
Paris, 1902.
Reviews of Hypnotism and of Abnormal Psychology for the last 25 years.
A Dissociation of Personality, Dr. Morton Prince. Turner, Boston, 1906.
(Sally Beauchamp), etc.
(46}
EVIDENCE
senses is supposed to be rare, but the fact that for many
years it has been known to exist precludes the use of
so strong a word as "proof," in reference to the blind
folded automatist of the Ouija. As long ago as 1887,
Prof. Fontan of Toulon experimented with a French
sailor who was able, in response to suggestion made during
hypnotic trance, to "see with his fingers." Blindfolded,
and in a dark room, this man sorted wools of different
colors, and picked out photographs. It was thought,
at first, that he could not do this unless he were allowed
to touch the objects with his fingers; but when the wools
were placed under glass it was found that by passing
his fingers over the glass, he could indicate the positions
of the wools of different colors. Dr. Pagenstecher's
experiments with Maria R. de Z. show instances of
transposition of the senses, and from time to time we
hear of similar cases.1
Many persons begin to feel that the lines defining
"scientific proof" have been too abitrarily drawn, es
pecially by the adversaries of psychical research. If
the term be used in the strict sense, meaning the demon
stration of a fact by laboratory methods —exact repeti
tion—objective results—why are not the many accepted
teachings of astronomy and physics which are undemon-
strable, questioned? Numerous conclusions reached in
these branches of scientific research are based solely upon
deductions drawn from observation of phenomena. This
liberty of deduction is not permitted to the psychical
1 Cosmic Relations and Immortality, Henry Holt. Houghton Mifflin Co.,
New York, 1919, pages 26-7.
(471
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
researcher by his critics. The assumption in regard to
his conclusions
is,
that
a
fact which has not been demon
strated in
a
manner that explains its mechanical process,
does not exist; and that all hypotheses concerning
it
must be untrue. In psychical research the burden of
proof rests entirely upon the man who advances an
hypothesis. Those who deny
it
are not expected to
prove its fallacy. It
is
curious that this inverted reason
ing should be applied chiefly to psychical phenomena.
Nevertheless, scientists begin to admit that a sufficient
mass of cumulative evidence must be given some con
sideration, and that deductions based upon long series of
observations have more weight than negation based merely
upon prejudice.
The difficulties in accumulating evidence for psychical
research are more discouraging than
in
other branches of
study where laboratory methods of experimentation may
be followed under more exact conditions, and with more
certainty of result. But the evidence which has been
collected has reached tremendous proportions. It has
forced many changes upon classical psychology, and has
obliged psychologists to choose between blind negation,
and willingness to examine facts offered them for observa
tion. Doubtless, the soul will never be analysed in
a
chemical laboratory. Physiologists will be unable to
dissect it; and they, the most strongly materialistic
among scientists will be slow to admit the existence
of more than the evanescent personality.
Brain specialists, always loath to admit that know
ledge may exist which
is
not registered on the brain and
(48)
EVIDENCE
which does not perish with
it,
are beginning to yield,
inevitably, to the pressure of evidence. Experiments
with very young children reveal knowledge beyond the
capacity of brains so young; knowledge that cannot be
explained by telepathic communication from living per
sons.1 Scientific journals have reported cases of persons
whose injuries have necessitated the removal of
a
large
portion of the brain, and whose memory and power of
thought were unimpaired by the loss of much cerebral
matter, or by damage to centers which are supposed to
be necessary to memory and consciousness.
Dr. Troude writes: "As M. Bergson foresaw in 1897,
the hypothesis of the brain as conservative of memory
images, must be renounced once and for all, and other
ideas as to the nature of its role in the act of memory
must be accepted. The brain, far from being indis
pensable to thought, seems necessary to
it
only as
a
prolongation in space; the motor accompaniment."
2
Cor-
nillier says: "Nothing, absolutely nothing, gives us
reason to suppose that the neurons are capable of these
tremendous faculties (the faculties called 'supernormal').
The anatomo-physical facts very clearly confirm the pri
mordial induction of metapsychical philosophy: —The
essentials
of
individual psychism are not governed
by
the
functions
of
the nerve-centers." And Geley in De L'ln-
conscient au Conscient states that: —"It
is
needless to
1
Les En/ants et Apparitions des De/unts, Bozzano. Revue Spirite, Paris,
Oct.-Nov.-Dec, 1923.
Les Phlnomines de Hantise, Bozzano. Editions Jean Meyer, Paris.
Phlnomines Psychiques au Moment de la Mort, Bozzano. Editions Jean
Meyer, Paris.
1
Cerveau et PensSe, Troude. Revue Scientifique, Paris, 1920.
{49}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
call attention to the fact that it is impossible to find
cerebral localisations of the subconscious faculties. —The
facts prove that the manifestations of individual activity
greatly exceed the capacities and limits of the organism.
"In reality, like the organism itself, the cerebral psychism
originates in, ends in, and is governed by, a superior
dynamo-psychism which is largely subconscious."
And in pointing out the inadequacy of classical psy
chology to account for the subconscious faculties Geley
says: —"In a word, this formidable induction brings us
face to face with a still more formidable question. We
are forced to ask ourselves whether classical psycho-phy
siology is not simply a monument of errors? From this
point it is oui duty to consider all of its teachings, above
all, to examine in the light of facts, its famous dogma;
the famous dogma upon which it entirely rests, —that of
psycho-physiological parallelism .
' '
From these, and other sources, it may be seen that the
hypothesis of Parallelism, or interdependence of brain
and thought,—mind and matter, is being attacked from
many positions. 1
To most thoughtful persons the material-
1 Cosmic Relations fc? Immortality, Henry Holt. Houghton Mifflin Co., New
York, 191 9.
Brain and Personality, Wm. Hanna Thomson. Dodd Mead & Co., New
York.
Matter and Memory, Bergson, trans, by Paul & Palmer. George Allen &
Unwin, London, and Macmillan Co., New York, 1911-19.
Annates des Sciences Psychiques, Paris, 1917. See notes by Drs. Guepin,
Robinson, Iturricha, Hallopeau.
Bulletin de la SociltS Chirurgique de Paris, Report by Dr. Vandenbosche.
Annates des Sciences Psychiques, Jan. 23, 1918, Report by Dr. Le Fort.
Bulletin de la Sociiti Chirurgique de Paris, 1918, Report by Dr. Regard.
Revue Neurologique, Paris, 1917, page 174.
Archives Italiennes de Biologie, Vol. LXVI, page 47, Report by Roa.
{50}
EVIDENCE
istic hypothesis—that the higher faculties,—inspiration
of genius, clairvoyance and other faculties of the sub
conscious, originate in and are governed by the brain,
—seems illogical. That these higher faculties should
direct and condition the physical, and that the brain
should merely be the instrument, not the origin of thought,
appears rational in view of such pathological facts as
have just been referred to. A directing intelligence
throughout nature, governing physical changes of evolu
tion, impelling toward higher forms, is in no way contra
dictory to the findings of modern science. It rational
ises the conception of the whole to the philosophy of
the Epicureans: —"Out of nothing, nothing comes."
That a blind bio-chemical process should be productive
of the omniscient faculties of the subconscious, appears,
in the light of modern scientific facts, unthinkable.
Annales Medico Psychologiques, Paris, 1917, pages 101-3. The same 1916,
page 194. The same, 191 8, pages 241-6.
Revue Mitaphysique, Paris, Jan.-March, 1920, Article by M. Mourge.
Zeitschrijtjur Artsjorth, 1915, Vol. XII.
(5O
Chapter Four
SURVIVAL
Records—Complex Phenomena—Telepathy in Support of Survival —After
Death Conditions —Summary —
"Nay, in the infinite Universe man may now feel,
for the first time, at home. The worst fear is over; the
true security is won. The worst fear was the fear of
spiritual extinction or spiritual solitude; the true security
is in the telepathic law."
Iare and method in keeping a record of psychical
experiences is more important than is generally
understood. Notes should be made promptly and signa
tures of witnesses should be obtained before there is
danger of their impressions becoming doubtful and in
distinct. People wonder at the frequent triviality of
incidents recorded. It is thought that the recorder must
indeed be credulous to consider an allusion to a brown
tea-pot or an old rocking chair of enough interest to be
preserved. Dr. Hyslop has pointed out that often,
among these much ridiculed trifles, we are likely to
stumble upon something of evidential value.1 The ten
dency of laymen is to record only startling and dramatic
incidents because the importance of faithfully recording
uninteresting matter is not understood. We are in-
1 See incident of "Uncle Michael's whistle" in Our Unseen Guest, Anon.
Harper Bros., New York, 1920, pages 38-43.
F. W. H. Myers.
{52}
SURVIVAL
competent to judge of the value of what we record. It
is for the experienced investigator to weigh and to reject
what he considers irrelevant, according to his knowledge
and experience in analysis.
The importance of accurate detail in keeping records
cannot be over-emphasised. There is a class of phenome
na that begin with some trivial manifestation of which
the significance does not appear until later, and therefore
is lost unless all trivial happenings be recorded. Some
times long intervals separate incidents which really are
connected, and which form a chain of events of which
the climax may not develop until the incidents leading
up to it have been forgotten. Such cases have involved
prevision, occasionally two or more sources of informa
tion, and show a careful plan that, after a time, becomes
quite clear. That such a plan should be carried out by
discarnate intelligences seems less difficult to believe than
that it should originate in, and be followed out by, the
subconscious minds of two or more living persons un
known to each other, and sometimes a hemisphere apart.
Opportunities for studying these phenomena are rare.
Only trained investigators realise the necessity of re
cording the trivial; hence the sequence of many an interest
ing mental phenomenon is broken, its beginning lost, and
the significance of its climax becomes negligible. One
reason why we seldom read of such cases is that the
scientific investigator rarely offers to the public an inci
dent which was not immediately recorded and witnessed.
He rightly restricts himself to publishing only such
phenomena as result under experimental conditions. In
(53)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
an address to a London audience in 1905 Prof. Richet
said of this:—"If sometimes one hesitates to speak of
incidents one has witnessed, it is not only because a
doubt exists; it also is because it does not suffice to have
observed an isolated incident. Science is not a recital of
one fact, or even of several facts. It is more complicated
than a series of incidents piled one on another. It de
mands that these scattered facts be more or less co
ordinated; with proofs, demonstrations, and repetitions
that clarify them. As we hope to see Psychical Science
emerge from the experimental stage, we wait until experi
mentation shall have completed, and more or less
elucidated, an isolated empirical incident. And often
we are obliged to wait a long time.
1
Experimentia
fallax, judicium difficile,' said Hippocrates. Also there
are certain moral proofs which are convincing to
us but which cannot be considered convincing to the
public.
"We might relate many curious and instructive inci
dents that have nothing to support their scientific value
beside our personal convictions. These cases are not
entitled to be accepted by science, and I consider that,
provisionally, it is better not to publish them. I do not
say this through lack of courage, or through regard for
public opinion, but out of respect for very legitimate scien
tific criticism." 1
1 It will be seen by Dr. Geley's letter (page 94) that this also was his opinion
regarding the incident of materialisation of blood of which he told me. As a
mere student to whom no one looks for a scientific opinion, I am more free to
publish such incidents as will be found in Part II, leaving the reader to form
his own conclusions.
{ 54)
SURVIVAL
This does not mean that such incidents are of no value,
but only that as yet they are without value for scientific
purposes except as cumulative evidence. Often they are
not even noticed for the reason mentioned—failure to
record the first trivial incident.
The complex phenomena of which I have spoken as
apparently having the elements of both the subjective
and objective (mental and physical) are very puzzling,
and are not commonly observed. Nevertheless they
undoubtedly occur. When an apparition is seen,—even
when it conveys supernormally acquired knowledge —it
may still be considered a purely subjective, or mental,
phenomenon; — an exteriorised telepathic impression
whether veridical or not, according to analysis. But when
this manifestation is accompanied by some disturbance
of matter; when some object actually is displaced; this
presents a problem not easy to solve. When such a
manifestation occurs in a half-waking state the displace
ment of an object may be attributed to somnambulism
on the part of the percipient. But if he is fully awake,
or if others see the displacement of the object without
visible contact, even though they do not see the appari
tion, then somnambulism or trance-automatism is out of
the question. These manifestations are too involved for
the present discussion, nor would I presume to offer a
personal opinion about them. That they have occurred,
I know, whatever may be the explanation.
F. W. H. Myers has stated that the strongest argu
ment in support of survival is the fact of Telepathy.
Dr. Hyslop also felt that some telepathic messages were
(55)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
indicative of survival. During the last year of Dr.
Hodgson's life I made some experiments in telepathy
for him. 1
He was especially interested in telepathy at a
long distance, and Mr. W., a friend of mine, was success
ful in sending me such messages. I did not send as well
as I received, and only got a few clear messages through
to him. We received by automatic writing. During the
rater experiments at very long distances we had no
legular hour for the attempt. Sometimes when I took
up the pencil the words were written, "not yet," or
"later." This is mentioned because it may imply "de
layed telepathy," of which much has been written. One
of Mr. W.'s messages came to me in St. Louis, from
South America. It gave the correct name of the port
from which it was sent, and the date of arrival in Buenos
Ayres of a sailing vessel which had been more than two
months at sea. These statements were verified by the
steamship company. The message came in this form:
"W. says to tell you—etc.," and was signed with the
name of W.'s father whom I never met, and who died
before I met the son. Dr. Hodgson commented on the
fact that most of the messages I received from W. were
worded as though they had been brought by a third
person. When I mentioned this to Dr. Hyslop he re
plied that to him it was not at all inconceivable that
some telepathic impressions should be conveyed, or at
least, assisted, by discarnate intelligences. I afterwards
found that W. was in the habit of speaking the messages
1 Richard Hodgson, head of the American branch of the S. P. R. which existed
until the formation of the American S. P. R.
{56}
SURVIVAL
aloud, and was firmly convinced that his father acted as
a messenger between us.
A relative on whom I relied in emergencies had a way
of walking in before I had sent for him saying, "Well
Nell, what is it? I had a hunch." He used to say that
he often received a summons in the form of a voice which
said, "Nellie wants you." The odd part of this was that
he himself never called me by that name, but thought of
me and addressed me, as "Nell." This same boy was
out hunting with a friend. They separated for a time,
and he told me that while he stood alone in a field he
heard a voice say, "Sit down. Quick!" He dropped
to the ground, feeling rather foolish, and a shot passed
over his head which would have hit him had he been
standing. This incident is not mentioned as necessarily
being indicative of spirit intervention. We are told that
our own subconscious selves sometimes are aware of
danger and are able to warn us. It seems to be some
thing like the consciousness that warns animals of hostile
conditions. But if the embodied consciousness has such
powers, of what may it not be capable when freed from
mechanical limitations?
Except in a general way, and in their special bearing
upon difficulties in communication, I have not felt curious
about after-death conditions, particularly as most state
ments concerning them are unverifiable.1 However,
most persons seem eager to question communicators on
1
Difficulties of Psychic Communication, Horace Leaf, Occult Review,
London, June, 1925, is a very concise and rational review of the difficulties of
communication.
(57)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
this subject, and there appears to be no unwillingness to
reply to such inquiry, —merely great difficulty of expres
sion in terms comprehensible to our plane of intelligence.
Many books have been written containing records of
communications describing conditions of life after death.1
These vary widely in detail but there is a certain una
nimity in the statements. Such descriptions will not
appeal to everyone, but even on this plane many condi
tions must be accepted which are not at all to our taste.
It is significant that many such descriptions come through
automatists who resent them and who prefer to think of
an orthodox "heaven" far from any knowledge of earthly
affairs; thus it is not apparent that subconsciousness has
colored the statements. As for a knowledge of condi
tions here being distressing to our discarnate friends, as
so often is claimed, it is to be hoped that they are be
ginning to understand the realities of life a little better
so that the transient nature of some of our difficulties
is more obvious to them; that they see "With larger,
other eyes than ours, to make allowance for us all." So
many persons have told me that they preferred not to
think of their dead as being near them or as having any
knowledge of what takes place here, because such know
ledge must make them unhappy. It does not seem to
occur to them that if this nearness is a possibility, their
wishing it or not cannot entirely alter the fact although
'
After Death, Wm. T. Stead. George H. Doran, New York, 1914.
Apris la Mart, Flammarion. Bibliotheque de Philosophic Spiritualiste,
Paris, (Third vol. of La Mart et son Mystire).
Spirit World and Spirit Life, Fred Rafferty. Rowny Press, Los Angeles, 1921.
(58)
SURVIVAL
it may make it more difficult for the discarnate friends
to approach.
In the communications which I have recorded for many
years, almost every communicator has spoken regret
fully of the tendency on the part of his friends to think
of him as changed, and remote. Communicators say
that some among them are unwilling, others unable, to
emerge from the condition into which they first enter,
until they have reached someone here if only in close
communion of thought. They tell us that those who
have established communication with us have thereby
enlarged their sphere of usefulness and have added to
their powers for advancement. Instead of communica
tion tending to keep them "earth-bound," as so often is
claimed, some communicators who have been in touch
with us for a time say that it has helped to fit them for
something higher, and that we may only seldom hear
from them again although they may often be near us.
In the records just mentioned, the most powerful com
municator was not heard from for several months. It
was explained that he must devote himself to different
work for a time as he had been permitted for so long to
spend effort in demonstrations for convincing evidence.
(See Ring Incident —Part II)
[Communicators speak of their occupations which seem
to be as varied as those upon this plane. Apparently they
may follow natural taste and inclination. The scientist
speaks of research; the physician of healing; the musician
of harmony. Certainly their statements about their ac
tivities will not encourage those whose idea of eternal
1 59)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
bliss is inaction and contemplation, without any kind of
effort. Service seems to be the universal creed,—the
ladder by which all are climbing to higher powers, for
higher service. In different accounts of life after death
one finds certain divergences of opinion, as on this plane.
On the subject of altruistic aims and progress toward
higher development the statements are similar although
there seems to be great difficulty in expressing ideas in
our language, and in our limited mode of thought.
Certain communicators appear to realise conditions on
this plane, and to understand them as well, or better than
before. Others seem to have difficulty in "getting near,"
and in seeing physical objects clearly. Indeed I often
wonder whether any of them really see the physical
object itself. In some communications there is strong
indication that the communicator sees only the aura, or
etheric counterpart of the physical object which he claims
to see. / have only noted this peculiarity in messages pur
porting to come from discarnate entities. My experience
with clairvoyants has shown no evidence of this inability,
on the part of living persons, to distinguish between the
physical and its aura.
The strongest argument in favor of survival and the
reality of communication is the fact that many scientists
are abandoning the hypothesis that consciousness cannot
exist after the brain has been injured, or has ceased to
function. If one be willing to grant the existence of
consciousness independent of the brain while still in the
body, why should it be difficult or illogical to assume that
intelligence may survive bodily death, and that it may
{60}
SURVIVAL
continue to possess psychic power which is at least equal
to that possessed when still in the body? In other words,
why should it not retain the power to communicate
telepathically? I quote from The Human Personality by
F. W. H. Myers: "This is the answer to the ancient fear;
the fear lest man's fellowships be the outward and his
solitude the inward thing; the fear lest all close linking
with our fellows be the mere product of the struggle for
existence, —of the tribal need of strength and cohesion; —
the fear that if love and virtue thus arose, love and
virtue may likewise perish. It is an answer to the dread
that separate centres of conscious life must always be
strangers, and often foes; their leagues and fellowships
interested and illusory; their love the truce of a moment
amid infinite inevitable war. Such fears, I say, vanish
when we learn that it is the soul in man which links him
to other souls; the body which dissevers even while it
seems to unite; so that 'no man liveth to himself nor
dieth to himself,' but in a sense which goes deeper than
metaphor, 'We are every one members of one another.'
Like atoms, like suns, like galaxies, our spirits are sys
tems of forces which vibrate continually to each other's
attractive power.
"All this as yet is dimly adumbrated; it is a first hint
of a scheme of thought which it may well take centuries
to develop. But can we suppose that, when once this
conception of the bond between all souls has taken root,
men will turn back from it to the old exclusiveness, the
old controversy? Will they not see that this world-
widening knowledge is both old and new, that Die
{6i}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Geisterwelt ist nicht versMossen? That always have
such revelations been given, but develop now into a
mightier meaning, —with the growth of wisdom in those
who send them, and in us who receive?"
(62)
PART TWO
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES
Chapter One
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
Incident of Locket —Remarks on Mr. Hannegan's Mediumship —Record —
Attitude of Press—Hyslop's Comments and Letters —Incidents of:—
White Roses—Lost Coins—Desk—Diagnosis —Materialisations of Blood —
Emerald Ring —
Incident of Locket
"How pure at heart and sound in head,
With what divine affections bold
Should be the man whose thought would hold
An hour's communion with the dead."
Tennyson.
TT is often asked how I first became interested in
Psychical investigations. The question is easily
answered. The phenomena were forced upon my attention
by spontaneous manifestations which began several
months after my brother's death in 1893. So great was
my dread of self-deception that until the final events of
the incident which I am about to relate, I refused to
accept these manifestations as being due to anything
more than subconscious activity on my part. Thus it
will be seen that I remained sceptical of the spiritistic
hypothesis for nearly eight years, in spite of my brother's
continued efforts to convince me of his presence.
In the winter of 1896 Mr. Lambert, to whom I was
engaged, spent a few weeks in Paris. He met there a
friend who had just come from Lucerne where she had
{65}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
attended a spiritistic seance. This lady told Mr. Lambert
that she had received a message in automatic writing for
him, and asked him who his friend "the Baron" was.
The message was partly undecipherable; it began: —
"Tell Jordan [Mr. L.] not to—"
became illegible and was
signed "Baron." The recipient of the message knew
nothing of me or my brother Baron, but as Mr. Lambert
could think of no one with the title of baron he immedi
ately thought of my brother, and wrote me of the incident.
Mr. Lambert and I were married the following May,
1897, and the incident was forgotten until we were
reminded of it in the summer of 1900. We had stopped
at a little hotel in Lucerne on our way to Seelisberg.
Our room was long and narrow; the two beds were at one
end of the room so that we faced the other end of the long
apartment. During the night I was wakened from a sound
sleep by a kiss on my forehead, and I heard my brother's
voice say:—"Nell, I am trying to tell you where my
locket is. It is not lost. Just put away."
By the faint light which came through the window from
the street I saw that Mr. Lambert was asleep. I woke
him and told him of my strange "dream." I said it could
only have been a dream because the locket was safe with
my jewels which I had given him to put in the Safe
Deposit before leaving St. Louis. He replied: "It was
not a dream for I can see Baron." He pointed to the other
end of the room and I saw a radiant, smiling vision of my
brother; only the head and shoulders. It was very
luminous and lighted that entire end of the room. Up to
this time I had been unable to visualise him except as I
(66)
Portrait of Mr. Hannegan at Twenty-Six Years of Ace.
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
had last seen him, greatly changed in death; this had
distressed me very much so it is noteworthy that I
should have seen a beautiful and life-like vision. It
lasted for several moments and faded very gradually while
we watched it.
We returned to St. Louis in the fall, to illness and
various absorbing matters, during which time we rarely
thought of the incident. I had no occasion to wear
jewels and it was nearly a year before I went to the Safe
Deposit for them. The box was empty ! During another
year detectives searched for the jewels. It seemed a
complete mystery. One day Mr. Lambert told me that
he was giving up a little private office and disposing of the
furniture. He had two safes there and I asked him to
send me one of them for the high silver. When it came to
the house I requested him to remove some of the parti
tions; in doing so he found a secret drawer of which he
had forgotten the existence. In it was the case with my
jewels. He then recalled that when I had given them to
him to take to the Safe Deposit he had stopped at the
office, had been detained there, and had put them in the
safe temporarily, intending to take them to the bank later
in the day. In the meantime so many business matters
came up which had to be arranged before leaving that
night that he completely forgot them.
Of course I realise that this knowledge remained in Mr.
Lambert's subconscious memory. Still, the threads of
this incident seem to have run through a number of years.
First, in 1896, the message from Lucerne signed "Baron,"
through a person who had not known me or my brother.
(67)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Then our collective vision in 1900, in the same town where
the first message was received. Finally, the recovery of
the jewels in 1901. Was the right safe selected by sub
consciousness or by chance? I am quite ready to grant
the possibility of either. But several coincidences linked
together have very much the appearance of design. For
all this to have been subconscious activity on the part of
Mr. Lambert would mean that he must first have produced
so strong an impression upon me as to waken me from
sound sleep, make me hear my brother's voice and the
words about the locket {which I thought was in the Safe
Deposit and which Mr. Lambert did not know was with my
jewels); then, to have selected, automatically, the right
safe to send home. Note that nothing whatever was said
of my jewels during the vision; only about an article
intimately connected with my brother. It is very char
acteristic that a communicator should emphasise some
detail about an article intimately connected with his own
earth-life, and ignore quite important things which had
no personal association with himself. This is constantly
observed.
That all this is not beyond the powers claimed for the
faculty of "Cryptesthesia," I admit. The powers of the
subconscious faculties are unknown, and according to Dr.
Osty, Dr. Richet and other investigators, they are un
limited to the point of omniscience. Personally I am
beginning to have grave doubts as to the analysis of
Cryptesthesia as it is accepted by these authorities. But
the most materialistic of sceptics must find this incident
impressive, and the probability of its being evidential of
{68}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
my brother's identity was enough to make me study more
seriously. It really was not until the fall of 1901, when
my jewels were missed, that I began to think that the
vision of my brother had been veridical and was a link in
a chain of evidence.
Until our meeting with Mr. Hannegan, the medium
mentioned in my record, I had attempted no experimenta
tion except occasional automatic writing; but I had by
that time read a number of books on psychical research,
including the reports of the S. P. R. which I joined in 1905.
Will Hannegan was a boy of twenty-three at the time of
the incidents which follow and which are abstracted from
my record. He was a trained nurse, who felt the need of
a change of work after having been for a long time on a
very trying case. His sister was a stenographer in Mr.
Lambert's private office and laboratory, and through her
the brother obtained a position in the laboratory.
A few months later Mr. Lambert telephoned me from
the office to say that he had found Mr. Hannegan much
frightened because a large, heavy laboratory table on
which he had rested his hand, had been levitated. This
was in April, 1908. Mr. Lambert brought the brother and
sister home with him that evening, and we found that Mr.
Hannegan had a gift for automatic writing, of which he
himself was unaware. His only experience with it had
been a month before, when, on March 4, he had spent the
evening with some friends who suggested trying table-
tilting. Mr. Hannegan was disgusted and went and sat
apart from them, but the table moved toward him. His
(69}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
friends persuaded him to join them around the table,
which immediately was turned up-side-down in his lap.
They insisted on his trying to write. When he took the
pencil it wrote in a large, bold hand, the name "Joe Went-
worth." The writing went on to explain that this was the
name of Mr. Hannegan's guide. A number of mental
questions asked by the sitters were answered. Mr. Han-
negan had not been interested, but told me this in answer
to my question as to what experiences he had had. This
incident, and the levitation of the laboratory table a
month later, were the only manifestations he had noticed.
He was quite willing to try to write for Mr. Lambert;
thus a series of sittings began which lasted for many
months.
Although I myself have very little psychic power, I seem
to possess some quality that assists its development in
others. From the time that Mr. Hannegan began to write
and to sit for other phenomena we noticed that he seemed
able to produce better manifestations when I was with
him, and when I held his hand, than were obtained with
the assistance of any other of our group.1 He always
seemed reluctant to attempt any experiment unless I was
present. With a few exceptions, he was awake and fully
conscious during demonstrations, although sometimes he
became rigid. At first, when he seemed inclined to become
entranced, I would not allow it because I was too unfamiliar
with such conditions to feel sure that it would be safe for
"A friend once said I was a "catalytic agent." I asked my son to explain
what this meant and he replied quaintly that I was O. Henry's "Fourth Ingre
dient,
"
the onion in the stew. That while a stew could not be made of an
onion alone, it greatly enhanced a stew made of something else.
l70]
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
him. During the second year of our experiments I was
told by Joe Wentworth that it would do no harm and that
I need not interfere. Occasional trances occurred after
that;—only twice during regular sittings, but sometimes in
connection with unsought, spontaneous phenomena. Dur
ing the two trances which took place at sittings there was
a manifestation of an independent voice.
No doubt, had Mr. Hannegan been in the hands of a
more experienced person than I, his mediumship would
have been handled in a way that would have developed it
upon certain specific lines. We found the spontaneous
phenomena more interesting than the usual manifestations
that are sought in the seance room and which are apt to
be stereotyped. Even now, after much study, I believe
that a higher order of phenomena is obtained by allowing
manifestations to develop without too much interference
and suggestion on the part of the sitters.
Mr. Hannegan's mediumship developed with great
rapidity. Even at the first three sittings a great variety
of phenomena took place. (See incident of White Roses.)
After the first evening I began to keep a record; steno
graphic notes were taken by Miss Hannegan and typed
on the following day when they were submitted to
witnesses for confirmation.
Those who have read Dr. Hyslop's comments on my
record in the Proceedings of the A.S.P.R. of 1908 may
recall that when the volume went to press he was still
strongly inclined to the hypothesis of collective hallucina
tion as an explanation of apparent physical phenomena.
This was partly because of the emphasis laid by our
{71}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
communicators upon certain incidents which appeared to
be objective, but which they were careful to explain were
purely veridical hallucination. At the same time there
were other incidents such as the blood incidents, of which
the objectivity was insisted upon. From a letter of Dr.
Hyslop's which I quote, written to me about a month
after the 1908 Proceedings went to press, it will be seen
that already he was beginning to feel he might be forced
to accept the reality of physical phenomena:—
"I have just received word from Carrington in Italy,
that he got genuine physical phenomena through Eusapia
Palladino. And Prof. James (Wm.) has just reported to
me of some that he witnessed in Bar Harbor. So it is more
than probable that my straining of the mental theory will
have to be abandoned in the future." In the fall of 1908
when the incident of the emerald ring was concluded,
Dr. Hyslop was deeply impressed and I believe this in
fluenced him very much in his reconsideration of the
hypothesis of collective hallucination as an explanation
of all purported physical phenomena. He felt that the
time was not ripe for the publication of the ring incident,
but events in psychical research have moved so rapidly
since then that possibly he would not think it premature
at the present moment. Dr. Hyslop's open mind made
him prepared to abandon, at any time, the most cherished
opinion, if he felt that there was adequate reason for a
change of viewpoint.
The publication in the Proceedings of the A.S.P.R. of
our first series of sittings, resulted in very unpleasant
notoriety. It was unusual at that time for experimenters
{7M
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
in private circles to allow the use of their names in such
reports. Dr. Hyslop warned us that it might lead to some
annoyance, but we felt, as he did, that if the names were
withheld the material would lose much of its value.
Neither Dr. Hyslop nor we had any idea that the publica
tion of the report would excite interest outside of the
limited circle of the readers of the Proceedings. Dr.
Hyslop himself gave nothing to the press which came from
private sources; but a news correspondent happened to
look at a copy of the Proceedings in the New York Public
Library. He wired the St. Louis papers and this precipi
tated a campaign of publicity that amounted to persecu
tion. In fairness I should say that I do not think there
was any malicious intent on the part of the press, nor
were all of the accounts wholly inaccurate. The news
papers made the usual mistake of sending out for inter
views young reporters who knew absolutely nothing of
the subject (few persons in St. Louis did, at that time),
and whose duty was to get a story, whether or not it had
anything to do with facts. The following letters from Dr.
Hyslop will give an idea that the experience was anything
but agreeable —
519 West 149th St., New York, Oct. 23, 1908.
My Dear Mr. and Mrs. Lambert:
I hurried off my first letter without saying all that I wished
to say. The newspapers have learned that they can get
nothing from me before publishing what we have to say, and
that I do nothing but refer them to the publications, when
they come to me, hence they let me alone. I always refuse to
talk. Some men in the newspaper business have become
173)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
members, and hence in that way they find out at once what
is doing. I never give them private information. In this
way the Herald must have gotten the information it pub
lished, if information it was. I have not yet seen it.
I think by the time this letter reaches you, you will find
things have quieted down to the calm stage on the part
of both public and newspapers. But I think still more
confidently that the best defense would be to let the publica
tion of the other report go on. It will probably not be noticed
at all. Whether noticed or not, however, your best defense
is to face the enemy and they will run. There are truths
here and they are too important for the world to ignore them.
I do not think anything is gained by running from them. All
great truths have to face ridicule at first, and then, —blessed
be those who did not care for ridicule. You come at a time
when the public is crying for the light, and I think you might
be proud of adding to the facts which the whole future of
humanity will cherish and respect. The newspaper excite
ment will be a nine days' wonder and then subside, and in
two years most of the very men on the papers now exploiting
it,
will have forgotten that they were interested in it. The
few quiet people who read, will have an abiding sense of
gratitude that the facts have been made known.
I
trust therefore that you will simply let the article go
on. It
is
so necessary to complete the next number of the
Proceedings already in press. Besides
it
completes
a
valuable
set of experiments which should be published now, and not
separated so far as years will make
it,
from the earlier record.
My intention was to send Mrs. Lambert proofs as soon as
set up. Please take the matter under consideration at once,
and
I
hope you will find that the first thought of prohibition
is
not the best one.
Very sincerely,
James H. Hyslop.
The second series was not withdrawn according to Mr.
Lambert's first impulse. Its publication produced another
{74}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
storm of sensationalism and ridicule in regard to which
Dr. Hyslop wrote—
519 West 149th St., New York, Oct. 29, 1908.
My dear Mrs. Lambert:
Yours came this morning and I am indeed very glad to
have it with its much clearer understanding of the situation
with you. I could not have imagined such audacious conduct
as you describe. I had to exclaim that newspapers are the
modern curse. It will reach a point where the police will
have to interfere with all such things. I had supposed the
annoyance went no further than newspaper talk, but such
a thing as you describe is beyond conceiving in a civilised
world. I think you perfectly correct in saying that St.
Louis is provincial and I do not wonder that you wish your
self out of it.
I am also especially pleased to learn of the mental attitude
of both of you in the situation. For I always had extreme
admiration for the courage you both showed in allowing the
use of your names. I should have counselled more em
phatically for silence in that respect if I had dreamed of any
such annoyance as that to which you have been subjected.
I am glad you feel indifferent to the whole affair and ex
tremely sorry that it has in any respect affected relations
that you wish to conserve. I hope that the public will quiet
down and that the more intelligent part of it will see to
your defense. I wish I could lecture in St. Louis. I would
give two lectures if anyone could arrange for it and I would
take occasion to discuss the problem of psychic research in
a manner that would not interest the yellow journals. I
shall be glad to see Mr. Lambert.
Very sincerely,
James H. Hyslop.
The annoyance expressed by Dr. Hyslop was in no way
due to the garbled interviews and various caricatures of
175)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
himself; these only amused him. Just what I wrote that
so aroused his indignation I do not now recall, but I truly
regret having expressed myself as I did about my "Home
Town." My father loved it; the whole town loved and
honored him; and I have very dear friends in St. Louis.
However, we had been sorely tried. We were obliged to
send Mr. Hannegan and my son out of town because they
were so annoyed on the streets. Reporters went to the
suburb where we had sent them to my father's home, and
tried to bribe the negroes who worked for him and the
neighbors, to tell them where the boys were. As there is
no loyalty greater than that of the negro to white friends
whom he loves, their efforts were fruitless. I found that
the dear old man who lived with my father long before I
was born had refused a hundred and fifty dollars, although
he knew quite well that the boys were at the house, and
they even visited at his cabin.
For days, when Mr. Lambert went down town he was
obliged to hear newsboys with extras shouting my name
and to face the jeers and almost tearful reproaches of our
friends, who, with our families, felt that we had utterly
disgraced them. For ten days I was a prisoner in the
house because there were aways two or three camera men
on guard. Two of them who managed to get into the
house on some pretext were only prevented from taking
my picture off of the wall by the watchfulness of the
servants.
If we ventured to the theater, an usher was sure to
report it behind the scenes, whereupon a comedian would
appear and announce that he "had the Hannegans." On
{76}
Spooks Must Be Careful How They Do
AtfkhUs; Hyslop's Coming to St. Louis
Caricature of Hyslop
From St. Louis Post-Dispatch, January 20, 1909.
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
recovering from the attack he inevitably sang the parody
of the campaign song reproduced on the page 78, while
the gallery joined in the chorus. In New York the pursuit
was kept up and the song greeted us in the vaudeville
theaters. Only in France did we find peace and regain
respectability. All this seems quite inconceivable now,
in 1927. That my old home has grown, since 1908, and
has begun to see the light, is demonstrated by the fact
that a man like Dr. Sullivan was taken to its heart. It
is to be hoped that the city of my birth will accept my
very sincere apology, and my congratulations on its
awakening.
During this time of upheaval Mr. Hannegan went his
way unruffled, attending serenely to his duties; he was
only disturbed on account of the annoyance to Mr.
Lambert to whom he was devoted. He received from
various theatrical managers a number of offers which
amused him very much. We were told of two of them by
automatic writing several days before the letters, bringing
quite fabulous offers, arrived. In his comments Dr.
Hyslop describes Mr. Hannegan as mentally and physi
cally lethargic. This was a mistake, probably due to the
fact that he was very modest and diffident with strangers.
He was, on the contrary, very active; enjoyed being out
of doors with our son and joining in his sports; he had a
keen sense of humor and a ready wit that made us laugh,
even in the most trying circumstances. His only comment
on the unpleasant notoriety was that "we all might live
through it but would never look like anything again."
He seemed perfectly indifferent to public opinion, although
{77}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
I think the entirely illogical suspicions (that it is easy to
replace what one has taken) voiced by so many people
about my emerald ring, must have been hard to bear.
In his report of the Ring Incident Mr. Lambert tried to
make the injustice of these suspicions quite clear; but it
is extraordinary how an idea which once becomes lodged
in the public mind will persist in spite of fact and reason.
Varied and significant experiences of many years have
led me to the conclusion that manifestations such as those
which follow, are governed, not only by natural physical
laws as yet unknown to us, but also by definite spiritual
laws. I firmly believe that too great a knowledge of the
supernormal is very dangerous if it be not accompanied
by a corresponding spiritual development. I believe that
an altruistic motive, the desire to be helpful to the dis-
carnate as well as to those on our own plane, and a desire
to add to the sum of knowledge which may be useful, are
the only safeguards in prolonged and extensive contact
with these forces of which we know so little. It is natural,
and permissible, to approach these mysteries because of
grief and personal loss for which consolation is sought;
but it is unpardonable if the contact which has been
established be abused by constant demands made upon
the ones with whom that contact has been established.
I believe that it is not only unpardonable, but actually
dangerous, to attempt to use that contact for selfish and
material ends. Curiosity or self interest inevitably reacts
upon the seeker in some destructive manner. To seek
communication while the mind is full of selfish or bitter
{78}
H-A DOUBLE N-E-G-A-N !
Har- ri - gan, that's me! me.
WHO
is the man
That make* i he prettj toses del
Hannegan! That's me.
Who is the man
Thai I he snooks are always ghul to »ee !
Hannegan! That's nM.
Kor I'm i1
1
?s
t as oroiiii i>| ray ghosts, yon >
K* an Kmperor. < sar or a King couKI
W ho is i he man
Thai a*he a spirit every time he can?
Ilannagwn! That's me.
CHORUS.
11- A double N
1".
I- AN -pels Iiannegan,
I'r-'v.ii of all the ereepi dope that'a in tr.e;
lHvil
h
man ran mcdinmi/.c agin' mo.
II
A
ilouble
S
K
i;
A
N. you see.
Is
a
name that
a
flanie
Has never been connected with-
HANNEGAN! That's me.
i
Parody of Campaign Song
From St. Louis Star, October 24, 1908.
{Continued)
IT.
WHO
11 the man
Thai fears the sassy gadabouts
llannegan! That's me.
\\ ho is the man the town is simply mad ai)Out 1
llannesan! That's ine
*poo
The ladv spooks ami
I'm fond of ihem, to<
Who is the gent
That's deserving a monument?
Uannegan! That's mo.
j fond of me.
i return, von see.
CHORUS.
II A double N-K-G-A-N spells Uannegan.
Proud of .'ill the occult power that's in me
Divil a man can spooktfy agin'me.
H A double N-E-G A-N,"you see,
Is n name that a flame
lias never been eonnectel with
HANNEGAN! That's me.
Hyslop "The Medium."
To tho Editor of the I'ost-PtFpatrh.
Prof Hyslop. who resinned from a comfortable
position In a lending university in order to study
psychic phenomena, will no doubt tear his hair once
more when ho sees himself described in a St. T^ouis
newspaper as "Prof. James Hyslop, the medium."
Is it any wonder that students of psychic matters
prefer to remain unknown, when the isnorance of
the average reporter on this subject is so profound?
■
T|||
\V.
St. Louis Star, October 24, 1908.
St. Louis Post Dispatch.
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
thoughts
is,
in
my opinion, an invitation to such discarnate
entities as have not yet rid themselves of these feelings.
The Occultists warn us not to "open the door" carelessly,
and urge us to cleanse our minds of all that might attract
undesirable influences.
It
may be asked why, with these opinions,
I
ventured to
ask questions about such matters as the emerald ring. —
Mr. Hannegan's "guide," Joe Wentworth, from the first
evening, manifested not only
a
knowledge, but
a
keen
interest concerning our daily affairs. The ring was men
tioned first by him, and he invited questions about it.
But in all of these matters he tried to handle the subject
in such
a
way as to bring out some point which would
be evidential of supernormal knowledge. Great effort
seemed to be made to convince us of the reality of the
phenomena, and
it
is
possible that the manifestation
of
a
power to help in material matters may have been
thought by our communicators to be more impressive and
convincing than anything else. However this may be,
we had many evidences that our lives were closely watched
and that an effort was made to protect us.
It has never, for
a
moment, occurred to me that any
thing which we received in the way of demonstration was
for our individual enlightenment or benefit. It has always
seemed more like
a
responsibility laid upon us; an oppor
tunity to share, however humbly, in the work of develop
ment which
is
going on. It
is
entirely in that spirit that
I
have ventured to offer the result of our experiments and
some of the conclusions to which they have led me.
I
have no desire to impose my own views, but employ
(79)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
spiritistic terms because the stories may be more clearly
and simply told if that hypothesis be assumed, and the
usual reservations such as "supposedly, so-called, pur
ported," etc., be eliminated.
INCIDENT OF WHITE ROSES
Unless a change of automatists is indicated, it will be
understood that the messages in these incidents came
through Mr. Hannegan, by automatic writing. As ques
tions usually were put by me, initials of the questioner
will only be given in case of questions asked by someone
else. Answers purporting to come from Joe Wentworth
are designated by J. The following incident illustrates the
rapidity with which Mr. Hannegan's mediumship mani
fested itself. It is an abstract from the third sitting,
April 26, 1908.
Q.
—Before the writing begins I want to say that we
wish to be guided by you; if anything unwise or unreason
able is asked it is through ignorance; not idle curiosity.
Please understand that we only make suggestions.
J.—I will take good care of you all.
Q.
—While we are all friends here who have confidence
in each other, others might not accept our testimony
about the whistle which was lifted from the table around
which we were sitting in the dark, and blown. It is on
the piano (about fifteen feet away) will you pick it up and
blow it?
The room was brightly lighted. We immediately
heard the whistle blown loudly and it fell to the floor.
{80J
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
Q.
—Thank you. A friend in the West has been trying
to communicate with his wife. I have a letter asking me
to try to get a message for him. The wife's picture is on
the mantel. Can you get a message for him?
J.—Make it very dark.
We turned out the light and in a few seconds the table
moved. I asked if we should turn on the light. The table
tilted "yes." On turning up the light we found on the
table two beautiful white roses. Not a petal was rumpled
or crushed. They were moist with dew. No flower was in
the apartment when we put out the light.
Q.
—Shall we send one, or both, to Mr. Dreyer?
J.—Send the bud.
The date of this sitting was Sunday, April 26. On
that evening Mr. Dreyer, in California, received a message
in automatic writing through a friend who had never
heard of me, saying that he would "hear something
surprising from Nellie Lambert." This lady was not a
professional psychic who gave the message. I have Mr.
Dreyer's letter written the next day telling me of it; also
one written after receiving the bud, which was still fresh.
He wrote again to say that the bud did not open nor did
the petals drop off. It closed tightly and remained fresh
for several days. The half-open rose which I kept, closed
into a bud after about a week. The petals are still firm
after all these years.
New York, Nov. 11, 1908.
My dear Mr. Lambert:
I have just received the clipping from the Sunday Post
Dispatch magazine in which someone has aired the possibility
{81}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
of Will Hannegan's playing the usual tricks. Of course both
you and I are well aware of what possibilities could be sus
pected there by people who had not taken the trouble to know
the facts, but, of course the men who write about this have not
seen the real record and my introduction to
it,
nor did they
catch the point that the primary interest in the incident was
its connection with what occurred in California.
It
is
like the editors of newspapers to leave out of account
the fundamental thing which gives the case its interest, and
then go on like wiseacres to make notes on it. An illustration
of the same thing
is
this: In
a
recent number of the Journal,
a
communicator had said "Hell, hell; hell
is
full. Hell
is
in
ourselves." In quoting
it
the newspapers simply said, "Hell,
hell
is
full." And left the rest out. The sentence that gave
it
its entire meaning was omitted. So
it
is
in this case.
I
am very glad to have the clipping because,
if
I
come out
there to lecture
I
am going to make use of the two incidents as
an illustration of newspaper ignorance and lying.
Very sincerely,
J.
H. Hyslop.
THE LOST COINS
In May, 1908, Mr. Lambert returned to St. Louis after
a
visit to New York. He mentioned that while in New
York he had missed two beautiful gold Austrian coins
which he always carried in his pocket. He said there was
no chance of their being found for he had searched his
clothing before packing his trunk. Everyone but myself
supposed that the trunk had arrived with him and had
been unpacked. As
a
matter of fact
it
had gone astray,
and was, as we learned later, at the Twenty-Third Street
Ferry Station in Jersey City. At
a
sitting on the evening
{82}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
of his return Mr. Lambert mentioned having lost these
coins and the pencil wrote:—
J.—I cannot see if they are in the trunk or just out
side
Mr. L.—Please write that again.
J.—(Same reply as before.)
When the trunk arrived a few days later, the coins were
found in the pocket of a vest which was at the very
bottom of the trunk. Here again we have an indication
that the communicator saw the etheric counterpart, or
aura, instead of the physical object. The coins were next
to the bottom of the trunk and Joe Wentworth could not
tell whether they were inside, or just outside.
m • • • • •
DESK INCIDENT
When we left for Narragansett in June, 1908, the
trained nurse who had charge of Junior, our five-year-old
son, was in bad health. Mr. Lambert persuaded me to
take Mr. Hannegan with us, with the idea of having
him assist, and eventually replace her as the boy's com
panion. We continued our automatic writing at Narra
gansett, and at a sitting on August 14, this message was
written:
J.—Jordan, in the desk by the door—do not say any
thing until you look—I must not tell you too much but
you bet I can.
Mr. L.—Do you mean the desk in this room ?
J.—No, at 100 W Street. (I omit name which was
given in full. It was a New York office of Mr. L's.)
183}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Mr. L.—Which desk and which door? There are five
desks and two doors.
J.—That is what I mean —in the larger room by the
door as you go in at the door.
Mr. L.—There is no desk near that door.
When Mr. Lambert went to New York a week later
he found that a desk had been moved to the place indi
cated and evidently was the one referred to. Mr. Hanne-
gan had never been to the office.
J.—I said in the larger room by the door as you go in
the door.
Mr. L.—(Still confident there was no desk in that
position).
In what part of the desk is the thing for which I must
look?
J.—You know it is like the trunk (in Coin Incident)
I can see it but cannot tell just where it is—IT IS NEAR
THE BOTTOM (In very large writing).
On August 17, after other writing, the sentence came:
J.—This day of our Lord—that is on the paper you
will find. (Automatic drawing which looked like a seal
with two ribbon-ends).
Mr. L.—What is the drawing?
J.—The top is a seal.
Mr. L.—Is there such a seal on the paper?
J.—Yes. It is red and two little blue pieces out of
the top.
Q.
—Does the paper concern Jordan personally?
J.—I cannot tell just what it is but it is something
Jordan ought to know.
184}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
Q.
—Has it been opened, or is the seal intact?
J.—It looks open —(Verified.)
On August 21, Mr. Lambert left for New York by the
late train. The next afternoon I received the following
wire:
"Mrs. Jordan W. Lambert, Narragansett Pier, R. I.
"Someone else seems anxious to investigate the desk.
It was broken open last night. Consult Joe. Will phone
at seven o'clock."
At a quarter to six I asked Mr. Hannegan to write:
Q.
—I have received a wire from Jordan saying that the
desk was broken open before he arrived; he asks your
advice.
J.—Let me get things a little straight first—(Wait of
five minutes). Nellie it would be awful if I would tell
you and Jordan all —but he will know himself very soon —
and if he does not find out as soon as I think I will tell
him things that will help him to know all—I will say that
HE did not have his key and he broke it open when he
thought Jordan was coming.
Q.
—Could Will help him if he went to New York?
J.—But you cannot be left without one of them
Q.
—Yes, I can. If Jordan needs him I will send him.
J.—You know Nellie I can get much nearer to them
all with Will if you think you can spare him.
I sent Mr. Hannegan to New York. The incident was
carried to a successful conclusion and all of Joe Went-
worth's statements were verified. The details were given
to Dr. Hyslop but were too personal to be entered in the
record. The importance of the incident lies in the super
185)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
normal knowledge shown, and in Mr. Lambert's en
lightenment as to the character of a man whom he had
trusted implicitly —a more serious matter than the theft
of the paper, of which he had a copy.
A DIAGNOSIS
This incident of a diagnosis, given to Dr. John B.
Rule consists of fragmentary messages received at dif
ferent times, which I have abstracted from various sittings.
On December 28, 1908, I received a note from Dr. Rule
saying that he would call that evening and begging me
to try to get some information about his friend Billy C.
who was paralysed in both legs. Dr. Rule said he had
called to see him and found that he had been taken to a
hospital. I told no one of having received the note.
That evening when the doctor called, he, Mr. Lambert,
Mr. Hannegan and I, sat for automatic writing.
Q.
—Dr. Rule would like some information. Do you
know what it is?
J.—Elsie—Will—Billy C. (Name given in full). Trust
—situation —is hid but nothing wrong
Q.
—We do not understand.
J.—Nellie (H. C. L.) may write a little while I get
things settled. (I took the pencil).
N.—Nellie —Joe is having so much trouble with a
woman who is here that he wants to get out before he
can write
NORMAN (Wings). 1
1 1 once showed Mr. Hannegan some colored plates in Leadbeater's Thought
Forms and told him I thought the large wings which he and others frequently
(86)
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
Q—Who is Elsie?
N.—I do not know—she is not a very good woman and
she wants to tell Lillie (Miss Hannegan) something —it is
unpleasant and something she need not know
(Mr. Hannegan took pencil).
J.—Nellie in so—no—this June
—Elsie —Jordan be pa
tient—I am trying to explain—I said "hid but nothing
wrong"—Elsie is very bad but she has much to do with
what news would do any good —(Several names given not
known to us but recognised by doctor). (A personal
message to him omitted.)
You need not worry about Elsie—she was very bad
when she was on earth but she is working hard and still
does some of the bad things when she cannot help it and
she has much to do—and knows so much—about Billy—
and it will mean so much to the whole world to know
just what is the matter with him (He was supposed to
have contracted some unknown tropical disease). She
knows and can tell and show what it is—Nellie she is his
guide —that is why she would not go away and wants so
badly to tell and would write her name so much—I
want her to tell it in a different way than she wanted to— 1
saw over me were of that nature; a symbolic picture of my thoughts about
Invisible Helpers. "Norman" usually drew a pair of wings after his signature.
Mr. H. then pointed to a picture of a cone with stars rising from
it,
saying that
was what he had tried to describe during
a
dark sitting on May
1
1
. On looking
for the description
I
found that such
a
form was supposed to symbolise cheer
ful thoughts about death. It
is
interesting to note that my aunt had died on
May ii, and that my thoughts were full of her lovely and peaceful death.
1
In connection with the communication about "guides" in Mr. De Brath's
foreword, this message, and another which
I
shall cite, are in curious contrast
I
once spoke of
a
disagreeable person whose "guide" seemed also to be bad.
tempered, remarking that such persons ought to be guided by gentle person-
{87J
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Here the message digressed, and nothing more on this
subject was received until Jan. 9, 1908:
J. — May J. Cytron — left side — is its line on
Gubers —May J. Cytron—it is small but oh hell —
May J. Cytron
Another break in subject matter. Dr. Rule seemed
much impressed but the message meant nothing to the
rest. The case of Billy C. was referred to again on
January 1
5. An automatic drawing was made and then :—
J.—Elsie brought the first man that ever had what
Billy has and this is his way of writing
Six pages of writing followed, of which only Dr. Rule
understood anything. It evidently was intended for him.
Portions of it looked like Arabic. Here and there were
signs of weights and measures used by druggists. The
doctor said that all of the script which he was able to
decipher referred to Billy C. and was an attempt at a
diagnosis. We were speaking of the strange hand-writing
and characters being unlike the writing of Joe Went-
worth when the message was written:
J.—But you don't think I could write like that—I had
to let him do it himself—One on Each Side Press
ing on (More hieroglyphics) and that makes it seem
as if it were Gangrene —do it right and it is nothing at
alities. Joe Wentworth replied: "You know people sometimes have more
effect on their guides than the guides can have on them." From his communi
cations one gathers the impression that when he speaks of guides he refers,
usually, to groups which correspond to classes of student-teachers, each group
under the direction of a more highly developed entity who himself is guided
by a still higher authority —and so on, up the scale, indicating that our guides,
of this type are selected according to our own grade of development rather
than our special lack of it.
{88}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
all—you will find that—opening each side you will find a
very small tumor and it is against the artery and no
blood at all could go into the legs and there was nothing
at all the matter with the legs—only the two tumors on
each side
This diagnosis proved to be correct. The surgeons were
considering the amputation of both legs, fearing that
gangrene was beginning to set in, when the doctor per
suaded them to look for the tumors, which were found—
on "Guber's Line."
THREE BLOOD INCIDENTS
During the summer of 1908, at Narragansett Pier, we
entertained two guests who witnessed the first two of the
following incidents. These were Mr. Glenn Alan Sykes
and a lady whom I shall call Mrs. T. Mrs. T. saw several
crystal visions which were connected with the informa
tion received by automatic writing, and as most of the
physical phenomena manifested at our sittings had some
connection with the subjective phenomena they are more
interesting when considered in connection with the auto
matic script. A few of the facts received by writing will
serve to link these three incidents together and to show
that in the physical manifestations there was a distinct
meaning. In the course of the writing in June, a name
was given —"Ortrando." Joe Wentworth said that one
of his paintings was there. (He claimed to have been an
artist). The place again was referred to later on, and
this time it was spelled "Ortranto," and we were told
that it was near "much water of the same name." When
{89}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
I wrote to my father asking him to look for the place
in an atlas he replied that I must have reference to
Otranto, on the Gulf of Otranto. The connection will be
seen later.
FIRST INCIDENT
On the evening of July 30, Mr. Hannegan was sitting
in Junior's room waiting for him to go to sleep. He be
came drowsy, and suddenly found himself in a little drug
store, dressing the arm of a tall, slender boy clothed like
a miner or mechanic. The arm was badly crushed and
bled profusely. Another boy with bright red hair assisted
in dressing the arm. Mr. Hannegan then had a vision of
the accident in which the boy had been injured, and on
coming down-stairs later he told us of this experience.
That night about midnight I heard five loud knocks on
the head of my bed. At the same hour Mrs. T. heard
knocks on her door. As I never heard such loud knocks
unless they were intended to call me for some purpose,
I thought something might be wrong with the child, and
I opened the door of Junior's room. By the light which
shone in from my room, I saw that Mr. Hannegan, who
slept in a bed beside Junior's, was hanging half out of
it; his hands clasped and touching the floor. When I
spoke he said:—"Oh, I must have been there again!",
and held out his hands. I wish to emphasise the fact
that I took his hands, which felt strangely wet and
sticky, and held them firmly in my own while I helped
him to his feet. Mrs. T. joined us just then and we led
him into my lighted room. We saw that his hands and
{90}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
wrists were covered with blood almost to the elbows. It
was wet, and very much clotted. On examining my
hands, which had been grasping Mr. Hannegan's, we were
astonished to find that on them there was not the slightest
trace of blood. Mrs. T. filled a basin with water and Mr.
Hannegan washed his hands. The water was deeply
discolored and clots floated in it. He told us that he
suddenly had found himself with the injured boy again;
that he and the red-haired youth had dressed the arm
which was bleeding as badly as when it had been dressed
the first time. There was no scratch or injury on Mr.
Hannegan's hands. He seemed dazed and fell asleep as
soon as he was in bed again.
In the morning the bloody water and clots were just as
we had left them in the basin.
SECOND INCIDENT
Many communications in automatic writing were re
ceived concerning these two boys, who were said to be at
a slate mine in Wales. Mrs. T. saw several crystal
visions connected with them. Mr. Hannegan experienced
a number of similar "trips" which he made to dress the
arm. I pass over these incidents and communications,
as this is only an abstract.
On August 4 we were told that I was to go, instead of
Mr. Hannegan, to dress the arm. While I am sometimes
conscious of having made such journeys during sleep,
I seldom recall them, although certain persons have told
me of my having appeared, spoken to them, and even
assisted them in some crisis. I requested that a blood
{91}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
stain be put on my hand to show me, if I really went,
that I had been out of the body. I went to my room
about ten-thirty. Before getting into bed I locked the
door, and spent some time in meditation. Both Mr.
Sykes and Mrs. T., who were in their rooms across the
hall, heard me lock my door. Their account was as
follows :
Mrs. T. heard a loud whistle in her room, which she
recognised as Joe Wentworth's usual manner of calling
her. As these manifestations always frightened her, she
did not move until the whistle had been repeated and
her hair had been pulled violently a couple of times. She
then went to Mr. Sykes and suggested that they go to
my room to see if I were ill. Mr. Sykes reminded her that
they both had heard me lock my door, —yet Mrs. T.
turned the knob and entered my room. She said that I
came toward her and seemed bewildered, but declared
that I had not yet taken the journey as I was still awake.
She left me and I got into bed.
I was unable to sleep. Footsteps and voices about the
room finally made me so nervous that I slipped on my
dressing-gown, caught up a handkerchief and a small
flash-light, and ran into Junior's room. The boys' beds
were side by side. I turned on my electric torch and
saw that both were fast asleep. Mr. Hannegan's head
was over on Junior's pillow. His back was turned toward
me and his right hand was clasped in Junior's left. I was
afraid to arouse him for fear of waking the child, so, as
I could not bear to stay by myself, I sat down in a chair
beside Mr. Hannegan's bed, and with my right hand,
192}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
caught hold of his free hand, the left one. The torch,
extinguished, lay in my lap. With my left hand I held
the handkerchief to my eyes; why, I do not know, for I
never shed tears even when very nervous. I recall that
the handkerchief was perfectly dry. I heard a deep
voice just behind me say: "We are all right now," and
at the same instant my handkerchief seemed to melt from
my hand which was clutching it tightly.
After a few moments Mr. Hannegan turned over and
said: "What's the matter, Mrs. Lambert, are you ill?
Can I get you something? Are you frightened? There
is such a beautiful blue light over your head. Why, your
hand is all wet and sticky!" I turned on the torch and
we saw that the hand which was grasping his was covered
with wet blood. It had left only a faint trace on one of
his fingers; but on the coverlet where my hand had rested
was a large, wet stain.
We called Mr. Sykes who told us that he felt certain I
must have been in a trance when meditating, before Mrs.
T. entered my room, for he could think of no other
explanation of the blood, which must have been put on
my hand during my journey in trance. We all searched
for my handkerchief but could not find it. In the morning
it was found by the maid, in my own room, about twenty-
five feet from where I had been sitting when it disappeared
from my hand. It was completely saturated with fresh,
wet blood, after the several hours which had intervened.
There was no appearance of clots, nor was there an odor
such as we had noticed in the first incident, like that of
a suppurated wound. The blood on my handkerchief was
(93)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
bright and fresh, just as it appears from a new cut in
the flesh of a healthy person.
In the excitement of the moment I neglected to record
an important detail. The record shows no statement as
to whether I washed my hand, and if so, whether the
water remained colored. Memory should not be trusted
about such things, but my recollection is that I did not
wash my hands; the stain on the coverlet was visible
where my hand had lain, the next morning. I am positive-
that my hands were not stained from handling the wet
handkerchief when it was found, for both the maid who
found
it,
and
I,
were puzzled about this.
Mr. Lambert arrived at Narragansett two days later,
and as Mr. Sykes was going to New York, Mr. Lambert
asked him to take the handkerchief with him. It was
submitted to three different microscopists, two of whom
said that the stain was too old, after nearly
a
week, to
enable them positively to determine whether or not
it
was human blood, although
it
was unquestionably blood
of some kind. The third was fairly certain that the
blood was human. It has not yet disappeared from the
handkerchief —1927.
THIRD INCIDENT
Among the communications about the wounded boy
and his companion was the statement that
I
had given
them money; that they had left Wales and had gone to
No.
3
Waterloo Place, London, where they exchanged my
American money and bought passage for Italy. Joe
Wentworth said that his reason for wishing to save this
(94l
isKTiTirr mBtapsyciiiqik
lXtXW
NATIONAL
»B.
A<IM I XlKI.
fahis (snrt
s.
-/<*J Ue iS^ytr tCcr
'/-
/feci/ ^ct'/^i"'^.
focS*!*. re*-rr s//^/ rentes
, . /<v ' *yr .
Letter from Dr. Geley April
i,
1924, in Reference to the Three Blood
Incidents, Citing a Similar Experience of His Own.
7S*^ /t**r*ft <rp'*S' /</y*. /?*s /e>
'
'
6
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
boy's life was that he was an Italian whose father owned
the little shop in Otranto where his painting was;1—that
if the boy died the shop would pass into other hands
at the death of the old father. Joe was anxious that we
should have the painting and had tried to influence the
boy to go home and take charge of the shop.
When Mr. Lambert was in London a few weeks later,
he went to No. 3 Waterloo Place. He found the number
vacant, but the people next door told him that until the
previous week it had been occupied by an Italian Steam
ship Co. which also exchanged currency.
In the fall, after our return to St. Louis, we used a book,
instead of loose sheets, for automatic writing. One even
ing while Mr. Lambert, Mr. Hannegan and I, were
waiting for the writing to begin, we were discussing the
statements of microscopists about my handkerchief. The
pencil began to move and a circle was drawn on the
page, and it wrote: "Now watch this spot. I am going
to put blood on it and MY DEARS it will be human
blood just like the other."
We waited patiently for some time. Then came an
interesting and significant message. Joe Wentworth told
us to wait no longer, and explained that the operators,
when trying to produce a manifestation, were never sure
just when it would take place. At times, results were
obtained very quickly; at others, greatly delayed.4 He
said that many manifestations took place which were
1
Joe Wentworth claimed he was an English artist who died in Cuba.
■This might explain why an irrelevant sentence, or the end of a sentence,
appears sometimes in the beginning of automatic writing. If one recalls the
(951
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
unobserved, simply because the operators were unable
to tell just what they could do; and that when such a
manifestation was once under way, if successful it pro
ceeded to its culmination, whether anyone were present
to witness it or not.
One evening, several days after this message had been
received, I was in my room dressing for dinner, while
one of the maids was finishing the cleaning of my white
furniture. The last piece which she washed was a white
cabinet about sixty-three inches wide, fourteen deep, and
forty-eight inches high. It was divided into three com
partments with shelves and glass doors which were lined
with silk. The door of the right-hand compartment was
locked because the automatic-writing books were kept in
it. Just before I left the room I went to the cabinet to
get some slippers, noticing as I did so, its spotless appear
ance after the cleaning. At that moment Mr. Hannegan
and Junior came in from a walk and I joined them in the
hall on their way to the dining-room. As we sat at the
table, anyone passing through the hall to go to my room
would have been seen by us through the door.
When we left the table I had occasion to go to my
room. Immediately I noticed a stream of blood running
down the whole length of the door of the right-hand com
partment of the cabinet. A pool of blood lay on the
floor beneath it. I rang, and Julia Purtell, another maid,
answered the bell. I asked her if the maid who had cleaned
the cabinet had cut herself. She was astonished at the
writing at the end of the last sitting it sometimes will be found that it is the
continuation of a sentence begun, perhaps a day, or even several days before.
{96}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
sight of the blood and assured me that no one had been
injured. The maid who had cleaned the cabinet came
in, with the cook; they were followed by Junior and Mr.
Hannegan. Someone suggested that the incident might
have a connection with the automatic-writing books in
the compartment. I took the key from my jewel-box and
on opening the door we found a stream of blood running
down the woodwork on the inside of the door. There
were no finger-marks. The blood both on the outside and
niside of the door had the appearance of having been
splashed against it near the top, from where it had run
down.
Julia Purtell brought a towel and wiped the cabinet
and the floor. She started toward the bathroom with
the towel, but stopped just beyond my door with the
exclamation: "What kind of blood is this? It has all
gone from the towel!" She showed us the towel upon
which not a trace of blood was to be seen.
Five grown persons and a child saw the stains on the
cabinet before it was cleaned; saw blood on the floor and
on the towel; and then saw the towel perfectly clean. As
far as I could judge from their statements our impres
sions were identical and simultaneous. I could detect
no variation whatever. All agreed as to the appearance,
the quantity, and the location of the blood.
In his comments in the Proceedings of 1908, Dr. Hyslop
leaned toward the hypothesis of collective hallucination
as an explanation of these three incidents; but the letter
quoted on page 72, which was written shortly after,
says: "It is more than probable that my straining of the
{97}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
mental theory will have to be abandoned in the future."
One must indeed strain the mental theory to explain
these three connected incidents in which so many different
persons are involved. However, to Dr. Geley, who was
more familiar with physical manifestations, these were
interesting but not at all astounding since he himself had
had a blood-stain put on the photograph of a person who
had been murdered. (See letter, page 94.)
If one gives a little thought to these three incidents
one finds points of great interest:—(1) The sticky, clotted
blood, both felt and seen on Mr. Hannegan's hand, in
the first incident, left no trace on my hands, yet it dis
colored the water for several hours until it was thrown
out. (2) In the second incident, although my hand was
covered with blood it left only a faint stain on one of
Mr. Hannegan's fingers. The coverlet where my hand
had rested, was stained, and the stain remained until
it was washed out. (3) My handkerchief, at some time
saturated with blood, felt dry before it left my hand.
Several hours later, when it was found, the blood with
which it was soaked appeared fresh and wet, but did not
stain my hands when I examined it. The stain remains
on it now after all the years that have passed. (4) The
blood inside of a locked door, on the outside of the door,
and on the floor, in the third incident, stained the towel
with which it was wiped up but vanished from the towel
in a few seconds.
Is it possible that these variations were intentional in
order to make the details more unusual and impressive?
Dr. Geley's statement brings still more conviction to me
{98}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
that there must be a higher chemistry, just as there has
been found to be a higher physics, of which the laws are
as yet unknown to us, and compared with which the
laws of chemistry and physics which are known must be
very elementary. Personally, I think that the first two
incidents were materialisations of blood;—and that the
third was a delayed and abortive materialisation. The
last seems to me to have been an attempt to put a blood
stain on the page of the automatic writing book which
was in the locked compartment; an attempt which dates
back to the evening when we were told that such an
attempt would be made.
EMERALD RING
The ring of this incident is a band with two square
emeralds and a diamond between them. The stones, es
pecially the emeralds, are valuable. On the evening of
March 3, 1908, we gave a dinner at which I wore several
rings, among them the emerald. They were not removed
that night but the next morning I took them off" while
packing a trunk for Mr. Lambert, who was leaving for
New York.
To the best of my recollection I left them on the
bureau of the room in which I was packing. During the
morning, my three-year-old boy came into the room for
a few minutes, and as he was handling the articles on my
bureau I told the nurse to take him out as I was too busy
to watch him. He was fond of jewels and often begged
for my rings, but I never allowed him to play with them.
When I began to dress I went to a shelf in the cabinet
(99l
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
and on taking out my shoes I found one of the rings —
(not the emerald ring) in a slipper. I hastily gathered up
the other rings from the bureau and put them, with the
one from the slipper, in a small safe which I had in my
bedroom. I was hurried for we were going to a concert
and I was late.
Not until several days later, when I went to the safe
for my rings, did I realise that the emerald ring was
missing. In justice to our employees I should state that
the ring was not taken by one of the household. It dis
appeared from my bureau on the morning of March 4.1
Although much later we remembered that a trusted busi
ness acquaintance of Mr. Lambert's had had an oppor
tunity to enter my room when no one was present, it
was only after we learned that he had taken the ring that
we recalled his having come to the house that morning.
In the meantime it was thought that the baby, who had
been playing with the articles on my bureau, had mis
placed the ring which had been found in my slipper, and
that possibly he had put the emerald ring in the waste-
basket with which he liked to play. The search was
conducted on this theory until April 11. Rewards were
offered among the rag-pickers and detectives made the
rounds of the places where trash is sorted for paper mills
and carpet factories.
As I have mentioned before, it was not until April 11
1 By a curious coincidence, the date of the disappearance of the ring was the
same as that of Mr. Hannegan's first experience with automatic writing. .
Emphasis should be laid on the fact that neither he nor his sister ever came
to our apartment, or met me, until April, a month after the disappearance
of the ring.
{lOo}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
that Mr. Lambert first brought Mr. Hannegan to the
house. As soon as he began to write, the communicator,
Joe Wentworth, remarked that the ring was under the
bricks. When asked what bricks, he replied that he
referred to the bricks leading down to the walk in front
of the house of the man who had taken the ring. Since
it might lead to identification of the person who came to
the house on March 4, I omit the detailed description
which followed, of the house, its exact location and posi
tion as to points of the compass, which none of us had
seen, but which later we verified. We were instructed
to wait and to take no steps in the matter for the
present.
No further information was given about the ring until
April 26. Mr. Hannegan was instructed to look in my
crystal (the first one he had ever seen). When he did so
he saw an arm and hand putting a small package in a
mail-box. Later in the evening while we were sitting in
the dark, he described a large arm and hand which he
saw just beside me, pointing to a placard about fifteen
inches high, on which was printed the name
" CHICAGO,"
in large letters.
On May 15 during a dark sitting Mr. Hannegan des
cribed the whole form of what he understood to be Joe
Wentworth, standing behind me with an arm around my
shoulders. I had perceived the weight of the arm before
Mr. Hannegan spoke. On it he saw three broad bands
like bracelets with "J. W." on each. In the other hand
of this apparition he saw a ring, lying on a quantity of
new bills. We turned up the light and the explanation
I IOI}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
was written that the ring had been sold for a great deal
of money; that we must wait patiently, as Joe could
still see the ring and would be able, in time, to tell us
just where it was.
On May 19th Mr. Hannegan, his sister, Mr. Fitzgerald
and I were sitting in the dark, with joined hands. I
seemed to be drawn away from the table at which we sat,
and out of the room, dragging the others with me. As
this happened quite often I shall try to explain. There
sometimes seemed to be a force like that of a magnet
which drew me in a certain direction. On first thought
one might believe this to be a form of hysteria; but as an
intelligent purpose often was shown in connection with
the impulsion I soon learned to yield to this force although
usually it was perfectly possible to resist it.
On this occasion we were drawn out of the room, still
holding each other's hands, down a long hall and into the
dining-room. There Mr. Hannegan sat down by the
telephone and put his hand to the receiver, resting his
elbow on the directory. My hand was drawn toward the
instrument and the directory slid from under Mr. Hanne-
gan's elbow. I asked if the others should leave the room
(which was dark). The answer "yes" was given in raps,
according to code. I was holding down the hook so that
Central would not be signalled, but my hand was drawn
away from
it,
and Mr. Hannegan put the receiver to his
ear. He seemed to be in
a
very light trance. He asked for
Long Distance, gave
a
number, received
a
connection,
and conversed.
I
heard the voice conversing with him
although
I
could not distinguish the words. This long
{102
J
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
distance call was never charged on our bill. Mr. Hannegan
caught what was said to him over the phone but the
meaning was not clear to him. When we returned to the
others he looked in the crystal and saw the explanation.
He told me that he had at first heard the voice of the
Long Distance Operator, and then Joe's voice giving an
address. He thought it was 045 or 047 (the o is substi
tuted for the number given) Washington Street. When
he looked in the crystal he saw the sign of three gold
balls.
On May 20 during a dark sitting, Mr. Hannegan and
I were drawn away from the others. As usual I pulled
him from his seat. I was sitting on his left, holding his
left hand. The sitter on his other side continued to
cling to his right hand. A very loud noise on the table as
though it were struck by the palm of a great, heavy,
hand, startled her so that she dropped Mr. Hannegan's
hand and I drew him after me to the dining-room and
toward the telephone. I held down the hook and im
mediately the phone became brightly illuminated. My
hand was not drawn away from the hook as it had been
on the first occasion and I continued to prevent its
signalling. Mr. Hannegan put the receiver to his ear
and again I heard a deep voice, without catching the
words. He repeated the message to me as it came. The
voice then instructed him to write. We returned to the
room where the others had turned on the light while
awaiting us, and he took the pencil.
We were informed that Joe Wentworth thought the
ring had been sold, not pawned, as so much money had
{103 J
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
been paid for it and he could see no number attached to
it. When we asked if it were in plain view where we could
see it if we went to the shop, his reply was interesting.
He answered that as he himself saw through solids he
could not aways tell whether an object was inside, or
just outside of a receptacle.
During a sitting on May 29th, Mr. Hannegan and I
again were drawn to the telephone in the dining-room.
I held down the hook. He put the receiver to his ear and
heard Joe Wentworth's voice say: "I cannot watch the
ring any longer if it changes hands." As we had failed to
get any writing through Mr. Hannegan for several even
ings, and were told, whenever I took the pencil, that Joe
was obliged to stay where he could watch the ring, I
told Mr. Hannegan to speak into the phone and ask if I
should go to Chicago, but to say that I would prefer to
await Mr. Lambert who was expected home from New
York next day. The voice replied: "I can take care of
it until Jordan comes." On this occasion I was able to
distinguish the words. Mr. Hannegan asked how we
could be sure of the place and was told that we would
know it. This was quite a long conversation and al
though I distinguished the words, the voice sounded very
far away. Mr. Lambert arrived the next day, May 30,
and left for Chicago the next night taking Mr. Hannegan
with him. His own report of the trip follows: —
mr. Lambert's report
"I left New York on May 29, reaching St. Louis the
next day. Mrs. Lambert told me all that had happened
{104 J
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
during my absence and showed me the messages received
by automatic writing. I decided to go to Chicago with
Will. We left on Sunday night, May 31, and arrived
in Chicago on June 1. Before arriving in Chicago I
questioned Will as to his knowledge of the city;—what
people he knew there, etc. He told me that he had been
in Chicago but once; this was when he passed through
the city on the way to a summer resort with an invalid who
was in his care. As for me, I had been in Chicago several
times on business but had seldom remained over night.
I had very few acquaintances in the city and had never
heard of Washington Street.1 I wish to state that from
the moment we reached Chicago, until after four in the
afternoon, Will was constantly by my side. At no time
did he have an opportunity to telephone or to converse
with anyone else. We breakfasted, and then went to
my room in the hotel where I asked Will to take the
pencil. We were told that Joe was with us and would
help us.
"We then went into the street and inquired the way to
Washington Street. We were directed to take an avenue
and walk six blocks. When we came to Washington
Street we followed it until I saw on the opposite side the
number 047. I asked Will if he saw the number.
'
Yes
sir' he replied. 'Anything else?' I asked. 'What do
you mean?' said Will. I pointed to the corner. 'Don't
you see that pawn shop?' After searching carefully I
found that there was no other pawn shop or jeweller in
1 Mr. L. of course realised that he might have seen or heard the name and
have retained a subconscious memory of it.
{I05)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
the building, which contained more than two-hundred
offices, chiefly real estate. We went just outside of the
shop and I spoke aloud and asked if we had come to the
right place. I requested Joe Wentworth to return with
us to the hotel and tell me, if it were the right place,
whether the ring was still there. We went to my room
and I asked Will to write.
Q.
—Joe, are you here? Did you go with us to the
place where we have just been?
J.—Yes.
Q.
—Is the ring still there?
J.—Yes.
Q.
—Can you assist me in any way; suggest what I
should do?
J.—(A slight pause: then the pencil started to write
much more rapidly than one could write consciously, in
large, clear letters)
—You might call up Central (I omit
number. H. C. L.) ask them if they have any fine rings
they could show you.
"We walked from my room to a telephone booth
where I looked up the number in the directory in this
way: I had remembered the name of the pawn-broker
at 047, and when I looked for the name in the directory
I saw that the phone number was the one which Joe had
just given us. I have the original manuscript in my
possession. We decided that it would be a mistake to
telephone and planned another course. We started for
the pawnshop and on the way we passed another. I went
in and asked the proprietor about the law regarding
pawned articles. He advised me to go to Police Head
(106}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
quarters and ask to see the list of pawned jewelry. He
said that a broker was obliged to give the police a record
of all the articles pledged, with their descriptions.
"From this shop we went on to 047 and went into the
shop where I asked for Mr. D. whom the man we
had just left had told us was in charge of the shop at 047.
The clerk said that Mr. D. was out but would return in
half an hour. I asked him if they had any rings for sale.
'What kind of a ring?' He asked. I replied: 'An
emerald and diamond ring.' He said that they did not
sell things; that this was strictly a pawn shop where all
they did was to loan money on articles of value.
"I then asked if Mr. D. might not have any rings which
were his personal property and which he might sell. The
clerk replied, 'Yes, he has; You'd better see him.' We
returned to the shop in twenty minutes and very soon
after, Mr. D. came in. I did not try to deceive him,
but told him plainly that my wife had lost a very fine
diamond and emerald ring—that I had reason to believe
it was in his possession; that I wanted to buy the ring from
him because my wife cared so much for
it,
and that as
it
had been taken by someone quite close to me
I
had no
idea of prosecuting either the thief or the one who had
received
it
from him.
I
gave him
a
description of the
article and told him
I
would give such
a
good price that
he would make
a
nice profit.
"Mr. D. looked at me searchingly and said
'I
have
a
large amount of stock on hand and
it
would take me some
time to look through it.'
I
asked him to begin the search
and to communicate with me
if
he should find the ring.
{107}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
"After returning to my room I began to reflect upon the
matter and especially upon the laws concerning stolen
property. I had gone to Mr. D. without an introduction.
He did not know me and might think me a detective.
Naturally he would not show me the ring, if he had
it,
nor could he afford to do anything but deny possession
of the ring because
I
would have legal right to seize my
own property. This occurred to me
in
the late afternoon
so
I
wrote him a note in which
I
told him that
if
he found
the ring
I
would pass him the amount to be agreed upon,
in currency, before
I received the ring.
I
sent this note
by Will but received no reply. When Will returned to
me he took the pencil and
I
asked
if
the man we had
talked to was the one who had the ring. Joe wrote:—
'
Yes —the man
I
saw you talking to last has
it
—he took
it
from the safe and looked at
it
and put
it
back
'
"I waited
in
my room until six o'clock but heard
nothing from Mr. D. Late
in
the eveningI called upon
an acquaintance named Jones, and asked him
if
any of
his friends were acquainted with Mr. D. Jones called up
a
Mr. B.—who said he knew D.
I
saw Mr. B.—and asked
him to see Mr. D.—the pawn-broker, and inform him
that
I
could be trusted to keep any promise
I
made. —
That same evening Will and
I
took the 11.30 train to St.
Louis. The following day Mr. Jones called me in St.
Louis by long distance phone and asked for an accurate
description of the ring."
On June
4
we left for the East. When
I
travelled
I
was
in the habit of carrying my jewels in
a
small chamois bag
{
108}
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
hung from a belt under my clothing. Upon my return
from a trip of the previous summer I found this bag was
soiled and sent it to the cleaner. When it was returned I
had it packed away until it should be needed. On
taking it out before leaving for the East on June 4 of this
year, I found upon it a deposit of powder remaining from
the cleaning. I brushed it thoroughly, even turning it
wrong-side-out and brushing the inside of the small
pockets in which my rings always were packed. Mr.
Lambert helped me to pack my jewels, wrapping each
piece in tissue paper before putting it into the bag. From
this it will be seen how impossible it would have been for
anything to have been put into the bag,—or to have been
left in it the season before —without the knowledge of
both Mr. Lambert and myself.
Mr. Hannegan who was then assuming part of the care
ofour son whose nurse was in bad health, went with us to
New York. From there, with the two other nurses, the
maids and the children, he went on to Narragansett Pier,
while Mr. Lambert and I went to Princeton for com
mencement week. While in Princeton I had occasion to
wear jewels a number of times, and had everything out of
the pockets of the chamois bag. On our return to New
York Mr. Lambert found a letter dated June 8, which
had been forwarded from St. Louis. It read: —
"Mr. Lambert, Dear Friend:—Mr. D. states he can
do nothing without your presence, so if you will come on
here (Chicago) again he will be glad to take the matter
up. Everybody is well and joins me in best wishes.
Sincerely, J. B. 5, H—Court. —"
{109 J
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Mr. Lambert left for Chicago on the 17th and I went
on to Narragansett Pier. When I arrived, Mr. Hannegan
and Miss Howard, the other trained nurse, told me that
they repeatedly had tried to get automatic writing but
were always told to wait for me, when they would "see
wonders." They said that the night before I came a
window on the second floor was thrown open violently.
When they asked for an explanation the reply was,
"I am working up to what I will do when Nellie
comes."1
On June 18 th when Mr. Lambert was in Chicago Mr.
Hannegan looked in the crystal, late in the afternoon,—
about half-past-six. (Note difference of time in Chicago
and Mr. L.'s second report). Mr. Hannegan said he saw
a man standing before the open doors of a vault. A ring
was in his hand and Joe Wentworth stood beside him
with one hand outstretched. In the evening we asked
Joe to tell us what success Mr. Lambert was having.
J.—I saw so much and so many and they told so
many lies
Q.
—Did Mr. Lambert see the ring?
J.—Not while I was there but he will see it sometime
if I have to show myself to the man.
Joe then assured us that we would recover the ring.
He said he would come to my room that night but I
fell sound asleep as soon as I went to bed. It was late
1 All sorts of telekinetic phenomena in our cottage at the Pier were a common
occurrence. Sometimes while we were busy with daily affairs, strips of molding
around the windows would be stripped off, or pieces of paper torn from the
walls. Objects disappeared, to be found later in locked trunks and the most
impossible places.
("o)
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
and I was tired but I remembered to put my chamois
jewel bag under my pillow as usual, when I retired.
When I woke in the morning something impelled me to
open the jewel-bag,—a most unusual thing, as I never
wore jewels in the morning, and often went for months
without wearing them at all. The first thing that my
hand encountered when I thrust it into the bag, was
the emerald ring. It was in one of the small pockets
which I have described, and was not wrapped in tissue
paper like the others. The marking inside of the ring
had been obliterated.
mr. Lambert's second report
"I left New York for Chicago on June 17. Before
coming East on June 4, I had talked the whole matter
over with Will's brother, John Hannegan, who has been
a detective on the St. Louis force for a number of years.1
The National Convention was being held in Chicago at
the time I left New York and it is customary for all
large cities to send one of their detectives to the con
vention to aid in the protection of the crowd of visitors.
The representative from St. Louis had been selected; but
at the last minute the plans were changed and Will's
brother was surprised to find himself ordered to Chi
cago.
"Just before leaving New York on the 17th I received a
letter from John Hannegan telling me that he would be
in Chicago on the morning of June 1 8, and suggesting that
we meet there. (I omit details about various persons on
1 Was later made Chief.
{Ill)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
whom Mr. Lambert and John Hannegan called, and who
tried to influence Mr. D. to give up the ring. H. C. L.)
Later in the day I came to the conclusion that D. would
do nothing. After consulting with John Hannegan we
went together to Police Headquarters and informed two
Chicago detectives that we believed Mr. D. had a ring
of mine and that we wanted assistance in persuading
him to give it up. These two men were regularly em
ployed to watch pawn shops and to look for stolen prop
erty. The four of us went to the Washington Street
shop and were met by Mr. D's clerk, who said sarcas
tically, 'Well, have you gotten your ring yet?'
"The detectives began to question him, whereupon he
seemed to lose his temper and said: 'You are wasting
your time and mine; get the man who took the ring;
bring him here and make him say we have it.' I replied
that it was exactly what I should do. Mr. D. himself
was seated behind the railing and could hear the conver
sation. The time was between five and six on the after
noon of June 1 8. Note what Will saw in the crystal
at about this hour, in Narragansett.
"That evening Mrs. Lambert wired me what Will had
seen in the crystal, and the next morning she wired that
the ring was mysteriously restored." 1
ABSTRACT FROM RECORD, JUNE 1 9, I908
IO A.M.
Q.
—Joe, tell us how you brought the ring.
J.—Now you can see why I did everything that I
1 Mr. Lambert neglected to say that it took four telegrams from me to
convince him that I had the ring.
{112)
PERSONAL INCIDENTS
have done—I brought the roses and let them stay and not
leave you so that you could see that I could bring anything
and let it stay with you—When you saw the man
put the ring in his hat I took it out and brought it to you
and you will keep it and let people say what they like
just as long as you have it and all believe —I will never
again be able to do very much—only write to you and
do things in the dark—but never another great thing—
The ring got to the man as you think —he will never let
on that it is gone as he gets so much money that way
that he cannot say a word.
Mr. Lambert kept begging me to send the ring to
him in St. Louis as he said he was anxious to confront
the thief with it and get a signed statement for Dr.
Hyslop only. When I spoke of this Joe Wentworth
wrote that Mr. Lambert must take no steps at all as he
was afraid the man might kill himself. He added that
if Mr. Lambert insisted on trying to get a confession,
even for the private use of Dr. Hyslop, the ring would
have disappeared by the time he came east, and that
it could disappear as easily as it had come. I replied
that I had no wish to keep the ring if he wanted to take
it again, and removing
it,
I
laid
it
on the table at which
we were sitting. It immediately moved toward me,
without contact, under
a
bright light, for about five
inches.
I
asked Joe Wentworth
if,
since he had said he would
never be able to do another "great thing," he would
be unable to help us in time of danger as he had done in
several instances. He answered that he did not call
it
(113)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
"great" to protect us in time of need; that it was "only
what any good person would do."
There was a long period after this during which Joe
Wentworth did not write for us and we only heard from
him through my brother and "Norman." When he again
communicated with us directly the writing came with
such force, and so large, that we were obliged to
use sheets of wrapping paper. This enthusiasm soon
quieted down and the writing became the same as
before.
Before deciding to include the foregoing incident in
my book I wrote to Mr. Hannegan asking him whether
he was in communication with Joe Wentworth and if so,
whether he, Joe, objected to my using this material
which so long has been withheld. Mr. Hannegan replied
that Joe Wentworth often appeared and spoke with him;
that he expressed himself as willing that the incident
should be used, but only on condition that I make a
statement from him. It is to the effect that the incident
of the Emerald Ring is not yet concluded, as we had
supposed; but that he cannot carry it to completion
through Mr. Hannegan alone, without my assistance.
("4)
Chapter Two
EXPERIMENTS IN PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY
"Du reste, en principe, un document photographique ne
saurait jamais, en lui meme,prouver la rSalitS ou la fausseti
d'un phSnomine. Le document photographique n'a de
poids que par les temoignages qui l'accompagne."
Geley.
TN December 1924 Sir William Barrett stated that
until lately he had remained sceptical about psychic
photography, but that recent experimentation had yielded
"indubitable evidence" of its reality.1 The Frontis
piece which the kindness of Mr. De Brath enables
me to present, is a reproduction of the photograph to
which Sir William refers. The following description
is from a letter to me written on July 26, 1925, by Mr. De
Brath:
"I am having made for you an enlargement of the
photograph certified by Sir William Barrett as 'indu
bitable.' The sitters are Sir William, Miss Scatcherd,
and myself. The plates were from a packet marked and
sealed by the Imperial Dry Plate Co., Cricklewood, es
pecially for such experiments at the College.2 The
1
Some Reminiscences of Fifty Years of Psychical Research, Barrett, Pro
ceedings of the S. P. R. 1914, page 27J.
• The College of Psychic Science, London. (Publishers of Psychic Science
Sjiarterly).
{us)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
packet was opened by me and the plates were initialled
immediately. The medium (Hope) did not touch the
plates at all. I did all the development. There are two
faces, or the same face superimposed in two positions.
The upper face is a portrait of Letty Hyde, for some
years a parlormaid in our employ, who died about three
years ago; recognized by her father, mother, three brothers
and a sister, all non-spiritualists who were shown the cut
out face in a locket and not told that it was supernormal.
My wife and I also recognize the likeness."
That psychic photography should be regarded with
suspicion is not surprising, since, as experimenters well
know, it is not difficult to produce many of the same
effects by fraudulent means. But it is an easy matter to
experiment personally, and even if no psychic effect be
obtained one may be fairly certain of an occasional
interesting picture of the human radiation. My first
experiment resulted in a photograph of this nature. It
shows what several physicians have assured me is a
picture of the inner aura, which is said to manifest
intermittent flashes of light. (Blondlot's N Rays.)
This photograph is reproduced in Plate II, with descrip
tion of method. A very interesting little book, Pour
Photographier les Rayons Humains, by Fernand Girod,
was published in 1912.1 It has not been translated into
English but the illustrations explain themselves. No
spiritistic agency is claimed for the photographs repro
duced in M. Girod's book; nevertheless it has a bearing
1 Pour Photographier Us Rayons Humains, Fernand Girod. BibliothJque
Generate d'Editions. 174 Rue Saint Jaques, Paris, 1912.
{116}
PLATE II
Photograph of Human Radiation. Hammer Dry Plate Held Against
Solar Plexus in Total Darkness, May 15, 1924.
EXPERIMENTS IN PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY
upon psychic photography because one of the methods
used in obtaining psychic photographs is based upon
human radiation.1
Few persons who have not experimented personally
believe in the reality of psychic photography. Even
photographs of the human radiation often are questioned.
But both types of phenomena may be investigated with
out the aid of a professional medium, and to many
people this would make the results more convincing.
When such experiments are made by two or three friends
or members of a family who have no object in deceiving
each other, whose only interest is in seeking personal
conviction, it is possible to dispense with many formalities.
They need only concern themselves with care in develop
ing, printing, and avoiding accidental abrasions. Other
amateur experimenters may be interested in some of the
methods which I have found to be successful. I repro
duce a few photographs made by these methods in my
own home and in that of a friend, without the presence
of a medium, showing how easy it is to make one's own
experiments.
The photograph shown in Plate II was made with a
Hammer Dry Plate (glass) held for one hour, in total
darkness, against the solar plexus. There was only a thin
garment between my body and the plate. As I was alone
in the apartment I set an alarm clock so that it would be
unnecessary to turn on the light in order to see the time.
1 1 have found physicians much interested in photographs of Human Radia
tion as an indication of physical conditions. Chinese doctors for many years
have studied it as a means of diagnosis.
[117)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
I held the plate with my finger-tips against the edges,
uncovered, gelatine side up. Note the effect of depth
between what appear to be folds of filmy substance; also
the circular path followed by the little points of light
which appear to move rapidly in the same direction.
Some of these lights seem to be exploding; others are
nebulous; some leave a trail of light and resemble minia
ture comets. The photographer who developed this plate
was very curious about it. He said that he had tried to
imitate
it,
and while he was not successful he had ob
tained
a
few of the "comets" by immersing
a
plate
in
developing solution, throwing
a
handful of
a
certain
crystal salts on
it
and tilting the pan so as to keep the
solution in motion.
A
second experiment with
a
Hammer Dry Plate was
made by wrapping
it
in black paper and enclosing the
package in
a
heavy Manilla envelope. This was held,
alternately, between the hands of
a
friend and myself, for
the space of an hour. The result was another picture of
the little flashes of light all of which had the effect of
comets with tails moving in the same direction. None
appeared nebulous or to be exploding.
On May 29, 1925,
I
began to use X Ray films treated
with Dicyanine, enclosed in X Ray light-proof envelopes.
These envelopes consist of
a
black envelope enclosed in
one of heavy, reddish-yellow paper. As the weather was
very warm at the time, this was placed between paste
boards and wrapped in heavy paper. Two persons,
J.
L.
and myself, held the package level between our hands for
an hour in the following manner:—
J.
L. held
it
for twenty
{118}
EXPERIMENTS IN PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY
minutes after which I held it for the same length of time.
J. L. then placed his left hand under, and the right one
over my hands as they held the package in the same order;
and we held it together thus for another twenty minutes.
Although this resulted in one of our most interesting pho
tographs the picture does not lend itself to reproduction,
because of super-impositions. The film appears to have
been exposed, as in a camera, three times, focussed each
time upon a different group of objects. A number of
prints have been made from this negative but no two are
exactly alike. In some the exposure which seems to have
been superimposed, is prominent, while in others that
underneath, corresponding to a first or second exposure, is
predominant. It is necessary therefore to study a print
of this negative in various lights and positions, and also
through a magnifying glass, in order to detect the dif
ferent effects. This appearance of double or triple ex
posure is not unusual in psychic photographs.
Since I give no reproduction of this photograph on
account of the difficulty in reproducing its most inter
esting features, I mention it only because of the change in
method, and especially, because of a large X in the center
to which, at the time, we attached no significance. But
that the X is of interest will be seen when Plate IV is
described.
As there has been much discussion about the use of
Dicyanine for increasing the sensitiveness of films, my
experience with it may be of interest. Dicyanine is diffi
cult to obtain, deteriorates rapidly, is troublesome to
handle, and it is also very expensive. It cannot be ex
{"9}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
posed to the usual red light of the dark-room, a green
lantern being necessary in mixing the solution, in treating
the film, and in developing a film that has been so treated.
Films which have been treated with Dicyanine solution
must be used within a few days or they will have deteri
orated too much to be relied upon. I have obtained
equally good results with films on which the Dicyanine
had not been used, and have abandoned the treatment
altogether. I also have discarded the paste-boards and
heavy wrappings which have been found unnecessary,
even in warm weather.
In following the method of holding the film between
the hands it is a mistake to have too many sitters. Even
four or five persons make the last part of the experiment
difficult and fatiguing when so many pairs of hands under
and over one another involve strained positions and a
heavy weight upon the hands at the bottom of the pile.
I have had quite as good results with only two sitters.
Plate III reproduces a print from a Panchromatic
Plate which was exposed in total darkness for ten minutes
in a camera with a green filter. The camera was focussed
on a wall at a point about two feet above the heads of a
group of five persons sitting close to each other. Some of
them perceived luminous clouds over the group, but no
one distinguished a face. The face in the photograph
has not been recognised.
Plate IV shows the photograph referred to on page
xviii, Part I, of which it is a reduction. The method fol
lowed was the same as that described on pages 118-119,
except that the film was not treated with Dicyanine solu
{120}
PLATE III
Panchromatic Plate Exposed for Ten Minutes in Total Darkness,
in Camera with Green Filter. Camera Focussed on Bare Wall, June 4,
1924.
EXPERIMENTS IN PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY
tion. An X Ray film was enclosed in a light proof en
velope but without paste-boards and paper wrappings.
It was held by a member of the family, B. P., and myself,
for an hour and a quarter. There was a faint light from
the adjoining room, but when using the Light Proof en
velopes even daylight should not hinder the phenomenon.
Our reasons for sitting in half-light were because it was less
fatiguing, and because we sometimes saw interesting lights.
Neither B. P. nor I had seen any of the symbols used
in the famous Stainton Moses Script. If I had heard
them mentioned I retained no conscious recollection of
such an allusion. B. P. knew nothing about Stainton
Moses nor had he read anything on psychical research
except my pamphlet and one of Prof. Crawford's books.
He did not know that Dr. Hyslop had purported to mani
fest his presence by a certain symbol—the letter X. I
knew only that he was supposed to have identified him
self by a symbol; that it had been received in different
ways through seventeen psychics in various places, who
did not know its significance. But I had no idea what the
symbol was. Up to that time the secret had been kept
carefully. I had some reason, when our film was de
veloped, to wonder whether the X shown on it had some
meaning, because of an incident which had occurred a
few days before: —A physician who, when requested, uses
his gift of psychic healing in connection with medica'
treatment, had consented to try this for a trouble in one
of my ears which had failed to yield to ordinary methods.
One day when he placed his hands on my ears I noticed
an unusually strong magnetic current. At the same
{121 J
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
moment he remarked that he saw a large X followed by
an H, and asked if they meant anything to me.
My reason for going to this physician was that I had
heard of his having cured a similar ear trouble for Dr.
Hyslop. Therefore I wondered whether his vision of an
X followed by an H, might in any way be connected with
Dr. Hyslop, especially as the doctor had once spoken of
seeing a vision of him while he was treating me. I did
not consciously recall this incident while B. P. and I were
holding the film a few days later.
The print reproduced in Plate IV shows about half of
the negative. Towards the upper left-hand corner
there is a large X with a small H on one of the inter
secting lines, the lower left. One X near the top of
the print looks rather like a swastika. This would be
of no especial interest were it not for the characters
below it. These, from left to right, are: —a small cross,
and a large V intersecting an ellipse. This group of
characters will be found in the Stainton Moses Script.
The group forms the symbol by which Archdeacon Wil-
berforce purported to manifest himself. "Magus,"
another of this group of communicators, purported to use
the swastika.1 It was not until our photograph had been
submitted to several persons that one of them who had
seen the book suggested that we compare our print with the
plates in The "Controls" of Stainton Moses, by Trethewy. 2
1See J. H. H.'s symbol through Vout-Peters — (Swastika) in James H.
Hyslop— X, His Book, by G. O. Tubby, Rider, London, 1928.
* Tht "Controls" of Stainton Moses, A. W. Trethewy. Hurst & Blackett,
London, 1925.
{122 J
EXPERIMENTS IN PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY
An incident besides that of the doctor's vision adds
interest. In a previous experiment with a plate held in
the same manner with two friends, we obtained a cross
followed by an R. This is a symbol used by "Rector,"
one of the Stainton Moses controls. After learning the
significance of the marks on Plate IV we examined this
other picture again and found on it in two places a large,
faint X which was barely perceptible without the aid of a
glass, and which up to that time had not interested us
particularly beyond asking a photographic expert to tell
us whether the marks might be scratches on the plate.
We then recalled the X in the experiment of May 29,
1924, —almost a year before Plate IV was obtained.
Those who are familiar with the "Piper Records" are
aware that some of the Piper communicators claimed to
be members of the Stainton Moses Group. There seems
to be a certain significance in our having received these
symbols together with that of Dr. Hyslop because —late
in 1925 I had the impulse to offer my services as recorder
and typist to Dr. Titus Bull in his work of psychic healing,
—and —the communicators of the Group directing his
work claim that this group is a reorganisation of the
former one called the "Stainton Moses," and later, The
Piper, or Imperator Group, under which a band of de
ceased scientists have allied themselves for healing, and
of which Dr. J. H. Hyslop is the chief spokesman. Until
I had recorded several sittings I did not know this.
A few days before the experiment with B. P. which
resulted in the photograph reproduced in Plate IV, I had
a sitting with Mrs. Sanders, who, while in trance, told
{123}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
me that Dr. Hyslop was present and wished her to say
that he had been trying to register on my plates. As I
had gone to Mrs. Sanders anonymously she had no espe
cial reason for connecting me with Dr. Hyslop, although
it is often said that mediums allude to well-known names
on the chance of a happy coincidence. Mrs. Sanders had
no normal means of knowing that I had been experi
menting in photography. However, my eight sittings
with this medium were so full of evidence of supernormal
knowledge that her mention of Dr. Hyslop's attempts to
register on my plates is striking when considered with
the other incidents:—the negative of May 29 with a large
X; the negative with a small H on one of the intersecting
lines of a large X, and the Wilberforce symbol; also a
negative with a cross followed by an R, with an X in two
places. This evidence taken as a whole, inclines me to
think that Dr. Hyslop was trying to give me his symbol,
but realising that I might attach no importance to so
simple a character (as was the case), showed it to the
doctor while he was treating me, with an H added for
emphasis. Also that through Mrs. Sanders, he gave the
message about trying to register on my plates, and that
the more complex symbols of the Stainton Moses Group,
{Imperator Group) were given with the X so that I
would be much more apt to search for a meaning and
would consult with one of the few persons who knew that
the X was his own special sign. I cannot help wondering
whether these symbols were prophetic of the work which
I was to take up under Dr. Bull, directed by this Group,
for, humble as my part is in this work, Dr. Hyslop, in
{124)
is
u g
Q 03
m 9
a <
o «
o «
jx S
g Q
* 0
P5
EXPERIMENTS IN PSYCHIC PHOTOGRAPHY
one of his communications, assured us that no one con
nected with it had been selected by chance.
Darget and others are known to have obtained pic
tures of thought forms. But in the instances of which I
have read, these have been produced by gazing at, or
thinking intently about some object, the reproduction of
which was desired and concentrated upon. In our case
B. P. and I were chatting on various subjects while hold
ing the film. We had no expectation of obtaining any
thing more than a photograph of human radiation.
My negatives have been subjected to careful examina
tion by a highly technical expert in photography. This
gentleman, Mr. Hiram Myers, conscientiously has re
jected many of them because he could not feel perfectly
certain that lines and cloudy effects might not have been
due to abrasions, uneven immersion, etc., in case of those
developed at home. He is willing to vouch for his belief
in the supernormal1 quality of the photographs repro
duced here as well as that of certain others in my collec
tion. In making this statement I do not wish to commit
Mr. Myers to any hypothesis explaining these phenomena;
but simply as to his belief that the effects obtained were
due neither to accident nor to fraud.
The reader is referred to Dr. Geley's remarks quoted
on page 115. Even under the strictest conditions, the genu
ineness of psychic photographs must, in the last analysis,
rest upon the character and intelligence of the person or per
sons who handle the plates.
1 See footnote on the term "supernormal," page 26.
v
Chapter Three
NTIL about three years ago I had no personal experi-
ence in psychic healing. Since that time, when I
offered my services to Dr. Titus Bull, as stenographer and
typist, I have taken the notes of from six to eight sittings
a week, and have had charge of arranging and typing the
notes and records, —several thousands of pages. Thus
I can speak from personal observation of Dr. Bull's work.
I understand that it is very similar to that of Dr. Carl
Wickland of California, who has practiced psychic heal
ing for several years.1 Also, as far as I can ascertain,
this seems to be the only type of psychic healing which is
strictly scientific in method.
Some time before the death of Dr. James H. Hyslop,
he and Titus Bull, M.D., of New York, came to the con
clusion that many persons called insane, or hysterical,
were victims of spirit obsession. Experiment confirmed
them in this belief. When Dr. Hyslop was dying he
begged Dr. Bull to endeavor to carry on the work they
had begun together. This Dr. Bull faithfully has done,
1 Thirty Years Among the Dead, Carl A. Wickland, M.D. Published Los
Angeles National Psychological Institute, 1924.
(126)
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
without assistance, without funds, and until a little more
than three years ago, without a suitable medium, at
which time a Mrs. Duke called on him saying that she
had received a message from Dr. Hyslop telling her to
see Dr. Bull who needed a psychic. This lady has proved
a valuable assistant and has psychic gifts of a high
order.
Dr. Bull's work is based upon the assumption that the
entity of an undeveloped person or one who has not con
trolled his passions and appetites, does not leave these
impulses behind with the body, but continues to suffer
from the same cravings which he has sought to gratify
during life; and that such an entity, when separated from
the body, is attracted to some living person through
whose reactions the entity may, by contact, derive a cer
tain satisfaction not unlike a physical sensation.
The unfortunate victims of such persecution are not,
necessarily, persons of like tastes and habits as the entity,
although there may be submerged, repressed impulses
which, if uncontrolled, would lead to similarity. Dr.
Bull finds that normal persons leading rational lives are
protected by a sort of insulation which repels such in
vasion. However, carelessness of thought, illness, worry,
and especially nervous shock, sometimes may break down
this insulation as do excesses and over-indulgence of
physical appetites, leaving an open door by which the
invader may reach the consciousness of such an individual.
It is by no means apparent that all such invasions are
deliberately selfish or malicious. The records show that
frequently, through ignorance of the laws governing such
(127}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
contact, some loved one is harming the patient in an
effort to assist him.
Dr. Bull is a medical man, and his first thought is to
search for a physical cause of the patient's break-down
and to try to remedy it by physical measures. However,
if,
when the physical disturbance
is
remedied, the nervous
or mental condition does not improve, he looks for a
psychic cause. In this endeavor he brings the patient
into contact with
a
medium, who
is
told nothing about
the patient. The medium usually begins by telling of
the symptoms which trouble the patient, and then de
scribes the home environment, —often
a
great factor in
nervous and mental cases. She then proceeds to give the
patient's history from childhood, frequently revealing
some shock in early years which has been forgotten, in
many cases, until recalled to the mind of the patient.
As the sittings go on, the psychic describes various
spirit entities in the patient's environment and, one after
another, allows them to manifest through her with all
the memories of their last illness, the symptoms of which
have been reflected in the patient. Some of the diag
noses obtained through this psychic have been very strik
ing, especially
in
cases where no symptoms of the trouble
were apparent, but where the diagnoses were confirmed,
on examination, by specialists.1
Dr. Bull's chief aim
is
the relief of the patient. He
makes little effort to check the evidential matter in the
records unless
it
has some direct bearing upon the cure.
"On the other hand, patients sometimes manifest symptoms of organic
trouble which does not exist, and
I
think that this familiar and puzzling feature
of neurosis
is
adequately explained by Dr. Bull's records.
{128}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
To do this would require much time. Nevertheless a
great part of it automatically becomes verified as the
sittings proceed. The records are filled with statements
which, later, prove to be correct. The communicators
of the Group say that enough of such matter has been
given to satisfy any reasonable person as to the validity
of their statements, and that hereafter they will make no
effort in this respect as it has delayed their work for the
patient.
Of the patients whom I have seen cured by Dr. Bull's
treatment, three had been in institutions for the insane,
and one of them had been restrained in a strait-jacket.
Another had been in five institutions and was considered
incurable when brought to Dr. Bull. Not all of the
patients have reached such a stage. With some, mental
derangement is only incipient. Certain of the nervous
cases are persons who are not actually obsessed, but
rather, merely overshadowed by entities pressing too
close to them, casting a reflection of memories of their
bodily ills and symptoms which often are shown in the
patient. In such cases lack of coordination, and nervous
maladjustment, are remedied as soon as the entities un
derstand why they should not remain so close to the
patient.1
I am aware that this must seem very repugnant to
those who are unfamiliar with the idea of spirit obsession,
and I admit that it is shocking. It has a bright side,
' Not all of Dr. Bull's patients are nervous or mental cases. I have seen
physical ailments relieved in otherwise normal persons, and have a beautiful
little record of the complete relief of a violent case of hay-fever, in one sitting.
This, of course, is a rare instance, as to the length of time required.
{129}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
however; for if supposedly incurable mental conditions
can be relieved by this method it offers hope to many
whose improvement now is despaired of. Whether or not
the spiritistic hypothesis be accepted should make no
difference to open-minded thinkers, for the method has
shown a pragmatic value, and the hypothesis can be
accepted as a working-plan. Aside from controversy as
to analysis the outstanding fact is apparent—Patients
are relieved of conditions which have not yielded to treat
ment by alienists and psychiatrists.
It should be understood that in speaking as though
the spiritistic hypothesis were accepted, —or acceptable —
I have no desire to impose a personal opinion. As the
method is based upon this hypothesis it may be more
simply described by speaking as though this view were
accepted. Moreover, from the beginning, the work
appears to have been aided and largely directed by a
group of spirit helpers who have made a study of the
method of procedure. The mention of well-known names
arouses criticism, so I shall say only that these helpers
are almost without exception men who, during life, were
eminent in their several lines, —medicine, surgery, psy
chiatry, psychology, psychical research, philosophy and
religious thought. We who have followed these records
for more than two years, have reason to assume that the
communicators of the Group are the persons whom they
represent themselves to be. So many evidences of iden
tity have been given that we have ceased to seek for
further identification.
For the convenience of distinction I shall speak of these
{130}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
helping forces as "Communicators" and of the obsessors
and other entities as "Controls." Not that there is a
fundamental difference in the type of communication
save that the helping forces rarely choose to control the
actions of the medium; whereas the obsessors are per
mitted to do so for demonstration. Indeed, we some
times are told of a "double control" in which a helper
holds control of the medium while allowing, or even forc
ing, an obsessor to speak through her. The helpers seem
to feel that this double control is a valuable achievement
in technique.
Of the obsessing entities who communicate, some have
been fairly well identified. The others are accepted at
face value; for even allowing for masquerading, which all
experienced investigators have encountered, we find that
whether these entities are what they represent themselves
to be or not, they are consistent throughout long records,
as to characteristic speech, action, and purpose. Who
ever or whatever they may be, they remain distinctly
themselves to the end of the record, and even occasion
ally manifest later, in the same consistent manner, some
times through another medium, giving cross-references
which are evidential if not of the true identity, at least
of consistent and persistent personality.
When an obsessor manifests through the medium
Dr. Bull speaks with the entity and tries to make him
understand that in seeking physical sensation through
the physical reactions of another, he not only injures
his victim, but sacrifices his own freedom and develop
ment.
(130
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
Dr. Bull found, a few years ago, that he had a certain
healing power which was felt by his patients when he
laid his hands upon them. The communicators of the
Group usually direct him to give this treatment during
or after the sitting, calling it a "magnetic treatment."
Sometimes he is requested to lay his hands on the me
dium's head while she is controlled by an entity, and
this seems to assist the entity to rid himself of memory-
symptoms.
In most serious cases group-obsession is evident. That
is,
beside the first entity who has made contact with the
patient and who
is
called the "Primary," there
is
a
group
of entities whose impressions are superimposed upon the
first, or primary obsessor. Just as the primary obsessor
is
the one most deeply imbedded in the patient's con
sciousness, so he appears to be the last to be removed,
and he seldom manifests early in the sittings. The pro
cess
is
like the removal of strata or sheaths, layer by layer,
until the primary obsessor
is
reached.
It
is
noted that
in
every case symptoms increase just
before the crisis or complete severance of the contact of
an entity. This may be attributable to excitement and
confusion on the part of the obsessors when they realise
that they must yield to the helping forces. It also
is
evi
dent that when the false energy supplied by obsessors
is
withdrawn from the patient he becomes weak, and more
or less prostrated for
a
time. These facts, which seem to
be quite in accordance with pathological experience, indi
cate why
a
quick method, such as shocking or forcibly
removing an entity, might easily be injurious to both
{132}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
patient and entity, retarding the building up of the first,
and the education and development of the second.
The symptoms, facts of history and environment, and
suggestions for regime, frequently are communicated
through an obsessor who is controlling the medium.
Apparently this is done with the two-fold purpose of giv
ing necessary information while at the same time training
the entity by bringing him into communication with the
doctor. When the entity manifests through the medium
the doctor is able to make him realise that he has passed
out of the body;—a fact of which many seem to be una
ware until they have demonstrated once or twice.
I have been asked in what way this method differs
from that of psycho-analysis. The difference is very
great, as will be seen;—first, because primarily the work
is directed by the Group of spirit helpers; and secondly,
because as it is carried on with the assumption of the
spiritistic hypothesis, the effort is directed not only to
ward relieving and educating the patient, but also toward
helping and enlightening the obsessing entities who mani
fest. Merely relieving the patient of the contact of these
entities would not protect him from further invasion; nor
would it prevent the entities from seeking contact with
some other unfortunate. The aim is to teach the patient
to protect himself from such inroads and to build up his
will power. At the same time an effort is made to arouse
in the obsessor a desire to progress. In this task of en
lightenment the group of spirit helpers takes the larger
part; but the awakening of the entities to reality begins
when they manifest through the medium and Dr. Bull
(133)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
has an opportunity to speak with them. In most in
stances they at first are unaware of their condition, or
that they have passed out of the body, and merely seem
to be conscious that the conditions in which they find
themselves are strange and bewildering.
While some are deliberately evil in purpose, many of
these entities have no idea that they are injuring someone
else, and are willing to leave the patient, but quite unable
to do so without assistance from the helping forces.
This whole subject is so new to most persons, who
think of obsession as of some legend of the remote past,
that it is difficult to grasp the tremendous implications
which it carries with it;— the wide application which it
has to various problems. 1
Dr. Bull, who feels keenly the
importance of its being better understood, has given me
permission to include a digest of one of his cases as an
illustration of his method. I wish to acknowledge his
kindness in allowing me to use this material, and also to
express my appreciation of what he has taught me and
the privilege of working under the guidance of the Group.
He has allowed me to select any case which I prefer as an
example, and I have chosen one which interests me more
than any other in the series.
THE CASE OF MR. C. E.
A Digest
From a record of Titus Bull, M.D.
In attempting to give an outline of this case, I find it
difficult to condense it within the space of a chapter and
1 Latent criminal tendencies, juvenile delinquency, Capital Punishment, etc
{134}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
at the same time to describe all developments chronologi
cally. When the case was completed the record contained
thirty-nine sittings, some as long as fifteen and even
twenty typed pages, with additional pages of annotations.
Not only is the case long, but it is extremely complex,
involving many different personalities. For this reason
it is confusing to the reader, and in order to simplify it I
shall describe the group of entities before speaking of the
progress of the case, instead of mentioning them in their
order of manifestation during the process of removal.
For understanding of the work, a brief outline of Mr.
C. E.'s history is important.
HISTORY
When this patient came to Dr. Bull it was difficult to
obtain any facts by direct questioning for he babbled
ceaselessly and was unable to keep to any subject except
that of his painting and inventions, and the fame which
they would bring him. It was only by patient attention
that the doctor was able to piece together some outline
of his history. Most of the important facts of his early
history were revealed, bit by bit, through statements
made by the medium and confirmed by the patient.1
Although only forty-nine years of age, this patient
talked and acted like a senile old man. He was unable
1 The weakest feature of this case, from the evidential view-point is the fact
that as this patient was so alone in the world, without family or intimate
associates, we were obliged to depend upon him for verification of most of
the statements regarding his history. However, had he been inclined to
untruthfulness, I think the reader will agree that he would have been more
apt to deny than to confirm most of the statements.
(135)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
to concentrate enough to reply to a question. It seemed
amazing that he had been able to appear normal enough
while at work, to have kept a position. Up to the age of
eleven he had been normally healthy, although his child
hood was unhappy. His parents were poor, but not
illiterate; they came of a better class socially than their
neighbors. At the age of eleven he received an injury
to the head from a blow. He developed epilepsy, the
attacks increasing in frequency until he was taken to a
hospital, where a surgeon planned to operate for pressure
on the brain. The surgeon died and the operation was
never performed. The boy was taken home. The epilep
tic seizures continued for some time. When they ceased
they left him morose and inclined to solitude. He was
unable to concentrate, and his schooling, owing to bad
health, was intermittent.
The injury to the head and the subsequent stay in hos
pital were not mentioned by the patient. He only re
called the facts when they were stated by the medium,
when he said that he remembered having been told that
he was unconscious for several hours after receiving the
injury. The period of adolescence was disturbed by
obscene visions and impulses. The habit of masturbation
was formed and continued up to the time of his treat
ment by Dr. Bull. This also was revealed first by the
medium and confirmed by the patient.
From early childhood the patient had a mechanical
taste and loved to use tools. He went to work at four
teen, but was not well enough to hold a regular position.
He was constantly troubled by a dual stream of conscious
{136 J
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
ness, causing mental conflict and indecision. This double
stream of consciousness persisted up to the time of his
cure. An extraordinary feature was that it only attained
a violent stage of mental conflict when the patient was
alone. It confused him somewhat when meeting others
socially, which made him still more of a recluse; but as he
grew older it seemed not to interfere with his work and he
was able to maintain himself frugally, and even held a
minor position in one company for ten years. He lived
alone in a rented room leading the life of a hermit, spend
ing all leisure time in working on mechanical inventions,
and later, in drawing and painting. He had a natural
love of refinement and beauty.
When a friend gave him a Ouija board he found that he
could obtain messages, and later he used a pencil for auto
matic writing. He received a message telling him to try
crayons. Then followed a long period during which he
drew, automatically, grotesque crayon pictures of crea
tures which he sometimes saw around him. A message
then instructed him to buy oil paints. After some suc
cessful efforts at automatic painting, a mental conflict of
a different nature developed. There seemed to be one
force impelling the production of the grotesque figures,
while another urged an entirely different type of painting.
He seemed to be controlled first by one and then by the
other force.
Finally a message was written automatically informing
him that the evil force had been driven away and that he
would paint under the influence of the communicator who
was a great artist. This entity said he was Josef Selleny,
{137)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
that he was born near Vienna, had exhibited in the
Imperial Art Gallery, had accompanied the then Crown
Prince Franz Joseph on a world tour, and had gone to
Mexico with Maximilian. He said that on his return to
Vienna he was made president of the Art League, and that
he died in Austria.
The work done under this influence is interesting; but
as the patient was completing a large landscape under
this control another conflict took place. Mr. C. E. be
came so violently deranged that some of the persons who
roomed in the house called an ambulance and he was taken
to an institution for the insane. After a period of re
straint he appeared to recover and was released, when he
came to Dr. Bull and asked for help. The entity who
claimed to be Selleny has not manifested since this last
violent conflict.
When I read the Selleny communication I was rather
sceptical. It seemed too glib and precise to be genuinely
supernormal and I thought it would prove to be a sub
conscious memory on the patient's part, of a passage seen
in a book; or else one of those utterly spurious messages,
so prone to exact detail about some purely fictitious
character. In the New York Library I found three en
cyclopedias containing short biographies ofJoseph Selleny.
(The name in the automatic script was spelled Josef. 1)
Of these three books, one was in English, one in French,
and one in German. The statements made in the script
"A friend from Vienna informs me that Joseph is spelled with an F in
Austria so it would seem that the entity spelled his own name correctly and
that the encyclopedias are at fault.
{138}
Automatic Crayon Drawing from "The C. E. Case
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
are verified, in each volume, except that in the English
and French biographies no mention is made of the Em
peror Maximilian. In the German account Selleny is
said to have accompanied Maximilian to Northern Africa
and to Brazil. Mr. C. E. is too ignorant of these subjects
to know that these slight errors would strengthen the
evidential value of the message, and he reads neither
French nor German. However, the most interesting dis
covery that I made, in view of the fact that it was under
this control that the patient became violently deranged,
is that the artist, Selleny, died insane.1
DRAWINGS AND PAINTINGS
The early work is in pencil, and has intricate and lovely
designs. One drawing covers a large sheet of paper two
or more feet square, with delicate spirals and spider-web
designs in one unbroken line. The pencil has not been
lifted from the paper. In the crayon work the lurid and
repulsive predominate.' The colors are heavy, and the
figures are monsters with heads like gargoyles which have
no bodies but are set on what appears to be a mass of
viscera. In spite of ugliness these figures are far from
being without artistic merit. The drawing is bold and
effective and the leering, vicious faces are extraordinary.
Two of Mr. C. E.'s attempts at oil painting when not
under control are landscapes of the crude sort which any
one with a little sense of color and perspective might
achieve. The brush-work is clumsy and heavy, and they
1 Allgemeines Kunstler-Lexicon. —Hans Wolfgang Singer—Frankfurt. Dic-
tionnaire des Peintres, Sculptures: Etc.—Benezet. Bryan's Dictionary of Painters,
' See pages 139-149.
1139}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
look like the work of a beginner or of a clever child. I
have seen only one of the paintings done under the Selleny
control, —the last, over which the final conflict occurred.
It is a canvas about twenty-eight inches long by twenty
inches, and represents a lonely lake with masses of forest
foliage around it. There are distant mountains in the
background.1 It is almost impossible to believe that this
picture was painted by the same hand that executed the
two crude pictures which I mentioned. Perspective, color
ing, and detail show astonishing technique. Hidden in
the masses of foliage are the heads of animals, which
C. E. did not discover until they were called to his atten
tion by automatic writing in which he was told of the
symbolism in this picture. During the conflict which took
place as the painting was completed, Mr. C. E. was im
pelled against his will to paint out a delicate sky by cover
ing it with a lurid red.
GROUP OF OBSESSORS
I—Old Man —relative—had paresis —senile —an ego
tistical babbler. Was a drunkard —sexual —brings
cough.
II—Mohammedan Priest —Masquerades as benevolent
wise-man. Very clever —sexual —violent —stimu
lates ambition for fame and power.
Ill—A Sexual Maniac —Elderly man picked up at
spiritistic seance. Not allowed to manifest because
too violent and obscene —Brings cough.
1 See cut facing p. 126.
{140 J
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
IV—Half Breed Mexican Indian —Inspired lurid
pictures of Aztec character—very sensual.
SECONDARY ENTITIES
I—An Oriental who assists priest.
II—Young Man brought by priest to assist him—A
dipsomaniac —Diseased.
III—A Japanese—Gentle character—interested in paint
ing—Willing to cooperate with Doctor to help
Patient.
IV—Young Indian girl—Easily removed.
Various relatives trying to help Patient. Names veri
fied by him. A Brother John—A Brother W. E.—Aunt
Mary —Maggie, a friend. An old man accepted by the
helpers, who wishes, by working under them, to atone
for trouble he "unwittingly caused the patient."
This old man seems to have a soothing influence upon
the patient. Might be Selleny, but this is not stated.
Instead of assisting the patient, the well-meaning relatives
have added to his confusion because of their own lack of
knowledge of psychic laws.
CHARACTERISTICS AND EFFECTS OF OBSESSORS
MOHAMMEDAN PRIEST
This is the first obsessor to manifest through the
medium. He demonstrates at the second sitting. The
medium is reluctant to allow him to speak and asks the
doctor if he wishes a full demonstration so that he may
{HO
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
know with what a violent entity he is dealing. The
doctor requests enough of a demonstration for full under
standing. The entity is arrogant and defiant. Were the
medium entranced 1
she would strike the doctor with any
convenient weapon. As it
is,
she permits
a
certain amount
of violence, depicting
a
vicious force and his passionate
hatred of all who are not of his faith. Medium snarls,
hisses and springs at Doctor's throat.
After
a
few such violent demonstrations the entity, at
the fifth seance, shows confusion of thought, but con
tinues to display bitter hatred. He declares that the
doctor and the Group are hundreds of years behind, in
knowledge; that he himself, and his caste, are "the aris
tocrats of learning." He says: "While your priests talk
foolishness from the altars, we surely kill at the roots.
When you call on your dozens, I,
if
I
need, call upon
thousands.
"
He claims hypnotic power and makes passes
over the doctor. Is enraged at their lack of effect.
The communicators instruct the patient how to resist
impressions from the priest, who boasts that he has made
the patient, and many others, believe him
a
great patri
arch and
a
holy wise-man. The priest shrinks from
a
light. It seems not to be the Recorder's lamp but
a
light
which
is
invisible to us. He cries out in fear of the light;
then says he
is
told by the helpers that
it
would be worse
for him
if
they threw him into outer darkness instead of
1
Mrs. Duke
is
never entranced, or unaware of what she says and does.
She
is
at all times able to inhibit, or limit,
a
manifestation, and often reluctant
to permit the control of
a
violent or obscene entity. She allows such an entity
to control her speech and action, only at the request of the doctor, so that
he may better understand how to deal with him.
{142}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
forcing him into the light.1 The medium appears to have a
terrible struggle to escape from something, crouching,
and convulsed with fear. The patient reacts to this
struggle only by trembling. In his position (Lying on an
operating table) he cannot see the medium. The medium
is weak and nauseated after the priest's demonstration
but recovers quickly. A communicator says: "How
could such hate have survived, down through the ages?"
The patient's improvement after this s6ance is marked.
YOUNG MAN
At the thirteenth sitting the priest, realising that he
is beginning to lose control, brings an assistant to help
him. This is a young man of modern times, —not an
Oriental. His language is so vile that the medium refuses
much of it. This entity reproaches the doctor for
"
trying
to throw them all out.
"
Speaks of having been a drunk
ard. Is afraid of an Indian force among the helpers of
the Group. He says that he and the old man (the Pri
mary) are having "a rough time to hang on," and that
the old man is "a bit of a rake" in spite of his age. He
says he feels heavy and sleepy (the usual effect produced
by the helpers on a violent entity, to subdue him and to
spare the medium). Feels all the symptoms and after
effects of former debauches. Says that he haunts places
where he can smell liquor, implying that he feels certain
reactions of persons who are drinking. Says he is diseased
1 This is very characteristic. The undeveloped or evil entities always speak
of the room being dark and appear to shrink from light. When such an entity
speaks of the surroundings becoming lighter we know that an improvement
may be expected.
(143)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
and "just rotting away"; that the patient feels badly too;
that the patient is like a fiddle with four strings;—when
one is out of tune the others suffer also. He hears some
one say: "Why don't you tune in with God?" Replies
that he cannot see Him. He sees a cross and says that
he was brought up under "that beautiful thing," but
never liked the way the churches harped on the agony
and crucifixion, saying:—"Do you think it is right to
make Him die every minute, like they do in the churches ?
"
The medium is weeping as the entity leaves. Communi
cators tell us that this entity is now in a state of mind
where he can be taught and helped by those on their side.
SEXUAL MANIAC
I have said that this entity was not permitted to demon
strate. At the fourth sitting he is described as "Madly
sexual, —as crazy as ever any has been. I ask you if you
know that that road has been worn, secretly, for years?"
(Allusion to habit of self-abuse.) "Not implying that it
is necessarily so now. It explains the attraction and shows
why he (entity) is around. This one has held the patient
for hours, under domination. If his, the patient's, charac
teristics had not been what they are, there would have
been far worse conditions for him to meet. And crime
would have been committed." (The patient is gentle and
refined).
OLD MAN RELATIVE (PRIMARY)
This entity's first demonstration is at the fourth sitting,
but is a very feeble one. He is said to have had paresis.
{144}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
Is very egotistical and argumentative, but senile and
foolish, babbling aimlessly, always about himself, as
"We"; which is his manner of speaking of the patient
and himself as inseparable. The traits of the old man are
characteristic of the patient, but the medium has not
talked with him, or seen him except when he was lying
quietly on the table. The entity is feeble, but can pull
himself (Medium) out of chair and take little trembling
steps.
As the sittings proceed the entity complains that it is
becoming difficult for him to talk, and reproaches the
doctor for checking his talk. It is true that the doctor
has checked the patient when he was garrulous; but this
was when alone with him after the sitting, and not in the
medium's presence. The old man tries to sing in a cracked
voice. He says that "sometimes five go into our house,"
meaning the patient's body. The entity remarks that
Charlie (name of patient given for first time) was ill when
a boy; that three doctors examined him and said there
was something soft in his head. He, the entity, claims
that something was "blocked."
This old man is not to be removed forcibly. Gradually
he is to be taught and helped, until he shall be willing to
leave voluntarily out of regard for the patient, for whom
he seems to have a selfish affection; and also because he
will realise, eventually, that he himself will be better
away from the contact.
The patient has an attack of Erysipelas of the face,
and goes to a hospital for a week. Through the medium,
who is unaware of this, the Old Man tells of "their"
(145)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
experience. He speaks of seeing a man's leg put in plaster
and says that something was done to the patient which
"shocked the old man out," meaning himself. The com
municators tell us that the shock mentioned was a pain
ful treatment, —the application of ice to the inflamed
face, which acted like a galvanic battery in its effect upon
the entity. The Old Man describes a spirit doctor
(W. T. B.) who has talked to him and who is going to help
him. The entity says he will do as he is told, but that
when he leaves the patient, as he now does at times, the
patient feels "empty."
The communicators say that the brain control, which
the old man has had over the patient, has been severed,
but that bodily memory-conditions are felt. At a later
sitting the entity says that he has lost interest in every
thing and feels as though he were "dying again." This
re-enactment of the death throes is a common occurrence
with an entity at the time of complete removal. The
Old Man says that he no longer is attached to the patient,
but cannot leave him yet, altogether. The medium
appears very weak under this control, and can barely
whisper.
At the twenty-eighth sitting the Old Man manifests
and proudly shows how well he can walk. He says that
he and the patient have severed partnership and that
"We" no longer are we. The entity speaks intelligently,
with humor and vivacity. He asks to have the Recorder
sent from the room so that he may speak more freely
with the doctor, and finally explains that he wishes to
tell the doctor that he now is free from sexual urge.
( 146]
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
Shakes hands with the doctor, expressing gratitude.
Speaks of his daughter Mary1 and says he was born "on
the other side of the water." Refers to his former an
tagonism toward the doctor and the Group. He still feels
hostile toward churchmen. He calls attention to a slight
brogue which has" not been noticeable in his speech until
recently, and says it has slipped back because he now is
himself. He explains that he is not to leave the patient
yet, although the connection between them has been
severed.
JAPANESE
At the twenty-ninth seance an entity manifests who
claims that he has painted through the patient's hand
and did only very small pictures. It is true that the
patient at first used very small canvases. This entity is
willing to leave the patient but regrets discontinuation
of the painting. He is gentle, and not at all evil in type.
He speaks of interference from other entities and says
that the red background in some picture represents evil.
Says that he himself has been allowed to remain near the
patient, and was the only good entity found by the helpers,
in the patient's environment. He begs permission to have
the patient continue painting, but is not resentful when
the doctor refuses to allow it.
a "stray"
The medium is controlled by an entity who only makes
unintelligible sounds. J. H. H. (Communicator) explains
1 The patient's aunt.
(147)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
that it is a deaf mute who could have been sent away,
but that he thought the doctor would be interested in the
demonstration. He says that the patient came in contact
with this entity only a few days ago, and —"The nearer
each case comes to completion, the more you may expect
the occasional stranger. It is a problem that is giving
us much to think of. Sometimes I wish that we had a
little less for it is the 'Open Door' question.'
"
(This
invasion by "strays," toward the end of a case has been
noticeable in several instances.)
Dr. Bull asks J. H. H. why, if it seems to be a law that,
to be well, the patient must develop psychically, a control
should not be given him and he be allowed to develop.
J. H. H. replies that they have their hands full.
HALF-BREED MEXICAN INDIAN
This entity has inspired grotesque figures and pictures
of Aztec character. He is very sensual. The patient
recalls having been friendly with a young Mexican who
he thought had a trace of Indian blood. This young man
stayed for a time at the same rooming-house as the
patient who suggests that this entity may have been
contacted through him.
SYMPTOMS, DIAGNOSIS, AND PROGRESS OF CASE
The communicators say that the patient never has had
perfect co-ordination. He is told that if he persists in
painting, or in any other exercise of psychic faculty, it
will bring about his destruction. In speaking of his gar-
{I48}
Automatic Crayon Drawing from "The C. E. Case.
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
rulousness, W. T. B. says that if this automatic speech
were taken from the patient he would be left very poor;
that some of the obsessors have been with him for so
many years that he will feel stranded, empty, and lonely,
when they are removed, and that it will be a slow and
painful process for him to learn to function in his own
personality.
The patient is advised to eat lightly, as the blood cur
rent should not be diverted from the brain. There is
said to be a pressure at the base of the brain which the
helpers are trying to remove. They wish to have no
sudden changes in blood current. Dr. Bull is told not to
think it an alarming symptom if the patient becomes pros
trated. The medium describes an oppression through the
solar plexus, a bad head condition particularly on left
side, a pounding in ears, and a nervous, restless feeling.
Also numbness and pain in right forearm. These symp
toms are verified by Patient.
Medium describes a cough which she says comes from
the contact of both the Sexual Maniac and the Old Man.
She says the patient is anxious about trifles, —has magni
fied them for years. That he now has less trouble with
dream imagery which has disturbed sleep, but that ten
sion is still high. She mentions a faulty condition of
blood, said to be caused by the Old Man's memory-
symptoms of venereal trouble.
A communicator says that for eighteen years or more,
one hemisphere of the brain has been just barely in exist
ence, and that they "have had to devise ways and means,
not only for rebuilding tissues that were senilely decayed,
{ H9 1
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
but to re-educate the patient to use the part of himself
which has not functioned. The patient is just coming
into his own for the first time since he was a young boy.
He has lost years, and is just coming back to entity with
a full stream of consciousness."
Medium speaks of the patient's sense of loss, and of
pain in the back of his head. (Confirmed by patient.)
The patient says he is just beginning to live, whereas
heretofore he only has existed. His ambitious dreams
are subsiding. (Eleven sittings have been held up to
this time.) A communicator says that the removal of
the Mohammedan Priest is like the tearing away of a
growth, and leaves a soreness.
Medium says the occipital region is affected. She
tells the patient that he feels a tingling between shoulders
running up to his head (correct), and that it is a treat
ment being given. He has begun to feel more at peace.
His strength and endurance are increasing. Medium says
that the patient has painted pictures which he felt were
very important; that he has become so absorbed in this
that his outside work has begun to suffer. She describes
the prostration after this absorption in painting, and
says: —"It was at the time of absorption, which almost
became possession, that he was in the greatest danger but
didn't know it. And if it were possible for him to retrace,
mentally, he would find that it was immediately follow
ing that he had his greatest lapses in the habit he him
self wanted to break." (Verified by Patient.)
The patient becomes resigned to giving up his painting.
The medium states that he had a lesion of the inner plate
{I50}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
of the skull which has been relieved by the treatment of
the helping forces. She refers to his having found things
in his pictures which he did not know were there. (Animal
faces in foliage, etc.)
The communicators assure the patient that his me
chanical inventions and his paintings are of no real value;
that they were inspired by evil forces with the object of
gaining control, through his absorption and through stim
ulating ambitious dreams of greatness. From boyhood,
the patient has masturbated. His absorption while paint
ing has amounted almost to complete control by the
obsessor, and usually was followed by the self-abuse de
sired by the Priest, who thus obtained vicarious satisfac
tion through the reactions of his victim. Dr. Bull insists
that the patient control this habit, and that he avoid the
psychic automatisms,—painting, writing, etc., which
have led to such indulgence and have left him physically
and mentally depleted. These instructions were not
given in the medium's presence, nor has the patient been
allowed to speak during the sitting except to reply "yes"
or "no" to a question put by the doctor. The medium
knew nothing of the patient's history, but gradually gave
it quite fully, and her statements were verified later by
the patient when alone with the doctor. In giving his
history to the doctor in the beginning, Mr. C. E. either
forgot, or neglected to mention, the injury to his head,
and the contemplated operation. These were mentioned
first by the medium, and recalled and corroborated by the
patient. Neither did the patient speak of his habit of
self-abuse, which also was referred to first by the medium
(151)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
and admitted by the patient. The medium knew nothing
about the painting; she spoke of it as an "impression,"
when she was not under control.
At the thirty-first sitting the medium is shown a vision
which she describes thus:—"I am seeing the skull opened
like the two sides of an egg shell. On the left side, as I
saw
it,
Isaw
a
hemisphere of the brain which looked much
like
a
kidney in shape.
I
saw
a
network of blood vessels
and they seemed to function normally, and this filled its
place
in
the skull nicely. There was
a
thicker place that
seemed like an exit. This
is
the normal side.
I
imagine
I
am looking at the front of this section. The rear
is
a
larger lobe than the front. The other hemisphere
is
much
smaller, and uneven in shape. And toward the back and
right side
is
a
partial separation following the line of
cleavage; and the edges near the back are uneven. They
tell me this was the original condition when they took
charge here. That even ten months ago,
if
you could
have had
a
picture,
it
would have shown this appearance.
If you wait
a
moment they will try and put over
a
pic
ture of its present condition.
"In the last picture, they omitted to state that the
exit was smaller on this side, and convoluted. Now in
the present condition, the break has come together and
the thickened, and slightly congealed blood vessels ex
tend to the top of this. The space taken up
is
much larger,
although not quite normal yet. And the exit, also,
is
almost normal in size, and no longer convoluted. It was
this hemisphere which the Old Man used. It has been
while they were rebuilding this that our friend had to
(152
J
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
remain in this slightly dazed condition, and it is also one
of the reasons why sleep was so hard to obtain. This
last week they have been trying to clear the blood vessels
on that side which has not been well described in this
picture. And they wish it had been possible for this to
have been shown in a series of real pictures; for it would
have been unique to have shown the actual rebuilding of
brain tissue. They say that probably, even then, no one
would believe it."
Here the communicator, J. H. H., says: —"You are
aware, are you not, how this case would have been de
scribed by a brain-man? Softening of the brain is the
term. That's this picture, as seen by the Instrument
(Medium). It was correct; and if the front should be the
back, technically,—turn the slide around."
J. H. H. tells Dr. Bull to prescribe a tonic for the
patient. The communicators describe the attempt of the
Priest to re-establish control through the help of the
Young Man. The patient is stronger. A relative who
communicates says that the Old Man is much better and
only visits the patient occasionally. He says that from
the time the patient was nine years old he had bad com
panions. Speaks of his having had more rest lately
(correct), and says that he can think more clearly.
An Indian helper of the Group communicates and ad
vises a mild sedative as he says the patient is tired and
sleeps very little, even now. He suggests massage, and
says patient needs rousing. The Old Man manifests.
He now says there were five, and sometimes six, in
"Charlie's house," meaning the patient's body. "They
{ iS3)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
don't come close now, but all are not gone yet." He
says that the patient does not drink but that he himself
did.
Communicator W. J. remarks:—"When reason is un
seated by vice or accident, people revert to animal in
stincts; and if an animal can't be natural he takes un
natural gratifications. That is why drink and abnormal
cravings go together. When one cannot get one, he takes
the other." —And the Old Man continues, "That is why
I had to take what I could get. The stupor brought on
by one excess took the place of the other; and I've got to
take all the blame for the first trouble."
At the thirty-seventh sitting Mr. C. E. shows great im
provement. He no longer moves like an automaton; is
more animated, less apprehensive, thinks more quickly
and clearly. The oppressed feeling in head is disappearing
as is also the dual stream of consciousness.
The Half-Breed is removed at the thirty-eighth s6ance.
As so often is the case during the final removal of an
entity, he appears to re-enact his death throes through
the body of the medium. The patient's condition is
peaceful and good. We are told that the entity just re
moved has been responsible for the visions preventing
sleep.
At the final, and thirty-ninth sitting, the Old Man
manifests and rejoices in the breaking of the last link be
tween the patient and himself. Mr. C. E. now is normal
and agreeable in conversation; considerate, and interested
in others. Whereas once he thought and spoke only of
himself, he now appears to be sympathetic toward fellow
(154)
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
patients, keenly interested in their recovery, and ready
to efface himself. He talks much less; his remarks are
intelligent and well-informed. He seems grateful, and
appreciative of what has been done for him, and tries to
follow directions for maintaining his new-found mental
and physical adjustment. Until recently he has lacked
the will-power, or, perhaps, the intelligence to obey in
structions.
ABSTRACTS FROM COMMUNICATIONS —REMARKS
A few abstracts from the record will give an idea of
the type of communications received from the members
of this Group of helping forces. They are very charac
teristic of the persons from whom they purport to come,
and add greatly to the literary value of the records.
Three of the communicators sometimes refer to them
selves as "The Great American Triangle." These are
J. H. H., W. J., and R. H. W. T. B. was a noted surgeon.
F. W. H. M., H. W. B., P. B., and many others are well
known for their literary and philosophical work. It is
claimed that two French scientists lately have spent much
time with the Group, as observers.1 Should the very
natural question be asked why I have mentioned no women
members of this Group (only one has been referred to by
the communicators), I can only suggest that the work ap-
1 One of these contributed a diagnosis. The medium touched the back of her
head and said, "He says there is a clow,—a clow—hysteric?" I asked her
to request him to spell it aloud, as I guessed that she saw the letters, instead
of receiving it clairaudiently, and had mispronounced a French word. She
slowly spelled "C-L-O-U." This puzzled the doctor. I looked it up in my
French medical dictionary, and found "Clou Hystirique" described. Dr.
Bull said it applied accurately to the case.
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
pears to be conducted on strict scientific lines; that the
members of the Group taking an active part in the work
were almost without exception, during life, eminent special
ists in some line:—medicine, surgery, psychiatry, neurology,
psychology, psychical research, philosophy, and religious
thought. It must be remembered that until recent years,
few women have attained such standing. Mention has
been made of the "White Sisters," and of a band of
"Mothers," in connection with the training and develop
ment of entities who have been freed from contact with
the patients. The helpers of the Group say that they
themselves are not supposed to follow up the work of edu
cating the entities, which is another branch of service.
One thing in regard to this Group is unique in my ex
perience. This
is,
that the members seem to work abso
lutely as
a
unit. Whereas
in
other instances most com
municators seem anxious to claim some personal credit
for results accomplished, in this Group one meets with
nothing of the kind. Not one among them appears to
have the slightest interest in whether he, or another,
originated some valuable idea of method or technique.
Accomplishment
is
the only aim. If Dr. Bull
is
not fully
in agreement with them upon some point, the matter
is
discussed as
it
would be by any group of consulting physi
cians who are interested only
in
making
a
correct diag
nosis, and in the welfare of the patient.
ABSTRACTS
J.
H. H.—"If you could only instill, before adolescence,
a
full picture of the consequences of yielding to wrong
{156}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
desire, we should put our finger on the key to much of the
misery in the world today. It is no wonder they speak of
the torture of damned souls over here. There is no greater
suffering than an unquenchable desire for something un
obtainable. You can expatiate and fill in much more
than I have said, from your records. I think the only
death we have over here is such wages for the sins of the
flesh. I think that without exception, every case handled
has shown, either in a small or marked degree, the effort
of some so-called 'damned soul' to find expression for
lustful desire through some poor unfortunate instrument
on your side who, at some time, has opened the door by
taking a step in the same direction."
J. H. H.—(Speaking of Mohammedan Priest) "One
might suggest a line of thought by saying that the old
fellow is at least a triple personality."
Dr. Bull—" Do you mean that the Priest himself was
under the dominance of other forces?"
J. H. H.—"Yes; one of our Group wanted to speak
about mass-hallucination. Well, I am touching on that
issue. It is expressing myself on a complicated problem." 1
J. H. H.—"I wish to draw aside the curtain so that our
friend (Patient) may see. We had to wait for an inner
change in him before entering this phase. The almost
1This
is,
no doubt, an allusion to
a
group, of the existence of which we
have evidence, and of which the members are said to be under the domination
of very powerful and evil forces. Other experimenters also have re
ceived evidence of such
a
group whose activities seem to have been far-reaching.
Their efforts seem to be directed especially against anyone engaged in humani
tarian work such as Dr. Bull's, and against mediums who are honest and un
selfish. Might this not account for certain cases where mediums who have
been sincere and trustworthy suddenly resort to trickery?
(157)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
complete control of the old Priest and the Half-Breed
was what actually drove him here to you. I think that,
on the record, the nefarious purpose of the first already
has been shown. The object of the second was exactly
the same, but reached more directly toward gratification.
And the last condition would have been the worse. Yet
some readers would say, 'Why meddle with things psy
chic?' If what I have just sketched is possible, it is only
by understanding the laws that we can save those who
become enmeshed. Dynamite and electricity are danger
ous, but that is no reason to stop using them. I'll venture
a bold saying:—that in two years' work here we have
uncovered more data on which to base judgment of such
laws, than in any other time in the history of the move
ment. Knowledge is safety."
J. H. H.—"It has been quite apparent, in three cases
being handled, that the very last one to be removed has
been the one who made the original contact; and the
process is slow and involved. They (the obsessors) have
been physical leeches for years, not months; and their
whole expression has been in the physical, as far as demon
stration is concerned." J. H. H. goes on to say that as
an entity is being eliminated from physical contact, his
demonstration becomes more feeble, but that this does
not mean that the entity is less than he was; —merely
that his physical expression grows less. He is being edu
cated to do without sense-expression, and "Naturally
when it is the only thing they have lived for, it leaves
little for them to express through a medium. You would
find a great change, should such an entity manifest after
{158}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
a few months' absence; a demonstration more nearly
approaching the real self."1
W. J.—"There is no such thing as pure science, with
the personal equation left out. It's too bad that the soul
is not more concrete —like some people's heads. No scien
tist would admit such a possibility as anything that he
could not dissect. And between some of your psycholo
gists and would-be psycho-analysts, it is a wonder the
poor souls under them have a shred of soul left. ... In
passing, I will say that I, like the rest, have my regrets
that I did not bend a little more of my energy to clearing
the road that would have
'
broken through the last bit of
the tunnel.' I never knew how much undue credit went
with my name while I was over with you. Now the main
work is gone, and I have time to attend to the side-lines,
which, I have discovered, are not the side-lines, but con
trol the mainsprings of all the sciences."
W. T. B.—"From a medical view-point, speech is some
times automatic. Outside of the case where we know it is
automatic, speech is often, in, I might say, the majority,
not a thinking process at times. Also, much an auto
matic association of ideas. If we took automatic speech
from our patient just now it would leave him rather poor.
His own ego is like a hermit."
W. T. B. expresses sympathy for the patient and for
the Old Man obsessor, saying that the latter, also, was a
man who through his mistakes, lost all. He remarks that
to him the results seem out of proportion to the original
stimuli, and adds that there is danger that a too wide
1 Such as the return of brogue in the speech of the Old Man.
1 159)
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
acceptance of all this might do away with the feeling of
responsibility.
"
It would be used as an excuse by many."
To which J. H. H. says: —"I hold that the original fault
is individual, but the responsibility belongs to people at
large, for improper training."
F. W. H. M.—(Speaking of obsessors)
"
So-called vil
lains,—and yet, what is their trouble except thought
gone wrong?"
J. H. H. speaks of unconscious fraud on the spirit side,
saying that it is confusing, and that investigators are
" Try
ing to prove a kite by a small, detached fragment of its tail."
Communicators mention different types of psychic
force used at these sittings. One type is said to be used
for helping the patient; another for weakening the en
tities before their removal, to lessen the struggle and to
spare the medium. This second type of force seems to
act like an opiate.
The communicators tell us that much quicker methods
could be used, but that they would be hard on the patient.
That time-values, while not entirely negligible to them,
are of less consideration than to us. They speak of using
a "healing ray."
The patient is told that he was right to refuse an offer.
The medium did not know that my son had offered a
liberal sum for the "Selleny" landscape.
When the patient seems worse we are reminded that,
speaking pathologically, symptoms increase just before a
crisis; that this is true even regarding suppuration, and
that, symbolically, such, recently, has been the patient's
condition.
{160}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
We are told that when an entity has made contact soon
after death, in the close way in which the Old Man
obsessor has done, he becomes "interlocked" with the
patient, and that the mentality of such an entity cannot
be restored until he has given up the connection. J. H. H.
says that "a rash exorcist" could have removed this en
tity quickly, but would thereby have wrecked both en
tity and patient, physically and mentally.
Of the patient's physical weakness the communicators
say: —"Obsessing forces are like strong drink in more
ways than one. They hold up, and give false energy
while dominant; but their absence causes somewhat of a
physical collapse." They say they do not wonder that
the patient finally broke down, but rather, are amazed
that his mind continued to function at all.
J. H. H. warns Dr. Bull against being too explicit in
records for publication, reminding him that Lodge's
honesty in giving matter in full was rewarded by hos
tility and ridicule.
After certain sittings for the removal of entities, no
demonstrations are given. We are told that these sittings
are devoted to healing, after a literal "tearing away."
We are instructed to make direct request for protection
after the demonstration of an evil force.
Reference is made to a period of ill-health through
which Dr. Bull passed two years or more ago, and which
has been experienced by several persons connected with
the work. The explanation given by the communicators
is similar to that made by R. E. Bruce, in an article
called "Harmony and Health," in which he speaks of an
{ 161 }
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
intermediate stage of development: —"It may be a con
siderable time before the body, mind, and spirit, are all
adjusted to that new rhythm which the spirit now de
mands, and during the process of this adjustment (psychic
development) ill-health is very likely to occur."
The communicators say that the attention which they
had given to gathering evidential matter for the records
has somewhat delayed their work for the patients; that
now, after two years of carefully collected and recorded
evidence, they will cease to make a point of it and will
concern themselves less with the records than with the
pragmatic side of the work, feeling that enough evidence
has been given to convince any fair-minded person of the
validity of their statements.
The foregoing extracts from this record refute the popu
lar claim that only trivial and useless messages are re
ceived through psychics. Dr. Bull's records abound in
serious and instructive matter, which, says J. H. H., must
be collected and arranged for a volume apart from the
cases themselves.
And now, a word for the obsessor. As Dr. Bull's atti
tude in this work is as selfless as that of his collaborators
of the Group, he will not resent my speaking of an inter
esting change which I have observed in him. When I
first began to take his records I occasionally felt troubled
because his sympathy for the patient, and his indignation
at the condition, sometimes led him to take, in dealing
with the entity, rather the attitude of a stern judge.
This attitude has completely changed to one of tender
{162}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
understanding and a deep longing to help a soul in tor
ment by showing him how to free himself from his spiritual
and mental blindness. I believe that he is as eager to do
this as he is to help the patient; and this is as it should be.
I think, too, that the work has progressed more rapidly
on account of it.
Several persons have told me that while they were in
sympathy with Dr. Bull's work, they failed to see why
we, on this plane, should feel any responsibility toward the
obsessor; that such a spirit ought to be cared for by those
in the spirit world. It is human to be illogical. Were I
to say, "Why then do you expect so much help from the
discarnate? Why look to any but the living for assist
ance?" They doubtless would reply that the living are
very busy and that presumably the spirit world is full of
leisure. I might argue that according to all we have
learned it seems to be a very busy world indeed. Use
less ! The idea of co-operation seems to have no appeal.
But here is something to be considered: —After many
years of personal experience and study, I am forced to the
conclusion that it is far from being an easy matter for the
more highly developed spirit to reach, and to make him
self understood by an earth-bound soul who is com
pletely immersed in sense-memories; —who frequently is
not even aware of having passed out of his own body.
According to all experience it seems to be most difficult,
unless—be it noted —approach be made through the
medium of another person who is still in the body;—
who still thinks in terms of the senses. Once contact
has been established through this third, or intermediary,
{163}
A GENERAL SURVEY OF PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA
and the obsessor becomes conscious of his real condition,
it is another matter. But his first awakening is more
possible to accomplish through the assistance of some
living person.
Why? I hesitate to use the term "vibrations," so
stamped as jargon of the platform; yet what word have
we by which to describe the ambience of the ego, incarnate
or discarnate? But is it not reasonable to suppose that
it would be difficult for one who has ceased to think in the
terms of the senses, to reach the apprehension of one who
thinks in no other terms? Let us call -it a question of
dimension.
As to our freedom from responsibility toward such en
tities as may be brought to our attention:—No one who
believes in survival, and who has studied this subject
deeply, can retain a complacent sense of separateness.
No longer can one say, with assurance, "This, or that, is
not my responsibility." Very strangely interwoven are
the threads of human existence of both worlds—which
are but one.
However close this contact may be, let no one imagine
that free, conscious intercourse between the incarnate
and discarnate is easily achieved. So natural and fluent
are the messages from the communicators of this Group,
and so confidently and surely do they proceed with the
work of healing, assisted by Dr. Bull, that one forgets to
marvel and is too apt to take for granted the apparent
ease with which all this is accomplished. Only when
some communicator refers to the years of thought and
concentrated effort which have gone toward making this
{164}
PSYCHIC HEALING AND OBSESSION
work possible; —the training of the medium;—the per
fecting of a method of communication;—the procedure
and details of technique involved in the healing;—is one
reminded of a passage written by F. W. H. M. many
years before he became a member of this devoted Group:—
"Not easily and carelessly do these spirits come to us,
but after strenuous preparation, and with difficult ful
filment of desire."
(165)
