{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__matthews___a_first_venture_into_spiritualism.pdf","mytitle":"A First Venture Into Spiritualism","mylang":"de"}
A First Venture Into
By
CHAS. MATTHEWS.
LONDON :
ARTHUR H. STOCKWELL, LTD.
29, LUDGATE HILL, E.C.4.
Printed and made in England b
J. F. Cook, Church Street, Rushdet.
and published by Messrs. A. h
Stockwell, Ltd., 29 Ludgate Hil
London, E.C.4. t*»a?
PREFACE.
T his short account is not intended to be an
attempt to deal with the question of the truth or
otherwise of Spiritualism, but is sent forth simply for
what it is. Namely, an absolutely true and reliable
account of a religious service held by Spiritualists,
which the writer attended, and at which he was
convinced beyond all question that, on that occasion
at any rate, contact was established, by means of a
genuine and reliable Medium, between the spirits of
people who had passed away and living persons
present in the Church.
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM.
CHAPTER I.
TH E LURE.
I make a most profound bow, and ask leave of you,
my lords, ladies and gentlemen, to present this
sketchy account of an adventurous experience I had
recently, hoping that my attempt may be received
with favour by some of the many thousands of per­
sons who are now being drawn to consider occult
subjects.
“ There go six of them ! ” ! exclaimed, as I trudged
through a zig-zag of streets one Sunday evening, and
heard a public clock ring out the hour. “ I shall be
in the first flight for this six-thirty service.”
I brought up at six-ten, to the tick, in front of the
building I had made my objective.
It was an edifice of dull red brick, that reared itself
before me ; many windowed, graceful in elevation
6 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
and contour, but planned on somewhat spare lines
for a building that called itself a church. It yielded
up to the public its name and gave the public its
greeting by a leviathan announcement, which, in
flaring capitals, stretched boldly across its wide,
soaring front. As plain as print, and impossible to
misunderstand, was the fact that this was a Spiritual­
ists’ Church, and that I had hit upon the right place.
As I stood stock-still, regarding with attentive
interest this home of the spirits, and appraising the
dignity it imparted to a not very superlative neigh­
bourhood, a strange irresolution seized me. I became
in two minds about going in, and I found myself
mumbling a sort of feeble, wavering monologue—
“ Shall I go in ? ___Shall I ” ___ Shan’t I ? ” It
came almost to a toss-up ; but at length I made for
the door, bounded inside, and, uncertain how far to
venture, tiptoed with doubtful steps towards the
nearest seat, upon which I sat me down to make the
best of the hard accommodation it afforded. In I
had come ! Well or ill, excusably or inexcusably,
the thing was done I
Few worshippers were present, for it was full early
OJ
Ld
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
7
yet, and, peopled by but just one or two, the interior
looked a little forlorn.
“¿What in the world was this radiant temple ?” I
queried, as soon as I was able to dispose myself in my
seatland stretch my legs. I took a good look at the
place. Where was I ? Not in the home of spirits ?
No, impossible I It had the usual lay-out, and looked
just an ordinary domain, sacred to religious exercises.
Ittwas headed and fronted by a platform ; it offered
the accommodation of seats ; it presented a coco-nut
matting right-of-way up the centre ; it was lighted
in the ordinary way : in short, it looked, for all the
world, the samelas any other place that made similar
pretensions, and there was nothing to arrest my
attention here that I had not seen dozens of times
before in what was, as this place was, half meeting-
room, half-church. It was nave, choir, transepts,
aisle, all in one. Chairs, seats, forms, Scripture
texts, umbrella stands, hat-racks, hanging-pegs for
coats, hymn-book repositories, and divers other
things proper to a church, environed me. Under­
stand, I do not say that this sanctum displayed the
opulent dimensions of a cathedral ; nor was it as
8 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
poky as a parlour ; but while it had no special per­
fections to boast of, I could not see that it had many
defects to deplore.
Sitting near the door, I was able to catch sight of
entrants as they straggled in and distributed them­
selves about the church. It soon began to receive
constant additions, and I watched people come and
come. Unversed, as I was, in their ways, and a prey to
many doubtings and misgivings, I screwed myself
round and round in my seat as one after another
arrived, and bold to the point of audacity, glanced
them up and down in an open stare. I was anxious
to note if they sported emblems, or carried decora­
tions, or had any insignia to mark them out from the
usual run of church-goers ; but no clue, not th(
faintest, rewarded my scrutiny.
This bygone event does not go back so far, doe
not recede so long into the past, but that I can
remember as though it were yesterday— for the
memory of it clings— how densely the worshippers
at last gathered themselves together, and what a
crush it was with as many as two hundred crammed
into the church. It looked almost as if the edifice
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
9
would burst its confines. Three persons sat either
side of me, which made it a tight fit, but I just
managed to pinch room.
The worshippers looked to me to be, for the most
part, people in easy circumstances, with a sprinkling
of the lower orders. I was a ‘ lower order *myself.
Women outnumbered men in the ratio of three to
two, and I thought there was an undue bias of old
age.
Presently I observed a figure hastening on to the
platform. It was the dapper figure of the general
utility man, who was taking a part, and yet not taking
a part, in the evening's proceedings. Could that
work be called a part that consisted in whipping off
the chintz cover, lightly flicking his duster and open­
ing the organ ? Because that is what he did, this
trusty church officer. But he did the duty well, and
I accord him a place as one who discharges a small
office properly.
IO
A FiRST VENTURE in t o
SPIPtt t’ AT T9»-
CHAPTER II.
ASTIR !
T hus a quarter of an hour went by. Somewhere
about six twenty-five, or five minutes in front of
actual starting-time, the meeting being duly and truly
assembled, there entered from an ante-room at the
head of the church, a lady who mounted the platform
and seated herself before the organ. She did a little
fidget on her stool, adjusted the stops of her instru­
ment, fluttered the leaves of a book in looking for
the piece she wanted, and then tried, with both hands,
to flatten a page that refused to be flattened, and to
make it stand before her just where apparently it did
not want to stand, and whence it came slipping off. By
and by she settled herself, and then, with a sudden
stiffening of the figure, she began an opening volun­
tary) appearing to be able to make her organ do just
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
ii
what she wished it to. It was a choice prelude
that shrilled from her instrument.
Soon afterwards, a murmur of concerted voices
fell upon the congregation, as a door opened at the
head of the church, and there emerged from an ante­
room someone who inspired me with the hope of my
seeing the scenes enacted that I had come purposely
to witness. It was the medium 1
She was arrayed with natty precision in a fetching
pink jumper and a well-defined hobble-skirt of light
brown. She looked quite a modish young lady, and
had, I should say, seen some five-and-twenty
summers.
Two squires attended her, the one a masterful man,
with “ Chairman ” written all over him, and the
other a gentlemanly enough figure, who, I was
informed, was the speaker. All three ascended a
short flight of stairs, strode lightly across the
platform, and slipped into three arm-chairs yawning
to receive them. There were no outward observances,
no spiritual armour, no stately panoply, no pomp, no
ostentation—'nothing. These three principals just
came in and sat down.
12 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
There they sat, in open order, facing this large
congregation, a perfect platform triad, ready to take
the meeting, if the meeting was ready to take them.
Thf chairman sat for an instant fingering a frag­
ment of paper— toying with it and screwing up his
eyes in order properly to scan its contents. I
assumed the paper to be that masterly piece of
precision known as the agenda— and, unless I erred,
the chairman, before he began, was going to refresh
himself with the cold water that sparkled in that
fat decanter with the narrow neck, reposing on the
table before him. Look at him 1I knew he would I
Reaching across the green baize, he gripped the
bottle by the neck and, tipping it to the pouring
angle, decanted the water with a clucking sound into
the tumbler. Having partly filled that container, he
then raised it to his lips, and tossed off the whole
allowance.
Presently, straightening himself, the chairman
arose and resting his left hand on the table, held in
his right hand the agenda, whence he derived the
invitation he extended to his hearers to please sing
the opening hymn— “Spirits bright are ever nigh.
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
13
The congregation turned to their hymn books.
Let me premise that the church was well dowered
with hymn books. Everyone had a book, and in an
instant everybody was as busy as could be, finding
the hymn, the simultaneous turning of leaves causing
a general flutter. For me, quite unversed in the
ritual of the church, this hymn book set out some
astounding particulars. It was wonderful to read
what it said about spirits. Won-der-ful I
But now the people hymned together, and refrained
together, and the church was filled with gleeful song
I lifting up my voice with others.
Then came the prayer, with more about spirits and
angels, during rapt silence and tense strain.
The supplication over, the chairman announced_
“ We will now sing Hymn 354, ‘ Spirits, come with
us to-day.' ”
I stood up with the rest and took my fill of this
hymn, a wayward son though I felt myself to be.
Then the Chairman again quizzed his agenda, to
see what it mapped out next j and that informing
document must have told him, for he left his chair
and hied him to the reading-desk, where reposed a
*4 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
Bible of striking immensity and large print. He
began turning over the leaves of that ennobling
volume, and continued to do so, until he lighted
upon the right place. What was it be read ? Let me
think— oh, I know ! He opened np that marvellous
story of the Resurrection, making it his care to give
the holy narrative the proper light and shade.
Scarcely need it be said of a people much given to
singing, that after that another hymn was tried—
“ I come, I come from my spirit-home.”
This was rendered as effectively as the two
previous numbers, by a congregation that seemed
able to bring out the full beauty of hymns.
The Speaker was now to get his turn. It was so
given out, and forth the Speaker came.
This “ Mr. Speaker ” had a fine presence and a
taking style.
It made me tremble a little at first, unused as I
was to such declarations, to know that “ We all had
the constant company of invisible beings, that were
soaring over us, hovering about us, all day and all
night long.” It was most upsetting to a novice in
such matters ; and I felt at first that the speaker did
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
*5
not, could not, mean that. MOnly fancy,” I said to
myself, “ this world being overrun with spirits. Yet
this downright person said it was I”
While I sat scornfully erect, preserving my most
stony demeanour, I noted that there were sitters to
right of me, sitters to left of me, and sitters in front
of me, who betrayed no surprise at the insistence
upon this ghostly companionship, but were, instead
gloriously content with it and looked their quiet
approval at what to me was the most exciting
deliverence I had ever listened to.
The speaker dwelt on our fleeting existence upon
“ this little o, the earth.” He showed-—this gentle­
man who was talking to us, did— how the plan of life
worked out to its natural fulfilment, when it ushered
us into a more glorious abode as soon as this world
knew us no more— the head and centre of our
spiritual being, our angelic home, which had been in
existence since the beginning of time.
u ‘ The victory and sting of death,
Its triumphs all are o’er ;
Let fear depart, we know the truth—
We live for evermore I’ ”
16 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
There we might still have to work and work, but
the labour we engaged in enriched us to an extent
that dwarfed all our previous experience of rewards
here on earth. Nay, more, we were not to be merely
persons at large, with our time our own. It was
indeed unlikely to the last degree that our trans­
formation was to be a happy release only. The
speaker begged us to accept his assurance that it was
to be something very different, because he knew full
well it was something very different. We should
reappear on this planet again and again, in spiritual
guise, he declared, to guide our friends, to be a
pledge to them of future reunion in the spirit world,
and to comfort and cheer them on their earthly
pilgrimage.
It was the gladdest kind of message.
I thought the address reached its highest level
of wisdom, when it was able to say, in good set
terms, and in language that went home, that we
should wake up in the next world and prepare for
the next life in exactly the state in which we
quitted this life. Instantly I pricked up my ears
— Eh ?
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
»7
“ Yes,” said the speaker, emphasising his point
by repetition, *
*rely upon it, as you are when
you achieve your earthly deliverance, so you will
be when you open a new life in your spiritual
home."
His hearers were then enjoined to do all that in
them lay here and now, to surrender themselves to
spirit influence, and to aim at that perfection which
can only be obtained by perpetual striving.
The speaker showed himself in deadly earnest, his
voice vibrating through the church, in emphasizing
one point in his message. You would not believe
how he stressed it. He endeavoured to work up his
hearers into a state of fiery enthusiasm for the cause
by enjoining them strictly to consider their ways. It
seemed as if his vocabulary hardly held words
strong enough to enforce the duty he laid upon
them to be rampantly active in this sure thing
that had been revealed to them of the after life,
so that others might share the blessed knowledge
that man never dies. When they had brought
others to see as they saw, when they had done their
utmost to strengthen the cause, then they might
i8 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
consider themselves to be good church members.
But not before)
But, there ; I must not be too “ preachy/' as I
have not this speaker's fluency to expend upon the
topic.
A FIRST VENTURE INTO M
SPIRITUALISM
CHAPTER III.
EN AVANT THE SPIRITS !
N ext followed that act of procedure, which not
for worlds would any church omit, namely, the effort
to reinforce the funds of an almost moneyless society.
It was a good collection. As the plate passed me I
saw it glittered with a rich vein of silver ; and the
two excellent wardens having gathered in the
church’s offering, then carried their welcome burden
up the centre aisle, and laid it carefully on the table.
We had now been favoured with singing, prayer,
speaking, Bible-reading, collecting— everything ! All
the regular beginnings had been accomplished, and
we were about to receive what the meeting was
billed to give, namely, spiritual visions; but no, I
was wrong. We must carry on songfully yet, for
what does the Chairman announce next, but one
more hymn— “ Soft and low, those angel voices ” I
I, who was a nobody at this service— just a looker-
on— I wondered at the subdued rendering of this
hymn, at the organ accompaniment on the soft pedal,
20 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
but most of all why the congregation sat while they
sang. I learnt afterwards that it was done “ in order
to silence every form of disquietude, to concentrate
thought, to get the right atmosphere for the clair­
voyance which was to follow.” Of course, of course !
These good people could tune their lays as they
listed, could honour the muses as fancy dictated or
occasion served, without any obtrusive comment
from me.
From this time forward the service rapidly ex­
panded and became redundaut with sensation— that
is to say, for me.
The soothing strains of “ Soft and low, those angel
voices” had hardly died away, when up rose the
Chairman and presented the Medium to us, asking
the congregation, with great solicitude, to extend
their utmost love, their tenderest sympathy, to her as
she described and interpreted her spiritual visions.
To the enhancement of the scene, I looked to the
place being at once darkened, as I had been assured
by gossips, over and over again, that it always was
darkened. Of course, these gossips had been saying
the sort of thing gossips will say. From now
A FIRST VENTURE INTO 21
SPIRITUALISM
onwards the church remained as resplendent and the
lights as accommodating as before.
It was not a baddish beginning at this part of the
service, to discover that the clairvoyante was a lady
of considerable refinement, possessed a voice of rich
tone, and joined to a natural gift of sympathy an
almost caressing manner.
At the outset she voiced the, to me, disturbing
disclosure that with us mortals, in that very edifice,
had come a large accession of spiritual beings—
legions of them. .
The two hundred votaries around me sat quietly
and composedly in their places, whereas I followed
the direction in which the Medium’s eyes prompted
me to look. “ Give me a sight of these things,” I
said softly to myself. “ I should dearly like to see
them.” I looked up to the ceiling, at the walls,
along the seats, at the platform, and where not, until
my gaze became a set stare ; but, sad to relate, I was
completely baffiled in the search— I dare say, for an
all-sufficient reason. Meanwhile, others of the con­
gregation did not stir. To them the Medium’s news
seemed like no news.
22 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
CHAPTER IV.
TREMBLING MOMBirto.
I w ould like to star the whole of this chapter, and
to italicise some of its passages— those depicting the
key movement in a weird scheme that I saw developed
that night of unfading memory.
The Medium fascinated me. Her plan was simple
as A B C— it was transparently simple. Having,
from her position of eminence, descried a spirit form,
she signalled with outstretched hand to the sitter
nearest the form, and then, having coupled them
together— the angelic and the human— she acted as
intermediary to both, describing to the sitter the
appearance of the celestial visitant, and conveying the
spirit message it brought.
I was thunderstruck I
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
23
I should have been a stone man had I (ailed to be
impressed by the wonderful penetralia I had come
bang upon, and the arresting disclosures that ensued.
I learnt that the contact thus brought about formed
part of every service, and that, neither as a means of
beguiling the time, nor for mere Sunday abstraction,
nor as a substitute for ritual pomp, nor for any such
pretext whatsoever ; but that the manifestation was
devised and carried out as one means of uniting the
destinies of the here and the hereafter.
Before I outline any revelation I saw, I want to
break it gently to the reader that there were no idle
stories, no silly outpourings, no drivel that could be
designated “ fortune-telling." To me the rite of
this church was the portrayal of one long scene “ for
the edification of those of the mundane plane— to
give them comfort in life, to guide their course, to
cheer, to help, to shed sunshine on the sorrowing, to
render the perfection of solicitous service." I am
echoing here a platform utterance of that night on
this unfailing theme.
It is difficult to put into words the intensity of the
longing I felt now— reconciled as I became to my
24 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
surrounding«— that, if any celestial one had come on
the wings of the wind. hold parley with me, the
Medium would picture it and disclose to my wonder­
ing self the nature of its errand. Well, that endear­
ing lady on the platform did eye me sitting back
there, at the far end of the church— as I feared, in
entire seclusion— did report that a shade was taking
shape beside me, and did proffer me both a descrip­
tion and a message. I was awed by the occurrence,
and felt that it made an addition to my understanding.
But more of this anon.
Perfect quiet reigned throughout the clairvoyance.
There was no necessity to enjoin silence, for never
were there more attentive auditors. Nothing broke
the stillness— not a whisper, not a shuffle of feet, not
a restless move, not the dropping of an umbrella or
stick, not even a cough. Yes, one male worshipper
was afflicted with a most distressing cough, but he
had learnt the art of coughing in church and coughed
only between the parts. This balmy state utterly
confounded the writer, who, knowing nothing of the
workings of a Spiritualist Church, had thought to find
‘he people, jointly and severally, in a condition of
A FIRST VENTURE INTO 25
SPIRITUALISM
misrule, and, as far as a Sunday congregation could
be wayward and wild, to be those things. But, bless
me, their behaviour was irreproachable.
The meeting being all attention, the fair demoiselle
in command beamed upon the congregation, and in
a confiding voice besought the love and sympathy the
chairman had already asked for. She stipulated that
the friends would bear with her, regarding the age of
the spirit form she described.
*
*Say ' yes ’ or ‘ no,’ when 1 ask if you recognise
the spirit I describe,” was another request preferred
to a congregation which, not over-particular on that
point, was, seemingly, given now and then to express
its yea or nay by a curt nod or a silent shake of the
head. If the reply was ‘ yes,’ people were now told,
they had to •out ’ with it ; if *no,’ well, *out ’ with
that, too.
We had really and truly started. At the first
selection of a subject for the description and message,
I should have faced about to see who was to undergo
the experience, but that I saw that others of the
congregation, with a fine sense of courtesy, were
refraining from paying any staring attention towards
1
26 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
the chosen one. Then, neither would I turn. No, I
would sit four-square with the rest, and not disturb
the formation by so much as a sidelong glance.
“ I notice there, in the centre of the church,” rang
out the Medium’s clear voice, accompanied by an
intent look and a shading of the eyes, verandah-wise,
by the left hand, “ a lady I am coming to first. That
lady at the end of the seat there,— You, I mean, with
a little red in your hat.— Excuse my being personal,”
added the Medium, with outstretched band and
indicative forefinger.
The sitter in question returned an appealing look
and held up a timid right hand interrogatively. She
was about to undergo what was apparently a coveted
experience, and wanted to be sure she was the one
being spoken to.
“ Yes, you,” confirmed the Medium, with a nod.
Then she begged the lady’s instant attention.
“ I see building up with you,” the speaker con­
tinued, developing her descriptive power as she went
on, “ the spirit-form of an old gentleman. He is
standing close to you, his right hand on your shoulder
and looking affectionately into your face.”
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
*7
This enigma of a woman, as I regarded the
Medium, went into a chain of particulars concerning
this spirit-form. She summed up the sequence of
events in his earthly career, and went on to give his
outward semblance, his varying qualities, and beyond,
and above all, his Christian name. She never flagged
or faltered; and 1 remember how readily she
particularised this man, the unerring character of her
description, and the perfectly connected story she
related of him.
The sitter recognised at once, with a start of
pleased surprise, that it was the spirit of her father.
She had exacted a promise from him before he went,
well nigh ten years ago, that he would endeavour to
reappear to her ; and now that he had made good
his promise she was out and out glad. Delight
overspread her features, the eyes shone, and her
overcharged feelings found vent in a glistening tear.
A brief confidence was exchanged between the
two, through the intermediary on the platform. Rest
assured that the message the father gave the daughter
was private and confidential— the Medium saw to
that. I gave a glance at the daughter, just sufficient
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
2C
CHAPTER V.
ENTER THE SOLDIER.
E stablished in this sanctuary, and eager to hear
of marvels so interesting, I followed with the closest
attention the Society's emissary in a further stretch
of her powers. A spirit-entity from the battle-field
was her next find. She brought him on, as she had
brought on the old boy in the previous episode, by
easy stages until he had completely shown himself as
he used to be—a dauntless soldier of the great war.
It was passing strange that this son of Mars should
be able to manifest himself fully accoutred. But
there he was, we were told, a soldier to the life— in
the style he affected, the kit he donned, and even the
swagger cane he switched about when on furlough.
30 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
There was no gainsaying that such a transformation
had been effected, somehow, and that this soldier
did it that he might be received as a trustworthy
chronicler, when he said he was what he was. For
the life of me, I could not understand it. But then a
mere narrator need not explain : he merely records
that it was so.
I looked intently at our intermediary and found
myself hanging upon her words as she featured this
young soldier whom, she averred, she saw in vision,
amplifying his appearance, and laying bare his lead­
ing characteristics in a delineation that was crystal
dear.
The spirit-form of this soldier had attached itself
to a sitter half-way back in the congregation— a man
between thirty and forty, who voiced a ready ‘ Yes,’
when asked if he knew he was being referred to.
The Medium added to her description, that “ she
heard the name of Tom coming to her, and believed
it to be the soldier’s name.”
The man could not credit at first that he had
heard aright. His face blanched as he listened,
letting her have her say out.
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
3i
“ Tom ? ” he then queried. “ Why, it must be
Tom Schuster ! I know him. He was in the
trenches with me."
“ Tom " seemed to have been one of those rankers
who had lived untrumpeted and died unsung. In
early days a farmer’s boy, he was the firstling of a
flock of nine little ones at home, who came into the
world at the rate of one per annum. Fighting in
France, he squared himself to face the enemy, and
went down to the murderous fire of their guns.
This ex-soldier in the congregation was fond of
Tom. It was 1
1Tom this ’’ and “ Tom that ” with
him.
“ Tom is right down glad," the Medium went on,
her talents in full play, " of something you did for
him and wants to thank you. He is holding up
before me pen and paper. I don’t know what he
means."
But the man was able to translate the meaning of it
" Oh, yes," he returned, with an understanding
nod, as the idea took shape and found utterance. *
*I
know. I wrote home to Tom’s people, and told them
how he died."
3* A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
“ It does you credit,” observed the Medium, her
features brightening. “ Tom is so glad. I can hear
him saying now, how pleased he is to have been able
to thank old JIM for writing home.”
The sitter made a laughing remark in reply, and
his face took on a look of quiet content.
Then our accredited emissary, who was invoking
these spectral appearances, contacted a spirit-form to
a lady well to the front in the congregation, who
failed to identify the vi^tant. The Medium hazarded
some suggestions to the lady, asking her, for instance,
if she knew all the relations on her mother’s side,
and whether there was a maternal uncle who sailed
the seas, and whose vital spark made its exit years
and years ago. It was quite a little catechism. The
sitter tried to invoke memory by smoothing down
her features with her right hand, but at length she
shook her head ruefully, and seemed unable to help
to the extent of one word.
Steadfastly the Medium tried to make headway
against this set-back, taking a fresh grip of the sub­
ject, and then another ; but all was in vain, hard as
she tried ; and though she left no means untried, and
A FIRST VENTURE INTO 33
SPIRITUALISM
exhausted all possible conjectures, due there was
none.
If the truth must be told— as it must and ought to
be— I thought this a right-down, complete failure.
At length the Medium decided to pass on. Before
doing so, however, she entreated the subject of her
remarks to try and recollect the description she had
received and to cause enquiries to be made later,
when she would answer for it either that the departed
one would be known by somebody in her household,
or that little by little she might herself come to
recollect what uncle it was whose spirit-form stood
beside her.
But this did not finish it. Oh, n o; it was only
half of what happened. The Medium suddenly dis­
covered a saving-clause.
« Wait a moment,” she rapped out. “ This uncle
gives me a message for you.”
The spirit-form then opened up to the Medium
that his niece now present was a prey to much
uneasiness, because of sickness in the family. Her
husband had been under a doctor for some time, for
lung trouble, which would hasten his departure
34 A FIRSTrVENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
hence, unless those about him were extremely care*
fu). Sh# WM advised what measures to take, and
then it was foretold that the attack would pass ; and
she was encouraged to be of good cheer.
“ Thank God I” fervently exclaimed the wife.
She had not meant to say that; it just said itself.
Silly do you call it of her? Do not be horrid.
Recollect it was news for which this poor woman
had been waiting for days and weeks and months ;
and she only voiced her thanks that deliverance was
about to come.
Be it set down that Revelation No. 4, in the
parlance of the day, gave a great spiritual uplift.
A matronly old soul from the spirit-world, who so
please you, had been haunting the church since the
start of the service, was now intent upon communi­
cating with a young man five seats from the front, at
whose side she stood wistfully waiting, her motherly
feelings worked up to the utmost. Our clairvoyante
singled out the dear old lady, and passed the word
for her to the brave boy at her side.
She had stood there, upon the identical spot, for
an hour by the clock, regarding with moistened eyes
A FIRST VENTURE INTO 35
SPIRITUALISM
her darling boy, feeling unutterable tenderness for
him, looking him up and down, wanting particularly
to have a quiet talk with him— just those two— and
wishing she could give him a good hug and a smack
of a kiss by way of beginning.
The message conveyed by the Medium from
mother to son does not concern us here one little
bit, any more than the soft persuasions that accom­
panied it. But I thought it was like the mother to
say what she did, and I regarded her boy as of the
true descent. He visibly brightened after this inter­
view with his mother, and a flush of exhilaration
overspread his features, as though sorrow had been
suddenly transmuted into joy.
36 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
CHAPTER VI.
MY TURN COMES.
The next manifestation was one that honoured me.
I half hoped and half feared I should be invited to
enter the charmed circle, and may I say that mine
was one of the Medium’s best showings ?
She apprised me that standing a foot or two away
from where I sat was the spirit-form of a whiskered
old man. She pictured him as partly bald, with
curly hair round the sides of the head, shortish,
tubby in build, grey-blue eyes, straight nose, firm
mouth, and about seventy years of age. He gave the
name of Henry.
By Jove I she was word for word right, name and
all 1 It was such a correct presentiment, that, in one
swift instant, and with an excess of boyishness that
welled up within me, I muttered to myself and almost
called out, “ It’s Dad, for a sovereign I” and had this
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
37
revelation been made to me in the open, instead of
within a church interior, I should, undoubtedly, have
given a shout as a vent for my exuberant feelings.
4
4Is it your father,1' asked the Medium briefly. I
strove to outdo her in brevity, and answered, “ Yes.”
That sire of mine said his good-byes to this orb,
way back in the eighties, leaving me to trace him in
his line and carry on the family consequence.
The Medium drew him out, and he did me a world
of good by his coming.
It was a message for which I would like to have
returned the Medium my most profound thanks.
The onus of expression was on me, and 1 hope she
saw it in my eye.
Our amazing Medium, never once flagging from
the start, was now in great force, and going it like a
good one.
In the midst of a deep bush, she lighted upon a
lady seated in front, for whose benefit she not only
delineated a spirit-friend, but uttered an oracular
prediction.
The visitant from the other world had settled itself
near a lady upon whom sorrow plainly hung its sign,
3» A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
for she was consumed with grief over a recent
personal loss, and badly wanted comforting. The
Medium, whose interposition was happily timed,
came to the distressed one, and, reading her like a
book, revealed some of the heart-break she had
undergone since the chastening hand had been on
her.
The mourning one took in good part the urgings
of the Medium not to let grief prey upon her, when
there was the sure knowledge that her son Harry, of
whom she had been bereft, was not only alive, but
was living an intensified and more glorious life
among the arisen.
Stretching out entreating hands she besought the
sorrowing mother to accept the assurance that her
boy, in spirit-form, stood at that moment beside her,
with his hand upon her shoulder, and that he was
looking into her face with a whole wealth of love.
“ He features in your life often,” the Medium went
on, in words no less gracious than they were
admonitory. “ I know it is difficult for you to
believe this, for you are new to our movement j but
though difficult, it should not be impossible. Come
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
39
now, cheer up, and be brave I He whose absence
you mourn— I won’t say whose death, for there are
no dead— devoutly hopes, by every tie of family
affection, that you won’t go on sorrowing because he
is no longer with you. He is insistent upon it, and
says you must dismiss all frets and worries. It is no
good else. Your boy tries to rally you. ‘ Don't
mope,’ he reproves ; and it is an imperative ' Don’t,’
too.”
. The mother, reflecting how greatly she had erred
in supposing the future loomed so darkly before her,
said contritely she would try not to.
“ I won’t weep any more,” she exclaimed in
broken accents, and with an accordant shake of the
head. *
“ I hope, to heaven, you won’t,” came the rejoinder
from the platform.
In this way the mother was consoled, her load
lightened, and her outlook on life made more hope­
ful, invested as it was with a new interest.
This mother’s attention was further arrested by
what followed. The clairvoyante paused to lend
impressive point to a message to deliver from Harry.
4o A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
It did— indeed, it did— make the mother happy, this
message. She had indulged in some repining» about
her material prospects after the loss of one who had
been her stand-by ; but she was no longer beset by
fear for the future, when she learnt from her son,
that, greatly to her astonishment, he was always
proffering help, that any and every bar to her peace
of mind would shortly be removed, and that she
would be amply provided for. He would, in fact,
see her righted every way. Charged with this
message she became another woman, and an air of
resignation and peace rested blessedly upon her.
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
4‘
CHAPTER VII.
CHAIRMAN TO THE FORE.
T h en it befell that the Medium visualised a spirit­
form that sought to be identified with no other than
the Chairman. I did not think the platform would
be counted in, much less the ruler on the platform ;
but there I was wrong. Everybody was counted in,
the Chairman with the rest. Well, the Chairman
came into view ; and he looked at the Medium, and
looked again, stirring uneasily in his chair, like one
suffering discomfiture.
The blank look which the Chairman gave the
Medium, when she started on him, was, however,
not due to his objecting to receive her message. I
discovered afterwards that he considered a message
the very best conceivable thing for him, for he
wanted something predicted, and wanted it very
particularly. But while a message would be of
4* A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
Inestimable benefit to him, he did not desire to
appropriate to himself the solace and comfort of
which others, he felt, stood more urgently in need—
and by “ others,” he had in mind those who were
actually waiting for, and who would be disappointed,
if they did not get such help— for he, while desiring
a message, did not mind whether he heard from the
spirit-world just then, or not.
Our platform guide stood no way in awe of his
worship the Chairman. She was cool and collected.
“ I see with you,” went on this splendid damsel,
bringing her power to bear upon him, and speaking
in her clear, level voice.
“ I see building up there, on your left, the spirit­
form of an oldish gentleman, who passed over, I
should say, at least twenty years ago. He shows
himself clearly. I feel the tie of relationship, and I
should say this man was your father. I get a fatherly
influence with him. He was seventy-five or perhaps
eighty years of age when his spirit took its flight.
“ Tall and upright of figure, though a little rounded
in the shoulders, silvery white hair, a well-shaped
forehead, regular features, blue-grey eyes, straight
A FIRST VENTURE INTO *
SPIRITUALISM
43
nose, firm mouth and determined chin— his contour
and features bespeak him a person of some distinc­
tion. .
• “ By right of his position, he stood among the
captains of commerce ; he was accustomed to have
his own way, was rather a strong disciplinarian, and
a man of the world. He knew what he wanted and
how to get it— a successful man of business, I take
it, who secured a competence and retired into private
life before age enfeebled him.
“ Up to this moment, he has had a formative
influence in your life.
“ I hear the name Richard. I am not sure whether
it is his name or the name of somebody in the flesh.
Richard— yes, Richard ! He repeats the name to
emphasise it.”
Thus spake the Medium.
“ That’s right,” confirmed the Chairman ; and
with a catch in his voice, he made the avowal that
Richard was his father’s name.
To this the Medium replied, “ I thought so. See,
your father is rubbing his hands in glee, to think he
is recognised.”
44 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
Then the Medium did the hoped-for thing. She
outlined the Chairman's ambitions and laid bare his
story.
*' A fine prospect stretches before you,” she pre­
dicted. “ Your father tells me that you are aiming at
something, and that the determination to achieve it
has been a mastering purpose with you. Your claim
is as wellassured as mortal claim can be, and your
father fights your battles right fatherly ; and though
doubts assail you at times and difficulties encompass
you about, he asks me to say he is with you then,
smoothing your ruffled feelings and pointing you the
way onward to the success you desire and deserve.
“ He outlines your future. Don’t give up, he
urges, for he is giving you the power to form a coher­
ent plan, and the dash to carry it out. You will
know how to acquit yourself— make no mistake about
that."
“ Well said I” I thought.
Then our platform divinity, gazing about her, took
compassion upon an aged man over there, in the
comer— a dingy, penniless old fellow, who sat
huddled up to himself, in an idle and nameless con-
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
45
dition. This woebegone figure stumped about the
world with one wooden leg, and, cumbered with
many cares, was, unless appearances belied him,
subject to galling trials.
Members of the congregation brought themselves
to attention for this unfolding, which was one of
throbbing interest; and I was animated to an equal
pitch with the others. The old gentleman rather
fancied himself, I thought, thus to be brought into
notice. It gave him consequence.
He was a sufferer from internal trouble, and the
Medium, through the promptings of a medico in the
spirit-world, opened up a situation for him that was
rich in possibilities for his gradual, but complete,
recovery. She counselled him to take heed at once,
adding, more darkly, that unless he did the worst
would happen. By rights, he ought to have been
under a doctor before this.
I do not want the reader to pore over the details
of the decoction our friend was to take. It did him
no end of good to hear about it. It made quite a
catalogue for a person of his pitifully small means,
but still we all hoped he would have sufficient over-
46 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
plus of cash to stock himself as directed, and use it
as he had been told to do.
ThenIout came another piece of information for
the old boy, and that, too, information that he had
pined for ; and that was about his son, who was
killed in the war, and from whom he did so want
to get a message.
The Medium fulfilled her dual embassy most fully
regarding this son, to the manifest delight of his
waiting father ; and besides that— mystery upon
mystery— she gladdened him with news of wife,
mother, father, Uncle Tom, Cousin Dick, Aunt Jane,
and all his kin.
The old one was right-down glad.
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
47
CHAPTER VIII.
A VAIN QUEST.
I cannot forego mentioning here the next episode
which forced itself upon our notice, namely, that of
a stray spirit that, in a detached way, had, wonderful
to relate, wandered into the meeting, on the off
chance of being recognised. Believe me, there he
was— or there he was alleged to be : and he came
not once only ; he came and came again.
“ I see walking up and down the centre of the
church,” quoth our guide, “ now looking into one
row of seats, and now into another, the spirit-form
of an old gentleman, who, apparently in a state of
great agitation, is searching for someone whom he
knew before he went to his reward.”
48 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
The Medium then told us his age, appearance,
manner, dress—everything ! There was, however,
no clue to the wanted one ; and the spirit did not
bring word as to who he was or state definitely the
object of his visit. 1 learnt it was not the Erst time
he had been there— nor the second, nor the third ;
but always the looked-for subject had remained
unfound.
At length, the last hope having left him, he was
off again. The way in was the way out.
Expanding her power of vision and portrayal, the
Medium next contacted with a boy. He was a young
hopeful of about twelve years of age, and the heir
apparent of the house of one Samuel Martin. A
spirit-form had put an arm around the youngster’s
neck in a fondling manner, and, with its free hand
holding up his chin, was looking with deep affection
into his face.
The Medium’s talk was meant for and was seized
by the lad’s mother, by whom he had been brought
there.
Who should the spirit-form be but a one-time
Uncle John, the women’s erstwhile brother— a
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
49
bachelor who was fond of his young nephew, and
thought worlds of him. Morning, noon and night
it was 11Tom” with him— always “ Tom.”
“ Well ” the Medium remarked, “ this uncle is
anxious about Tom— his name is Tom, isn’t it ?" she
ventured.
The mother answered that Tom was his name.
“ This Uncle John, then,” resumed the Medium,
“ refers to a malady that has tinged the boy’s whole
life. He commissions me to say that the greatest
care will have to be taken of Tom if he is to grow
into a strong man. Keep him warm, see that he gets
medical attention, and, above all, be sure he has
nourishing food. Although Tom does not look over
strong, the uncle asks me to assure you that it will
come alright”
That was good bearing. The Medium pleaded
with the mother not to neglect this advice from the
spheres, beseeching her to give good heed to her
son’s health.
The mother nodded her assent, and smiled her
thanks. And she was no longer the dejected Mrs.
Martin that had entered the church an hour before :
5°
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
but apparently another woman altogether, such was
the change wrought in her.
It seemed a nice question with the Medium where
to go tor her next subject, for her gaze circled the
crowded congregation. Then, suddenly, her hand
shot out to the full stretch in order to indicate a
working-man of middle age, w'hose attention she
craved for a few minutes— only a very few minutes.
From one of the furthermost seats in the church, this
working-man became apparent, as, with expectation
in his every feature, he signalled back a reply with
upraised hand.
Subject to the differing conditions applicable to
his case, the Medium, with the same happy look on her
face, the same cheery smile, and the same charm of
manner, told him the same as she had told the others.
But, somehow, she did not get him right. It was
an enigma to the man, whose spirit-form it was she
had brought within her focus. Inside one minute he
had decided he could not recall such a one.
“ Never mind,” the Medium nodded. “ It may be
a guide you have, or a sometime friend whom you
have forgotten.”
A FIRST VENTURE INTO 51
SPIRITUALISM
Then it came out that the recognition of the spirit
was of less importance than the message it brought ;
and our sibyl told her subject all there was to tell of
a scheme he was dead-set on. The sum of her
information was that he must not be so madly eager ;
that now was not the accepted time for his plan ;
that he must discipline himself for a longer wait ;
and that by doing so he would better his circum­
stances and secure ultimate triumph.
These cheery words warmed and expanded him.
My word, yes 1
Behold, next, a description given to a young man,
to which he could not help attending, since it forced
itself so plainly on his notice.
The lady did not envisage any spirit-form in this
case ; and what was the young man’s astonishment,
and what was mine, to hear from her that over his
head, whirling in circlets, were numbers of small
anchors of pure gold, surmounted by a crown of the
same precious metal.
It was no bad symbol either, as she discoursed
about it, for the anchors were the anchors of hope
and the crown was the crown of achievement ; and
52 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
the message gave the young man an assurance of
success for a personal venture of his, after it had
undergone some improving changes.
“ Mark my words,” said the Medium, “ you will
achieve what you are aiming at, in good time.”
The young man openly voiced his thanks.
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
53
CHAPTER IX.
ONE ANOTHER.
To come to the next reading that challenged
attention.
The Medium evoked now a spectral figure, which
she contacted with a lady seated in the middle of the
church. Several minutes went by while particulars
were unfolded of this figure—appearance, height,
manners in earth-life, the dress he wore before his
transition, the manner of his passing out, some
incidents in his career, and I don’t know what all.
It was such an “ unfolding,'1 that the sitter recog­
nised the shade at once as that of her departed
brother, whom tuberculosis had carried off ten years
ago and more.
54 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
From impressions conveyed from this brother, the
lady was entreated to be less sympathetic.
” In these days,” went on the Medium, “ when we
are so full of ourselves, to the exclusion of the rest of
mankind, it is well that we should cultivate the gift
of sympathy. Others require and deserve our
assistance. But that isn’t to say, we should take on
all the troubles and bear all the burdens of our
friends and our friends’ friends. We must learn to
live our own lives. You must look to it,” remarked
her ladyship of the platform, reprovingly, to her
ladyship seated below, “ that all these people’s affairs
are not made your personal concern. Your brother
asks me to give you a good scolding for being so
remiss in this particular. He charges you, as you
value your health, at all hazards to try and wean
yourself from this propensity. In earth-life, he says,
you never crossed him. Do not cross him now by
letting his caution go unheeded.”
The lady took the advice in good part, and replied
with some easy remark which I failed to catch. I
hope it was that she would begin to reform.
Our next visitor from the beyond was no visitor at
A F IR ST V E N T U R E INTO
SPIR ITU A LISM
55
all— which is paradoxical. W ell it was a visitor and
yet it was not, if you can make that out. In other
words it was a vision not fully revealed— that is only
a part of a vision.
I fancied at first that this sight did not come
within the ordinary routine ; yet here it was— a
spirit-hand 1
The Medium claimed the hand as belonging to a
spirit. The hand was poised in mid-air over the
head of a lady, and was located by the Medium.
Nobody appeared to think the vision of particular
consequence— perhaps judging from some former
experience of the symbol. '
I do not want to specify the phenomenon with
greater precision than anything else in this weird
code. A hand is a hand.
The lady sitting beneath this abbreviated shade,-
with five digits, was told that it symbolised a desire
to help her in some change she contemplated.
“ I am asked to tell you,” observed the Medium,
“ that you must halt, and that if you will only wait
three months longer as you are, your plan will be
quite successful. Delay is sometimes a good
56 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
corrective. You stand by for the present. It is
known that you will chafe at this inaction, but it must
be endured.”
I ftifbed in acquiescence over the next disclosure.
A working-woman had apparenly paid a stolen
visit to the church, goodness only knows at what
sacrifice, in order to seize upon some guiding inform­
ation, if she could only get it from a spiritual
source, as to whether she would be able, and, if so,
how soon, to free herself from home conditions
which were sapping her life.
The Medium sensed her state, and knew how
sorely she was smitten.
“ You are an unfortunate woman,” came the com­
ment from the platform ; “ that’s what you are.”
“ I have done everything I could to smooth things
at home. Truly I have,” faltered the woman in a
piteous way.
“ I know you have,” confirmed the Medium, “ and
I don’t much like the look of things with you. You
deserve to be rewarded for all your struggles, instead
of being reduced to this pass. I ask you to believe
that ours is an exacting world, in which we have
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
57
sometimes to work without so much as a thank-you
by way of recompense."
The sitter assented with a monosyllabic *
*Yes."
Heedless of the interruption, the Medium pro­
ceeded.
“ I cannot promise you that your trials are over,
but, rely upon it, they cannot last always. There
must come an end to this constant friction, and I
hope that one day you will be once more the woman
your friends knew you to be. Meanwhile, I am
asked by my guides, and by the spirits I see in your
vicinity, to advise you to try not to be betrayed into
reprisals, however you may be provoked.”
It took but five minutes— only a little five minutes
— to convey to this poor stricken woman the comfort
and the guidance that were destined to be her stay
for years. She looked round after receiving her
message, as if exhorting the company to witness that
she was no longer downhearted.
Then the Medium took observation of another sitter
— an oldish man. I wondered she could espy him
because he had disposed himself in a deep comer on
the very confines of the crowd. But find him she did.
58 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
The reader will pardon me, if I do not allude in
detail to the two spirit-entities which were indicated
as being with this old gentleman ; but I fear to try
the reader too severely by constant repetition of the
tame procedure. Suffice it to say that the Medium
made a glorious attestation of these two spirit-pres­
ences, and two minutes ticked by while she was un­
folding to the sitter the striking scene they presented.
The really important part of the manifestation was
that it voiced a warning.
The man had fallen down at home and hurt his
left knee, from the effects of which he was still
suffering, and he was warned that unless he saw to
the fastening of a loose stair-rod there would be a
second accident.
* »
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
CHAPTER X.
A WELCOME UTTERANCE.
W e soon heard all there was to tell of the spirits
that next showed themselves. It appeared that a
company of angelic ones had settled near a gentleman
four seats from the platform. Learning that he was
s» so companioned, the recipient-to-be straightened
himself, and became hot and anxious for what was
to follow. But very little followed.
The Medium explained that these visitants were in
their spirit-robes ; that they had descended from the
higher spheres ; and that she only visioned them in
misty outline, that made it difficult to say who and
what they were.
But we could all be sure, if we accepted what was
told us, that the spirits were within the edifice, just
p where she said they were, hovering about this
individual member of the congregation.
We knew that much.
t
6o A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
Then it turned out that though these holy messen­
gers had no story to lay open, they were not to be
regarded as of inferior significance, or slighted, or
affronted on that account, since there was a purpose
in their visit, as we were promptly to learn from the
lady who was interpreting for us the lovely spectacle
they presented.
Through this manifestation, the subject of it, an
ardent disciple, had the unspeakable bliss of bearing
that, by sitting regularly in a circle, he could exercise
the gift of clairvoyance, that the platform would one
day be glad of his services, and— highest and best of
all— that his accomplishments included the wonderful
power of healing.
It rejoiced our friend to discover this hitherto
hidden knowledge. He exclaimed gleefully that he
would try and cultivate his power for the church's
sake, for his own sake, for everybody's sake ; and his
features beamed with the prospect of being able to
league himself with his fellows in a capacity that
would permit him to meet their rightful needs and
satisfy their allowable desires.
The next subject ;that came under notice, had,
A FIRST VENTURE INTO 61
SPIRITUALISM
seemingly, endangered his peace of mind, by
encouraging a dread that at times possessed him of
coming poverty and sickness. But, presto 1every­
thing was transformed when our intermediary on the
voi ds inspired by his and her spirit guides.
“ Put away that old horror,” she flashed out at him,
her eyes twinkling with amusement. “ It is a very
scant instalment you will be called upon to bear
either of want or illness. I can assure you, my
friend, in the most positive terms, of quite the
contrary. You will always have a sufficiency of
means, and bad health will never be your destined
lot. For heaven’s sake, don't confuse and darken
your life by such dread.”
The man at once brightened.
And so the manifestations went on. I have not
set down half of the events that occurred, and the
question is, can I say ditto for the rest, and tabulate
what there is left to say in a general schedule ?
Members of the congregation attested their close
interest in the episodes that followed. Down to the
last detail and the final word, there sat these
6a . A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
expectants as one revelation was made, and then
another, and then again, another.
The Medium directed her gaze now here, now
there, spreading her efforts all over the meeting, and
bringing together the spirit-form and the sitter for
the advantage of both. Everything she did seemed
to tell. She looked to possess foreknowledge from
another sphere, and as she received, so she gave ;
and the audience, with every sense taut, sat listening
to her as she went on with subject after subject for
too many times to count. Personally I was surprised
at her— upon my word, I was ; for it was work that
must have tasked her utmost powers.
At length the appointed end was reached, and she
dropped into her seat, I fear, exhausted and over­
wrought.
A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
63
CHAPTER XI.
FINIS.
I w ould not say I was tired of the phenomena,
but what I had seen sufficed for one night. It was
about enough. It had been an undeniable demon­
station of spirit agency ; and there is no experience
to equal it, if you ask me. I regard it as a classic,
pioneered by such a Medium as I had sat under that
night.
The closing hymn, “ The day Thou gavest, Lord,
is ended,” was followed by a final invocation.
To the pleasant sound of a voluntary on the organ,
the liberated throng began to make dispositions for
departure, and presently the whole congregation
moved outwards, trailing along the aisles, and out via
the main exit and lobby. Out they all trooped, and
it was as if Mother Church had scattered her
children by one executive swish. • -
As I joined the moving file in its retreat, I glanced
at the faces of these people, and doing so, I could
not help noticing that, unless appearances belied
64 A FIRST VENTURE INTO
SPIRITUALISM
them, they were spiritually refreshed.
Outside they shook hands— everybody with every­
body— good-nights were s<drt, and a general dispersal
took d)0“''
Sitting by the fire that night until ever so much
o’clock, unwilling to seek the Land of Nod and
fold myself to rest, I ruminated on what it all
meant— that which I had seen; and I kept asking
and asking myself the question, without being able
to supply myself with a satisfactory reply.
However, I had not done with these people for
good, for I would court their company again in church.
Yes, on peril of my salvation, I would pray as they
prayed, sing as they sang, and do everything that
seemed proper to beget in me this new faith ; and if
I could only number myself among the believers I
would produce at the proper time, in the proper
place, and to the proper people, a full, true, and
particular account of my conversion to this pictured
and revealing gospel.
THE END.
