{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__mccowan___love_and_life.pdf","mytitle":"Love And Life","mylang":"de"}
Love and Life
Sex Urge and Its
Consequences
By
Don Cabot McCowan, M. D.
CHICAGO
PASCAL COVICI, Publisher
MCMXXVIII
Co py rig h t, 1928, by
P ascal Covici, Publisher, I n c.
MANUFACTURED IN THE U. S. A.
LOVE AND
LIFE
Horace Mown declared that <
(the spend­
thrift of health was the guiltiest of
spendthrifts” and he went on to say: “I
am certain that 1 could have performed
twice the labor, both better and with
greater ease to myself, had I known as
much of the laws of life and health at
twenty-one as I do now. In college I was
taught all about the motions of the planets
as carefully as though they would have
been in danger of getting off the track if
I had not known how to trace their orbits,
but about my own organization, and the
conditions indispensable to the healthful
functions of my body, I was left in pro­
found ignorance. Nothing could be more
preposterous; I ought to have begun at
home, and taken the stars when it should
have become their turn.”
P r e f a c e
T
JL here have been three classes of books written
relative to the sex question. The first class treats
the subject in a light and popular vein, appealing to
morbid curiosity, and with little respect for accurate,
scientific knowledge j the second class is strictly
scientific with technical language and detail, uninter­
esting and difficult to be understood by the ordinary
reader j the third class is so voluminous, filled with
such a mass of references, quotations and sidelights
from every authority under the sun, including those
of antiquity down to date, that the ordinary readers
become exhausted and satiated with the subject long
before they have perused the various volumes.
In writing on this subject, I have endeavored to
give accurate knowledge, made plain and easily un­
derstood, by almost every reader. I hope that I
shall be able to furnish those who desire the truth
on this subject just that knowledge which they
crave, for their own good and the benefit of their
fellow-man. I do not make any apologies for the
vii
LOVE AND LIFE
technical terms essential to use in writing about a
subject of such intimacy and delicacy. There is a
glossary in the back of the book which gives the
definitions of some of the words that might be un •
familiar to the reader.
It has been necessary to use plain language in
order to make the subject clear and I believe I have
given the information in a manner that cannot be
offensive to anyone. I also hope that the informa­
tion contained in this book will be appreciated
for its accuracy and real helpfulness in solving
many of the problems that come up every day in
the lives of all. Many of the subjects are discussed
very briefly, that could have been elaborated upon
with facts, figures, copious quotations and sidelights
from authorities to prove the statements, but for the
purpose of brevity, such references have been
omitted to save the reader’s time and patience. If
the reader should desire to go more deeply into
any of the subjects connected with this theme, he
will find ample references to different authors in the
following pages.
There is no doubt that we have, in this age, a
universal demand for knowledge concerning the sex
urge and subjects intimately related. The sex urge
is a primary instinct that forms the foundation for
the propagation of the race. Ignorance or innocence
viii
PREFACE
concerning a subject so important to the welfare of
the human family is no excuse for the misuse or
abuse of this useful function. When one thinks of
the sexual diseases, social conditions, unsuccessful
marriages, deficient offspring, abnormal sexual prac­
tices, and the difficulties encountered in solving the
problem of normal sex expression, ignorance on this
subject cannot be too strongly condemned. If we
strip the sentimentality, false modesty, mystery and
the socially prevailing ideas from the subject, and
discuss it in an open, outspoken, straightforward
manner, on the basis of pathological, physiological,
psychological and anatomical facts, we shall arrive
at conclusions that will make for the happiness, suc­
cess and betterment of the race. It is only after
extensive study, years of observation and actual
practice as a physician, that I undertake to send this
book on its mission of enlightenment.
DON CABOT MC COWAN, M. D.
IX
r
C o n t e n t s
P R E F A C E ..........................................................vii
T H E SEX URGE. A COMPARATIVE
REVIEW .................................................... 17
Sex Obsession in America; Primitive Man and His
Mate; Property Rights Established; Woman’s In­
fluence in the Past; Historical References to the Sex
Urge; Lack of Sexual Knowledge; Animal Life
Compared to Human; Sex Question of Today; De­
velopment of the Finer Sentiments Connected With
Sex; False Modesty and Open-Mindedness.
SEX PROBLEMS OF OUR DAY . . . 22
Sexual Problems of Today; Slavery; Prostitution;
Venereal Diseases; Polygamy; Economics; Compe­
tition of Women; Eugenics; Living Conditions;
Social Classes; Frigidity and Impotence; Marriage
and Divorce; Sexual Perverts and Mentally Deficient.
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE . . . . 27
Monogamic Marriage; Object^ of Marriage; Love
Versus Law in Marriage; Fiction and Love; Cause
of Divorce; Count Leo Tolstoy on Love; Mencken
on Marriage; History of Marriage; Woman’s Status
in Different Countries; Prostitution in Marriage;
Equal Rights and Economic Independence of
Women; Woman’s Object in Marriage; The Family
As the Basis of a Nation; The State’s Interest in
Marriage; Laws Governing Alimony; Alimony Ad­
venturesses; Deceit and Unlawful Practices in Di­
vorces; The Economic Question; Marriage as an
Institution; Those Unfitted for Marriage; Divorce
Lawyers’ Fees and Settlements; Multiplicity of Di­
vorce Laws.
XI
LOVE AND LIFE
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY . . . 37
Analogy of the Male and Female Sexual Organs;
Description of the Female and Male Sexual Organs;
Functions of the Female and Male Sexual Organs;
Cuts showing the Internal and External Genitalia;
Route of the Spermatozoa to Reach the Ova; Men­
struation; Relation of Ovulation to Impregnation;
Description of Spermatozoa and Ova; Methods of
Producing Sterility; Aristotle on Generation; False
Ideas Corrected.
M ENSTRUATION AND T H E M ENO­
PAUSE ......................................................... 55
The Function of Menstruation; Signs of Puberty;
What Regulates Menstruation; WhatActuallyOccurs
at Menstruation; Impregnation in Relation to Men­
struation; Factors That Interfere With Menstrua­
tion ; Instructions to Girls Concerning the Menstrual
Periods; Sexual Influence on Menstruation; Time
of Menopause; Abnormal and Normal Results of
Menopause.
SEX DETERM INATION . . . . . 61
Theories as to Cause of Sex; The Study of Twins;
The Cell as the Basis of Life; Effect of the Number
of Chromosomes in Lower Forms of Life on Sex;
The Number of Chromosomes in the Ovum and
Spermatozoon; What Really Determines Sex; Ex­
tensive Experiments as Proof of What Determines
Sex.
BIRTH CONTROI............................................ 69
Birth Control Defined; Laws Governing Birth Con­
trol ; Birth Control of Lower Animals; Necessity of
Birth Control; Birth Control Compared to Abortion;
Need for Contraceptives; Religious Influence on
Birth Control; Birth Control and Race Suicide; Birth
Control in Relation to Eugenics; Economic Influence
on Birth Control; Theological Antagonism to Birth
Control; Common Methods of Birth Control; Inter­
ference With the Laws of Nature; Demands of Mod­
ern Women; Judge Ben Lindsey on Companionate
Marriage; State Laws Relative to Propagation;
Birth Control a Problem of Modern Civilization.
xii
CONTENTS
COITUS I N T E R R U P T U S ....................... 75
Reasons for Practicing Coitus Interruptus; Promo­
tion of Love and Virility; Harmful Effects; Impos­
sibility of Continuing This Practice; Effect on the
Female; Magnetic Exchange; Problem of Unequal
Couples; Relation of the Orgasm to Conception;
Coitus Interruptus as a Method of Birth Control;
Coitus in Relation to Propagation.
P H Y S I C A L AND PHYSIOLOGICAL
F A C T S ......................................................... 82
The Sex Urge an Emotional Function; Effect of
Two Nervous Systems on the Sex Urge; Time
When the Sex Urge Becomes Manifest; Physical
Aspects of the Sex Urge; Sentimentality Connected
With the Sex Urge; Hunger Compared With the
Sex Urge; Factors That Affect the Sex Urge; Re­
lation of the Psychological to the Physical Sexual
Functions; Physical Reactions on the Psychic;
Age, Climate and Other Factors Affecting the Sex
Urge; Phyllis Blanchard on Sublimation of Sex;
Vicarious Methods of Sexual Expression.
CHASTITY AND CONTINENCE . . . 91
Instances in History of Sex Repression; Adverse
Opinions on Sex Repression; Factors Pertaining to
Chastity; Other Methods of Sexual Expression;
Need for Chastity; Excesses Exaggerated; 1
1
1 Ef­
fects of Continence; Case of St. Francis; Can Sex
Be Repressed? ; Methods of Sublimation of Sex;
Effect of Sex on Other Creative Effort; Dancing;
Exercise and Preoccupation in Relation to Sex;
Magnetism and Other Factors Effecting Sex.
NORMAL SEX U R G E .................................. 99
A Normal Urge Does Not Exist; Many Authorities
Referred to for Light on the Subject; Factors That
Affect the Sex Urge; Age and Vigor; Male Com­
pared with the Female; Relation of Age of
Individual to the Sex Urge; Excesses in Sexual Ex­
pression ; Abnormal Practices; Buddha on Sensual­
ity; Uncivilized People Compared to Civilized; A
Case Report; Oscar Wilde, Swedenborg and Their
Two Extreme Philosophies; Effect of Fiction and
Obscene Literature; Hereditary Influences; Arti­
xiii
LOVE AND LIFE
ficial Stimulation and Other Factors Affecting the
Sex Urge.
SEX P A T H O L O G Y ........................................ 107
Ignorance Concerning Pathology of the Sexual Or­
gans; Pathology of Sexual Organs Described;
How Pathology Affects the Sex Urge; Apostrophe
Dedicatory; Authority for Pathology of Sexual
Organs; Some Extreme Results Due to Pathology;
Illustrations of Reflex Results of Pathology; Prof.
Angell on Reflexes; Public Need of Education on
the Pathology of the Sexual Organs.
FRIGIDITY AND IM POTENCE . . . 115
Frigidity and Impotence Defined; Turgescence
Defined; Detumescence; Effect of Incomplete De-
tumescence on Women; Sexual Organs at Time of
Erotic Feelings; Causes of Frigidity; Masturbation;
Pathological Causes of Frigidity and Impotence;
Relation of the Endocrine Glands to Frigidity and
Impotence; Laws of Stimuli; Magnetic Influences;
Psychological Influences; Various Physical Stimuli.
SEX P E R V E R S IO N S ...................................126
Fetichism; Sadism; Masochism; Flagellation; Exhi­
bitionism; Homosexuality; Fixations; Fielding on
Sex and the Love Life; Stekel on Behavior;
Erotogenic Zones; Effect of Father and Mother
on Their Children; Obsessions and Delusions; The
Single Track Mind and Fixed Ideas.
D IET AND S E X ..............................................138
Resume of Different Diets; Classification of Food;
Use of Different Kinds of Food; Balanced Diet;
Army and Navy Rations; Food and Constipation;
The Pregnant Woman and Food; Animal Experi­
ments ; Deleterious Action of Foods; All Diseases
Caused by Wrong Diet; Foods That Affect the Sex
Urge; Gonads to Restore Sexual Function; Diet to
Reduce the Sex Urge; What to Avoid in Diet;
Importance of Water.
SEX AND C R I M E ........................................ 146
Crime Defined; Crime Is Inherent; Behavior Is
Artificial; Basic Causes of Crime; The Sex Urge
XIV
CONTENTS
as a Fundamental Cause of Crime; Ultimate and
Proximate Motives; Secondary Desires; The Desex
Story by Ella Wheeler Wilcox; Sterilization as a
Curb to Crime; Early Sexual Abuses Lead to
Crime; Hereditary Influences on Crime; Prostitu­
tion and Crime; Physical Development and Training
as a Curb to Crime; An Illustration Showing
Proximal and Ultimate Motives; Opportunity;
Temptation and Circumstances; Internal and Ex­
ternal Excitants to Crime; Schools of Crime;
Excitement; Drugs; Selfishness; Summing Up.
T H E ART OF L O V E ...................................163
Attributes Founded on the Sex Urge; Basis of
Love; Love-Making in Lower Animals; Different
Methods of Love-Making; Love as an Art; Criti­
cism Death to Love; Basic Principles in All
Association; Diverse Methods of Love-Making; Ig­
norance as to Love-Making; Love After Marriage;
The Bridal Night; Skill Needs to Be Exercised in
the Love Life; Sex Nature of Woman Compared
to Man; Havelock Ellis on Love; Love Before and
After Marriage; Preparation and Training in the
Art of Love.
SEX EDUCATION OF YO UTH . . . 174
Psychology of Childhood; When a Child Should
Be Instructed About Sex Matters; Who Should
Instruct the Child; How to Instruct the Child;
Curiosity a Gift; Effect of Fiction on the Sex Life;
Object of the Love Life Should Be Taught; Making
Sex Knowledge Beautiful.
SEX P S Y C H O L O G Y .................................. 180
Psycho Analysis; Drs. Freud and Jung; Boris Sidis;
Conscious and Subconscious Influences; Effect of
Repression; Interest in Sexual Subjects; Law of
Impulses; Krafft-Ebing’s Cases; Effect of Pathol­
ogy; How Disassociation of Ideas Come About;
Conscious and Memory Centers in the Brain; Law
of Association; Single Track Mind; Dual Perso­
nality Explained; Phenomena of Sleep; Psycho­
logical Influences That Effect the Sex Urge; A
Summing Up.
GLOSSARY ................................................... 197
xv
C h a p t e r I
THE SEX URGE
A COMPARATIVE REVIEW
T
A his subject was suggested because of so much
having been written and said about the sex obsession
of America and the clamor of the younger genera­
tion for more freedom in sex expression.
Primitive man fought for and captured his mate
and held her in slavery: he had to continue to fight
to hold her as his private property. The first war
ever fought between men was probably for the pos­
session of a woman. As the population increased
and they were compelled to socialize, personal
prowess and eternal vigilance became impracticable.
Leaders arose with groups of followers, and as
group fought against group, the loss of life and
property, principally women, became so great that
these groups began to unite and make laws to govern
their property. Thus the sacred rights of property
became established. The history of early civiliza­
tion proves this conclusively. The uncivilized and
semi-civilized tribes, still existing, are examples of
[17]
LOVE AND LIFE
primitive life and customs. With very few excep­
tions, man has dominated and ruled woman, making
all laws and enforcing them. Woman’s influence
has been by personal charm, individual excellence,
persuasion and ingenuity. She has never tried to
secure equal rights with man until comparatively
recent years.
The sex urge is not new, nor does it dominate the
mind of man in this age any more than in past ages.
It will only be necessary to recall to your mind a
few brief instances in history to prove that the sex
urge has been a predominant emotion since time
began, at least as far back as the history of man
is recorded. I cite the comparatively modern his­
tory of Europe. In fact, if a complete and true
history of the nobility of Europe were written (as
in castle, so in hut), it would be justly barred from
our public libraries. It would be fit reading only
for some old worn out roue to stimulate his jaded
energies to new adventures. If one goes a little
further back into Roman history, one finds it full
of sex scandals. There is Salome, Herod’s daugh­
ter, who asked for the head of John the Baptist.
Why? Because she became infatuated with him and
he repulsed her. Go back into Egypt and you have
Cleopatraj or still further back to the time of King
David, a man who lived at a time when polygamy
[18]
SEX URGE: A COMPARATIVE REVIEW
was the fashion and when God, according to scrip­
ture, approved of it. King David, simply because
he saw a woman taking a bath in the evening and
took a fancy to her, desired her in order to satisfy
his sex urge and sent her husband to the firing line
where he was sure to be killed. One would, no
doubt, call his a psychological, rather than a normal
urge, for King David was in a position to satisfy
any normal urge, with all the embellishments and
refinements that his times could supply. In legal
parlance one would call his an act of “forethought
and malicious intent,” in contradistinction to “im­
pulse of the moment”. I would pass over, lightly
and without comment, the fact that at this time he
was the chosen representative of God and continued
to be the leader of God’s chosen people for some
time afterward.
I might mention Solomon with his seven hundred
wives and three hundred concubines. History is full
of accounts of murder, poisoning, wars, rapine, plots
and counter-plots, to satisfy the sex urge. After
these few random references to history, showing that
we of our age are not alone in having a sex urge, I
shall later on review a few of the difficulties encoun­
tered in the present day.
We all want our children to grow to manhood
and womanhood prepared to live more complete,
[19]
LOVE AND LIFE
successful, and happy lives than we have lived. Our
experience and observation have taught us much con­
cerning sex, but most of us are still too ignorant to
impart accurate knowledge concerning this subject
so vital to life and happiness, or we are too prudish
or prejudiced by false conceptions or sentiments, to
transmit this knowledge to our children.
The lower forms of life consist of birth, a short
existence, propagation and death. As we reach the
higher forms of animal life, the function of gen­
eration becomes periodic, until we come to the high­
est form of life, man, where we find that the sex
urge is the principal stimulus that develops those
finer attributes, such as love, sacrifice and service.
Sex is a subject of interest to all, manifested in
children by curiosity, and in adults by desire. Con­
versation, books, newspapers and the stage, are full
of sex themes. A divorce scandal, especially if cen­
tered around sex, makes a big “hit”. Sex jokes and
plots on the stage, coarse for the vulgar, refined and
more subtile for the aesthetic, please the audience.
Accurate scientific knowledge is in demand by those
who desire to know, and it should be given to them
in a clean, wholesome way, and this knowledge
should be received, not to satisfy morbid curiosity,
but for the purpose of enlightenment on a subject
that touches and colors everybody’s life.
[20]
SEX URGE: A COMPARATIVE REVIEW
In the lower forms of life, the sex urge is purely
instinctive, but as the forms of life rise in the scale,
we find them manifesting secondary characteristics—
cavorting, strutting, teasing, and various other antics
—to display themselves and attract and win the op­
posite sex. These would appear to be almost acts
of consciousness. In the human, the sex urge is not
only instinctive, but, due to the higher intellectual
development, becomes refined and productive of the
highest attainments of which a human is capable or
debased into lustful degeneracy.
The sex urge, being a basic incentive for the
propagation of the entire animal kingdom, becomes,
in man, the principal stimulus for good or evil.
A physician comes in contact every day with hor­
rible examples resulting from ignorance, false mod­
esty or the lack of open-mindedness between those
who know and those who want to know.
Later on I explain many of the mysteries and
clear up misconceptions on the basis of anatomy and
physiology, which must be studied carefully in order
to obtain a correct understanding of this subject. I
also introduce the pathology of the sexual organs,
which has an important influence on the sex urge, in
an original and unique manner, and apply this
knowledge in making clear many of the phenomena
connected with sexual implses.
[21]
C h a p t e r II
SEX PROBLEMS OF OUR DAY
have certain problems to meet that are pe-
culiar to this age which differs, in some respects, from
any other period in history. Slavery, for instance,
has always existed to some extent up to within the
last fifty years, and slaves were used at liberty to
satisfy sexual desire. Another means, or outlet, for
the overflow of sex expression, was prostitution.
Probably at no time in the history of the world has
it been made so difficult for prostitutes to ply their
trade as at present. Not only is the prostitute low­
ered in the estimation of society and looked upon
as the most infamous and degraded of human beings,
but municipal laws make it almost impossible for
her to exist. There was a time when the prostitute,
under the name of courtezan, mistress, demi-mon-
daine or concubine, was held more or less in esteem,
and some were even shown considerable social dis-
[22]
SEX PROBLEMS OF OUR DAY
tinction. The law allowed them to exist and even
undertook to regulate their practice.
Another problem is venereal diseases. Probably
at no time in the history of the world have venereal
diseases been so common and universally prevalent
among all classes of people. The health commis­
sioners of some of our larger cities have given out
reports claiming that twenty per cent of our young
men become infected with syphilis, and fifty per
cent with gonorrhea, and, of course, there must be
a large proportion of the women infected likewise.
This knowledge has been disseminated through the
daily papers, medical journals and health bulletins,
so that the young men and women of our genera­
tion are quite familiar with these facts. As there
are no laws requiring a thorough medical examina­
tion to determine physical fitness and to obtain a
clean bill of health in order to be united in the
bonds of matrimony, many of both sexes consider
long and seriously before assuming the risk of being
infected with these loathsome diseases and, no doubt,
many postpone indefinitely getting married.
Syphilis is a disease for which no remedy has ever
been discovered that will completely eradicate it
from the system. There are treatments, to be sure,
that will cause the symptoms to disappear and even
make the disease impossible to detect by the most
[23]
LOVE AND LIFE
delicate of laboratory tests, yet, it can still be in the
system and liable at any time to manifest its baneful
effects in some one of its protean forms. Gonorrhea
is even more dangerous to women, from the matri­
monial standpoint, as such a large proportion of the
men are infected with it in their youth, and it is
generally considered of such little consequence. This
is a disease that is apparently very easy to get rid of,
and most young men think, when the discharge
stops, that they are cured. Nothing could be fur­
ther from the truth, as the gonococci, the bacteria of
this infection, may lie dormant in the glandular tis­
sue connected with the genital tract for years, giving
no hint of their presence to the host, then suddenly
break out with renewed vigor and virulence. Even
in the quiescent state they may infect the chaste,
pure (physically), innocent bride. Is it any wonder
that half the women are physical wrecks after they
have been married a while, and a large percentage of
them have to go to hospitals to be operated upon for
pus tubes or some other pelvic disease?
Polygamy has always been practiced by different
peoples in the world’s history, but now is practically
abolished.
Economics, eugenics and birth control are prob­
lems to be solved, that have a direct relation to the
sex urge, and are of more acute importance than
[24]
SEX PROBLEMS OF OUR DAY
ever before in the world’s history. Living condi­
tions have changed. Woman is competing with man.
Her economic independence is becoming more se­
cure, and man’s chances of supporting a wife and
prospective children in the manner that the educa­
tional and social environment of today demands,
make marriage a hazardous venture.
Eugenics refers to marriage between mates whose
mental, physical and hereditary history should meet
a certain standard of perfection to insure the right
kind of progeny. The necessity is here now, calling
for some regulation, but practically no laws are
made or machinery set in motion to insure a better
next generation. Most young people nowadays know
what hereditary influences mean, and so marriage be­
comes more of a problem. Birth control has always
been practiced, but in our age, due to economics,
eugenics, and the higher conception of what living
really means, and the gradual escape from ignor­
ance, it has become a problem of graver importance
than ever before.
The older any civilization becomes, the more
classified are its different groups, so that choosing a
mate becomes largely confined to a particular social
class.
Frigidity and impotence are more frequent and
become of more importance under this civilization
[25]
LOVE AND LIFE
than ever before and the many factors which have
brought this about will be reviewed under a special
heading. We have dietary problems that have a
direct and indirect influence on the sex urge which
must be solved and everybody needs some informa­
tion about them.
Marriage and divorce are becoming a huge prob­
lem, and while I do not attempt to solve it, some
of the factors connected with this question should
receive thorough consideration. Perverts, weak-
minded persons and morons are becoming more nu­
merous in this generation than ever before and pre­
sent a grave problem to be solved.
[26]
C h a p t e r I I I
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE
IN/Ionogamic marriage is, in most countries, the
only legal, moral and socially approved method of
satisfying the sex urge in this age. It is probably
needless to state that the principal object in forming
the marriage tie, at least on the side of the male, is
sex expression. Most modern marriages are sup­
posed to be love unions, and the bond, that should
continue to bind the couple, should be love, but alas,
the laws that bind are the civil and canonical. The
many mismated couples, as shown by divorce court
records, are complete evidence that something is
wrong with the love ties after marriage. The old
saying that “When marriage comes in at the door,
love flies out of the window,” seems to hold true.
What is wrong? The trouble is that love, as idealized
in this age, has been founded and built on fiction. It
was not until the twelfth century that love became
popularly idealized and civil and canonical laws were
enacted to govern marriage.
[27]
LOVE AND LIFE
Most young men and women get their ideas of
love from reading fiction. The lack of uniformity
in divorce laws and the complications ensuing there­
from, alimony, the disgraceful revelations, publicity,
and the expense of securing a divorce make one hesi­
tate to enter into a contract that is so difficult to
dissolve.
The real cause of separation seldom comes out
in the divorce trial. Desertion, cruelty, non-support
or incompatibility is usually given as the cause, but,
if the truth were known, sexual incompatibility is
behind it all in probably ninety per cent of the cases.
When one considers that one of the prime reasons
for entering this lifelong union is to satisfy the sex
urge, and especially when one considers that there
is but a very small percentage of those who enter
into the marriage relation that are really sexually
mated, and when one realizes the frigidity in women
and the impotence in men, it is a wonder that so
many stick together as do.
Count Leo Tolstoy, in writing on love, taught
that the sexual instinct was the magnet or central at­
traction around which all other charms clustered,
and, without this attraction or magnet, there could
be no love between the sexes as it is usually under­
stood. H . L. Mencken says: “Marriage is not a
contract; it is a way of life. Its essence, when it is
[28]
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE
sound, is a complete surrender of many of the nat­
ural rights of the individual. It is not comparable
to buying an automobile or joining the Elks; it is
comparable to entering a monastery or enlisting for
war. So long as a man loves his wife and children,
there is no need of laws to make him support and
cherish them. H e will do it at any cost to himself.
Contrariwise, when he hates the one, and is indiffer­
ent to the other, no conceivable law can wring out
of him the full measure, nor even a tenth measure,
of the devotion that he owes to them.” Imagine a
man and woman having absolutely no sexual attrac­
tion for each other, with all love gone, and even
actually hating each other, being compelled by civil
or canonical laws, to live through life together.
Primarily, history teaches us that women were de­
sired by men only for sexual purposes and as slaves.
All through the ages of advancing civilization, wom­
en have been considered as property, and even today
in European nations they are in a measure regarded
as such. Even in so advanced a civilization as Eng­
land, the laws, until comparatively recent times,
have considered women largely as property. Many
married women, even in this country and in this
enlightened age, are, economically, private prosti­
tutes and slaves to their husbands. They may enjoy
a few privileges, not accorded to slaves, and, socially
[29]
LOVE AND LIFE
they are not outcasts like prostitutes.
For fear that some will misunderstand me when
I refer to the possibility of a married woman being
a prostitute, I shall explain just what I mean. A
prostitute is usually defined as a woman who sells
her body to a man for money, fine clothes, main­
tenance or position that he may obtain sexual grati­
fication. It does not necessarily mean that she must
also practice promiscuity. Any woman, who marries
a man simply for the purpose of being kept, with
nothing to offer in return but sexual gratification,
and often not that, is a prostitute in the sense in
which I have used the word. A woman, who sub­
mits to coitus when she does not desire it herself, but
because of her economic dependence, or, as some say,
“to keep peace in the family,” prostitutes herself.
A woman, who submits to this act to keep her hus­
band from going outside and spending his money
on other women, buys allegiance. There are many
women, who think it is their wifely duty and that
they are expected by their husbands and society in
general to submit to coitus at any time and as fre­
quently as their husbands desire, without any ref­
erence to their own desires or their health, whom we
would exclude from the above category, not because
they are right, but because of their ignorance.
As education, equal rights as to property and the
[30]
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE
franchise and improved opportunities of economic
independence have been given to woman, there is no
need for her to lower herself to such a degrading
position.
Marriage for the purpose of sex expression and a
woman’s desire for children, companionship and mu­
tual interests, should be her principal incentives.
This brings us to the subject of the children. The
state should have no interest in regulating marriage,
except as to physical fitness, as it is strictly a private
affair, but the children are dependents and the fu­
ture citizens of the state, and, therefore, the state
should have something to say about their support,
education and training. The state should also have
something to say about elderly married women, who
are liable to be left as dependents through our pres­
ent divorce laws, or any that may be made in the
future, as, according to the present system, most
of the property accumulated by married couples is
usually in the possession of the husband. If the
state would take more interest in motherhood, in­
stead of compelling the incompatible and unfit to
live together, it would confer a real benefit on man­
kind.
In some countries they have laws, never enforced,
which do not allow a prospective mother to work in
any of the industries three months before and after
[31]
LOVE AND LIFE
childbirth. If these laws were made universal and
enforced and if they were made to regulate the
amount of work in the home, it would be legislation
in the right direction. The state should take an in­
terest in the proper nourishment of the mother dur­
ing these periods, or even longer, to insure a better
progeny. The state should have some regulation of
whom shall bear children. The moron, the feeble­
minded, the sexual degenerate, the syphilitic, the
epileptic, the alcoholic and the couple who are al­
ways quarreling, seldom produce desirable future
citizens. Our present divorce laws practically force
married couples to commit some crime against civil or
social law in order to secure a divorce. Our laws
governing alimony, division of property and control
of the children are so complicated and unfair that
they create a grave question for those to consider
who contemplate entering the married state.
The alimony question is becoming an issue of
paramount importance. An extensive study of di­
vorce court records reveals the astounding informa­
tion that not a few women make a business of luring
with all their feminine charms, susceptible, prosper­
ous gentry into marriage with the sole object of
securing a divorce and alimony, in some cases quite
illegally collecting alimony from three or four ex-
husbands at the same time, spending the proceeds in
[32]
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE
riotous living and in entertaining the opposite sex.
Many other women enter the married state with
the mental reservation that, if the resultant condi­
tions are not to their liking, they can secure a divorce
and substantial maintenance.
If a true account of all the inside facts concern­
ing one of these alimony adventuresses were ever
written, it would make very interesting and instruc­
tive reading. The story would be more astounding
and fascinating than any fiction ever evolved by
Boccaccio.
The multitudinous, grotesque laws governing
divorce and alimony are driving men and women to
deceit, fraud, unlawful practices and even to crime.
The propriety of a woman collecting money from a
man without rendering him any service in return is
an ethical enigma.
Another difficulty to consider upon entering the
marriage relation—which is more strenuous in this
age than in any other— is the economic question.
The higher standards of living, the higher require­
ments of education for the children, the monopoliza­
tion of the principal necessities of life and the use
of machinery in industries make the responsibilities
of providing for a wife and prospective children
much more difficult.
Some claim that the reason the economic stress is
[ 3 3 ]
LOVE AND LIFE
more acute is because the industrial development of
this country is in excess of the agricultural expan­
sion 5 that urban population is top-heavy in compari­
son with rural 5 that the necessities required under
the present standards of living and the luxuries de­
manded today are producing the economic strain.
Others claim that the rapid expansion of business
on paper, the credit system and the methods of bank­
ing exchange are to blame, but, be that as it may,
there are certainly many of these factors, and otheys
that I have not mentioned, that enter into the in­
creasing struggle for existence. Some claim that the
struggle is no greater than it ever was, but let him
who makes such claims get married on nothing and
raise a family of ten children according to modern
requirements and he will be convinced to the con­
trary.
Due to loss of life in war and the use of machin­
ery by industries, the number of women is consider­
ably in excess of the men. Another big factor that
enters into and materially affects the established
marriage arrangement, as a means of satisfying the
sex urge, is the large number of women that are
entering into industries and practically every walk
of life as wage-earners in active competition with
men, making it increasingly difficult for man to
maintain the old family arrangement.
[34]
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE
The family, as a social group, is very ancient, and,
as every old established institution is difficult to tear
down, or even to alter or regulate, the process of
making any changes to meet the exigencies of life
will necessarily be very slow and it is probably
well that this is so. The family, as an arrangement
for gratifying the sex urge and as the basis of a
nation, has proved throughout the ages to be the
most enduring nucleus ever tried.
There are many persons, male and female, who
are unfitted for marriage, as, for instance, the weak-
minded, the moron, those of lop-sided mental de­
velopment, the habitual criminal, the habitual
drunkard, the periodic drunkard, the sexual degen­
erate or pervert, the epileptic, those suffering from
one of the many forms of insanity and the many
border-line cases of insanity, not to mention those
afflicted with certain other diseases, of which syphilis
is one, that might be excluded, on the ground that
with thorough, persistent treatment, it can be eradi­
cated to a point where it is not infectious or liable to
be inherited by the offspring; yet, its baneful effects
may be manifested in a constitutional deficiency.
There are some whose temperament, disposition
and peculiarities make them absolutely impossible as
compatible companions. There are some, whose
particular mental make-up, and, one might say, ob-
[ 35]
LOVE AND LIFE
session for promiscuity, make them unfit for family
life. There are many whose sex urge is so excessive
or their passion so uncontrolled that it is impossible
for any one person to satisfy them.
Because of the fact that marriage for many must
be postponed until late in life and that some are
never fitted for marriage on account of the numer­
ous reasons given above, especially if they raise a
family in accordance with our present laws, it would
seem to indicate that there ought to be some pro­
vision legally made to take care of this enormous
class of individuals sexually, and yet, preserve the
family life from their deleterious influence. There
have been very few changes made in the marriage
laws, but the laws relative to divorce are about as
numerous as there are states and court decisions. In
regard to alimony, lawyers’ fees, temporary allow­
ance, division of property and provision for the off­
spring, the rulings are almost as numerous and va­
ried as there are cases. Thus, many are living to­
gether without the formality of marriage, many are
practicing promiscuity and still many more are mar­
ried but disregard the laws forbidding birth control.
There is a crying need for uniform just laws to
govern divorce, to compensate the parties interested,
to provide for the offspring and for some kind of
regulation of birth control.
[36]
C h a p t e r I V
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
brief description of the anatomy of the sex or­
gans and their functions in connection with genera­
tion and the sex urge is necessary for an under­
standing of this subject.
The various parts of the male sexual organs are
practically duplicated in the female. The penis of
man is the clitoris of woman, the difference is in de­
velopment, it being much larger in man. The penis
of man is from four and one-half inches to nine
inches long, and from four to six inches in circum­
ference. The shaft is composed of two bodies,
called the corpora cavernosa, and the urethra, ar­
ranged similarly to an old-fashioned double-barreled
shotgun, the urethra being placed as the ramrod of
the gun. The end of the penis is capped by the
glans penis, which is slightly larger than the shaft.
The posterior border of the glans is marked by the
corona or rim, and the urethra passes through the
glans and opens as a slit at the end. The penis is
[37]
LOVE AND LIFE
richly supplied by blood vessels, which become en­
gorged with blood during erection. It is also well
equipped with nerves which have a special sexual
sensibility, particularly in the glans. The penis is
covered by skin loosely attached to the shaft, which
Internal female genitals.
usually extends over, but should not be attached to
the glans. The part of the skin that folds over the
glans is called the foreskin or prepuce, and is the
part that is cut off in circumcision. That portion of
the foreskin which is fastened to the glans on the
under side, is called the frenum. The frenum being
too short, distorting the penis, and the foreskin being
too tight are the principal reasons for circumcision.
[38]
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
However, there are several other good reasons, as
the glans just behind the corona of the glans penis
secrete smegma that not only becomes very foul­
smelling, but irritates the glans penisj also the glans,
being kept covered all of the time, is in such a deli­
cate, sensitive condition that when the skin is pulled
back in the act of coitus, ejaculation takes place too
soon and the parts are very likely to become irritated
and even abraded. Often the skin is so tight that
it cannot be pulled back or if pulled back, it con­
stricts the penis back of the corona, shutting off the
blood supply and venous drainage of the glans. Too
much loose skin sometimes acts as a sheath within
which the penis slides back and forth during the act
of coitus without producing friction on either the
female or male.
Under the foreskin is an ideal place to become
infected with disease germs. The most sensitive
parts of the penis are around the corona and along
the frenum on the under side. If the projecting
loose tissue is cut away in such a manner as not to
constrict the penis behind the corona, or to pull the
glans down by a tight frenum, leaving the glans
free and uncovered to be exposed to the friction of
the clothing, it is kept clean and becomes toughened
so as not to be easily abraded or irritated, but will
require more friction, and thus both the male and
[39]
LOVE AND LIFE
female will derive more pleasure in the act of coitus.
The clitoris varies from the size of a pea to the
size of the end of one’s little finger, and is from an
inch to an inch and a half long, but it is buried in
such a way that its entire length is not apparent.
There is no urethra connected with the clitoris, but
it is formed by two bodies, the same as the penis, and
it is located high in the vestibule between the labia
majora, which contain considerable fat that protects
it. The clitoris is covered by a foreskin the same
as the penis, usually called the hood or prepuce.
This hood is formed by a splitting of the labia
minora or inner lips. The labia minora are similar
to a cock’s comb and are composed of mucous mem­
brane only. One fold goes over the top of the
clitoris, forming the hood, and the other dips under
and is attached to the under side, forming the
frenum, much the same as in the male. Very often
this hood is too long, too tight and adherent to the
clitoris, so that it cannot be pulled back and the
clitoris be exposed to normal friction or cleanliness.
Around the base of the clitoris are located glands
that secrete smegma, and many times when the
physician forces the hood back, hard balls of cheese­
like smegma that had been held back by a long, tight
hood, will be exposed. This secretion had been ac­
cumulating there since childhood, irritating this deli-
[ 4 0 ]
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
cate, sensitive organ. The frenum is often too
short, pulling the clitoris down and not allowing a
normal erection, and is formed by the splitting
of the labia minora, which are often long, thickened,
heavy, pendulous folds of mucous membrane, which
still further pull down on the clitoris.
The next to consider is the scrotum in man and
the labia majora in woman, which are analogous
structures. The labia majora in woman are the out-
[41]
LOVE AND LIFE
side lips, which are covered with hair and contain
considerable fat. In the embryonic formation of the
body, it was once split open down the middle, in
front, and when it folded in, and the two sides
united in the median line, which shows as a white
line on the abdomen, it failed to unite these few
inches that form the labia majora. In man, this part
of the skin is much elongated and unites, forming
the scrotum or bag, that supports the testes. Fail­
ure of union of the two sides of the body is the
cause of cleft palate and harelip. Sometimes this
failure on the underside of the penis causes hypospa-
dia, or an opening of the urethra on the under side.
The urethra in woman is very short, being about
one and one-half inches long and only represents
the upper part of the male urethra. It passes from
the bladder just under the pubic bone and just in
front of the vagina and opens slightly above the en­
trance to the vagina in the vestibule between the
labia minora. It is separated from the vagina by
only a few layers of tissue and is often bruised
and injured by rough coitus, and in childbirth by
being mashed against the pubic bone.
The vagina of woman has no analogous organ in
man. It is a canal which has its opening just below
the mouth of the urethra, between the labia minora
and has often been called the birth canal because the
[42]
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
fetus passes out through it, and it receives the penis
of man in the act of coitus. It is rather small at the
entrance and is guarded by the hymen, which is a
thin fold of mucous membrane partly covering the
entrance. It used to be considered that an unbroken
hymen or maidenhead, as it is sometimes called, was
a sign of virginity, but due to the fact that it is often
absent, or imperfect, or has been ruptured by acci­
dent, and, even if present, it may have been grad­
ually stretched sufficiently to allow coitus, this old
belief has lost its significance.
The vagina extends into the lower pelvis, becom­
ing larger at its upper end, or vault, and lies be­
tween the bladder in front and the rectum behind.
Projecting into the upper end of the vagina is the
uterus, which is a pear-shaped, hollow, muscular or­
gan, about three and one-half inches long, two and
one-half inches wide and one inch thick} the small
end is called the neck or cervix, and it is this part
that projects into the vault of the vagina. At the
mouth, or os, of the cervix, is a small opening,
usually a little larger than a knitting needle and
about one and one-half inches long, that leads into a
small cavity in the body of the uterus. The uterus,
or womb, is held in place very loosely by inter­
abdominal pressure and several ligaments. A full
bladder pushes it back} a full sigmoid colon crowds
[43]
LOVE AND LIFE
it in almost any direction} a full rectum pulls it
down and back and many other factors tend to cause
it to get out of place. During pregnancy, the
External female genitals. (Eckley.)
placenta of the fetus attaches to its inside wall
to receive nourishment, and the uterus enlarges to
[44]
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
accommodate the growing fetus and rises into the
abdominal cavity to find room for its gradual expan­
sion. We have its analogy in man located in the
floor of the urethra in connection with the prostate
gland. It is very small and is called the uterus mas-
culinus. Connected with the female uterus at its
fundus, or big end, are two tubes about the size of a
large angle-worm, called the fallopian tubes. They
expand at their outer extremity, somewhat like a
trumpet, with small finger-like projections. These
are called the fimbriated ends, which receive the ova,
or eggs, from the ovaries, that are carried down
these narrow tubes into the uterus by a wave-like
motion of the ciliated epithelia, which line the fal­
lopian tubes. The ovaries in woman, and the testes
in man, developed originally from the lower end of
the kidneys. The ovaries descended and became
embedded in the broad ligament, out a little from
each side of the fundus of the uterus and are about
the size of an almond nut. It is here that the eggs,
or ova, are developed and thrown out of the ovaries
by rupturing the surface as they become fully ma­
tured. By counting the graafian follicles after the
change of life, or menopause, it is estimated that
several thousand eggs are developed and thrown out
during the menstrual life of a woman. The old
theory that the phenomenon of menstruation was
[45]
LOVE AND LIFE
produced by ovulation, has been exploded, as many
more eggs are developed and thrown out than would
account for the menstrual periods in a woman’s life­
time.
The ovaries have a very important internal secre­
tion, which is taken up into the general circulation by
the capillaries that permeate the ovaries, that per­
form several important functions in the body, such
as oxidation of fat, activating and energizing the
mind and body, stimulating the sex urge and reg­
ulating the menstrual periods and flow. Although
the menstrual periods seem to be a cyclic phe­
nomenon, yet removal of the ovaries or disease,
causes the menstrual periods to cease, or be pro­
foundly disturbed.
The testes of man correspond to the ovaries of
woman, but they descend through the abdominal
wall, by way of the inguinal canals, which are above
and to the sides of the symphysis pubis, and are
finally supported by the scrotum, or bag, as described
above. They carry with them their blood vessels,
nerves and spermatic cords, which all pass over in
front of the pubic bone. The spermatic cord is a
hollow tube that drops down in the pelvis and
empties into the seminal vesicles, which are small
reservoirs located on each side of the neck of the
bladder, used for the storing up of the seminal
[46]
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
fluid. They in turn, empty their contents through a
couple of small ducts that pass through the prostate
gland into the floor of the urethra, when ejaculation
takes place. The testes of man have two functions
similar to the ovaries of woman. They manufacture
the spermatozoa, which are the actual organisms of
man that fertilize the ova of woman in the process
of generation. These spermatozoa are miscroscopic
organisms, which look very much like tadpoles.
They have spear-like heads and long tails or flagella,
with which they swim about. It has been estimated
that there are about three hundred of these sperma­
tozoa in each drop of seminal fluid from a healthy
man, but it is only necessary for one to penetrate the
egg of woman to impregnate it.
It might be interesting to follow the route this
little organism takes to reach the ova of woman. As
it leaves the testicle of man, it passes through a con­
glomeration of tubes, called the epididymis, which
finally straighten out in the vas deferens, or sper­
matic cord, which runs up in front of the pubic
bone and passes through the inguinal canal into the
abdominal cavity, where it turns down into the pelvis
and empties into the seminal vesicles, where it is
stored up, ready to be thrown into the urethral canal
during ejaculation. The spermatozoa swim in an
abundance of albuminous, serous secretion, partly
[47]
LOVE AND LIFE
furnished by the testicles, partly by the seminal
vesicles, prostate gland and Cowper’s glands, con­
nected with the urethra. This secretion is alkaline in
reaction, which is necessary to the life of the sper-
Vertical Motion of testicle. (After Gray.)
matozoa. During the act of coitus, at the time of
ejaculation, it is discharged into the vagina. Then
the spermatozoa, by their swimming motion, enter
the mouth of the cervix of the uterus and find their
[48]
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
way up into the fallopian tubes, where they come
in proximity to the ova of the female. The ovum
has a strong attraction for the spermatozoa and they
rush toward it, but as soon as one penetrates it, the
rest are repelled.
The fallopian tube has been called lovers’ lane,
or the sporting ground for the ova and spermatozoa.
After the ovum is fertilized, it travels down the
tube, where it enters the uterus, or womb, and be­
comes attached to the wall of the womb, where it
develops into a fetus. If you have followed the
route the spermatozoa take to reach and impregnate
the ovum, you can readily see that if disease closes
the duct in the spermatic cord, no spermatozoa could
leave the man. A simple operation called vasectomy,
which is tying off a section of the duct by a couple of
ligatures around it about an inch apart or the cutting
out of a section of the cord, produces sterility in the
male. Likewise, if the mouth of the cervix is too
tight, or the canal is plugged up with a discharge,
the spermatozoa cannot get into the uterus. Then
again, if the fallopian tubes are closed, they cannot
get up into the tubes, or if the trumpet, or fimbriated
ends of the tubes are closed, the eggs cannot get in,
causing the female to be barren. Even if the ovum
and a spermatozoon should get together and the
ovum become fertilized, it may pass on through the
[49]
LOVE AND LIFE
uterus and not become implanted on its wall and de­
velop into a fetus, on account of an unhealthy con­
dition of the mucous lining.
Removing the fallopian tubes, or tying them off,
would, of course, make the woman sterile. A lot of
nonsense about coitus in relation to the menstrual
periods, such as a woman having to reciprocate and
ejaculate at the same time as the male, is not in har­
mony with the facts. All that is necessary is that
live, healthy spermatozoa be deposited in the vagina,
and if the woman’s parts are normal so that they can
find their way to the ova, nature does the rest, and
as there are so many eggs being deposited, with an
irregularity that cannot be determined, the time of
impregnation is very indefinite.
Located at the base of the labia minora are
Bartholin’s glands, which, during sexual excitement,
throw out considerable secretion to lubricate the
parts, and no other secretion has been noted on the
part of woman when she has an orgasm. Of course,
the uterus and vagina have a normal secretion, the
same as all mucous membranes. The testes also
have an internal secretion that has similar functions
to the internal secretion of the ovaries, in that it
acts as a hormone in conjunction with other internal
secretions, to maintain blood pressure, energize the
body and mind, stimulate the sex urge, etc.
[50]
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
The prostate gland is a fibro-muscular, glandular
body, about the size and shape of a chestnut, which
s u rro u n d s th e u re th ra in m a n , ju s t b elo w th e neck
of the bladder. It has a number of ducts that empty
their secretion in the floor of the urethra and also
the ducts from the seminal vesicles pass throught it.
It assists in expelling the semen, and is generally
considered a sexual gland. It is often the site of
disease and when it becomes enlarged, interferes
with urination and normal sexual functions.
This brief and simple description of the sex or­
gans of both male and female, with their functions,
ought to clear up many misconceptions concerning
them. The prudish may think this is not a subject
for free dissemination, but it should be of vital im­
portance and interest to all. The greatest of Greek
philosophers, Aristotle, saw fit to write on this sub­
ject for the instruction of the people of his time.
After giving a rather imperfect description of the
sex organs of both male and female, he undertakes
in section III of “Aristotle’s Masterpiece” to give
“A word of advice to both sexes; or directions respect­
ing the act of coition, or carnal copulation.” I shall
quote it verbatim, because of its beautiful language
and the delicate way in which he presents the subject.
“I doubt not that the generality of both sexes,
when in a married state, have such a desire to pro-
[51]
LOVE AND LIFE
duce the fair image of themselves, that nothing can
be more welcome to them than these directions, that
they may make their mutual embraces most effectual
to that end; and therefore, let none think it strange
that we pretend to give directions for the promoting
that which nature itself teaches all to perform; since
it is no solecism for art to be a hand-maid to nature,
and to assist her in her noblest operations. Neither
is it the bare performing of that act which we here
direct to, but the performing it so as to make it con­
ducive to the work of generation. And since this act
is the foundation of generation, and without which
it cannot be, some care ought to be taken, and con­
sequently some advice given, how to perform it
well: and therein I am sure the proverb is on our
side, which tells us, ‘that what is once well done is
twice done.’ But yet, what we shall advance on this
nice subject, shall be offered with that caution, as not
to give offense to the chastest ear, nor put the fair
sex to the trouble of blushing. What I shall offer
will consist of two parts: first, something previous to
it; and secondly, something consequential to it.
“For the first, when married persons desire to fol­
low the propensions of nature, for the productions
of nature, for the productions of the fair image of
themselves, let every thing that looks like care and
business be banished from their thoughts, for all
[52]
ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY
such things are enemies to Venus, and let their ani­
mal and vital spirits be powerfully exhilarated by
some brisk and generous restorative} and let them,
to invigorate their fancies, survey the lovely beau­
ties of each other, and bear the bright idea of them
in their minds. And it may not be amiss for the
bridegroom for the more eager heightening of his
joys, to delineate the scene of his approaching hap­
piness to his fair languishing bride, in some such
amorous rapture as this:
Now, my fair bride, now will I storm the mint
Of love and joy and rifle all that’s in it}
Now my infranchis’d hand on ev’ry side
Shall o’er thy naked polish’d iv’ry slide,
Freely shall now my longing eyes behold
Thy bearded snow, and thy unbraided gold.
No curtain now, though of transparent lawn,
Shall be before thy virgin treasure drawn.
I will enjoy thee now, my fairest! come,
And fly with me to love’s Elysium!
“When the act of coition is over, and the bride­
groom has done what nature has prompted him to
do, he ought to take care not to withdraw too pre­
cipitately from the field of love, lest he should by
so doing let the cold into the womb, which might
be of dangerous consequence. But when he has
given time for the matrix to close up, he may with-
[53]
LOVE AND LIFE
draw and leave the bride to her repose; which ought
to be with all the calmness possible, betaking herself
to rest on the right side, and not removing without
great occasion till she has taken her first sleep.
Coughing and sneezing, if possible, should be
avoided, or any thing that agitates or causes a motion
of the body. These amorous engagements should
not be often repeated, till the conception is con­
firmed. And it may not be amiss to remind the
bridegroom that the fair lasts all the year, and that
he should be careful not to spend his stock lavishly j
as women in general are better pleased with having
a thing once well done than often ill done.”
When Aristotle said, the matrix must have time to
close up, he was evidently laboring under a very
common delusion that many people have even in this
enlightened age, namely, that the uterus opens up to
receive the penis of man during coitus, or at least
that it opens up to receive the semen, or has some
kind of suction action that draws the semen up into
the womb. The fact is, the opening in the cervix
of the uterus undergoes no change whatsoever that
has ever been demonstrated. The only change in
any of the parts is that they become congested with
blood, and a cold douche immediately following the
act is very liable to prove detrimental to the health
of the woman.
[54]
C h a p t e r V
MENSTRUATION AND THE MENOPAUSE
IV^Ienstruation, called monthly periods, monthly
sickness, and various other names, is a phenomenal
function connected with the sex organs of woman
that needs explaining at some length because of its
intimate relation to the sex urge, and of its vital im­
portance to the health of the individual. Menstrua­
tion is a natural function which begins in adolescence
and continues to the time of the menopause, com­
monly called the change of life. Adolescence is
marked by certain signs in the girl, such as: hair
growing on the pubes; enlarging and rounding out
of the breastsj enlargement of the hips and psychic
changes, such as modesty and reticence. This usually
occurs between the ages of twelve and sixteen years,
although in hot climates it takes place much earlier,
and in cold climates later.
The menstrual flow is marked by a show of blood
[55]
LOVE AND LIFE
from the vagina, which is the result of a congestion
of the uterus, ovaries and fallopian tubes. In fact,
these organs become engorged with blood, so that
the escape of blood is in reality a hemorrhagic
exudate, mingled with more or less mucus, serum
and epithelial cells. Practically the entire super­
ficial lining of the uterus is shed at this time, all of
which escapes through the small opening in the
cervix. This occurs about every twenty-eight days
in the majority of women during their menstrual
life, except when pregnant or nursing their babes.
The length of time the flow continues varies from
two days to seven in most cases. The amount varies
from one ounce and a half to several ounces, de­
pending on the individual.
As I mentioned before, the internal secretion from
the ovaries probably has much to do with the regula­
tion of this function, and ovulation has very little to
do with it. We know that the blood pressure is a
little higher at this time, and destruction of the
ovaries disturbs this function or causes it to cease.
The constitutional symptoms usually experienced
are: just previous to menstruation there is a feeling
of malaise, a heavy feeling low down in the abdo­
men ; a slight nervousness; a slight tenderness in
the breasts, and sometimes a slight swelling. These
are normal symptoms which may continue for a day
[56]
MENSTRUATION AND MENOPAUSE
or so after the flow is well established, but such
symptoms as acute pain, cramps, backache, headache,
extreme nervousness, prostration and the complete
disability that so many suffer under modern civiliza­
tion are a positive indication that something is rad­
ically wrong. To go into detail and describe all the
causes of these abnormal symptoms would occupy
too much space. However, I call attention to the
fact that if the ovaries are not healthy and properly
developed, they cannot produce the internal secre­
tion to bring on this function normally. If the uterus
be undeveloped or diseased, so that its narrow out­
let is plugged up with mucus, the flow cannot escape
and it remains in the uterus, forming clots that are
difficult to expel without severe cramps. A mis­
placed uterus, or a loaded bowel crowding down
upon it, catching cold and causing a chronic conges­
tion of the uterus, ovaries and tubes, and many other
factors, interfere with normal menstruation.
Every girl should be thoroughly instructed long
before this function begins as to just what she must
expect and how to prepare for it and how to govern
herself during and immediately afterward. She
should be taught that this is a perfectly normal func­
tion and that pain and disability is abnormal. Cer­
tain precautions should be taken at this time, such
as: not swimming in cold water, bathing in very
[57]
LOVE AND LIFE
hot or cold water, sitting on damp, cold ground, tak­
ing violent exercise, jumping and heavy lifting,
catching cold in any way, getting constipated, or
taking physic. Any one of these things would tend
to produce excessive congestion of the internal gen­
erative organs. The girl should be taught that, if
the flow stops because of a cold, a hot foot bath or
hip bath will help to reestablish it. Psychic shock
often disturbs menstruation. The sex urge is usually
strongest just before or after menstruation. Some­
times it is strongly felt both before and after, and
even during the time of menstruation. Anything
that would tend to excite the sex urge during the
time of menstruation should be avoided, as it would
increase the already congested condition.
The question has often been asked—should coitus
be indulged in during menstruation? It is evident
that it would be bad for the female, as it would in­
crease congestion, and aside from common decency
and cleanliness, the flow from the female is very ir­
ritating and is liable to set up urethritis in the male.
The ancient Hebrews considered a woman unclean
for seven days after her menstrual period and had
severe laws enforcing this belief.
It seems logical to conclude that an impregnated
ovum coming down into the uterus, just after
menstruation, when it has become softened from
[58]
MENSTRUATION AND MENOPAUSE
congestion and has shed its inner lining, would find
a more suitable soil on which to become implanted,
and develop into a fetus, than at any other time of
the month, and that probably is the reason why more
women become pregnant just after the menstrual
period.
The menopause is that time in life when a woman
ceases to menstruate. Some call it the change of life,
or climacteric. This usually occurs at from forty-eight
to fifty years of age, although there is a wide varia­
tion in the age, due to many factors. The prevailing
practice of attributing every symptom from which
a woman might suffer to the menopause, after she
has reached the age of thirty years, is a great mis­
take. In fact, if a woman be normal she should have
practically no severe symptoms during this change.
While the menopause ends her child-bearing pe­
riod, it does not end her sex life or her capacity for
sex gratification.
This change usually comes on gradually by a
menstrual period, or even several of them being
missed and then occurring again. The flow may be
scanty or excessive at these periods. Occasionally a
woman will skip a period, and never flow again, yet
she may have a few of the constitutional symptoms
at the time of her usual periods. The whole being
undergoes a fundamental change. The uterus begins
[59]
LOVE AND LIFE
to shrink, or to atrophy. Changes take place in the
ovaries and there is a general readjustment in the
entire body.
Excessive and continuous flowing, headaches, hot
flashes, cold sweats, sleeplessness, nervous symptoms,
dizziness, heart symptoms, digestive disturbances,
itching, restlessness, mental disorders, and a hundred
and one other symptoms may occur, but there are
some other pathological reasons to account for these
grave disturbances, and if they occur, a woman should
put herself in the hands of a really competent physi­
cian to find out what is wrong. A great deal could
be said about the changes that take place in a woman
at this time. Her sex urge may become excessive
or coitus may become very obnoxious to her. Her
religious and mental life and habits may undergo a
complete change, but again we must point to pathol­
ogy to account for these radical abnormalities.
[60]
C h a p t e r VI
SEX DETERMINATION
IN ^ u ch has been written on this subject and vari­
ous theories and fantastic notions advanced to account
for what determines sex. I shall not attempt to give
all the theories, but I shall name a few— war, peace,
climate, altitude, food supply, age of parents, virility
of parents, health of parents, the planets, passive or
active role of parents during coitus and time of con­
ception as to age of the ovum; but none of these will
stand scientific investigation. In fact, science proves
none of them is true.
In the study of twins, we have two kinds. The
one kind where two separate ova are fertilized by
two separate spermatozoa. They may look more or
less alike and be two boys, two girls, or a boy and a
girl, but when born they are enclosed in two fetal
membranes and have two distinct placentas. The
other kind of twins (identical twins) is always either
[61]
LOVE AND LIFE
both boys, or both girls. They result from one ovum
being fertilized by one spermatozoon. The single
ovum divides and develops two feti, which, when
born, are enveloped in one membrane and have one
placenta. About one-fourth of the twins born is of
this type. This proves conclusively that climate,
age, food, or development within the uterus has
nothing to do with it, but it proves that sex is de­
termined at the time of impregnation.
Taking the cell as the basis of life, the study of
the cell and extensive experiments have established
the following facts: the cell is composed of an en­
closing membrane, inside of which is cytoplasm (a
kind of protoplasm), a network of chromatin mate­
rial, a nucleus, and a certain definite number of
chromosomes. All mammals and even lower forms
of life are classified, as to species, by a particular
number of chromosomes in the original cell. In the
male cell the number of chromosomes is forty-seven
or forty-eight, that is, one half of the spermatozoa
have forty-seven chromosomes and the other half
forty-eight, but the female ovum always has forty-
eight chromosomes. If a spermatozoon containing
forty-seven chromosomes impregnates the ovum, the
result will be a male, and if a spermatozoon contain­
ing forty-eight chromosomes impregnates the ovum,
the result will be a female. In brief, the union of
[62]
SEX DETERM INATION
the male cell, containing an even number of chromo­
somes, with the female cell, produces a female, and
an odd number of chromosomes produces a male.
The ovum plays a passive part and has nothing to do
with the determination of sex. It all depends upon
the number of chromosomes in the spermatozoon. It
is evident that marriages are not made in heaven, but
the determination of sex, which occurs at the time of
impregnation of the ovum, would appear to be gov­
erned by some all-wise creator, as the birth of males
is about one hundred and five to every one hundred
female. The above determination of sex applies to
all mammals and lower forms of life, and studies
and experiments with the freshly impregnated ova,
by a large number of different experimenters, seem
to prove this explanation to be correct.
[63]
C h a p t e r VI I
BIRTH CONTROL
i^^irth control is so closely associated with the sex
urge that some information should be given on this
vital subject. By birth control we do not refer to
abortion, or infanticide, but rather to the prevention
of conception. This is a subject to which the best
minds of our day are giving considerable thought
and there is much controversy about it. State and
federal laws have been passed prohibiting any knowl­
edge on this subject being disseminated, or preventives
being marketed and even prescriptions from physi­
cians are made illegal; yet it is a subject of vital in­
terest to the individual, family, nation and the fu­
ture citizen. Some call it race suicide and claim that
it is immoral, unethical, an interference with nature
and disobedience to the direct injunction of the Scrip­
tures. Let us analyze some of these objections, and
we shall choose race suicide first:
[64]
BIRTH CONTROL
The entire animal kingdom is prevented from
over-production by man and the natural laws of the
survival of the fittest. They are subjected to a mor­
tality that prevents them from over-running the
earth, but man, by his departure from nature, has
created a condition whereby, unless there is some way
to limit the increase in population, he will soon find
himself unable to live under the present civilized en­
vironment. It has been estimated that one million
abortions occur in this country every year; that one
hundred thousand are performed annually in New
York City alone. If statistics show this, how many
certainly occur that are never heard of.
It is a common experience for a woman to tell her
physician that she has an abortion every two or three
months or that she has had a dozen miscarriages. The
percentage of deaths due to abortion is much higher
than in full term natural births. There is much
more danger from hemorrhage in abortion and the
dangers from perforation of the uterus, retention of
the adherent placenta and septicemia, or blood poi­
soning, as it is commonly called, is more frequent
than in natural births. Even if women escape these
fatal consequences, they may suffer permanent after­
effects, such as a misplaced uterus, sterility, anemia,
malignant disease or neurosis.
Among women, who are familiar with preventive
[65]
LOVE AND LIFE
measures, abortion is much less frequent, but among
women ignorant of these means, abortion is very
common, so that contraception, or prevention, is a
valuable means of avoiding the dangers of abortion;
for no matter how many, or how severe, are the
laws passed, the abortion doctors flourish, and many
of them have no professional standing, are grossly
ignorant, and have no conception of surgical cleanli­
ness. And the class of patients that patronizes them
are usually the poor and ignorant.
Regardless of their religious affiliations and teach­
ings, their poverty and inability to stand the continu­
ous bearing of children and the lack of means to
support them, drive them to this last resort. The open
discussion of this subject is taboo, but ignorant ideas
are exchanged in the kitchen and on the back door­
step freely.
I once knew of an ignorant midwife who changed
her residence every month, but was kept going prac­
tically day and night performing abortions.
Prevention of conception would be the greatest
force that could be used to do away with abortion,
and that is what birth control means in its proper
sense. Birth control is not race suicide, as history
proves conclusively. It is not numbers that count,
but quality, development and fitness to give and re­
ceive the benefits of life.
[ 6 6 ]
BIRTH CONTROL
During the decadence of the Roman Empire and
on through the dark ages, there were plenty of
people and room for expansion, but for over a thou­
sand years there was no progress in civilization, but
rather a retrogression. Living conditions were haz­
ardous, life was not worth living, and the people
acted as though they fully realized that fact. At
the present time, in densely populated urban dis­
tricts, under modern civilized living conditions, large
families are an impossibility with the great majority.
Who wants to lower his or her standard of living
and the upbringing of children and revert to the liv­
ing conditions of the slums of London or some of
our own large cities or hundreds of examples that
could be cited in older civilizations? Statistics show
that a higher percentage of criminals comes from
large families. This is probably due to unfavorable
prenatal conditions and to the fact that the parents
cannot give that individual attention and training so
necessary in producing a law-abiding citizen.
Memory is claimed to be produced by impressions
upon certain brain cells and the cells in the brain of
a child are more plastic and impressionable than in
the adult. If follows that impressions on the child
are deeper and more lasting and that habits and be­
havior must be acquired very early in childhood to
account for the adeptness with which things are done
[67]
LOVE AND LIFE
later in life. Many other phenomena can only be
accounted for on the same basis. The moral, ethical
and religious aspects of this subject are more or less
interwoven and therefore will now be considered
together.
It seems strange that so many women, who are
against preventives on moral or religious grounds,
do not hesitate to resort to abortion when they see
fit. It seems reasonable that a method, that would
save the woman from being a breeding animal, that
is conducive to married happiness, that relieves the
economic stress, that insures better educational and
cultural advantages to fewer, and consequently bet­
ter, children, should not be considered immoral, un­
ethical or contrary to the dictates of religion. As for
prevention going against the command of the scrip­
tures, where it says to “multiply and replenish the
earth,” or the ancient Hebrew law against the prac­
tice of onanism, one should analyze the question
carefully. It does say replenish; yes, but does that
imply that human beings are to spawn like fish, or
breed like dogs and cats? Some claim that copula­
tion should never be practiced except for the pur­
pose of reproduction. Anyone, who advocates such
ideas, has no knowledge of the sex life of human be­
ings. To put it on a par with the lower animals does
not recognize the higher mental, spiritual, inspiring
[ 68]
BIRTH CONTROL
and sacrificial devotion that is stimulated in human
beings by the sex urge. Who would wish to revert
to the instinct of the animal and be governed thereby?
Onanism is a practice named from an incident re­
lated in the old testament: Genesis, chapter 38,
verses 8, 9 and 10, reading “And Judah said unto
Onan, go in unto thy brother’s wife and perform the
duty of a husband’s brother unto her and raise up
seed to thy brother,” “And Onan knew that the seed
should not be his; and it came to pass, when he went
in unto his brother’s wife, that he spilled it on the
ground, lest he should give seed to his brother.”
“And the thing which he did was evil in the sight
of Jehovah; and he slew him.”
As you have learned from the anatomy and func­
tions of the sex organs, the seed or spermatozoa, of
man, must be placed where it will have the oppor­
tunity to reach and come in contact with the ova of
the woman; therefore, Onan’s act was a plain case of
prevention. If the seed of man is placed in the
vagina of woman, where it is liable to enter the uterus
at once, and eggs, or ova, are being deposited at any
time, and the seed of both man and woman live for
days under favorable conditions, there is no time dur­
ing a woman’s menstrual life that she is not liable to
become pregnant. The practice of onanism, usually
called “withdrawing” to ejaculate, is very common
[69]
LOVE AND LIFE
in this day and age, yet we do not hear about any­
body being struck dead.
While most of the opposition to birth control
comes from the orthodox clergy, not a few have had
the vision to see the service that should be rendered
to humanity, and the courage to express themselves
on a subject so vital to the happiness and welfare of
the race. The enormity of the crime of abortion is
principally due to the endangering of the mother’s
life. Continence between married couples and chas­
tity— which are forms of prevention—are approved
by the clergy.
Coitus interruptus is another practice that will be
discussed later on, as it has an important bearing on
birth control.
The last point to analyze is interference with the
Jaws of nature. Response to nature, or instinct, in
respect to the sex urge, and letting the consequences
follow, would not only be disastrous, but ridiculous
advice to give to civilized man. Birth control is in­
terference with nature, or unnatural, the same as
wearing clothing, false teeth, eye glasses, cooking
food, living in houses, defying gravity by flying in
the air, or inoculating our bodies with serums to pre­
vent disease. Plagues, pestilence, famine, drouths,
tornadoes, wars, and what not, have materially re­
duced the population on the earth in the past. They
[70]
BIRTH CONTROL
used to believe those things were visitations of God,
and many still believe in the “God’s providence”
idea, but that has not prevented modern peoples from
fighting against these destructive forces and devising
ways and means of guarding against them. There
never has been a great invention or useful scientific
discovery but that some God was insulted, and there
were those who cried out, “You are interfering with
nature.” Burbank interfered with nature when, by
tampering with biological laws he produced the seed­
less orange. The Chicago river was made to flow
into the Gulf of Mexico, instead of Lake Michigan.
It makes one feel like crying out, “Oh, consistency,
thou art a jewel.”
Man’s very existence depends upon a continuous
battle with nature, conquering and controlling to
benefit himself. I mention under “Frigidity and
Impotence,” that fear of pregnancy is one of the
causes of dissatisfaction and discord in married life
and should receive some consideration. I also men­
tion that repeated pregnancies incapacitate the woman
for conjugal relations, but if that were all it does to
her we might not give it much consideration. Too
frequently repeated pregnancies, however, break
down the constitution and reduce the chances for
strong, healthy children, besides shortening the life
of the woman and unfitting her for the enjoyment
[71 j
LOVE AND LIFE
of that most desirable part of her lifetime. Woman
has a right to demand fewer and better children,
with more time to recuperate between pregnancies.
Modern civilized woman is not content to be simply
a breeding animal. While I am not allowed to sug­
gest preventive measures, yet it is one of the modern
problems that will have to be solved the same as
many others are being solved to meet the exigencies
of this age.
From a late article in the Red Book Magazine,
entitled “The Moral Revolt,” by Judge Ben B.
Lindsey, I shall quote a few paragraphs on this sub­
ject: “The companionate marriage you are now liv­
ing in is widely practiced by thousands of perfectly
respectable, legally married people today. You and
I both know scores of childless couples. They have,
most of them, decided not to have children and they
have a perfect right to so decide. It is a personal
matter. No stigma of immorality attaches itself to
these marriages or to yours. Society recognizes them
as moral and permissible, but the recognition is tacit.
Society thinks it shocking if anybody suggests that
the regulations governing this kind of marriage be
adapted to the practical necessities of such unions,
and that if this were done the companionate marriage
could be made a powerful instrument, both for social
reform and for human happiness.”
[72]
BIRTH CONTROL
And again, in connection with the laws of most
states allowing practically anyone to marry and beget
children, without let or hindrance, Judge Lindsey
says: “Because of this condition, we continue to build
more and more insane asylums, homes for the feeble­
minded, hospitals for congenital human wrecks, and
prisons for the housing of criminals and other social
incompetents. America is losing at least sixteen bil­
lions of dollars yearly by the economic and social in­
competence of thousands of weaklings and criminals,
many of whom should never have been born} and
these teeming masses go on reproducing their kind
without stint or limit.”
The ideas concerning marriage and divorce at­
tributed to Judge Lindsey have been badly distorted
by the newspapers and the public in general have a
wrong conception of the sexual question he is en­
deavoring to meet. Some say he teaches trial mar­
riages or couples living together platonically or the
dissolution of marriage by either party or by mutual
consent. I understand by reading what he has writ­
ten that he is just as interested in providing for the
welfare of the children as anyone in the land. He
advocates marriage as the best of arrangements. He
recognizes the necessity, under certain circumstances,
of birth control. He is in favor of simplified divorce
laws that are just to both parties, especially childless
[ 7 3 ]
LOVE AND LIFE
couples. He is not in favor of laws requiring two
people to live together when there is no other mutual
bond of union, thus forcing them into misconduct or
to conniving and manufacturing fictitious evidence in
order to obtain a divorce.
It is not a question of morals or religion, or the
right to control nature, but it is a question of eco­
nomic expediency. It is a question of meeting the
sex urge of today. It is a question of providing for
our own development and civilization, and that civili­
zation that will follow us. My object in writing on
this subject is not only to show the relation it has
to our sex problem, but to bring to mind a live issue
that requires an unprejudiced consideration, and to
present a few facts so that one will not be led astray
and be deceived by a lot of foolish notions that are
being circulated about preventive measures for birth
control.
[74]
C h a p t e r VI I I
COITUS INTERRUPTUS
c
V^oitus reservatus, or incomplete coitus (incom­
plete sexual intercourse) is a practice in which one or
both of the parties, designedly, or for some other
cause, do not reach that climax in which a spasm of
pleasure completes the act, which is called an orgasm
in both sexes or ejaculation in the male, because at
that time he ejaculates, or discharges, the semen.
We do not call it ejaculation in the female, as no
discharge has been demonstrated at this time, there
being no secretion from the female, except from the
different glands of the external genitalia, which are
stimulated to extra activity during erotic excitement.
As mentioned in another connection, it frequently
happens that, due to premature ejaculation by the
male, and also to insufficient caressing and time neces­
sary for the female to consummate the act, she never
reaches the climax. Fear of pregnancy and many
[75]
LOVE AND LIFE
other psychic and physical reasons may be given to
account for her lack of response. The consequences
are she does not get that relief from nerve tension,
relaxation and detumescence that naturally follow
an orgasm. This may result in nervous disorders,
chronic congestion of the internal female organs,
with female weakness, disgust, dissatisfaction, hys­
teria, frigidity and many other disturbances.
The willing practice of coitus interruptus is much
more usual with the male. This is done to protect
the female from pregnancy and to save the strength
of the male. There are those, who advocate this
practice in both sexes, for the purpose of promoting
love and virility, claiming that affection for each
other grows and the pleasure is really increased, as
the act can be more often repeated with increasing
ardor and without the participants becoming satiated}
that the secretions, which would be wasted during an
orgasm, are absorbed into the system, rejuvenating
and energizing the entire body and mind. This may
be true to a limited extent and may apply especially
to the male, as the male soon becomes exhausted by
the loss of semen and the deleterious effects of in­
complete coitus are not so pronounced in the male
as in the female. However, if the practice be con­
tinued for any length of time the male suffers from
pain in the testes, congested prostate gland, bladder
[76]
COITUS INTERRUPTUS
irritability and mental disturbances} moreover, it is
a physical impossibility to keep it up for any great
length of time, as nature will relieve the tension by
spontaneous ejaculation during waking or sleeping
hours. Often the over-loaded seminal vesicles will
be relieved while straining at stool or during urina­
tion. Some men become concerned about this and
consult a physician who may tell them they have
a seminal weakness and are losing their manhood.
In women the case is quite different. In the first
place, she does not lose any of her vital secretions}
only her nerve tension is relieved} but the important
fact to consider is detumescence, that is, the internal
genital organs are relieved of their congestion, which,
if unrelieved, have more of a tendency to remain
congested and to produce those profound distur­
bances mentioned above.
It is a well known fact that a passionate female
can repeat the act much more frequently than the
male and often three or four times in rapid succes­
sion without the exhausting effect it has on the male}
in fact, many females require two or three orgasms
in succession really to give them relief. Herein ap­
plies Aristotle’s ancient proverb, “that what is once
well done is twice done.” There may be consider­
able truth in the idea that, in the intimate physical
contact during the act of coitus, there is an inter-
[77]
LOVE AND LIFE
change of magnetism, or something, that has a sooth­
ing, quieting effect upon the nervous system, so that
if control be practiced, the highly erotic passion be­
comes partially quiescent and coitus interruptus
takes place with satisfaction and detumescence in both
parties, altho an orgasm seems more necessary to
produce detumescence in the female than in the
male.
Coitus interruptus may help to solve the problem
of unequal virility between a married couple, in that,
under the law and social usage they are supposed to
supply each other’s sex urge. For the male this looks
like a comparatively easy problem, yet the female
should have some consideration for the age, strength
and capacity of her mate and use common sense and
judgment in her demands. For the female the prob­
lem is not so simple. She has her normal monthly
physiological functions to perform. Her capacity to
respond may be limited by child-bearing, pregnancy,
nursing babies, peculiar cyclic physical variation and
moods and many other factors. It is true she can
perform the act of coitus without any erotic sensa­
tion, but it is not at all certain that this can be done
without injury to herself. The mechanical irritation,
with or without congestion of the more delicate fe­
male sex organs, produced by coitus to satisfy the
excessive, uncontrolled sex urge of some men, pro-
[78]
COITUS INTERRUPTUS
duces profoundly deleterious effects on the female.
Man should use common sense and good judgment
in his demands, as he is the most frequent offender
along this line.
It is a striking paradox that a man always desires
a passionate woman for his paramour, but is usually
unwilling to marry a woman whom he knows to be
highly erotic. Probably he wants a wife he can trust5
or perhaps it is due to the fact that thruout the ages,
man has not treated, or considered, his wife as a
partner in pleasure. His wife was his slave and to
give him pleasure and bear him children. It seems
that the women have “gotten onto” this and are wise
enough not to reveal their true nature. Even among
women, they deny their erotic feelings to one an­
other, for fear of criticism. In her marriage rela­
tions, she represses her feeling, conceals her true
nature from her husband and does not give herself
up to the act of coitus, and therefore, fails to have
an orgasm. Again, not a few women believe, that
if they do not have an orgasm, no conception can
take place, or that it is essential for both to have the
orgasm simultaneously in order to produce preg­
nancy. While this is utter ignorance, and has noth­
ing to do with conception, as anyone can plainly un­
derstand who has read my description of the anat­
omy and functions of the sex organs, still a lot of
[79]
LOVE AND LIFE
women practice coitus interruptus, believing it a
method of birth control.
Coition is usually indulged in for pleasure. It is
not because people consider, or give any thought to
sex expression being essential to their health that
they allow themselves this indulgence, neither is it
practiced for the sole purpose of propagating the
race, notwithstanding all the platitudes about the
sacredness of this act. Few people, if any, have the
temerity to speak about, much less write and ac­
knowledge that coition is practiced mainly because
of the supreme pleasure derived from it. As long
as pleasure is the principal motive and propagation
is a secondary consideration, it will be well to analyze
this phase of the subject. The sexual act is utilized
but rarely for the purpose solely of begetting a
child; in fact, most children are accidents and fre­
quently not wanted.
Sexual intercourse for the purpose of producing
offspring should be carefully planned and prepara­
tions made for it and the welfare of the expected
child should be gravely considered from every angle
before the act is consummated, but, as a rule, not
as much thought is given to it as is given to the act
of buying a new hat. Anyone must acknowledge,
who has had any experience at all or is familiar with
the facts as they exist in actual life, that coition is
[80]
COITUS INTERRUPTUS
indulged in principally for physical sexual pleasure.
Therefore, some thought and knowledge should be
used to make the most of it. Restraint must be
practiced, for over-indulgence in anything soon
causes one to lose the keen enjoyment and apprecia­
tion of it, due to the dulling of the finer sensibilities.
Coitus interruptus is a form of restraint which pre­
serves the vigor that would soon be lost by frequent
orgasms. If the necessity of good health, a keen
sexual appetite, complete reciprocation and mutual
gratification, are considered essential to one of the
principal pleasures of life, self control must be ac­
quired and practiced.
[81]
C h a p t e r I X
PHYSICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL FACTS
N„one will question the fact that the sex urge is
a primary instinct and belongs to the realm of the
emotions, which leads to a further discussion of the
anatomy and physiology of this particular function.
Anatomy classifies two nervous systems according to
their functions and location. One is the cerebro­
spinal, whose cells are in the head and spinal cord,
and whose fibers travel out to the periphery of the
body. This system has two functions: motor to vol­
untary muscles, and sensory, which include the five
senses—taste, smell, hearing, sight and touch. The
other system is called the sympathetic. The cells of
this system are in the lateral chain ganglia, the solar
plexus, hypogastric plexus, pelvic, cardiac, pulmon­
ary and other plexuses and ganglia. The fibers of
this system innervate the vital organs of the body,
such as the heart and blood vessels, the stomach and
[82]
PHYSICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL FACTS
the alimentary tract, all the secretions and excretions
of the body, digestion, assimilation, nutrition and
elimination, in fact, all the automatic processes.
The brain is the center for intellectual deductions,
but the groups of cells in the different plexuses of
the sympathetic system are the centers of emotion.
Fear, anger, grief, joy, hunger, thirst, sex urge and
all emotions and moods, function under the super­
vision of the sympathetic nervous system. There is
a close connection between the cerebrospinal system
and the sympathetic system and the former has some
supervision over the latter, and the latter communi­
cates with the former and affects it in turn, but
they both can act independently of each other. Even
though it is the brain, connected with the cerebro­
spinal system that receives the sorrowful news, one
cannot weep without the sympathetic system.
One may wonder what all this anatomy and physi­
ology has to do with the sex urge. This is the
foundation, the groundwork on which are based some
of the explanations of a few of the phenomena con­
nected with the sex urge.
The sexual organs are one of the places in the
body where the two nervous systems meet and blend,
the place where the spinal system has a very direct
influence over the sympathetic system. Anyone hav­
ing lascivious thoughts may produce erotic feelings,
[ 83]
LOVE AND LIFE
but before one can have erotic feelings, the sympa­
thetic system must function, for it has direct control
over the blood supply of the sexual organs. When
any part of the body actively functions, it becomes
engorged with blood. Take the stomach, for in­
stance, when it is digesting a meal, or the brain,
when it is especially active, or the muscles during
exercise.
When and what is a normal sex urge, as inherited
from probably a million ancestors? In discussing
this subject, I cannot say at just what age this urge
manifests itself in the life of man. Anyone who is
familiar with nursing babes, especially boys, has, no
doubt, noticed their erotic condition. Nearly every­
one has seen little girls, three and four years old,
not realizing what they are doing, practicing mas­
turbation astride their dolls or some other object.
Nearly everyone is familiar with the fact that nurse­
maids often practice masturbation on their charges
to quiet them and get them to go to sleep. At least
we all know that long before boys or girls are
capable of reproducing their kind, they usually have
erotic feelings, whether they understand them or
not. Many people think that a child’s attention
must be called to its sex by some other child or
someone else, in order for it to know anything
sexual. The simple fact is, if any place on your
[84]
PHYSICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL FACTS
body itches, the natural impulse is to scratch it; thus
a child’s attention is called to its sex organs.
Much sentimentality has been associated with sex
expression. People talk about it being a holy com­
munion, the melting of two souls together or the
union of two souls cemented in the bonds of matri­
mony. All of this is very fine and serves its pur­
pose. There is no question but that, associated with
sex expression, directly or indirectly, are some of the
loftiest inspirations and the greatest efforts put forth
by either man or woman. Consider the hundreds of
thousands of men, who devote a lifetime of hard
work and self denial and take all kinds of risks in
order to support a wife and family. Consider an
equal number of women, who subject themselves to
the monotonous routine of household duties, bearing
and rearing babies, even sacrificing the better part of
their lives by wearing themselves out with work and
dying before their time, all for their husband and
children. I would not be one who would say any­
thing against the beautiful things associated with sex,
but the fact of the matter is, sex expression is purely
a physical sensation just like scratching the back or
eating a strawberry short cake, varying only in de­
gree and kind.
It is conceded by all, who have made a study of
this subject, that hunger and the sex urge are two
[85]
LOVE AND LIFE
Kfe. •>
primary instincts which are very closely associated.
The most sensitive of the erotogenic zones, outside
of the sex organs themselves, are the lips and
tongue. The other zones are the nose, lobes of the
ears, breasts, flanks, groins, thighs and buttocks,
which are responsive in the child as well as in the
adult. There is no doubt that the accidental titilla-
tion of different parts of the body stimulates erotic
feelings long before puberty. Heavy, hot diapers, too
much warm clothing, especially about the genitals, too
much bed clothing, condiments and spicy foods, too
much candy and starchy foods, are some of the
things that stimulate a premature and abnormal sex
urge in the child.
Constipation, by the pressure on the internal
genitals of women and on the prostate and seminal
vesicles of men, interferes with circulation and pro­
duces congestion that causes abnormal sexual condi­
tions. The toxins and other poisons absorbed into
the system as the result of constipation and poor
elimination, affect the general health and produce
a particular sensitivity of the nervous system that
causes an abnormal sex urge. If everybody could
be made to realize the part constipation has on the
health and especially its baneful effect on the sexual
functions, more thought and care would be taken in
selecting a diet and establishing habits to prevent
[ 86]
PHYSICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL FACTS
this very common condition. The simple, every-day
act of evacuating the bowels is a much more com­
plicated affair than most persons realize.
The anus is another place that has a double in­
nervation, that is, it has a nerve supply from both
the cerebrospinal and sympathetic systems. At all
times, awake or asleep, without one being aware of
the fact, the sympathetic nerves control the sphincter
muscle that guards the anus and prevents anything
from passing out without one’s volition. But when
one receives a sensation that something must pass out
through the anus, it is the cerebrospinal sensory
nerves that bring the message. Then, before any­
thing can be accomplished, a message must be sent
out over the cerebrospinal motor nerves to relax
the sphincter muscle, also, the sympathetic system
must be notified to let the muscle relax that guards
the anus. At the same time the sympathetic nerves
must be more active in stimulating the muscles
higher up in the rectum in order to force the contents
out.
The common act of blushing is really a compli­
cated affair. One says or does something embarrass­
ing. The fact reaches the cortical areas of the brain
over nerves, all of which belong to the cerebro­
spinal nervous system, but, before one can blush, this
knowledge must be conveyed to the sympathetic sys-
[87]
LOVE AND LIFE
tem that has complete control over the capillaries
that supply blood to the face, neck and ears, in fact,
to all parts of the body, internal or external. The
smell of savory food or seeing a delicious, appetiz-
ingly prepared dish of food will cause the digestive
juices to flow. The seeing and smelling is under the
supervision of the cerebrospinal system, but the
manufacture and flow of the juices are under the
control of the sympathetic system.
The genitalia are innervated by both the cerebro­
spinal and sympathetic nervous systems, but these
two systems must act harmoniously because they af­
fect each other very materially. It is a well known
fact that a person cannot have erotic feelings while
badly frightened. Anything that affects one system
has a pronounced influence on the other. With this
physiological understanding, one is prepared to ap­
ply the knowledge of psychological and physical
stimuli and their influence on the sex urge. The
titillation of the sex organs, accidentally or pur­
posely, will cause erotic feelings and, through the
direct connection with the brain by way of the nerves,
lascivious thoughts are stimulated. A tickling of
any of the other erotogenic areas may affect the
brain and sexual organs in a like manner. Kissing
and titillating the nipples especially act in this way.
Lying on the back, by the pressure and heat to the
[ 88]
PHYSICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL FACTS
spine from where the nerves radiate to the sex or­
gans, causes sexual stimulation, often with erotic
dreams and emissions. Spinal lesions in the same
area will do likewise. The effect that irritation of
the sexual organs produces and the reflex effect on
the mind by pathological conditions of the genitalia
will be considered later.
Puberty is the time when the innate sexual nature
of the individual is developed and sex hunger be­
comes a natural craving.
We know that the usual age, in temperate zones,
when girls are first capable of reproducing their kind
is from ten to fifteen years, and boys from twelve
to sixteen. Under present economic conditions and
the social and civil laws under which we live, the
majority of boys and girls must suppress their nor­
mal sex urge until they are from twenty to thirty
years of age, or else indulge in some unlawful or
abnormal expression. There is a book entitled The
Adolescent Girl, by Phyllis Blanchard. Its philos­
ophy would apply as well to boys. The author of
th is boo k ad v o cates, as a re m e d y f o r th is lo n g p e rio d
of sex repression, a sublimation or transmutation of
this creative urge into some other creative effort,
such as art, literature, music, any line of productive
effort, or even utilizing it in operating a typewriter.
She calls attention to the many useless, harmful,
[89]
LOVE AND LIFE
vicarious ways of using up this creative energy, such
as dancing, petting, dress, society and racing about
seeking thrills in any place where thrills may be
found. The giggling, hysterical girls, the thousands
of neurotic young women, all point to a vicarious or
repressed sex urge. Religious zealots, carried away
with ecstasy, are other examples of vicarious sex
expression.
[ 90]
C h a p t e r X
CHASTITY AND CONTINENCE
T
JLhe question naturally arises, can the sex urge be
repressed without injury to either mind or body?
History is replete with instances of celibacy and
chastity. Chastity was looked upon at one time with
such high regard that it was made an object of re­
ligious rites and became deified. There are hun­
dreds of thousands of nuns, monks and priests and
I think it is fair to concede that a certain percentage
live chaste lives. Yet, there is nothing to show that,
either mentally or physically, they suffer from any
more ills than the rest of humanity. Soldiers, ex­
plorers and men in isolated posts are presumed to
have practiced continence for long periods of time
without any deleterious effects. Even married peo­
ple, on account of sickness of the wife or husband,
or for other very good reasons, practice abstinence
without apparent injury to their health.
[91]
LOVE AND LIFE
On the other hand, we have many authorities,
such as Krafft-Ebing, Freud, and other noted phy­
sicians, clergymen, social workers, philosophers, pro­
fessors and scientific men, who claim that all degrees
of psychoses, neuroses and even pathological changes
are produced by continence. It is not my purpose to
quote a number of authorities and give their opin­
ions, as they differ so radically, some claiming con­
tinence does no harm, while others take the opposite
extreme, and some take a middle ground. The
trouble with those, who have made a study of this
question and have written on the subject, is that they
deal in generalities instead of making a personal
study of different groups of classified cases. They
ignore the frigid, the impotent, the perverts, the
masturbators and various abnormal methods of sex-
expression. Some claim that permanent and com­
plete abstinence is so unnatural that it has really
never existed. If we consider chastity, or sexual
continence, as refraining from all sexual acts, in­
cluding homosexual acts, auto-erotic manifestations,
masturbation, sexually perverse practices, erotic
imagination, voluptuous reveries and the more sub­
tle, vicarious means of sex expression, it is doubtful
if any person ever lived a really chaste life. Even
the frigid or impotent may indulge in some other
form of sex expression.
[92]
CHASTITY AND CONTINENCE
As the need for chastity is becoming more urgent
in many cases, and it is forced by circumstances on
some, the importance of this subject cannot be over­
estimated. Chastity and virtue are two very loosely
used words. In the usual sense in which they are
employed they apply to one who has never indulged
in unlawful or abnormal sex expression. Virtue has
another meaning, as it is often applied to honesty,
truthfulness, industry, etc. Many women call them­
selves virtuous, when on account of their frigidity,
they have never had any sexual temptation. Yet
they pride themselves on their virtue and are the
first to condemn and scandalize those who fall from
grace, when, probably, if they had had the same
temptation to meet, they would have fallen also.
As regards chastity, so far as it relates to ab­
stinence from normal sex expression, the weight of
opinion is that some, who are especially fitted by
heredity and training, can practice it without injury
to either mind or body. But the majority, on ac­
count of heredity, constitutional physical require­
ments, or mental make-up, especially the neurotic
type and those who are anxious, worried and fearful
of the results of chastity are almost sure to suffer
both mentally and physically to some degree, and
are also led into indulging in some abnormal prac­
tices which often lead to excesses.
[93]
LOVE AND LIFE
As to excesses in abnormal sex expression, anyone
can probably recall reading some booklet or pam­
phlet greatly exaggerating the evil results of mastur­
bation. The physical and mental ills, even to in­
sanity, are elaborated upon until, should one break
the hard and fast rule of chastity, or have an emis­
sion or erotic dream, one is ready to seek a phy­
sician, and usually that is just what the booklet was
put out for. It is not unusual for a perfectly nor­
mal, healthy, young man to have an emission, with
or without an erotic dream, once a month, once a
week, or even oftener, without any deleterious ef­
fect on his health.
Excessive coition between married couples is prob­
ably indulged in as often, and with just as disastrous
results, as are caused by abnormal methods, but
in either case, a true confession on this subject is so
hard to obtain that few cases become known, and the
excesses of the married persons are condoned, while
those indulging in abnormal practices are censured.
I would not have anyone get the impression that I
am trying to excuse, or make light of, abnormal
practices, as every act in life, not in strict accordance
with the laws of nature, will surely bring a penalty,
and there is plenty of evidence of wrecked lives
through the practice of abnormal sex expression.
Havelock Ellis devoted seventy-three pages to
[94]
CHASTITY AND CONTINENCE
chastity and continence in his Studies in the Psy­
chology of Sex, Volume VI.
Continence is considered by some as being very
temperate or only occasionally allowing oneself to
indulge in sexual gratification, while others consider
it to be complete abstinence. There are many per­
sons who, probably due to some defect or on account
of their peculiar nature, would suffer no ill effects
nor would it be any special hardship for them to
practice continence. Yet one comes in contact with
thousands of persons suffering from all degrees of
abnormality, from slight nervous afflictions to in­
sanity, due to sexual repression.
It is on record that St. Francis went out into the
desert and subjected himself to all kinds of hard­
ships such as living on scanty, uncooked, non-stimu­
lating food, wearing practically no clothing, being
burned almost black by the sun in the daytime and
half frozen by chilly winds at night, yet he was tor­
tured by the fires of concupiscence and mortified by
dreaming at night that he was back in his native city
of Assisi lying with nude women. Many other in­
stances could be cited to prove that it is very diffi­
cult, if not impossible, to repress completely the
sex urge, yet through ascetic practices much has been
accomplished in this direction.
The other question to be considered is, can that
[95]
LOVE AND LIFE
natural creative energy, as expressed in the sex urge,
be sublimated and used up in some other way? Phys­
ical exercise to the point of considerable fatigue, no
doubt, greatly reduces the desire for sex expression,
as proved experimentally in animals and man. Great
mental effort does not, as a rule, seem to diminish
the sex urge. In fact, mental workers, and espe­
cially some of our greatest geniuses, noted musicians,
artists, authors, actors, statesmen, poets, etc., have
been highly erotic individuals. It seems, from the
meager information available, that during the time
of sustained, great mental effort, the sex urge is
diminished, but during the rest periods between such
mental efforts is the time when the sex urge becomes
active, and the higher and finer the organization of
the nervous system and development of the mental­
ity, the more sensitive the individual becomes to
psychological influences and physical sensations.
Heavy work and complete preoccupation of the
mind is, without doubt, a valuable means of con­
trolling the sex urge. A moderate amount of sex
expression may reduce mental activity, but the pre­
ponderance of evidence would seem to prove it con­
ducive to creative effort, rather than otherwise.
Through the ages love has been the stimulus in the
production of the world’s greatest masterpieces.
The repression of the sex urge is like suppressing
[96]
CHASTITY AND CONTINENCE
any other fundamental emotion. It may be kept up
for a time, but it is liable to break out of control at
any moment, and, as in other emotions, go beyond
the bounds of reason.
I spoke of dancing in connection with the manner
in which vicarious expression finds vent. Many as­
sert that dancing is a means of exciting the sex urge.
In my position as a physician I have had ample op­
portunity of questioning all ages and both sexes, as
to their sex experiences while dancing. I have ques­
tioned some of a highly erotic nature, but they have
all testified that never once was the sex urge
aroused, while actually dancing and keeping time to
the music. A few stated that by concentrating on
the subject, hugging their partners, and not paying
any attention to keeping time to the music, erotic
feelings were slightly aroused. As a means of find­
ing relief by sublimated expression, probably the ex­
ercise and fatigue, due to the dancing, has more to
do with it than anything else, although there is a
considerable amount of evidence pointing to the fact
that there is a magnetic exchange between two per­
sons of opposite sex when they come into contact.
There are many who testify that to look at or hold
conversation with one of the opposite sex, gives them
more or less sexual relief and satisfaction. But this
is dealing in subtilties which only apply to persons
[97]
LOVE AND LIFE
probably verging on the border line of the abnor­
mal. Much could be said about the magnetic, or
some peculiar influence, that attracts or repels two
people, either of the same or opposite sex. It is a
common experience for a person to meet someone to
whom he or she immediately becomes attracted, or
a strong antipathy is aroused, without rhyme or
reason, in either case. The person may be beautiful,
educated, refined and of good character, but for
some reason one has a feeling of repulsion, or the
person may not have any of the above mentioned
charms and, in fact, may be the very opposite, yet
one is attracted. This same peculiarity holds true in
regard to sexual stimulation. Some people stimulate
each other, while others have the opposite effect.
This “something” certainly has more to do with
sexual compatibility or incompatibility than most
people realize, yet it has practically never been given
adequate consideration in reference to the sex urge
and in choosing a mate.
[98]
C h a p t e r X I
NORMAL SEX URGE
w . is really a normal sex urge is hard to de­
termine, as there are no data on which to base judg­
ment. There are so few normal people living under
nature’s requirements, uninfluenced by pathology, or
aberrant psychology, that we have no rule by which
to go. There have been many opinions handed
down to us by sages, philosophers, religious teachers,
physicians, kings and queens, but they vary in their
estimates of how often coitus should be indulged in
from six times a day to once a month. The majority,
however, agree that once or twice per week should
satisfy the sex urge of the average person. The
testimony of those, who have had practical experi­
ence, would teach us that there is no such thing as
satisfying the sex urge unless indulged in to the
point of satiation and that satisfaction is only transi­
tory. Their experience teaches us that the more sex
[99]
LOVE AND LIFE
expression is indulged in, the more stimulated is the
sex urge, and only when persons have exhausted
their strength and vitality does it cease, and then the
psychological influences continue to function to their
further destruction, so that the regulation of this
delicate and particular question must be controlled
by intelligence and good judgment based upon many
factors.
Much depends upon the age and vigor of the in­
dividual. Males are usually most amorous from the
age of seventeen or eighteen to twenty-eight or
thirty. Females are more variable in their amorous
age, as some become very much so the first year or so
after they begin to menstruate, then become com­
paratively quiescent until twenty-five or thirty years
of age. In fact, women are very variable as to their
sex urge, it coming on some quite late in life, even
after their menstrual periods have ceased. The age
at which over-indulgence in sex expression, whether
it be normal or abnormal, does the most harm is
early in life, before the individual has reached full
maturity. Most of the cases of impotence occurring
at thirty to forty years of age, have a history of
early excesses. Also cases of constitutional diseases,
such as dementia praecox, neurasthenia, chlorosis,
melancholia, depressional insanity and tuberculosis,
occurring at from twenty to thirty years of age, show
[100]
NORMAL SEX URGE
a high percentage of early sex excesses. Therefore,
the control and limitation of sex expression are highly
imperative during adolescence and early manhood
and womanhood— right at the time when the urge
is strongest.
What is normal in one individual is excessive in
another. This applies to the female as well as the
male. Excesses in abnormal practices of sex expres­
sion lead to more dangerous consequences than in
natural coitus, but that does not minimize the danger
of excessive natural intercourse. The practice of
onanism, coitus interruptus, wearing French “safes”
or rubber “raincoats,” as they are commonly called,
is no more dangerous or injurious to the health of
the male than natural coition provided it is not in­
dulged in excessively. It is acknowledged that ab­
normal practices are more liable to be injurious and
lead to excesses, due to the extra physical and men­
tal stimulation necessary to bring about an orgasm,
than is natural intercourse. The psychic processes
indulged in at this time are exaggerated imaginings
which tend to become more and more unnatural and
lead to excesses and perversions. Excesses in the
natural method of sex expression are probably-just
as common as in unnatural methods, due to the gen­
eral ignorance on this subject, and the fact that the
many difficulties and restrictions drive people to
[101]
LOVE AND LIFE
think and devise ways and means to satisfy their
sex urge. It is a recognized fact that when anything
one wants is difficult to obtain, special effort is always
made to overcome the difficulty, and when obtained,
over-indulgence is the rule.
The Polynesians, many uncivilized and semi-
civilized peoples, the American Indian in his native
state, and many examples in history where great
freedom was allowed between the sexes proved over-
indulgence to be very rare.
The founder of one of the world’s great religions
based it upon three fundamental precepts— Seek not
physical pleasure nor satisfaction therein, laying spe­
cial stress on sensuality and appetite. Seek not nor
desire immortality. Seek not nor desire personal
possessions. I refer to the philosophy, called re­
ligion, founded by Buddha. Another philosopher
said: “H e who would eat much should eat little,”
meaning that he would live longer and in the end
eat more. I would say: he who would enjoy much
should enjoy little, thereby keeping the desire
strong and the sensibilities keen and not satiated.
I am reminded of an actual case that came to my
notice many years ago, which I shall give to illus­
trate the point. A young man, whom we shall call
George, was the son of a multi-millionaire father.
George was brought up with all the advantages and
[102]
NORMAL SEX URGE
in the very best environment it was possible to have.
At twenty-four years of age he graduated from Har­
vard with honors. George had always been a good,
steady, studious, athletic chap, who had taken his
only pleasure and recreation in good, clean sports,
so that at twenty-four years of age he stood six feet,
broad shouldered and as fine a specimen of hand­
some, well-developed, physical and mental manhood
as one could find in America. George went to his
father and said to him: “I am now ready to go into
business.” But his father said: “George, you have
been a mighty fine boy, sticking strictly to your
studies and developing your mind and body for your
life’s work, and I think I owe it to you and you owe
it to yourself to have a vacation before you settle
down into harness and become absorbed and worried
with business cares. The chances are, when you once
become burdened with the cares of business, you will
never have the time and freedom to take a real vaca­
tion as you have now; besides, you ought to see
some of the world and be broadened and experi­
enced by traveling about and seeing what is going on
in the world, and I propose that you take a two
years’ vacation before settling down to learn the
business.” So it was arranged for George to take
a two years’ vacation with a greatly increased allow­
ance, so he could go where he pleased and do as he
[ 103]
LOVE AND LIFE
liked. George started out to have a good time; and
he did not miss anything, as I had it from his own
lips. There was hardly a thrill or pleasure offered
on the face of the earth that he did not experience
to his heart’s content. H e told me that another
young man and himself once hired a high-class
sporting house on the north side in Chicago for one
week. In this sporting house were kept fifteen of
the choicest girls for their exclusive entertainment.
Women and wine were indulged in to the limit of
human endurance. Of course, this was in pre-
Volstead days. When the two years were up, George
was having such a good time that he was not quite
ready to settle down in business, and he continued
his vacation a couple of years more. What was the
outcome? The result was that George landed in the
Battle Creek Sanitarium a total physical and mental
wreck, when he was but twenty-eight years old. His
heart only made a weak flutter and his nervous sys­
tem was “all shot to pieces”. H e demanded male
nurses, as he could not bear the sight of a woman.
The finest music drove him to distraction. No one,
who has not suffered from nerves, can appreciate his
constant agony. In about six months George died.
Here was a man who, at the age of twenty-four,
had a mind and body that should have lasted him
through a life of productivity and usefulness until
[104]
NORMAL SEX URGE
he was at least eighty-four years of age. But before
he was twenty-nine he was through. If he had
spread his pleasures out, he no doubt would have en­
joyed very much more than he did in his short
existence.
Those who have read Dorian Gray, supposed to
be the “inside” on the life and philosophy of Oscar
Wilde, must realize that it was a merry life and a
short one which he advocated. Wilde’s philosophy
was that the more sensations one had in the way of
reactions to stimuli the more one lived. Contrast
the teachings of Swedenborg, who probably got his
ideas from India, which advocate that man’s main
effort, while on this earth, is to reduce all sensations,
mental and physical, pleasurable or disagreeable, to
the minimum. These are examples of the extremes,
and there is, no doubt, a safe middle ground to pur­
sue, where temperance in all things is the best policy.
Saturating the mind with fiction, romance and ob­
scene literature fires the imagination to erotic ideas,
which stimulate the sexual desires, so that early and
excessive gratification is indulged in. Sedentary
habits, not getting out into the open and taking
physical exercise and occupying the mind with work
or clean sports, have a marked influence in pro­
ducing abnormal sexual desires. Practically every
case cited in literature of abnormal sexual indulgence
[ 105]
LOVE AND LIFE
and perversion gives a history of a childhood char­
acterized by reticence, bashfulness, an unwillingness
to get out and play games with their own sex, a lack
of physical development, a lack of interest in things
that should occupy the mind of a child and a desire
to lay around and read fiction. They were dreamy
and lived in an unreal world. Many parents think,
because their children are fond of books, it is a good
sign and promises a great future. It depends largely
on the nature of the books they are fond of, and if
they are interested in healthful play and in what
other things they are interested.
Any artificial, purposeful stimulation of the sex
urge should be avoided. Abnormal stimulating in­
fluences, due to pathology, will be discussed later.
We do know that much depends upon heredity, a
born constitutional strength and virility, the develop­
ment and balance of the endocrine glands, diet, ex­
ercise, habits of life, occupation and general health.
[106]
C h a p t e r X I I
SEX PATHOLOGY
l a considering the pathological aspect of the sex
urge, I may say that the public in general knows
nothing, and most physicians know very little, about
it. Even Krafft-Ebing in his exhaustive work on
Psychopathia Sexualis, overlooks the pathology of
the many cases reviewed. Havelock Ellis, in his
voluminous research, as published in his Studies in
the Psychology of Sex, filling six volumes of from
five to six hundred pages each, does not mention the
common, frequent pathology found in practically
every case of abnormal sex urge. H e mentions al­
most all other reflex physical stimuli, from odors to
the common practice of titillation by kissing, yet he
did not recognize or appreciate the most common
excitants, which are the pathology of the sex organs
themselves.
To come to the point, just what are the patholog-
[ 107]
LOVE AND LIFE
ical conditions that produce an abnormal sex-urge?
In brief, it is nerve irritation; and the principal ab­
normal conditions that irritate the sex organs are the
long, tight foreskin that covers the glans penis in
man, and the clitoris in woman, keeping the part too
warm, too delicate to touch, not allowing the natural
secretions to escape, binding down and irritating
mechanically the sensitive nerve terminals} a tight
frenum, the long, pendulous labia minora in women,
pulling on the clitoris and being rubbed and irritated
themselves} the mouth of the urethra, which is often
too tight in men, preventing a free urinary flow, ir­
ritating the sensitive nerves of the urethra, and in
women, besides being too tight, there are often papil­
lary growths and carunculae, irritating the mouth
of the urethra. Also, in women, the entrance to the
vagina is often continually irritated by an abnormal
hymen, and papillary growths. The mouth of the
uterus is also a source of much trouble in women,
being too tight, pinching the delicate nerve terminals
or torn by childbirth and full of scar tissue which
pinches and irritates the nerves.
No one who has not made a study of these con­
ditions and observed the profound and far-reaching
effects over a period of years, has any idea what an
important part pathology of the sex organs has upon
the sex urge. The rectum is recognized by medical
[ 108]
SEX PATHOLOGY
men as the twin of the sexual organs. They both
receive their innervation from the same source, and
when there is irritation in one, there is reflex irrita­
tion in the other. To name all the conditions, in­
cluding constipation, that cause irritation in the rec­
tum, is a subject for consideration in itself.
Man has ever been curious about the anatomy and
functions of the sex organs and has made exhaustive
study and observations on the subject of generation,
and gynecology is a popular specialty among phy­
sicians, but proctology or the diseases of the rectum
and anus is a much neglected subject. It seems ap­
propriate to insert at this point a criticism on the
neglect of this important part of the anatomy:
“APOSTROPHE DEDICATORY”
“To all Proctologie”
“Aesculapius, hail and hear!
“Now, as with thee, our studies Anthropologie
prove:
“The most humiliating thing the genus homo has
to acknowledge is his primae viae.
“Kings, queens, popes, cardinals, presidents, lords,
lordly senators, servile serfs, rich or poor, high or
low— all face the daily humbling necessity of evac­
uating the bowel.
“When and how the bowels move is of greater
[109]
LOVE AND LIFE
concern to the human race than World Courts or
International Felicity.
“Granting now these major premises of the syl­
logism, it is quite proper to ask again, Why should
the spirit of mortal be proud?
“Talk of battles lost for the want of a horseshoe
nail; of thrones that tremble and dynasties that
totter to a fall and of kingdoms bartered for a
woman’s love—what historian has ever dared to tell
that tragic story of the part in race drama played
by Constipation?
“What poet was ever inspired by Muse, M el­
pomene or Terpsichore to chant in proper rhyme the
joy of healthful defecation?
“No man can gain such ecstasy of spirit, so high a
culture or so exalted a sense of morals that he is not,
like Truth, crushed to earth again, when the bowels
move!
“No lady so fair, so beautiful, so pure and good,
though dressed in silks and satins rare, with the aura
of her sweet perfumes about her, the wealth of a
Croesus in her sparkling gems, but ere this sunrise
is followed by another, is humbled to the dust, when
the bowels move!
“Observe the curl of lip, the lurking sneer of
scorn of those self-sanctified ones who read these
lines, prone to forget their ever present anthropoidal
[110]
SEX PATHOLOGY
parts, as if ‘men would be angels and angels would
be gods!’
“And now behold in ages past the wise and
learned sage, with tomes at hand and crucible aglow
to wrest from out the darkness of our souls, the
Truth that ever hideth there.
“Again behold that physician rare who, with
cadaver bare, cared or dared to explore this cavern­
ous highway of life, the frimae viae, while the many
were ever eager, seeking out the secrets of the
gynecologie!
“Forsooth! Were one orifice of the living the
better of another?
“Now all honor to him, who, with every possible
skill, cares for that postern gate and guards well its
proper function. Let all other elite warders of the
human castle preen themselves, the portcullis rise
and fall— the gods know best to whom honor most
is due!
“Oh, Aesculapius, across the centuries we greet
thee.” —Archilocus.
In order that the reader may not think that local
pathology of the sex organs is a discovery of mine,
I refer to the latest work on Orificial Surgery, by
Dawson, who quotes freely from Dr. E. H . Pratt,
who has been teaching and demonstrating, both in
class and clinic, the importance of these local condi-
[111]
LOVE AND LIFE
tions for the last thirty-eight years, and is known
throughout the medical profession as the father of
orificial surgery.
Because I have only briefly mentioned some of
the pathological conditions that affect the sex urge,
one must not think that they are of slight impor­
tance. Consider the fact that at least fifty per cent
of our women are frigid, and a very high percentage
of our men are impotent. One must realize that a
high percentage of our men are satyromaniacs and
a small percentage of our women are nympho­
maniacs and arc being driven to ill health, insanity
and all kinds of indulgence, through excessive sex
urge. The reason I cannot give accurate percent­
ages in the above statements is because there are none
obtainable, but in the medical profession they are
well known facts, nevertheless.
To make it more easily understood just how nerve
irritation produces psychological and physical results,
I shall give a few common, well known physical re­
flexes. Eye strain produces a headache, or stomach
disturbance. Indigestion or constipation will pro­
duce a headache. Every kind of fever or toxic con­
dition produces headache. Uterine irritation causes
nausea, vomiting and pain low down in the lumbar
region of the spine. If I went into detail and named
all the possible physical reflex results, due to irrita-
[112]
SEX PATHOLOGY
tion of the genitalia, that are produced in the body,
it would fill a book and would not interest the ordi­
nary reader. All are familiar with the fact that cer­
tain irritations of the sex organs themselves produce
erotic feelings and turgescence which are reflex
phenomena. A few simple illustrations of psycho­
logical reflexes, produced by physical stimuli, will
make the irritation of the sex organs better under­
stood. If one be hungry or thirsty, one thinks about
something to eat, or drink. If one have pain in any
place in the body, one seeks and thinks about relief.
If one is cold, one thinks about a warm place or
more clothing; so irritation of the sex organs stim­
ulates psychological activity. Professor Angell, in
his psychology, especially stresses the fact that every
physical or psychological stimulus coming in, arouses
a corresponding outgoing reflex impulse, which may
be increased or diminished or modified, in some
way, by cerebration. If we apply these fundamental
physiological and psychological facts to the pa­
thology of the sex organs themselves, we can readily
see how a hooded clitoris, with a short frenum and
long, pendulous labia minora, constantly pulling and
irritating the clitoris, would send in stimuli that
would excite the psychological centers and reflex
physical centers that produce turgescence and erotic
feelings. There is a law in physiology which teaches
[113]
LOVE AND LIFE
that “Over-stimulation produces inhibition”. If ap­
plied to the above illustration, the same irritation, if
severe and long continued, not only would kill all
sensation and produce what, in women, is called
frigidity, but also may continue to affect the mind, or
be manifested in some abnormal, outgoing impulse.
Practically every baby, male or female, should be
circumcised. A thorough examination of the geni­
talia, by one who is competent, should be made
every five years or oftener.
The public is sadly in need of education on the
importance of the part pathology of the sexual or­
gans has in producing, not only an abnormal sex
urge, but many other grave disturbances of the mind
and body. Bed-wetting, and even epilepsy, are
often caused by a tight prepuce irritating the glans
penis or clitoris. Painful menstruation and backache
are very common troubles caused by the pathology
of the female genitalia. The many nervous dis­
eases and far-reaching reflex disturbances, resulting
from pathology of the sex organs, are too numerous
to mention in this condensed chapter on the subject.
If I went into detail and named all the diseases,
symptoms and reflex disturbances caused by the
pathology of the genitalia it would make a text-book
in itself that could be read and understood only by
one with a medical education.
[114]
C h a p t e r X I I I
FRIGIDITY AND IMPOTENCE
Frigidity, in woman, has its corresponding condition
in man, usually called impotence. While there has
been much written on the subject, very little real
scientific investigation has ever been made, or any
proper explanation given to the public. It is first
necessary to understand the physiological changes
that take place in the sex organs to comprehend
frigidity or impotence. There is what is called
erectile tissue in the sex organs, but the main change
that takes place is turgescence, that is, the parts be­
come swollen, due to engorgement with blood, a
non-inflammatory congestion, produced, indirectly,
by either physical or psychic stimuli, which are trans­
mitted to the vaso-motor nerves that control the
blood vessels, as mentioned in a previous chapter.
Detumescence is the word used to designate relief
from turgescence following an orgasm, or when the
[115]
LOVE AND LIFE
stimulus ceases. Should there be incomplete de­
tumescence, when the orgasm does not take place, or
for any other reason, it may become a cause of
frigidity, nymphomania, or some other pathological
change.
In connection with turgescence, erotic feelings are
aroused. It naturally follows that, without tur­
gescence to produce an erection in man, he is impotent
and his erotic feelings are weak, and in woman,
while she can perform the act of coition, she has no
erotic pleasure and is called frigid. As love has such
a profound effect on this function, especially with
women, the lack of love may cause frigidity.
I shall name a few other theories given as causes
of frigidity: an attraction that is called magnetic,
that is, two people must be of opposite magnetic
polarity to be attracted; color of hair and eyes, facial
contour and physical build should be opposites;
wearing corsets that crowd the viscera down on the
pelvic organs in women; high heeled shoes, tilting
the pelvis of women, interfering with the blood
supply and venous drainage; fear of pregnancy, or
disease, or some other fear; teaching which begins
in early childhood and continues on to adult life,
whereby anything concerned with sex has been por­
trayed as low, vulgar, obscene, depraved, unnatural
and a sign of low breeding; repression of the sex
[116]
FRIGIDITY AND IMPOTENCE
urge over a long period of time; the first experience,
often encountered in the bridal chamber, due to the
brutality and ignorance of the husband; wearing in­
sufficient clothing on the extremities, causing the in­
ternal organs to be congested; constipation; coitus
out of season. It is a well known fact that woman
is the only animal that will submit to this act, unless
desire produces acquiescence.
I could continue enumerating theories for several
pages, and they would all have considerable bear­
ing on the subject and some would have very much
to do with it, but I wish to write about something
more definite, that is, the pathological causes of
frigidity. I made an estimate that fifty per cent of
women are frigid. Different authorities estimate
that from twenty-five per cent to seventy-five per
cent are frigid, but the trouble with the statistics
gathered is that they have been mostly obtained by
physicians, and, of course, acquired from patients,
or abnormal individuals, and the uncomplaining are
never studied. It is a subject of sufficient impor­
tance to receive grave consideration, to say the least.
The physical and psychological causes of frigidity
will be considered practically together, as they work
together.
Abnormal methods of sex expression, of which
masturbation is the most frequent, are more gen-
[117]
LOVE AND LIFE
erally practiced than most people think. This prac­
tice begins much earlier in childhood and is con­
tinued much longer in our day, on account of the
necessity for repression of normal expression. The
pathological results of physical irritation and friction
—which are bound to become increasingly excessive
as time goes on— to produce an orgasm, due to the
lack of normal psychological stimuli, produce a
thickening, toughening, even a calloused, condition
of the sex organs themselves, so that they become
incapable of responding to the mild, delicate irrita­
tion of normal coition.
Fridigity in women is being especially considered
here, but many of the causes mentioned will apply
as well to men. Sex expression in women is not so
much of a physical act as it is in menj that is, psy­
chological influences have more to do with it. Love
enters into it more, caressing, and longer preparation
for the act; also, as a rule, more time and loving
during the act of coitus is necessary to produce an
orgasm and detumescence in women. Consequently,
the act is often incomplete and leaves the woman in
a disgusted, unsatisfied condition, that may bring on
frigidity.
The clitoris is the most sensitive part of the sex
organs in women, and if it be completely covered
with the hood, which it very frequently is—not only
[118]
FRIGIDITY AND IMPOTENCE
is it covered, but it is often adherent to the hood—
and if the normal secretion, called smegma, ac­
cumulate under the hood, continually irritating the
clitoris, the normal friction of coition fails to stim­
ulate. Some women are so fat that it is impossible
to touch the clitoris during the act. The clitoris is
composed of erectile tissue, and if it be bound down
by the hood, or held down by a short frenum, it
cannot function normally. Long, pendulous labia
minora, rubbing against each other at every step and
pulling the clitoris down— as they are attached to
the clitoris by the frenum and hood— work together
to produce a condition of frigidity by over-stimula­
tion, or may produce an excessive sex urge, called
nymphomania. The integrity of the vagina is often
destroyed at childbirth, and many women date their
frigidity from shortly after the birth of the first child.
I once read a brochure by the late Dr. George
Still, in which he discusses the most important opera­
tion in the world, from the standpoint of frequency
needed, the chain of ills the condition caused and
from the universal good results following the opera­
tion; and he named perineorrhaphy, or repair of the
perineum which forms the pelvic floor. This, very
frequently, is more or less torn and the sphincter
vaginae muscle destroyed at the birth of the first
child. Irregular, thickened, toughened remnants of
[119]
LOVE AND LIFE
the hymen produce inhibition by their continuous
irritation, or a sensitiveness that precludes all pleas­
ure. The uterus is so commonly in such an inflamed,
congested condition that leucorrhea, called whites, is
very prevalent in women, and a discharge is usually
considered the normal thing.
It stands to reason that a healthy uterus, in a nat­
ural position, is necessary to normal sexual function.
Lack of development of the uterus, called an in­
fantile uterus, is a very common cause of frigidity.
Disease of the fallopian tubes in women produces
an inflamed condition that extends to the ovaries and
uterus, causing frigidity. The ovaries, in women,
and the testes, in men, are well known and recog­
nized as the particular organs in both sexes that pro­
duce an internal secretion that has more to do with
the activity of the sex urge than any other part of
the body. If the ovaries or testes be not properly
developed, or be diseased, which is very commonly
the case, frigidity or impotence is the result.
This brings us to the subject of the endocrine
glands. It is a well known fact that the thyroid
gland has an internal secretion that works conjunc­
tively with the secretions of the ovaries. It is also
well known that the adrenal gland and, probably,
secretions from several glands of internal secretion,
work together with the internal secretions from the
[120]
FRIGIDITY AND IMPOTENCE
genital glands to regulate the sex urge. If there
be defective development of any of these glands or
a lack of balance of these secretions, we have a cause
for frigidity. That is why worn-out roues are hav­
ing monkey glands grafted, or goat serum injected,
into them, to try to rejuvenate their sexual desires.
It is a common practice for physicians to feed women
ovarian substance and thyroid extract after they have
had their diseased ovaries removed by the surgeon.
To go into detail and give a complete description
of the different pathological conditions that are re­
sponsible for frigidity in women and impotence in
men, would fill a book, but I shall point out only a
few more of the common causes. Lack of develop­
ment, or disease, of the testes, as mentioned above,
produces impotence. A long foreskin in man, while
it is not so common as the hooded clitoris in woman,
works in the same manner as in woman. They either,
by the irritation, make them so extremely erotic that
they become impotent by indulging in excessive sex
expression, either by normal or abnormal practices,
that their constitutional vigor is diminished and
sexual vitality used up, or the physiological law of
“over-stimulation produces inhibition,” applies.
There is another law governing stimuli, that af­
fects frigidity and impotence, which has never re­
ceived its due consideration in connection with this
[121]
LOVE AND LIFE
subject. That is, a given stimulus applied to a given
organism, capable of responding with a given re­
action, loses its stimulating effect, or in other words,
the organism fails to respond by acquiring a tolera­
tion for the stimulus. This law applies to psychic,
physical, chemical or any kind of stimuli. We have
hundreds of illustrations in regard to this law in the
giving of drugs. It is a common experience that in
giving a certain drug to a person that the dose must
be constantly increased to produce the desired ef­
fect. A person has been known to acquire a tolera­
tion for arsenic to the point where he could take
enough in one dose to kill a dozen persons not ac­
customed to this drug. Physical stimuli act in the
same manner. The palms of the hands and the soles
of the feet thicken and toughen to withstand the
rough physical abuse to which they are subjected.
The prize fighter goes through a rigorous course of
exercise to harden himself to withstand the effects
of the expected battle. Illustrations of this law
could be cited indefinitely. Psychological action of
this law is illustrated by persons tiring of thegrapho-
phone, the radio, the piano, moving pictures, litera­
ture on one subject, or sports, such as tennis, golf,
baseball, cards or anything else, depending on the
amount indulged in and the person’s psychological
make-up.
[122]
FRIGIDITY AND IMPOTENCE
It stands to reason, if two persons live together
in the intimate relationship of husband and wife,
year after year, for twenty or thirty years, that their
early physical responses will gradually diminish,
even if one did not consider that the sex urge weak­
ens as years advance. When one thinks of the fact
that there are no new or increasing psychological
stimuli to excite the sex urge, it is not astonishing if
women become frigid and men impotent or, at least,
that their responses become greatly reduced.
Another factor, that very likely has much to do
with frigidity and impotence, is magnetism. It has
been proved scientifically that the male and female
are of opposite magnetic polarity in most cases. The
imbalance is more marked between some persons
than it is in others. It is a fundamental character­
istic of electricity and magnetism to become depolar­
ized j that is, they seek a state of equilibrium. The
custom of a married couple sleeping together, which
places their bodies in intimate contact many hours
out of every twenty-four, has a neutralizing effect
on their magnetism. All married persons can testify
to the fact that when they have been separated from
their mates for some time, when they do meet it
seems more like the old honeymoon days. How
much this factor has to do with determining the at­
traction between two persons is hard to estimate.
[123]
LOVE AND LIFE
The effect magnetism has on the responses of mar­
ried couples is probably much greater than most
people realize.
It is a well known fact that acute illnesses, stom­
ach trouble, alcoholism and many constitutional dis­
eases will destroy the sex urge. A short frenum in
man prevents normal erection and, when a long
foreskin is pushed back in the act of coitus, exposing
the delicate and sensitive glans penis— due to being
constantly covered— ejaculation takes place prema­
turely and no satisfaction is possible for the woman.
Consequently, she is left in a state of turgescence,
dissatisfaction and disgust that leads to frigidity.
Bearing children, especially if they are born a year
or two apart, due to the call on the mother’s
strength and vitality, in the development of the
fetus and the drain on the mother from nursing her
babe, and the daily routine of monotonous drudgery,
care and worry of domestic work and looking after
the children, soon use up her creative energy and
she often becomes frigid.
I have given here only a few of the actual physi­
ological, and a brief reference to psychological,
causes of frigidity and impotence. There are many
other physical stimuli that affect the sex urge. I
referred above to odors and it is a well known fact
that certain odors stimulate the sex urge. All ani-
[124]
FRIGIDITY AND IMPOTENCE
mals below man are very sensitive to, and pro­
foundly affected by, sex odors. No doubt, man in
his earlier stage of development, was more sensi­
tive to sex odors than at present, and artificial odors
are resorted to in order to attract the opposite sex
and to excite the sex urge. Musk has long been
known to act in this way and many of the more
popular perfumes of today were introduced into
general use by prostitutes, just like the fashion of
painting the lips scarlet and the cheeks red. Scarlet
lips are supposed to denote passion, and rosy cheeks,
health. Color is another physical stimulus, and red
and magenta are recognized as being the colors that
especially excite the sex urge.
Stekel devotes two volumes to frigidity in women.
Ellis devotes one chapter, and if one should want
more information on the psychological causes, it can
be found in the works of Freud, Jung, Krafft-Ebing
and Boris Sidis.
I have shown how pathology of the sex organs
produces reflex physical impulses that very mate­
rially affect the sex urge 3 also how it stimulates
psychic activity that may increase, diminish or per­
vert the normal urge, but have purposely omitted
going into the vast number of other reflex phe­
nomena, from cold extremities to epilepsy, produced
by irritation of the sex organs.
[125]
C h a p t e r X I V
SEX PERVERSIONS
I t is not my purpose to delve into perversions in
great detail, as there are so many cruel, diverse,
vulgar and peculiar perverse practices that it would
be unfit, if not disgusting, reading for the majority,
and, besides, those who are not already familiar with
these abnormal practices, would not believe that such
methods of sex expression really exist. However,
as a warning, and that one may be on one’s guard
against approaches from sexual perverts, I shall
mention a few of the most common perversions.
Fetichism, as for instance, a lock of hair treasured
by a man, or a flower, pressed in a book by a woman
as a keepsake, is a sentimental custom considered
quite normal. But when a man has an obsession for
a lady’s handkerchief, slipper, hose, undergarments,
or hair, even going so far as to clip hair from girls’
heads and keeping trunks full of it to revel in,
[126]
SEX PERVERSIONS
giving the fetichist sexual gratification, and even
collecting dress shields and smelling them, there­
by obtaining sexual pleasure, we call it perversion.
Sadism is a condition wherein a person punishes
the opposite sex. It is often manifest in children
abusing dumb animals by teasing and tormenting
them. The many different form of cruelty practiced
by this class of perverts are astonishing and prob­
ably account for many of our mysterious, and ap­
parently unmotivated, crimes.
Masochism is the opposite to sadism, in that the
persons punish themselves, or desire someone to
punish them, in various ways in order that they may
obtain sexual gratification.
Flagellation, which is being whipped lightly about
the buttocks, some might think was a form of
masochism, but it is probably a purely physical reflex
phenomenon, as the buttocks are one of the well
known erotogenic zones. Some authorities claim
that spanking children is a bad practice because it is
liable to arouse erotic feelings.
Exhibitionism is a perversion almost everyone is
somewhat familiar with, as, in practically every com­
munity, there is someone frequently exposing the
person. Sometimes it is the genitals, sometimes the
entire body or just parts of the body. One might
think that in this age all women are slightly affected
[127]
LOVE AND LIFE
with this perversion. It does not necessarily follow
that any erotic feelings are aroused by this act and it
may be that they admire their parts so much that
they expose them for others to admire, or it may
be a hereditary sex reversion, which goes back to the
time of hallicism, or sex worship. Most people are
probably familiar with the fact that the beginning of
religion and worship was based upon the physical
mysteries in nature. The sun was deified and wor­
shiped because it caused things to grow; so the sex
organs, which had the mysterious power of genera­
tion, were deified, and they had the God and
Goddess of Love, Eros and Venus. This was not
the idealistic, abstract love poets and novelists rave
about, but a physical love that was sexual. The
legend of St. Patrick driving the snakes out of Ire­
land refers to his driving out cults of phallic wor­
shipers. The images, amulets, charms, decorative
art, and even the architectural designs of churches,
cathedrals and ancient temples indicate that sex wor­
ship was popular for ages.
Homosexuality is sexual attraction between per­
sons of the same sex. This often occurs between
men as well as between women. It may be quite
platonic or it may result in the only sexual satisfac­
tion they ever experience, manifesting itself in
sodomy, fellatio, or cunnilinguism. These disgust-
[128]
SEX PERVERSIONS
ing practices and many more much worse perver­
sions, such as that of “Jack the Ripper,” who cut
open women’s abdomens and reveled in their in­
testines as a means of sexual gratification, can be
found in Krafft-Ebing’s Psycho-pathia Sexualis if
the reader be interested in this bizarre phase of the
subject.
Most writers make a definite distinction between
sexual perversions and homosexuality. A pervert is
one who may have been born a normal individual,
but his anomalous sexual practices are acquired.
Of course, there may be predisposing factors such
as a tainted parentage, defective development, or en­
vironmental conditions that lead to the perversions.
The homosexual practices abnormal methods in the
effort, not only to satisfy the sex urge, but to find
expression in other channels, and in this effort is
often led to extremes in what would be called rad­
ical perversions in a normal individual. To com­
prehend the sexual complex homosexuals have to
contend with, one must understand that they are in­
dividuals who are partially bisexual. A better de­
scription of them would be persons of sexual un­
balance.
The older writers on sexology, such as Krafft-
Ebing, Freud, Forel, Lombroso, Ellis, etc., acquired
their reputation and processes of reasoning and made
[129]
LOVE AND LIFE
their deductions before the vast amount of experi­
mental and clinical information concerning the func­
tions of the endocrines was so well known $ conse­
quently they only considered the part the gonads
played in these sexual aberrations and did not seem
to understand that other glands of internal secretion,
such as the pituitary, adrenal and thyroid, played
an important role in regulating sexual functions.
They attributed sexual irregularities to hereditary
taint such as epilepsy, syphilis, alcoholism, different
forms of insanity, neurosis, etc., or else to excessive
masturbation or some other irregularity or excess in
the individual’s life, or to sickness, weakness, or bad
environment.
Most everyone is familiar with at least a few per­
sons who are sexually unbalanced. They know boys
and men of the “sissy” type. Sexually they are
classified as males because of their external genitalia,
but mentally and often physically they have many
characteristics which mark them as more feminine
than masculine. Then again, many are classified as
females on account of their genitalia, but have more
masculine characteristics in both body and mind than
feminine. We also have the over-masculine in­
dividuals} these are the brute men. Men who lack
the finer sentiments and artistic tastes. Men with­
out emotional feeling and are cruel and unreason-
[130]
SEX PERVERSIONS
able in their selfish desires. We also have the ef­
feminate women. Women, who are so soft and
delicate, so lacking in self-reliance and physical and
mental stamina that they have no self-dependence.
They are afraid of a cockroach. They are so emo­
tional and oversexed that they are short lived. Then
we have the third type who are sexless. We might
call them the third sex or neuter gender. What is
back of all these types? Or what is the main causa­
tive factors? Some claim that in the early forms of
evolutionary beings, the human was fully bisexual
and capable of reproduction and they point to many
lower forms of life that are fully bisexual or her­
maphroditic, also to the vestigial undeveloped or­
gans as found in both male and female that are
analogous. Others claim that the original created
human was a bisexual super being that has devoluted
into the present male and female. That everyone
has a father and mother would seem sufficient to
account for the fact that they partake of the mental
and physical characteristics of both parents. One
often sees a person with the complexion and looks of
the father, with the build and disposition of the
mother and so we could go on enumerating indefi­
nitely combinations of resemblances back through
several generations of parentage. Homosexuality
or sexual unbalance is probably many times caused
[131]
LOVE AND LIFE
by the offspring being born with the genitalia that
distinguishes their sex, yet their principal character­
istics are of the opposite sex. The importance of the
influence the endocrine glands have, not only on the
sexual life of the individual, but their influence on
growth, development, mentality, muscular activity,
disposition, metabolism, masculinity, femininity and
many other factors that give a person their particular
individuality are being studied and worked out ex­
perimentally. The testes and ovaries have other
much more important functions than developing
spermatozoa and ova. Their internal secretions in
conjunction with the internal secretions of other
endocrine glands such as the adrenal, pituitary, thy­
roid, para-thyroid, Langerhans and others, have much
more important functions to perform in the body,
outside of determining the sexual nature of the in­
dividual, but most all of them have something to do
with that. The lack of development or the unbal­
anced development of the endocrines probably has
much more to do with homosexuality than psy­
chiatry, psychology, heredity or Mendel’s law of
reversion to type. While many cases could be cited
to illustrate variations in homosexuality, I will give
only one, that of a girl who developed into woman­
hood and up to eighteen years of age appeared to be
in all respects a normal female, but, at this age she
[132]
SEX PERVERSIONS
began to develop masculine tendencies. Hair began
to grow on her legs and breasts. She began to
broaden out in the shoulders and became very
muscular and fond of masculine outdoor sports and
pursuits. These masculine characteristics grew on
her up to the age of twenty-three, when it was dis­
covered through laboratory experiments and tests
that she had over-developed suprarenal glands. It
was decided to operate upon her and part of the
glands were removed, whereupon she promptly re­
turned to her feminine character. Many cases in
history could be pointed to showing that some of
our greatest geniuses were sexually unbalanced, also
some of the worst examples of degeneracy, imbecility
and what are generally considered perversions were
caused by the same condition. The near future
promises humane, scientific treatment for these sex­
ually unbalanced unfortunates. Even now much is
being done through endocrine regulation and legally
some recognition is given to these abnormals and
treatment, instead of imprisonment as criminals, is
secured for some of them.
Fixations, or fixed ideas, as I shall now show, are
both physical and psychic. They are not necessarily
perversions, but often lead to perversions. The
two strongest primary instinctive desires are hunger
and sex urge. Probably the first love of the child
[133]
LOVE AND LIFE
is associated with suckling its mother. Not only is
the hunger satisfied, but a soothing effect on the
nerves is produced. As the lips and tongue are
highly erotogenic areas, directly associated with the
sex urge, the warmth and caresses of the mother re­
lieve the tension of physical discomfort and the mag­
netic effect of contact, no doubt, results in a quieting
equilibrium.
The child’s love for the father is aroused as he
caresses it and administers to its welfare and com­
fort, and, later on he is looked to as the provider
of many wants or desires. William J. Fielding says
in his Sex and the hove Life: “There still may
be timid persons who try to deny that there is such
a thing as the sexual life of the child, but those in­
dividuals pay themselves no compliment when they
show a revulsion to that idea. Such an attitude sig­
nifies a negation of biological fact; a denial of or­
derly organic processes; an attempted disavowal of
an inexorable law. Such an attitude is obviously
stupid.”
Dr. Wilhelm Stekel, in his Peculiarities of Be­
havior., stresses the fact that children have serious
love affairs before puberty. Sucking the thumb or
fingers or the common pacifier or stoppered rubber
nipple has a soothing effect on the child’s nervous
erotic tension and is called “auto-erotic” by Have-
[134]
SEX PERVERSIONS
lock Ellis. The continuation of these habits beyond
childhood is probably what leads perverts to fellatio
and cunnilinguism.
In addition to the lips, the lobes of the ears, the
neck, the breasts, the groins, the buttocks and the
inner sides of the thighs are all erotogenic zones,
and the clothing and different titillating methods,
such as kissing, tickling, rubbing and touching the
different parts stimulate the sex urge and lead to
masturbation and other abnormal practices.
The love life of the child is awakened very early
and, as one can now easily comprehend, principally
by stimulation through its erotogenic zones, and, as
the mother and father make the unconscious appeal,
it follows naturally that its early sex love life centers
more or less around them. It has been remarked by
many observers that the female, when casting about
for a mate, looks for an ideal that corresponds to
that ideal which she has formed of her father, an
ideal that had its beginning early in her infancy and
became well developed long before she had reached
the years of mature judgment and critical observa­
tion. On the contrary, the male looks for a pat­
tern that fits his impressions of his mother. These
quite strongly fixed ideals are called fixations and
lead to a great deal of disharmony, disappointment
and disillusionment in the individual’s love life.
[ 135]
LOVE AND LIFE
Most mothers are very indulgent toward their
sons. They “baby” them and make them think they
are the most wonderful boys in the world. Mother’s
cooking was the best ever eaten. Young appetites
are keen, and a keen appetite makes almost any kind
of food taste good. Men expect their wives to
duplicate all these, often imaginary, virtues of their
mothers. Fathers usually favor their daughters.
They protect them and look out for them, so it is
natural for the girl to be impressed with the noble
qualities in her father and expect them in her chosen
mate. Many men and women enter the marriage
state with these fixed ideals and probably others ac­
quired by reading fiction; ideals that are doomed to
be shattered. Many of these fixed ideals may not
be perversions in the sense in which perversion is
usually accepted. That is, they may not be sexual
perversions, but, if they pertain to ideas closely re­
lated to sex, they are very liable to lead to sexual
perversion.
There are many other fixed ideas that have noth­
ing to do with sex. Dana, in his text-book on Nerv­
ous Diseases and Psychiatry, gives numerous cases
illustrating fixed ideas, morbid fears and obsessions.
I knew a patient who was afflicted with a nervous
breakdown. She had the fixed idea that she was in
a deep basin and could not get out. She could not
[136]
SEX PERVERSIONS
get rid of the idea that she must go back and start
all over in order to recover. Even when she was
reasoned with and convinced such a thing was im­
possible, she could not succeed in dispelling her de­
lusions and she did not rid herself of these fixed
ideas until she was almost fully recovered. I have
known a certain lady for many years. She is now
over fifty years old. Even when she was a baby,
her mother could not cover her face with mosquito
netting, though she was asleep and the netting
would not touch her face, but that she would wake
up and cry for air and act as though she were
being smothered. All her life she has been unable
to have her face covered, or sleep, or even stay in a
small compartment of a train or ship, because of a
smothered feeling.
Many persons have fixed ideas, based upon good,
sound reasons, but not a few have ideas that are
really obsessions based on a perversion of logical
reasoning. There is the “single track mind”. That
is, persons who get into a rut in their thinking
processes. They practically exclude everything from
their mind except that which fits in with their hobby
or fixed ideas. Naturally, their conclusions become
perverted.
[137]
C h a p t e r X V
DIET AND SEX
Diet is a very important subject, but I shall con­
sider it only from the standpoint of the special bear­
ing it has on the sex urge. There are advocates of
raw or unfired food5 cooking food several hours;
vegetarian diet; fruit and nut diet; raw meat diet;
milk diet; one meal a day; two meals a day; seven
meals a day; fasting from one day a week to three
weeks and all kinds of special diets for getting thin
or taking on flesh or for some other express pur­
pose; therefore, I shall attempt to give briefly some
general information that can be utilized by almost
everybody, realizing as I do so, that most people eat
what they like and what they can easily procure,
whether it be best for them or not, unless they be­
come greatly concerned about their health or for
some other very good reason, they are thoroughly
convinced of the need for a change in their dietary
[138]
DIET AND SEX
habits. There has been so much written on this sub­
ject that most persons are confused as to just what
they should eat to obtain the best results. Diet must
consist of certain necessary ingredients to maintain
and promote life to the best advantage. We divide
diet into those compounds conducive to life and
health as follows: proteins, as found in meats, fish
and eggs— the lean part of meat and the white of
eggs being almost pure protein— all vegetables,
cereals and milk contain some protein, but peas,
beans and lentils contain the highest percentage. The
use of proteins in the human body is to build up
its different parts and to replace worn-out, broken-
down portions from day to day.
Fats, as found in meats, fish, milk, cream, butter,
cheese, nuts, oils, lard and suet. The main use for
fats is to produce heat and energy, although a con­
siderable amount of fat is stored up in the tissues,
for emergencies and as a protection.
Carbohydrates, as found in vegetables, cereals and
fruits. All starchy foods belong to the carbohy­
drates; therefore, rice, potatoes, bananas and bolted
flour are almost pure starch. The principal use for
carbohydrates in the body is to furnish heat and
energy. Speaking in calories, fats produce twice as
much heat and energy per ounce as do carbohydrates.
Mineral salts, vitamines, water and roughage are
[139]
LOVE AND LIFE
the other necessary ingredients to make up a com­
plete diet. Condiments and stimulants are not con­
sidered as food, but will be treated later.
The chief requirement of diet is that the different
ingredients should be in proper proportion. It is
absolutely necessary to perfect health for one to live
on a balanced diet, that is, the body needs a certain
amount of proteins, carbohydrates, fats, salts, vita-
mines, roughage and water.
An estimate taken from the army and navy ra­
tions of Europe and America, gives a ratio of pro­
teins one hundred, fats one hundred and carbohy­
drates five hundred, as a well balanced diet. Noth­
ing was said about the mineral salts, vitamines, water
and roughage, which are ingredients of vital impor­
tance in a complete well balanced diet.
“A man is made of what he eats,” holds true to­
day as ever. Herein is applied the bearing that diet
has on the sex urge. To be normal sexually a per­
son must be healthy.
The Americans have been called a nation of neurot­
ics, because they do not drink enough water. They
are also notable for the amount of physic they take.
Constipation is the result of not drinking enough
water and not eating sufficient roughage. The ma­
jority of cathartics act by irritating the mucous mem­
brane of the intestines and, as the bowels, especially
[ 140]
DIET AND SEX
the rectal part, and the genital organs are twins, the
genitalia are irritated directly and reflexively by tak­
ing cathartics.
Most people are familiar with the fact that a
pregnant woman must be careful about taking physic,
because of the danger that it is liable to produce
abortion. Few realize the part constipation and
cathartics play in producing abnormal sexual condi­
tions. If people drank enough water and ate suffi­
cient roughage with their food, constipation and
cathartics would be unknown.
The outer coverings of cereals, nuts and fruits
are where the salts and vitamines are stored, and it
is also these parts that furnish the principal amount
of roughage. The food refining processes of modern
times practically discard these very necessary con­
tents. Extensive experiments on animals with vita-
mines have demonstrated that this ingredient in food
has a profound effect on strength, growth and sexual
virility. There is more than a sufficiency of vita-
mines in food, as it comes from nature, but the re­
fining and preparation processes destroy or discard
this very important ingredient. The same could be
said of the valuable salts and roughage.
Food, taken too frequently or in too large a quan­
tity or in a concentrated form, cannot be digested
and assimilated} consequently, it either undergoes
[141]
LOVE AND LIFE
putrefaction or fermentation. Meats putrefy, pro­
ducing end-products, that are poisonous and very
detrimental to the health, but are especially irritat­
ing and stimulating to the sex urge. Starchy foods
ferment, making end-products, that are decidedly
injurious to one’s health, besides being irritating to
the sex functions. The process of fermentation con­
verts starch into sugar and then into alcohol. The
effect that alcohols and condiments have upon the
sex urge should be better known. Drinks, contain­
ing a small amount of alcohol, like wine, have been
known for ages to stimulate sex activity, but an ex­
cessive amount of alcoholic drink or much, taken in
a concentrated form, deadens the sensibilities and
consequently lessens— if not entirely inhibits— the
natural response to normal stimulation.
Spices, catchups, peppers and other hot sauces and
condiments, by their irritating effect upon the genito­
urinary tract, are especially stimulating to the sex
organs. Everyone should be familiar with the fact
that giving children too much candy, spicy food, tea,
coffee, alcoholic drinks or very much meat is a bad
practice on account of the irritating and stimulating
effect it has upon the nervous system and especially
upon the sex urge.
A person’s health and vigor depend more upon
diet than upon any other one thing, consequently, a
[ 1+2 ]
DIET AND SEX
diet that maintains perfect health is essential to nor­
mal sexual function. A diet that is irritating or
whose end-products are excitants of the sex urge,
must obviously be avoided.
The many ills that are directly the result of diet­
ary indiscretions, are fully recognized by the medical
profession, but the direct and indirect effect on the
sex urge is appreciated by very few. Literature
abounds with accounts of ascetic practices, describing
how persons have lived on a meager, bland, simple
and non-irritating diet, to overcome the physical
craving of the sex urge. If one be weak in the sex
urge, normal health must be established and ex­
hausted resources regained} and diet is the principal
recourse. The idea of giving aphrodisiacs to stimu­
late the sexual impulse is like whipping a tired horse
to make him pull. It may make him exert his last
particle of strength, but leaves him in a more ex­
hausted condition than before. Men and women
who have extracts from the gonads or the gonads
themselves implanted in their bodies to restore their
jaded energies may receive a temporary stimulus,
but when this borrowed power is used up they are
left in a worse condition than ever. Tying off the
vas deferens for the purpose of conserving the vital
fluid of man and to restore or prolong the sexual
energy may have some value, but there is not yet
[143]
LOVE AND LIFE
enough evidence fully to establish this procedure.
John D. Rockefeller was expected to die thirty
years ago, due to indigestion, but the other day he
celebrated his eighty-eighth birthday, hale and
hearty, simply because he had followed a strict diet­
ary regimen.
It is not within the purview of this chapter to go
into great detail and outline special diets to obtain
particular results.
The American people eat too much meat, and, if
a person will eat meat, it should be eaten sparingly
and with a large amount of green, leafy vegetables,
containing sufficient roughage to leave a residue, be­
cause meats are almost completely assimilated.
Avoid eating large quantities of starchy foods,
found in carbohydrates, such as refined white flour
bread and concentrated starches, as potatoes, bananas,
rice, etc., because starches are converted into sugars
and should be completely utilized by the body.
Sugars, candies and sweets should be limited for the
same reason. The natural sugars, as found in fruits
and honey, can be eaten freely, but vegetables and
cereals of a high starch content should be eaten with
plenty of roughage, so that there will be a residue
left for the bowels to act upon and to produce evac­
uation.
All living things soon perish without water and,
[144]
DIET AND SEX
like air, water is comparatively free and the most im­
portant compound to consider in connection with diet.
Food must be liquefied in order to be digested and
assimilated. Sixty per cent of the body is water.
All the tissues of the body are aquatic. Water forms
the chief ingredient of all the fluids of the body and
maintains their proper degree of dilution. Drinking
plenty of pure water daily is not only necessary to
health, but is imperative if one wishes to maintain
that high state of efficiency and normality conducive
to productivity and the full enjoyment of life that
all should strive to attain.
[1451
C h a p t e r X V I
SEX AND CRIME
A
crime is an act or omission punishable by a law
or laws enacted to govern the conduct of a social
group. Inherently any man or woman is a potential
criminal, which is manifested by the natural impulses
during infancy of crying for what is desired and,
later on, by grasping or fighting and screaming to
obtain it, because, not being familiar with man-made
laws, children act from the fundamental law of the
instinctive urge.
Behavior in conformity to modern rules of con­
duct is artificial. The rules have been gradually
evolved during thousands of years by the experience
of peoples associated together.
There are two principal forces that cause an in­
dividual to act. One is the internal or instinctive,
which is ever seeking a means of expression. The
other is external circumstances, which cause the first,
[146]
SEX AND CRIME
the instinctive, to be repressed, exaggerated or modi­
fied. The criminal’s ultimate purpose is prompted
by the same instinctive urges by which all action is
stimulated. It may be modified by reason and ex­
ternal circumstances, but the ultimate motive re­
mains the same, although the proximate motives, to
gain the desired end, change to meet the situation.
Men have murdered for gold, not for its intrinsic
value, but for what gold will procure. It is not
usual for a man to kill another for a drink of water,
yet it has been done in cases where a drink of water
meant life or death.
There are only a few instinctive desires, but they
stimulate many secondary desires which are used as
a means to an end. Selfishness, envy and jealousy
are closely related emotions. It is selfishness that
causes a man to over-step the bounds of propriety
and infringe upon the rights and privileges of others.
It is the “I desire” which is the motive within us
that causes us to put forth all effort. If the things
which we desire were not limited in their supply
there could be no selfishness and no crime.
If we consider crime from a basic standpoint we
find that, outside of hunger and the desire to avoid
pain, the sex urge is the main-spring of life. It is
the basic stimulus that drives us to nearly all attain­
ment.
[ 147]
LOVE AND LIFE
The sex urge is a fundamental desire and the
things that go with it and are sought after for full
expression and satisfaction, include certain necessi­
ties and the many luxuries which the ingenuity of
man has invented to satisfy that basic urge.
I read a story some time ago, written by Ella
Wheeler Wilcox, in which she portrayed a civiliza­
tion that had been living under laws that compelled
all criminals, weak-minded persons, sexual degen­
erates, morons, epileptics, etc., to be desexed. The
criminals then needed no iron bars, locks or keys.
They were perfectly satisfied to have three good
meals a day, clothing to wear and a comfortable
place to sleep. They had lost their ambition to steal,
rob, cheat and murder. I fancy such a condition of
contentment would be the logical sequence. Sterili­
zation by castration, especially by compulsion, of all
defectives, not only for the salutary effect on crime,
but for the purpose of preventing the breeding of
more morally or mentally deficient children for the
benefit of future generations is open to serious ob­
jections.
As explained in another chapter, the testes and
ovaries have an important internal secretion, that has
much to do with normal health, and to rob persons
of something so necessary to their well-being would
be very detrimental. To deprive a person of one
[ 148]
SEX AND CRIME
of the chief incentives for living would be at least
questionable. There is another way of rendering a
person sterile, that is much simpler and that is, by
tying off the spermatic cords of men and the fallo­
pian tubes of women, which does no injury to their
health, but possibly conserves it, which is being ad­
vocated by advanced thinkers. This method of pro­
ducing sterility does not rob one of ambition or any
of the sexual enjoyments of life.
It is generally conceded that the greatest stimulus
to man’s ambition is woman. Position, fame and
wealth are sought to lay at woman’s feet; and there
can be no question that woman’s greatest stimulus is
man. Beauty, culture, fine clothes and everything
with which to make herself attractive are the result
of the sex urge. Desire is what leads to crime, and
sex expression is the basic desire of all desires, altho
many times we do not see the connection.
Because the child is uninformed, or misinformed
(for it early receives some kind of information), it
indulges in sex abuses and excesses. The result is
that, by the time it has reached maturity and is
thrown upon its own resources to obtain its desires
and perform its duties as a parent and citizen, life­
long habits have been established which unfit it for
the honest battle of life. The world is full of these
human derelicts. Why do such men as Clarence
[ 149]
LOVE AND LIFE
Darrow defend youthful criminals and men like
Judge Ben Lindsey wish to give them another
chance? Because many of our most learned and ex­
perienced judges are advocating psychopathic exami­
nation and treatment for the majority of our crim­
inals. Why do we have the habitual criminal? A
wrong heredity, improper environment, lack of edu­
cation in the essentials of life and incorrect training,
is the answer. If the pathology of the sex organs
and sex life of our criminals were investigated, the
sex urge would be found to be the fundamental
cause of most of their defections.
If one attributes all the finer, higher, sentimental
and noble ambitions of life to the sex urge, it is rea­
sonable to conclude that the principal incentives to
crime and the baser desires and impulses originate
from the same source. It is generally conceded that
sexual attraction is the basis of love and that love is
the most impelling influence in man’s life, which
spurs him on to all achievement, either good or evil.
Most authors, who write on crime and the crim­
inal, delve into the history of specific cases, going
back several generations. They find their progeni­
tors tainted with syphilis or insanity, epilepsy or mi­
graine headaches, or that they were addicted to al­
cohol, or had some constitutional weakness or con­
genital defect. The personal history of these crim-
[150]
SEX AND CRIME
inals reveals that they were reared in a poor environ­
ment: often they were weak and sickly in childhood
and because of this were petted, pampered and al­
lowed to have their own way. All children are wil­
ful and lie and steal naturally. These authors trace
the criminals’ small infractions of the laws of so­
ciety on to the little crimes, then to the larger ones
as their desires increase and their proclivities develop.
All these things hold true in specific examples and
some of the factors apply in nearly all, but when one
considers that practically all the people from the
fisherman to the magistrate and clergyman, who
lived along the southwest coast of England, were
smugglers at one time, since free trade was estab­
lished one wonders what has become of them. The
same people or their offspring are living there yet,
engaged in honest occupations. They have the
same shaped heads, noses, chins and ears. They
drink liquor, have syphilis, epilepsy, etc. Consider
the Fagin family, who ran a school for pickpockets.
What has become of the light fingers that used to
lift silk handkerchiefs from gentlemen’s pockets,
since the fashion of taking snuff and carrying silk
handkerchiefs in the hip pocket to wipe the irritated
noses has gone out of vogue? What has become of
the pirates of the Spanish main and buccaneers of
the Atlantic coast or the cattle rustlers of the west?
[151]
LOVE AND LIFE
The only conclusions to come to, are that the ulti­
mate motive for crime is always present and that it
is the sex urge. The innate nature of man is to take
what he wants. Temptation and opportunity are the
final necessary prerequisites in the making of crim­
inals. We do not belittle heredity, maldevelopment
or lack of early training, when we make this state­
ment.
That heredity has a marked influence on criminal
tendencies there can be no question, but it does not
necessarily make a criminal, nor is it imperative to
have criminal progenitors to be a criminal. Some
stress criminal heredity to the extreme and exhibit
pictures of noted criminals, showing irregularities of
head, nose, ears, chin, mouth and even peculiarities
of hands and feet to prove their contention. It may
be true that a person born from a line of ancestors
running back several generations given to crime, will
be much more likely to become a criminal than a per­
son born from a line of ancestors who were law-
abiding citizens. In fact, not a few cases have been
traced through several generations in which a large
percentage were criminals. On the other hand, dif­
ferent family histories show a high percentage of
persons who were honorable and attained high posi­
tions in life, but that did not prevent a few members
of those same families from becoming what is called
[152]
SEX AND CRIME
“black sheep”. It is very reasonable to suppose that
a person born with a congenital defect or abnormality
of development, would be much more liable to de­
velop abnormal tendencies than normal.
Nearly every writer on crime refers to the Jukes
family, which is traced through five generations, as
a shining example of hereditary tendency. The
original Jukes was of Holland descent. H e lived in
the mountains in New York state and followed the
life of a hunter and fisherman. H e was known as
a jovial hard drinking man, who periodically did a
little work. H e produced a numerous progeny, legit­
imate and otherwise. No crime was ever fastened
on him and he lived to a ripe old age. Two of his
sons married two of the questionably legitimate
daughters, of which there were five. The history
deals with the offspring of these five daughters and
reached the total of about twelve hundred. Out of
all the men only twenty ever mastered a trade and
ten of those mastered it in a penal institution. Fifty-
two per cent of the women became prostitutes as
against about three and one-half per cent from a
normal population.
In another chapter, I cite the case of a child reared
under the very best conditions becoming a prostitute.
If a child were born of progenitors, who were en­
gaged in crime, and, who naturally lived and sub-
[153]
LOVE AND LIFE
jected their minds and bodies to the abuses that are
usual with that class, there certainly would be a pre­
disposition on the part of the child to be a criminal.
It is like a child born of tubercular parents, in that
some claim consumption is hereditary. Tuberculosis
has never been proved to be directly hereditary, but,
due to the deleterious effect it has upon the parents,
they give birth to children who are constitutionally
weak and of a lowered resistance, which creates a pre­
disposition or liability to contract consumption or any
other disease. Then if one considers the exposure
they are subjected to by living and constantly asso­
ciating with their tubercular parents, it is not to be
wondered at, if they develop the disease. Outside
of actual maldevelopment, all one can really say in
favor of heredity producing the criminal is that it
is a very influential predisposing factor. If all the
criminals, who have developed from law-abiding
parents, were counted and compared with the num­
ber of hereditary criminals, it would prove that there
was some other reasons for crime besides heredity.
Of course, this statement refers to a special heredi­
tary tendency to crime and excludes that universal,
natural impulse to obtain one’s desires without con­
forming to established laws and rules made to govern
the conduct of society.
Sexual abuses, especially in youth, have a debilitat-
[154]
SEX AND CRIME
ing effect on the physical strength of the body, but
their most pernicious effects are upon the will power
and moral stamina. A child, raised without discipline
and but litde training in self-control, is much more
liable to give way to its natural impulses than one
who had received proper training. That is the rea­
son advocates of physical culture lay so much stress
upon physical development. They claim that the
exercise of the will power, necessary in taking sys­
tematic physical culture, not only develops the body
to a state of resistance against many detrimental
cravings, but develops the will power and disciplines
the mind so that it is able to resist many temptations.
As a rule children begin to practice masturbation
in their early childhood, then fornication, and in most
cases various other abnormal sexual practices are in­
dulged in. The first thing a detective will ask when
assigned to run down a criminal is, “What woman or
women does he associate with?” ; if a woman criminal
they want to know what man, or men, she associates
with. Every crime that is committed has a motive.
Desire is the basic motive and sexual gratification,
either directly or indirectly, is usually the principal
one.
It is generally accepted that the two fundamental
instincts are self-preservation and perpetuation. A
man will steal a loaf of bread to appease hunger, at-
[155]
LOVE AND LIFE
taining his ultimate motive directly, or he will work
and earn money with which to buy the bread, attain­
ing his ultimate motive indirectly through several
proximal motives such as seeking work, working, sav­
ing the wages and buying bread. A man will work,
practice self denial and save his wages to maintain a
wife and children. H e may pursue a thousand
proximate desires in order to obtain his ultimate de­
sire which is perpetuation through propagation. The
desire to spend a few hours with his sweetheart will
cause a man to work overtime so that he can get
away from his work, call up a friend to arrange a
party, make telephone calls, purchase suitable rai­
ment, forego some other pleasure and what not, all
proximal motives to gain the ultimate motive, which
is to see his sweetheart.
Occasionally the ultimate motive is apparently lost
sight of, or, in a few instances, becomes completely
side-tracked. As an illustration: a certain man built
up a very large business. No doubt, when he started
out to build up that business his motive was to make
a living and to support a wife and family. But
there came a time when his business had grown to
such proportions that he had amassed more wealth
than he or his family could possibly spend legiti­
mately during their lifetime} yet, he kept right on
working early and late. He was so devoted to his
[156]
SEX AND CRIME
business that he would not take time to buy himself
a suit of clothes. His wife had to do that for him.
H e was first at the office in the morning and the
last to leave at night. One of his intimate associates
reproached him one day and advised that he take a
vacation occasionally and enjoy a little diversion and
recreation. The great man answered him by saying
“You know certain gamblers across the street who
play at the gaming-table all day, all night and all
day again, forgetting to eat or sleep. This game I
am in of making money and building up my business
is just as fascinating and entertaining to me, and
more so, than any recreation you could possibly sug­
gest. I am having a royal good time every minute.
I really begrudge the time I am forced to take to
eat and sleep.” The miser is probably a case of the
motive being completely side-tracked.
It is claimed that ninety-six per cent of all crime
is for financial gain, which is evidently a proximal
motive. If one should consider the circumvention
of laws by big business, the bribery and conniving to
secure favorable legislation and the coercion utilized
in the employment of labor or the forcing of employ­
ers to accede to demands as crimes, the proportion is
much higher.
A person, isolated on a deserted island, could com­
mit no crime. Some claim that all action, including
[157]
LOVE AND LIFE
criminal action, is determinate, due to inherent de­
sires and the peculiar makeup of the individual. Op­
portunity, temptation, circumstances, preparation or
training (or lack of training) is just as necessary.
Bootleggers were rare before the Volstead act went
into effect making the business a profitable one.
Therefore, we have the internal and external ex­
citants to crime.
The doctrine of determinism is a philosophy that
holds that a man does not possess liberty of action
and that volition is determined by motives and an­
tecedent causes. There are many deep students,
among both the medical and legal professions, that
hold to this idea. Even if one should accept as a
fact that man has no free will, that does not relieve
society of its obligation or responsibility of attempt­
ing to mend the predisposing factors or to alter en­
vironmental conditions. Not that society will be able
to remove all temptation or opportunity, but in the
way of training and in providing means for self-
expression, it can do much.
I think it is fair to admit that a criminal is largely
a creature of circumstances which include his an­
cestors and all subsequent influences. Society must
protect itself and all dealings with the criminal
should be on the basis of what is best for him and
society. The idea of punishment is very much be-
[158]
SEX AND CRIME
side the mark. It is becoming more apparent through
the study of criminal anthropology that the criminal
is the problem and not crime: that he needs medical
and re-educational treatment and not punishment.
The common defense of insanity and evidence to
show lack of responsibility and all the contention
over who is responsible and when one is responsible
and moral responsibility and legal responsibility, are
all questions that do not come within the purview of
this book. When an injury or injustice is done to
society it is natural that society should react, but,
that society should react to that injury or injustice
by perpetrating another injury or injustice which
results in no benefit to itself or the criminal, seems
like a poor attempt at a solution of the problem.
That the gratification of the sex urge is the prin­
cipal ultimate motive for crime is well expressed by
a noted literary criminal when he said in substance,
that the criminal looks on the world as an immense
brothal to be desired and as an immense gaol to be
avoided. The criminal is lazy and incapable of sus­
tained effort. H e craves excitement, sexual, alco­
holic, or by drugs the plaudits of the mob or any­
thing to give him a thrill. Crime for excitement
alone, is probably a form of vicarious sexual expres­
sion.
The lack of discipline necessary to train one to obey
[159]
LOVE AND LIFE
the laws governing human conduct and to meet the
hard struggle for existence and to satisfy the desires
according to the rules of the game, drives many into
a fictitious life. The bizarre, the unusual, the mirac­
ulous, the visionary, and the unreal things of life
appeal to the criminal and are plainly revealed by
his actions, reactions, literature and art. Self-justifi­
cation has been attributed to the criminal as an ex­
clusive characteristic, but a little retrospection will
soon convince one that everybody has this very com­
mon tendency.
According to the laws and methods of meting
out justice, the punishment is supposed to be in pro­
portion to the enormity of the crime. This is based
upon the actual crime committed and proved. It
does not take into consideration the possibilities of
a crime that might have been committed if circum­
stances had been slightly altered. Justice has slight
concern for the individual or society on which the
crime is perpetrated.
Criminologists state that prisons are the principal
schools of crime, that the majority of those who have
spent much time in prison become habitual criminals.
There is a large class of crimes and many degrees
of crime, but suppose one considers a crime commit­
ted on the spur of the moment incited either by ex­
treme temptation or by especially provocative cir-
[ 160]
SEX AND CRIME
cumstances. The one who commits the crime never
committed a crime before and did not premeditate
or desire to commit this crime and it is very possible
a like incentive would not happen again in his life­
time. Yet, he is sent to prison where he is placed
in intimate association with hardened criminals, under
whose schooling he soon becomes a confirmed crim­
inal. This is not an unusual instance, but one that
happens every day. No good has been done the one
who has committed the crime and society has not
been benefited; rather, society has created a per­
manent menace to itself. Of late years some reforms
have been inaugurated in penal institutions, in that
they are segregating certain classes of prisoners and
some attempt has been made at the training, educa­
tion and teaching of trades to these unfortunates, so
as to make them useful citizens. Another move in
the right direction is the indeterminate sentence.
Many today are advocating that the only object of
incarcerating anybody is to protect society and to re­
educate and train the non-producer and menace to
others to be a useful law-abiding citizen. Venery,
drug addiction and crime go hand in hand. In the
first place excessive sexual indulgence enervates the
system, then drugs and dope are resorted to in order
to replace natural vigor and exhilaration. They all
work together to break down the resistance in gen-
[161]
LOVE AND LIFE
eral and the next step is crime. Many crimes are
committed under the artificial stimulation of dope.
Unselfishness is necessary where people associate
with one another, and the faculty of giving up to
others and using forbearance and self-restraint must
be exercised. Society is composed of individuals,
analogous to the cells of the body, in that each mem­
ber performs a particular duty, working in harmony
to preserve the integrity of the whole.
The state rests upon society, society rests upon the
family, and the family rests upon the sexual rela­
tionship.
In summing up, we have considered everybody as
potential criminals} that maldevelopment makes the
predisposition to become a criminal much stronger in
some persons than in others} that one of the strong­
est fundamental desires, and consequently the ulti­
mate motive, is most frequently the sex urge} that
environment, which includes early training, tempta­
tion, opportunity and all subsequent experiences and
personal peculiarities of each one’s reasoning processes
are the many factors that produce the criminal.
[162]
C h a p t e r X V I I
THE ART OF LOVE
T ,
X mention in another chapter that love, as dis­
tinguished from friendship, attachment, admiration
or interest, is primarily founded upon the sex urge.
No matter what fine sentiment and romance one may
weave about it or the dreams and aspirations that
may grow out of it, the primary sex instinct is the
stimulus that forms the basis of love. I said in my
introduction that primitive man captured his woman
and there probably was not much sentiment about
it. He, no doubt, was brutally frank in recognizing
and exercising his sex desires. Most of the lower
animals, and especially birds, do considerable court­
ing and love-making. It would be interesting to
relate the different methods adopted by both men
and women to win each other, from the employment
of force to the elaborate wooing of the different
ages: the American Indian chasing and catching
[163]
LOVE AND LIFE
his mate, the troubadour playing and singing under
his lady’s window, Lochinvar carrying his beloved
away on a galloping steed, the child marriages in
China, the international marriages of royalty, the
bartering and selling of brides, the different wiles
and allurements of women to captivate men and the
different technique men use to win their women.
No two women are to be wooed alike and no two
men can be won by the same allurements, and I do
not presume to give rules to govern this fascinating
and vital subject, the art of love. Being an art, it
cannot be confined to rule of thumb. Man has ar­
rived at a state of civilization wherein the practice of
wooing a mate has become almost universal, and the
actual process is left to each individual to work out
for himself or herself. Nobody is capable of teach­
ing anyone else just how to make love. Even if a
certain technique were outlined, it would either not
fit the case or the person advised would not be
capable of carrying it out. If one’s training, educa­
tion and innate intelligence do not guide one in the
right way one is a failure as a lover. As I said in
another passage, most men are ideal lovers and most
women all that could be desired, before marriage,
but it is after marriage that many fail. It is an al­
most invariable fact that those whom one loves most
are those with whom one takes the greatest liberty
[164]
THE ART OF LOVE
and exercises the greatest freedom to criticize. It is
a notable fact that near relatives, especially brothers
and sisters and husband and wife often quarrel, due
to these causes. One would not presume to take the
liberties with a stranger or near friend that one does
with a near relative or loved one. That is the trou­
ble with married couples ; they presume too much
on what they consider their rights and privileges. If
more deference were paid to each other’s rights and
feelings, and especially if that pernicious habit of
criticism were avoided after marriage, much friction
would be obviated. As I said in another connection,
wooing after marriage is just as necessary, for both
the male and female, as it is before marriage 5 and
those nice considerations for each other are just as
important. Especially is this true in regard to the
sex relations.
Taking too much for granted, assuming rights and
privileges that infringe upon that most sane, sound
and fundamental mode of conduct that has been
evolved by the experience of mankind, and has been
enunciated by every great philosopher and religious
teacher in the world’s history, which is, “Do unto
others as you would have them do unto you,” causes
almost all the friction in the world. The wording
may be different by the various teachers, but the
meaning is the same.
[165]
LOVE AND LIFE
The many diverse methods of love-making
throughout the world and history depend upon geo­
graphical location, nationality, race, different social
strata, educational advantages, customs and personal
peculiarities. From a reliable physician, who spent
many years in the Argentine, I have the information
that the men of that country make advances to prac­
tically every woman they meet and, in the language
of the street, “try to make her”. The peculiar thing
about it is that the women of their country take no
offence at these advances, but rather feel compli­
mented; in fact, if a man does not make advances,
the woman thinks he is lacking in manhood or that
she is lacking in appeal.
It has been estimated that seventy per cent of
those who patronize houses of prostitution are mar­
ried men. It is common knowledge that most mar­
ried men do not hesitate to copulate with another
man’s wife. It seems peculiar that a man will con­
sider his wife unfit to live with any longer should
he find out that she has had intercourse with another
man, yet he will consider it his privilege to be inti­
mate with other men’s wives and even prostitutes.
Married women have their peculiarities, in that, al­
though they may be frigid and do not desire to satis­
fy their husband’s sex urge, in many cases absolutely
refusing to do so except in rare instances and under
[166]
THE ART OF LOVE
great pressure, yet they will absolutely refuse to al­
low their husbands to go outside to satisfy their sex
urge, even demanding a divorce if they find them
out. These are simple facts stated for the purpose
of showing the necessity for more knowledge in the
art of love. Social custom has a lot to do with this
peculiar state of affairs. O f course, a man, because
he has married a woman and supports her, feels that
he should have the exclusive right to her. And a
woman, because she is a wife and probably mother
to children, thinks her husband’s favors should not
be shared with another, even though she has no use
for them herself. There are many other factors
that enter into this peculiar state of affairs, but in
reality it should be solved by the adage “Do unto
others as you would have them do unto you.”
Some men never show any love for their wives
except during the heat of passion, which leads the
women to believe that their husbands’ love is noth­
ing but lust. As a rule, men enter marriage more
ignorant of sex matters than do women, so that it is
common saying, “Oh! you cannot understand a
woman.” Most men marry, thinking a woman’s
sex urge is about the same as a man’s, only “more
so,” but this is a very wrong idea.
Under frigidity, I mention woman’s need for
more preparation for sex expression, in the form of
[167]
LOVE AND LIFE
kissing and petting. Balzac says in his Physiologie
du Mariage “a man must never permit himself a
pleasure with his wife which he has not the skill
first to make her desire.” Many men, during their
courting days, are great lovers, but after marriage
they take too much for granted, and as man’s erotic
nature is usually more quickly and easily aroused
than woman’s, they neglect that preliminary loving
so necessary to women, to prepare them for the full
pleasure and gratification of their sex love life. As
a rule, the erotogenic areas on the female are more
sensitive than on the male and she gets more thrill
out of simply being caressed than does man. Her
emotional nature is more pronounced and easily in­
fluenced and as the sex urge is within the realm of
the emotions, the bridal night, with all its mysteries
and crudities, shocks her so that she is often perma­
nently deprived of that pleasure that should be hers.
The rupture of the hymen and the pain attending
the first attempt at coitus by an unskilful husband
make a lasting impression on her mind. A husband
who does not know enough to take time and use skill
in gradually accustoming his bride to coitus is not
fitted for that role. The natural modesty and the
false ideas many women have concerning the sexual
relations cause them to repress their true feelings
and responses. This attitude, if carried to the ex-
[168]
THE ART OF LOVE
treme, deprives them of the possibility of becoming
real mates and enjoying that reciprocal pleasure that
is conducive to mutual satisfaction.
Man needs to be educated to the fact that he
must make love to his wife and take time enough to
secure her response before each repetition of coition.
H e should also remember that sex expression is not
simply a physical performance that can be hurried
like a disagreeable duty, but that the finer graces,
such as love, devotion, sacrificial service, mutual
pleasure, happiness, satisfaction and true union arc
promoted by this intimate relationship. The woman
should not assume the attitude after marrige that
“he is my man,” and all that goes with it, to the
neglect of her personal charms, indispensability and
those finer responses that hold men and continue to
stimulate them to those efforts that make for mutual
happiness. Havelock Ellis devotes seventy pages to
the discussion of “The Art of Love” in his Studies
in the Psychology of Sex. I take the liberty of
quoting a few passages from Ellis: “The knowledge
of women cannot, however, replace the ignorance of
men, but on the contrary, merely serves to reveal it.
For, in love, the man must necessarily take the in­
itiative. It is he who must first unseal the mystery
of the intimacies and audacities which the woman’s
heart may hold. The risk of meeting with even the
[ 169]
LOVE AND LIFE
shadow of contempt or disgust is too serious to allow
a woman, even a wife, to reveal the secrets of love to
a man who has not shown himself to be an initiate.”
While he admits and everyone must admit, who
is familiar with the facts, that the majority of wom­
en, upon entering the married state, are grossly
ignorant of the actual physical facts of the sex rela­
tionship and all that it implies, yet she is more adept
in the art of love. Again quoting Ellis: “Within
the ordinary range we find, at all events in England,
the large group of men whose knowledge of women
before marriage has been mainly confined to pros­
titutes, and the important and not inconsiderable
group of men who have had no intimate intercourse
with women, their sexual experience having been
confined to masturbation, or other auto-erotic mani­
festations and to flirtation.”
Probably this accounts for the misconception men
have of the sex nature of women. Their only ex­
perience has been with prostitutes, who simulate an
erotic nature for business purposes, and the act is
performed, with an educated art, in a mechanical
hurry j or with some one of the few women whose
erotic nature is so excessive as to drive her to
promiscuity j or in their practice of masturbation,
they stimulate themselves by imagining they are
with a beautiful, highly responsive woman, and so
[170]
THE ART OF LOVE
they become imbued with the idea that all women
are highly erotic. I would stress the importance of
wooing and winning the response of the woman
every time the act of coitus is indulged in, calling at­
tention to the fact that woman’s nature demands lov­
ing attention, and not forgetting the fact that man
is always a baby and appreciates a little loving as
well as the woman. Probably one of the main rea­
sons some women are so successful in holding their
husband’s allegiance is because they never cease to
baby and encourage them. Praise and sugar should
be compared with criticism and vinegar.
In the past, man has usually been the most ag­
gressive and is largely so today. By nature, man is
so constituted, while woman is more passive in her
role, yet woman plays her part in giving encourage­
ment, and in numerous little ways, making herself
attractive and desirable.
Authors who write about the art of love expend
most of their effort and go into great detail about
love-making before marriage. If one considers that
the period of love-making lasts from a few days to
a year or two at most, the importance of this period
becomes insignificant compared with the many years
of married life. That the sex urge is the principal
motive for cultivating the art of love before mar­
riage is generally accepted without question. Most
[171]
LOVE AND LIFE
persons enter marriage filled with romance and the
idealistic life they expect to live. At first the fires
of passion are burning brightly, and while the sex
urge is, in some instances, one of the strongest ties
that binds in marriage, yet there are other factors
that have a much greater importance. When one
considers the reasons given for this in the foregoing
pages, it becomes apparent that admiration, respect,
association, mutual interests, reciprocal assistance, at­
tachment and becoming accustomed to each other
have much more to do with binding two people to­
gether for life than the transitory fire of passion
that leads them to the altar.
Persons become attached to dogs, cats, furniture
and what not. They really love objects. It has
been said “the love of money is the root of all
evil,” and many seem to love money more than
their wives or sweethearts. O f course, love strictly
speaking in the restricted sense, applies to the sexual
attraction. Two old miners, who have gone through
years of hopes and disappointments, constantly shar­
ing each other’s burdens, form an attachment that
makes them inseparable. They may quarrel and not
be on speaking terms for weeks, but each would lay
down his life for the other and separation would be
a calamity.
The many fine points in the art of love are much
[172]
THE ART OF LOVE
more essential after marriage than before. I have
endeavored to stress this fact all along and too much
cannot be given along this line. Those fine con­
siderations for each other, that encouragement each
should give, the respect of each other that should be
cultivated, those responses to one another’s desires
and all that goes to make for a mutual attraction,
should be assiduously developed and nurtured if any
lasting love is to be expected. Much restraint must
be exercised and sexual virility be conserved if last­
ing attraction and pleasure are to be maintained.
The periodic indulgence should be timely and reg­
ulated to meet the exigencies and physical condition
of both parties to the act, and, as I have said before,
due preparation must be made and some skill exer­
cised if two people depending upon each other ex­
clusively for sexual gratification hope to perpetuate
a lasting attraction for each other in this respect.
You marry an ideal, with all the attributes your
imagination considers desirable. After marriage
your eyes are opened and you become acquainted
with the concrete facts. If you do not wish “love
to fly out of the window,” you will train yourself to
shut your eyes to many of these facts and picture
the ideal in your mate, convinced that no one ever
realized the ideal, and that the best that can be done
is to idealize the real.
[173]
C h a p t e r X V I I I
SEX EDUCATION OF YOUTH
P
X sychological influence plays such an important
part in the sex urge that, even in early childhood,
the subject becomes of vital importance. It is gen­
erally conceded that the sex life of the child begins
at birth, with hereditary and prenatal influence back
of it. Volumes have been written about how and
when a child should receive instruction about its sex
life. Without going into detail and quoting exten­
sively, I shall give the consensus of the authorities,
which is, that a child should be taught sexual hygiene
as soon as it is old enough to wash and dress itself,
and that other matters pertaining to sex should be
taught as soon as it begins to ask questions on the
subject, which often occurs at four years of age.
As a rule, this information should be given by the
mother, as she is usually the first to be questioned,
and it should be imparted by simple illustrations that
[174]
SEX EDUCATION OF YOUTH
the child can comprehend. The ridiculous custom
of a parent telling some untruthful fairy tale to the
child, which will be upset the next day by some
dirty-minded school boy or girl, stableman or serv­
ant-girl, or anyone imprudent enough to talk about
such things before children means that all of the in­
nocent, trusting confidence of the child in its parent
will be destroyed in a moment. How many children
are told that the stork brought them, or the doctor
brought them in his bag, or they were found in a
hollow stump, or some other such nonsense? What
a shock to the child’s confidence when it learns that
its parent has lied to it. Years of previous training
and all subsequent influence are lost. The child be­
comes reticent and secretive and ceases to confide in
the parent. The garbled, untrue stories of the sex
functions which they receive from ignorant sources,
often color their whole lives.
Not only should the mysteries of life be taught
by illustrations, but the danger of sex abuses and
diseases should be taught. The mother should be
the teacher, with the assistance of the father, taking
the boy into his confidence as he grows older. As
most mothers are frequently very ignorant about
such matters, they ought to take a special course of
instruction to prepare themselves intelligently to im­
part this delicate knowledge. Even with a proper
[175]
LOVE AND LIFE
knowledge and training in childhood, some will go
wrong on account of pathological influence, aberrant
psychology or heredity. Havelock Ellis cites the
case of a very young baby, born of a prostitute, being
adopted into a highly cultured family, without any­
one except the parents knowing that it was not one
of their own children. This girl received the same
education and training as the other children, but
from early childhood she developed instincts unlike
the other children with whom she was reared. She
lied, she was cruel, she loved to make mischief, she
developed precociously vicious sexual impulses and
finally adopted the occupation of her mother.
The child should be taught by simple illustrations
of things it sees about it in everyday life; for ex­
ample, things growing from a tiny seed. It can be
told that a seed is planted in its mother’s body, and,
when large enough, comes out into the world; or
about the egg being hatched in the nest, explaining
that there is a nest in the mother’s body where the
egg develops into a little baby. It is not necessary
to go into detail at an early age, but these questions
should be answered in a straight-forward, open man­
ner, in a matter-of-fact way, explaining that it is a
subject not to be talked about before everybody, but
a confidential little secret between mother and child.
Later on, as more questions are asked, and the child’s
[176]
SEX EDUCATION OF YOUTH
comprehension is broadened, it is well to go into de­
tail, such as explaining how the father’s seed fertil­
izes the egg of the mother, the same as the pollen
from a flower fertilizes the female part of the flower
to produce seeds of plant life. Not only is it thus
made a subject for clean discussion, but it explains
to the child how its body is blood, flesh and bone of
both its parents, which naturally increases that filial
union and love which is so desirable.
Curiosity is the most valuable gift a child can
possess, and the desire to know, even in the adult,
is the greatest incentive to learning and progress that
we have. The whole system of education should be
revolutionized to some extent and made to fill the
demand, “I want to know”.
The economic system of our times demands team­
work and our educational system is a classified
cramming system, which fits groups for special work,
but there is no educational system to fit boys and
girls to be fathers and mothers. There has been
considerable controversy over whether sex education
should be provided in the schools or be given in the
home. Considering the fact that it should begin
before the child’s school age and that the parents are
the first to be asked questions on this subject, and,
due to the more intimate relationship between par­
ent and child, there ought to be no question as to
[177]
LOVE AND LIFE
who should give this instruction. The objection that
the parents are not familiar themselves, with the
necessary information and are not competent to im­
part it, could be said of most teachers in the schools,
and the only solution is that they should be in­
structed. If boys and girls were instructed in the
practical and physical relationship of married
life, instead of being crammed with so much
fiction, nonsense, romance and idealism connected
with love, that culminates at the altar, and leaves
them with the assumption that they live happily ever
after, it would save many heartaches, failures, and
even tragedies. The foundation and true purpose
of love should be taught openly and freely from the
standpoint of congeniality, physical fitness, eugenics
and social equality. What could be more beautiful
and interesting than explaining the union of the
germ cell of the male with the germ cell of the
female, and how, from the fertilized cell, all life
develops?
In the human, this single cell divides and forms
the morula mass and continues to divide and multi­
ply from the single cell into millions of cells, that
finally change their form and become differentiated
in their character and function, into bone cells,
muscle cells, hair cells, skin cells, etc. And there
are those that become nerve cells and fibers, uniting
[178]
SEX EDUCATION OF YOUTH
and controlling the entire system, similar to a tele­
phone system connecting the different parts of a city.
Explain how the embryo becomes attached to the
wall of the uterus, that furnishes nourishment,
elimination and aeration, until such time as the fetus
is developed to a stage where it is expelled, to begin
a separate existence.
All this wonderful provision for the propagation
of the race and the purposeful utility of the dif­
ferent parts of the body, leads the child mind to
admiration of the creator and love of the parents.
A girl needs instruction to fit her for her sexual life
and motherhood much more than she does for any
special talent or occupation, as practically all must
solve the former problems, and the lack of prepara­
tion is the principal reason of so many failures in
married life. The boys likewise need preparation
for fatherhood and their sex life.
[ 179]
C h a p t e r X I X
SEX PSYCHOLOGY
I n dealing with the psychological influences and
abnormalities connected with the sex urge, I shall
now refer briefly to psychoanalysis as developed by
Drs. Freud and Jung. They claim that a large num­
ber of psychoses and even physical ailments are due
to sex repression. The patient is often unwilling,
or unable, to recall the incident or time when these
impressions and repressions took place. So, in order
to get at and discover the repression, these men
delve into the symbolic meaning of dreams and re­
sort to hypnotism, and, according to their analysis,
a large number of maladies are traced to sex repres­
sion. The late Dr. Boris Sidis, of this country, who
was at the head of a large sanitarium in New Hamp­
shire for many years, with a very wide experience
with many patients, used the same methods to dis­
cover hidden repressions, but Dr. Sidis does not
[180]
SEX PSYCHOLOGY
wholly agree with Dr. Freud, as he claims that there
are other repressed desires besides sex, that have a
profound physical and mental effect, and he cites a
number of cases to prove his contention.
Every day more knowledge is being accumulated
relative to the psychological aspects of the sex urge.
Ever since the classification of cerebration into the
conscious and subconscious mind, it is a well
established fact that any desire of the conscious mind
is transmitted to the subconscious mind, which con­
tinues to strive to bring about, or attain, the desired,
so that long after the conscious mind has given up
all effort, and has even forgotten, the subconscious
mind (which, it is claimed, never forgets anything)
is continuing to work out the problem. Then again,
the subconscious mind, which is first to become
aware of these inherent innate desires or urges and
transmits this knowledge to the conscious mind to
solve through its higher intellectual deductive
processes, never gives up, or ceases to pass the prob­
lem along for solution, so that the sex problems,
which the persons think they have solved and settled
for life, are found to be ever recurring in some
form or another; often in some symbolic dream, or
an indefinite craving, or fantastic reverie, or imagin­
ary ills, or a hunger for sympathy, love, or appre­
ciation, or what not. Few people are able to recog-
[181]
LOVE AND LIFE
nize, or will admit that the shocks, repressions and
desires, that may have had their beginning in early
childhood, are expressed by such manifestations. To
one, who is familiar with the psychic evidence of the
sex urge, these things are plainly revealed by the
thousand and one little things that occur in people’s
lives every day.
The obsession of sex is much in evidence, as
shown by a study of the psychology of almost any
audience and noticing their approval and pleasure
when reference, either jocular or serious, is made to
sex matters. If a group of men or women, or even
a couple of boys or girls, get together by themselves,
it will not be long before the inevitable subject of
sex comes up for discussion. Some, who think they
are absolutely free from any domination by sex and
express themselves disgusted with the subject and
claim those who think, or talk, about such things
are low, depraved or degenerate, and that there is
something radically wrong with their heredity or
bringing up, have some of the worst kind of sex ob­
sessions themselves} but they are manifested along
some other lines of expression and not always for
their own good or the benefit of their associates.
Bear in mind that all incoming stimuli, whether they
be physical or psychological, produce equal outgoing
impulses, and no matter how hard one may try to
[ 182]
SEX PSYCHOLOGY
suppress, sublimate or transmute these impulses,
there are fundamental laws in nature that man has
never been able to conquer or completely control.
Referring again to Krafft-Ebing’s cases in Psy-
chofathia Sexualis, which cover the entire field of
sex perversions, we find that most of them have a
constitutional defect. They nearly all had a bad
heredity. They were born with an unstable nervous
system. They were precocious, abnormally smart
children or were dull and poorly developed, men­
tally and physically. Most of them were bashful,
reticent, egoistic, of the inferior or superior type.
They did not enter into the ordinary physical sports
of their playmates. They were poor “mixers”.
Their interests were limited and self-centered. Their
childhood was marked by ignorance, false knowl­
edge, false impressions and mystery concerning the
sex urge. They had no regular occupation or sys­
tematic training. We find their perversions were
gradually acquired, sometimes taking a long period
of time, and while there was, no doubt, a physical
basis, it was largely through psychological influence
that they arrived at their final sex perversion. How
far actual pathology caused this we do not know, as
these cases evidently were not investigated along this
line.
Anatomy teaches that there are commissural,
[183]
LOVE AND LIFE
communicating or association nerve tracts that
connect the different lobes and lobules or parts
of the brain with one another. There are usually
a large number of nerve fibers in these tracts and,
for convenience, we shall call them association tracts,
because they bring the different parts of the brain
into close association and direct communication one
with the other. Then there are the different nerve
tracts that connect the brain with the special senses
and all the rest of the body.
The exact location of the psychological center, or
the particular part of the brain where the conscious
thinking processes are carried on, has never been de­
termined} neither have the memorizing parts of the
brain or, as some call them, subconscious centers,
where memory is supposed to be stored, been exactly
located. We do know that there are seeing, smell­
ing, hearing, tasting and many other centers in the
brain that receive information and that send out mes­
sages. It does not follow that the destruction of the
seeing center destroys all memory of things seen,
even though it destroys sight} however, there are
centers in the brain which, if destroyed, will also
cause the loss of the memory of certain knowledge
gained through a particular avenue. It is, therefore,
evident that the exact part of the brain, that receives
knowledge, is not always the particular portion
[184]
SEX PSYCHOLOGY
where it is all stored. Many psychological phe­
nomena can be explained on the basis of disassocia-
tion of ideas.
Most psychologists agree that a person can ac­
tually be conscious of but one thing at a time. The
feat of playing several musical instruments at one
time, even playing different tunes, is accomplished
by the conscious attention of the mind flitting so
rapidly from one thing to another that one does not
realize that the attention is jumping about. The
same thing happens with telegraphers when they
receive and send a message and answer the telephone
all at the same time. A man may be walking along
a level sidewalk, intently thinking about a particular
subject, without giving any apparent attention to the
movements of his feet and legs. If he comes to a
curb where it is necessary to step down, he will do it
apparently without giving any conscious attention to
the change in his step in order to do so. If he be
questioned he will declare that he thought con­
tinuously on the subject he had under consideration
and that he had no recollection of stepping down
at the curb, yet, he must have given the act his mo­
mentary conscious attention but, because it was so
slight and rapid, his memory was not sufficiently im­
pressed for him to retain the fact.
It is agreed that all we know is acquired through
[185]
LOVE AND LIFE
the law of association. One compares the unknown
with the known. The unknown is associated with
the known. It is generally taught that a known
fact is a mental “hook” on which new knowledge is
“hung”. The law of association of ideas forms the
basis for all new knowledge and memory.
As mentioned above, every part of the brain is
connected with every other part by association tracts.
It is, therefore, self-evident that the conscious think­
ing center must be connected with the memorizing
centers by association tracts. It becomes necessary
to reiterate what I have said several times and that
is, that the sex urge and hunger are primitive in­
stincts in the evolution of animal life, and, in man,
they are the two principal primary sensations of
which he becomes conscious. It follows that all
knowledge is closely associated with these primary
instincts.
The process of bringing some particular knowl­
edge from the place where it is stored, namely its
memory center, into the field of consciousness, is
done by the association tracts. Seeing a red object
may bring into the field of consciousness a number
of ideas which are associated with red. The smell
of lilacs may bring into the field of consciousness
some long forgotten incident; something tasted, in
fact, anything coming within the field of conscious-
[186]
SEX PSYCHOLOGY
ness will be associated with facts stored up in the
memory that will often come into the field of con­
sciousness also. Many times one wants to recall into
the field of consciousness some information stored in
the memory and a conscious effort of the will is
made, and it may be accomplished almost instantly
or it may take some time or one may give up and go
on thinking about something else, when, all of a
sudden “it pops into the mind”. It is a common
practice for some persons, who want to recall a name,
to think about the letters of the alphabet and, when
they come to the letter that begins the name, it will
immediately come into their consciousness. Knowl­
edge, that is used and thought about every day, is
easy to recall, but information, that is seldom used or
thought about, is more difficult to recall to the field
of consciousness unless closely associated with some­
thing in the field at that particular moment. So it
seems that those association tracts, that are constantly
used, become more proficient in establishing commu­
nication between the conscious center and the memory
centers. With this preparatory foundation the reader
will be able to understand the law concerning the
disassociation of ideas.
Wagon tracks and nerve tracts are dissimilar, but
the following example will illustrate the point. Sup­
pose a level, smooth, muddy field is crossed at dif-
[187]
LOVE AND LIFE
ferent angles by a number of wagons. Some are
heavily loaded and some are lightly loaded. Several
may go across in the same track. Naturally the
heavy loads would cut deeper tracks than the light
loads and if several wagons followed along in the
same track it would be cut much deeper than the
rest. Now if a wagon undertakes to cross the field
and follow one of the wagons that made a light
track it will have to cross one of the deep tracks
made by the heavy wagons. If this crossing be made
at a very acute angle the wagon gets into the deep
rut and cannot get out and is forced to go on its way
in the deep track. The nerve tracts of the brain
are subject to these same laws. Thus we have the
“single track mind”.
Dual personality is accounted for in the same
manner. The classical case of the young woman
being a little girl and playing with her dolls in the
morning and being a young lady playing the piano
and entertaining her gentleman friend in the evening
is well known. Many forms of insanity are character­
ized by this same phenomenon. Examples of this
could be multiplied indefinitely, even among sup­
posedly normal individuals. Many persons have
hobbies5 some cannot think about anything but their
hobby or something that is closely related to it. I
know a musician who has a wonderful mentality,
[188]
SEX PSYCHOLOGY
but, outside of music, his psychic processes are very
deficient. If one apply these fundamental principles
governing memory and mental processes to the ideas
associated with the sex urge, it can be readily under­
stood why sex is one of the main “hooks” on which
much knowledge is “hung”. It is also evident that
many ideas, associated with one idea, which are con­
stantly used, will produce well-worn nerve tracts
and result in a disassociation of ideas concerning this
important subject. Not only does that hold true of
the sex urge, but it will apply to any other subject.
That is why one must consider so many related sub­
jects associated with the sex urge. It also accounts
for the many aberrations concerning this question.
Another illustration may make the disassociation
of ideas better understood. Consider the central
exchange of a telephone system to be similar to the
conscious thinking center and all the subscribers or
various telephones as the memory centers. If many
of the subscribers have four-party lines the analogy
will be better. If several persons are talking over
one line there will be confusion, yet some one voice
will be heard more distinctly than the others. Sup­
pose a heavy windstorm blows down the wires and
they become crossed and one undertakes to get into
communication with central and some other sub­
scriber answers instead, or central is reached and one
[189]
LOVE AND LIFE
is connected, but some other number is obtained and
someone else answers. So it is with the disassocia-
tion of ideas. There are all kinds of complications.
A severe shock, mental or physical, a serious sick­
ness, worry, fear or continuous mental effort, espe­
cially along one line, may cause a shunting of the
mental processes onto certain definite tracts and
other ideas that should be associated with well-
balanced mental collaboration are disassociated from
the field of consciousness. That is why sexual shocks,
impressions and repressions of childhood that have
been banished from the field of consciousness for
years, appear later, seeking expression in some ab­
normal manifestation and in symbolic dreams.
Those who have made a study of the subject
psycho-analyze the dreams and assert that they are
able to explain their meaning.
If one considers the number of times the con­
sciousness is attracted by, or called to, sex and the
many facts stored up in the memory and the many
thoughts associated with this subject, it is not sur­
prising if some of the wires get crossed.
The communication between one nerve and an­
other is made by what is called a synapsis. That is,
one nerve terminal connects with another nerve ter­
minal similar to one person making contact with
another by touching the finger tips.
[ 190]
SEX PSYCHOLOGY
One explanation given to account for the phenom­
enon of sleep, is by a break of the synapsis between
nerves that connect the conscious center with other
centers. Some claim that the thinking process is
continuous in sleep and that one dreams all the
timej that the only time one is conscious of a dream
is in the twilight state, that is, half awake and half
asleep. In other words, there is a sufficient amount
of synapsis made to connect the conscious center with
the subconscious centers. Others claim all dreaming
is done consciously; that the synapsis is so incom­
plete that the dream is garbled and imperfect; that
ideas are dissociated and that unless one is very
nearly awake or the dream is very impressive, it will
not be remembered. It may be, due to an imperfect
synapsis or the lack of use of a number of nerves to
connect the conscious center with the memory cen­
ters, that it is difficult or impossible to obtain a quick
and perfect association of ideas. Again, due to the
fact that certain tracts are constantly used, the
synapsis is very good and one thinks in a groove to
the exclusion of many other ideas that should be as­
sociated. A good example of this is twelve jurors
deliberating on a case which they are to decide.
Seven may be for conviction and five for acquittal,
but by having some pertinent fact called to the at­
tention of one of the jurors for acquittal, a fact he
[191]
LOVE AND LIFE
has forgotten or that is not in the field of his con­
sciousness, because he has his mind concentrated on
other evidence, he is made to associate this perti­
nent bit of information with the rest and he is won
over to conviction. Another juror is reminded of
another bit of evidence and so on until all the jurors
are unanimous in their verdict for conviction. With
this understanding of the law of association and the
factors governing disassociation of ideas the reader
should be able to apply this information in explain­
ing many of the phenomena connected with the sex
urge.
It is common knowledge that sensual thoughts,
suggestive pictures, literature, plays, conversation and
many other psychological stimuli, excite erotic feel­
ings. It is a well established fact that the suppression
of the natural physical outlet, that is provided by
nature for sex expression, leads to unnatural prac­
tices, excesses, aberrant psychology and to patholog­
ical changes in both mind and body and that over-
indulgence in the natural physical outlet for sex
expression will do likewise; therefore, it behooves
everyone to know something about a subject that has
such a vital bearing on life and its success or failure.
To sum up, we have the normal physical, the
pathological and the psychological influences,
coupled with a hereditary influence of millions of
[192]
SEX PSYCHOLOGY
progenitors, a life of dietary indiscretions, lack of
exercise, hot house methods of living and economic
and social conditions, all going to make up the prob­
lem of the sex urge as we find it in our day and
age.
[193]
G l o s s a r y
G l o s s a r y
Anemia. Impoverished blood, especially a lack of
red blood cells, marked by paleness and lack of
energy.
Anus. The outlet of the bowel; approximately the
last inch of the alimentary tract.
Aphrodisiac. Any drug that excites or stimulates
sexual desire.
Atrophy. Shrinking or wasting away.
Auto-Erotic. Refers to sex gratification practiced
on oneself without recourse to another person.
Bartholin's Glands. Glands of special secretion lo­
cated at the base of the labia minora.
Cardiac. Refers to the heart.
Caruncula. A fleshy eminence; ared meaty growth.
Cerebrospinal. Includes the brain, spinal cord and
the nerves that innervate the periphery of the
body, both motor and sensory.
Cervix. Neck; the narrow neck-like part of the
uterus that projects into the vagina.
Chromatin. The coloring substance within the cell.
Chromosomes. Small rod-like bodies within the cell.
[197]
LOVE AND LIFE
Ciliated. Having hair-like projections} applies es­
pecially to epithelial cells of certain mucous
membranes.
Clitoris. A small organ of the female located high
in the vestibule between the labia majora. The
most sensitive part of the sexual organs of the
female} contains erectile tissue.
Coitus Interruptus. Incomplete coitus; coitus with­
out an orgasm.
Contraception. Prevention of pregnancy or con­
ception.
Copulation. Sexual intercourse. Synonyms— coitus,
coition.
Corona. The rim} refers to the rim of the glans
penis.
Corpora Cavernosa. Cavernous bodies} the two
erectile columns that form the main part of the
shaft of the penis and the clitoris, which become
engorged with blood during erection.
Cowper’s Glands. Two glands near the bulb of the
corpus spongiosum whose ducts open into the
prostatic part of the floor of the male urethra.
Cytoplasm. A jelly-like substance within the cell-
body.
Detumescence. Relief from congestion or swell­
ing} refers to the condition of the sex organs
after sexual intercourse.
[198]
GLOSSARY
Endocrine. Refers to glands that have no duct
through which to discharge their secretion which
is taken up directly by the blood.
End-product. A product resulting from a particular
process, as the process of digestion, fermentation,
putrefaction or other bacterial action.
Epididymis. A mass of convoluted tubes, attached
to the posterior border of the testicle, that
straighten out into the vas deferens.
Epithelial. Denoting flat scale-like layers of cells
that form the skin and mucous membranes.
Erotogenic. Producing erotic feelings ; may be
psychic or physical.
Erotogenic Zones. Areas on the body that, when
stimulated, produce erotic feelings.
Exhibitionism. A morbid tendency to expose the
sex organs or the nude body.
Fallopian Tubes. A tube, or duct, that passes
through each side of the fundus of the uterus,
leads out about two and one-half inches and en­
larges into a trumpet-like opening to receive
the ova.
Fetal. Referring to the fetus.
Fetichism. A morbid desire or obsession to possess
an object worn by the opposite sex, which ex­
cites sexual passion or gratification.
Fetus. Unborn olfspring; the child in the womb;
[199]
LOVE AND LIFE
before the third month it is often called the
embryo.
Frenum. A fold of skin attached to the under sur­
face of the glans penis and a fold of mucous
membrane attached to the under surface of the
clitoris.
Fundus. The large end of any organ. Refers to
the uterus in the text.
Ganglia. Masses of nerve cells and fibers.
Gonads. The ovaries and testes.
Gonococcus. A minute vegetable germ that causes
gonorrhea.
Graafian Follicles. Spherical ovarian bodies that
form the nests for the development of the ova,
or eggs, of woman.
Gynecology. Treats of functions and diseases pe­
culiar to woman.
Hemorrhagic. Pertaining to a bloody exudate or
loss of blood.
Homosexual. Attracted by the same sex. Unnat­
ural sexual constitution.
Hood. The fold of mucous membrane that folds
over the clitoris. The foreskin of the clitorisj
the prepuce.
Hormone. A substance produced by a ductless or
endocrine gland that activates or exerts an in­
fluence on other glands or their products. The
[ 200 ]
GLOSSARY
testes and ovaries are included with many others.
It may also exert a constitutional effect.
Hymen. A fold of mucous membrane at the en­
trance of the vagina.
Hypospadia. An abnormal opening of the urethra
on the underside of the penis.
Inguinal Canal. A canal that passes through the
abdomen at each groin of the male.
Innervate. To supply with nerves; refers to nerves
that supply and govern the different parts of the
body.
Labia Majora. The outside lips of the female
genitals, covered with skin and, after puberty,
with hair and containing considerable fat.
Labia Minora. The inside lips of the female
genitals, consisting of a fold of mucous mem­
brane.
Leucorrhea. A whitish, yellow or greenish dis­
charge from the vagina; very difficult to dis­
tinguish from gonorrhea, except by the micro­
scope.
Masochism. A form of sexual aberration, or per­
version, in which the subject requires cruel treat­
ment, or punishment, in order to experience
sexual gratification.
Matrix. The uterus or womb. The groundwork in
which anything is cast.
[201]
LOVE AND LIFE
Menopause. Cessation of menstrual periods; cli­
macteric} change of life.
Mons Veneris. The eminence over the pubic bone
above the genitals.
Morula. The ovum in the mulberry stage, form­
ing a solid mass of cells.
Neurosis. A nervous disease usually considered
functional. There are many causes and many
manifestations.
Nymphomania. An excessive sex urge in the fe­
male.
Orificial. Refers to the natural openings of the
body.
Os. Latin for mouth, os uteri, os vaginae} any
opening.
Ova. Eggs or the seeds of the female.
Ovaries. The glands or gonads of the female that
produce the ova and have an important internal
secretion.
Ovulation. The process of developing and casting
out ova.
Oxidation. To be combined with oxygen as in the
process of combustion. The burning up of fat
and other substances.
Papillary. A nipple-shaped elevation.
Pathological. Referring to abnormal structural or
[202 ]
GLOSSARY
functional conditions of the body or those caused
by disease.
Pelvic. Referring to the pelvis.
Pelvis. That space bounded by the pubic bones in
front, the innominata or hip bones at the sides
and the sacrum behind.
Perineorrhaphy. The repair of the perineum, that
space between the vagina and the rectum that
forms the pelvic floor.
Perineum. The floor of the pelvis. That space be­
tween the anus and vagina in the female, and the
space between the anus and scrotum in the male.
Phallicism. The deification and worship of the sex­
ual organs of the external genitalia.
Placenta. The afterbirth. A plate-like mass of
flesh and blood vessels, that attaches to the in­
side of the uterus for nourishment of the fetus,
which is attached to it by the umbilical cord.
Plexus. A network of nerves or veins.
Prepuce. The fold of skin covering the glans penis
or the mucous membrane that covers the clitoris;
the foreskin; the hood.
Primae Viae. The rectum and anus; as used in the
text the outlet of the bowel.
Proctology. Treats of diseases of the rectum and
anus.
Prostate Gland. A gland about the size of a chest-
[203 ]
LOVE AND LIFE
nut, that surrounds the urethra, just below the
neck of the bladder in the male.
Proto-plasm. A jelly-like substance without organi­
zation.
Pubic. Referring to the pubis.
Pubis. The area over the pubic bone containing
considerable fat and covered with hair in the
adult.
Pulmonary. Refers to the lungs.
Pus Tubes. A common term used referring to in­
fection or pus in the fallopian tubes.
Sadism. A form of sexual aberration or perversion
in which violent or cruel treatment of another
produces sexual gratification.
Satyromaniac. A male who has an excessive sexual
desire.
Scrotum. The pouch or bag that contains the testes.
Seminal Vesicles. Small sacs or reservoirs, located
on each side of the neck of the bladder, for stor­
ing up the semen.
Sigmoid Colon. The S-shaped segment of the
bowel just above the rectum.
Spermatic Cord. The vas deferens, a hollow tube
that connects the testicle with the seminal vesicles
and carries the seminal fluid.
Spermatozoa. Small organisms in the semen of man
[20+]
GLOSSARY
that unite with the ova of woman to fertilize the
ovum.
Sphincter. A ring-like muscle that closes any orifice
of the body; a muscle that acts like a puckering
string to close an opening.
Sublimate. To change one form into another as
water into steam; natural sex urge into some
other creative activity.
Sympathetic. Refers to that nervous system whose
ganglia are situated in the cranium, along the
spine, and within the body, and whose nerves
supply all the internal viscera, or organs, all the
blood vessels and involuntary muscles.
Symphysis Pubis. The juncture of the two pubic
bones in the median line in front, forming the
promontory of the pubis.
Urethritis. Inflammation of the urethra.
Uterus. The womb; the organ of woman that holds
the fetus or babe until time for delivery.
Vasectomy. Tying off the vas deferens or cutting
out a section.
Vas Deferens. The spermatic cord that carries the
semen from the testicle to the seminal vesicles.
Vestibule. That space above the entrance of the
vagina, between the labia minora (see cut in
text).
[205 ]
