{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__lewis___mysterious_origin_of_the_rosicrucians.pdf","mytitle":"Mysterious Origin Of The Rosicrucians","mylang":"de"}
“W HITE BOOK C”
The
Mysterious Origin
of the
ROSICRUCIANS
A Challenge of Facts
Accepted by
AMORC
“W HITE BOOK C“
P im Edition. June. 192»
Second Edition. Mat. 1910
TWENTY THOUSAND
*RINTfO IN TH« U . m. A .
R O flIC B U C IA N P R E flfl L T D .
•*■•« * 0 * c . C A U tM M lk
To the Members and
Friends of
AMORC
The matter contained in this pamphlet was
originally prepared to be used in a personal
reply to the person who made the public chal­
lenge. When members ol the staff at Head­
quarters saw the great array of facts contained
therein—facts which had not been published in
America for some time—they believed that all
members and friend* would appreciate the his­
torical references and valuable citations from
ancient documents. Therefore, it was decided
to issue this matter to the form of a pamphlet
for distribution among the members and pros­
pective members of AMORC.
W e have, therefore, no other purpose in the
dissemination of this particular piece of litera­
ture than to make public the historical facts of
the Order, and trust that it will help all who
read it to check up those which are of vital
Interest to every student of Rosicrucian history.
The Department of Publication.
Supreme Council of AMORC
for North America.
June 6th. 1928.
Rosicrucian Park.
San Jose. California.
StAt OF T»lt
Suprpmr Council
o« AMORC of
N o r th A u r u c a
The Challenge Accepted
A DETAILED REPLY TO THE STATE­
MENTS MADE BY THE ROYAL
FRATERNITY ASSOCIATION
A LIVELY DISCUSSION
W c all enjoy a lively discussion of truth and
an intense search after facts. Students of
modern mysticism and mystical knowledge are
especially fond of research and the quest of the
evasive.
Among all the truths that may be veiled and
appear to evade the touch of familiar acquaint­
ance. none is more difficult of approach than
mystical truth, and none is more pleasant as a
companion when once secured in the conscious­
ness.
To the seekers of such truth the finding of
definitely stated facts constitutes a Hch reward
for time and effort spent. And. there is nothing
more disconcerting, more discouraging, and
more vexatious than veiled insinuations lacking
any substantiation, or wilful misrepresentation
lacking even the color of veracity.
These things do. however, lead to lively dis­
cussions—lively indeedl They tempt the casual
inquirer to peer beneath the surface. They argue
for more investigation. They force hidden facts,
obscure points, minute details, to be paraded in
the bright light of serious observation, and bring
a very desirable result--illumination.
THE MYSTERIOUS ' ROSEY CROSS"
There is perhaps no other subject in the
domain of occult research and mystical study
that grips the seeker for mystical knowledge
like the subject of the Rosey Cross or the
Fraternity of the Rosicrucians. Fascinating in
its elusiveness, romantic in its history, alluring
in its offers of profound wisdom, and seductive
in its withdrawals from intimate contact.
For many centuries the term Rosicrucian and
the title Tfasae Cmcis have heen the keys by
which ancient and modern books on arcane sub­
jects have been ganged and unlocked. And. the
merry game of search and research carries on
today in more universal and enlarged activity.
Who and ivhat are the Rosicrucians? Whence
came they? Whither do they go? These are
the questions being asked by thousands in
America today.
4
MANY ANSWERS TO THE
QUESTIONS
And. there seems to be many and varied an­
swers to the questions asked. Too much so for
the illumination of the mind of the inquiter. and
too misleading for the mind of the lover of truth.
There is no reason for the continuance of
veiled allusions and indefinite statements in this
century, in regard to the Rosicrucians. The rea­
sons which made such things advisable in the
years gone by. and in foreign lands, do not exist
today, and in America. Hence the spirit of open,
frank confession is not only expected but appre­
ciated when found by the student of mysticism.
TH E TRUTH UNVEILED
Believing in this spirit of frankness, the
AMORC. representing the modern activities of
the Rosicrucians throughout the world, made
bold to reveal its associations, purposes and
plans in its literature, when it began its new
cycle of American activities in 1909. From
a few. little known, occult and oriental philo­
sophical movements in America came prompt
criticism of our venture into the frank confidence
of the seekers, and we were implored to retreat
to that quality of conservatism that borders on
concealed and shadowy evasions. At once the
lively discussions began. Strange as it may seem,
none of the very fine metaphysical movements
in America, and none of the foreign branches
of the Rosicrucians. none of those jurisdictions
of the Fraternity of the Rose Cross which had
for years labored in difficulty under the ban
against frankness, protested against the Ameri­
can freedom of speech. They admired it—they
gloried in it—and prayed that the day might
come when they. too. could reveal their ac­
tivities. their meeting places, and their invitation
to the inquirers to come and share their knowl­
edge.
W hy should any In America resent the bright
and cheerful light of the Rosicrucian propa­
ganda? Public meetings that were select. Signi­
fied. rich in ineffable understanding, and at­
tended by men and women of culture. Maga-
2 ines that were beautiful in design, typographi­
cally attractive, filled with inspiring lessons.
Newspaper articles that revealed facts long con­
cealed. and awaited and desired by thousands
of searching minds. Such beams o! light as these
causing dissension? It would seem incredible.
Still. It proved to be so. For in the shadow.* of
f
contented isolation, and the tombs of unfathom­
able mystery, there were revealed one or two
occult and mystical pretensions which found the
light of wide publicity very disconcerting.
Protest, challenge, criticism, and vain offers
of mutual consideration!
Nothing, however, grows like frankness with
the American public.
The AMORC in a few years was nationally
organized, stabilized, accepted, and approved
It was a victory for honest, frank, intelligent
propaganda.
THEN CAME NEW PUBLICITY
Realizing the value of nation-wide publicity
and the power of the printed word, those who
had challenged in secret, suddenly rushed into
E
rint. The AMORC had presented its claims in
igical form. Its statements were rational. Its
proffers were kindly and understandable. But
now came confusion. If those who had failed
through private challenge could confound the
mind of the seekers with pretentious claims and
counter claims, a state of unrest, douht, and
anxiety might check the rapid growth of the
AMORC brotherhood in America—and that
was desirable at any price.
Circulars were mailed to limited mailing lists
of confidential inquirers by those who sought
to create confusion. Cheap bterature. lacking
the dignity, the ethical imprint, of a Rosicru-
cian body, found its way to the home of those
who sought to bioadtn their knowledge of the
Order of the Rosy Cross. Bombastic booklets,
unsigned and boasting veiled authorship, were
mailed to newspaper editors, civic bodies, and
government officials—much to their amusement,
surprise, and polite rejection.
All of this trashy literature contained denials
of the Rosierucian facts.
Like the Rock of Gibraltar stood the large
army of AMORC Rosicrucians in their faith
and loyalty. There seemed to be no profit to
the challengers.
A BEWILDERING ABSURDITY
Finally there passed through the mails to
those who bad little knowledge of the real his­
tory of the Rosicrucinns in any part of the
world, a yellow booklet, unsigned and undigni­
fied. but ecliptic in its profusion of misstatements
and veiled insinuations*
6
It was ao extremely abortive of its purpose,
all Rosicrucians believed, that it was self-con­
demning.
However, it awakened the interest of many
hundreds in the inferences of the Rose Cross
Order, and they in turn demanded facts and
more light.
The new booklet proclaimed itself to be:
"A DECLARATION.
AN ACCUSATION.
A CHALLENGE."
It was issued by an organization that has
operated for a number of years under various
names and now calls itself "THE ROYAL
FRATERNITY ASSOCIATION. Inc."
It claims to he a book written by the President
of the Association, and that the Association in­
cludes every form of Rosicfucianism throughout
the world, and many other occult societies of its
own Invention or adoption.
The absurdity of tne claims and accusations
are highly apparent to even a casual reader,
but since hundreds say they have found others
in doubt, and since the gauntlet has been
thrown down and the discussion intensified, we
believe that AMORC is justified in accepting
the Royal Fraternity Association's challenge to
demi their misstatements it we can. and W E
CANI
Here Begins the
Discussion
Argument No. 1
The President of the Royal Association, who
is R. Swinburne Clymer (but docs not reveal
that name in his yellow booklet), claims that the
AMORC and any and all other Rosicrucian
bodies in America are "illegal" (a term having
more serious significance than he even attempts
to prove) because "he is the successor of one
Dr. P B. Randolph who established the flist
Rosicrucian ORDER in America." and since
Dr. Randolph was the true Grand Master "of
the entire world.” he alone had authority to
establish the Order in America.
These are serious statements, if true. Let us
delve into ancient Rosicrucian records and see
what facts we may quickly pick from hundreds
7
r
of authentic books at the disposal of all seekers.
Differing from Dr. Clymcc. we will make a note
of all the names of the authorities we consult,
so that we will not have to quote one of our own
books as Mr. Clymer always does.
T H E F I R S T A M E R I C A N
R O S I C R U C I A N S
(a) Did Dr. Randolph establish theirs/ Rosi-
crurian body, group, lodge, society, movement,
organization, or fraternity on American shores?
That is Mr. Clymers positive claim.
We find quite easily, in the Congressional
Library at Washington, in the Scottish Rite
Library in Washington, in the Historical So­
ciety of Pennsylvania, and in dozens of other
Libraries and historical rooms, the records of
the first Roaicrucians in America. They came
from Europe in accordance with the plans of
the Imocrator (not merely a local Grand Mas­
ter) or Europe, and came in 169.3-4 to Philadel­
phia prepared to establish a permanent Rosi-
crucian Brotherhood. Order or Fraternity, and
did so. Their first and last buildings are still
standing and they remained in the same terri­
tory until 1801. then scattered throughout the
American continent. The complete story of
these "true Rosicrucian Mystics, who came in
a body to these shores in the year of grace 1694.
under the leadership of Magister Johannes Kcl-
pius." an officer of the Order of Europe, is told
in a very large and beautifully illustrated vol­
ume written by Julius Priedrich Sachsc. Histo­
rian of the Pennsylvania Grand Lodge of Free­
masonry and possessor of many early Roiicru-
cian jewels, books, records, and manuscripts,
and Life Member of the Historical Society of
Pennsylvania and other societies. The book was
published in 1895 in Philadelphia, and has been
read by thousands of students of Rosicrucian
literature, and has been referred to by many
eminent writers on the subject of the first Rosi-
crucians in America. Therefore. Mr. Clymer
should know the facts contained in the book.
He should also have seen an article on the life
and work of these first American Rosicrucian*
which appeared within recent years in the New
Age magazine, official organ of the Southern
Jurisdiction of the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry,
in Washington.
The facts contained in these books and maga­
zine articles have been shown to Mr. Clymer
and he refrains from speaking of them and
3
makes his false claim that Dr. Randolph was the
first Rosicrucian organizer in America in the
year 1858, precisely 158 years after the Rosi-
crucians established their authorized headquar­
ters in America. That settles that point.
A “GRAND MASTER OF TH E WORLD"
(b) W as Dr. Randolph "Grand Master of
the Rosicrucian Order for the entire world?"
That would be quite a unique position, if true:
but we seem to sense that the title "Grand Mas­
ter" is not one that is applied to a person having
power pr authority over more than a local divi­
sion of some country. So again we turn to very
dependable records of the past and present, in
America and foreign lands. W e find, first of
all, that officers of the Rosicrucian Order or
fraternity or brotherhood in foreign Linds, held
various titles in accordance with their territorial
authority. W e find that there were Masters of
single lodges. Grwnd Masters of several lodges
in one province, district, or section of a country.
Supreme Grand Masters of entire countries, and
Impcrators or Hcirophants of certain sections of
continents. W e find that only the Imperator*.
Heirophants. or Council composed of all Grand
Masters of one country or jurisdiction had
authority to regulate the affairs of the Order. All
this seems reasonable and consistent. W e find
nowhere, in not a single book of the hundreds
available, nor in a single one of the hundreds
of authentic Rosicrucian manuscripts in all the
foreign libraries, nor in one of the half dozen
authentic histories of the Rosicrucian Order,
nor in a Single one of the Freemasonic Encyclo­
paedias or Histories (all of which deal with
the various phases of the Rosicrucian frater­
nity) any reference to any person at any time
ever holding the position of Grand Master.
Imperator. Supreme Master, ruler, chief, or
head of the Rosicrucian Order or fraternity or
brotherhood throughout the world. On the
other hand, we see immediately that each
country had its own chief, its own high officer,
and there could not have been any Grand
Master of the entire world.
IMPORTANT HISTORICAL FACTS
W e also find in the well-known Falken-
stein manuscripts the reference to Count Keis-
wetter as "Imperator of the Rose Cross Order
in France," and in other manuscripts other Im-
perators of Europe are mentioned. Keiswetter
9
r
mentions Johann Friesen as one of the eminent
Rosicrucian Imperators of Europe. So does
Sedir in his historical writings of the Order.
Then there was Cornelius Agrippa, the lm-
perator in 1507. as mentioned by Prof. BoUand
In his historical writings, who also refers to
Airanaeus Philalathes and his investment with
the authority of Impcrator in another place.
Then ihete is the mention in Richelieu's mem­
oirs of P. Gautier, the Impcrator Rosae Crueis
of France. And. most notable, there was
Eliphas Lev! (the Abbe Louis Constant), who
was Supreme Grand Master of the Rosicru­
cian Order in France for many years before
and after 1875—the very years Mr. Clymer
claims that Dr. Randolph was establishing his
"Rosicrucian” society in America as "Grand
Master of the entire world." How came all
these and many. many, more Supreme Masters
and Imperators to be cast aside for the selec­
tion of a man who bad no Rosicrucian record of
any kind to be "Grand Master of the entire
world?" For. in all the historical records of
Europe. Dr. Randolph’s nîiroe does not appear
as a Grand Master lor any country, and in all
the long list of hundreds of books dealing with
Rosicrucian principles, which one finds in the
international bibliographies of Rosicrucian
books. Ur. Randolph's name does not appear
there even once with the title of a real Rosi­
crucian book.
Whence came this man who suddenly be­
comes Grand Master of the world? That he
attended the same lodge sometime attended by
Napoleon may be accepted on faith—there be­
ing no records of such events: that he was
honored while in France with the honorary
title of "Grand Master" for the duration of his
connection with that Lodge, we will accept, as
we have in the past, on Mr. Clymcr’s statement.
But when that honorary title is now broadened
to cover "the entire world" and this unknown
man becomes the ruler over hundreds of other
eminent Rosicrucians of recorded position in the
Order—then we cease to accept statements. So.
that settles that point.
PRESENT "GRAND MASTER OF
WORLD"
(c) Mr. Clymer claims that he has suc­
ceeded to the authority once possessed by Dr.
Randolph, and is. therefore, the present Grand
Master of the entire world and bas the sole
authority in matters Rosicrucian in America at
least.
to
Let us investigate again. There are several
highly dependable, strictly reliable. well-known
histories of the Rosicrucian Order from the
earliest days of civilisation to the present time.
One of them is the History of the Rose Cross,
by Hr. Witteman. a member of the Belgian
Senate. This book has been published in
Prench and other languages. Nowhere in it
do v.-t find Dc. Randolph mentioned, nor his
American "Rosicrucian" foundation work, nor
Mr. Clymer's name and his authority In Amer­
ica. nor his Royal Fraternity Association. We
turn to many other books. W e have the same
result- W e look at the list of Rosicrucian
bodies invited to attend conferences In Europe
—and Bnd no mention of Mr. Clymer and bis
unique Association. W e write to the various
Rosicrucian chiefs In Europe and End that they
never heard of his Association and do not
know him. (Please note that we make inquiry
of Rosicrucian bodies In Europe, not of Gov­
ernmental representatives. C o d s u J s or others
who have no access to Rosicrucian records.)
W c write to such men as the Grand Secretary
of the Rosicrucian Order in England. He
does not know of the Royal Fraternity Associa­
tion as a Rosicrucian body: and others politely
ask: "W hy does it not operate under the Rosi­
crucian name if It claims to be one of the world
branches of the Order?"
“ H O I N T E R N A T I O N A L
O R G A N I Z A T I O N *
And. lastly, if the Royal Fraternity Associa­
tion ia the authorized American representative
of the world-wide Rosicrucian organization,
why docs not the international headquarters in
Europe immediately prevent AMORC in
America from maintaining fraternal relations
with the European branches, or. really, why
docs not Dr. Clymer. as "Grand Master of the
World,*' or of America, stop the AMORC alto­
gether? That seems like a logical proposition.
Mr. Clymer. however, says that "there is no
international organization, there is no superior
body of officers representing all the various
jurisdictions, there is no one supreme body of
Rosicrucians who have the right, authority, or
privilege of controlling the activities of Rosi­
crucian bodies anywhere.'* If that statement is
true, and if such a surprising situation could
exist after hundreds of years of world-wide
activities of the Rosicrucians. then anyone, any
11
t
person, any group of persons may form a Rosi-
cruciao society, brotherhood, or Order, in any
Jand and continue to function without molesta­
tion.
W HENCE CAME AUTHORITY?
Here Mr Clymer steps in to say that while
no one in Europe or no group of persons any­
where in the world has any authority to regu­
late Rosicrucian affairs, he alone has exclusive
authority for the United States, or North
America and the isles of the sea. if not for the
"entire world." If he has that authority or
right as successor to Dr Randolph, and if Dr.
Randolph had that right from some group of
men or some authorized supreme council of
Europe, why does that supreme council fail to
stop AMORC? And. if there is not and never
has been any supreme council or body for the
world-wide activities of the Rosicmcians.
where, then, did Dr. Randolph and Mr. Clymer
get their authority? This should settle the last
point of argument number one. The reader may
easily judge as to whether Mr. Clymer has sup­
ported and proved his contentions in this first
argument.
Argument No. 2
The discussion having become quite lively
now. let us take another group of related points
of the contentions of the Royal Fraternity Asso­
ciation.
"ORDER STARTED IN 1616-
fa) Mr. Clymer contends that his Royal
Fraternity Association is based upon the foun­
dation of the Rosicrucian order originated
and established by Christian Rosenkrcuz in
Germany in the seventeenth century. In other
words. Mr. Clymer is one of those very few
students of Rosicrucian mysticism who still be­
lieves the allegorical accounts published in sev­
eral of the American encyclopaedias of past
years He believes, as all his literature shows,
that "Christian Rosenkreuz" was the originator
of the first, the only, the original Rosicrucian
movement in Europe, and that from that
German body has come all authority for every
Rosicrucian body in the world. Secondly, he
modifies that belief by saying that he knows
that the Lutheran clergyman. Andrea, was the
real author of the "Christian Rosenkreuz" docu-
11
menu known as the "Fama" and the "Confes­
sio" issued in Germany in the seventeenth cen­
tury. He says, on page 13 of bis yellow book:
“The beginning of the Rosicrucian Order or
Fraternity, as such, dates from the seventeenth
century when Johann Valentine Andrea, not
Lord Francis Bacon as erroneously claimed by
some uninformed writers, signing himself Chris­
tian Rosenkreuz. published a number of pam­
phlets . . .'*
BACON OR “ROSENKREUZ"?
Please note that Mr. Clymcr is aware of the
fact that some writers (really a great many, and
most of them prominent historical writers) have
stated that Bacon wrote the Rosenkreuz pam­
phlets. but he discards that statement, claims
the writers arc misinformed, and sticks to the
long exploded theory that the Order dates from
the seventeenth century.
If this president of the Royal Fraternity As­
sociation was a part of the world-wide Rosicru­
cian movement he would surely have access to
books, manuscripts, and papers which would
make him change his statements because of the
very absurdity of their inconsistencies. But Mr.
Clymer. successor to the Grand Master of the
Rosicrucians for the entire world, does not know
the following facts- which seems passing
strange for a Grand Master.
DID NOT STAR! IN GERMANY
For instance: He does not seem to know
that the “Fama" and the "Confessio" distinctly
state that the new birth of the Rosicrucian fra­
ternity or order in Germany was but the con­
tinuance of the very old organization. Both of
these documents tell bow “Christian Rosen­
kreuz" was an officer of the Rosicrucians cen­
turies hefore. Hence, it did nor have its first
foundation either in Germany or in the seven­
teenth century.
Furthermore. Mr. Clymer does not seem to
know, as he should if he were tbe real Grand
Master for the entire world, that the Rosicru­
cian Order, the Order Rosae Crucis (which
has always been the true name of every author­
ized branch) was THOROUGHLY ESTAB­
LISHED IN MANY LANDS before tbe pub­
lication of the “Fama" and the "Confessio."
He says that he "knows" there were no societies
or fraternities Rosae Crucis before the years
1615-1616 when the "Christian Rosenkreuz"
U
pamphlets were issued. Eut. let us turn again
to historical evidence and see if what he
' knows" is true.
ORDER IS VERY OLD
The famous Falkensteln manuscripts show
that the order Rosae Crucis was well estab­
lished In certain parts of Europe in 1374.
Figulus. the well-known writer of mystical
literature, issued a definite publication in the
year 1607 (which was before the publication
of the Rosenkreuz pamphlets) and refers
therein to a previous birth of one of the cycles
of the Rosicrucian Order in Europe in the year
1410.
P. Gautier, who was an officer of the Order
and a nationally esteemed authority on such
subjects, states that the year 1410 was the date
of the previous new cycle of the old Order
Rosae Crucis.
Michael Maier. one of the highest officers of
the Order in Europe, and author of many of
the finest books on mysticism, states that in
the year 1413 the new cycle of the Order was
generally recogoized as the great period of
activity.
Kaiswetter. another officer of the Order, tells
us in his writings that Friesan or Friesau was
“Imperator" of the Order in 1468. And Sedir.
another authority, mentions the same Imperator
for that period.
The eminent Cornelius Agrippa, one of the
greatest mystical writers, whose books are still
beloved, organized a branch of the Order
Rosae Crucis in a section where the members
sought a Lodge, in the year 1507. and Brother
Pftilalafhes was "invested with the power of
Imperator.
A letter from the well-known Dr. Landalf of
Lyon. France, addressed to Agrippa, and pre­
served by Prof. Bolland in his records, shows
that In 1509 he was familiar with the Order
and the Imperator at that time.
ORDER HAD MANY CYCLES
Paracelsus, while a student in the University
of Basle. (Switzerland), was admitted Into the
Lodge Rosae Crucis in Basle by the Abbe of
Sponhelm Johann Trithemius. who was also
Agrippa s former initiator. This was in the
year 1530.
Heinrich Khunrath. eminent Rosicrucian
Grand Master in the Gcrman-Austrian coun-
14
tries, and recognized today as a wonderful
teacher of Rosicrucian and mystical subjects,
published a booh dealing with the Rosicrucian
principles with the approval of the Emperor
Rudolph. This was in 1598.
Records show that a great convention of
Rosicrucians was held in England in the year
1604 on the occasion of the birth of the new
cycle there (This was the fourth cycle for
England’s Rosicrucian Order.)
FfRST C YC r.E IN GERMANY
A Rosicrucian manuscript preserved in Co­
logne. written by Brother "Omni* Moriar.'*
shows that there was a Rosicrucian lodge in
that city in the year 1115, (This was the first
cycle in Germany.)
The "Rosary" of Arnold De Villnnova. an­
other officer of the Order, speaks of the Order
In 1230.
In Denmark there are records which show
that the King of that country was the head of
the Rosicrucian Order there, and that the Order
was existing there as far back as J484. (This
was in Denmark’s first cycle.)
Records show in various Rosicrucian his­
tories that a Rosicrucian Lodge was active in
Lunninberq in 1571 In co-operation with an­
other in Holland.
A manuscript entitled "Echo of the Society
of the Rose-Croix" is dated 1597 and plainly
indicates that the order was well established
then.
THE FACTS REMAIN
W e need not quote more of the ancient ref­
erences. for It would take too many pages to
do even fair justice to the list. But. can any­
one say that "the Order dates from Germany
in the seventeenth century." and say it with
truthfulness? Such a claim would be a denial
of the very landmarks of the Order which are
filled with traditions of the past, and It would
make prevaricators of hundreds o f eminent
writers. And. what would you do with the
books that were written before the seventeenth
century which mention the Order Rosae Crucis.
its Lodges. Its Imperators. Supreme Masters,
and many, many Grand Masters? W e believe
that this settles point number one in the second
argument. Is Mr. Clymex able to support his
contention of the non-existence of the Order
before the Roscnkreuz pamphlets were issued
in I6I5-I6I6?
IS
r
BACON AS 1MPERATOR
(b) And. Had Bacon nothing to do with the
Rosenkreuz pamphlets, an Mr. Clymcr Insists?
He claims that the order derived its name
"Rosy Cross" from the name Roscnkrettz. and
that Andrea wrote the pamphlets.
First we find that the Order not only existed
prior to the Rosenkreuz pamphlets, as shown
in the foregoing statements, but the Order was
universally known as the Rosy Cross frater­
nity. or in Latin as the Order Rosae Cruets.
(Please bear in mind that most of the histories,
documents and manuscripts contained much
Latin, and the Latin name of the Order was
generally used, as it is today throughout the
world, in all official statements.) So. in the fore­
going list of references we have ample proof of
the use of the term Rosy Cross and Rosae
Crucis centuries before the Rosenkreuz pam­
phlets were written.
ANDREA NOT THE FOUNDER
Did Mr. Clymcr ever read any of the his­
torical records about the private life of Francis
Bacon? Quite evidently not. Still, he should
have been able to get and read one book that
contains extracts from hundreds of these other
records. That book is by Mrs. Henry Pott.
She has written much on the Life of Shake­
speare and Bacon. Her books are so depend­
able that they have been quoted by many other
writers. The one book she wrote to which
we have reference deals with Bacon as the
Imperator of the Rosicrucians for sections of
Europe prior to and during the new birth of
the Order in Germany—1606 to 1616. the
years of the new German cycle. She shows who
his deputies or assistant officers were in each
country, how he himself visited some of the
branches, how all preparations were made for
the public announcement of the new birth. This
is but one authority—and quite sufficient for
this limited space—to prove Bacon's authorship
of the Rosenkreuz pamphlets If more is
needed, we need only to note that the same mys­
terious signature appears in Bacon's "New
Atlantis"—an admitted Rosicrucian publication
—as appears several times in the pages of the
Rosenkreuz pamphlets. And. lastly, Mr.
Clymer does not seem to know that Andrea
himself wrote a book disclaiming and ridicul­
ing the statement that he was the author of
the Rosenkreuz pamphlets, and that he had
16
anything to do with the Order. This should
settle point number two of Mr. Clymer's sec­
ond contention.
Argument No. 3
Now. in the very intense moment of our lively
discussion, we come to a restful moment, an
amusing moment. Mr. Clymer rises to give us
the passing pleasantry. He brings forward this
gem of contention from page 6 of his book, the
Philosophy of Pire, and from page 10 of his
unique history of the Rosicrucian Order as he
would have it.
"I first gave to the world the facts, concern­
ing the name 'Christian Rose and Cross' and
'Christian Rosenkrcuz.' and I boldly challenge
the wide world for proof to the contrary. All
others that use this are copyists pure and
simple." Then he states that he first gave this
knowledge to the world in his first book pub­
lished in 1904 and copyrighted by him in 1903.
He further adds that since all others have
stolen from his copyright book, and since copy­
rights are valuable assets to him. all others
using the story of Christian Rosenkreuz are—
well, he uses many names for them, and claims
they are "illegal" for using his story.
AN IMPOSSIBLE CLAIM
fa) When the smile wears off we see the
Astounding false pretentiousness of his state­
ment. Can he really mean wbat he says? Yet.
he says. "I boldly challenge the wide world for
proof to the contrary." That is the broadest
claim a man can make, and he has said it often
and has influenced many minds with the buf­
foonery of his claim.
So. we turn again to ancient records and see
wbat we find to either prove or disprove this
VERY IMPORTANT P O IN T -the one Mr
Clymer threatens to use as a basis for legal
action against all Rosicrucian organizations!
NO MYSTERY AT ALL
First we note that the pamphlets signed
"Christian Rosenkreuz" were written by some­
one (we know it was Bacon) for the purpose
of arousing public interest in the new cycle of
the Order in Germany. Not one who reads
those pamphlets believes that the name "Chris­
tian Rosenkreuz" is the name of a person, for
any German student will tell you that the word
Rosenkreuz means "Rosy Cross.” or of the
17
Rosey Cross. It is still used in Germany that
way. and was for years before the pamphlets
were written. And. any German will tell you
that the phrase "Christian Rosenkreiiz” means
either the Christian Rosy Cross ot the Chris­
tian of the Rosy Cross. You would not have to
explain that to anyone who knew even a little
of the German language, nor that it was merely
a pen-name for some unknown person.
These pamphlets came into public distribu­
tion between 1615 and 1616. And. at once
there also came into publication a host of ex­
planatory ones. It was found that the first
ones, to which Mr. CJymer refers, were too
veiled, too vague, and left too many persons
suspecting various persons of the real author­
ship. So. officers of the Order in other lands,
some right in Germany, and mystics generally
who knew the facts, issued new and more ex­
planatory pamphlets, telling what was really
meant by the two first pamphlets signed by
"Christian Rosenkreuz.” Now. Mr. Clymer
says he was the FIRST to do this explaining,
and that he did it in 1903-1904. and challenges
the wide world to disprove his claim. So. here
is the proof he did not know existed:
VALUABLE REFERENCES
Gabriel Naude. eminent French Rosicrucian
and mystic, wrote one of the best explanatory
books, entitled: "Instruction a la France, sur
la Vérité, de la Histoire des Freres de la Rose
Croix." (Instruction to those In France on
the truth of the history of the Brothers of the
Rosy Cross.) This was published in Paris in
1623. That was two hundred and eighty-one
years before Mr. Clymer published bis expla­
nation.
In Germany, one of the officers of the Order.
John Bringert, published explanatory versions
of the pamphlets with a "Confession of the
Faith of the Fraternity Rosae Crucis." in 1615.
and this has been widely copied by later his­
torians. His explanation was published two
hundred and eighty-nine years before Mr-
Clymer published his book.
Robert Fludd. the very famous Rosicrucian.
brought out his explanation as early as 1617
and in it discussed the general activities of the
Order in Europe. That was over a hundred
years before Mr. Clymer was born.
Michael Maier. the high officer of the Order
to Germany, wrote a book entitled "Themis
18
Aurea. the Laws of the Fraternity Rosae
Cmds." This book explained the purposes of
the neu/ cycle, the cause of the “Roscnkreuz"
pamphlets and the wide activities of the Order
Rosac Cruels. The hook was published in
Frankfort in 1618—two hundred and eighty-
six years before Mr. Clymer "first'' told the
atory.
IN ENGLISH LANGUAGE?
But. Mr. Clymer may say that he means that
he first told the story in the English language.
Well. let u.< see. W e find that Michael Maier's
book of explanation was translated into English
and dedicated to Elias Ashmole. the eminent
Rosicrucian Master of London, and issued
through the Lodge members in London in the
year 1656. That gives us an English version
two hundred and forty-eight years before Mr.
Clymer priated his vetsioa in his little print-
shop in Pennsylvania as a Great Mystery
Solved.
W e could go on now and cite versions and
translations, explanations, and expositions of
the "Christian Rosenkreuz” pamphlets and
mystery (7) until wc filled a dozen of these
pages, for those pamphlets have been translated
and reissued in almost every known language
for hundreds of years.
IN AMERICA?
Perhaps Mr. Clymer means that he was the
first to translate those pamphlets and explain
the meaning of the name “Christian Rosen-
kreuz" in America—the land over which he
rules as Grand Master of the entire Order. W e
shall look into that possibility, for surely the
man does mean something by that claim which
he defies the wide world to disprove.
W e find that among the many strictly
American publications of the “Rosenkrcuz '
translations into English, with explanations,
are two very important ones:
The "History of Freemasonry.” by Albert
G. Mackey, one of the few recognized stand­
ard references for all of American Freema­
sonry. It is a large set of books in many vol­
umes. beautifully illustrated, and thoroughly ex­
haustive. W e find in Volume Two of that set
very careful presentations of the "Rosen-
fcreuz" pamphlets as well as a long story of the
origin of the Rosicrucian Order, the purpose
of those pamphlets, their effect on the public.
1*
the many that were written explaining the
"seeming" mystery, and other interesting mat­
ter. Those books were issued in America and
"copyright 1898" with ALL RIGHTS RE­
SERVED. This volume makes very plain that
the "Christian Rosenkreuz" title on the pam­
phlets was a figment of fiction to hide the real
author s name and was only a symbolical name.
So. that "Mystery" which Mr. Clymcr says he
revealed for the first time in America or the
world, was well revealed in this country a num­
ber of years previously.
MYSTERY WELL EXPLAINED
And. in another American encyclopaedia of
Freemasonry, edited by Robert F. Gould, we
find a very exhaustive explanation of the "Ros­
enkreuz" pamphlets, quoted from many ancient
versions and explanations: and we find there
again the explanation that the name Christian
Rosenkreuz means in Latin Christinus Rosae
Crucis. or in English "the Christian, which he
certainly was, of the Rosy Cross." This ex­
planation is taken from old books by the
author, and yet Mr. Clymer says he was the
first to tell it to the world. That settles one
more point, and if any proof were needed to
show that the Royal Fraternity Association
president is simply writing preposterous
claims and challenges simply to dumbfound or
confound truth seekers, this one expose of mis­
statement is sufficient to condemn all bis claims
of any nature.
HISTORICAL FACTS "STOLEN!"
(c) And. keep in mind that he says that all
Rosicrucian writers have copied from him and
he makes a pretty strong claim of "illegal" ac­
tions by those who "stole" from his copy­
righted books. From whose copyrighted books
did he secure his old story of the Rosenkreuz
mystery? Mr. Mackey's volumes were pub­
lished in 1898. and were copyrighted and fully
protected with aII "rights reserved." U the
copyright law can apply to protecting historical
facts regardless of what words arc used to
state them, then Mr. Clymer and his Philo­
sophical Publishing Company have violated all
kinds of copyrights. Thus ends the third
argument.
20
Argument No. 4
W e are surely finding much light on the his­
tory and activities of the Order, and we are
delighted with our discussions. These things
should have been put into book form long ago.
Some day wc may even amend them with olher
pages of facts.
Mr. Clymcr says that the real Roilcrucian
order or fraternity or brotherhood—meaning
his own organization—has only three grades or
degrees, and that these arc simply stages of
growth in a spiritual sense, and have nothing
to do with initiation ceremonies; and that there
are no ceremonies of any kind. He also says
that the Third Degree is known as the "Ex­
alted n»ird." He also says that there are
neither fees nor dues in the real order and that,
therefore, he has none in his society.
GRADES OP THE ORDER
(a) Every student of occult literature knows
Mr. Arthur Edward Waite, the eminent M a­
sonic and Rosicrucian historian and writer on
the highest phase.* of mysticism. Ilis score of
books are'htautiful contributions to the highest
and most inspiring literature in the field of
occultism. Mr. Waite shows in his History of
the Rosicrucians. his Encyclopaedias of Free­
masonry. and in other books, that the ancient
original Order of the Rosicrucians had many
degrees, and he shows that in the past hundred
years and up to the very present day. the true
and ONLY Rosicrucian Order or Order
Rosac Crucis or Fraternity of the Rosey Cross,
or Ordre Rose Croix, has NINE active de­
grees with initiations in regular Lodges, with
ceremonies quite elaborate, dramatizing the
work of each degree and the studies, and
THREE additional psychic degrees of initia­
tion NOT given in Lodges. These last must
be attained. And. no third grade—in fact, no
grade—is called the Exalted Third in any Rosi­
crucian Order, or Fraternity, but the one on
paper conducted by Mr. Clymer. W e cannot
find the title "Exalted Third" in any fisc of de­
grees anywhere else.
In the Third Edition of the very exact and
complete Histoire des Rose Croix, issued in
several languages, and edited by Fr. Wittemans.
a member of the Belgian Senate, wc 6nd in
many places references to the various degrees
and grades of the Order in all lands and we do
21
not find any references to "just three degrees."
but rather a list of the NINE active degrees as
used by AMORC in all lands, as is befitting
any part of the Rosicrucian Order. And. the
third degree is not named anything like the
name Mr. Clymer gives his third degree. So.
we credit Mr. Clymer with that original item
which none has "copied" from him and which
remains safe under his "copyrights."
CEREMONIES AND RJTUAL
(b) In regard to there being no ceremonies.
we wonder at once why all the ancient manu­
scripts. books, and records of the Order, refer
to the establishment of so many local Lodges,
so manv places of "ceremony." so many ritual­
istic officers (officers whose titles plainly show
that they had to do with ritualism only), and
the pictures—
«old drawings—of symbolical cere­
monies. So. we look into several records for an
explanation and we find:
A record of the initiation and admission
into full membership in the Order of one Dr.
Bacstrom. for instance, whose record is quoted
in a great many books because of its detailed
description. It records the initiation of the
Doctor in the society of the Rosa Croix by
Le Comte De Chazal at the Island of Mauritius,
on the 12th of September. 1791. The record of
this particular ceremony was found in the library
of Frederick HeckJey. a well-known antiquarian
who was interested in De Chazal's life, for Dc
Chazal was Supreme Grand Master at the
time.
In the fourth paragraph of promises made by
the initiate In this record appear these words:
"I do promise that 1 will . . . initiate and re­
ceive such person (or persons) as a member or
apprentice into our society, in the same manner
as I have been initiated and received."
19 DEGREES FOR $10?
W hat kind of an initiation did that refer to?
An ethereal one? A spiritual one or an imagi­
nary one like those you get by buying "forty-
nine initiations in one book for ten dollars." in
the manner which Mr. Clymer adopts with his
books? W e look a little further and see that in
the original Fama issued under the symbolical
name of Christian Rosenkreuz in the seven­
teenth century, there is a Boa} answer aftoof the
actuality of ceremonies. There we find that
the Rosicrucians "use two sacraments, as they
22
are instituted, witb a]] forma and ceremonies."
Note the plurality of the words forms and
ceremonies. That settles this point if any proof
were needed, tiuf. since we find all records
refer to such officers in the order as: Guardian.
Chaplain. Conductor. Herald. Precentor. High
Priest, and many others, we know that their
duties were not to sell books of teachings at
varying prices according to the gullibility of the
buyers, but to sacredly conduct ceremonies, of
which Mr. Clymer knows nothing.
FEES AND DUES
(c) As for fees and dues, every fraternity
that must maintain operating expenses is at
liberty by every law of ethics to charge such
nominal fees as will meet the costs of maintain­
ing the Order. The small monthly fees paid
into the true Rosicrucian Order pay for rent,
light, heat, postage for notices, and similar oper­
ating expenses, and the PRIVATE. MANU­
SCRIPT-FORM LESSONS of the Order arc
GIVEN FREE without cost to those who have
been tested in preliminary grades covering
months of preparation and finally admitted into
the Order as members with proper ceremony
like every other regular fraternity of any kind.
That is how AMORC operates throughout the
world, including this country of America.
FIFTY DOLLAR "DONATIONS"
Does Mr. Clymer charge fees or dues? He
says he does not and therefore his organization
Is real and nil others are clandestine. W e look
lor evidence again. W e find that when a per­
son attempts to get more of Mr. Clymer’s real
“Rosicrucion" teachings than he get.» from such
Clymer books as "Race Regeneration Mystery
of Sex. a Course of Instruction on the Right
Use of Sex." or from "The Rose Cross Aid
Cook Book," he then receives from Mr. Clymer
an application form for membership in his
"Roxicrucian" body and this statement over his
signature:
"TO ENROLL IN THE ORDER IT
IS REQUIRED THAT TH E ASPI­
RANT COMPLETE THE ENCLOSED
APPLICATION — OBLIGATION
CAREFULLY AND RETURN TO US
W ITH A DONATION O F $50 00
(FIFTY DOLLARS) TO HELP COV-
33
ER THE LEGITIMATE EXPENSES
INVOLVED IN THE TRAINING
AND GUIDANCE NECESSARY.”
And in his yellow booklet Mr. CJytner fur­
ther states that "AJJ aspirants who seek to enroll
in the great work must first secure and read”
three of Mr. Clymer’s personal books. C osting
ahout ten dollars minimum, or fifty dollars if
possible. That would make a minimum of $60.00
as an initiation, or entrance, or membership
(enforced, requested, demanded donation). The
AMORC in America and all lands requests only
Five Dollars as a registration fee from all appli­
cants. and this fee Includes not only the first
degree initiation, but entrance into each of (he
successive nine degrees when and as qualified.
Therefore, we see that Mr. Clymer's conten­
tions about the large enrollment fees of
AM O RC are not only insincere hut deceptive
in the impression they are designed to create.
Furthermore, in his own version of Dr.
Randolph’s draft of his "original' Rosicrncian
movement, of which Mr. Clymcr is the suc­
cessor. the rules call for not only an initiation
fee. but a "monthly tax" from all members.
(See page 159 of Mr. Clymer's own book.)
With the settlement of this third point we find
that argument number four loses all its weight
and passes into oblivion along with the others.
Argument No. 5
Mr. Clymcr says that no real Rosicrucians
ever admitted that they were members of the
Order, and none ever wore any emblem or any
token. He says further that the "most ancient
and universal law of the legitimate Order for­
bids the wearing of any insignia." (Page 22 of
his yellow book).
WEARING NO INSIGNIA
(a) Not only is it untrue that no member of
the legitimate Order ever wore any insignia—
no matter how veiled—but again Mr. Clymer is
insincere for he forgets that his own records
show that he has made quite a point in his work
regarding the selling of emblems to bis mem­
bers. On page 3 of one of his Issues of
the little magazine called "The Initiates.’ he
calls attention to a very profitable regulation in
24
r
connection with the sale of the emblems to be
worn by all members. It is to the effect that
whoever orders—and pays for—one of the em­
blems "shall do so with the distinct under­
standing that the price paid for it Is not for
ownership, but simply for the right to wear it
during the term of life and that at the lime of
parting of the ways" cither by resignation, sus­
pension. transition, or however, the pin "shall
be returned to headquarters." So. once more a
contention is shown to be merely a blind criti­
cism to fool the seeker.
MEMBERS UNKNOWN?
(b) Mr. Clymcr states that he cannot reveal
who gave him his authority, cannot reveal his
affiliations with any of the regular branches of
the Order in Europe, cannot show any docu­
ments or any letters because REAL MEM­
BERS OF THE ORDER DO NOT RE­
VEAL THEIR CONNECTIONS. (This is
from letters sent by him and from investigations
made by his former members and others, and
repeated in another form on pages 21 and 22
of his yellow book.)
This claim in the light of the manuscripts
and books of the past quoted on previous oages
of this pamphlet of ours, seems strange. Did
all of the real workers in the RosicrucJan
Order in the past refuse to reveal their connec­
tions? A hundred books and published manu­
scripts say "No!" Did Mr. Clymer's predeces­
sor. Dr. Randolph, hide his Rosicrucian great­
ness? No. he allowed it to be broadcast, even
though he gave no statement ns to where his
"Grand Mastership for the entire world" came
from. Does Mr. Clymcr hide his connections
with what he calls his real "Rosicrucian" move­
ment? Not while the mails will bring him
orders for his books and fifty dollar donations.
Does he hide the identity of those connected
with him and who have been led into his move­
ment with the hope and belief that is the real
and only Rosicrucian movement? Not at all!
He publishes theu names in his books and in
letters attacking other movements, to inuotve
other persons in his claims.
Certain it is. he does not reveal those names
of persons who should be mentioned. His
claim that they are not known to one another
or to any other Rosicrucian. is evasive. Just
evasive. So. that settles the second point of
argument number five.
15
Argument No. 6
Mr. Clymer says that he knows the
AMORC and other Rosicrucian bodies are
wrong, "illegal." and clandestine (really serious
chatgcs. if tiue), because he. Mr. Clymer. wrote
a number of letters to "American Consul Gen­
erals" and other Government Consuls in foreign
lands, asking them if they knew the high officer»
of the AMORC or other Rosicrucian bodies In
Europe and elsewhere, and they replied that
they "did not know of this or that Rosicrucian
Master. Supreme Master. Imperator or member
of the Order " Mr. Clymer says that settles it.
"They do not existl"
NO ANSWER—NO EXISTENCE
(a) W e wonder what Mr. Clymer would
think if we should write a letter to the French
Consul in New York and ask him if he knows
of a farmhouse In Pennsylvania where a very
"mystic temple" of "Rosicrucians" holds ses­
sions under the direction of Grand Master C/i/-
mer. and he should write and say: "I do not
know of Mr- Clymer, nor the farmhouse, nor
anything about Rosicrucians. not even who or
what they are." Such an answer is possible
from Consuls in any country, and unless there
is some criminal action pending, some Govern­
mental reason for investigation, they will not
delve into matters outside of their routine. There
are about seventy-five million people in America
who do not know who the Rosicrucians are, and
especially where they ace located. Keeping in
mind that for a great many years all secret
societies In Europe and foreign lands have been
forced by dangerous situations to keep their
meeting places secret—even in the heart of Paris
where one has extreme difficulty to locate the
national headquarters of the French Masonic
body or others—and also keeping in mind that
they have less mail coming to them, and always
in plain envelopes and without titles, and that
those who know will not tell every person who
makes a request, especially on letterheads that
claim to be from the "Supreme Heirarchy of
the R. C * (a title that all who know under­
stand to be bombastic!—keeping in mind \b«e
facts, is it any surprise that Mr. Clymer cannot
get the kind of replies he asks for?
But. there arc many members of the AMORC
in America who have been abroad and have
26
visited the Roaicrucian branches of Germany.
France, and other countries, and have written
their reports over their signatures. More are
going each year. They are of the qualification
which entitles them to contact the Order over
there. Me. Clymer’s contention, therefore, that
the letters he has disclaim any knowledge of the
foreign branches, and thereby prove that such
branches do not exist, means nothing.
COULD THIS BE TRUE?
Does Mr. Clymer mean to intimate that there
is no Rosicrucian Order, and that there are no
high officers, no supreme bodies anywhere in
the foreign lands? Does he mean to intimate
that his little organization In America—with no
Lodges in any cities, no Temples, no organized
form like that of the Order of other periods, is
the real and ONLY order in the world? Does
he mean that his Royal Fraternity Association,
which does not have the Rosv Cross as one of
its emblems in its yellow book, which does not
use the complete or regular name of any Rosi­
crucian body, is ALL THAT EXISTS TO ­
DAY OF TH E OLD. HONORABLE. DIG­
NIFIED Order Rosae Crucis? If that is his
contention, then all whose parents and grand­
parents were members may Justly hang their
beads in sorrow and regret for its retrogression,
and all the continents of the East and W est wdl
have to abandon their hope of Rosicrucian
activities.
But, if Mr. Clymer means that he operates
the TRUE AMERICAN branch of the old
foreign bodies, then why does he not show
some connections with them? Why cannot he
locate them with any letters? W hy do they leave
his name and movement out of all their records
and histories—even up to the new one published
in Paris in 1925? And why is he not invited to
attend their international conferences over there?
AMORC shows such connections.
TOO MANY KNOW
Neither the AMORC throughout the world,
nor the AMORC in America alone, can be
wiped out of existence by the mere statement
that letters sent to foreign Consul Generals fail
to bring to one man in America the information
be requests. Too many have written to other
persons in Europe and received proper answers,
and too many persons know of tbe actual exist-
27
7
ence of many Rosicrucian bodies in the world,
for any such claim to be made In these days. So.
another one of the very important argumenta
is settled.
Argument No. 7
Finally we have this very interesting group
of points to investigate. V/e must say th^t the
points now to be considered may seem trivial
to a few. but to many hundreds they are im­
portant because they deal with a serious charge
made by Mr. Clymer.
He contends that ihe use of the Triangle.
with its point downward, is proof that the
AMORC everywhere is an organization de­
voted to the study of black magic, and he there­
fore takes the liberty of labelling AMORC with
the significant aspersion "the blacks.” He also
lays that Dr. Randolph was the first man to
use the old mystical phrase. "Light. Life and
Love." as typical of the three points of the Tri­
angle.
THE USE OF THE TRIANGLE
(a) As stated above, we are face to face here
with a charge that is meant to he very serious,
for the president of the Royal Fraternity Asso­
ciation has purposely made this statement tor
years with the intention of arousing fears, ag­
gravating superstitions, and causing endless un­
rest and nervous excitement.
Every student of real mysticism is always
surprised at Mr. Clymer's statement, however,
for all have seen the beautiful triangle used in
so many ways in connection with religious,
sacred mystical, and ancient philosophies, that
they cannot understand how they ever over­
looked the possibility of it being used in any
form as a symbol of black magic and "devils."
W e all recall that the Jewish symbols contain
the two triangles—with points upward and
downward—as a sacred symbol, and how other
religious bodies have used a similar design.
MANUFACTURED EVIDENCE
Mr. Clymex knew that his statement would
be suspected, so he resorted to "documentary
evidence" to prove his contention. Not beiog
able to find his contention in any dependable
book or manuscript on mysticism or occultism.
28
Mr. Clymer invented his evidence, and then
quoted Jt. Here is the manufactured evidence
he gives on page 208 o( his book on the Rosi-
crucian Order:
" . . . AND W E WISH TO REPER
YOU TO E. LEVI. IN HIS DOC­
TRINE AND RITUAL O F MAGIC.'
T H E M O S T AUTHORITATIVE
BOOK PUBLISHED.
'"T H E PENTAGRAM (OR TRI­
ANGLE) W ITH TW O POINTS IN
TH E ASCENDANT. REPRESENTS
SATAN AS THE GOAT O F THE
SABBATH: W HEN ONE POINT IS
IN TH E ASCENDANT. IT IS THE
SIGN OF THE SAVIOUR. THE
PENTAGRAM IS TH E FIGURE OF
THE HUMAN BODY. HAVING THE
POUR LIMBS AND A SINGLE
POINT R E P R E S E N T I N G TH E
HEAD. A HUMAN FIGURE. HEAD
D O W N W A R D S . NATURALLY
REPRESENTS A DEMON: THAT IS.
INTELLECTUAL S U B V E R S I O N .
DISORDER. OR M ADNESS."'
So said Eliphas Levi—nearlyl You will note
that io the foregoing quotation as given in his
book by Mr. Clymer, the words *'or Triangle"
are inserted on the first line ol the quotation,
right alter the word Pentagram. Who put those
words there? Why. Mr. Clymer. of course.
Why? Because Eliphas Levi was NOT
SPEAKING O F ANY TRIANGLE, but the
Pentagram. You will note that Levi speaks of
the four points representing the limbs and one
point representing the head ol the human body.
Four points and one point make five points, and
no one ever saw a five pointed triangle, except
Mr. Clymer. when he invents it.
TURNING STARS INTO TRIANGLES
So we turn to the great book by Eliphas Levi,
from which Mr. Clymer took some words to
invent a new quotation, and we find the true
words on page 291—-the first page of Chapter
V. And. the words "(or Triangle)" are not in
the original quotation at all! Then we turn to
V»
page 79 of the same book where Mr. Levi de­
votes a chapter to 8 description of the Penta-
fram. and we see a very 8ne picture of this Five
ointed Star with its peculiar symbols lo the
center of the star and part of a human face in
the top point of the star. Not by the wildest
stretch of the most elastic, and inventive, imagi­
nation. can we make a triangle out of that five
pointed star: and even a double, interlaced tri­
angle. would have to have six points!
And on page 144 of the book Levi says this
of the Pentagram: “the emblem of the Penta­
gram. or five pointed star, which {&the absolute
sign of human intelligence."
You may understand now why Mr. Clymer
added the words "(or Triangle)," to another
good man's quotation. It was to "bear false
witness" with manufactured evidence. And in
hundreds of books we find the triangle used
with points either upward or downward, ac­
cording to two phases of manifestations. The
AMORC claims that the triangle with the
point upward is a symbol of material creation.
as illustrated by the sides of the Great Pyra­
mid: and with the point downward the triangle
represents spiritual manifestation on earth.
Hence the symbol of the Rosicrucians is a tri­
angle with the point downward and the Rosy
Cross within it.
THE LAW O F THE TRIANGLE
As just one of hundreds of possible citations,
we will take that from the book entitled. "The
Light of Egypt." by the eminent authority.
Thomas H. Burgoync (Zanoni). In Volume
Two. published in Denver, Colorado, in 1900,
we find on page 77 these words regarding the
Triangle or the symbol of the trine: "the trine
with its apex above, draws its influence from
the celestial, and as it condenses and takes on
form in the trine of matter, It transmits this
same Divine force throuqh its apex which
points below, to matter." (The italics are ours.)
30
This little revelation of manufactured evi­
dence should settle the one point that would
have been serious, if true.
"LIGHT. LIFE. AND LOVE"
(b) As the American branch of the AMORC
using the words "Light. Life, and Love" as the
English form of the old Latin salutation or
"greeting on the three points of the Triangle."
Mr. Clymer says that this phrase belongs to him.
exclusively, and that AMORC is guilty of the
act of "plagiarism of the worst kind."
Thv* claim reminds us of the one that he was
the first in the world to explain the mystery
about Christian Roscnkreuz.
As far as we can trace, the phrase. "Light,
Life, and Love." in either its French. Latin, or
German wording, has been used for centuries
as an original Rosicrucian phrase. It is so old. in
fact, that writers of dictionaries of mystical
phrases and symbols do not attempt to trace its
origin.
However, wc have some references to it that
will show how well known it is in general mys­
tical literature.
There is the book, the subject of mystical
symbolism by E. E. Goldsmith. It Is a very
large and well illustrated compendium. On page
331 we find the phrase of "Light. Life, and
Love" explained, each word being defined, and
part of the explanation quoted from the work
of another eminent writer on mystical symbol­
ism. Evelyn Underhill. And Mme. Blavatsky
in her Secret Doctrine, published many years
ago attempting to give her oriental understand­
ing of the three Latin words, said that to her
they meant 'Tight. Life, and Union." for union
was based on harmony, and love was the law
of harmony. This she interpreted as being one
of the three great principles, and she gave the
numbers of 3. 4 and 7 to the words of the
phrase, just as do all Rosicrucians.
Finally, we have one historical case that sim­
ply settles the whole argument regarding the
Rosicrucian use of the phrase "Light. Life, and
Love." In a vault in the city church of Weimar
lie the remains of Johann Gottfried von Herder.
This man was a very eminent Rosicrucian. and
an officer of the organization, and was held in
high regard by the German people. His passing
was looked upon as a national affair and bis body
was given this honorary place in the city church.
On the casket containing his body was a silver
21
plate bearing the Rosicrucian symbol and un­
der it the Rosicrucian phrase. "Lichte. Lcben.
Lebe." These words of Light. Life, and Love,
were placed on the casket at the time of his
transition in 1803. In the year 1S19 the Duke
Karl August desired to express his appreciation
of this eminent Rosicrucian and he caused to be
erected a cast-iron monument over the vault con­
taining the body of Herder and on this monu­
ment is inscribed the same Rosicrucian phrase of
three words in German. This monument with
this phrase on it can be seen by anyone visiting
that city.
Since Mr. Randolph did not begin to publish
his books until 1873. which was seventy years
after the phrase. "Light. Life, and Love." had
been placed on the casket of Herder, we plainly
see that Mr. Clymer's claim that Randolph was
the first to use that phrase and that ownership
of it through copyright has passed to Mr. Cly-
mer Is absolutely untrue and unfounded, like
the other pointa of his arguments. That settles
the last point of all of the principal arguments
presented by Mr. Clymer in his yellow book, and
which he challenges the entire world to refute.
It must be evident to the readers that wilful
intent to deceive would not lead a man to select
as the principal points of his arguments such
fads as could be so easily disproved. Nothing
short of absolute ignorance of Rosicrucian his­
tory and Rosicrucian facts can explain Mr. Cly­
mer's belief that he invented all of the things
he claims to have invented, and his further be­
lief that his statements of these points arc true.
But such ignorance immediately proves that he
is not a member of the Rosicrucian organization
nor familiar with its manuscripts, its records, or
its history, and therefore, most certainly he can­
not be an officer. least of all a Grand Master of
any real Rosicrucian organization. He does not-
even read the recognized Rosicrucian magazines,
which can be found in the public libraries of
America, otherwise he would have found in one
of them for the moDth of February. 1927. a bio­
graphical sketch of Herder with his picture and
with the whole story of the phrase "Light, Life,
and Love." appearing on Herder's monument.
This was published over a year before he pre­
pared his yellow bonk of challenge and accusa­
tion. Certainly, any man who was keeping
abreast of even the general public information
regarding Rosicrucian activities would not have
put such a claim as this into a public pamphlet
12
in the face of primed evidence to the contrary.
Again we say. nothing but ignorance of Rosicru-
cian facta, history. and documentary evidence
can explain Mr. Clymer’s childlike belief in his
own authority as the Grand Master of the Rosi-
crucians of the wurld. Deception is an innocent
thing in its way. but when the one so deceived
published a pamphlet challenging the world to
contradict his claims or beliefs, the doorway is
flung open wide for the inevitable awakening
that must follow.
Final Remarks
W e have not dealt with personalities, foe
these have no bearing on the matter and are
of no concern. W e are dealing strictly with
principles, and only those principles which bear
directly upon the good name, good work, and
good intent of the Rosicrucian Order generally
in the world.
ÀMORC in America is well established with
its chartered branches in the principal cities, and
with hundreds of groups carrying on the work
without deviating one iota from the ancient
landmarks of: (1) no printed hooks claimed to
contain the Rosicrucian "secret" doctrines: (2)
no commercialism of any kind: (3) no sex teach­
ings or questionable discourses for appeal to
popular superstitions: (4) Egyplian temples or
Lodge rooms in many ciliés. North. East. South,
and West, for ritualistic work and ceremonies
in connection with the higher phases: (5) the
true symbol of the Order for its official emblem
—A Gold Cross with ONE Red Rose in its
center—the ancient and only symbol of the
Rosicrucian principles: (6) a United States Pat­
ent Registration on the Rosy Cross symbol and
the name of the organization. Ancient. Mystical
Order Rosae Crucis. This is the only patent on
this name and symbol in America.
W E MAKE THE FINAL CHALLENGE
Not only do the officers of AMORC in
North America sign this little pamphlet of dis­
cussion. but since Mr. Clymer claims that he
can prove his charges that all Rosicrucian
bodies are clandestine, illegal, and otherwise
illegitimate, and defies the whole wide world to
33
answer his charges, we have submitted to him
the opportunity to prove his statements before
a thousand or more persons in one place, and to
the rest of the wide ivorlj through printed mat­
ter. Thereby the name and good repute of the
Rosicrucinn Order will be defended once again
—as in centuries gone by—and thousands set
aright who are in doubt.
If Mr Clymer really has a message for the
world that will place the history and rights of
the Order beyond any degree of mystery, he
should be given every opportunity to voice it:
hence in all sincerity, and without any malice
or unkindness whatsoever, we have sent to him
the following letter arranging for a debate We
shall await with interest his reply, and make it
known.
Likewise we trust that all our thousands of
members and friends will find in this much
needed outline of historical facts and citations
those points which they have often asked for
in connection with the bibliography of Rosicru-
cisnism and the personnel of its early activities
in Europe.
Respectfully submitted.
H SPENCER LEWIS,
(operator, AMORC of North America.
Ralph M. Lewis.
Supreme Secretary.
AMORC Administration Building.
Rosicrucian Park, San )osc. Calif.
The Letter
June 8. 1928.
Mr. R. Swinburne Clymer.
Dear Sir:
In your recent yellow booklet, in which vou
take opportunity to criticize AMORC. and
condemn it as illegal, clandestine, and guilty of
thievery nod plagiarism, you issue a challenge
to the whole wide world to disprove the state­
ments contained therein.
Vou have also stated in letters to newspapers,
and to inquiters. that you courted the "strictest
investigation." And. for several years, you have
written letters to us stating that you would wel­
come an open investigation of your claims for
yourself. and your charges against us.
Therefore, since you no*»/ challenge the entice
world and thereby include the whole of the
United States, wc are taking you at your word,
and believe that you will not mind traveling a
little distance and affording the thousands of
seekers and inquirers an opportunity to hear
you present your proofs of the charges you make
against us. and at the same time, support your
claims and contentions of your alleged facts.
Therefore, we hereby challenge you to a pub­
lic debate under the following circumstances:
No. I—That the debate be held in the city of
Chicago, because of its central location in this
country, and because it is less than half way
across this country' for you to journey. Or. be­
cause you arc anxious to control all Rosicrucian
activities In California, and have spent consider­
able money in attempting to influence Califor­
nians in their understanding of your sole rights
and authority, the debate may take place in the
city of San Francisco. You may choose either
of these cities.
No. 2—The hall, auditorium, theatre, or other
public place for the debate is to be chosen by
us to accommodate a thousand persons, or what­
ever number we believe will attend, and we will
pay the entire expenses for the rent of the hall
for the night of the debate.
No. 3—You are to argue in person for. and
in behalf of your charges and contentions, and
the writer of this letter will argue and speak in
behalf of AMORC and present counter charges
and defense.
No. 4—You are to present for examination
to any committees of the audience, or to any
dependable, sincere investigator attending the
debate, all such letters, documents, records, or
papers as will show your exclusive right to
maintain nod operate the only true Rosicrucian
Order in America; and you are to submit for
Similar examination all such papers, documents,
or letters as will prove your charges of illegality
and the clandestine nature of AMORC. and its
alleged fraudulent activities in America. And
you arc to bring with you such books of your
teachings and lessons as will show that you
have the genuine Rosicrucian teachings for
sale or distribution through your organization.
And. with the provision that you bring these
things for examination and presentation, the
AMORC will bring similar papers, documents,
books, records, lessons, and so forth, for the
purpose of disproving your contentions, and at
3f
the some time reveol the activities of your organ­
ization and the points of your work, which you
have been careful to conceal from all public
investigation.
No. 5—And you will permit your speech and
argument, as well as my own. to be taken down
in shorthand by a staff of efficient stenographers
whom we will provide, supplemented by any you
wish to provide: and you will also permit your
speeches in the debate, and during the entire
session, to be broadcast by radio, published in
fhe newspapers, and recorded in public maga­
zines.
No. 6—And you will be willing to answer
questions submitted by myself on behalf of our
organization, or submitted by persons who will
attend the debate, just as 1 will be willing to
answer similar questions.
No. 7—Members of our organization, and
members of your organization shall have equal
and first privilege in filling the scats of the audi­
torium or hall for the debate.
No. 8—The debate to be held on some week­
day night, preferably on a Saturday evening,
between the first of October and the first of De­
cember: and you may set the date, which date,
however, may have to be changed by mutual
consent, when the time comes to find the proper
hall and make an engagement with the lessee
thereof.
No. 9—You are to answer this challenge, and
either affirm or deny your intention to comply
therewith, by the first day of July.
This letter, with an explanation of why it is
being sent to you. is being printed by us in a
pamphlet, and will be mailed to thousands of
persons throughout the United States. Mexico.
Canada, and Europe during the next thirty days.
And. if you accept this challenge for a debate.
under oil of the provisions above stated, and
with no exceptions, we will advertise the debate
in a number of large public magazines of this
country, and ihrough many other channels of
nation-wide publicity.
Of course it should be understood, and would
be understood by every sane person, that the
documents, papers, and proofs which you arc to
submit, and which we will submit, will be of a
material, concrete form of matter that is tangible
enough to be photographed and sensed bv the
objective faculties of man: and that no spiritual
evidence for spiritual authority shall be consid-
36
r
ercd tangible and definite in connection with the
material rights and privileges you claim to pos-
sess as head of the only real Rosicrudan Order
in this Country.
Yours very truly.
(Signed) H. SPENCER LEWIS.
Imperator.
CHALLENGE NOT ACCEPTED
NOTE: The foregoing letter was mailed.
registered, on June 8th: and reached Mr. Clymer
June 13th. Did Mr. Clymer accept this oppor­
tunity to have the "whole wide world" disprove
his statements? Not at all! He promptly re­
turned the challenge marked "Refused.” Once
again he has shut the door against any methodi­
cal. public, sincere investigation of his claims,
even though he writes letters to newspapers and
persons, and publishes many pamphlets, boast­
fully statJng "we court the strictest investi­
gation.”
Hence this booklet-our only method of
bringing the facts before the seekers who receive
copies of bis yellow book containing his "chal­
lenge to the wide world."
( Nearlv two years have passed since the first
edition of this book was printed, and Mr. Cly­
mer goes merrily on with his round the world’
challenge like a rider on a merry go round, as if
unaware of the fact that thousands know he
refused to prove his contentions.)
A POSITIVE STATEMENT
The folfowinq statement of the origin and au­
thenticity of AMORC. the Rosicrucian Order
of North America, is composed of statements
which have appeared tn black and white in our
literature and magazine for the past twenty
years, and in some documents signed and sealed
by a notary in the form of an affidavit. Our
members will note that there is no evasion or
element of equivocation in any part of this offi­
cial statement.
37
The word AMORC is composed of the initials
of the complete and legal name of the Rosicru-
cian Brotherhood in many lands, vit.. The
Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucae. The
Latin equivalent of this is ANTIQUA AR-
CANAE ORD1NIS ROSAE RUBEAE ET
AUREAE CRUCJS. Jn some Lind* the Latin
name is abbreviated by the initials A.A.O.R R.-
A.C., or by A.A O. for a short and veiled sym­
bol of the name. The organization in North
America is the only authorized, sponsored, and
universally recognized branch of the ancient
original Rosicrucian Brotherhood still existing
in all lands and perpetuating the original Rosi-
crucian Brotherhood. The AMORC in North
America is likewise the only Rosicrucian move­
ment in America affiliated with the International
Council of Rosicrucians and having represen­
tation in the International Congresses or con­
ventions of the Rosicrucian Order throughout
the world. The AMORC of North America is
affiliated with the Rosicrucian Order in other
lands and is the only movement of a Rosicrucian
nature in America having universal affiliation
with the foreign Rosicrucian movements per­
petuating the original Rosicrucian teachings,
practices, ideals, and principles. The AMORC
of North America is not only chartered under
various state laws as a fraternity, a college, and
a university, but it holds the only United States
patent on the true symbol of the ancient Rosi-
crucians, which consists of a gold cross with a
single red rose in its center. {Imitations of this
symbol in the form of a cross with a garland of
roses or a group of roses around it In no way
resemble the original Rosicrucian emblem, which
throughout all antiquity and in every historical
document cootains but one rose in the center of
the cross. The Esoteric and Exoteric significance
of the symbol and of the name of the organisa­
tion is entirely lost when imitations of the sym­
bol contain more than one rose.) The AMORC
of North America is in correspondence with and
in friendly fraternal relationship with all of the
established Rosicrucian branches of the world,
including the one in Germany, which has an un­
broken line of descent from the first Christian
Rosenkxeuz organization in that country. The
38
AMORC of North America la the only Rosi-
crucian movement In America having such tt-
lationship. The AMORC of North America
does not publish books claiming to have the sec­
ret teachings or claiming to contain the Roslcru-
cian rituals or any other matter that is part of
the private teachings and practices of the Rosi-
crucians. The publication and sale of books of
this nature have always been forbidden by the
true organization, and publishing houses, per­
sonally organized groups, or movements pub­
lishing and offering for sale such kind of Rosl-
crucian matter, cannot have any connection with
the genuine organization. The AMORC of
North America maintains temples, lodge rooms,
libraries, and laboratories in various cities of the
United States. Canada, and Mexico, in accord­
ance with the ancient principles of the organi­
zation. and the AMORC is the only Roiicrucian
movement in America established and operating
In tb/s manner in all parts of the country. It
does not sell its teachings, but gives them freely
to the members who are affiliated with the Order,
and docs not deal In astrology, fortune telling,
crystal gazing, or similar uDscientiflc practices,
and does not teach the existence of invisible
entities, salamanders, or evil spirits, which are
claimed to take possession of the human body
or the consciousness, and is not an organization
of fanaticism or extreme persona) philosophy in
any sense. By all of these distinguishing ele­
ments. our members are able to recognize the
fact that the AMORC is the only Rosicrucian
movement in America actually perpetuating the
ancient fraternity, and serious investigators of
the history and origin of the organization will
be shown, at the National Headquarters of San
Jose, the official magazines, literature, correspon­
dence. and documents of various foreign Rosi-
Crucian organizations as they exist throughout
the world today. Any claim (hat these foreign
branches are inactive, difficult to locate by the
sincere seeker, or unknown to the public of each
country is à misstatement of fact, which can be
proved by the documents available at our Head­
quarters.
These statements are officially made by the
members of the Supreme Council of AMORC
for North America.
39
