{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1842__buell_sizer___guide_to_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"Guide To Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
A
GUIDE TO PHRENOLOGY,
OESICNEl>
TO ILLUSTIUTC THE '-CJE:>;tE or THE JI U~JA:s" 1\llSD A~ l!Ul'H·
f.'E~TEV THROUGH T il E BR.US,
£~U3JUCI:-IG
THE FUNDAMENTAl PRIN
CIPLES OF PHRENOLOG
Y;
lT~ lJTILIT\" TO PAltENfS \SD 1'£.,\CHF.RS I~ IH:YI:T.OPil\G AND
Ellt,;C\TI:\G TilE l\IE:\'1 \L l ACl LTIJ:s Of' 'lUE HI3UiG
c; ESl'IU.TJO.'I1 .\.NV or SJ:Lf' 1\fPROVE\It.:~'n,
TOGi.l HEll
W ITH THE ADAP TAT ION OF J:AC JI 01-' TUI: ORGANS At\1> t.
PHRENOLOGICAL CHART,
ILLUSTRATED DY ENGRAVINGS.
.
Bv P. L. BUELL & N. S IZ ER,
PHRENOLOGISTS.
Fint Bdiliou.
\V 0 0 D s T 0 c K ' vT • :
p R I r\ T E D B Y H \ S K E L I. A N V P A L ~J E It ·
( Jfcrcury P ress.)
1842.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1642,
Dv P. L. BuELL AND N. SIZER,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of 1\Iassachusettl>.
PREFACE.
In presenting this work to the public, the authors have aimed
at perspicuity and utility.
They have felt the necessity of some work whi<·h should come
witl1in the reach vf all, embracing the general outlines of the sci-
ence of phrenology, with its application to the education of chil-
dren, and the training and cultivation of the mental powers of the
student, so a.rrangccl as to interest, while it instructs.
Most of the valuable worl<s on phrenology extant, are large
and expensive, and not sufficiently practical for populur utility,
and hence, the) do not find way ·to the great mass of the Ameri-
can public.
The invaluable works of Drs. Gall and Spmzl1eim, 1\fr. Combe,
Fowler and others, are loved and prized as they richly merit by
all who have carefully perused them ; but coruparati\·~ly few will
buy a large (ana necessarily costly) volume, however valuable.
Moreover, several excellent works have been published by plne-
nologist~, presenting detached parts of the science, and t]lC books
being small they met a ready purchase, but, "-hen the readers dis-
co•cr that they have only a part of the suhjcct, they are dissatis-
fied.
The frequent application for a synopo<:>is of phrenology impart-
ing a general view of the whole subject, and the means of ex-
paneling the minds of the young, and directing them in the path
of virtue and peace, bas induced us to write the fo11owing wor1<,
amid tho cares, duties and labors, of traYeling and lecturing to
promulgate among our countrymen a science, rich with all that
can ennoble the human race, and which, when fully understood
and universally applied, will bring that reign ofYirtue and intel.
ligence which causes the philanthropic soul to leap with joy, in
anticipation of it~ bright dawn. P. L. BUELL,
NELSON SIZER.
Dec. 1842.
NAl\IES OP 'l'llE riiR'CNOLOGICAL ORGAN~.
l Amauvcn<'ll",
2 Philo11ro!!~nttivcncsl',
3 Adhc--n•cness,
4 Inbahiti,·enc~...,
~ Conccntrnti\ cnr·~~,
6 Combativcnt·,.,;,
7 Dc~;truc tivem·~~.
8 Alirnc•ntiveru·~><,
~ Acquisiti\·ctu·s..:,
10 Sccrt·tinnt."'"•
11 Cautitmsnes.:,
J2 Arrrollntivcnc~!=,
13 Self-E\o.teem,
l1 Firmnes,.,
1~ Con..,cicntiousness.
lti Hope,
17 :\lan·ellousnes~.
18 Yt•ncration,
19 fll•nt·vc•lence,
~~~ l 'nn~tructin:ne::;~,
~~ Ttlealitr,
2-2 t:uhlinutr,
!:!:l Iuut:\twn,
2-1 ;\Iiithfulnel';:,
25 lnchndualitv.
26 Fonu, ·
2i ~t'lC,
23 Weight.
29 Color,
30 Ortlr·r,
31 :'\lunbl r,
3"2 Localily,
3:J Evcntualit,·,
34 Tnne, •
3!'i Tune,
36 Lananaac,
:n Compari,nn,
3"' Cau-.ality,
.\ . Uumnn N:Hnn•,
B. ~ua' itivenc :-s1
C l'niou for L1fe,
GENERAL OBSERV.-t.Tl<tNS~
to these favorable arrangements in organization. This
rloctrine, recognizes and explains the reasons of the dif-
fet·e•lces that exist between different species of animals~
t)etween animals and the human race, and also that which
rxists between different members ofthe gtnus lwmo. This
.superiority of physical apparatus, acting as a medium of
mental manifestation, gives man his supremacy over the
brute creation. 'VhiJe beasts have just sufficient mental
Raga')ity to reproduce, protect themselves, and provide for
their natural wants; man, not only manifests the same
nnimal propensities, (he desires food, propagates, protects
himself and offspring, and these feelings are, in their na-
ture precisely like those manifested by beasts) but he
stretches far beyond this. The searching glance of his
intellect ranges among the stars: by its power he directs
the lightning's fiery shaft, rides unharmed upon the hea,·-
mg billows, perforates the earth for its wealth, employs
the eJements to minister to his wants and sene his pur-
poses, exterminates animals which endanger his exist-
f'nce, or tames their ferocity and directs their power to
l1is service.
\Vhy does feeble man direct superior power? '\Vhy,
puny as he is, can he be truly called the lord of the cre-
ation 7 This power exists in intellect and human reason.
In addition to reason, man's moral sense is a distin-
guishing characteristic of his nature.
The inferior animals, haYe not by nature any concep-
tion of a God, neither can they be taught to feel moral
obligation; yet man, throughout the world, howerer de-
based, barbarous or ignorant he may be, is found to pos-
sess an idea of a Supreme and o-rerruling Power, and a
sentiment to worship that Being.
.Man, is by nature a religious being; \vas created with a
design that he should manifest a religious char(lcter, and
for that end, was endowed with the 01·gans of the moral
sentiments, through the medium of which alone, can he
apprehend a God, or feel an obligation to obey His 1aw.s.
Little fear need be entertained that rehgion "ill en~r
become extinct, for it fo.rms a part of man's nature, as
.anuch ilS a sense ofpain, or the appetite for food.
..l portion of the brain is allotted to the manifestation
..
I'RI~CII•LF.S OF PHRENOLOGY. 7
of the moral sentiments in the present life-beasts are
destitute of brain in the same recr10n ancl the moral feel-
. . I o ,
mgs are entue y wanting.
If the n?anifestations of mind~ in its variouR powers
and facultt~s, hav.e a~y connection with the phy:sical ap-
paratus, With wl11ch 1t stands related it becomes of the
first importance to clisenss the laws of it action ancl the
m~ans of i.rnprO\·.ing the one and clcvelopiug the ~ther.
The science ts ba~ecl upon a few general principle:a
and professe~ to be a system of mental philo::~ophy.
PRINCIPLES OF PHRENOLOGY.
The term Pnn.E~OLO<>Y, is derived from the Greek
words, phren, (mind,) and logos, (c.lisconrse,) "hich sig-
nify, a discourse or trcati:se on the mind.
I . The brain is the instrument of the mental mani-
festations; the organ through "·hich the minu acts in
performing all its operations in the present life.
II. The mind is not a distinct power, but i-: com-
posed of many faculties; and different parts of the brain.
serve as the special organs of those various facultie:s.
III. The size of the brain as a whole, or of the seY-
cral o1·o-ans in particnlnr, is a measure of power in the
gC'ucrat'or special mental manifestations.
IV. The tempc1·amcnt, or physiological con~titution
of the body, gi\cs ch~racter. to !he tcxt~ue, co.mpactncss
and acti,·ity of the brmn, wh1ch 1s :slugg1sh, ac.tn.e. ::.trong
or excitable accordingly: and tlms exerts much mtiuence
in strengthening aud modil)'ing the powers of mental ac-
tion.
V. Bxercisc, strcngthcng and enlarge:' the brain 111
aeneral or the several~orrram; in particular.
b , 0
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS .
The student of !laturc finds pleasure and profit, ns well
a.s matter of astomshmcnt, at every step of his im·estiga-
tions.
lfhe examines the arrangement ofphysical nature, ani-
mate and inanimate, he discovers a system of perfect or-
d~r,. har~ony and beauty, which speaks a language of
stJrrmg mterest.
This system of order is maintained, not only in respect
to mere inert matter, but through the various genera of
animals, up to the highest moral and intellectual constitu,.
tion ofman.
Each species of animals is governed by laws suited to
its constttution, and a sphere of action aJJotted to each,
which they can never transcend.
Water, is the element of the finny tribes, and pregerva~
tion of self is supposed to be the height of their abilities.
Their brain is soft, smn11, and simple. (See the adapta-
tion of Destructiveness.)
There seems to be an elevation of mental power from
the inert chrysalis, and stupid toad, through the long cat-
alogue of animals up to man.
The nenous system of animals, including the brain,
is more complicated, increased in volume and fineness of
texture, in proportion as they advance upward in the
scale of intelligence.
The fox, has four times as mur,h brain as the wood-
chuk, (while their bodies are of about e<lual size) and
his int..eJiectual faculties are manifested in an equal com'!
parative degree of superi.ority. This.chain of gra.dation
is perfect in the ascend1~1g scale of mtefl1genc~ m the
lower anj.mals till ,...e arrne to th~ h\lman spectcs; nor
does it stop at its first _entra.nce here: it is continue~} un~
broken, to the highest mtelltgence on earth; who \nil be
found in possession, not only of a large and well propor...
tioned constitution throughout, but a large, compact, and
active brain. His intellectual superiority is attributable,
1*
BRAIN, TilE OltGA.N OF 1\IIND. 9
removed or the injury healed. No such effects result
f~om a dis~ase, o~ an injury of other parts of the bo(ly, un·
tll such d1sease IS communicated to the brain; and then
the .mental affection is in proportion to the disease of th~
bram, and not to the disease ofthe body.
Numerous facts are before the world, (and there are
few persons of middle life who cannot relate instances of
their own observation) which go to prore, that a hlow
upon the head and pressure upon the brain, cause insani-
ty, or a state of unconsciousness, and thereby proving he-
Y?nd a doubt, that the mind employs the urain as the me-
<.hum o~ its manifestati0n. From among the many we
transcnbe a few instances from 1\Ir. Combe's works
dra·wn from various sources, to "·it: 'Dr. Niel Arno1t,
in lus recent work on Natural Philo5opl1y, writes thus:,
"Fe,·cr, or a blow upon the head "viii change tl1c most
gifted individual into a maniac, causing the lips of virgin
innocence to utter the most revolting obscenity, awl tl10~e
of pure religion, to speak the most horrible blasphemy;
an<.l most cases of madness and eccentricity can now be
traced to a peculiar state of the brain."
"M. Richerand had a patient whose brain was exposed
in consequence of disease of the skull. One day, itl
washing off the purulent matter, he chanced to ptess with
more than usual force; and instantly the patient, who,
the moment before, had ans·wered his questions '\ ith per·
feet correctness, stopped short in the middle of a sen·
tence, and became altogether insensible. As the pres·
sure gave her no pain, it was repeated thrice, and always
with the same result. She uniformly recovered her fa..
culties the moment the pressure was taken o[. l\1. Rich·
erand mentions also the case of an individual who was
trepanned for a fracture ofthe skull, and whosu faculties
and consciousness became weak in proportion as the pus
so accumulated under the d1 e:ssmgs as to oceaoion t1res~
sure of the brain. A man at the battle of 'Vaterloo had
a small portion of his skull beaten in up~n the brain, and
became quite unconscious and almost hfele~s; bu,t l\Ir.
Cooper having raised up the cepressed P?rt10n of bonel
(he patient immediately arose, dressed ~umself, became
perfectly rational, and recoYered rap1dly. ProfessO\
10 BRAIN, THE ORGAN OF MIND.
Chapman, of Philadelphia, mentions in his Lectures, that
he saw an individual with his skull perforated and the
brain exposed, who used to submit himself to the same
experiment of pr.essure as that performed on Richerand's
patient, and who wa:5 exhibited by the late Professor Wes-
tar to his class. The man's intellect and moral faculties
disappeared when pressure was applied to the brain : they
were literally "held under the thumb," and could be re-
storea at pleasure to their full activity. A still more re-
markable case is that of a person named Jones, recorded
by Sir Astley Cooper. This man was deprived of con-
sciousness, by being wounded in the head while on board
a vessel in the lHediterranean. In this state of insensibil-
ity he remained for several months at Gibraltar, whence
he was transmitted to Deptford, and subsequently to St.
Thomas's Hospital, London. 1\lr. Cline, the surgeon,
found a portion of the skull depressed, trepanned him,
and rflmoved the depressed part of the bone. Three
hours after this operation he sat up in bed, sensation and
volition returned, and in four days he was able to get up
and converse. The last circumstance he rernembend
was the capture of a prize in the Mediterranean thirteen
months before. A young man at Hartford, in the United
States of America, \\'as rendered insensible by a fall, and
had every appearance ofbeing in a dying condition. Dr.
Brigham removed more than a gill of clotted blood from
beneath the skull; upon which "the man immediately
spoke, soon recovered his mind entirely, and is now, six
weeks after the accident, in good health both as to mind
and body."
A lady in Kentucky, received a blow upon the head
from an Indian's tomahawk, which so much affected the
scalp and skull that they never united, leaving the brain
bare, as large as a half dollar.
The family physician often amused his friends by an
experiment upon her brain, showing the necessity of the
action of that organ, in the manifestation of reason and
consciousness. lie would press upon her brain with a
silk handkerchief, when she would instantly cease speak..
ing in the middle of a sentence, and remain unconscious
as long as the Doctor applied the gentle pressure, some-
8 DRAIN, THE ORGAN OF MIND.
I. TnE BRAIN IS TllE ORGAN OF THE MIND.
That mind and matter act together, and have a mode
of connection and co-operation, is S(:;}f el"ident; but /zow
this is effected, is not our province, as it is not in our
power to decide. The brain is believed to be the medi-
um of the union of spirit and matter, for many reasons.
First. All the nerves, (except those n·hich govern res-
piration and act independently of reason) '"·hich serve as
communicating and controlling agents to the ,..-hole body,
arise in the brain, and point to it as the great seat of sensa-
tion from without, and diffuse motion and energy through
the body, in obedience to the understanding.
The nerves of motion, and nerves of sensation are mi-
nutely ramified throughout the extremities of the body,
and if \Ve sever those nen'es in the arm so as to destroy
their connection with the brain, all power of motion and
feeling ceases, and the hand may then be lacerated, or
burned, without the least sensation. The arms may be
amputated, and the spine affected, so that the lower ex..
tremities of the body would be helpless, and sti11 the mind
continue to act.
Second. Positire evidence is furnished by the fo11ow-
ing considerations, that the brain is the delicate appara-
tus designed by the Creator, to control the body, mani-
fest tl1e mind, and be the scat of the soul or immortal
spirit.
'Vhere there is no brain, there is no manifestation of
mind; and reason and other mental faculties, are mani-
fested in proportion to the size and perfection of the cere-
bral mass; and this is true, not only in respect to man,
but the same unvarying law is cnrricd throughout the nu-
merous tribes of animals from the crawling reptile to the
ournng-outang.
IdiotR, also, are very deficient in the front part of the
head which is usually very small, or, when this is not the
case, it is paralyzrd by disease or enlarged by hydro..
cephali. (See cuts of Dr. Gall and Idiot.)
Tlti1·d. If the brain be compressed or injured, there
is a corresponding s uspen~ion o:the mental faculties; and
consciousness and refler.tion return, when the pressure is
12 PLUR.\LITY OF FACULTIES AND ORGANS.
lmown, every function is performed by a distinct and ap·
propriate oro-an. The stomach is adapted to the function
of digestion~the heart to propel the blood, the liver to
secrete bile, the lungs to perform the office of respiration,
the eye to see, the ear to hear, the tongue to taste, &c.
These several faculties can be performed by no other or-
gans; no one can answer the end of any other-the eye
cannot hear, nor the ear see.
The tongue, it is true has a triple function, viz: tasting,
feeling and motion ; and dissection proves that its nerves
are multiplex, either of which class being severed, one of
the functions is extinguished, while the others remain;
thus showing that, in respect to the functions of the ani·
mal economy, one, and but one, is performed by a single
organ. Each class of nen e~, al\\ ays performs a distinct
and homogeneous class of functions.
If we may be allowed by analogy to carry this unifor-
mity of action to the brain, we might rea::;onably expect
that there "·ould be distinct organs for each of the facul-
ties of
"Love, hope, and joy, fair pleasure's smiling train;
Hate, fear, and grief, the family of pain;
'Vltich, mixed with art, and to due bound" confined,
1\fa.kc and maintain tlw balance ofthe mind:
The li~hts and .;hade,, who,e weJl accorded strife
Gi' e all the strength and color ofour life."
Secondly. Partial Genius, proves that the mind has
a plurality of faculties.
That the mind docs not act as an unit, or as one pri-
mary prm cr, the whole mind being necessary to the per-
formance of each and c\·ery mental operation; is now
very gcncraiiy admitted.
If this were so, every person should manife:-;t an equal
amount of talent upon all subjects. Each student should
succeed equally well in every department of literature and
science. The poet, should be as good a painter, sculp-
tor, mechanic, musician, mathematician, or orator; and
every orator should be a poet; e\·ery mathematician a
sculptor, and every mechanic, a musician, &c., but,
Benjamin West painted without instruction, and against
the wishes and threats of his parents and teachers; 1\Io-
PLURALITY OF ~\~CULTlES AND ORCANS. 11
times for the space of twenty minutes, when, on removing
the pressure she would complete the sentence with the
same tone ofvoice, and the same animation ofcountenance
and gesture as it was commenced, without knowing that
her remarks had been suspended.
The brain is given to man for some useful purpose, and
when we find that any considerable want of brain or a
diseased state of, or pressure upon it, affect the power
and action of the mind, and that no such results follow
an injury of any part of the body-and when we reflect
t~at the perfection of the !>Owers of vision, of digestion,
cuculation, common sensation and muscular motion, are
always in proportion to the perfection of their respective
organs; and that, in a similar manner, a certain ::;tate of
the brain is necessary to the healthy action of the mind,
we must inevitably conclude that the brain is given as
the apparatus of mental action. 'Ve believe, therefore,
that every passion and mental emotion; the judgment,
imagination, memory, will, and moral sense, or by what-
ever names they may be called, find their medium of
manifestation through the brain.
If the mind be connected with the brain, and if it can
be correctly studied, only in connection with that organ;
of how much importance is the science of Phrenology as
a basis for a correct system of mental philosophy.
The mental philosophy of past time, has been reared
without a connection with organization, and hence, the
diverse and contradictory opinions in regard to the laws
and faculties of the mind, and "the melancholy truth, that,
independent of phrenology, no mental philosophy suited
to practical purposes exists."
II. PLUR.~LITY OF THE 1\IENTAL FACULTIES AND ORGANS.
?tlany persons ~re willing to a~mit (wh~t some few
deny) that the bram as a whole, actmg as a smgle.organ,
is the instrument of the mind; who deny, that different
portions of the brain arc allotted to the m~nifes~ation ?f
the various mental faculties. A few cons1derat10ns wlll
set this matter at rest.
First. Throughout the physical system, so far as it is
PLURALITY OF FACUL'flES A~D ORCANS. 13
v.art composed music at the age of four years; Watts,
Pope, and others, compo~ed good poetry when children,
and \Vatts, while hi!:> father was in the act of whipping
hirn for rhyming, begged for mercy iu poetic langunge.
Zerah Colburn, calculated numbers with asloni!;hing
celerity ; was a genius in that; but never manifested su,
periority in other respects; and Patrick H enry, was an
orator hy nature. These examples arc suflicicnt to show,
that some minds, arc either all poetry, mechanism, sculp·
turc, oratory, &c., or else that the mind is possessed of a
plurality of faculties, and that a ,·ery great endowment of
one faculty or class of faculties, constitutes the genius;
and theoe faculties modified in infinite variety, give all
the di..·crsity of character and talents, that distiuguish the
dit1<!rcnt members of the human race.
Tltirdly. Partial insanity, as well as partial genius,
also proves that the mind has many distinct faculties.
Some persons arc insane on the subject of property,
and imagine that they possess all the ,...ealth in the "or!d.
In Dec. 1838, one of the authors, (l\Ir. Buell,) examined
the head of a lady ncar Philadelphia, who imagined that
she owned the city, and that the Girard College was be-
ing built for her special accommodation. Com·crc;c with
her for hours on any other subject and she was perff!cllj
rational and intelligent, and no one would discover the
slightest aberration of intellect; but, speak of houses and
land~, and she would lay claim to the whole unirer,e and
pretend to own it all. in the same year, a man resided
in the town of Darby, six miles from Philadelphia, who
was insane on the same subject, and perfectly sane on all
others. He imagi11ed that the United States go,·crnment,
owed him $200,000, aud he annually Yisited \Vashing-
ton ami conversed with the President, 1\le"srs. Clay, Cal-
houn, and others, on the subject of his claim. In Suf-
field, Conn., there is a lady who is yery intelligent, and
sane on all subjects but that of property. She thinks
she owns eYery farm in town, and directs her conduct
and con\'ersation accordingly.
There is at this moment (Dec. 7th, 184~,) in the Court
House at \Voodstock, Vt., a young woman who accumu-
lated some property in the factories at Lowell, l\lass.,
~
-
14 PT,URALITY OF FACULTIES AND ORGANS.
which, by some means she has lost. She became insane
on that subject, and regularly attends the courts, alledg-
ing that a certain person has obtained her property by
fraud, and she thinks her cause is in court, at which she
expects to recover her property. The Rev. .Mr. Packer
of Mount Holley, Vt., related to us the following fact.
He visited the Vermont Insane Hospital at Brattleboro',
and held an animated conversation with a fine looking
gentleman in one of the rooms, and on retiring, inquired
of a third person, who the gentleman was, with whom he
had been conversing, and \vhy he was in the hospital?
The person replied, "go back and ask him, who ought to
be President ofthe United States.'' lie did so, and the
man raved in a moment and said, "I, I, OU!jht to be Pres-
ident," showing a disease of the organ of self esteem.
In· 1830, one of the writers, (l\lr. Buell) examined the
head of a lady in Madison, Geauga (now Lake) County,
Ohio, who imagined that she had committed the uupm·-
donable sin, and that for her, there was no hope. The
organs of Caution and Conscientiousness nere t•e,·y large,
and Hope but motlerately de\·eloped. She was sane on
every subject but that of religion, which indicated a dis-
ease of Conscientiousnes!'.
\Ve examined the head of a m:m in the Alms house of
the city of\Vilmington, Del. in 18·t0,who had predominant
self-esteem, who openly declared that ltc was the Su-
preme Being, and hence, would put forth no effort for a
livelihood.
Dr. Rockwell, Superintendent of the Vermont Insane
Hosp•tal, related to us in July 1842, many interesting
cases of partial in~anity, proving the truth of the plural-
ity of the meutal faculties.
'Of folie raisonnante, Pinel thus speaks :'-((Hospitals
for the insane arc never without some examples of mania,
marked by acts of extravagance, or e\ en of fury, with a
kind ofjudgment preserved in all its integrity, if we judge
of it by the conversation; the lunatic gives the most just
and precise answers to the questions of the curious; no
incoherence of ideas is discernible; he reads and writes
letters as if his understanding were perfectly sound; and
yet, by a singular contrast) he tears in pieces his clothes
PLURALiTY OF rACULTICS AND ORGA~~. 15
nnd bed covers, and a] wa} s finds some plausible reason
to justify bts wandering aml fury. This sort of mania is
so far from rare, that the vulgar name of folic raison-
nante has been given to it.''-p. 93. 'Another equally
interesting case from the same author may be cited.'
''It is difficult to concei,e,'' says he, "the nature of one
.species of alienation of mind. It consists, as it were, of
a combination of reason and extravagance, of discern-
ment and actual delirium, which appear so inconsistent
as reciprocally to exclude each other. One lunatic, whose
malady is ofseven years' stantling, is perfectly aware of
bis state, and forms as sound a judgment of it, as if it
were a thing \\-hich ditl not immediately concern himself.
He tries to make efforts to free him~elf from it; but, on
the other hand, he is cOiwinced that it is incurable. If
nny one remarks the incoherence in his ideas iu his talk-
ing, he readily acknowledges it, but answers, that his in-
clination orerpowers him so much, that he cannot but
submit. He adds, that he docs not guarantee the sound-
ness of the judgments which he forms, but thnt it is not
in hi::. power to rectify them. He believes, for example,
that if he wiped his nose, that organ would remain iu his
handkerchief; that H he :shaved himself, he must of ne-
cessit)' cut his throat, and that, at the first attempt to
wnlk, his legs "ould ur£'ak like glass. lie sometimes
~ubjects himselfto rig01ous abstinence for se\eral days,
under the Impression, that if he took aliments, they \\Ould
suffocate l.im. w·hat are we to think of an aberration
CJf intellect so regular and so singular 7'' p. 94. ~
11
he records of insane hospitals would furnish volumes
CJf facts such as these, showing partial alienation of the
mental powers. How can we reconcile the5e facts with
the idea, that Gne organ manifests all the mental func-
tions1 If so, why does that organ manifest one, but not
n•er.11 facult}?
Fvurtltllf· Dreamin<T, or incompiete sleep, is inconsis-
• 0
tent with the supposition that the mind is but one special
faculty; for, it would be as a whole, either awake or asleep
at the same time. An imperfect state of sleep, must be
~Combe's System of Phrenology, Bo~ton Ed. p. 17-18,
16 PLURALITY OF FACULTIES AND ORGANS.
accounteJ for on the hypothesis of a plurality of mental
faculties; else, our dreams should be as consistent as our
wakeful reflections; in fact, there could no such phenom-
enon as dreaming take place.
Fiftltly. Partial idiocy, often occurs where the per-
son manifests one, or more ofthe mental powers in an ex-
traordinary degree, while destitute, to a very <rreat extent
of power to manifest all the rest. The tal~nts which
such persons manifest are as various as the faculties of
the mind. Some have the talent for music. 'Ve have
the skull of such an one, and the organ of tnne is large
and the skull very thin over the organ, and very thick in
other places, showing an acti\·ity of that part of the brain.
Some are kind, others crueL
At Blandford, 1\Iass., there resides a person with whom
we are well acquainted, who has a small head and is des-
titute of common sense, and has always been under guar-
dianship; yet he possesses the talent of chronological
memory in a state of perfection, unequalled by any man
of our acquaintance, and perhaps in the union. At Al-
stead, N. H., in the summer of 1842, we examined the
head of a man who has an excellent memory of events
and localities, a fair talent for music, some mechanical
ability and a great lo\·e of property, yet he does not know
what things are valuable, kuows no difference bet\\ een a
dollar and a cent, is called a fool and cannot take care
of himself. His head indicates his true character.
Sixt!tly. The di\'ersity of human character and tal-
ents, presents to the daily observer sufficient proof ou this
point. How often do persons of good general ability,
c-omplain of a want of some kind of memory, say of col-
ors, (see the adaptation of the organ of color) places,
countenances, names, verbal memory or want of lan-
guage, events, dates, &c., or a want of the talent for mu-
sic, mechanism, or the power to compute by numbers.
The celebrated 1\Ir. Geo. Combe, stated in his lectures
at N. York, "that he never could learn the multiplication
table.'' Now, it is true that he is an educated man, has
practiced law for more than twenty years, and all who
have read his writings will pronounce him a philosopher,
and yet a boy of five years of age is l1is superior in res.
PLURALITY OF ORGANS. 17
pect to nu mbcrs: indeed, if allltis faculties were as weak
as thic:, he would be idiotic.
Thus facts and arguments might be mulliplicd ad in-
finitum, r-;howing the imprcgnab1l ity of our present posi-
tion. 'Vhy is there such mental phenomena as pnrtial
genius, parttal iusanity, partial idiocy, dreaming and the
general diversity of character and talents 'l They can be
accounted for on no other ground than the plurality of
the mental facullies, and the possibility of possessing a
strong endowment of one or more of the faculties, cou..
temporarily with all the others deficient.
PLURALITY OF TilE MENTAL ORGANS.
Since the brain is the organ of the mind and as it has
been shown1 tho mind is not a distinct power, but com-
po:;ed of a plurality of faculties, and also, that in the
corporeal organization, no one orgau is known to per-
form more than one of11ce or function ; it follows by par-
ity of reasoning, that the brain is a congeries of organs,
equal in nutnber to the faculties of the mind; that each
organ of the brain is constituted the ~pecia1 agent for the
manifestation of its appropriate and distinct mental power.
The heads of the two sexes are unlike in shape which
the obsencr readil.r discovers. The Jove of children
which predominates in females is always observed to be
coucomitnnt with au elongation of the back part of the
heart. (Sec cuts.) Similar ovidence is afforded iu res..
pcct to all the SC'\CraJ organs \\hich arc considered as es-
tablished, as well as by obsen·ing the different classes of
organs.
Such men as Franklin, Cuvior, Bacon, Locke, Bona...
parte, Finney and \Vebster, arc largely developed in the
forehead; while men of inferior minds down to perfect
idiots hanl a small anterior de\·clopmcnt. Compare the
hicrh upward de,elopmcnt of 1\lelanclhon and Gall, in
co~ltt•ast with that of Pope Alexander VI, and morality,
or the want of it, will be found to accompany the two
story, ancl the ouc story heads. 'Vhen the head is very
broad at it:J base in proportion to its height, resembling
that of the tiger and other carnivorous animah>, we find
0*
fW
18 SIZE A MEASURE OF POWER.
the animal propensities predominant in the character.
1\Ioreover, different faculties of the mind appear at dif-
ferent periods of life, and one by one becomes weakeued,
or disappears in age, while others remain entire. Patho-
logical evidence may be cited in proof of the plurality of
the mental organs. N nmerous instances are on record,
\.vhere inJuries haYe been received upon particular por-
tions of the head, thereby producing an unnatural ac-
tion of the faculties, whose organs were injured. 'Ve
beg to refer the reader to ':Fowler's Re\'iew of Dr. Ham-
iIton's lecture" in the Phrenological Journal, Vol. IV. p.
87, also a statement of the case of E. Sprague, of Deer-
field, Mass., by the authors, Phren. Jour. Vol. IV, p. 207.
III. SizE (ccete1·is patibus) rs A l\IEAS'CRE OF POWER.
This principle holds good in respect to a11 bodies com-
posed of the sanw kind of materiaL The strength of
iron and wood, or any other substance, is calculated by
its size; but, when the conditions are unequal, an allow-
ance is made for the inequality, to arrire at the true or
comparative power of the object.
Large vital organs, or a large muscular system in man
and animals, is a measure of ,-ital and muscular energy.
Select fifty men of large size, indiscriminately, and fifty
who arc only ofmPdinm size, and the large ones will uni-
formly possess a maJority of physical power. The slme
experiment would produce a similar result respecting the
size of heads. If the brain be the organ of mind, and size
as a general law is a measure of power, then, the larger the
brain, the more powerful should be the mental manifesta-
tion<:<. \Vhen we compare the brain of birds aud quad-
rupeds, \Ve find mental sagacity in proportion to the size
of brain compared with the gross bulk of the animaL-
The fox, as has before yeen obs~n·ed, has four times as
mnch brain as the woodchuk, while their bodies are
nearly equal in size, but the mental sagacity is vastly
different.
Those species of dogs which arc Ycry sagacious, ha\'e
a much larger brain in front, than those which are stupid
and untractable. The brain of the turkey iii one third
StZE A MEASURE OF 1'0\\'EP.. 19
less in size than that of the crow, and all know the stu-
pidity .of the forruer, an1l the sagacity ot the latter. \Ve
have, 111 our cal>inet, the skull of a Iaroe ~lar) land horse,
which '' eighed fourteen hundred po~nds, aucl the cere-
bral cn\·ity contain~ only onepint. \rc mcar.meu the skt:ll
of a man of common size, who probably clid not exceed
one· hundred and fifty pounds in weight, and it contnincd
fmlr pi11ts. Thus, m:m pos~cs~cs more than Lltirly seren
times as much brain as the horse, in proportion to his ab-
~olute bulk, wllich i'-l, on phrenological principle!', n sufli-
cicnt solution of the question, u·!ty man has more intel-
lectual cnpacity than urast:;; by which I O\\ cr he i::s ena-
bled to control them. l\loreo,·cr, those convolution~ of
brain "hich corre-..poncl to the organs of rcticctiou in
man, arc wanting in the lo\\ er animal~.
\Yc ha\JC noticed, tl.at those men who ha,·c at iscu to
distinction in the learned profc~sions, or in great ciril
and moral reformat ions, hare had large ~izcc1 heads. In
the executi\c aud lcgi.slntirc departments of our !:_O\'ern-
mcnt, a person with n. head below tl1e full size, cam1ot be
found, and the most (}istinguished, hare 1.:cry f,.,·g~. heaus,
sustained hy amply de\ eloped vitnl organs. 1f superiori-
ty of intellect: is not <kpcndcnt upon a large amount of
active urain, how docs it happen, that all great lllCll JJll\'C
large heads, or a large de,·elopmcnt in the frontal or in-
tellectual department of the hraiu; while idiots, h:ne 'cry
small heads, and men of ft~cblc intellect h3\ e inferior
forr.hcads '~
This doctrine, is most clearly excmplilicd by compar-
inrr the· heads of the diflercnt nations of the earth. COJn-
o
pare the head of the European, \\'ith that of the ITindoo,
the ChincsP., the New Hollander, or the P erU\ i.m Iudi-
an, ami it will solrc the qucstio11s, why au hundred mil-
lions of th~ Hindoos, arc kept in subjection by Hfty
thou!'and Enqli-.hmen; why En!rland with a few, has
hewed her way into the heart of China; \\ hy a few Span-
innis conquere(l a whole nat ion of the Perm inn Iudians;
"J.y the Sp:mi:ncls jailed to conquer the E:;cminolc Indi-
an::. in Florida; and "hy the United ~ta~cs lHnc ~trug­
<Tlcd a1rainst them for the last cigl1t years with such ill
;ucccs; An obsen·ation of the ::tize and sh~pe of their
20 SIZE, A .1\lEASURE OF POWER.
heads, explains all, while it pours a flood of light upon
the national character and condition of the different
classes of mankincl.
Those Indian tribes, which, in this country, ha,·e been
easily conquered by the coloniots, Lave heads of moder-
ate size, with diminutive foreheads; while the rererse is
true of those, who have disputed every inch of ground,
and fallen dead on the outer ''erge of their hunting
grounds. 1\Ioreover, those nations who, by their intel-
lect and energy of character, are enabled to sway the po-
litical destiny of the world, will be found possessing over
the conquered and controlled, a superior cerebral de,·el-
opmeut. \Vhen it is objected that cinumstanccs give
power in the field as well as in the council; we reply,
th:1t the love of family aud fireside, is imparted by special
organs of the brain, and that those feelings were aroused
in the Anglo Americans, in their struggles for indepen-
dence, '"'·ho were spurred forward to the dread and une-
qual conflict by the deep seat, anti high excitement of
these, the strongest of the human feelings, which un-
sheathed the sword, and gaYe succeEs orer a hireling sol-
diery, who fonght for the empty name of king, a feeble
rallying cry to, ow· wives, clzildrcn, and native land.
It is as natural for per::;ons with large heads, to rise to
distinction among those, whose circumstances in other
respects are similar, as it is for water to obey the law of
gru\·itation, and seck the ocenn. Humiliating as it may
be, it is not Lhe Jess true, that persons havin cr small heads,
• • 0
may try to n se to emmence, but they,
"'Vith weal<er ·wing, unearthly fluttering make,·•
exhibit their imbecility, and sink back to their proper
level. In the savage state, (especially arnong the aboria-
ines of this collntry) personal prowess and bravery fz1
war, is the criterion of distinction; hence, the chiefs,
have much larger heads than the people of their tribes
generally. R ed Jacket, Black Hawk, and Big Thunder
are examples. In a republic 1ike ours, talent, and not
heirship, is requisite to distinction, and the heads of our
Presidents: will be found to be lat·ger, thari any eflual
SIZE, A !\lEASURE OF POW.CR. 21
consecuti\·e number of foreion Potentates. Cromwell
0
and Napolcon aro::-e by their talents ; their heads were
enormously large.
Another 'iew iu proof of this doctrine, is furnished
by the ~ize of' ''arion;:; portions of the head. Some men
hare strong intellectual and moral powers, but lack force
of character. Such are largely developed in the superi-
or and anterior portions of the head, with a deficiency
in the Lasilar and posterior regions. This was trne of
l\lelancthon, and he was a superior scholar and reasoner,
eminently pious, mild and per::masi\·e. Luther, his asso-
eiate in the reformation, when he said, "l clear the
ground and .l\lelancthon scatters the good seed," and,
"Oh! if I had a ,·oice of thunder, e\'ery word should be
like a fiery bolt1 against the corruptious of the church,"
evinced an energy, \\ hich \\as nc\ cr po~sesscd by the for-
mer. IIi:-. portraits show a large head, and a great
amount of braiu in the basilar region, which corresponds
with hi::; character, and explains the difference bet\\'een
tlH' two Reformers. 'fhe middle lobe of the brain of the
American Indian, is enormously deYcloped, aud he is sly,
treacherous, cruel, proud and stubborn ; showing size to
be a measure of power, in the region of the organs of
DesLructi\·encs1
, Sccrcti\encss, Cautionsnc;:;:', Sclr-E::--
tecm and Firmness. (Sec cut of Big Thunder.) The
rc\'erse in character and derelopmeut is tme of the Ilin-
doo, ex.cept in respect to the or~ans of Cnntiousne...s and
Vcneration, and hnth, arc timid aud 'ery devotional.
Again; the reason in!_{ organs arc moderate in the head
of the American Indian, and the white man out-generals
him j but had he rcncction equal to his force and power,
no people could successfully lift the hatchet again...t him.
Thus, it will be seen, that this proposition is su~tained,
when we ,·iew the brain as a whole, or in respect to the
se\:eral classe:, of or,Tans; and ''e may add, that when
ony one or more o~gans are large in a small head, ~··
when ..in a larae head an oroan or a clasg of oru:ans 1s
' o ' n ......
small, the mental power corresponding to tho::-e extremes,
js strong or weak accordingly. This l'iew of the subject
accounts for partial genius, and partial idiocy, as set
forth in our !:jecond proposition.
SIZE, A MEASURE OF POWER.
There arc several conditions which modify the effects
of size. These are, the health, fineness of texture and
the compactness, activity and strength of the brain, which
is produced by large and healthy vital organc;, and a weiJ
developed system throughout. In the first place, in order
that size of brain may be relied upon as a just criterion
of mental power, it is esseutial that the per~on be in a
state of health; shall han3 iuherited no discase of brain
or body, which afrect the brain. 'Ve ~omctimes meet
a person with a large head, who is semi-idiotic.
On inquiry it is found, that the person when a child haJ
been subject to fils, or the rickets; that the parents were
intemperate, or ins1.ne; that the head is enlarged by hy-
drocephalic di~easc>; that some severe sickness has been
experienced ; some ueleterious drug has paralyzed the
brain, or that some blow has been received which has
affected it. Dut say some, "~re know persons, who
have good sized heads, and yet, they have been fools
from birth." To such a remark, it might be replied, that
some persons h:-t\'e natural di!'tortions, or deficiencies of
hody, or limbs, colored tumor~, or spots UJJOO Lhe face,
&c., which arc referable to cau:::.es beyond the reach of
demonstration; but no one will call such freal{s of na-
ture, good specimrns of her handy work; ot· a large brain,
a healthy, or nalw·nl one, which docs not manifest mind,
even though no natural cause can be assigned for the
condition \\ llich natnre ha~ gircn it.
In the second place, the loupt Nimcnt is 50it1etimes ex-
tremely unfavorable to the Illcntal manife~tations. If the
brain be sluggish, \\'C might as wc1l expect that a wagon-
wheel made of chestnut timber, will compme in strength
with one of tl1c same size con..,tructed of stnnch white
oak, a:> to expect mental acti\•ity and strength, from a
persou whose hody and brain ate of that sofl and sluggish
character which is produced b.f a strong predominance
of the lymphatic ternperametlt. The doctrine, tha_t size
is a measure of power, (other conditions equal,) stands
unscathed, when we make clue allowance for the rondi-
tions. This brings us to the consiueration of the tem-
}Jeraments. ·
Tf.!"'li'ERAl\lENTS. 23
IV. T.EMPERA~IENTS.
The word temperament, is used to cxpr•css a certain
condition of the body; or the consitilution of the physi-
cal apparatus, embracing the lcrtm·e, r.ompactncss, activi-
ty and slrcngt!t of the SJ stem.
Physiologists recognize four temperaments, to \'>'it: the
SANGUINE, the BILrou~, the NERvous and LrMPIL\Tic or
Phlegmatic.
The Vital or-gans, including the heart, lungs, blood
vessels, &c., constitute the Sanguine tempernrneut: the
framr.-u•ork of the sy::;tcm, including the Lone~ <UH.l mus-
cles, the Bitious: the JJrain and .i.Ycrvou:; s:'!"tem, the
1Ycrvou:; or J.licntal temperament: and the Ulmuls and
Digestive organs, the Lymphatic or Phlegmatic temper-
ament.
\Ye scfdom find the tempenunents pure. There is
generally a mixture of two or more, in every pcr~on.
Some possess an equal proportion of all the temperaments,
which is the most favorable balance; but more fre-
quently, oue or two arc found exi~t ing in great predom-
inance. \Veb~ter has a predominance of the Bil-
ious; Clay of the Sanguine: Calhoun, Jack:5on nnd \Vise,
of the Ncrvous; each, ha\ ing a mixture of the other.
The temperaments arc distinguished by external ~igns,
in~luding the complexion, and the proportion that one
part of the system bears to other~.
S \NGUINE. The Sanguine temperament, is produced j
by the predominance of tltc vital ot·gans and arterial sys-
tem, and is indicated by a ruddy complexion, light or
sandy hair licr]Jt or blue C)'es, a crlo\\ing: countenance, a
, '0 >':) ~ •
stroug and rnpid pnl~e, a large chest compared with the
head :md abdominal viscera.
It giv~s bodily activity, a lo\'c of exercise in the open
air, great zeal and nrdor ; a general buoyancy and a
strong current of animal feelings. Persons of this tem-
perament are usually averse to sedentary employments or
close study.
26 PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
seize upon education intuitively, and become prodigie3 in
intellect, rarely arrive at maturity; but, like a fitful comet,
astonish the world by a sudden glare,and sink in starless
night. The following case, will illustrate this subject,
and give a key to the many sore ajjlictions, which now
blast the fondest hopes of devoted parental love.
While lecturing at the city of Washington, in the
spring of1841, one of the writers, (N. Sizer,) was invited
to visit the family of Mr. Klinehanse, for the purpose of
examining the head of their only child, a boy some five
years old. I at ouce recognized in him, the Nervous tem-
perament. His head was larger than that of common
men, and measureil more in circumference than his chest.
His arms were very slender, his lungs small, pulse fee-
ble, and the whole system except the head, frail and
diminutive; in fact, he looked like a sickly, or half star-
ved child. His eyes were large and very brilliant, his
skin ~bin and transparent.
The first remark which I made, was, this boy must
dig, or die. "Why?"said the anxious father. Because,
he has a purely Nervous temperament, and the brain be-
ing the largest and most active part of his system, will
lead him to think aud study, and be averse to physical
exercise: that the brain will 1·ob the body of nourishment
and the heart and lungs are so small and feeble, that they
cannot sustain henlth and life. "What must we do with
him?" Let him think and study less, and exercise more.
"But," says the father, ''we can't make him exercise at
all, as other children do; he will not play with them;
uever engages in their sports, but sits down with his
books and reads, or asks questions, or listens to the con-
versation of adults, from morning till eleven o'clock at
night. He eats and sleeps but little, and we can't in-
duce him to play: he knows all the poetry that his moth-
er and aunt can repeat, and when he can do nothing
else, he urges them to read to him, that he may learn to
repeat it, and his mother reads him to sleep every night."
But this course must be changed. "Tell how," said
the father,"and it shall be done." Has he a little wheel-
barrow? "No." Then get one made for him, and a lit-
PllYSJCAL EDUC.\TION. 25
The doctrine of the temperaments, then, as understood
by phrenologists, is founded on the relative size of particu-
lar organs, such as the brain, lungs, &c., and observations
o~ the complexion, color of the hair and eyes, together
WJth the strength, or weakness ofthe pulse, and hardness of
muscle. No principle of phrenology is more important
than that of the temperaments. This will appear evident
when we rcllect that the human system is composed of
a great number of organs, all of which are necessary to
complete the man; and a want or disease of any one
part, is not only derogatory to physical power, but also
to strength of mind. Although the brain is the organ of
the mind, still, even where it is perfect, and of lcn·ge size,
if the other parts of the physical system are weak or
diseased, a derangement or want of mental power will
he the inevitable result. The temperaments may be
cltanged, or essentially modified, and a balance produced
by attending to the Jaws by which they are governed.
Bi\.LANCE OF TEl\IPERAMENT, OR PIIYSICAL EDUCATION.
The more equalJy the several temperaments arc found
to exist in an individual, the less liable will that person
be to disease, and the more perfect will be the develop-
ment of the whole character. But this balance does not
always exi~t, which leads us to inquire, how a change can
be accomplished? If a persot\ has too much of the
Lymphatic temperament, Jet him Jive sparingly, be strict-
ly temperate, and exercise muclt, at some active employ-
ment in the open air, and study standing, or walking.
This will excite and enlarge the Nervous, Bilious, and
Sanguine systems, and produce a balance. lias a person
too much of the Bilious, let him \vork Jess, and think and
study more, or let his labor be such as requires less manual
strength, than activity and thought. But, there is more
dangc·r, from a strong predominance of the _Ner~·ous temp-
erament, which, like pulmonary consumptiOn, IS a flatter-
ing and deceitful condition. Why are persons of the
most brilliant intellect, the early victims of disease and
death 1 All have observed, that those children, who
3
24 TE~IPERA~IENTS.
BrLious. The preponderance of the muscular portion
of the phJsical system, produces the bili(Ju:; temperament;
which is charactcri:ted by an athletic frame; firm flesh;
a harsh outline of features; coarse, dark hair and skin;
and a strong, steady pulse. It imparts energy and
strength of mind and body; and power to endure great
mental and physical labor.
N Envous. The predominance of the brain and 1ze1··
vous system, gives rise to this temperament, which is in·
dicated by a large brain, moderate sized vital organs, a
thin skull, lightue-.s of bones, small muscles, fine hair,
thin clear skin, brilliant eyes, and sharp, pointed features.
This produces great excitability and activity of the men-
tal powers, a dispositiou to sedentary habits and a passion
for mental labor, hut weakness of the physical pO\\ ers.
LYMPJU..Trc. This condition of the system is pro-
duced by a preponJerance of the glands and digestive
organs. It is i11<.licated by corpulency, rou tu.lness of
form, paleness of the counten:mce, dullness of the eyes,
ash colored hair, softness of muscles, and inexpressire
countenance. The brain partakes of the quality of the
whole constitution, and produces coolne!'s of passions,
and moderate phy::;ical and mental manife::tlations.
Persons of this temperament, like ca~e better than
effort, and usually seck it.
l\IARKI,l';(; OF THE T.t:::\lPEIU.:\IE::"TS.
'\\~hen all the temperaments are marked cqua1ly, the
person will partake of the bodily ancl mental qualities of
each, in an equal degree; but, if one l,e marked 6, and
another :J, it shows, that dottlJie the amount of one tem-
perament is pos~e--sed O\ er another. The Nervous be-
ing marked 7, indicates great mental acti,·ity-the
Lymphatic 7, great sluggishness. All the temperaments
being marked 3, would indicate n fair share of acti\'ity;
but the per~on ha\ iug this combination ,,·ith a large
head, will not manifc'>t much brilliancy of intellect. The
Bilious, Sanguine, and Nen·ous beit;g marked 6, indi-
cate, that the person has acti' ity, and strength of mind
and body, and the power of enduring great hardship.
PnYSICAL EDUCATION. 27
tie shovel to match, and get a cartman to deposite in
your yard, a load of fresh earth, and then induce him to
shovel it up, and wheel it across the yard daily.
About four weeks after this, as I was passing the gen-
tleman's house, he invited me to stop and see the boy.
The wheel-barrow had been procured, and pleased the
child admirably, for he thought it was man's business to
use it. Erery day for three weeks, had he transported
the heap of earth across the yard; and when he entered
the house from his pleasing task, I saw the glow of return-
ing health mantling his cheek, and his step was more
elastic and firm. 'Vhat are his habits now? I inquired.
"0 !"replied the delighted mother, "he has n,t called
for a book for two weeks; he is very industrious, can't
afford to lose a moment till his daily ta~k is done, and
instead of eating little, and sitting up till eleven o'clock,
he eats as mt.ch in a day as he before ate in three, and
frequently falls asleep at the tea-table." Pursue this
course, said I, and keep books from him till he gets a
constitution established, and if at twelve, or sixteen,you
find the muscu[m~ and vital systems to be as strong and
active as the nert•ous, then, let his study and exercise be
equal, and with his large and acti\·e brain, he cannot
fail to beeome a scholar and an intellectual man.
The Jaw of exercise, as set forth in our fifth general
proposition, is the theory of producing the wonderful
change in this boy, and may be applied in all similar
cases to obtain a balance of the temperaments; that is to
say, exercise the 10eak parts, and let the strong and ab-
sorbing ones rest, and they wilJ become equalized.
The doating parent often crowds forward a precocious
child ; (and it is so, because of the predominance of the
nerYous temperament) encourages it to study and get
double lessons; shows it off and boasts of its extra ac-
quirements, while a host of relatives and friends apply
the unction of flattery in view of the future prospects of
the child, and it is finally determined to push him through
college and into a profession, at an early day, because
he is delicate and cannot do hard work, and because he
is so very fond of books.
~I.Jch a yout)l may live to take the highest honors of
PHYSICAL EDUCATION.
college, and settle in a profession ; but while the world
looks on admiring the brilliancy of his genius, his glory
is eclipsed by pulmonary consumption, or some kindred
disease, and he sinks to an early grave, amid the sighs of
an expectant community, and the only consolation
which is generally invoked, is that, "whom the Gods love,
die young," and "The Lord gave, and the Lord hath ta-
ken away," &c., and the bereavement is looked upon as
a special dispensation of Divine Providence. 'Ve will
not say that this is blaspltemy, but, that it is its nearest
neighbor, and igno·tance is the only mantle for such a sin.
This young man has been mm·dered, (unintentionally
and ignorantly we allow,) to grati1y the vanity or ambi~
tion of his doating parents and fond friends. He has
been induced to neglect that physical exercise without
which, (till the corner stone of the laws of God is re-
moved) health cannot be enjoyed, and he has been pres-
sed into the opposite extreme of mental labor, and by
these means he has not only neglected to build a consti-
tution, but torn down what little nature had imparted,
and then this work of desolation, is sacrilegiously char-
ged upon the bountiful Giver of all good.
The laws of life and health are as immutable as the
pi1lars of heaven, and can no more be violated with impu-
nity, than the law of gravitation or the law of fire, or air.
HE, who fixed those laws, and gave man senses and intel-
lect to understand, and ability to obey them, will not, (and
cannot consistently with Himself) reverse any cme of
them, to accommodate those, who wilfully or ignorantly
transgress them; l1ence, the folly, not to say guilt, of
charging the results of our pride and ignorance, to the
special inflictions of Providence, when in fact, it is only
the general and inevitable penalty of the infraction ofthe
natural laws. "My ways are equal, are not your ways
unequal?"
The thoracic region, embracing the vital organs, is the
.fire-place of life; the '!Lain-spring of the human system,
and no person can enJOY health, and manifest greatness
of mind and attain to 'green old age,' without a large
chest as well as a large brain. Our great men have
(}hesta of enormous magnitude, especially those of ~dvan-
LAWS OF BEALTU. 29
ted age and superior talents. John Quincy Adams, IS a
short man, but his chest is large. John C. Calhoun and
Henry Clay, though tall and apparently slim, have very
large chests. T. H. Benton, N. P. Tallmadge, Wright,
'Vebster, Preston, Buchanan, and all of the most distin-
guished lawyers and divines whom we have seen, have,
(as the late Sam'l L. Southard once said to Mr. Fowler
of himself,) "chests like ct. cider ban·el." Look abroad in
community, and when you see a person of strong mind,
strong constitution, great physical power, good health
and longevity; those qualities will be found accompa-
nied with an amply expanded chest.
In view of this, it can hardly be necessary to say; give
the heart and lungs room for full and free play; and not,
by any artificial means, c1·amp those organs upon the
free exercise of which, life, health, and happine~s depend.
Pas/don, rules the world, and women rule the fashions,
and when it becomes fashionable to know our own
nature and obey its laws, it wj}l then be fashionable to
enjoy health, and as ungenteel to have delicate health, as
the reverse is now fasltionable.
When we look abroad upon mankind, and witness the
pain, sickness, and suffering to which they are subject,
two things naturally suggest themselves; 1st, that the
Creator designed that man should be miserable while on
earth, or 2ndly, that man has transgressed those laws, the
observance of which, are necessary to happiness. Jus-
tice to an All-wise Creator compels us to say, that the
first proposition is erroneous. Superstition may cavil
upon this point, but enlightened intellect speaks a differ-
ent language fi·om ignorance. There are individuals,
who live to old age; enjoy perfect health through the
'"''bole period of their existence, and finalJy sink into the
grave without a struggle or a groan. They die, b~ause
their physical organization has litera11y worn itself out,
and not in consequence of any particular disease. This
is a fact which no one can deny, and it proves, that such
might be the case with all, if they have inherited a good
constitution and understand, and obey the laws ofhealth,
It may be proper to remark, that~ no rational man sup...
poses that the present generation can, by following th~
3«'
30 LAWS OF HEALTH.
most rigid rules of temperance, live to old age, entirely
free from pain and sickness. And the reason is obvious.
.All have not inherited from their parents, a healthy con-
stitution. In the further elucidation of this subject, the
causes of disease, demand our attention.
These are, first, the hereditary transmission of weak
vital organs, from parents to children, and a consequent
liability to disease; 2ndly, intemperance, and 3rdly, too
great, or too little exercise.
The first proposition, viz. the hereditary transmission
of disease, or of weak vital organs from parents to chil-
dren, is too often overlooked, when we witness the sick-
ness and consequent misery of our fellow men. We fre-
quently meet with persons laboring under some chronic
disease, and almost continually groaning with pain.-
Some suppose them to be suffering for crimes committed
against high heaven, and look upon their misfortunes as
dispensations of Providence, to show the worthlessness of
the present world, and the necessity of being prepared for
a state of eternal beatitude. But if we inquire into the
causes of their pains, we shall find in numerous instances
that they have inherited their diseases from their parents.
If they have not, some indiscretion of their own, either
from ignorance or a known violation of the laws of health,
has brought upon themselves the pains they feel. Cases
are not unfrequent, where a whole family of children, one
by one, as they arrive at maturity, fall victims to con-
sumption, having inherited weak lungs from their progen-
itors, and a consequent predisposition to this fatal malady.
Such being the case, it follows of course, that, until
diseased pNsons shall cease to become parents, sickness
and suffering will exist in the world, and man will be
called a creature of misfortune. By diseased persons we
mean those, who are predisposed to pulmonary consump-
tion, scrofula, gout, insanity, &c. Setting aside, there-
fore, those who have inherited some malady from their
parents, we conclude, that the remainder can, by know.
ing, and obeying the laws of health, live to old age with·
out suffering from disease, and like a well trimmed lamp
gradually waste away, until the oil of life shall have be:
come extinct.
LAWS OF llEALTB. 31
Secondly. We now come to the second cause of dis-
ease, which is intemperance. By intemperance, we do
not mean the immoderate use of spiritous liquors merely;
but the excessive indulgence in any kind of aliment, or of
the passions. Many, who call themselves temperate, be-
cause they abstain entirely from the use of spiritous li-
quors, indulge in excesses equally fatal to health, if not
to happiness. Sickness, of an aggravated character, is
often caused by overloading the stomach with food and
thus paralyzing the healthy function of that or(Y'an. 'The
injurious effects of ardent spirits upon the sto~uach, and
the consequent derangement of the nervous system in
general, and the brain in particular, are too well known
to need comment.
It must be evident to every reflecting mind, that no
rules in regard to diet, can be given, which will apply in-
discriminately, to every individual. The science ofPhys-
iology, and the effect of different kinds of food, upon dif-
ferent constitutions, should be well understood, and must
be, before mankind can escape disease. Every person,
therefore, should understand his own physical organiza-
tion, and make use of such food, as will suit it, and in-
sure health. Those with a predominance of the Nervous
temperament, should abstain entirely from all stimulating
drinks; usc a plain diet, and if of sedentary habits, cat
sparingly. "The temperance society, on the tee-total
principle is their best friend, and a good cook their worst
enemy."
A person with the Bilious temperament, can follow a
different course of iiving, and indulge in many luxuries
with impunity, which would be very injurious to one hav-
ing the Nervous constitution. But let the temperament
be ever so favorable to health, we would still recommend
a plain diet. The savage of the forest, ~as no l?xuries,
and his iron constitution, sustained by a s1mple d1et, ena-
bles him to endure much hardship; live to old age, and
like the setting sun, when no lowering cloud obscures the
horizon, and the elements are all hushed to peace, Jays
down his noble frame in the sleep of death. The first
settlers of New F;ncrland, were larger and stronger, and
enjoyed better health than their posterity, who li\·e upon
LAWS OF HEALTH.
dainties, and consider themselves too good to labor. They
Jived on plain food, used simple medicines when sick, and
labored hard, the female as well as the male.
The last proposition, too great or too Jittle exercise,
remains to be considered. Here, also, as in diet, no gen-
eral rules can be given, which wlll apply to every individ-
ual case. A person with the Sanguine temperament,
needs a much greater amount of exercise to insure health,
than one with the Nervous. It is evident that man was
designed by his Creator, to take a certain amount of ex-
ercise regularly in order to secure good health. If he
does not, he suffers the penalty for its neglect, which is
disease, both of body and mind. The rich, Yiolate th~
law of exercise by living in idleness, and wallowing in
luxury; and the poor by over exertion of their physical
powers, occasioned, in numerous instances, by those, who
have the command of their labor. The unequal dtvision
oflabor which exists in all civilized countries, tends di-
rectly to induce disease, and shorten life.
celt has been computed," says Dr. Franklin, "by some
political arithmeticians, that if every man and woman
would work four hours each day on something useful,
tltat labor, would produce sufficient to procure all the ne-
cessaries and comforts of life; want and misery would be
banished out of the world, and the rest of the twenty
four hours might be leisure and pleasure."
If all would use their time frugally upon some useful
object, and the spirit of pride and Yanity were annihilated-,
which now scourges the world, and makes man a s]a,·e of
fashion, and of his propensities; every child in christen-
dom might enjoy the ad\·antages of a liberal education ·
(for then it would not cost half as much as at present,)
jails, penitentiaries, and poor-houses might be ('.onverted
into habitations of honest freedom, or hal1s of science
and man might stand up redeemed from the thraldom or
poverty, ignorance, and want, and the earth cease to de--.
serve the name of a vale of tears
EXERCISE ENLARGES THE BRAIN. 35
exercise of the different organs of the head. The por-
traits of Napoleon which were taken at different periods
of his life after he had arrived at his full size, (says Pro-
fessor Cha's Caldwell) are vastly different in the size of
the forehead.
Dr. Scott of Buffalo, informed one of the authors in
1830, that a man of that city, at the age of twenty three,
changed his business for a mechanical pursuit. lie had
his head measured with callipers, (by the phrenological
so<~iety of Buffalo,) in the region of Constructivene~s at
the time of entering upon the change. At the end of
three years, a second measurement was made, and his
head, was half an inch broader in the same region than
at first; while in other respects !thad increased in size,
very little, if any. The Phrenological Journal and other
works, as well as our own experience abound with facts
such as these which might be introduced if necessary,
but we prefer in this place simply to say to those who
have any faculty of the memory; or, any of th0. morul
sentiments, weak; begin to exercise them, and you will
find that they will become stronger, and tile organs lar-
ger, and while you are proving upon yourself, the truth
of our position, you will reap an ample reward.
It is supposed by many, to be impossible for the brain
to he enlarged as a whole, or in a particular part, after a.
person has attained to maturity of body. Such persons
say, that the skull is hard and thick, and the brain soft,
and hence, they cannot comprehend how the skull can be
made to give way for the brain. As we have before re-
marked, the brain is in motion when it is exercised by
thoncrht. 'Vhen the activity of an organ of the brain,
b .
invites nourishment which expands it and thus reqt11res
more room, the bony matter of the slmll is dis~oh ed, ab-
sorbed and carried into general circulation and new mat-
ter deposited on the outside when necessary. The s~ull
is not a prison house, but, a. wall of defence to the bram ;
and when it requires room in any particular place, or as
a whole, natu·re supplies the means to produce the change,
just as it imparts room to sltell-fi~h, &c.
34 EXERCISE ENLARGES THI!! BRAIN.
system increased by exercise 7 Why are the muscles lar-
ger and stronger in the laboring, than in the sedentary,
or professional man 7 Why is the right arm of the black-
smith larger and stronger than his left 7 Why are the
arms and chests ofsailors laraer than their lower extrem-
ities, in comparison with far~ers 1 Do they use their
arms and chest more in climbin<T and at the windlass,
0
than their lower limbs 7 Do they lift less than farmers,
and pull more 1 Why are the in:)ide of the hand, and sole
of the foot more capable of endurance than the outside
or top 7 Are they so in infancy before they have been
exercised 7 Give a child no exercise, and will he not be
a dwarf7 Swing up one arm, and use the other, and al..
though attached to a healthy body, would not one be small
and weak, and the other large and strong, notwithstand~
ing the blood vessels are equally numerous in each 7
Let a Lawyer or Physician take an ax to the forest,
and use it faithfully, and he will return at night with his
hands blistered, and the muscles of his arms so deranged
that he can with the utmost difficulty feed himself. Let
him continue the labor for thirty days and then inquire
after his hands and arms; and he will tell you that nature
has healed the blisters and coated the inside of his hands
with a thick, hard skin, and strengthened and hardened
the muscles ofthe arms and body, so that the labor is en-
dured without difficulty. Now the blood vessels, which
distribute nutriment to the arm, are minutely ramified in
all parts of it, and if the objection be well founded, the
skin on the outside of the hand, should be as thick as on
the inside. Is it as thick 7
Nature never deals out her bounties where they are
not needed. A demand being made upon the arm or
hand, she rushes to supply that demand, and the parts
most in need of nourishment accrete from the blood as it
passes, that which gives size and strength; and in those
parts where no special deposition is necessary, just enough
of nourishment is left to keep the wheels of nature mov-
ing, without any waste of the vital fluid. Apply this
principle to the different parts CJf the brain and the obje~
tion is answered. Moreover, numerous facts might be
brought to bear on this subject, proving the increase by
EXERCISE ENLARGES TBE BRAIN. 33
V. ExERCISE.
Exercise increases the size of the brain as a whole,
and of each organ in particular.
First. In the process of thought the brain is exer-
cised, which produces a motion, as has been proved where
the brain had been laid bare by some injury. When the
person slept and did not dream, the brain was quiet;
when awake, or dreaming, the brain was in acti"·e mo-
tion, and sometimes when the mind was highly excited
the brain protruded above the level of the skull at the ori-
fice. This exercise, invites to the brain a larger amount
of blood, than visits it when the mind is at rest; for we
notice that the head is frequently much warmer and suf-
fers pain by the influx of blood when we are in deep, pro-
tracted study.
Secondly. Men of studious habits have larger heads,
and especially larger fordteads, tha& those who have little
intellectual exercise : and those who exercise the animal
propensities most, are most developed at the base of the
brain.
T!tirdly. Infants have small foreheads compared with
the animal compartment ofthe brain. Thus nature fully
supplies that part of the brain first, which is first wanted,
it being unnecessary that the nevi' born infant should
reason before it can act; but, as the child begins to no-
tice objects and to think, the forehead, or region of the
intelJectual organs, increases in a rapid ratio, till the
head becomes wel1 balanced, and then, proper exercise of
all the organs, would maintain that good balance, till the
mind shall have arrived to its highest state of energy.
But, says the objector, if the influx of blood to the
brain causes its enlarO"ement, how can one organ, say
Destructiveness, beco~e large by exerci~e and other parts
remain small, when the arteries and veins are distrib~ted
through all the organs alike, and hence would be as hke-
ly to feed and enlarge the organ of Benevolence as De-
structiveness 1 We will answer this question by employ-
ing the Yankee prerogative. How are other parts of the
36 EDUCATION.
EDUCATION OF CHILDREN, AND SELF IMPRO\'EMENT.
If size of brain, be a measure of power, and if exercise
imparts size and activity to the brain, and energy and
strength to the mind; it follows, that circumstances and
t1·aining, have an important bearing upon the develop-
ment and direction of the mind, and the individual and
general well being ofthe human race.
At the sound of the word education, every New Eng-
land parent's son! bounds with interest and expectation,
for here is the Plymouth Rock, l1ere the cradle of liber-
ty, here om sacred altars, here the means, and a desire
to disseminate among the rising generation, permanent
and general intelligence. The \'ery foundation of this
people and the bulwark of their institutions, have their
basis upon general intelligence and onr holy religion.
Here and elsewhere, e,·ery enlightened parent feels an
intense desire for the impro\·ement and well being of their
posterity; this string being touched, its deep toned har-
mony reverberates through the soul, and hence, churches,
books, schools and instruction, abound throughout the
length and breadth of christendom. The main effort of
the present and past, has been directed to the education
of the intellect, and little has been known of the real na-
ture of the ]J1'0pensitics, and as little progress made in
controlling them. It has been, and now is, too often con-
sidered amply suflicient to c.lerelop and enlighten the in-
tellect; while the propensities are permitted to revel, with
all the impetuosity ofblind, animal passions. Expand the
intellect of a vicious man, and you doubly arm him, "to
scatter fire brands, arrows and death.,
The present mode of education is defective in many
vital points; else, why are not our great men, mo1·al men ?
The members of Congress are called, men of great edu-
cation. 'Vhy, then, is the house of Representatives just-
ly called a "bear-garden,'' "Gladiator's Hall," &c.1
One has only to be a witness for a few weeks, of the pro-
ceedings of congress, to see a subversion of transcend-
ent talents to the meanest purposes of dishonesty and self-
EDUCATION. 37
ishn~ss, for personal, and party aggrandizement, (to say
nolhmg of corporeal combat) and he will not only blush
at the depravity of man, but that he himself has labored
in the peaceful retreats of life, to place such men, where
they abuse their power, and disgrace the country. Nor
is this remark applicable to this aae or nation. Such
men as Benedict Arnold and Aaro;; Burr, are not like
'angels'visits' in this or other countries. They exist and
only wait for circumstances to call them out. '
It must be apparent, that our literary in~titutions are
defective in their moral arrangements, to send forth more
of immorality than virtue. Arc they not schools of vice,
as well as of intellect? This is emphatically true of col-
leges as well as of the primary schools: and why? In
the first plrtce, our youth are not properly trained at
home, and when they get beyond parental control, like
the wild unbridled steed, theY rush forward to do the bid-
ding of their most active faculties: and in numerous in-
otances, those who ha\·e the care of them, labor more for
the "loaves and fishes," than for the benefit oftheir ward,
and appear to think, that if they cultivate the intellect of
the pupil, and obtain their stipulated wages, their whole
duty is done: and in fact soute parents forbid the teacher
who is so disposed, to institute moral restraint over the
student : and it would be indeed a miracle, if intellectual
greatness and depravity did not go hand in hand.
We find no fault with the expansion of the inte1Ject;
we say go on in this good work, but while this is attended
to at the expense of the moral nature of the student, we
cannot wish the system good speed ; because, like a
house upon the snnd, or a pyramid on its apex, it can but
blast the! prospects, and accelerate the certain ruin of
those under its influence.
The term, education, is a broad one; it does not mean
the de\·elopment of the intellect mereIy, or to indoctrin-
ate the learner with peculiar religious creeds; to cram
the mind with latin, greek and mathematics; t~ teach
them how to acquire money, and make a splend1d show
in the world, and to understand the etiquette of (falsely
called) refined society, which is but a school of vice,
and a system of polite hypocrisy; but) to teach them to
4
38 EDUCATION•
be MORAL, GOOD AND WISE. That the system of educa..
tion be proper, it is necessary to understand the nature
of the being to be educated; and one grand reason why
the present syste.m is radically wrong, arises from igno-
rance on that p01nt.
Phrenology, we hail as the brightest star of human
knowledge, that ever dawned on the world: on this, if
reared at all, must the superstructure of ed~cation in its
broadest s<:nse, be founded. Phrenology, by specifying
the primary powers of the human mind, its animal, and
moral, as well as intell~ct•Jal capabilities: has conferred
one of the greatest boons on man. Before this, every
speculative theory of mental philosophy must bow, and,
because it rests on the corner stone of truth, must tri-
umph. This sy~tem teaches that man is possessed of a
plurality of faculties, and that each ha::; it::; special organ
in the brain, and also poiut~ out their localities, ancl the
means of impro\·ing and st1·cngthening each. It teaches,
that man possesses intellect; (that which is almost exclu-
sively cultivated) that he has a class of moral sentiments,
which should ue addre:::;~ed l hrough au (;IJJightened intel-
lect, that he has a clas::; of strictly t'elfi~h nud anima] pro-
pensitie:;, nnd abo a class of soc1al affections; all of
which, acting in harmonious combination, constitute the
perfection or human nature, and bring man into hannouy
wjth the moral law.
The inordinate acthrity and strength of the animal pro-
pensities, cause all the misery which curses maul~ind:
and "makes countless thousands mourn.'' The::;e pro-
pensities must be controlled, if controlled at all, hy the
moral sentiments and intP.1Ject. If the abuse of the fa-
culties of Amativeness, Dc~tructiveness, Combativeness,
Secretiveness, AcqtHsiti,·ene:-s and Alimentiveness, causes
all, or nearly all the sins ofwmmission \\hie h disturb the
quiet and work the ruin of the human race: it would
seem to be of 1.1ital importance to understand these facul-
ties, learn their law of action, and how to control them.
It may be proper in this place to remark as a general
Jaw, thnt a man, or child, when addrcE-scd in the Jan-
gnage of kindness or wrath, feels excited in the corres-
ponding feelings; hence, call a man a t'illain in an angry
EDUCATION.
tone, and in tone and manner more angry, will he retort;
but say "my good sir," or, "dear sir," with a smile and
a bow, and he will bow, and smile in return; because the
faculties arc aroused in llim, which you employ in the
audress. The feelings and faculties of children, are most
acute, and they imbibe irnpres:sions with a sagacity and
celerity, truly astonishing; and, hence, the above modes
of address make impressions upon their minds, as in wax,
to be retained, as if engravcn upon steel. As the pas-
~ion of anger, is a besetting sin among men, we will dis-
cuss the faculties by which it is produced. and show the
remedy. These are Combativeness, and Destructive-
ness. (Here, please read the adaptation of those organs.)
How are they commonly, (though not always) trnined?
For example: a boy has a large endowment of Combat
iveness and Degtructireness, combined with an active
temperament, and he is energetic and forciule in charac-
ter, as he should be. lie may abuse these faculties, by
st.riking his sist.cr, in anger. The little girl rushes into
(he presence of her mother, and reiatcs the outrage,
which arouses in her the same faculties, which the boy
has abused ; and without a thought, but the administra-
tion of condign punishment upon the tiny culprit, she
commands the little "1·ascal," in the language of anger,
to come to lte1·, which inflames his already excited pas-
sion. Being t:1rdy in his app~·oach, he io hastily drag-
ged, (perhaps by the ear, or hatr of the hend) to the do-
mestic tribunal, and without a trial, or a chance to plead,
either the "general issue," or extenuating circumstances,
the rod is applied to his back, till the rnge of the parent
is satisfietl; when the little sufferer is ordered nway, and
the liberal permission given him, to do the same again if
J,e dare. He retires, and in sullen silence ponders upon
the subjeet, and meditates re\'enge. He knO\'t'S that he
has been abused, and this inflames his passion still high-
er thar1 ever; for now he is not only angry with his sis-
ter but Combativeness and Destructi\'eness arc also ar-
, .
rayed against Isis mother and perhaps h1mself; and
children ha\'e been known under such circu11stances to
wreak their "'cngeanc~ upon their persons, clothing, or
any domestic auimal which might be near.
40 EDUCATION.
Now, this course of procedure is obviously wrong.
First, the very faculties which the child had abused, the
excitement of which should have been alluved, are in-
flamed by the language and conduct of the mother.
Secondly, this treatment outrages the moral and social
affections of the child, and rererses their action against
tJ1e mother, whjfe they condemn the whole transaction.
Thirdly, by this additional exercise of the organs, they
are increased in size and activity; and thereby rendered
much more irritable, and likely to arise a s~cond time,
and to a higher degree than before.
"Well," says the mother, "you ha\'e told us what is
wrong; now wiJJ you teJI us what is right 1'' "0 !'' says
another, "I don't believe a word of phrenological t!.duca-
tion, and phrenological courtsltips. 1 believe ihat a good
ltickory stick will take the temper out of my boys better
than your phrenological nonsense; the good old way of
putting on the birch that my father and grandfather prac-
ticed is the best after aJI ; touch their feelings with the
~oltip, that will bring them to their senses."
Now, my good lady, you ha\"e gi,·en your verdict
against phrenology without evidence; without giving it a
chance to speak for itself. It is very possible that you
think and that your ancestors thought,. and practiced on
the old flogging system; and possibly, also, your worthy
grandsire put his grist in one end of the meal bag, and a
stone in the other, to balance it upon his horse; but,
does it necessarily follow, that old customs cannot be im-
proved ; and that a thing is right, because it is old and good
men have believed and practiced upon it 1 Now, have
you not noticed, that those who whip most have the most
disobedient and worst governed families; and, that those
boys of whom it is said, "they want whipping every day
at school or at home," and usualJy get it, generally be-
come reckless ofcharacter, pests to society and outcasts
among men 1 The object of punishment is, to con·ecfj.
not to enhance the difficulty: and we assert that castiaa...
tion as before described, increases the passion of anger
in all cases, and effects no good end, unless it be to con~
stitute a safety valve for the escape of parental indiana-
. ~
t10n.
EDUC.\TION, 41
Let it be borne in mind, that Destructiveness and
Combativeness in the boy, had been abused, and that
the object of the parent should be, to remo\e the excite-
ment, and establish an opposite state of feeling in the
child. How is this to be accomplished? Surely, not
by exciting the same feelings to a higher pitch, but by
calling up anolfte,· class of faculties to silence the unruly
ancl abused ones In the first place, if the tale of afflic-
tion produced by the quarrel, excites yow· Combative-
ne~s and Destructi\eness, wait, till you can call into ac-
tivity yonr Conscientiousues~, Benevolence and Philo-
progenitivenc5s, with all the intellectual faculties ; or, in
other words gove1·n yott'rself; and then spcnk to the boy
in the language of kindness. Address his Benevolence.
Ask him if it was a kind act? Benevolence ans\\'ers,No!
1Vas it ju:st? Conscientiou~ness condemns the deed !
She is your friend and playfellow-Adhesivcness testifies
to its violation. She is your little sister-Philoprogcni-
tiveness talks to the trembling, and soul-stricken boy-
su~h emotions he has never before suffered-his deepest
sensibilittes are nwakened, he is melted into tenderness;
he feels condemned and still hts mother doec; not chide; he
would gi,·e a world to be liberated from the dilemmn,
but sees no ray of hope,-no way of relief. "Are you
not very sorry my son?" Hi~ intellect and all his moral
and social affections are arrayed against him, and the
tear of sorrow and the heaving bosom tell but too plain..
Jy that he is lashed in the tenderest point. "Can't you
kiss your little sister, and resolre nerer to do wrong
again?" With eager delight he clasps her to a throbbing
breast and imparts a kiss of affection as natural and sin-
~ere as it is ardent. Where now, are his Combativeness
nnd Destructi,·encss? Swallowed up by Jo,·e; by the
most thrilling emotions of tenderness, and affection.
Thus a jm·y has been raised, in the child's mind; he
is condemned by his own faculties, and the execution of
the most severe punishment inflicted, and he stands up
reformed. The next time he is tempted in the same
manner to transgress the law of kindness, memory brings
back the feelincrs which constituted the punishment of
the first offencc,t:)aud although his hand be raised to strike,
4•
42 EDUCATION·
it falls powerless, and he finds himself in a new and ha~
py atmosphere; or, should he transgress a second or even
a third time, take the same course as before aml he will
with greater ease be subdued, and you will ultimately ac-
complish in respect to him, your highest wishes.
The philosophy of thc~e modes of treatmeut is this.
lly exciting with language and conduct, the organs of
Combatireness and Destructiveness, they are enlarged by
exercise, while the opposite organs become feeble and
rcmaiu small for want of action, and the evil is increased.
On the contrary, lty exciting the intellect and"all the
m..oral and social affections, and through their combined
activity suppressiug Combativeness and Destruclireness,
you increase the former aud check the activity of the
latter, and therebj enable the child by the energy of his
own faculties, to go...·ern himself. "But,"says one, "I
have r:either time nor patience to pursue that roundabout
course·" Those who adrocate and practice whipping,
generally have but little patience, and that is the very
reasoa why they of all pen•ons should abandon it.
You ha\·e both time and patience to toil for the pur-
pose of making yonr children learned, accomplished, and
rich in the wodd 's goods, hut have neither time nor
patience to train their propensities and cultivate their
moral and social affections, thereby imparting to them
a character which the wealth of a Crresus is too poor to
purchase, and of which, the sweeping blasts of ad\'ersity,
and even death itself c.mnot rob them.
You who are parents, should plead no excuse, as none
is or can be a\·ailahlc, for the non-performauce of any duty
you owe, not less to those to whom you haYe been instru-
mental in imparting being than to the world at large,
which has a right to expect, nay, claim from you the
faithful discharge of this. the highest human duty. None
are qualified to govern others who canont govern them-
seh·es; hence, self-control is the first step in the great
work. This may be obtained by the same process that
phrenology prescribes for the training of children, for
tlte.lJ are men in miniature.
Did the limits of this volume permit, ,..,.e would enter
at large upon the discussion of all the organs in a similar
44 R.E~IARKS ON THE BRAiN.
the form of an eJJipse. In the middle line, a deep cleft
or fissure is perceived, separating the brain, in its whole
length, into two halves, or lternispheres, as they are called.
Into this cleft dips a tight stiff membrane, resembling a
scythe in shape, and hence called the falx (scythe,) or
sometimes, from its being a mere fold of the dura mate1·,
the falciform (scytlte-like) pro-cess of the dura mater.
From its dipping down between the two halves of the
brain, the chief purpose of this membrane seems to be to
relieve the one side from the pressure of the other, when
we are asleep, for example, or have the head reclining to
either side. The membrane does not descend to the
bottom of the brain, except in a small part, at the front
and back. It descends about two thirds of the depth of
the whole brain. At the point where it terminates, a
mass of fibres, named the corpus callosum, passes between
and connects the two hemispheres.
"Each half or hemisplu.1·e of the brain is, in its turn,
divided,-but in a less marked way, as tbe divisions are
observable only on its inferior snrface,-into three por-
tions, called, from their situations, the anterior, middle,
and posterior lobe:;, each occupying nearly a third of the
whole length of the brain. The anterior lobe, occupies
the forehead ; the middle is that portion lying above and
a little in front of the ears; and the posterior Jobe is that
portion which corresponds to the back part of the head.
"Beneath the posterior lobe, a strong fold of the dura
mater, called the tentorium, is extended horizontally to
support and separate it from the cerebellum or little brain,
lying below it. The cerebeJJum forms the last great di-
vision of the contents of the skull. Its surface is marked
by convolutions, differing, hovrever, in size and appear-
ance from those observed in the brain.
"Adhering to the surface of the convolutions, and con-
sequently dipping down into, and lining the sulci or fur-
rows between them, another membrane, of a finer tex-
ture, and greater vascularity, called pia mate1·, is found.
The blood vessels going to the brain branch out so ex-
tensively on the pia mater, that, when a little inflamed, ·
it seems to constitute a perfect vascular net-work. This
RE~IARKS ON TllE BR.\IN. 43
manner; but .ta word to the wise is sufficient." If wl1at
w~ have said ~hall be fully adopt~d, the happy re:sults
will, we trust, mduce parents to take these hints as a text
for the cultivation of all the powers, and 1hey will find
the reward to supercede the effort, JiiH~ a harvest of an
1wn<lred fold. When this svstem of education shall be
ful~y understood as bciug dictated by P/n·wology, the
UllJil"t au<.i thread-bare Cf)" offata/ism wi)J be hu::,lted for·
ever, and those who have hitherto stood aloof from the ~ci­
ence nnd ridiculed its ad\'ocate!', will become the happy
recipients of its benefits, and the generations to come will
ble:::;s the memory of tho::;e who now toil to establish and
promulgate it; while the iri11nortnl GALL and ~runzur:nu,
shall ha\'e in every philanthropic soul, a richer and moie
enduring cenotaph, than crumbles O\er the asl)es of the
proudest conquerors.
RE:\1.\.tms oN TilE m-:..uN.
Dr. Andrew Combe, in" his work on Physiology appli-
ed to Health and Education, gives a description of the
braiu, an extract of which is here introduced.
"The brain is that large organized mass, which, along
'vith its enveloping membranes, completely fills the cavi-
ty of the sl<uiJ. It is the seat of thought, of feeling, and
of consciousness; and the centre towards which ull im-
pre~sions made on the nerves distrilmted through the
body are conveyed, and from which the commands or the
will nre transmitted to put the various parts in motion.
"The structure of the brain is so compi icaled, that less
is known of its true nature than of that of nlmost any
other orcran. It would therefore be entirely out of place
to atten~pt to describe it here, farther than by stating
crenerally irs principal divisious. On sawing off the top
~f the skull, and rerno\·ing the firm tough membrane
called the dw·a motu (hard mother,) n hich adhe~es close-
ly to its conca,·e surface, the crrt:brum. or braw PJ"OJl.e1'
pre!;cnts itscl f, marked on the surface wtth a great vane-
ty of nndulntincr windintTS or convolutions, anu extending
from tbc fore to the ba~k part of the head, somewhat in
RE~IARKS ON TilE DR.UN. 45
mi.nut~ subdivision is of usc in preventing the blood from
b.emg Impelled with too great force against the delicate
hssue of the brain.
" A third coverinu, called the arachnoid membrane
Ji
• 0 J
rom tts fineness resemblincr that of a spider's web is in-
c '
terposed between the other two, and is frequently the
seal of disease.
"On examining the convolutions in different brains,
they are found to vary a good deal in size, depth. and
general appearance. In the \'ariou::; reuions of the same
brain they are also differeut, but prese~ve the same gen-
?ral aspect. Thus they are a) w~tys smnll and numerous
m the anterior lobe, larger and deeper in the middle, and
still larger in the posterior Jobe."
The convolutions, (which is a kind of folding of its
surface) gire complexity to the brain, designed, as it is
supposed to impart a large nerrous surface in a small
space. The convolutions arc few and shallow in the
brains of the inferior animals, more numerous and deep
as we rise in the scale of animated existence to man,
and physiologists inform us, that the brains of men of
the highest grade of intellect, are marked much more
deeply than those of ordinary talents.
Phrenologists mal<e another division of the brain into
some thirty eight or forty organs, in each hemisphere of
the brain, so that the phrenological organs are aJI double
(like those of sight, hearing, &c.,) and are usuaJJy ue\o·e]-
oped equally in each side of the head. This division of
the brain into organs, is objected to by anti-phrenologists
because, ~ay they, nature has not made the demarkation,
and fortified each like fenced lots, so that it may bE> dem-
onstrated where one oruan leaves off and another begins.
How will the doctrine ~f this objection compare with the
known arrangement of other parts of the constitution 1
It is well known to Physiolouists that the nerres of \'Ol-
uutary motion and nerves of s~nsation are gi\·en off from
the spinal column touethP-r, and enveloped in one com.
mon sheath and thatthe most skilful anatomist, cannot
,
tell by their appearance, any difference in their structure
or probat~le fui1ctions; but by se\·ering or compressing
one part of this delicate structure, all power of motion
46 REl\IARKS ON TfiE BRAIN.
ceases, while sensation remains perfect, and vice versa.
Now, a bundle of nerves may be given off and packed
together like the fibres of a silken thread, each having a
different office to perform, though no human eye can de-
tect the difference in their nature, except by such exper-
iments as abo,·e cited: so the brain may be composed of
a congeries of organs, each of which have a nature, and
an office to perform, as diverse as seeing and hearing, or
of motion and sensation.
That these organs exist, and that each acts to perform
its appropriate function, may be inferred from the fact
tbat different parts are large and small in the same head
and the faculties strong or weak to correspond w1th the
development. By an observation of this fact, Drs. Gall
and Spurzheim were led to the discovery of phrenology.
Again, different parts of the brajn have been injured, re-
moved, or become locally diseased and the faculties of
the organs thus affectf'd, ha\'e been deranged or lost.
By a laborious collection and comparison of facts,
which exhibit a uniform concomitance between the de-
velopment of the brain and character, has the science of
Ph•·enology been discovered, and establi~hed in the minds
of all who have thoroughly examined the subject. Spec~
ttfations mu~t yield to factB, the ob~ervation and classifi-
cation of whic'l1, indeed, constitute the only substantial
scientific basis; and we will conclude this chapter by re-
I,eating the words of ils great fout'lder; "Phrenology i!j
true, though at enmity ''vith the phi!osophy of ages,1
>
ExPL.\NATION OF THE CHAR'I'.
All heads are la1·ge or small, or occupy some interme-
diate size: the same is true of each of the organs; hence
in publi:::hing a chart, we recognize seYen sizes of the
head and of each of the organs, and to indicate the ~ize
of the head, or of the 01·gans of the head examined, we,
use the written figures 7, 6, 5, 4., 3, 2, 1. 7, spows that
the organ is very large; 6 large; 5 full; 4 average; 3,
tnodPrate; 2 small; and 1 ve,'!J .~;mall.
The sign t (plus, or more) signifies that the orgun is
,. little larger than it is mnr.ked. The sign-(minus, Ol'
CLASSIFICA'I'IO~ OF THE FACULTIES. 47
less) placcfl under a figure, shows that it is Jec;s than it is
marked. \V hen marked 4 to .) &c., both scnteuces may
be rend, and a me<.liu:n uetwccn the two wiiJ be applica-
ble.
Jn the combinations, the names of the orrrans are ab-
breviated thus: A mat. for Amativeness, Pl1il~. for Philo-
progcnitiveness, &c.-The render i~ r~quf'::;ted w!wre it
is not written, to supply the ellipsis, 'One having the or-
gan tmgc l~~c.:
SIZE 01' TilE IIE.\D.
A full sized and well balanced head, should 1neasure
in horizoutal circumference, twenty two iuchc", and
from the root of the nose ov<;r the t0p of the head to
the occipital protuberance at tlle lower punt •1 of the
bac:.l<-head, fourteen iuchc'-.
The nbsolute size of the brain may l1e ver) hrge and
the organs of the intdlt:ct small, and the rc•sult will be
great propelling, with f'l.'ehlc directing power. Such is
the ca::5C with mn.uy lndi·1n Chiet:.-.
PtJ·~on::; lwvinrr olarts tlun(orP., slwzdrl ~tolia tht! size
,.., , ~
of l'ar!t das:; of urgan-.;, brji1n! Hwuning up clwrw It r.
CLASSIFICATION OF TilE FACULTIES.
Phrcno!ogicnl writers do nol n~rce in the c)ac;sificntion
of the f<tcult ics. So111e appear to ha\'C changed, merely
for the sake of original11y without any imprO\cment.
The clu;-;sific:-ttion, \\'hivh seems the mo::.t con~i.:-.tcnt and
true to uat urc, is that of the l\1cssrs. Fo\\'lcr, which we
shall follow, and hereby girc credit accotdtngly. I.t is
of little consequence \\hat numbc1·s arc ~mployed m. a
work to desi2natc the organs, as the facultte::. arc not m
the Jca-.t affected by it.
''1'/1"faculties are divided info tmo CLASSES, o~ ?nnF.~s,'
(.fn liu~s and intcllcr.t) 'and l~cs~ arc :-.uf)(/u•u,lr:d uti~
seve1·al GENERA., and tlu!sc agmn wto several SPECJEs.
48 CLASSIFICATION OF TDE FACULTIES.
The annexed cut,shows the location of the several clas-
ses of organs, each of which should be equally developed.
Order I. AFFECTlYE FAcuLTIEs oR FEELINGs.
These embrace all those propensities, sentiments and
emotions, either animal, human, or rnoral,which may be
denominatedfeelings,and constitute the most vivid class of
all the mental operations. They spring into spontaneous
activity whenever their natural stimuli are presented, and
produce the desires which demand gratification. All
these feelings are blind in themselves, and need the guid-
ance of an enlightened intelJect.
Genus I. PROPENSITIES.
These bring man into harmony with nature as an ani-
mal being, and impart those desires and emotions which
relate to his physical existence. The feelings which
induce propagation, love of offspring, self-preservation
and defence, are in man, precisely what they are in the
lower animals. The propensities as a whole, impart
force, efficiency, and general energy of character, and
the impetus to act.
..1\:\UTI\'ENEES. 49
St,ecies I. Do:\tEsTtc PRoPENSITIEs.
From these arise the social affections, and the desire
for society and intercourse, and they lay the foundation for
the counubial, fraternal and civil institutions of mankind.
~Vht•n tlw~e organs arc lorge,tlte back part of flte ltcad
i" elongated; wltcn small, tlte ~ame region is s!tort a1ld
pcrpcndicula,·. Sec cuts, No. 5 and 6., p. 54..
1 . A 1\I A T IV EN E S S .
Reciprocal attaclwlf'f1l and love of tlte sexes.
'rhe cerebellum,(little bNrin) situated between and be-
hind the opening of the cars in the base of the e;kull, is
the organ of this propensity. it is separated from the
brain proper, by a stron<T membrane called the fcnloriwn.
The brain proper and tl~e cerebellum, arc brought into
connection, by being united to the uu:dt,lfa oblmwata.
'l'he size of the organ i::; determined, by the downward
and backward development of the base of the skull at the
hack ofthe neck, and width between the ma~toid procl'sscs.
3. :-;tephcn Burroughs. 4. l\Ir.
) Amativenc-:s, !'lll:tll.
50 AMATIV£NESS.
ADAPTATION. The design of this faculty ,(see Genesis
1 : 28,) is the reproduction of the species, which serves to
replenish the earth ·with inhabitants, who are constantly
passing to decay and death,'to that bourne from whence
no traveler returns.'
Benevolence produces kindness, but it is not limited to
our own species; it pities a worm as much as a king. It
does not stop to ask whether its object is of our own
family, nation, or even a human being; it only inquires if
tltc being is susceptible ofsuffering. Adhesiveness produ-
ces sympathy and general friendship between equals with-
out regard to sex; but Amativeness is the foundation of
. connubial lm·e, and produces those tender and generous
sentiments, that politeness and affability which is recipro-
cal between the sexes. It is the fundamental elemeut ~r
that strong desire to please the opposite sex, of which no
well balanced mind is de!'titutc. Blot out this feeling,
and the institution of marriage, of ci,·ilization and society
in general, would tumble into ruin, Cffid the earth become
an unpopulated waste.
When this faculty is accompanied with large Bcne\'o-
lence, Adhe~ivencl:'s and Philoprogcnitivene:-s, and guided
by an enlightened intellect and strong moral feeling:::, ; the
most exalted and refined affectwn is produced between
the sexes, which can exist on earth; and \vhen thus direct-
ed by the higher powers, no faculty more than this, sub-
serves the glory of God, or the happiness of his creature
man; and it may be added, that the abuse of no one pro-
duces a greater amount of misery.
Licentiou~ness is the direct abuse of this faculty :(see
Exouus 1: 14,) but there are man) indirect abuses of the
propeusity. Amativeness, often furni~hes the moti,·e for
the abuse of several other faculties. For example : Ac-
qnisitireness is often aroused to acquire the means by
which it may be gratified; Secretiveness, to practice de-
ception and hypocri~y ; DcstructiYcne~s and CombatiYc-
ne~~, to overcome and even murder inten cuing obstacles;
indeed the brightest intellect bows to the promptings of
this unbridled passion, and lends a willing auxiliary, to
devise ways and means for its abuse. Thus we see why
men of lofty intellect, arc often guilty in this respect; in-
AMATIVENESS. 51
deed it has almost passed to a proverb, that intellectual
grentness aud licentiousness, go hand in band. This pro-
r.ensity shou~d be trained, and kept in check by well cul-
tJ~ated moral powers, and then the flood of impurity and
Wickedness shall be rolled back to its native nicrht, which
• 0
ts now sweeping over society,bearing upon its turbid waves
thousands ofdevoted victims, from moral purity to wrctch-
e.dness and ruin. Ignorance on this subject, is no protec-
tiOn for the young. To the parent it is a delusive hope~
the Siren's song which luJls to security until the dread
reality of its abuse, is forced upon the misguiJ.ed and un-
suspecting parent. Let the moral and intellectual pow-
ers be well disciplined with reference to this faculty; and
it shall no longer 'riot, with all the fierceness of a blind
animal instinct.'
VERY LARGE. One having Amativeness wry largr, is
very tender and attentive to the other sex; seeks their
society, covets their favor, courts popularity with them,
makes many sacrifices to please; will seek friends in the
opposite sex; confide in, and trust them with secrets;
ever speak of them with lively emotions ; and with large
Ideality, will eelebrate them in song.
Ifthe whole minJ be well balanced, and well instructed,
the person will be likely to marry young, and become a
devoted, affectionate companion, and be bountl up in the
family relation. If a father, will desire daughters, and
lo,·c them mora than sons; if a nwtlwr, tlte reverse will be
the case.
L \ttGE. One in whom Amativeness is lm·ge, will re-
gard the opposite sex with attention and respect; ~:eek
their society ; desire intense]y, to be in favor with them ;
and try to say, and do things, so as to please; sooner be
unpopular with all their own, than one of the other sex;
and always anticipate their convenience ~nd pleasure.
Combinec.l with large Adhes. and Consct., the person
will clintr to one beloved object, with strong and lasting
love. 'Vith large Ideal., will admire those who possess
correct taste, ease, elegance, and refinement of manners;
and with large Form1 Size1 Color, and Order added, will
52 AMATIVENESS.
admire personal beauty; with large Acquis., will be ind~s­
trious to provide for the wants of that friend, and w1th
larae Self-Esteem and Appro., will be ambitious that oth·
ers
0
shall appreciate their admirable qualities, and praise
them. If the moral and intellectual faculties predominate~
the person wiJJ regard those who are inteJligent, and moral ;
and found his choice upon those qualities; but, if the
moral and intellectual faculties be weak, and Ideal., Ap-
pro., and Adhes., small, the mere animal gratification of
this faculty, will be the only bono of union; and there·
suit wi11 be, ,·ulgarity and obscenity in language and
manners; ineonstancy, lascivtousness, and matrimonial
infidelity.
FuLL. One having Amat. full, will take delight in
the society of the opposite sex, and be capable of feeling
the keen sting of Cupid's dart; but will have less intensi-
ty of this feeling, than is described under Amat. large.
'Vith large, or very large Adhes., and large moral organs,
wilJ be more steady and con~tant in connubial attach·
ment, than remarkably ardent.
AvER.\GE. One having Amat. average, combined with
an acti\·e temperament, will have some ardor of affection
for the opposite sex; but attended with more activity,
~han intensity, and will not be liable to abuse the faculty.
Combined with large moral organs, the person will look
upon licentiousness as one of the worst of crimes, and
with Destruct. and Firm. full, added, will seYerely censure
those who h<n·e fallen victims to the sexual passion, and
make no a1lowance for the easily besetting sin of others.
Other motives than the sexual impulse, will operate in
determining to early marriage; expediency, as well as de-
sire, will be consulted. If Acquis. be large, will be par·
ticular to gratify it, in the choice.
With large Appro., and Self-Esteem, will think ofthe
character, and high standing of the chosen one. 'Vith
the intellectual and moral organs Jarg~, combined with
very large Ideal., Order, and Appro., will select one with
a cultivated mind, acute moral sense, and great delicacy,
and refinement of taste and manners ; will even be fastid-
'
PliiLOPROGE!'\ITIVENESS. 53
ious in this respect. If Caution be large, and Combat.
moderate, will be bashful, and timid in the company of
the oppo ite sex; and with large Ideal., will be chaste in
conduct and convcr!Satiou.
1\[ornmATE. One having Amat. only modtratc, will be
rather ~low to form attachmeuts to the other sex; will be
coutrolled by the other faculties in makinrr a selection
nnd par~imonious of encomiums upon the r~;:,y check o;
ma11ly form, of admirers.
If Caution be large, an(l Combat. and J<lca1. average,
will be retiring, di:stant aud ba:shful, and lack the power
to please, or become captivating to those having the or-
gan, full or large; will be forgetful of the claims of the
other sex, and lack the common etiquette of'society, and
be respected more than lo\'ed. 'Vith Adh<>s. a\erage,
will have a general respect for all, rather than strong love
for unc.
S:uALL. One having Amat. small, with an ardent tem-
perament, will occasionally feel the promptings of the
atnorous feeling, but very rarely abuse it. 'Vi11 be tem-
perate in professions, and wanting in polite attention,
and urbanity of manners toward the other sex.
VERY S:'tiALL. One in whom Amat. is very small, is
almost, if not wholly destitute of that feeling \'rhich re-
gard:; the opposite sex as such.
2. PIIILOPROGENITIVENESS.
Parental louc, attachment to cltildrcn, young animals,
pds, '-~~c.
The organ is located in the middle of the posterior
portion ofthe head, just above the occipital spine. When
large the head is elongated from the opening of the ears
backward, and when small, the bead is short and perpen-
c.licular in the back part.
•
54 PIIILOPROGENITIVENESS.
5. An Afi'ectionate 1\fotl•er. G. Big T hunder, an Indian Chi£\f.
2 Philoproerniti\'cnel"s, vcr)" large 2 Philoprogen.itiwne~1:.1, Yerr .:mall.
1 Amativeuc,;:> t;l!lall. l simatin:nei>s nry laq~·e.
ADAPTATION. The helpless young, require attention
and sustenance, without which, their production would
be useless. All young animals, which, in their nature
cannot sub<>ist independently of their progenitors, natu-
ra11y look up to the parent, for the supply of aU their
wants; and the Creator has made it as much a part of
the nature of such parents to protect and proYide for their
young, as to produce them. Hence, from Amat., we in-
fer the necessity of Philo., to care for and protect, the
fruit of that faculty.
The ant, deposites its eggs in a place of security; the
feathered tribes, after the tender progeny is hatched, pro-
vide for their wants, and house them under their wino-s;
while the various genera of quadrupeds, (from the :le-
phant down to the ferret,) manifest such care and tender-
ness for their young, as their nature and circumstances
require. 1\lany animals and birds which are naturally
timid, will fight desperately against superior animals, in
defence of their young. Nothing, but the love of off-
spring, (not even hunger or life,) could impart such cour-
age, and cause the bear to fall dead between the lion and
her cubs; or, the timid partridge, to assault man. Love
of offsprino-, is not the fruit of general benm·olence as
some have
0
supposed; for who will attribute a feelin; of
benevolence to the tiger, or the rapacious hyena ; ~nd
PliiLOPROGI~l\1'1'1\'Er\ESS. 55
what animals arc more attcnti\'e to their progeny 1 Pa-
rental love, then, is a distinct faculty, and manifested by
au appropriate and di~tiucti,•e orgnn. No other faculty
can ~upply the place of thi~, ami without it allllost C\'ery
1 . '
.)cmg, which is intro1luced into the world, would perish
m the da\\ n of its exi:::iteuce, au<.l the eal'lh become de-
populated.
The abuse of thi:::; faculty, is au o\·erwecnina f<mdne::_
for children, which will ~roil them by imluloen~e in ~uch
thing:::i a::; will injure them; the failure to trniu them prop-
erly; the feeding of them with unhealthy daiutics; and
depriving the dl'.ar rrutluNs of healthy exercise in the
open air; aucl the fomlling of lap dogs, &.c.
Females, have this o1gan larger, and the faculty strong-
er, than males; and thi::. is true of animals, as well as of
the human race. All may obsen·e the ~trcugth of thi~
t~tcnlty in the little girl. She carcsse!:i her dull, a little
kitten, or a puppy, with all the fondne:-:-;, anti depth of at:.
fcctiou of a mother; while boys, choo:::;e a hammer, a
knife, a whip, or hobby-horse.
VEn.Y LARGE. One in whom Philo. is lJcry large, be-
comes very strongly attached to children; will do and
suffer much to please and make them happy, and feel the
keenest anxiety for their health and general wei fare ; will
readily get acquainted with, and please the children of
strangers; and if Self-Esteem be moderate, will join in
their childish sports, be fond of telling stories to please
them, and never feel lonely in tlLCir company. \Vith a
well balanced development of all the organs, will watch
with the keenest anxiety and interest, the expanding pow-
ers of the child and also, (like the stork) be l<ind and
temler to parents in their dotage. In the farmer, this
orcran ,·cry large, leads to the raising of young stock,
fo~dncss for horses, pet dogs, birds, &c.
LARGE. One with this organ large, if a parent, will
lo,·e children deeply and tenderly ; be derotedly attached
to them; minister to their wants in health, and feel the
keenest solicitude for them in sickness, and with large
56 PlliLOPROGENITIVENCSS.
Adhes., ccrefuse to be comforted" when they are taken
away by death. With large moral organs, will stri,·e to
educate their moral feelings, and teach them to "fear God
and work righteousness." 'Vith a strong intellect, and
weak Acquis. added, will think more of educating chil-
dren well, than of leaving them weallhy. Reverse this
combination and the reverse will be true in the manifes-
tation.
With Lang. and Event. large, and Self-Esteem moderate,
will talk much to children, enter into their feelings and
interests, relate anecdotes, and with large Individ., Local.,
Form and Size added, will describe persons, places,
countries, dress and manners, and traditionate them into
the history of external nature ; in a word, will become ex-
ceedingly popular with children, and be qualified by na-
ture for a successful teacher. With a weak intellect, and
large Self-Esteem and Appro., will be proud and vain of
children, boast of their qualifications, and crowd thelfl
forward to their di advantage; and with strong Acquis.,
and feeble moral organs added, will be more anxious to
see them rich, powerful, showy and fashionable, than
"only great, as they are good."
FuLL. One in whom Philo. is only full, \vill not be
passionatrly fond of children, or pets, or feel a lively,
special interest in children, as such; or hare a good fac-
ulty to gain their atte~ntion and friend:ship, or to please
them when they are ill natured; will lack patience when
they are fretful, either in the capacity of a parent, nurse, or
teacher. IfFirm., Self-Esteem, Destruct., and Combat.
be large, wil1 be stern in government, and cau~e children
to fear and respect, more than to love; but, if Appro. be
large, with Fam., Self-Esteem, Destruct. and Combat.
only avcragr, the per~on will readily become familiar with
children, and often join in their conversation and child-
ish sports; and with large Adhes. added, will love them
dearly, as they become playful, and old enough to be as-
sociates and friends, and at the same time, will not be
likely to spoil them by indulgence; but educate, and
train them consistently with their station in life.
PUILOPR.OGENITIVENESS. 57
AVE~AGE, will love children, pets, &c., well enough
to provide for their wants; but v;iJl not suffer them to
rule, or swerve the mind from other objects of attach-
ment. WiJl regard their comfort and general welfare,
without being too indulgent for the good of the child, or
convenience of the parent, and will seldom play with, or
take much trouble to please children. \Vith larcre Be-
nev., Consci., Adhes., andlnhab., combined with moderate
Destruct., Combat., and Self-Esteem, will value home,
and the domestic circle, highly; and be warmly attached
to children, and manife::;t much tenderness and affection
for them, and the more so, as they advance in years,
with large Acquis., and a good intellect added, will de-
sire to see children become learned, wealthy and honara-
ble; and feel honored when the cltild is honored. "\!Vith
the above combination and Acqnis. moderate, will sur-
render property, and the managemeut of business to a
son, and be willing to Jive witlt, and lean upon ldrn, in
old age. With Jarge Acqnis. and Self-Esteem, will
choose to hold possession of the homestead, and the man-
agement of business till death, and think that a son can-
not manage well.
MoDERATE, has but little patience with children, and
cannot endure their noise and prattle ; is a poor child-
nurse, and ought never to become a step-parent, or teach-
er of young children. Large moral organs will Jead to
the performance of the duties of protection and provi-
dence, but there will be wanting the thousand little pa-
rental cares, and that overflowing tenderness described
under this organ large , which is among the very strong-
est of the social manifestations.
S.l\tAT.L, '"'i11 show Yery little love, and no fondness,
for childt·en, or pets of any kind. With large Combat.
and Destruct., and only full Benev., will be seYere, and
sometimes abuse, and often, scold them.
VERY SMALL, dislikes children and pets, altogether.
58 ADHESIVENESS.
3. ADHESIVENESS.
Attachment to friends; instinctive desire to love,
This organ is located upward, and outward from Phi-
loprogenitiveness, and just above the lambdoidal suture.
ADAPTATION. The history of man in all ages of the
world, proves him to be fond of society and intercourse,
and naturally inclined to friendship and love. In the
savage state, a village of rude huts huddled together and
filled with the wild inhabitants of the forest, where the
pleasures of social intercourse can daily be enjoyed, is the
result of this faculty. In the civilized state, mankind
congregate in cities and villages ; forl;D societies for so-
cial worship; to devise means to promote the general wel-
fare; and for the interchange of friendly feelings. This
natural desire in the human race to congregate together,
is the direct result of Adhesiveness. A love of the do-
mestic circle, arises from a large development of all the
social organs. Philanthropy, is produced by Benevo-
lence; but, constancy in friendship may exist when that
organ is small, if Adhesiveness be large. Its absence,
leads to false professions of friendship, for the purpose of
gratifying some of the selfish propensities. It is usually
larger in the female, than in the male head, which coin-
cides with the difference in the character of the two sexes.
"In woman alone, can friendship be found in the fulness
of perfection." Frieudship, founded on large Adhesive-
ness combined with large moral organs, cannot be shaken
by adversity, and is as lasting as lifE>. A striking exam-
ple is recorded in Ruth, 1 : 16, 17. Without this fa-
culty, the pleasures resulting from society, and friendly
attachment, could not be enjoyed. Some animals mani·
fest this feeling , herd together and go in droves, '' hile
others )ead a solitary life. The dog manifests it, in at..
tn.chment to his master. Poets having this organ larget
breathe its language in their writings. The followimr
lines from Moore, show strong Adhesiveness. ~
"The thread of onr life would be dnrlc, Heaven knows;
If it were not with friendship and love intertwined,
And I care not how soon I may sink to repose,
)Vhen these blessings shall cease to be dear to m! mind.'t
lNIIADITlVENESS. 61
4. INHABITIVENESS.
Love of country and !tome, attacltment to place.
This organ is located between Concentrativeness and
PhiJoprogenitiveness.
"What makes the home? il:l it the shadowed cot,
The mansion house, the palace, or the spot
Of mingled IJeanty, olendmg in the heart
Things which crr.rtle a love, a home ofa.rt?
Oh, no! Th.i~ feeling of a home comes forth
From 'neath the soul's pure throne, as not ofearth."
ADAPTATION. Travelers, who have visited the differ-
-ent nations of the earth, and studied the character of
man, both in the enlightened and savage state, in cold,
and warm climates, residing in fertile vales, or on rocky
and unproductive mountains, have noticed, that wherever
the human species exist they manifest a strong feeling of
attachment to the place of their nativity. The hardy Ice-
lander, wrapped in furs, defying the wintry blast, speaks
of !tis native island as being the most lovely spot on earth,
and the dusky son ofAfrica, panting under the scorching
rays of a tropical sun, boasts of Ids native country, and
believes it the best on the globe. 'fhe Swiss have this
organ large, and their patriotism and love of home, is a
matter of public notoriety. In view of this fact, the poet
says ofthat people,
"Hear the bra' e Swis:-, his nati\'C Alps among,
His moss-gray cot, in sheh·.ing ledges hung:
Rave on ye ~torrns, sweet, dreodful songsters, rave,
Mad ns yc are, this Alp is not a. waYc
That yc can roll it; and this soul is not
A thing to be transplanted: for this spot
J love, 'mid all its awful neighbors-rock,
And avalanche, and thunder and the shock
Of elc•mcnts in battlc-~peed ye ! blow
l\ly tir~side smoke away, but I shall never go."
lnhabitiveness, is usually larger in women than in men,
which agrees with the difference, manifested in the sexes,
respectina attachment to place. It is frequently the
case, that the husband is anxious to remove from his
native town, for the purpose of gain, and the wife ob-
6
60 ADHESIVENESS.
Self-Esteem, will seek for associates among the higher
classes, and with large Acquis. added, will court the fa-
vor of the rich, and look with sovereign contempt on
the poor.
FuLL, will manifest considerable attachment to rela-
tives and friends; yet lack that warmth of friendship,
which characterizes one with this organ very large. One
having Adhes. full, with large moral organs, will be a
sincere, but not an ardent fi·iend; and if unsuccessful in
the matter of Jove, will not be much affected by it.
AvERAGE, has a good share of friendly feeling, and
manifests considerable ardor of attachment, when the ob-
ject oflove is present; yet will not grie"e at parting with
friends, or tnkc much trouble to visit them when ahsent;
with large Mirth. and Hop~, wiJl choose a witty, gay,
and cheerful companion or fi·icnd; but with those organs
moderate, and Caution, Ven., Benev., and Consci. large,
will prefer one who is sedate, reverential, kind and hon-
est.
~Iomm.ATr., is not capable of forming lasting friend-
ship; will be cold and distant to relati\'es; with large
Acquis., will try to gain the friendship of the afHuent,
and perh:tp~ succeed in his endeavors; but would prove a.
traitor, if that wealth which was the foundation of at-
tachment, should be lost.
S:o.tALI., forms slight att~chments; may appear friendly
to some, to gratify the love of gain, or the love of distinc-
tion, if Acquis. and Appro. be large; with weak mor-
al feelings and strong sellish propensities, will make loud
protestations of friendship merely for the sake of popu-
larity, and his secret maxim will be, "out of sight out of
mind."
VERY Sr.rAI.L, is a stranger to the joys of friendship,
and the pleasures of social life; may make professions of
attachment from sinister motives, but never feels the
warm emotions of tender affection.
ADIIESIV.ENESS~ 59
The pr()per exercise of Adhesiveness, furnishes much
enjoyment to man while he is connected with sublunary
objects How sweet are the joys of friendship, and how
pleasant when every thing is dreary around us, when for-
tune frowns and fame like a bubble floating on the ocean,
is dashed to endless night by the waves of disappointment,
to have a circle of friends, honest and kind, who are in
reality "friends in need," with whom we can associate,
and take as much delight as if wealth and fame were
ours! Imagination cannot conceive the misery that would
speedily ensue, if this feeling were annihilated. The
word Frif'nrlsltip, would be expunged from every lan-
guage, and its joys be known no more.
VERY LARGE. One having Adhes. very large, will
possess ardent and devoted friendship; cling to friends
even in ad\ ersity; have a ''ery strong desire for their wel-
fare, and think much of them when absent. Combined
with large Bencv., and fuiJ Acquis., will often sacrifice
personal interest, to benefit relatives, or friends; with
large Consc1., will be sincere, and never forsake a
friend; wil h large, or very large Caution, and Finn., \Vill
be slow in forming attachments, but when once formed
they will ''bear the seal of eternity;" with very large
Amat., Philo., and Inhab., will be extremely fond of the
domestic circle, and cannot be contented without daily
intercomsc in that circle, and if obliged to leave it for a
few <lays, will be Yery unhappy.
L ,\RGF., will manifest much affection for relations and
friend", and take great satisfaction in ad,·ancing their in-
terc::~ts, and rendering their condition agreeable and hap-
py; with lar.ge Secret., may love strongly and not make
any profcs~ions of attachment; with very large Combat.,
will contend for the rights of friends, and never allow
them lo be in:sulted, or wronged, without wishing to re-
clrc:ss their grievances; ·with large Firm. and Consci.,
will be const.mt and honest in all professions of friend-
ship i but, with Conscien. moderate, and Secret., and
Acquis. large, will be governed much by circumstances,
.:and ::;omctimcs prove treacherous to them ; with large
INHABITIVENESs'.
jects, and promptly refuses to accompany him. In view
of this fact, therefore, man should make due allowance
for the natural inclination in woman to remain in the
Janel of her nativity, and not accuse her of weakness, for
acting out a noble impulse, a feeling implanted withirr
her, by the God of nature.
The ancient Jews, manifested this feeling in a remark-
able manner, when captives in a strange land, and far
from their native country. They hung their harps upon
t.he willows, and by the rivers of BabyJon, wept, when
they remembered the laud of their nativity. But we need
not go back to ancient history to find instances of strong
attachment to native climes; for many of our acquaint-
ances in New England, who leave the home of their
childhood, for the "far west," after a short 8tay become
discontented. and return to the place which gave them
birth. Others, whose circumstances render it impossi-
ble for them to return, drag out a miserable existence.
Their minds dwell much upon the lovely hiJls and vales
of their own New England; they think of the beautiful
fields where they ramLied in childhood's blissful hours~
of the silvm· stream which passed near their rural dwell-
ing ; and then with a sigh, look abroad upon fields far more
fruitful than those they left behind, but they have no
charms for a homesick mind. The history of nations
and individuals, shows that the love of country and home
is an innate feeling in the human mind ; and an obser-
vation of facts, proves the existence of the organ through
which this feeling is manifested. Were it not for lnhab-
itiveness, many parts of the earth which are uow peopled,
wonld be the abodes, only of inferior animals.
In view of this feeling of attachment to place, 1\fr.
Fowler in his worl< on Matrimony, argues the necessity
of all heads of families owning a house and garden spot,
and speaks ugainst the renting system as practiced in our
large cities, as being the cause of much distress.
VERY LARGE, will have a very great regard for home;
cannot be contented without one, will leave it for a shm·t
time even~ with much reluctance, and, on returning
home1 after a few months' absence, when the eye first
INHABITIVENESS. 63
catches a glimpse of native hi1Is ; will experience intense
delight. With Adhes. very large, will be homesick when
traveling, or stopping with strangers.
LARGE, feels strong attachment to native count1·y, .,
leaves horne with regret and returns with cheerful de-
light; with full, or large Acquis., may go abroad to ob-
tain means to make home happy, or to purchase a per-
manent place of abode, and when traveling, will receive
much satisfaction from the hope, that the pleasures of a
home will one day be realized; with large Ven. and
Self-Esteem, will be patriotic; with large Individ. and
Local., wit! have a strong desire to travel, but love
home too well to be a great rover; v.-ith large Combat.,
Destruct., and Sell-Esteem, will think much of national
honor, and be willing to contend in the field of battle to
secure it.
FuLL, desires to haYe a local habitation, and mani-
fests considerable attachment to place of residence; with
very large Adhes., will think more of leaving relatives
and friends, than any particular locality.
AvERAGE, is rather fond of the home of childhood, but
if urged by large Acquis. and the hope of gain, can leave
the place of abode and the home of youth without much
regret, and give all local attachment to another, although
the last siluation may not be as pleasant as the first.
:MoDERATE, has no particular regard for any spot on
earth, feels but little regret in leaving home and is never
homesick; with Adhes. and Philo. very large, and Local.
moderate, will have a fixed place of residence, in order
to gratify Lhe feelings of attachment to relatives and
ftiends.
S:\UJ.L, is very indifferent respecting the place ol
abode: soon becomes weaned from the home of child-
hood, feels no uneasiness if obliged to change the place
of residence often, and with Individ. and Local. large,
and Adhes. only full, will be likely to lead a roving lif~,
64 CONCENTRATIVENESS.
VERY SMALL, feels at home in any placE', forms no
local attachments; with Acquis. moderate, will care
nothing about owning a house and piece of land, and
will be likely to live on hire, and change place of resi-
dence often.
5. CONCENTRATIVENESS.
This is not classed with any other, as it seems to serve
as a balance-wheel, for all the other faculties.
Tltis m·gan is supposed to give 'unity and continuity of
thought andfeeling; power oferttire and concentrated ap-
plication to one thing.' Its abuses are, protracted and
unneccssa1·y brooding upon one subject, study or pursuit,
to tlte exclusion ofincidental duties.
It is located between Inhabitiveness and Self-Esteem.
ADAPTATION. Some Phrenologists are not fu1Jy satis-
fied of the existence of such a faculty. Dr. Spurzhcim
unites this organ and Inhabitiveness together, under the
name of Iuhabitiveness; because animals and men being
full in this region, seemed attached to particular places.
l\1r. Geo. Combe docs the same, yet calls it Concentra-
tiveness; while the .Messrs. Fowler, and others, maintain
the existence of both; the upper portion giving unity
and continuity of thought and feeling; the lower portion
attachment to home.
We have made numerous observations with respect to
this organ for the last four years, upo11 the heads of per-
sons of almost every nation, and of every class of people
in the United States, and bave become fully satisfied ofits
location, and the office which it performs. The follow-
incr facts and reflections will show the foundation of our
co~clusion, and are submitted with the hope that others
will institute an examination of their merits upon living
heads; always accompauied with an inquiry into this trait
of character of those, in whom this part of the head is
large or small.
CONCENTRATIVENESS. 65
We believe, that oue reason of the dirersity of opin-
ion among Phrenologists, in relation to the existence of
this organ, has ariseu from the fact, that it is locatetl up-
on, or ncar the lambdoidal suture, which often presents a
l>ony ridge with a depression above it; thereby rendering
~ determination of its size quite uucertaiu.
Some persons lore /tome and place strongly, yet in
thought, feeling and pursuit they are restlcr;s, fickle and
erratic; commence mauy things and finish nothing, and
break off in the middle of an anecdote to relate another,
and perhaps never return to the first, while others
arc exactly the reverse, and the developments in hun-
dreds or cases, we h'l\'1~ found to correspond \vith these
traits of character without a failure in n single instance.
'Vc have also noticed a strilong difference between the
heads of fnrcign~rs and Americans. Foreigners, serve
tooven years for a trade or profe::;sion, and seldom change
their cour:)c of life, and cannot easily turn the hnnd to
a11y thing else. The American, frequently pursues di-
,·crs kinds of business, which imparts not ouly versatility
of talent, but the power to change the mind from one
thing to another with ccleri(1J, or to attend to seYcral
things at the same time, without inconvenience or con-
fusion. /Jere, a man learn~ a trade and quits it for a
t"',_urn or some of the learned professions. Thn trader be-
comes a hwyer, a preacher, an editor, a school master, a
farmer, or a mechanic; aml not a few, range the whole
circiC! of ordinary pursuits, and like the bee, sip from
e·.·ery Hower. l\1oreorer, we ha,·e noticed in the New
England f.1ctory villages, that those girls who hare fol-
lowed weaving in n factory fen sm•eral years, h:H·e the
organ of Conccutrut1rencss much larger than those who
ha,·e oursuecl tl1e common, and more variaule avocations
of Jifd-indeed one c:m select every llJeavu of seven years'
standing, from tl10se '' ho hare followed housekeeping,
The same may be noticed in printers, painters: and en-
gra\'ers.
VeRY Lu~c(o) . One haring very large Concentratire-
nes", can chaiu lhP. mind or the feelings to a particular
study or purpose, and is not ~ati::d1cd, till cverr reason
(;*
66 CONCENTRATlVE.NESS.
and fact are thoroughly examined; \Vill stick closely to
a text or propo~itinn, aud move surely, step by step, to
the conclusion; often communes with self, and is fre-
quently absent-minded. 'Vith large Caus., is \'Cry fond
of truly abstract subjects.
LARGE, is digposed to fix the mind upon but one study
or work at a time; in com ers~tiou, prefers a leading
subject to miscellany; feels disturbed, if not ,·exed, if
spoken to while reading or writing; wishes to complete
an article or chapter before a book or paper i::; laid
aside; and likes to attend to one ami but one thing at a
time, aud is con fused by a multiplicity of cares; frequent-
ly becomes attached to difficult, or men disagreeable la-
bor or l:itudy; when buildin~, always v. ishes to finish en-
tirely; d1::,likes to hare more "irons in the fire·• than can
be \\ell attended to, and prefers a steady business to
'clwrin1r. '
0
FuLL, is able to fix the mind, or to change it from one
subject, study or pursuit to another without ditliculty or
delay, yet generally prefers permanence to change, and
likes to leave nothing unfinished.
AvEit.\G c, is fond of variety, noYelty and change ; is
more intense, thnn continuous in the npplication of the
mind, or the manifestation of the feelings.
1\fooERATE, thinks and feels intensely, yet lacks unity ;
will anticipate a speaker, aud in a book look forward to
see how the story is coming out; will cra\'e variety of
pursuit, and feel that spirit, which characterizes the
American people-a spirit of change and enterprise.
SMALl., OR VERY s~l.\LL, dislikes close application; is
too fond of a change of study or pursuit ;-wiJJ leap fl'om
premise to conclusion, and fail to supply all the connect-
ing linl<s of argument.
COZ!InATIYI~NE5S • G7
. t•ccies II. St-:LPisu Pnol'E~siTIEs.
These desires rand feelings terminate upon self, and
lm\'C direct reference to the pro1notion of incliridual inter-
est aud happint>. s. \Vhcn the organs of these propen~i­
tie arc large, the head is broad at its base and rounded
above the cars, and when small, the head is narrow.
G. C 0 l\1 B A T I V E N E S S .
Spirit of ,·esistancr., toutagc, opposition.
The organ is located abO\'C, and a little bnckward of
the mastoid processes, at the posterior iuferior angle of
the parietal hones, about an inch and a half upward aud
backward of the opening of the ears. \Vhcn large, it
gives width to the head a little back of the top of the
ear:::, and may he a~certaincd by placing the thumb on
one side, and the fiugcrs upon the other, und a continu-
ation of the width of tlJC head from above the car buck-
ward is an indication that Gomuativcncss is large.
AnAJ>T.\TIOX. The de::,ign of this facuhy is to defend,
oppose and resist in general. ft is not adapted merely
to ph) sica.! resistance, it enters largely into moral cour-
age, intellectual enterprises, and gircs that energy of
character which is an essential element of greatne~s.
All great civil and moral rclonuers, require a large de-
' clopment of this faculty, to wect, and overcome error.
lt gi\ es the propcll ing auiJity, courage and force of char-
acter, and eucrgy to taJcut, a11cl moral cfiort. It acts
in oucdicncc to ConscicntiOllSIICSS, in snch patriots as
\\'ashington, in repelling unjust foreign aggression.
Philoprogcniti,·cnc.:>s arouse:; it in the parent to protect
otl~pring. Adhe,:,i\'cness calb it to its aid, in behalf of
dcfcncele:::.-~ friends. It gires fire to the Orator either in
the furnm or pulpit; it ga'e Luther his power, to face
the Papal dynasty, and energy to carry forward the refor-
mation. A man without Combativeness, and its ucigh-
uor Destructiveness, may be compared, to an ax with-
out tcmpcr-goudfor IWL!till!{. A faculty thus useful, in
the discharge of C\ ery moral and social duty, should
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 69
manifest considerable reaistance and general energy of
character. WiJl choose to avoid contentious persons,
law suits, &c., and desire "peace with all men." If
Destruct. and Firm. be large, combined with an active
temperament; will have strong temper when aroused by
repeated insult, but when the opposition ceases, resist-
ance wW also cease.
1\loDERATE, may get angry, but will not be dangerous
or qnarrelsome, and will be lakcly to bear insults and in-
juries, till forbearance "ceases to be a virtue," but can
contend for rights to some extent if driven to it, and with
moderate Caution, will show a tolerable degree of cour-
age. 'With large Firm. and Destruct., and a good intel-
lect, will manifest steady resistance, but will not be rash
or impassioned, and if forced by circumstances to quar-
rel, will contend on the defensire.
SMALL. One having Combat. small, will be too ready
to accept of peace at the expense of personal rights, and
suffer long before resenting an injury; will Jack brarery
and efficiency, :md with Jar-ge social and moral organs,
and only average Destruct. will be pre-eminently amiable
and peaceable; will fail to carry forward any bold enter-
prise of a. political or moral character, where opposition
is to be met, and overcome.
VERY s~u.LL, will be too tame and cowardly, to ac-
complish any thing requiring force and courage, whatev-
er may be the size of other organs.
7. DESTRUCTIVENESS.
E ·
ucutivencss, indignation, efficiency,force, severity.
The organ is located above, and extending a little
backward from the external opening ofthe ear. A large
development of the organ, gives width through the head
from ear to ear. All carnivorous animals, from the lion
to the cat, are very broad through this region of the head,
while herbivorous tribes of animals, such as the camel,
deer, sheep, and rabbit, are narrow in the same region.
69 COMBATIYENESS.
ucrcr be called a bad one. It is only its abuse which
lends to contention :mel quarreling among neighbors,
and between nations. War, is an abuse of this faculty,
(in connection with Acqu is., Self-Etileem and Des-
trnct.) and lil'e a ra7.or which may be used to cut one's
throat, yet in its proper sphere, is useful and necessary.
V r.aY LARGE. One h;wing Combat. very largf.., has very
stronrr resistincr force, and will exert a commanding: in-
::> 0 ~
tlncuce for good or for ill. \Vith an nctire temperament,
will readily fire up to bold re::istnnce in behalf of self,
friends, or property; and has the ability and disposition
to defend rights. \Vitb large reasoning org·tn5, will be
very fond of argument, and contend eame:stly for political
or religious opiuions.
~ LARGE, is conrr~geous, and bold in resi. tance; and
when aroused to high excitement by opposition, or by
some great occasion, will be intrepid, forciule, and com-
mnndiug, in feeling, language, and action. Combined
with ,·cry lnrge Caution, will not be rn:::h, and will ofle11
nppcar timid, and w:1.nting in bra\·ery. Such a person in
the capacity of a soldier, will fight weJI under con.~r, but
uislike an open Held; \\'hen cornered. will be de~perate,
and with small Caution will be reckless. Combined
with a strong intellect. it leads to a lmP. of intellectual
combat; and \\'ith large Appro. and Lang., to a~~ume the
oppo...ite merely for the ~akc of argument. \Vith the
intellectual aud moral organs ouly art"raf!'e, and De~truct.
large; fiJhting and quarrc:ling will be the re.::iult.
F'uLI,, will manifest a fair amount of encrrry force f'
~- ,
and courage, y<'t other organs being cqunl, will not be
quarrelsome, or contentious; c:m ger.erallj take care of
self, and maintain per:-;oual rights, and will not be tram-
pled, or insulted, ami bear it in silence. 'Vith an active
temperament, will be C]Uick tempered, yet will not hold
resentment, uulcss Firlll., nnd Destruct. arc rery larrre-
"Peacc if we can, war if we must," will be the motl~.
A \'ERAGE, "ill prefer an eve11 :=:ea, to a storm, and not
comt oppo"3ition; yet when attacked, or oppressed, wilt
70 DESTRUCTIVENESS
7. Big Thunder.
7 Destructiveness, vrry l.uge.
10 Secretiv~n~ss, very large.
8. Ceylonc:>c Boy.
7 De1'tructivene:-!<, vt·ry :'mall.
10 Secretiveness, vt·ry small.
ADAPTATION. l\Ian, is surrounded by sickness, sor·
row, pain, and death; dangerous animals exist around
him, to be clestroye<.l; e\·il, and error, to be exterminated;
and if man is carnivorous to any extent, this part of his
nature demands the life of animals to be tal<en, to supply
him with food. This faculty, brings man into harmony
with this condition of things. It is an essential element
of force, efficiency and power, both of a melltal and phys·
ical character. It gives pen<Jity to alJ law, and without
it, no goyernrnent could exist, or justice be maintained
among men. Its first, <.listiuctive object, is self preser·
vation, and leads to the extermination of all that endan-
gers our own existence. It imparts weight to indigna-
tion, and gives an uullinching power to carry forward the
discharge of duty, eren though it mny gi,·c temporary
pain to ourselves or others. It enaules one to endure
pain with fortitude, and when necessary, (as in surgery)
to inflict it upon others. Carni\·orous animals, have
claws to hold their prey, sh:trp teeth to tear, and incisors
to cut flesh, combiued with an appetite for flesh and
blood ; a digestive apparatus to dissoh·e it; and a large
de\·elopmeut of the organ of destructircncss to impart
the impulse to de~troy animals, by which to supply
themselves with food, together with large Secret. to ena-
ble them to surprise their prey. On the other hand, we
~iscover the perfect beauty and order of nature, in the
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 71
constitution of such animals as feed on grnss and herbs.
They have blunt teeth to 'crop the flowery food;' square
grinding teeth, to masticate, and digesti' e organs suited
to their natural aliment, and their di~position corresponds
with their condition. They neither require destructi\·e·
ness to I< ill t!tcir food, or sec~retiveness to surprise it, as it
never flees at their approac~h. IIPnce they are narrow
tbrough the brain in the region of Destruct. and Secret.,
and manifest those faculties in a subordinate degree.
Man, is an animal, so far as self-preservation and his
physical wants, anrl animal propens1ties are concerned.
'fhe impulse to destroy, and cause pain, is necessary in
man, to complete his character, and bring him into hnr·
mony with the cir<;umstancC's of sublunary things. The
abu~c onlt, of tilts faculty b to be feared. 'lThou sh:tlt
not kill," (murder) implies the existence of the faculty,
and its liability to abusP Combined, with strong anima)
propensities generally, wil11 fcchle moral and inteiJectual
powers, it leads to cruelty, rc•vcngc and murder.
The North American Indtnns, have the orgnn large,
with moderate Bene,·.; henr.n, the1r cruelty and re\'enge,
with abiltty to nnd11re pain ancl dcJth without a .murmur
or a sigh. Tartly rti•U Gihhs, pirate~; Bellingham,
Le Blanc nncl Peter Rohinsott, murdPrers; King Robert
Bruce, Blnck Jla.,, k and Btg Thundet·, warriors; Luther,
Knox, Leggett, and many other writers, orntors, war~
rior:; and lll\lrdercrs, that might be uarned, had the organ
la.rcre. Combined with li\ruc mor<ll and Jrltcllectual or-
~ 0
gans, it giv~!'i moral and intl'llcctn:tl enP-rgy, nnd ~;e~,·erc
censure upou those \\'ho riolatc moral law. To the ora-
tor, it crives cdrrc, stcrnne;:,s, and the power of satire; to
0 ~
the lawyer, se\'erity towani his oppon(>nt; to the surgeon,
ucr\'e; to the warrior, efficiency. and co,lne~s in view of
pain and slaughter, and in erery hwc of life, it senes to
give weight to character and effort.
VeRY L .\Rne. A person hnving Destruct. very lar~r.,
is severe, forcible and indignant when highly excited,
and with large Firm., and a bilious temperamP.nt, will be
able to witness surgical opcr:-ttions, or a sanguine Lattle
fi\:!ld; and with average Caution, and large Combat.,
72 DESTRUCTIVENESS.
would not as a soldier, wince even at the cannon's mouth.
Combined with an active temperament, large Combat.,
Appro. and Self Esteem, wi!J be quick, and high tem-
pered, and require to watch much, against the passion of
anger. With small Combat., and large Firm. and Cau-
tion, will be uslow to wrath, but sure when up."
LARGE, has great sternness and force of character,
when excited, and deep toned indignation toward objects of
displeasure. Has much warmth and vehemence of tem-
per, and will often utter bitter remarks :tgainst enemies,
and religious, or political error. With Jarg~ Consci.,
Firm., and Combat., will censure injustice, and vice,
even in high places (like Luther, Knox and others.)
With strong social organs, and moderate Secret., will
love friends ardently, yet be liable to wound their feel-
ings, and having weight and force of character, \\'Ill pos-
sess the elements of government. \Vith large Combat.,
Firm. and Self Esteem, ami a good inte!Ject, will be bold,
energetic, vindicti,·e, dignified, and persevering, against
every opposition; drire forward and upward to distinc-
tion; carry out great enterprises, and be able to do much
good in the world, being qualified by nature for a leader
in society. "With the above combination, and a feeble
moral development, will be cruel and dangerous when
excited. If the head be large, and all other organs large,
this shonld be large also, to complete the character.
Destruct., when kept under the control of a good intellect
and stroug moral sentiments, is an agent of good, and its
manifestations useful and virtuous.
FuLL, is forcible, yet will not cause unnecessary pain, 7
or be very severe when excited; is able to command res-·
pect, and overcome the common difficulties of life
\Vhen it is necessary to cause pain, or to take the life
of animals, will do it at a blow, c.ausing as little pain as
possible, and dislikes to see animals tortured.
AvERAGE, docs not willingly give pain to the feelings
of others, or to animals, will require great excitement to
become severe in word or deed, and tlten, it will be only
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 73
momentary-will rarely feel disposed to revenge; and
lack the power to be sufficiently severe, to command re-
spect from others. With only average Combat., Firm
and Self-Esteem, will be too easy with animals and men,
to govern the one, or claim and maintain personal rights
with the other, and be Iikely to be imposed upon by the
selfish and overbearing. With hrge Caution, Secret.,
Consci., Benev. and Adhes. added, will seldom show
anger, and be inoffensive, amiable and peaceable, and
too kind and unassuming to command respect, or exert
much influence in common society.
MoDERATE, will give back when closely pressed by
adversity or opposition, and lack efficiency to grapple
with "the ills that flesh is heir to;, cannot carry out a
well formed purpose, if the necessity to cause pain lies
in the way; as a debater cannot exercise severity, even
against error; as a clergyman will rarely preach the ter-
rors of the law; as a soldier would sicken at the sight of
blood, and would never make a good butcher; as a juror
would lean toward mercy and commutation of punish-
ment.
SMALL, j~ too sensitive in view of pain, and has a de-
sire to relieve it, but i~ too deficient in this faculty to car-
ry out such good wishes; seldom, if ever, feels resent-
ment or indignation; is too easily controlled hy others,
and so mild iu reproof, that the word lacks force and
edge ; seldom threatens others, and is not able to rise
above the opposition of mankind.
VERY S.:\tALL, is the reverse of efficient and executive,
in any thing; with large Combat., may threaten but will
never execute. If mankind waited for such persons to
butcher for them, they would cease to use animal food.
7
'/4 ALil\:lE NTIVENESS.
8. ALIMENTIVENESS.
Desi1·e for food and aliment in general.
Located, just forward of the top of the ear.
ADAPTATION. The proper manifestation of this faculty,
is as a porter at the door, to say how much, and what
kind of nourishment, the body requires. Its abuses, are
gluttony, drunkenness, and the use of narcotics and ex-
hilerants, such as opium, tea, tobacco, spirituous li-
quors, &c. Children, usually have this organ large,
while the physical system is obtaining its growth and
strength. Indulgent mothers, too often produce a mor-
bid activity of this organ in their children, by feeding
them with rich dainties, not only to manifest their fond-
ness, but to keep them quiet, by which course restless-
ness is induced, when another application is made to the
same source, to allay it. Indeed, rich food, confection-
ary, fruit, nuts, &c., are often promised the child, as a
reward of obedience and close study. This is murder-
ing the constitution by piecemeal, and enlarging this or-
gan, to immoderate size, and morbid activity; and no
wonder that children thus trained, are sickly, and at ma-
turity, rush to the bottle for stimulus. Let temperance,
begin in the nursery in regard to diet, and at mature life,
there will be less ill health and intemperauce, with their
attendant train of evils. Mother! this work of reforma-
tion is thine! ''Health is the poor man's blessing ; the
rich man's bliss." Who ever knew a halfstarved beggar,
to have dyspcpsy, or the gout 1 'Vho ever knew strict
temperance, and industry, to entertain such guests 1
When all the laws of nature are reversed, and truth be-
comes falsehood; then, and not t-ill then, can this be the
case.
VERY LARGE. One in whom this organ is very large,
will think much of the delicacies of the culinary depart-
ment, and often count upon a rich dinner-will be care-
ful to provide bountifulJy for the table, and never die in
debt to the stoma0h. Will need to guard well against
habits of intemperance, in all its forms.
ACQUISITIVENESS. 75
LARGE, will prize a good cook, or be capable of becom-
ing one; will know how to season a dish, so as to com-
mend it to the appetite; will use many condiments; and
with large Philo., coax children by offering cakes, can-
dies, &c.; seldom forgets the dinner hour, or is absent
from duty on that occasion.
Fur.r., will rcli~h food and drink, very well; but have
less anxiety on the subject than one with the organ large;
will take prudent care in respect to "what we shall eat,
and what we shall drink."
AvERAGE, can get along with, or without luxuries;
will regard quality more than quantity; is not dainty, or
\'Cry particular respecting food and drink.
MonERATE, is indifferent as to variety, or luxuries;
C4ls to li,·e, rather than lives to eat.
SMALT. OR VERY SMALL, prefers plainness and simplic-
ity, in clrink and diet; and will not be likely to become
intemperate, or make a popular cook.
9. ACQUISITIVENESS.
Desirr. to pos:>rss, tlu idea of oumcrslzi'p, a propensity to
acquin:, to ltave, to keel)·
Locntcd between Constructiveness and Secreti\·eness,
and above Alimentiveness; about an inch and a half up-
ward, and forward, of the top of the ear,-on the naked
skull it is found at the anterior, inferior angle, of the
parietal bone. When large it gives great width to the
head, in that region.
An.\PTATION. All our ideas or property, and personal
ownership, arise from this faculty. It is strongly marked
in the Ancrlo-American head, a11d small in the American
,.,
Indian: the one is too eager, and the other too careless,
to acquire property. The former, requires more than is
neces~ary for happiness; the latter lives from b:1pd to
76 ACQUISITIVENESS.
month, lays up nothing for the future, and idles away
life. Without this faculty, man would never emerge
from the savage state, but, like animals, seek the daily
suppJy of his wants, regardless of the future. The divis-
ion oflabor, ari3es from trade, and the desire to acquire.
This inspires a spirit of improvement in the arts and sci-
ences, which distinguish civilized society. It is useful,
in gathering the bounties of a munificent Providence;
creating wealth by labor, and providing in youth, and
health, for sickness, and age. The inJUnction, "be dili-
gent in business," recognizes this faculty, and gives coun-
tenance to its exercise; but the command, "Thou shalt
not steal," as strongly forbids its abuse. Covetousness,
also, is an abuse of this faculty, and the tenth command-
ment thunders against that exercise of it. This organ is
too large, and too active, in the people of the United
States. There is a morbid anxiety, an unnatural haste,
to be rich. Wealth is made the standard of respectabiJi-
ty, and property, in the eye of thousands, covers a multi-
tude ofsins. There is not property enough in the world,
to make all mankind weaJthy; hence great wealth must
be possessed by a few at the expense of others. In \•iew
of this, can we love our neighbor as oursehes, and de-
sire to be very rich 1 Agur's petition exhibits the proper
feeling: "Gi-re me neither poverty, nor riches," &c.
The facully under consideration, is the foundation of
the enterprises of mankind, and enters largely, into all
the business of life. It inspires goYernments to e:xtecd their
terdtory, by discovery, and by conquest; while individual
enterprise, builds cities, establishes commerce, culti-
\'ates trade, and fosters the manufacturing and agricultu-
ral interests. The desire for gain, goads forward the
genius of mechanics, to invent valuable machinery; it
touches the poet's pen, as with a flame of fire ; and fame
is sought by the orator, and statesman, that wealth (as
well as power) may follow in its train. The iron hand
of poverty, or more properly the desire for gain, has been
the entering wedge, to almost every valuable improvement
in the arts, which bless mankind. Good may result to
the great whole, by the individual abuse of Acquisitive-
ness, "but woe unto him, by whom the" abuse "cometh."
ACQUISITIVENESS. 77
Arnold, for the sake ofBritish gold, sold his country; and
Judas for sih·er, sold his Lord. It was the abuse of Ac-
quisiti\'Cness, which produced the American Revolution.
An uuju:;t extortion of taxes from the colonies, cut them
loose from Brittsh dominion forever. Interest often, and
almost a/mays takes preccrlence of honest justice, in inter-
national lcgi!'lation. Treaties are violated when interest
demands it, and justice is pushed aside. An inordinate
Jove of money, aims the deadly steel in the hands of the
highwayman and pirate, and is the cause of treachery,
forg£ry, fraud and falsehood These abu"es arise from
Acquisitiveness, very large, with a feeble development of
the moral organs, aud bad training. A good develop-
ment of this organ, is nece..sary, to suit man to his con-
dition, and when properly balanced by the moral senti-
ments and intellect, combined with proper education,
its manifestations arc virtuous, producing industry and
economy.
VERY L.\.RGE. One in whom this organ is very large,
sets a high value upon any thing which can be called
property; is eager to acquire, to Jay up, to have and to
save; has a strong thirst for riches; likes to call things
mine; is reluctant to part with money, or property; is of-
ten close and penurious; cannot endure profligacy, or
waste; docs business for its profit, and i::; arduous and per-
severing to make money. W1th \'er~ large moral organs,
and Appro. and Self-Esteem full; w11l be honest, as well
as eager in the acquisition of property; but if the moral
organs be only avn·agr, combined with large Destruct.,
Combat. and Self-Esteem, the person will be hard faced
in deal; always want the best of a bargain, and get it if
possible; pay a small price for much service; drive a team
beyond its strength; make ungenerous exactions of la-
borers; rise early and toil late, and make others do the
same, and with large Caution and Secret. added, will be
on the alert for thie,·es, hence use many precautions
and lockg; will often be su,picious that others wish to
cheat in trade, and will watch them closely; and with
only small Consci , Self-Esteem and Appro., will lje and
cheat outright, and be strongly tempted to steal.
7•
78 ACQUISITIVENESS.
,( LARGE, manifestfl much anxiety to acquire, to have and
possess; feels a loss keenly and in business deals closely.
If the temperament be active, and the propelling pow-
ers strong, the person will be industrious and active in
business, and keep a close eye upon the ways and means
to acquire. With large Consci., will be honest, yet eager
for gain ; with very large Bcnev., large Hope, and moder-
ate Caution added, will be liberal in distribution-to friends
if Adhes. be large-to children, if Philo. be large, and
with a good intellect, and large Appro., to g.reat public
enterprises, to the endowment of schools, and the like;
and with large Ven., to objects of a christian character.
All those who have large Acquis., do not regard money.,
and make it an idol. The kind of property which one
desires, is determined by the other facu Ities. Neither do
all keep money or property, who have the organ large;
distribution being governed by the other feelings. Hence,
the scholar, (or one in whom the intellect rules,) acquires
books ;-one with large Ven. and Marvel., collects the
antiquarian cabinet-with large Color, ldcaJjty, Form
and Order, seeks to acquire paintings, Bowers, statuary,
&c.; with Appro. large, desires dress, ornamental furni-
ture .and showy equipage. Large Philo., will task Ac-
quis. for the benefit of children; large Aliment., to pro-
cure the indulgence of the table, or the cup; large Amat.
to gratify that de~ire. With very large Appro. and Self-
Esteem, will sacrifice money for office, station, gn~at
name and dignity. If Caution be large, the person will
be prudrnt and saving; Hope moderate added, will fear
coming to want, and c1ing still closer to what is acquired;
will rarely run in debt, or fail in business ; will never let
go a sure and steady profit, for uncertain speculations,
and wiJl often, through fear of Joss, let good opportunities
for ma.k1ncr money, pass unimproved. If Caution be on-
ly average~ and Hope and Appro. Jarge, will wish to do a
large, and splendid business, to ma~e money on a l.arge
scale, and hence will run headlong mto rash speculataons,
and be too careless of the small change, the ''little leak
that sinks the great ship."
ACQUISITI\'ENESS. 79
Fur.L. Acquisiti~·eness full, imparts to its possessor
frugality, economy, and a proper love of possession. But
if Consci. be deficient, will often discover the "tricks of
trade," over-reach in bargain~, disregard the Golden, and
go by the Silver rule, i. <·. get money honestly if conve-
nient, ifnot, get it. If Beuev. be moderate or small, will
ne\ cr be liberal to objects of charity, unless it be for the
purpose of making a show. If the animal propensities be
strong, will acquire money, and spend it for t!tcir gratifi-
cation. If the moral organs be well developed, combined
with a good intellect, and large Appro. and Self-E~teem,
will de...pise dishonorable means in acquiring properly,
will be prudent and saving in business transactions, yet
manifest a generous liberality. With large Ideal. and
Com;truct., will display a regard both to taste and dura-
bility, in building", furniture, and in the purchase of
property.
AvERAGE, looks upon money rather as a means than
as an end: is satil';fied with the comforts and conveniences
of life; an'd has but liLtle ambition to be rich; but if Ap-
pro. and Self-Esteem be large, will crave wealth for the
standing, consequence and display it will afford, and spend
money freely upon any thing which will feed those feel-
iugs. 'Vith Hope larg<', and Caution moderate, will buy
what is wanted to-day, regardless of to-morrow; make
large promises, and be likely to get into difliculty in bu-
siness; lets 1ittle sums slip through the fingers; can make
money better than keep it; and with the social organs
and Benev. large, will be free and generous to friends.
'Vith Bene\·. small, and the social feelings weak, wiU be
selfish, and ungenerous, and although not eager to
acquire, yet will be cold and close-fisted.
.1\lonERATE, lo\·es money only for the comforts which
it buys; is not ,·ery· eacrer to acquire, nnd is rather free
- 0
and liberal in expenditures; does not make wealth a test
of respectability; governs expen~es by pre:sent possessions,
ratl1er than by a lO\'e of cnsh; finds it difficult to keep;
is rather too free; buys what the other faculties demand,
without much regard to price, and is hardly saving enough
80 SECRETIVENESS.
to get along we1l in the world. With only average rea·
soning organs, will get cheated in trade.
SMALL, will not be likely to accumulate a fortune, or
save one which may have been transmitted, and is too
indifferent to property, to lay up the necessaries of life;
with moderate Combat. a~d Caution, will not undergo ·
the toil, necessary to accumulate, but live as it were from
hand to mouth, and if Hope be large, will let to·morrow
take care of itself.
VERY SMALL, is reckless in respect to property and
business matters; pays no regard to price; feels in the
pocket for money rather than to labor for it, and when it
is empty, runs in debt; is always in debt, and generally
out of cash.
10. SECRETIVENESS.
Disposition to conceal and suppress thoughts, power of
mental rese1·vation.
This organ is situated next above Destructiveness, and
back of Acquisitiveness.
ADAPT.o\TTON. We have thoughts, almost constantly
rushing into the mind, the expression of which would not
be judicious. The office of Secretiveness, is, to conceal
those thoughts which present themselves involuntarily,
until a proper time and place for ~heir utterance. Thus
it will be seen, that this organ is given to man for a wise
purpose, and is necessary to impart prudence in language
and action. But there are so many in community who
abuse this faculty, that it is as necessary now, as it was
in olden time, for the conscientious individual, to say,
as did the sweet singer oflsrael, ''Draw me not away with
the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak
peace to their neighbors, but miscltiif is in their hearts."
If there was no faculty in the mind the abuses of which,
are falsehood, deception, and perjury, there would have
been no necessity for the command, "Thou shalt not
SECRETIVENESS. 81
bear false witness against thy neighbor." The Bible,
therefore, recognizes this faculty, and speaks against its
abu~e. A great endowment of Secretiveness, enables its
possessor to throw a veil over all his actions; "to shape
his face for all occasions;'' and thus render it utterly
impos::.ible, for the most skillful Physiognomist, to
ascertain his character, by observing the features, and
expression of his face. "When Napoleon thought him-
self closely obserred, he hacl the power of discharging
from his countenance all expression, save that of an in-
definite smile, and presenting to the curious investigator,
the fixed eyes, and rigid features, of a marble bust." 'Ve
notice in some persous a kind of openness and frankness
ofexpre~sion and manner, which at once leads us to con-
ceive their real feelings, and almost read their thoughts,
before they are uttered. Their plans, either for business
or pleasure, are all known to their acquaintances and
friends, ami they despise those, who, in every thing they
do or say, practice cunning and finesse. This arises
from a too small derelopment of Secretiveness. There
are others, of an opposite character, who do not transact
their common business even,without enjoining upon those
with whom they may be dcalmg, the most profound
secrecy. They always make private bargains, and if they
wish to speak with an individual on a matter of no mo-
ment, when others are near, they will address them in a
low tone of voice, or take them aside. Every thing they
do has an au of myslery about it; and when interrogated
on any subject, they are very careful, not to gire any an-
swers which can be brought to rnilitate agaim;t them-
seh·es. 'Vashington had this organ huge, and during
the revolutionary war, he made use of many stratagems
to mislead and decei\·e his opponents, and in many in-
stance· concealed from the view of the enemy, his real
~trenath ; thus saviucr his armv from inuncdiate destruc-
tion. c This course ,;as neces~ary, and justifiable in war.
'Vashincrton had larcre Conticientiousne ·s, and in private,
~ ~
as well as inn public capacity, he was honest and <:onfid-
ing, and at the same time prudent in the expression of
his thoughts: qualitic~, always to be desired. Secretive-
82 SECRETIVENESS.
ness is manifested in a high degree by some of the lower
animals, such as the fox, the raccoon, the cat, &c. It
produces in them, that slyness, cunning, and instinctive
sagacity, for which they are so noted. Children, some-
. times ha,'e this organ very largt, and it renders them
trickish, cunning, sly, and disposed to practice deception.
These traits of character, '"·hich tl1ey manifest at an early
period, are often mistaken by parents, for shrewdness
of intellect, when they are merely the effect of the animal
feeling of Secretiveness. Parents, therefore, should re-
member that such manifestations in a child, are not in-
dicative of strong powers of mind; for idiotic persons,
sometimes exhibtt them in an extraordinary degree.
This organ was very large in Big Thunder, G. M. Gott..
fried, a murderess of great cunning and sagacity, and
small in the Ceylonese boy.
VERY LARGE. One having Secretiveness very large,
will be cunning, crafty and sly; keep aJJ plans and busi-
ness operations, from the view of others; make private
bargains, and conceal all matters relating to self, from
the scrutiny of the world; with the moral organs large,
will not deceive others to their iujmy, or vary from the
direct line of truth; but with those organs ·moderate, and
Acquis. large, will be well versed in all the 'tricks of
trade,' and take great pleasurt in deceiving.
LARGE, has the ability to conceal plans; does not
speak what enters the mind, without fir~t letting the in-
tellect judge of its propriety, or impropriety; is non-
committal, and employs much art, in accomplishing plans
which need concealment; ,.,·ith morlerate Consci., will
tell a falsehood when the truth would answer the purpose
just as well; with large Acquis. added, will take unclcr-
ltanded means to acquire property; with lurge Appro.
and Self-Est~em added, will think much of the good
opinion of mankind; seek popularity; esteem self highly;
be much offended when called d1shonest, and after having
accumulated a fortune by lying, trickery, and false pre..
tences1 will suffer no remorse,
CAUTIOUSNESS. 85
9. Timid Lady. 10 Reckless Boy. 11. Mr.
l I <.:aullou, Vt.ry larg-:. U <.:aulwn, Vt.ry .small.
'"fhis faculty is useful, inasmuch as it leads to circum-
spection, and keeps many from taking 1he first step to-
ward::; rice, and thus pre\ <mls thent from plungiug into the
\'ortcx of crime, aud bringing upon them~cl\'cs mbery
and woe. It acts as a check upon the manifestHtion of
the ot l1cr fncultie", nnd lead" to prudence of conduct in
all the various walks of Jifc. \ Vhen Approbnti,·ene5s
tempts its possessor to ::opend his time and money for the
purpose of makiug a di.'lplay, or of gaining tile npplause
of the gaping crowd, Caution says, that npplau~c and lame
arc nothing hut vnnity; be careful how you ~pend your
time and money for tint which will not be of any value,
when old age or sick ne~s :-hall have taken the pl::lce of
youth and health. It checks the ranngs of Coutbati\ e-
ncs~, and adds prutlcnce to courage. It is sometimes too
Non:. Cut No. 0, the Timid Indy, shows grcat hcight and
width at the region of Caution, organ No. ] 1, with firm. and
Consci . .1\o'H 14 anti JG, also large. \Vc find many female~,
c~rll'r.ially children, with this U<'\('lopmcnt. Cut No 10, repre-
t;euts the head (lfa bo) only seven ~cars of age, whose hr.ad we
cxarnitJt•cl at \Va,;hmgton city in l ~·H. He had frcqUl'ntly pass-
ed Ullt uf tftc dormant WiiiUO\\ s of a thrr.e story Jtou~P. and chased
t he do\'l's to the Yery nrgc of the roof, witl.tou~ the slightest
.-ign~ of fi•ar: to Ptuploy the language of Ius fatlwr,"bc was
ulways engaged in :;omc dangerous cntnrprisc; he llC\'t!r Rct>med
to h:n <' tl11: sl·ntinwnt of fi·ar, or to (;Olllprchcnd C\·t·n the mtcm-
inu of the term." Cut .!'lo. 1 I, is rcmarl\a!Jio for very large
Consci, No );), and Hry l'tllall Firm, No.l4 It n•prr.sents the
hcurl of a 1-'rhoolma!':tcr 01' Conn, who was noted for tho most
scrupulous honesty, and the utmost indecision.
8
84
Genus II.
CAUTIOUSNESS.
HUMAN, MoRAL AND RELIGIOUS
SE.!'lTIMENTS.
These are of a higher, more ennobling and refined
character than the propensities, and draw a Jine, which
the lower animals can never pass. In proportion as
these faculties predominate over the propensities, the
soul soars in the empire of morality, virtue and refine-
ment; but if these be deficient and the propensities strong,
there will be more of the mere animal, than ltuman qual-
ities. The organs of these sentiments are situated at
the superior portion of the head, and when they are large
it is high and broad ; when small, the upper portion of
the bead is low and narrow.
Species I. SELFISH SENTIMENTS.
These faculties are superior to the selfish propensities,
although they make man selfish, and seek to promote his
individual advancement. "Vheu the religious aml rea-
soning faculties are equally large with these, they combine
to elevate and perfect the character. 'They are located
together at the back part of the upper portion of the
head and when large give height and fulness to that
reg10n.
11 . CAUTIOUSNESS.
Sentiment offear, ci1·cumsp ection, apprehension ofdanger.
This organ is located next above Secretiveness, and
backward from Sublimity, near the middle of each parie-
tal bone.
An.~PTATION. The sentiment of fear has long been
considered by metnphysicians, an innate, and distinct
faculty in the human mind. Dr. GalJ found that cau-
tion and fear resulted from a large development of brain
in the region of the head now under consideration, and
thus accounted for what was unaccountable to all who
bad preceded him in reasoning upon the different powers
of the mind. See cuts, Nos. 9 and 10.
SE'CRETIVENESS. 83
FuLL, will be careful in the expression of thoughts
and plans; can conceal motives; may use art for the pur-
po:;e of effecting something useful and neces:-;ary: but not
With the intention of injuring any one; with large Cau-
tion will often wear a cheerful countenance when the
mind is troubled, and with a large development of the
moral organs, will not be deceitful or triclosb.
AvERAGE, will not manifest much cunning or tact, on
ordinary occasions; but. if trau~acting business \\- hich
requires secrecy, \viii show considerable adroitness; is
generally frank in the expression of feelings and plans,
and with very large Caution, will be more guarded in
action, than in the expression of thoughts.
MoDERATE, is candid, and always ready to give ad-
vice; finds difficulty in concc:-~ling feelings and plans;
with large Hope, Comoat., and Lang., and average Cau-
tion, will always be telling of schemes, and l1ave a blunt
mode of expression.
s~uLt., is not inclined to pracl ice cunning or art, to
accomplish ends; speaks in a blunt manner and hy so
doin,g:, often gi\·es offence;'' ith large Combat., Destruct.
and Self-Est!:!em, will be harsh and rough, in language
and manner, towards an opponent in debate, and in gen-
eral deportment.
VERY SuALL, has no power to conceal feelings; will
tell of plans and ·business operations, when they ought to
be kept secret; is not discreet in the expression of
thoughts, and lacks that prudence of language necessary
to general success in the common affairs of hfe.-J
CAUTIOUSNESS. 87
only 522 females. Among the goats, the leader is always
a female, ancl their safety, it will be recollected, arises
from a high degree of circumspection.,,..
!
VEr:tY LARGE, will be doubtful, and apprehensive of
danger, even where none exists; deliberate long before
coming to a decision on any subject, and fail to enjoy
the pr~sent moment for fear of future ill; with small Hope,
~t> and a nervous temperament, will be subject to melan-
choly; with moderate Combat. and Destruct. added, will
not attempt great things, nor set a high mark at which to
aim; but with large Firm., Combat., Destruct. and Hope,
and large reasoning organs, will succeed well, and be
distinguished for circumspection, prudence, foresight,
and correct judgment.
LAnGE, will always be on the lookout for danger, and
be very careful in action, and hesitate long before giving
an opinion; with Firm. large, wiJI be stable in opinions,
when Caution is satisfied that all i::; right, with large
Combat. and Destruct. added, wiJI manifest prudence of
character, united with courage, perseverance, and stabil-
ity; but with moderate Combat. and Destruct., will be
irresolute and timid. With Appro. and Veo. very large,
and Combat. moderate, even if the intellectual organs are
large, and the mind well cultivated, will be exceedingly
bashful, take a middle walk in life, and lack that force
and energy necessary to overcome those difficulties and
obstacles which always obstruct the path of man.
FuLL, has a good share of caution, and prudence, and
as a general thing, looks out for, and guards against dan-
ger, and makes provision for the future; with very large
Combat. and Destrur.t., will sometimes appear rash, and
careless, and with large Hope and Acquis. added, be like-
ly to speculate, and run risks in business; with Acquis.,
Hope, and Combat. moderate, will seek some employ-
ment, which will yield a sure,and steady profit, and will
not venture much in speculation.
tComhp's system of Phrenology, Boston Ed., p. 242.
86 cAtJT10USNESS.
large, and produces an overweening anxiety aootit the
future, anJ unfoun<led apprehensious of danger.
This feeling is usually very active in children, which is
the reason why parents are apt to appeal to it ia family
government. This mode of government, however, is
erroneous, because it appeals to the animal, asid uot the
intellectual nature of the child. Parents and teachers
should remember, that child• en hafe rea~oniug pov.·ers,
an<l should be appealed to through them when they have
done wrong, rather than by addres!:iing their Cautioos-
ness. A II stories aLout witches, ghost~, &c., nppeaJ di-
rectly to this sentiment, and excite the fears of children
and irnplant in their minds a kind of timid1ty, which
length of years, or the jtulgn1ent of age caunot entirely
eradicate. Moreorer, the excitement of this organ to an
undne degree of activity, leads to insanity. "Dr. Gall
mentions, that, at Vienna, he attended two falhers of
families in easy circumstances, who ne\·ert hclcs~, were
tormented night nn<.l day with the apprehension that the;r
wives and children \\'ere exposed to die or lnwgcr. The
most earnest assurances of their friend~, were illsllfficient
to make them comprehend that this fear was altogether
chimerical. After their recovery, they could not bear to
hear their condition mf'ntioned, through terror of a re-
lapse. Before their malndy, they were known to ue men
of gloomy dispositions." Cautiousne~s is u-;ually larger
in women than in men, '' l11ch agrees with the differ£'11ce
existing between the sexes in regard to fear, and 11bility
to shun danger. ".~\mong the lower anirnnls, it i~ aen-
crally larger in females than in males; and Dr Gall ~en­
tions some curious f<tcts, il lustrati,,e of the greater mani-
festation orthe faculty by the former thau by the latter.
lie happened to kill. says he, ns many as twenty SfJuirrels,
without finding a smgle female among them; alth()ugh it
was not the season in which they \\ere coufihf!d by
the care of their young. During one winter 500 bears
were killed in the two provinces of Virgi11 ia, among
which only two females were d1scovered. An a'~count of
the wolve:; destroyed 1n France, from 1st Jnn. 1816 to Ist
Jan. 1817, was published officially by Count Gert~tdin,
Captain of the Royal Chase, audit showed 1894 males and
88 APPROBATIVENESS.
AVERAGE~ has some care for the future but does not,
at all times manifest sufficient caution to guard against
accideuts ; with large organs of the propensities, and
large Hope, will readily embark on new schemes, and
enterprises, and pursue them with zeal and efficiency.
MonF.RATE, has not much prudence of character; Jacks
that degree of Caution necessary to guard successfully
against danger; is apt to be hasty and impetuous, and
with a good intellect, will take means to escape impf>nd-
ing iiJs, by the strength of reasonl but will not be fear-
ful or timid.
SMALL, is heedless; pays little regard to the futnre ;
runs into danger when there is no need of it; meets with
many accidents, and ''hair breadth escapes;" with large
Hope, will be hilbitually cheerful; with moderate Con-
sci. and large Acqni.,., will always be engaging in rash,
and injudicious speculationsl and be very likely to fail in
business.
VERY SMALL, is exceedingly rash, and impetuous,
desc itute of fear, and taltes but little care for the future.
12. APPROBATIVENESS.
Sense of clwractcr, love ofpraise, desire of approval.
Located on each side of Self-Esteem, and back of
Conscientiousness.
ADAPTATION. Man's fondness for society, seems to
render it proper that he should regard his standing 'loitll,
and the opinions entertained of him by his associates.
This lo\-·e of approval is an innate sentiment in man, and
is one of his strongest incentives to enterprise, and when
legitimate!y exercised, promotes virtue and good order.
It is recognized in the scriptures in many places, but
especially in the parable of the servants who recei\-·ed the
talents, to whom it was said,"well done, good find faithful
a~rvants,, &c. The lave of approbation,of praise, sense
.APPRODATIVENESS. 89
of character, desire to please and be approved, which we
know exists in the human mind, impIics a distinction in
action as regards the public will. This faculty, is always
exercised in reference to the standard of public opinion in
that soc1ety in which one resides. It does not decide what
actions are right and proper, but what are praiseworthy or-
d isgraccful, in the nation, neighuorhood or society, ofwhich
a peniOn forms a part. In every nation and community,
thct e is some standard, some criterion of respectability,
style or fashwn. Among the InJians, the best hunter, the
fleetest runner and most cruel warnor, ate most res!lected.
\Vith the low and vulgar of civilized nations, the strong-
est man, the greatest wrestler, fighter, or he who can car-
ry the most ardent spirit at once, &c., is most popular.
Among others, the greatest wealth, the richest furniturel
or the finest attire; and with others, learning, oratory,
morality or refinement, gire the marks of character and
d istinct10n. Thus tlte fasltion, is what Approbativeness
feed~ upon, and when the fashion is 1·igltt and the stand-
arc! of popularity the true one, its manifestations are pro-
ductive of good. The influence of this faculty is very
important, in restraining persons from acts of immorality,
'' hich would bring reproach; and often speaks a language
as mandatory in its character as that of' Conscientiousness,
"hich tells ns to do right; while A pprobativeness, warns
us to sltwt disgrace. Those who boldly assert that they
cnre nothing for public opinion, and tlisrcgarJ what peo-
ple may say or think of them, are generally far advanced
ir1 vice, or to say the least, are destitute of one very great
safeguard to their morals. How many young men are
cormct in their habits while surronnded by a circle of ac-
quaintances, being restrained by the love of reputation;
who recklessly plunge into debauchery and crime as soon
as they leave their native place, an<.l get beyond the intJu-
ence of those whose good opinion they regard ! The
lo'>e of approbation, is among the most absorbing of the
human sentiments. The main reason why fame is but a
bubble, is, that this faculty is immoderately indulged,
untempered by the moral sentiments, and an enlightened
iutellect. An "honest fame" is laudable, and should be
sought hy all. This is one of the most prolific sources
s•
..
oo APPROBATIVENESS.
of influence with the human race, e~pecially the young.
Appeal to thi!'\, aud every latent energy is called into ac-
tivity. How important the11, that we study the nature of
this facuJty, nnd pi ace high and pure motives for the
aspiration of the rising generation, that so strong an im-
petus may be properly exercised.
VERY LARGE. One haring Appro. very large, nlues
clnracter highly; is keenly sensitive to the slighrest
bre:llh of slander; often feels ashamed when it is unne-
cessary; cnnnot bear rrproach or ridicule; is mortified
at small mistakes, or accidents in company; often asks
what people will think or say of this, or th!lt act; and
will sacrifice personal en~e, to please others. When com-
bined with large Caution and Ven., and only arerage
Self-Esteem aud Combat., will be Yery diffident and
bashful in society, especially among strangers; and will
fear to act Jest some reproach shall foJiow; be tormented
with the fear of gi\'ing offence, of losing reputation, or of
being Jaugheu <ll by othP.rs, and cannot be indepcudent.
.Meu, havi11g this 0rgan ,·ery large, with Combat. and
Self-Esteem also very large, will :seek office with avidity,
and ,claim it as a matter of right, and be proud, Yain and
overt>earing in office. With Self-Esteem, Combat., Con-
sci. apd Firm. only average, \\·ill be controlled by the
popular wiJJ, right or wroug, and follow the fashion, re-
gardless of any consequence, except personal popularity.
L.~RGE. One in whom this organ is large, thinks \·ery
highly of character and honor; is fond of ndmiration and
approval; cannot bear censure without pain ; is fond of
making a good appearance, and a favorable impression ;
is ambitious to be noticed aud appreciated; cannot en-
dure to be ~lighted, or neglected, and with Jarge De-
struct. and Comba1., will contend sharply for reputation,
and feel much bilterness towards the slanderer. 'Vith
large reasoning orgc1.ns, will ue ambitious to excel in in-
tellectual pursuits, and to rise to eminence among man-
kind, and with large Secret. added, wil1 never acknowl-
edge faults, and when they are proved, will plead extenu-
ating circumstances. With large Acquis., will have a
APPROBATIVENESS. 91
strong dcfoiire for wealth, not only for its own sake, but
01bo for the distinction it affords; will boast of property,
and place it in a cou~picuous light to mt1ke a show in
the \\'orld, and perhaps uoa~t Qf rich acquaintances and
rclatirr:s. If the ~oc1al org~ns be large, with large Lang.,
Jcleal., and moderate Self-l:..stecm; will be extremely po-
Jitc and affable, and with lnrge Secret. added, will have a
winning popnlnr dPportmeut, and the faculty to say aud do
thing!', so as to please. 'V1th Consci. moderate and
~ecret. rery large, will often be guilty of gro~s immoral-
ities, }f'l keep a fair exterior, and perh<~ps for years, sus-
tain a good reputation, and with large Ven. <telded, \\ill
make pretensions to religion, and for the sake of popu-
larity act thP. outward devotee to perfection, until truth,
re\eals the arrant hypocrite, and <.li:-plays the Phari::;ec in
all hL deformity. Such a combination •tmakes clean
the out side of the cup and platter, while within, they
arc full of C'XIortimt and excess.'' But\\ hen Appro. is
l:lrgc, combined wilh large reasoning and moral organs,
the person will highly regard character and the good
ooinio11 of men, nnd be con!iistent and honest in all
tl;ing-., and co11trolled by public opinion and fashion1
so
far as it is laudable, and no further.
FuLL, is ambitious to please, and to excel in labor, •
study, &c., yet will not do or suffer rnuch, to gain distinc-
tion ; with a good intellect, w;JJ prize temperate aud judi-
ciou~ praise without UE'ing \'ain : wtll uot be morbidly
~eu~itive to censure, and if Self-Esteem, Firm. and Com-
bat. be large, ~rill take a strnight forward. independent
course, nnd with large Consci. added, will do right, and
please self first, and be glad in so doing, to meet the ap-
pro,·al of others. "'\Vith a weak intellect, nnd bad train-
incr, nill be a rr\·ain boaster;'' set a high value upon
<lr~ss, show, ornament, praise and popularity.
AvERAGE, is temperately fond of praise; and if well
educated, will seek for that approval "';hich arises from
good moti\es and correct conduct. Is not indifferent to
characlcr1 nor t•cry sensitirc in respect to the opinions
92 APPROB A.TIYENESS.
of others. H Self-Esteem and Combat. he large, and
Adhes., Benev. and Secret. moderate, will be too inde-
pendent aud plain to sec•He general popularity; will say
l1ansh things to friends, and wound the feelings of the
sen:sitive, and although possessed of fine talents, will be
respected more for ability, than ease of manner and
su;wity of disposition, and have many enemies; and if
Acquis. be large, will think more of money than of
friends or fame, and be close in deal, and \'ery unpopular.
1\loDF.R.\TE, seeks first to please self, a11d if the caurse
\vhich seems to be right meets the sanction of others,
well-if not, will not lie awake nights on that account;
is not troubled by fashion, or the public will, and with
large Self-E<;tecm, will sLudy personal con\'euicnce, and
pay little regard to that of others, will take office or dis-
tiBclion with coolness, and feel insulted \vhen flattered.
'Vith large Consci. and small Secret., will often accuse
self, and acknowledge faults.
S.\tALL, thinks too little of character; will say and do
that which is indi:;creet, and censurable. If the moral
organs and Combat. be large, will seldvm, if e,·er, con.
suit expediency, but take a bold, fearless coun;e, and do
what appears to be right if a whole world chides, anrl
every fashion is arrayed against it. \Vith Ideal. and
Order small, will be careless in dress, manners, and gen..
eral deportment.
VEnY SMALL, is reckless of public opinion, and with
strong propensities, serves self on all occasions, and is
extremely unpopular, and needs very large moral organs,
to keep within the periphery of the civil law.
8ELF·ESTE&M. 93
13. SELF-ESTEEl\1.
Self-complacency, dignity, personal independence.
This organ is located on the middle line of the head,
adjoining, and backward of Firmness, at that point where
the head usually begins to slope backward. (See loca-
tion of Firmness.)
12. Arrogance. 13. 1\Iodesty .
13 Sc.:lf-E~tecm, \'ery large. 13 Self-Esteem, very small.
Ao.HTATJON. Some persons, when told that there is
an innate feeling of self-esteem in man, from which pride
may arise, at once object to phrenology, inasmuch as
moralists, and the scriptures, teach that humility is a vir-
tue, and that we must mortify self, &c. Self-Esteem is as
necessary in the mind, as any other emotion ; but, like all
other faculties, it is liable to abuse. The great error
consists in loving self too much, and others too little.
Christ, in his teaching, recognized this principle of self-
love, when he said, cttove thy neighbor, as" (but not bett£r
than) "thyself;" thus making self-love the high criterion
of fraternal love; as much as if he had said, it is natural
and proper, that you should love yourseh·es, and now all
94 SELF-ESTEEM.
that I require is, that you love others as well as, but no
better than, you do yourselves. Self-Esteem, is as deep-
ly implanted in the nature of man, and as jnst in its law-
ful manifestations as any other sentiment; it gives self-
satisfaction and complacency; a desire to rise among
men; imparts confidence in one's own powers, and
makes us value what is ours, and what we say, and do. It
gives independence of judgment, and leads us to be satis-
fied with our talents, and our personal identity, which no
one would exchange with any other, and also Jea.ds to the
use of the personal pronouns I, my and me, myself and
mine. It gives dignity and sel [-consequence, a desire to
be known and valued; willingness to assume responsibil-
ity, and to undertake the performance of the duties which
devolve upon every member of the human race. Some
persons shrink from responsibilities, and have such a
sense of iuferiority and unworthiness, as to unfit them to
undertake the discharge of duty, while others are too
officious in taking the lead, and try to climb to a position,
for which nature never designed them: the former, have
the organ of Self-Esteem too small, and the Jatter too
large, and neither have well balanced minds. The love
of personal independence, and freedom from arbitrary
authority, either political or religious, arises in a great
degree from this faculty. l\1any of the American Indian
tribes have the organ of Self-Esteem very large, and they
are proud, dignified, and great loYers of liberty. The
celebrated chief and warrior, Black Hawk, when intro-
duced to President Jackson, \Vith the most profound dig·
nity, said; "Yuu nre one man, and I am another."
'\-Vhen Gen. Harrison met a tribe of Indians for the pur-
pose of holding "a talk," the chief, when told that his
white father (Harrison) had prepared for him a seat, in
the nobility ofhis nature replied; "He my father 1 The
sun is my father; the em·th js my mother, and I repose
upon Iter bosom." The negro race have Jess Self-Es-
teem and Firmness than the Indian; hence, they are more
easily subjugated. Democracy, or a government in the
hanrls of the whole people, is the legitimate offspring of
this sentiment. Self-Esteem, well balanced throughout
society, would place every man upon the platform of
SELF-ESTEEl\1. 95
equal rights, which would not tolerate an aristocracy of
the few, to control the rnany ; but, while a few possess
large Sclf-E~teem, which gives a desire to control others,
tho:-:e h:l\'inO' less of it, will vicld to that control. The
0 -
spirit of liberty, personal and natioual, is deeply seated in
the human mind, and when that mind ~hall be illumina-
ted, intcllectu::dly and morally, "mountain:; may be heaped
upou it, or the angry ocea11 swell above it, it will burst
forth, at sometime, and somewhere, and Hamc up to
heaven."
Vr:R\' LAnoE. One having Self-Esteem very large,
has much pride of character, and n high sense of personal
honor, and individual liberty : willingly a!-sumes respo:Jsi-
bility; is independent in opinion; thinks highly of his
0\\'11 judgment i i~ fond of uictatillg others; will br. his
owrt ma~Ler and likes to be master of ollurs. "\Vith very
larJe Firm., Destruct. and Combat., aud a strong iutel-
lcct; will be morose, overbearing and self-willed, haughty
and tyr:wr11cal; easily aroused to an anogant, inuig11ant
tone of speceh, and action; will drive to "the high-
est seat in the sy nagoguc'' iu spite of circumstances, and
in deftance of oppo;:,ition, and become decidedly unpop-
ular.
L.\nr.c, has much personal independence; values self
highly; depends upon personal resources; likes to take
the lead; never wishes to be second; di::slikes to be dic-
tated; i-s disposed to lead off, and beat out a new, and
indcpendrnt track for operations; avoids any thing low,
mcau, or ucgradiug; say,, and dors, few tritiing things;
maintain<; identity; keeps aloof from those who are '- ul-
gar, thinks much of personal !tonor, will not be brow-
beaten; a"p1res to say, and do, something worthy of ~elf;
takes a cornm:mdincr, and diguifietl position in society;
0 •
detests dependence upon others, or servrce; cannot be
enslaved; even bows with dignity, and assumes a tone,
and manner, calculated to command respect. "Vith a
goocl intellect, strong moral pO\\ ers and an active temper-
ament; will be wonhy of confidence, and general e~teem,
nnd with large Combat., Destruct., Firm., Ideal. and
96 SELF-ESTEEM.
Adhes. added, will be a natural Jeader in society, and wi11
be looked up to ; and while respected for a high sense of
honor, weight, dignity and efficiency of character, will
be loved, and admired for talent, good taste, friendship,
and high moral worth. But if the intellectual and moral
organs be weak, conJbined with strong propeusities, the
person will manifest a saucy, proud, overbearing, dictato-
rial demeanor, which will merit extreme unpopularity, if
not the hatred, and contempt of all mankind. H Acquis.
be very large, with large Appro., and only average rea-
soning organs, the person will think his property is better
than that of others, and be always boasting of what is his;
and what he can do, or has done, and '' ith large Lang.,
moderate Ideal. and Secret. added, will not only be a
great boaster and egotist, but his company and conver-
sation will be extremely offensive, and his conduct ridic-
ulous.
,...
FuLL, sets a fair value upon self; desires to move in .j
an elevated sphere in society, feels a good degree of inde-
pendence in word and action, without great haughtiness.
If Combat., Firm. and De~truct. be large, and Caution
only average; will be, when aroused, mandatory, digni-
fied, and self-possessed, and have much weight of charac-
ter; but with 1he above combination reversed, will shrink
from a test of rights and personal dignity, and be easily
tamed by one with large Ftrm., Self-Esteem and Combat.
When Self-Esteem is full, combined with large Ven ,
Benev., Consci. and Ideal., and full social organs, with
fair propelling powers; the person \\'ill take an elevated
rank among men, yet wiJI not ue conceited, or arbitrary;
will mingle dignity with condescension, self re~pect
with politeness, and while claiming personal rights, will
guarantee the same to others.
AvERAGE. Those having this organ only averagP, are
frequently in doubt which way to act; often ask ndvice,
and are generally governed by it; may think vrry well of
self whe11 aloue; but when brought into competition with
others, feel unworthy and small, and except Comuat.,
Destruct. and Firm., be full, or large, and highly excited,
97
will not come out in bold relief, (especially in public,)
in defence ofprinciples, or personal rights; but with large
Adhes. and Uonsci , will boldly defend the rights of
friends, and speak for other:>, better than for self. Pub-
lic spelkers with this combination, feel embarrassed
when they rise to address an andiencc, but when caJied
out, and aro11sed, wilt sustain themselves, and go beyond
their own expectatious, and Lhat of their friends; will al-
ways w1sh for a. direct mvitatiou to speak; will fear to
trespass upon the attention of others, and thiuk others can
speak better th111 themsPlve~, aud more to ed1fication.
All per:sons having this combination, with large Caution,
and or.ly average Comhat., will be b:tshful, and timid
arnoug strangers, nnd even among a~sociates will be re-
tirin~, and f.1il to ta~e the station in society to which
goocl talents, may entitle them.
l\looERATI::, sets too low an estimate upon self; is not
proud, or self confident; values self, temperately, without
undervaluiug others; has some dignity, yet is not offi.ciou~,
and Ins not enough ScJt:.Esteem to give c'\se and weight
of ch:unctcr among superior persons. Combined wtth
large Appro., w11l be free to associat~ with all classe~,
atul heco111e familiar, and appro:-ach interior persons with-
out di 111ity ·, will nDt strin~ to assume a comm:mdinCJ sta-
.:"1 1:>
tion, or a dictatorial mnnner; and with a good intellect,
and large lmitat., L•mg. and Ideal., aud large social or-
gans, will become very popular with the middliug cla::-srs,
and be likely to rise to distinction upon the popular tide.
SH'Au., has too little spJfestimation to assume a proper
station; cannot keep nloof from inferior~, or command
their re~pect, or that ofsociety in genernl ; is too free, and
familiar; says too m:my trifling things; lacks dignity, and
cannot coutrol otben;;, except by persuasion. \Vith large
C.:tutio:t, will be extremely b1shful and timid, and with
large Appro. added, will be ashamed, and deeply embar-
rassed by trifles.
VERY s~tALT., has too low an opinion ofself; dislikes,
and shuns respnnsibility; gives au important opinion with
9
FIRMNESS.
hesitation; dP.pends too much upon the advice of others;
is likely to be controlled, and surrender rights; is not re·
garded with reverence by society, and cannot force man·
kind to follow or respect him. Combined with large
Appro. and small Firm., will have no self independence,
and cannot hold an edge, or carry out any thing, where
the popular voice ri::;es against it. With large Firm.
and Concent., may silently hold on upon opinions, but will
lack independence to assert and maintain them.
14. FIRMNESS.
Pc1'Sct•erance, stability, tenacity ofpurpose, ~c.
This organ is situated on the top of the back part of
the head, and is usual!y the highest portion in the heads
of males. Draw a ,·ertical line from the external open-
ings of the ears, and it will cross the anterior portion of
Fnmness.
14. Lawyer.
14 I'•ru•ne"'• n:r.r ~mall.
1:1 :o;df.B•tet•ul,v<ry :-ruall.
)!) BcrH;\ olenee, ''CI") l.ugc.
13. English Soldier.
14 Firrnnt''"• 'H'rY lar!rc.
13 :=:elf I::-teem, Vt!r) !are•·•
19 Dcnevoknct:1 \'CQ small.
The above cuts were drawn from skulls in our posses~
sion. No. 14, represent::; the skull or a lawyer who had
gre~t kinducss aud affection, but no firmness or self:.
1c::;pcct. lly vicious associates, he was led into intempcr-
..:.ucc and died a vagabond, because he could not ~ay No,
to their ~olicitations. No. 15, represents the skull of au
FIR'&INESS. 99
English soldier wl\0 was killed in battle at Bladensburg,
Maryland, in the late war with England. His character
must have been the reverse ofthat of the lawyer.
ADAPTATION. There is a principle in the human
mind, known by various names, such as constancy, de-
termination, perseverance, stability, &c. All who han~
distinguished themselves in any of the oreat pursuits of
life, and immortalized their names on tile pages of histo-
ry, arc very much indebted to this principle. \Vhat m·ails
the brightest intellect, if firmness ofpurpose be wanting!
Of what use is genius, if perseverance and stability do not
accompany it 1 The history of man will answer these
quest.ions. How often do we see talents of a high order,
remam useless to society and the world, from the fact that
those who possess them, lack that perseverance and sta-
Lility necessary to make splendid abilities profitable to
themseh·es, or useful to mankind 1 K o man, however
brilliant his intellect, unless endowed '"'ith a good share
of firmness, ever attained to any thincr valuable, for (/there
• • 0
1s nothmg worth halina that can be obtained without
etfort.10
Without hrmness, l 1
·ranK1m -woum mn c conuu-
ued a journeyman printer, Demosthenes would have
@(~mmcre<l on to the crrave, and Bonaparte remained a
common soldier. No
0
man can become truly great, with-
out it. Those having an average amount of intellect,
accomplish more with za,.ge Firmness, than others with a
stron(l' intellect, whose Firmness i!:i deficient. 'yc nre com..
mand~d in scripture to be "steadfast and immovable," and
not to be "carried about with every wind of doctrine."
Some people possess a wilful disposition and a tenacity
of opinion, which amounts to absolute stubbornness. No
one, in their opinion, is riO"ht, excepting themseh es; and
after they have imbibed a~ erroneous JUinciple, will not
acknowledge their error, though fairly convinced of the
fact. Other faculties, it is true, have much influence in
brinaing about this disacrreeable trait of character, but
c ~
Firmness is the main oraan, which, when abused, giYes
the kind of stubbornne;s to which we have alluded,
Unlike this, is the man of true firmness of character.
Instead of being wilful, and obstinate, he steadily pursues
100 FlRMNESS.
a given course without turning to the right or left, after
having first deliberated candidly upon the jnstice of that
course, and when certain that he is in the right, will uot
change his opinions for any consideration whatever, but
when convinced of an error, will readily retract, and own
his fault. Such i"' the legitimate manifestation of Firm-
ness, and when viewed in this light, its necessity to aU
well balanced minds, becomes perfectly obvious.
VERY L.'>RGE, has extreme trnacity of purpose, and
opm10n, is set and fixed, and reluctantly abandons
schemes and plans when once committed upon th.em ;
perseveres to the last in every undertaking, and with
average Consci., will not acknowledge an error, but pur-
sue the wrong, to gratify the will; wi1 h large Combat.
aud Destruct., nnd moderate Ven., will be obstinate and
~tubborn, but with a large dc,·elopment of the organs of
the moral sentiments and intellect adcled, will have that
kind of firmness necessary to true greatne:ss.
- - - - - LARGE, has a great share of perseverance of character., b
and firmness ofpurpose and opinion; is not easily diverted
from uudE'rtakingti; with large Self-Esteem, will he inde-
pendent in every thing; with large Secret., will not man-
ifest to acqu'lintanees and friends a wilful disposition ;
with l:uge Consci., Concent. and Self-Esteem, will be
stable minded, and always pur~ue a straight forward
course; with Combat., De~truct. and Hope large, will be
very energetic, and UC\'f'T relioqni!-h a pursuit, after hav..
ing fairly enlisted in it; but with the above organs mod-
erate, will Jack force and energy, while firmness of opin·
ion may still remain; with large or very large Caution,
will look upon all sides of a question, and deliberate long~
before coming to a decision, yet after having decided,
wjJl be finn, and fixed; with moderate Concent., may
appear fickle mindt'd, and perhaps often change one kind
of business for another, aud at the same time manifest
much power of will and purpose; with large or very
large, Benr.v., Consci. and Ven., will persevere in bene••,
olent enterprises with great ardor and honesty.
MORAL SENTIMENTS. 101
Fuu., has considerable firmness of opinion, and fi:(ed-
ness of purpose, yet under great difiiculties, will show
some want of stability and determination; with. large
Combat. and Destruct., may be stubborn and oh~tinate
when excited; with small Concent., will be liable to
change of rmud and lack constancy and stability in the
common pursuits of life.
Avr.RA.GE, will generally manifcl't a good share of sta-
bility and firmness, yet readily yield premises or opinions,
and often ask the advice of others; may manifest will
and temper, if Destruct. and Combat. be large, and "hen
excited, contend for a short time with great sp1rit and
earnestness; with moderate Concent. added, wjU have a
temper like a whirlwind-one blast and it wlll be all over.
l\1onERATE, is not teuaciom; of opmions, but readily
yields them, and pursues a course of life which has been
marked out by others; is too easily '·knocked off the
track," aud may sometimes yield to temptatiou, knowing
it to be \Vrong; iacks that firmness necessary to withstand
the enticements of the profligate a.nd vicious; with an
average development of the rea~oning organs, and small
Concent., will be fickle and "uastable as water,"
Sl'I.ALL, is subject to change of mind nnd purpose,
lacks constancy, and determination, and liko ohaff before
the wind, is carried forward by the breath of popular
opinion; with large Combat. and Destt•uot., may possess
force and energy, but lack stability and perseverance. .
VERY SMALL, ts totally deficient in firmness and sta-
bility; manifests no decision or perseverance, and is ea-
sily led astray by the artful and designing.
Species 11. MoRAL AND RELIGious SENT1ME1'{Ts.
Man 1~ not only endowed with all the propensities which
are possessed by the lower animals, but he has a moral
and religious nature, which they do not possess. He ha.s
an idea of a God, and moral obliuation. and expects im-
9~ 0 ,
102 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
mortality. Some few persons m~y drny this, hut moral·
ity and religion are inseparable frc..m 1he human constitu-
tion. Tl1e~e facult1cs nre the foundation of all moral,
benevolent and religiolls ~ocielles, :md point to the fulfil-
ment of the dictates of duty between man and man, and
form the conuectirw Jiuk between him aud his God.
0
The organs of these seutiments are situated at the
upper portion of the head and when lar,:-re the head is
very high from the eyes and ears upw;ud, b~1t when small
it is Jow. 'fhe s11bjoined cuts of Dr. Gall, and Pope
AJexander VI., ~how a bold contrast. The former was
highly moral, the latter an unprecedented monster of
wickedness.
lG Dn. GALL . 17. PoPE ALEX..HDLR VI.
15. CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
Honesty, sense ofjustice and moral obligation.
This org'\n is situated on e:1ch side of Firmness, nnd
between Hope aml Approbativeness. See cut No. ll,.
p. 85.
ADAPTATION. Metaphysicians, prior to the days of
Dr. Gall, did not agree in their opinion~ respectin~ tho
innateness of the moral sense, or conscaence. It as not
stranae that they should thus differ, when we consider
t.hcir
0
mode of reasoning upon the various faculties of tho
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 103
rninll. Thny tool' their own conscicJIJsness a3 ~ guide,
and were thus not only Jed into m:auy errors, hut \\ere
abo at variance with each (Jther. Ou(• hn,·ing n ~trong
sense ofju~ti(:e auclmoral ohligntion \\'ould, in publi~hing
a r-;y~tcm of ethic::-:, maintain that tltc moral ft'n~e i::-: in·
nate, if he rea--onctl from hi:l own cou,cio••'nPss, nr his
ideas of right and "rong; while anot her ha\'ing an obtmc
moral sense, \\'oulcl, (rca~ouing fro111 the !'arne !"Ourcc)
deny the innatenc:--s of con~cicnce. Phrenology, how-
ever, set:; this topic of dn~pute nt rest, :wd prol"es by li1cts
which cannot be contrcrerted, that a seu:;:c of moral obli-
gation i~ an iunnte ~entirnent in mnn, aucl mm1ifc~t1:d hy
a distinct orgnn. Ir there was no ~errn, which produces
an idea of ju::::tice nnd injustice, right and wrong, man
could uo more Lt taught to he honf·~t, thnn the lowt•st
brute that he controls. \Vhcn a person has done a
wrong net, this facult\' produces rernor~e. But we do not
infer from this, thnt abandoned crimiual~ suffer remorse
commen~urate with their crime~; for rhr.y generally h:H·e
the organ small, and theref(>re ha,·c Lut Jiulc pnin ofcon-
science. This facu Ity is often appenle(l to in the sacrE'u
writing~. :wei many hlc~siugs nre promi~etl to tho:-:e who
deal justly, and maintain equity 111 all tlwir intercourse
with the world. Conscientiou~ue~s is blind of it~elf, and
needs an cnlightenf!d intellect to gi,·e it a proper direc-
tion. The $landard of moralit\', therefore, in a nation
or community, depeuds altogether upon education and
moral training. lu nations where the Bible is reau, the
"Golden Rule" is the standard of morality, nnd laws are
instituted, which have their foundation upon this, and
other command~. fouud in the s<~cre<l rolurne. In sa\•age
countries, a differtul code of moral~ exists, and a man
may con~ider it not only ju~t, but a duty incurnhenl upon
him to rcrenge an injury and "return evil for evil." The
Ilindoo is as CO:-!! cie1 tious in performing his religious
rites, as the enlightened follower of Jesus Christ. Phi-
]anthropi~t~. who have in view the reformation of mnn-
kind, should consider the importnnce of in5tilling into
tlu~ minds of the young the absolute necessity of moral
and virtuous conduct, aJI(l impre~sing upon them this
truth, that without it, no lasting cujoymeut can be real-
(
104 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
ized in the present life. Every parent and teacher,
should take as much pains to teach those under their
charge the principles of morality, as they do to educate
the intellect. That such has not been the case hitherto,
needs no other proof, than a reference to the annals of
crime. Why are so many of our distinguished states-
men, and professional men, guilty of crimes which hu-
manity blushes to record? Why are not all great men,
good men 7 Why did Pope say of one of the greatest
philosophers that England ever produced,
"If parts allure thee, think how Bacon shined,
The wisest, brightest, mt1anest of munl<ind?"
Why, we would ask, are these facts staring us in the
face? Because man's intellect has been highly cultiva-
ted, and the moral powers left, like the garden of the
s~uggard to be overrun with the weeds of immorality and
VICe.
VERY LARGE, is strictly honest and upright; suffers
much through fear of doing wrong; censures those se-
verely who are dishonest; has an excessive regard for
duty; will not countenance injustice or oppression in the
least degree; readily discriminates between right and
wrong, and is punctual to fulfil engagements; with large
Acquis., will be very eager to accnmulate wealth, yet
honest in its acquil'ition; with large Firm. and Combat.,
will possess great moral courage and never shrink from
duty; with a weak intellect, and moderate Ji'irm., will be
liable to be led astray by others, but when convinced of
the error will suffer strong compunctions of conscience.
LARGE, will be exact to do jllstly; is a great lover of
truth and equity, and always intends to be upright and
honorable, when dealing with others; wilJ not knowingly
cheat, or defraud any one, and believes that "honesty is
the best policy" at all times; intends to be punctual, but
with very large Hope, and average Caution, may some-
times promise more than he can perform; but with large
Lang., Secret. and Marvel. added, will be liable to exag-
gerate when te1ling anecdotes; still, when reminded of
the fact, will show much penitence and sorrow and at-
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 105
tempt to reform, yet after many reproof~. will he ohlaged
to guard ag<tinst the sin of exaggeration, and keep a
watchful sentinel at the point which is weak :mel ea~ily
overcome. This cornhination Rhows why ~orne persons,
who arc considered perfectly hone~t in th~>ir dealings with
t~t!ir fellow men, are guilty of exaggeration, \\'hen rcla-
tmg anecdotes.
Fur.L, has a good share of honesty nf pnrpm-e and in·
tegrity; inlend:s to be just in de~lling with otht>rs, Jet may
) icld to tcmptatiou, and knowingly do \Hong, !Jut if such
should be the case, will suffer remorse for the act;
with the orgnns of the propensities full, will be likely to
maintain a reputation for honesty and integrity, :wei gnin ..
the confidence aud respect of the public. lt should IJe
remembered, however, that with the al.Jo\e combination,
and a full development of the rcnsoning organs, the <'Oll·
rluct of the person will depend much upon education,
trniniug and associates, and will be equally iucJiucd tow-
ar<.ls virtue and vice.
AvEnl,cE, has some 1·ight motive~. but do(')S not feel
much remnrse of con~cience, and beliercs thnt ''c"ery
rn"'n lt'IC: hie: l)rl·cn ·" \V.Itll ,..,r r'fO Secret "';" ,.,....;,."''~·--
··· -·· ··...... r ,,, ·-·b\"· . ' ·• ·····"''t'···~"''''v
nnd deceive: with very lar,Q"c Acqu1s. added, will ovcr4
rench in deal, nnd be di~lton(~~t in the ncqui~ition of
wealth; with \'ery large Se:li~E~teem nnd App•o., will
stri\'c to gain the character of au honest indiridual, for
the purpose of being popular, but will not bP ~en!'1hle of
the injustice of evil deeds, nor cnre any thmg about them,
if the community are ignorant of the facts, aud his chareo
acter is not affected thereby.
:MooERATE, is seldom conscious of hadng performed
nn unjn:-,t act; suffers little remorse for evil dee<.ls; thinks
that there is no real honesty :unong rnnnl<iud; intends to
be as honest ns the times will admit, ann has a rerv obtuse
morn) CJe; with lar11e Veu., will show much clevotional
feeling and wor:-hip e-from pure motircR, and at the snme
time he called hypocritical by the world, anrl by some acts
of di~honcsty otfen<l those who hare thls organ very Jargc.
. ..
106 HOPE.
SMALL, disr.ards the "Golden Rule," and pays little
regard to duty or moral principle, and never feels remorse
for crimes; with large or full Acquis., will be prone to
commit theft; with large Secret. and Hope added, will
lie, cheat and steal, and make promises, knowing that he
cannot fulfill them.
VERY SMALJ., has no regard for the principles of hon·
esty and morality ; is unjust in dealincr with others, and
with large Destruct. and Acquis., will be likely to mur·
der for gain.
16. HOPE.
The miserable l1ave no other medicine,
But only !tope. SHARBPEARE.
Located, forward of Conscientiousness, and outward
of the front part of Firmness, on each side of the top
ofthe head.
ADAPTATJO~. Trouble, sickness, sorrow, hardship,
reverses, and a thousand nameless ills, bestrew the path
of life. \Vere it not for this faculty of Hope, the world
would he indeed, a vale of tears. Energy of character
would be useless, could we not look with the eye of hope,
through the gloom of present difficulties. 'Ve grapple
with opposition, because we hope to overcome. Who
tries to swim the Atlantic, overturn the Andes, or con·
trol the tide? And why not? Reason condemns the
attempt as impossible, and hope can promise no success.
No sane mind attempts impossibilities; yet hope cheers
man onward to accomplish gigantic enterprises, and
however angry may he the storm, hope anticipates the
rainbow of promise. Imagine a man totally destitute of
this joy-inspiring emotion, add polar ice would warm his
soul. Without hope, all promises would be valueless.
It promises spring; tells of the harvest; enaourages lhe
languishing invalid; nerves the seaman's arm to strug..
gle with old ocean's angry billows, and paints upon earth's
dark drapery, tile sun..}it joy. It lifts the curtain of time,
HOPE. 107
and points to immortality! The influence of this facul-
ty on human happiness, is very great. When weJI dE'vel-
oped, it imparts a joyful cheerfulness in the common
wallts of life, ancl inspires in the hour of trouble, a pros·
pect ofrelief. Wh~n it is deficient, the person looks on
the dark and gloomy; magnifies present difficulties, and
sees no smiling goddess to beckon him to a happy future.
Such persons imagine themselves unworthy in the sight
of Heaven, and indulge a settled melancholy in respect
to futurity, when at the same time they may be iu a fair
way for immortal joys. Others hope too much ; build
unreasonable expectations for the future, to the. neglect
of present duty, and promise more than they can perform.
VERY LARGE. One having Hope very lar·ge, feels a
buoyancy of prospect, which imparts at least an Imag-
inary comfort; thi11 ks all will yet be well, even when
trouble and adversity l1owl around; lives in the future; is
always expecting something better than present enjoy-
ments, aud longing for its arrival, and frequently promis-
es self, and others, too much. If Caution and Causality
are large, they will check hope, and induce the person to
lay a tirrn basis for cxpectationq, who will be cheerful,
yet proceed with cnrc; but if those organs be ouly fulJ,
or average; will build ca~tlcs in the air, ·'have too many
irons iu the fire," promi~e much more thnn perform, and
pcrh~p:l get the uame of di~houesty; fall far ~hort of de-
signs, aud meet with disappointments, and re' er~e~, yet
the ardor of pursuit will be increased rather than dimin-
ished; with large 1\lirth. added, will ue lively, gay and
merry; and with large ~e) f-Estcem, will plan largely, be
eutcrpri:-;ing, and feel coufideut of success; with large
Acquis. and flill 1\tar\'CI. nddeu, will run risks in business,
speculate iu lithocrraphic city loU;, &c., for the sake of
largr' profits; add::>large Adhes., will promise friends, en-
dorse for them &c., \Vith Acquis. moderate, wiiJ let the
future take cure of itself without present effort, and feel,
that •'sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.''
L.~ltr.E, is buoyant and cheerful; tramples present
troubles; ha::i bright views of the future; magnifies pros-
..
108 noPE.
pects; diminishe~ difficultins; dismis~e.s 'dull care' and
'$miles through a tear.' \V1th a good mtcllect and large
Caution, will be prudent in busine!'s. aud other undertak-
inl!s; attempt what appears probable; and with ·large
C<imhat. and !i"irrn., will overcome impediment~, and
magter great enterprises. \Vith the abm·e combination~,
and Caution only average, with lnr:,re Self-E~teern, will
assume bold responsibilities; lear! off in advauce of man-
kind, and generally succeed well; with large Marnd.
added, will J..y st upendnu!' piau~; promise largP.ly, de-
sign to do, and attempt great thingc:, nnd to the cautious,
appear reckless; will he angry if fritmds attempt to di~­
suade from auy rash !'peculation; always has much nnfin·
ishcd hu~iness on haurJ, and with large Coustruct. and
.•-\ppro., will study upon inv~lltions to obtain great wealth
and a name. With large Benev. and Del>Lruct., aud large
social org'\ns, will be a good nurse to the desponding
sick, and alway!' try to smoothe the p;:th of afh:ersily and
so;·row, hy poiutifl$! to a hri,2ht and peaceful future; will
feel co:a-.olecJ unner losses, that the losses are no greater,
instead of sinking in de~pair.
l.,lTLL! is !-<anguin~ :mel nrcl~nt, in view of the fut•ue, ~
yet nnt mtemperatP. m expectat1on~. H the temperament
be active, will exhiuit checrfnlne!'s without exhileration,
anfl seldom sink beneath difficulties. \Vith a Bilious
Nervous tempernmeut, and Ltrge Caution, will be sub-
ject to seasons of depression; h tre clark honrs nnd low
t'pirits, )Ct at times, be very cheerful. If A<'quis. and
Marvel. he large, and Caution ouly arcragP., will have an
enterprising, $peculating turn of mi~ttl, and run some
hazard in business; will credit promises and expect ~uc­
cess, yet if Caus. he only average, will hope more than
reason, plan too largely, aud get into difficulty, but if
Caution ue large, and Acquis. <md Marvel. only full,
prudence in husiuess and conduct, will result, and with
large reasoning and percepti\·e faculties will be highly
judicious, and if the propelling orgt~ns be large, will be
energetic and forcible, aud accomplish much, nud prom·
ise little.
lJOPE~ 109
AvmHGE, is temperate in promises to self and others;
lives rather on the realities of life, than in the regions of
fancy ; strives by present effort to have future prospects
well founded, and moves on in an eveu tenor, neither
hoping, or fearing without a basis. If Caution be large,
will keep near shore, and sometimes feel depressed,
especially if combined with ill health, or a Nervous tern·
perament.
MooERATE, will expect too little in reference to the
future; looks on the dark side of prospects; must hare
the npprovat of1·cason before emuarkiug upon any thing
of importance, and if s~tt:Esteem be only average, will
see!c, anti \'aluc the advice of friends; consult precedents,
and rely more upon effort, than lucl; or fortune; is pre-
p1red to hc~tr of losses and dtsappointmcnts, and in
trouble needs much encouragement. If Cautiun be very
large, will hesitate and oalauce between hope and fear,
till good opportuuities nrc past; will magnify troubles and
minify comliJrts, aud need assistance anti help from
fri<'!tHJs, to carry on l>ustness. Wtth large Ven. and
Consci, and mr,derate Man e!. added, the person will
feel that the earth is truly a vale of tears, and the future
will nlways look dark, and if a professor of religion, .,..,..ill
doubt personal acceptance with God, often feel con-
dcrnnP.d, and drend a future state, though perhap::; in the
p:lth of duty, aml the road to lJiiss-rcverse this cornbi-
u:ttinu, aud the feelings and na::
mifestations wdJ be re-
\"Crsec.l.
SH \l,t., is nnt P.laterl at succes~; lookq for, and expects
rcver:-;e:; a11d misfortuues; is easily discourager! and hor·
ro~\'!" troahle C\ell in advautaaeons ctrcnnbtances. \Vith
0
C •••I iou full or large, will hP. l'U hjecl to low ~pirits, a_
nd
i11dlll r(! and li~Stcr mclaiJcholv ft>eliwr!'. Persons Wtth
~ J ~
thi...; c·,·tJI,iU"ttion, should <Hotd ~ed tte society, peu::,ive
uon~\:-:, ,)r scenery of a mournful and gloomy ca::>t.
v ~:nv S>t H.r., C'\pccts hnt little g()()d, and looks upon
the f••tnrc \\ ith fear and donut, and uen·r undertakes any
thi.•J au ruhtt t.! ri:,!~. \Vith large Con::ci. aud C.lUtiou,
lO
110 MARVELLOUSNESS.
will be timid and irresolute, and never act, fearing to act
wrong, and with large Destruct., has the combination of
a suicide.
17 . 1\IARVELLOUSNESS.
lVonder, credulity, faith, trust and confidence.
Located on each side of Veneration, between Imitation
and HoJJC.
An.UTATION. 'Vithout a faculty in the human con-
stitution, the office of which is, to give credit to the as-
eertions of others, and the descriptions of things which
we have not seen, &c., our belief of the existence of
things, and phenomena in general, would necessarily be
limited to the narrow sphere of our own observation. It
is natural for man to belie~·e the assertions of his felJO\v
man, to exercise faith in each other, by which means,
social intercourse is rendered instructive and agreeable.
Oue can transmit those facts which have fallen under his
notice, and others by exercising credulity in their reality,
can, as it were, experience the history of others, and be-
come acquainted with nations, manners, and countries
which they can never see. This faculty is the foundation
of all faith, where demonstration is either inconvenient,
or impossible. Man is fond of the wonderful, the extrav-
agant, and marvellous. This feeling is early manifested
in children, and their confidence in their parents and
teachers, is almost unlimited. Instruction in those things
which they cannot comprehend with inte11ect or the
senses, anti their belief of such subjects as present no
evidence but the word ofthe teacher, are received through
the medium of this faculty. With what delight do they
listen to the tales of wonder and extravagance, \~hich are
related to them ! Beings so teachable as childreu, and
so highly delighted as they are with informat!on, should
be taught correctly; yet some persons are Ignorant or
vicious enough to deceive children for their own amuse-
ment. '\Vhen the teaching is wrong, and they are told of
fictitious powers and agencies, such as the German St.
MARVELLOUSNESS. Ill
Nicholas, Fairies, ghost stories, witches, signs, ominous
dreams, lucky days, &.c., they become superstitious, cred.
ulous, and are easily led into error by the infatuated bigot.
Many persons having strong intellectual powers who have
been thus deceived in childhood, totally condemn every
thing which is not susceptible of proof by their senses or
their reason; and may we not conclude that infidelity
itself feeds upon this abuse of MarveJlousness, this tres.
pass upon the intellect? Rev. Mr. Warne of PhiJa., in
his work entitled ((Phrenology in the Family," p. 220,
says, "This faculty is really indispensable to man, in his
present condition; for without it he would be incapable
altogether of religious faith. Such "faith is the realiza·
tion of things hoped for ; the confident expectation of
things not seen;" i. e., not submitted to the evidence of
the senses; nor capable of appreciation by them." Mar·
vellousness is abused, by enlarging upon facts. The
fabrication of works of imagination and fiction, spring
from it. Tasso, Swedenborg, Sir Walter Scott, Shaks-
peare, and most poets, novel writers, and those who
abound in theory and fancy, have the organ large.
VERY LARGE. One having ?tfarveJ. very large, is
eager to hear the news; is excited with the highest pleas·
ure in reading of, or viewing strange phenomena; and
has no lack of religious credence or faith. If Secret.
be moderate, is liable to be imposed upon by taking for
granted whatever may be related, howe\'er m}'sterious or
wonderful. Large Secret. and Caus., however, will insti·
tute suspicion and doubt; yet accompanied with a strong
desi1·e that extraordinary and marvellous statements may
prove to be true. If the intel1ect be weak, the person
will believe in omens, dreams, forewarnings, &c.
LAnGE. One with lm·ge 1\farvel., manifests a disposi-
tion to take upon trust many things which are not sus-
ceptible of demonstration by the senses; has much natural
credulity or faith; delights in the wonderful, uncommon
or astonishina in nature or art; likes works of imagina~
tjon, and tho~gh known to be such, they will seem to be
112 MAitVELLOUSNESS.
reality; thinks much of autltority and precedent; is fond
of enterprise, renovation, new things, change and im-
provement; with large Ven., Comp., Event., Local. and
Form, will be fonu of collecting antiques, miuerals, and
curious specimens from the four quarters of the globe,
and with large Acqnis. added, will set a high \'alue upon
them. With a feeble intellect, wiJl be supcrstttious in
religious IJeJief, and in regard to lucky days, dreams,
omens anc.l signs.
FuLL, is fond of the new and extraordinary, of reno-
vation, new builclings, new arrangements and improve-
ments; has :1 mind open to conviction, and manifests
considerable credulity; has a desire to investigate the
wonderful, and wishes that it may prove true; is naturally
confiding and trusts in friends; believes with less evi-
dence than many persons, yet is not blindly credulous.
With large reasoning organs, must hare clear eri<.lence,
yet has sufficient faith, to create that intellectual curiosity
which leads to investigation.
AvERAGE. One having Marvel. average, is willing to
hear and read both ~ides of a question, to weigh and in-
vestigate any subject, and wishes to believe every thing
which is susceptible ofproofor legitimate inference; wiH
often doubt, yet desire to believe; question propositions,
yet seek for truth. "'\Vith very large Ven, Benev. and
Hope, will look upon the revelation, and prospect of eter-
nal scenes with high delight and active faith, and in
works of charity, expect the fulfillment of every promise
to the mercifuL
MoDERATE, will yield to good evideuce on subjects
which savor of the supernatural or extraordinary, and
with strong reasonir~g powers, disbelieve without it; be-
lieves what can be understood and explained; is skepti-
cal and credulous at times, yet not rigidly so, unless Self-
Esteem and Firm. be very Jarge; dislikes old theories,
and wiiJ reject them unless founded on reason, or very
strong probability.
VENERATION. 113
SMAT.L, has too little faith; closes the door of the mind
:1gainst truth, unless accompanied with an overwhelming
amount of evidence; will reject probabilities; dispute
analagous reasoning, and with Ven. moderate, will take
the i'pse dirit of no person as evidence on any doubtful
subject, unless backed by reason and probaLility; will
reject old customs or modes of thinking, and with large
Caus. ancl Self-E~teem, bring every thing to the staodard
of his own conceptions, without regard to high names,
or musty records of human authority.
VERY s~rAT.L, is a downright skeptic; too narrow
and rigid in opinions; doubts almo~t every thing but his
own senses, and even questions the truth of their asser-
tions; will try to account for every thing on natural
principles, and reject all which lies beyond their reach.
18. VENERATION.
Rcvcrcncefor Deity, drsir·c to arlm·e and worship, founda-
tion of1·cligious fuZing, tS..c.
This organ is situated on the top of the head, between
Firmness and Benevolence.
18. Skull in Dr. Gall's collection. 19. Dr. Hette. •
I L'""' i • .:. •., '
--:- '" ~ ~-. t~ ~~-
:~~ ..'\
:I . _;. . -· '\
·( -(;_ .
- ·• -· --_ :_,
} 'y I.-: ·: ., ; I
F
,\..__l'_
L___ • ·•. ::,_____- .•
'-.......-----.. .
-~,.-.-:---~~-
18 Veneration, ,·cry lnr~r. 18 Veneration, very small.
H ['irm., &. 1!) Ileuev., l"lllall. 11 Firm.,&. 19 Benev., large.
AoAPTATio:-:. The history of mankind prores that
there is no nation however degraded, ignorant or de-
haded, who do not pay homage and adoration, either to
" Copied from Combe's System ofPhrenology.
to•
114 VENERATION.
the a one living and true God," to an image of man's de·
lice, the suu, the moon, reptiles, beasts, or the genius
ofthe storm. This natural desire to wor:ddp somtthing,
manifebted by all mankind, furnishes strong evidence
that this desire is an innate sentiment in the humnn mind.
Theologians of the present <.lay, hold that religion is a
natural principle in man. Rev. Dr. Nott, President of
Union College, says, "Religion is a first principle in
man. It exi~ts in the worltl, not because Kings have
ordained and Priests defended it; but because God formed
man to be religious. liE> pays from necessity an homage
to religion, an homage that cannot be wtthheld; it is
the homage of his nature." These views of the )earned
Dr. re~pecting the innateness of the religious sense in
man, are iu strict accordance with the doctrines of Phre-
nology as taught by its founder and adrocates. .Mr.
Combe, in speaking on this sentiment, says, "As nature
has implanted the organ of Veneration in the brain, and
the corresponding sentiment in the mind, it is a ground-
less terror to apprehePd that religion can ever be extin-
guished, or even endangered, by the arguments or ridi-
cule of the profilne. Forms of worship may chauge, and
particular religious tenets may now be fashionable, and
subsequently fall into decay; but while the human heart
continues to beat, awe and Yeneralion for the Di\·ine
Being will e\·er animate the soul, and not until the race
of man becomes extinct, will the worshiper cease to
kneel, or the hymn of adoration to rise.'' Veneration is
a blind instinct, and cannot of itself judge of the proper
object of worship. Such tJeing the case, we see the ne-
cessity of Re\·clation to direct mankind to the only prop-
er Being to be adored and had in re\·erence. Supersti-
tion abounds in those countries where the light of intelli-
gence and Revelation has never beamed. 'Vithout the
Bible to direct, and guided solely by the natural desire
to adore something, the aborigines of this country wor-
ship various objects; the Hindoo, Juggern~ut; and the
Cllinese, idols ofdivers kinds. The superstitious notions
of heathen nations prove, not only the innateness of the
sentiment to worship a Superior Being, but the necessi-
ty of enliglttcncd reason, to give that sentiment a just !lDd
VENERATION. 115
proper direction. It is a fact, humiliating in the extreme
to the enlightened mind, that a larcrc majority of the hu-
• . b
man rncc now ex1st111g on the earth, arc led hy this sen-
timent, Ullaided uy Rcrclation, to worship iclols. Such
will nlwnys h~ the cn~c, until the light of Rerelation and
iutelligcrwc shall h:t\'C beamed on ev€-ry nation of the
globe. 'Yhen this organ is large, it uoes uot necessarily
follow, that the person thus cuuowcu will be devout: or
devoid of skepticism in regard to Re\'elation. Belief
depcnu!'l upon the orgnn of 1\1 nrvellousnc~s. and professeu
intidels frequently have that organ small in combination
with large Veneration. The education of the intellect,
nnd through it the moral pow~rs frequently determine the
direction of the moral character.
VErrv 1.-.\RGt:, l1as great reverence fl'}r Deity, and when
engagcu in religious worship, feels \'i\·id emotions and
manifec;ts much !error in de' utional exercises; with ''NY
lnrge Consci. and Firm., will adhere to ::;orne particular
form of worsl1ip; with large Auhes. added, will l>e fond
of social meetings for religious com·crsntion nnd prayer,
and become strongly attached to urethren in the church,
and despise all professors of religion who are not strictly
moral and honest in nil theil' intercourse anu dealings
with others; with large lnhab. and Concent., will have
strong attachment to place of public won:;hip; with very
large Philo., will have much anxiety about the eternal
happincs:s of children.
LAtH~c, is much inclined to respect religious institn-
tions; thinks much of Deity as manifc~.tecl in IIis works;
has much derotional feelin<Y, and treats with deference
and respect the aged, the \\~Se, and persons in authority;
with large Comci., will be honest in all professions of
piety and de\'otion, but with Con:;ci. moderate, wiJJ be
dishonest, and at the same time fervent in devotionaJ
exercises; with an acti..·e intellect, wilJ be fond of antiques
and the history of the ancients, and with large Acquis.
nnd Adhcs. added, will lay up old coins, armor and arti•
clcs of clothing and furniture which were once the prop-
erty of parents or relatives.
116 VENERATION.
FuLL, is not remarkable for devotional feeling~; pays
due respect, huwovcr, to religious institutions; with large
Consci. and Benev., and average Combat. and Destruct.,
will not ridicule religion, or those who make proressions
of piety, and manifest an ardent de~ire to do good; will
not be a "Sunday christian" merely, but be consistent
in "word and deed;" with moderate 1\lanel. and Hope,
and large Caus., will have many doubts in regard to that
part of Revelation which treats of the supernatural, and
like Thomas Didymus, need much proof to be convinced
of truth.
AvERAGE, is capable of enjoying religious feelings, and
under favorable circumstances, will manife~t considera-
ble devotion; with large 1\1anel. and weak intelJect, will
be rather superstitious, but with large reasoning organs
and moderate 1\Ianel., wiU worship according to the dic-
tates of reason, and be void of superstition and lJlind zeal.
MoDERATE, will not be likely to be very devotional,
or placE'! much reliance upon creeds or forms of worship,
and will not bow the knee to any created object; with a
good intellect, and large Consci. and Benev., may have
some zeal, but it will be "according to knowledge;'' with
large Combat. and Firm., and full Destruct., Hope and
Marvel., will be stable and firm, in religious belief.
SMALL, has but little regard for forms of religious
worship, or creeds of men; does not admit any superiors,
and pays little respect to persons in authority; with large
Con:sci., Benev. and Self-Esteem, will think more of mo-
rality and kindness, than of forms, creeds, or the opinions
of any man, or set of men.
VERY SMALL, is wanting in devotional feelings ; treats
those in office and power as equals; does not pay due
respect to the ministerial office; with small .Marvel., will
disbelieve the scriptures, anJ with large Destruct., Self-
Esteem and Mirth. added, will be profane, and ridicule
those who are truly pious, and strict in the performance
of religious duties.
DENEVOLENCE. 117
19 . DENEVOLENCE .
](indncss, sympatlty, p!tilantltropy, mildness of cltaractcr,
desire to see ot/u.n; IW]JPY.
This organ is situated on the top of the front part of
the head. Sec cuts, p. 9 .
ADAPTATION. There is a sentiment in the human
mind \\.'hich looks beyond the narrow bounds of self, and
gra~ps within its warm embrace the who!e human family.
It 'preads its broad pinion~, and with the fleetness of
thougl1l encircles the whole world, and pleads for univer-
sal happine::;s: leanng earth, it soars to the throne of the
Almighty, and pleads for mercy to be bestowed Jike the
rain, and the light of the suu, "upon the just and uujust.,
It is the srntiment of bcnwolcnce. 'Vtthout it, mankind
would ha\'e no sympatl1y for the afflicted, the distressed
and the sufrering, anti would hear the pleadmgs of the
children of want, and offer them no relief: But thanks
to the Author of our being, benevolence ex1sts, and is
manifested in \'arious ways. Excited upon "iewing the
sons and daughters of nflliction, suffering und want, it
]cads to sympa1 hy, and if pos:;iblf" affords rrlicf. 'Vhen
it embraces the whole family of man, it is Philanthropy.
Influenced by this scntnncnt, Howard visited the prisons
of Europe for the purpose of reliering the di~tress and
misery of the unhappy victims confined within their
gloomy walls. The noble act of the "Good Samaritan,"
as recorded in scripture, is a remarkable in~tance of a
pure manifestation of the sentiment of benevolence. It
iti not contined to our own species; but with its arms of
universal love, it embraces every thing which is suscepti-
ble of pain and !5orrow, and ha5tens to ameliorate its con~
dition. 'Vithout benevolenc-e, the whole human family
would be governed by selfishness, and the command,
"Love thy neiahi.Jor as thpself," would be unjust, because
it could not b~ obevcd. It should be borne in mind,
hoWC\'Cr1 that many men do acts of kindness, which oth·
ers think spring from ben~volence, that do not h:l\'e their
origin in this pure sentiment, but in so{ne selfish feeling.
(
118 JlENEVOLENCE.
The love of Approbation prompts many to give liberally
to benevolent institutions, that they may receive praise
from their fellow men. Adhesiveness leads us to be kind
to relations and friends: Philoprogenitiveness gives the
desire for the welfare and happiness of our children; but
Benevolence is not limited in its sphere of action, to the
praise of men, the lo\'e of friends or ofchildren. It gives,
for the pure lm·e of givincr, and receives its own reward.
Pollok describes the character of a man endowed with
this faculty in an extraordinary degree, in the following
beautiful lines.
"The law of love was in hi:, heart, aliYe ;
What l1e pos~!'s,cd, he counted not his own,
But, like a faithful steward in a hou~c
Of public alms, what freely he received
H e freely gave, distriLuting to all
The hclple!"s the last mite beyond his own
Temperate support, and reckoning still the gift
But ju-;tice, due to want ; and so it was,
Although the world, with compliment not ill
ApplicJ, adorned it with a fairer uan1c.
Nor did he wait till to his door the voice
Of ~upplication came, hut went abroad,
'Vith foot as ~i l cnt as the ::-tarry dew:-,
In search of m1~NY that pined unseen,
And would not ask."
VERY L \nGE. One ha\ ing Bene\'. vc1·y large, has great
sympathy for the sufferings and wants of mankind; takes
great delight in relim·ing distre~s and rendering assistance
to the destitute; with average Acquis. and Caution, and
large Hope, will dispense favors and blessings with a lib-
eral hand, and when objects of pity present themsehes
and plead for help, will have an almost uncontrollable
desire to relieve their wants, nnd will often sacrifice pri-
vate interest to benefit other~; with large, or very large
Acquis., \\ill not often be llbcral with money, and on this
account may by some, be called parsimonious, but will
often do much good by attending personally to the wants
of the sick and needy, which a:ssistance is, in many cases,
preferable to money.
LARGE, has much benevolent feeling, and a strong
desire for the happiness of others; takes pleasure in ad-
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. 121
tive intellect, the constructive talent has been pro~tressinl't
from thP. moment of its first exercise, and from the rud::
nes~ of the articles constructed, to the present time, and
to the high standard of mechanical ability which blesses
the world. To Constructiveness chiefly, are we indebted
for alJ those comforts and conveniences of life, which
arc either manufactured, or produced by labor. If food
grew spontaneoUI:;ly, or without culture, this class of com·
forts would be an exception to this indebtedness; hut
while manufactured implements of husbandry, nn<l skill
to use them arc required of Constructiveness, this faculty
mu5t lie at the root of all the conveniences, and moFt of
the comforts of lite. A mnn with ordinary Constructi,·e-
nc:ss, may make a decent agriculturist, but one with a
large endowment of it, will be a fnr better one, ~o f.u as
the use of tools is concerned. Cmcinnatus, it is true,
could m:mage to till the soil with his crooked stick or
rude wooden plow, but it must have required some me-
chauical talent, as well as great patience, to do good work
with so bad an implement. Constructireness, has given
to the world something in its stead which would have been
a pleasing uoon to the father of agriculture. Bnt, man-
ufacturing, building, &c., come more directly under the
head of Constructiveness. 1f we compare the rucle mud
cot, with the stately mansion; the com·enient furniture,
with the rough contrivances of savage life; the flouring
mill, with the ancient corn-bruising apparatus; the rough
skins of beasts, with the delicate as well as substantial
fabrics for clothing, we can obtain a faint conception of
the value of this faculty. But when we take a more ex-
tended view, and see cities rise as by magic, and the
snowy cam·ass from a thousand ships flung to the breeze,
to waft the wealth of the world to the lap of industry;
when the ocean is navigated by steam, and dist::mt conti-
nents become neighbors; and the fiery engine. with its_,
burden of life ann wealth, bisects a continent, and sea
meets ~ea by tl1is annihilation of time and ~p:tcc, now
rushing with the fleetness ofthought through the tunneled
base of lofty mountains anti over rivers; when kingdom
is united to kingdom, and state hound to state with bands
of iron, and distant provinces made near neighoors, and
11
J20 CONSTRUCTIVENESL
Acquis ant) Self-Esteem, wiJ1 be cruel, revengeful, mi•
serly, self-confident and overbearing.
VERY SMALL, is destitute of sympathy, kindness and
pity ; docs not desire the happiness of others, and lacks
mildness of disposition; with very large Adhes., will man-
ifest strong attachmeut to relations; with Philo., to child-
ren, but will lack general kindness; with Acquis., Com-
hat. and Destruct. large or very large, and Caus., Compar.,
Event., Consci., Caution and Ven. moderate or smaJI,
will be more like a brute than a human being, and have
no hesitation in committing the most heinous crimes.
Species 111. SEMI-INTELLEcTuAL SENTIMENTs.
The office of the-.e f 1cult ies is to elevate and refine
the feelings and improve the condition of man, to unfold
the be:mties of nlture, aud adapt them to his purposes
and happiuess.
20. CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
Construction in grnrral, tltc foundation of allmecllanics,
tlte pow.:r to manufadure.
Locat('d forw1rd of Acquisiti venec;~, on the temples,
upward and backward of the external angl~ of the eyes.
1'\' ~en large, the head is broad and swells out at this
regaon.
Aoo\PTATJON. 'Vhile the hnppincss, indeed the very
cxi~t(ncc of man, requirrs that he should ha,·c clothiug,
houses, ngricultural irnplcntcnts, &c., the 11~ce:-siry for a
mechauical tal<'llt will rcmaiu. To ad<lfH the nature of
man to this cond.tiou, with powN to supply his natural
waul~. the At11 hor of hi;-; hci112 has cudowed him with a
di~tincl prinnry power, the office of which i!', to mauu-
f:lclnre, to budd aud con-.;truct. No sooner did our first
parf>nts fincl them:-('lves in want, than ConstructiY('ness
Wa'i c:tlled upon to supply it. By it~ comhin:~tiou with
the tlevelopment and exerc:sc of the pcrccpti\'C aud reflcc-
nENEVOLENCE. 119
ministering relief to those who are in want; with large
Appro. and Acquis., and average Consci., will not give
liberally for any benevolent object, unless the praise of
men be thereby gained; with large Adhes., will be very
kind and obliging to relatives and friends, and take de-
light in witnessing their prosperity and advancing their
interests; with large Combat., will be brave, humane and
generous, and will not only feel for the sufferings of oth-
ers, but Howard like, visit in person the scenes of dis-
tress and suffering, and administer relief. With average
Acquis. and Caution, and large Adhes. and Hope, wil1
be free to lend money without good security, and be likely
to make himself poor, by acts of liberality and kindness.
FuLL, has a good share of kind and benevolent feeling;
desires that others should be happy, and will sometimes
sacnfice private interest to benefit the public; with large
Acquis. and Caution, will be rather parsimonious; with
large Hope, Appro. and Self-Esteem, and full Acquis. and
Caution, will be liberal and kiud to the needy and desti-
tute, 2nd with moderate Combat. and Destruct. added,
wiJJ have many friends.
AvERAGE, manifests on some occasions a good share
of kind and tender feeling for the miseries of others, and
has some emotions of sympathy for persons in distress;
with large Combat., Destruct. and Hope, and full Acquis.,
will show acts of ldndness by attending personally to the
wants of the sick; with Jarge Acquis. and Self-Esteem,
and very large Caution, and small Hope, will be penuri-
ous, and seldom give any thing for the support of benev-
olent .institutions, or to relieve the distresses of the poor.
1\IooERATE, is not much affected by the sufferings and
miseries of mankind; may give his services, but will
curse those who ask for cash; with large Appro., wiJJ
sometimes be liberal for the purpose of being called
benevolent.
SMALL, is seldom kind to the sick or the needy; pays
no regard to the sufferings ofothers, with large Destruct.,
122 CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
a healthful feeling of common interest and common sym-
pathy begotten between distant climes and otherwise
discordant interests; wheu factory roars to factory and the
hum of bee-like industry is manufacturing, exchauging,
and disseminating the comforts and conveniences of civ-
ilization ; and when theprintingpress, that brilliant )umi·
nary of knowledge, is shedding light, and warmth, and
vigor upon the intellectual and moral world, and we dis-
cover that these mighty works, with all their b}es~rngs,
have their basis in man's constructing talent, we shall ::;ee
the wisdom and goodness of our great Architect, in im-
parting so useful and indispensable a faculty. The pow-
er to build is imparted by a distinct primary faculty, be-
cause :somE> persons, with little or no in:::.truction, become
eminent as mechanic~, and others, with the best of teach-
ing are but bunglers at the best; while at the same time
the latter may have as much, or eYen more understanding
or rea~oning power than the former. Constrnctivl'ness
and CnnsaJity, are the originating, contri\·ing, invent-
ing f<!culties; but, the executive mechat1ic is greafty
aided in the use of tool~ by Form, Size, VJeighr, Order,
Loca.iity, Imitation and Icleahty. Great men ha,·e been
known to brenk awnv from the Court of nobles to some
retired room, to iudu.lgc their passion for mechanic:;;, and
we know a clergyman !n Ma~s., who has a private shop
where he anH1::5e:s himself in mechanical operations, and
whose secluded vigds hnve gi,•en to the \rorld sereral
intricate and nduable inventions, not only mo::;t admira-
bly contrived, but ncatl} executed. He is an untaught
genius, and takes this course, for the real pleasure 1hat
such pastime affords. 'Ve have noticed that the North
American Indians have the organ small, which ht~rmo­
nizes with the rndeness of their constructing nbility. Civ-
lliza.tion, it is believed, would de,·elop the faculty in the
course of a few centurieR, and place them upon an eleva-
tion in this respect, equal to other nations.
VERY LAnGr. One having Construct. very large, hns
an extraordinary talent to contr-ive and design ; intuitive-
ly detect:s error in things which are made, and with large
rea:soning and perceptive organs, Concent. and Imitat.,
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. 123
is capable of becomincr a mechanic of the first order; is
. .,
pa~s10nntcly fond of viewincr curious machinery, increnious ·
. 0 0
mvention:;. and mechanical operations; is possessed of
nn inventive mind, and with large Hope and Appro., and
full Marvrl., will wander in the intricate mazes of inven·
tion, perhaps try to invent a prrpetual molion; will be
enterpri!:iing as a mechanic, and make improvements in
machinery, toolsf &c.
LAtum, has ::1 strong theoretical mechanical talent,
ingenuity iu building, altering, repairing, &c., and read-
ily <.lbco\'crs the mechanical u!'es to which things may
he applied~ and uuderst.auds the mechanical powers and
force.,, well; with large Comp., Caus., I mitat., Form
Hi ze, \Veight, Local. and Ideal., wiU be qualified for
an architcrt, engineer or master mechanic, for drawing
plans, tnaliing patterns, and working after those patterns.
Construct. and Caus., design the things to be made,
while other fitculties giv.e the a.bil ity to carry out, execute,
and practirallr appJy the mechnnicaJ principles. Form,
gi,·es !Shape; Stze, the proper dimensions and proportion;
'Veigbt, momentum aucl n•locity; Order, system of ar.-
rangemeut; and Ideal. gives taste to finish 1he whole with
peculiar elegance. \Vithout a good development of the
pereeptircs, no person will be a good executive mechanic,
cren with large Con":Struct.; and without a large and ncti,·e
brUJin. and strong propelling pO\H'rs, few, if auy, wiJI rise
to distiuctiou and influence in the mechanical world.
FuLL, has a good share of mecJ1:mical skill and inge-
nuity; is fond nf mechanic,1l operations; will try to con~
tri\'C sQmc better way, some l!tbor-saving process to
accompli~h end::l; takes an in1ere!!.t in v·iewiug machinery~
and improremeuts in mechanism, and with large lmitat.
.no(l pcrccptt\'e organs, \\ iJl m:.1ke a good practical me.
chanic, but will cxcctilt better than plan.
A \'ER.H~ E, is not a great original inventor; may fmprove LL_
machinerr, st)les, fashions, &c., alreadJ exil:iting; should 7-
ehoose srmlc trade or occupation, requiring but little
inrenti\'C talent. With large Hope~ Appro. and Acquis.,
124 JD'EALITY.
may try to aive to the world something gTcat, but with
• Caus. only
0
full, will fail to design and complete any
thina of much importance; with large Imitat., Form and
Size~ and good instruction, will be able to succeed well
in the less difficult trades, but wiJJ not, Fulton-like, strike
beyond the beaten track and win immortality.
MoDERATE, is not an independent mechanic ; will re·
quire a plan, draft, or pattern to work by; with ,-ery
large Individ. and Imitat., will copy well, and do what
he sees done; will understand simple machinery, or
(when clearly explaineri) the more complicated, )et can-
not, unassisted, trace intricate machinery to its laboring
point, or readily adapt uew mechanical arrangements to
accomplish the same end, but use the old tools ant! follow
the old way; may invent some simple thing, or make
slight improvements, but fail on large, original, nice ope-
rations, indeed will nerer make an attempt, unless Self,
Estee1n be too large. 'Yith large ImitaL, Form and
Size, will be able to learn the exeeutire branch of trades,
and succeed well in ordinarJ' business, but with only aver-
age lmitat_, will be a bungler when out of the beaten track.
Si.\IALL, will never be a ·leacler in mechanical opera...
tions; may learn to attend machinery, but be a poor hand
to keep it in repair; with large Imitat. and perceptive
organs, may work with a pattern, but not without one,
and will be confined to one way of doing things.
VERY S)IALL, is rude ill constructing and unskilful m
the use oftools.
~1. IDEALITY .
Imagination; sense of tl1e pc1ject, n·quisilt, bea~tliful.
ideal; the foundation ofgood taste.
Located above ConstructirenP.ss, backward and joinina
Mirthfulness, and outward of Imitation and 1\Jarvellou;
ness. When large, the sides of the upper part of the
hendJ present a great fulrwss and wirltl~,
lDE..~Ll'l'Y• 125
.t\n,\l'TATtON. In all the works of God, there is a per-
f(:ct1nn, n harmony aud beauty, which cnunot fail to
-charrn nnd capti'latc every wcH IJalance<l rnind. It is
exhibited irt all that shine:::. ahore, and all that blooms
around us. I,oetry is the perfection of lnTJ!rmtcre; Lut
this faculty is not confined in its ntani r.estatio~1s ~o a lore
ofpoetr) merely. All the lJeauty and perfection in na-
ture or art, \\'here taste, elegance nnd symmetry are con-
ccruc<.l, arc lon.
'<i and priz('(l maiuly uy this faculty. It
gircs t:1lent for judging, and delight in ri~wing, a perfect
tatue, an exqui~itc p:tinting or cngra,·ing, or a finic;;hed
temple. It imparts taste in c.Jre~s, furniture, &c., as v·eJl
as polish to lnuguage and manners. It gi,·cs to the me-
chanic, a peculiar elegance t{) the finish of his efforts, as
well as birth to those masterpieces of poetical and orator-
ical eloquence, which hare stamped with immortality, the
\\.'ritings of Horner, Shak..pearc, l\1ilton, Chalmers, Pat-
rick Henry, nud mnny other..;. lt directed thP. chisel of
Cnnora, and the pencil of RnphaeJ and \Vest; and the
e:une fHculry gives a lore for their productions, without
which, the rudest dforts of savage nntion!' would find
Clfll<ll fa\'or. It imparts to the musician the pow<>r to
throw into lzis performances, that soul of hnrmony, that
melting melody which carries the infatuated listener
ubore the ~oiJer rt'alities of life, to mingle with the
sernphic choir of bliss. It mount!:> to nd111irc the glowing
beauties of the ethereal world; or the rich pencilings of
departing sunlight upon the fleecy cloud, nnd then stoops
to regale itself amid the beauties of the flowery carpet
of earth; the brilliaut plumage of its ~ongsters; the sing-
ing brook ; the mirror lake, or the sih·ery sea.
VERY LARGE. One having Jde~l. very large, has the
keenest relish for the beautiful and perfect 10 uature or
art; real refin~ment of taste and feeling, and dwells in
the regions of fancy and romance. When combined with
large Lang., Eveut., Cam;., Comp., ComLat. aucl Appro.,
will Le an orator whose bcnuty, copiousness aud strength
of cxpres~ion will command universal admiration. \Vith
large soci:tl organs, and •
'' irth. added, will he highly
poh~hetl a~ a writer, either ofprosc or poetry, and mani-
u•
126 IDEALITY.
fest an ense and e]P.gance of manner and conversation,
which cannot fail to win affection and admiration. "'ith
only average re:twning organs, large Appro., and moder-
ate Caution, will di~like ~hat which is not romantic, and
necrlccl the more solid and useful, for the gauclv and
sh;wy, alike in language, articles of dress, fornitur~ and
equipage, and hare much more taste than judgment.
LARGE, has an active fanr.y ; is fond of the elegant, the
fini:shed and ornamental, of poetry, eloquencf?, polite lit-
erature, the fine arts, &c. \Vith large Color, Form,
Size, Local. and Order, will admire painting~, flowers,
statuary, land~cape views, either natural or artificial;
with large Lang., Event., Comp., Appro. and Hope ad-
ded, the person will use a glowing, elevated, metaphorical
style of ~peaking or writing; with Jnrge Atlhes. and
Amat. added, will endow the object of Jove with super-
human refinement of qualities, and nerer admire one
who is not elegant in figure anrl manners, and like Burns
and others, will celebrate the itlol of the soul, in ecstatic
song. As a mechanic, will desire to follow some trade,
embracing elegaLJcc of workmanship, and true taste and
finish.
I•'uLL, has good taste, but will not sacrifice e,·ery thing
el~c to beauty and refinement; values the beautiful, in
connection with the useful; regards poetry and eloquence,
as well for its strength of thought and correctness of ar-
gumen.t, as for its eleP;ance of expr~ssion. \Vith ]arge
reasonmg and perceptl\:e organs, will he disgusted with
gorgeous eloquence,. ex.ccpt as a \'chicle of sound argu-
mcut and correct pnnc1ple.
AvcR.WE, is temperately fond of poetry, oratory, cle-4-
gance and beauty, hut is influenced on this subject by
other faculties. \Vith strong rea~ouing faculties, wi1l Le
pleased, if elegance nnd beauty of expression, are com-
bined with ,·igor and weight of thought, but will prefer
the latter to the f<>rrncr when they cannot Le combined;
add large Event., and as n ~peakcr or hearer, will prefer
straight forward, con\'incing matter-of-fact, to the beau-
SUDLIMITY. 127
ties of diction, yet choose to combine both, the former,
always taking precedence.
MonERATE, prefers durnbility to elegance; a plain, to
a gorgeous style of utterance; values poc·try mainly for
the ::-trength of thought, love, dc\'otion, or the truth which
it expre::.ses, and generally surrenders ornament for util-
ity. If Appro. and lmita.t. be very large, rnny seek for
show and splendor in dress, furniture, &c., but will lack
that refined taste in their arrangement which imparts
beauty; may load the person with finery, nnd the language
with swelling words, but both will be ill timed, deficient
in good taste, and fail to please those who hare the crgan
large.
S)t ALt., i5 so deficient in this sentiment as to be coarse
. and unadorned in expression, and common place in all
things. \Vith large Caus., will prefer solid logic to rhet·
oric, and often feel disgu:sted with and reject, 1hat which
is presented in glowing languagt:>; cannot be a popular
orator, but will be stiff, dry and barren in style, though
the mallc>r may be strnng and sonnd; with large Acquis.
.
aud Self-Esteem, and only average Appro., will spcud
nothincr for show or taste, and censure those who do.
0 .
VERY 8:\t.-\.LL, is blind to the world of beauty, which
"Gio'\\"s in the stars, and blossoms in the trees;''
Jacks that sweet string in the soul, that echoes to the
harmoay and beauty of nature and art; is harsh, coarse
and vulgar in every thing: may IO\'e ardently and worship
sincerely, or thunder i11 the pulpit or forum, but every
performa11ce will resemble the rough block of marble
more titan the polisl11~d statue.
22. SUBLil\IITY.
1.-ove of l11c 1.wst, lite grand, the magnijir:cnt.
Sublimity is lor.ated between
directly above Acqui:)itivencss.
from the openings of the ears,
Ideality and Caution,
Draw a \'Crtical line
and it will bisect this
128 SU8LD11TY,
orgnn, which, wh<>n large, gh•es width to the upper and
lateral portions of the head.
ADAPTATION. It has been supposed by f:Ome phrenol..
O!!ists as well as metaphysicians, that the I(HC of the beau-
tiful and suhlirl"le, is the result of thP- same faculty; hut,
if we consider the nature of these emotiOn!', a vast differ-
ence will be discovered. Ideality, recognizes the per.
feet, the exqui~Jte aud beautiful; it delights to see
<•The desert blossom as the rose;"
to Ji~ten to the sweet minstrel~y of nature; is enehanted
with the perfection of the rainbow, the glittering galaxy,
the pearly dew drop, the rose, the pink and violet. Sub-
limity s(}ars to the 'ast and grand in the mighty machin-
ery of the universe; it <.lelights to ride upon the wings of
the wind, that
" take the ruffian billows by the top,
Curling their monstrous head~, and hanging them
\Vith deafening clamors in the slippery cloud:.."
It gazes with delight upon the grotesque, the rude and
truly natural. The chilly darkness before an approach-
ing tempest, its deep, dtstant murmurin,g; the coaatempla-
tion of eternity and illimitable space, all furnish food for
this faculty. Sublimity leads its votary to the loftiest
cliff of some craggy mountain to gaze upon the grand
battle-field of the elements, n·hen, from beueath his feet,
the white capped mountain-waves leap from their ocean-
bed, and dance among the clouc.ls. mocking the vi\•id
lightning that streams abont their hea<.ls, aud singing to
the pealing thunder thnt ro11s across their dark blue bo-
soms, the awful music ofthe storm. Indeed, this faculty
will qnaff the boiling flames of the Volcano, and swallow
bello·.•:ing N11gara at a draught. SutJlimity and Ideality
actina toaether, admire tlte !!rand anrl tJeautiful in com~
"::) 0 .....
biuation. Sublimity, labors up the steep asceut, while
Ideality admires the leaping rill, or the lone witd flower
that blooms benenth some jutting crag. The writinas of
Homer, Shal<spearc, .l\1 ilton, Pope, Byron, Pollok="and
many others, abound with examples of the sublime, and
nUTATION. 131
23. IMITATION.
Ability to copy and mnkr. aftrr a pattern, pozncr uf imi-
fatil}g lite manners and gestures of ot!tcrs.
This organ is Joc.nted on each side of Benevolence~
nnu llCXl forward of J\larveJiou~mess.
AoAPT,\TION. 1\Ian is an imitati,·e bein,., and much
0 •
that he knows, isJearned by copying others. This i~ an
acti\'C faculty, and has much to do with the oul\\'ard
actions of maukind. Adults arc commanded in Iloly
writ not only to shun evil but to set a good P.xample to
those who arc to imbibe and reflect their c:olldllct and
charactC!r; indeed every dtctate of reason proclaim~ the
utility of lrnil:-.tion, and if the model be correct, their
full and lawl"ul ~cope is gi\'en for the exerci:::c oft he
faculty, which ::
dW<l) s tends to Yirt uc and happiur.ss; Lut
if the cxarnple is bad, Imitation in the learner with C'(lual
acti~ity and fidelity to the origiual, like a mirror, rcfle.cts
back tltc haggard fenturcs of the copy, and misery to the
unfortunate pupil is the rc~lllt. Purents and tcacl1ers
thcr«!f<Hc, sl1oulu he- panicubHiy caref"ul uot to say or do
any thing in the pre:--ence of children and youth which
has a tendency to penc1 t tire rniud and gi\'e a \Hong bias
to the .tffecLinn~, or which, if i~nitated, will lead to immoral
conduct. Young persons frequently imitate the 'ices of
other~, anti thu~ bring upon thP.mselres rcmor:-.e and
!-oh:une. For example, a young man of good intel1ect and
superior cuuc·ttion is profane. His associates, knowing
that ltc has splendid talents, think it manly to illlitate his
\'ices and thu:-; learn to lJc profane themselves. A young
man, occnpying such a position, hy following vicio11s prac-
tice::-. m1y, and often does induce many of his associates to
imitalf' his evil habits, anti forsake the paths of rectitude
and \"irtlle. Tho~e who are, or \\"ish to be patterns to
society, for religion, virtue, morality, temperance, &c.,
:--hoald he very careful not to set an example which, if
imitated h_v the yonng, will h:we a tendP.ncy to lead them
a:.;tray. If the intellect be weak, this organ lends to a
Sl!rvilc imitation of the f11.shions, and uo matter how
130 SUBLIMITY.
upon the great Architect ot Nature, as a God of power
and glory. , With larg.e Local. and Caus., will love, and
succeed well in the study of Astronomy. If Caution be
large, will have :t sense of danger in the storm, yet love
to hear the crashing thuntlerbolt when the danger is past;
with large Ideal. and Construct., will view the towering
domes of a magnificent edifice with extreme pleasure.
FuLL, enjoys the grandeur of nature and art, out is
not p1ssionately fond of the wdd and mnjestic. If Ideal.
be full or large, will relish mountain scenery, and delight
to contemplate the bea11tiful vale beneath; with large
Color and Order added, will have a lively taste for the
diversified landscape emhracing hills, vaiPs, winding
streams, villas and lofty mountams in the b2.ck ground.
As n speaker or hearer, will he pleased with strength,
vigor and beauty of expression, uow rising to cousult the
sublimity of nature, then sto0ping to the tender, there-
fine<.! and beautifuL
AvF.R.\GE, is not enraptured with suhlime emotions in
viewi11g the objects de~cribed under Sub. large, and
uses but little effort to vistt such scenery. If Destruct.
and Fmn. be large, ancl C:1ution only average, wiJI not
be highly delighted or intimidated, or feel vi\·td emotions
in view of the Ruhlime. 'Vith large Ideal., will prefer
the beauty to the grandeur of the world.
MoDERATE, has an obtuse conception of the sublimity
of nature. or art, ami prefers the u~eful and arable, to the
awful. \Vith large Ideal., will admire the tasteful and
exqt~isite, to the exclu:'ion of the va~t, and with large
Lang. added, will write or speak with ease and ele-
gJnce, rather than power, and prefer poetry whose soft
and rl11lcet strain is more hke the gnrgling stream than
the thundering waterfall.
s~HLL OR VERY 8:\IALL, is wanting in cnpacity to en-
joy any thing which is sublime, and riews descriptions of
that character, as mere bombast,
-
SUBLII\UTY. 129
beautiful, at sometimes blended, at others, separate and
distinct. The following shows an activity of both organs.
Pleasant Wf'rc many scenes, but most to me
The solitude of vast extent, untoucJJed
lly hand of art, where nature sowed, herself,
And rcap~d her crops ;-whose garments were the clouds;
\Vhose mmstrels, brooks; whose lamps, the moon and stars;
\Vhose organ choir, the voice of many waters;
\Vhosc banquets, morning dews; whose heroes, "torms;
\Vhose warriors, mighty winds; w1wse lovers, flowers;
\Vhose orators, the thunderbolts of God ;
\Vhosc palaces, the everlasting hills;
\:Vhose ceiling, heaven's unfathotntlble blue;
And from who.~e rocky turrets battled high,
Prospect immense spread out on all sides round;
Lost now uotwcen the well<in and tl1e main,
Now walled with hill::. that slept a!Jove the storm.
PoLLOK.
Vertv LA.ttGE. One having Sublimity very large, is
passionately fond of viewing or contemplating any grand
or subl1me phenomenon in nature, the warring elements,
an awful cascade, Joud crashing thunder, the dashing,
roaring ocean-waves, a rugged rocl\-bound coast when
lashed by foamiug surf, the loftiest mountain's ragged
crest, and views any thing wild, and snbl ime, with fef'l-
ings of the highest ecstacy, and rcat.1s or hears with the
liveliest emotions, that poetry, or orntory which describes
such pheuomena. One haring SulJ. lery large, com-
bined with large IdeaL, Caus , Comp., Event. and Lang.,
joined with large Combat., Firm., Destruct., Hope and
1\Iurrcl., will uo an orator of the highest order, transport
the hearer with high-wrought uursts of commanding elo-
quence, arouse a tempest ofpassion and conttol it nl wilL
Such orators were Demosthenes, Cicero, Chatham, Fox
and H enry, and the writings of Homer, Milton Shaks-
peare, Byron and a few living poets and orators, strike
the same high-toned string in the human mind.
b LARGE, admires speakers or authors, who manifest
energy, strength and fire, in their eloquence; enjoys
mountain scenery; contemplates with tlelight, the uni..
rcr:;e of worlds rolling in broad immensity, and reflects
132 IMITATION
unbecoming, or ridiculous the style may be, it will be
followed by auch mimls, notwithstanding the admonitions
of those who are favored with good sen:se. Imitation
assists the mechanic and the artist, and enRhlt:s one to
copy the works of others. Many mechanics are indebted
to this organ for their success, when they have but little
Constructiveness. It enables the actor and the orator to
make an impression on the mincls of their auditors by
means of gesticulations, whereby the feelings and pas-
sions are expressed by action, as well as word~. The
• deaf and duml>, communicate by signs, which is mainly
done by this faculty, and their feelings are expressed
with a reality and vivjduess rarely equaled by the most
pathetic oral language.
VERY LARGE. One having Imitat. very large, has very
great imitative powers, and readily copi<'s the manners
and gestures of others; can act out the feelings, ancl make
a person know, from the natural language of the organs,
or expression of countenance, without s(lying a word, the
ideas wished to be conveyed; with large Combat., De-
struct., Secret. and a good intellect, wiiJ have a theatrical
talent; with lnrge Construct., Form and Size, will be
capable of excelling in chirography and mechanics.
L.~RGE, has a natural talent to work after a pattern, :md
can easily imitate the style and manner of others; with
moderate Caution, and large Combat.: Destruct. and
Mirth. will make many gestures when talking; with large
Comp., E,·ent. anu Lang. adtled, will, in relating anec- ,
dotes, tell them in such a manner as to excite laughter and '-'(;;
gain the attention of the hearer; with Form, Size, Con-
struct. ancl Ideal. large, will have the ability to exc~l in
sketching and drawing, and with large Color adcled, can
succeed well in painting; with Tune large, will imitate
the bro<Tue of the Irish, Dutch, Scotch, Freuch, &c.,
and thc
0
natural language of various beasts.
FuLL, does many things by imitation ; can copy and
make after a pattern tolerably well, and manifests a fair
share of imitative taleut; with full Construct., and large,
MIRTHFULNESS. 133
or very large Form and Size, will succeed well as a me-
chanic, and work with, or without a pattern; but with
those organs moderate or small, will not succeed in any
trade which rC<]Uires ingenuity and skilL
AvrmAcE, has some, but not great ability to imitate,
copy, or make after a pattern; in relatinc:r stories, will he
• original in manner; with Jarc:re Combat., and moderate
• 0
CautJOn, may m:tke some gestures, but they will be made
in a f'tyle peculiar to scif; with a\·erage Mirth., may get
credit among the lower classes for wit, when in reality
it is nothing but oddity.
.1\IooERATE, is not ski!ful in working from patterns; has
but little power to imitate the manners or gestures of
others; has a mode of relating anecdotes, different from
any body else; with large Combat. and full Mirth., and
a strong and well cu_ltivated intellect, will, as a public
speaker, gain the atteution of auditors by the boldness,
singularity, and oddity of manner and expression, and
please a popular as!)eml>ly.
S~IALL, takes no delight in Imitating the manners of
other~: has no skill in copying; is original in action, ges-
ture and manner; and if a good mechanic, will be in-
debted to Construct., Form, Size, &c., for success.
VEnY 8".\LL, is averse to any thing which requires a
talent to imitate the works or manners of others; has no
ability to copy; still, with very large Construct., Form
and Size, will succeed wcJJ as a mechanic, and in some
trades be able to excel.
24. MIRTHFULNESS.
ll'it, facetiousness, perception of tile ludicrous and incon-
gruous.
This organ is situated outward from Causality, and
when large, gi\·es a fulness to the outer angles of the
Ujlper portion of the forehead.
12
134 MIRTHFULNESS·
AoAP'rATIO:'i. That then! is an innate faculty in the
human mind which inclines man to indulge in mirth,
and leads ltim to judge of the congruity or incongruity
of arguments, is a fact, the truth of which no one wtio
has associated with all classes of persons, will attempt to
deny. Phrenologists hold that Mirthfulness is the organ
which imp1rts this facnlty to man. It is an essential
element of a cheerful disposition, and is therefore very
useful. Religionists, who are wePI acquainted with the
various worktngs of the human mind, and the good effect
of cheerfulness: and the bad effect of melanchiJly npon
the health and hnppiness of it.dividuals, approve of the
legitimate manife:station of this facult). Many seem to
imagine that those who make a profession of religion,
should always be sedate and grare; and a professor,
having a feeble endowment of this faculty, would be
sedate and appear melancholy, and thus throw a gloom
on religion, and also condemn those as hypocrites who
are naturally gay aud mirthful. Such persous are uot fit
judges of the propriety or impropriety of the expressions
of mirth, inasmuch as they are deficient in the organ
which gives rise to surh feelings. They are too gra\'e
and gloomy 111 their intcrc0urse with the worid, and thus
give an idea to the youn~~~ that to be religious, is to be mel-
ancholy. There are some professors of religion who are
too mirthful and gay, and sometimes ridicule or speak
lightly orsolemn things, anrl their conduct in this respect
has a bad influence upon many minds, and leads the
opposers oi religion to say that afl who profess christi-
anity are hypocrites. These are the two extremes, and
are abu~es of 1\1 i1 thfulnes:). It is as necessary, therefore,
in this, as in any of the other organs, to distinguish
between its use and abuse. .1\lany expres~ions excite
Mirthfulness, whic,h contain no genuine wit, and persons
arc often calleel \\ itty, whose remarks contain nothing
but ocid1ty or incongruity, which combmcrl, perhaps with
a peculiar mode of expression, is a sufficient cause for
laughter. Any class of organs may be excited, and cause
a person to smile, hut the outward manifestation must
be through 1\lirthfnlness. A little girl \\'ith large .Appro-
bativencss will smile, when told that she has a very pretty
MIRTHFULNESS. 135
dress. A Clergyman, with a high endowment of.the
moral organs, auu naturally of a sedate turn of mand,
when addressing his hearers on some favorite topic, smiles
involuntarily, and those who hear him smile in return.
Mirthfulues is excited in these cases, but there is nothing
boisterous in its manifestations; hence it is justifiable.
A man distinguished for vulgarity, having a predominance
of the animal propensities, relates his anecdotes in a
blunt~ rough and singular manner, nnd though not accom-
panied with any real wit, causes much laughter, which is
expressed iu a noisy, boisterous manner. Mirthfulues~
in this case is .excited, and it is also abusecf. The organ
•.vas large in Sterne, Swift, Franklin, and several who
mjght be named, and 1l1eir writings abound with wit.
VERY LAtHa':. One ltavmg Mirth. ve1·y large, will be
remarkably fonrl of wit and humor; views e,·ery thing in
a ludicrous light, and is highJy pleased with mirthful
sturies ; with large Lang. and Event., will recoJiect, and
relate many witty anecdotes; with large, or very large
Comt~at., DE:stncct., Secret. and Hope, aud moderate Cau-
tion addetl, would succeed well as a comic actor ; be for-
cible, sarcastic and severe in his mode of expression, and
'!cry fond of making people laugh by his witty remarks.
L.\RGE, is much inclined to view things in a Iudici'Ous
Jight, and turn passing incidents iuto ridicule; often feels
an irrepressiole rlisposit1on to Jaugh when and \\·here it
would be 4mproper to do it, enjoys mirthful company
remarkably well, and is capable of making much sport,
with very large Destruct., good intellect and average
Benev. and Consci., will be \'ery sarcastic and severe in
argument; and with large Secret. adde.d, ·will gi,·e many
"~ly jokes," and still appear very sober ; with \'ery large
Cans. and Comp., aud average Lang. and E\·ent. will, ns
a writer, be humorous, aud often speak in su~h a manner
a.s to please the mirthful, and at the same time cotney
50JHC important itlca; in argument will h<>ld up an oppo-
cent to ridicule; with \•ery large Caution, may be too
r-node:--t to give a joke till after the proper time; but with
th.." same organs average, will l>e a ready wit; with
136 MIRTHFULNESS.
Caution very Jarge, and Hope moderate, will manifest
opposite traits ofcharacter, being sometimes gloomy, and
at other times, very gay and mirthful.
J- FuLL, is quite fond of the 1udicrous. and finds uifficulty
in refraining from the use of mirthful expressions when
in company with those who are quick at repartee; with
L ang. and the organs of the perceptive intellect generally
smaJJ, will not be distinguished for quick sallies of wit;
but will sometimes give a "dry joke/' which will be
directly to the point; with large Comp., A mat., Combat.,
Destruct. and Aliment., and moderate Ven., Consci,
Ideal. anc.l Caus., will be vulgar, coArse and harsh in his
witticisms; make many obscene and witty comparisons;
and tell falsehoods, if by so doing some one can be held
up to ridicule, and thereby cause laughter and merriment.
A VERACE, is rather mirthful, and fond of making sport, 4
but has not a keen perception of the ludicrous; likes a
good joke weJl, but is not always ready to gi\-e one; with
moderate, or small lmitat., and large Combat., Lang.
and Cornp., wm say many odd things which will make
sport and pass among Borne persons for real wit.
MoDERATE, is rather sedate, and not apt to speak in
jest, or disposed to view things in a. ludicrous light; with
Jarge Hope, and moderate Caution, wil1 be cheerful, but
not witty or fond of laughter; \Vith on]y <n>erage Caus.
and Comp., and largo Appro., will be much displeased
if a joke is gi1·en at hls expense, and \\'ith Jarge Corn bat.
added; will manifest a high degree of temper when ridi-
culed, and from this fact, many who have large .Mirth.,
will take delight in teasing him, for the purpose of grati-
fying their own fun making disposition.
SMAI,L, has a soLer turn of mind; is displeased with
those who make sport out of every passing incident, and
will not succeed in attempting to gi,·e jokes; with very
large Appro., will shrink under the keen sting of ridicule,
and be angry with those who indulge sportive raillery
against him; with large Combat., Destruct. and Self..
l:-JT£LI.ECTUAL FACULTIES. 137
E~tcem added, will be likely to resort to blows when
ridiculed.
V1mY SliTALI,, hns a wnnt of perceiving the ludicrou::;,
and i~ dP.-.titute of lllirthful feeling; with large Con~ci.,
Ven. and Caution, awl tnodcra.te Hope, will be very gra\e,
gloomy and sedate, and be poor company for the mirthful .
INTELLECTUAL F.ACULTIES.
These faculties observe phPnomena, nnd reason upou
the whole physical and mctophysical world, and consti-
tute what is calted intdlctt, unden;tanding or Judgment, in
cnntracii~t inctiou from the feeling or emouous produced
Ly the other f:tcultics; and serve to enl1ghten and <.lir~ct
the feelings. They impart that thirst for informntion,
that clc!'ire to know, that power to obserre, remember,
clas~i t)· nnd reason, which makes man an intelligent r~r:d
ProO'res~i ~·c l>ein0',
t;) t;)
Qtl. New llotlandcr. 21. Raphael.
n('~ion, ao. II ltttt•llel't, Vt·r~ tleftclcnt.
11 11
2, Mural, " "
'' " 3, Animal, Yery l:ugc-•
Region, No.1, Very l;ugt-.
" " 2, " "
" " 3, ~~ '\
.A glanc·P, men~ly, is suffi.ricnt to shcnv tl1e great superiority of
the ccn:bral development of' RaphaLI, over that of the Nrw Hol-
lanclcr, nncl that the latter with ~nch :t brain, must pot'ses~ more
of the tmimn/,than of the mor;tl, intellectual and human qualitica.
''The natives of :\t·w Ilolland,'' s:tys Sir \Valter Scott,"artt
even at prn.:;cnt in tl~t· 't•ry lowc:1t scnle of humanity, and igno:
rant of I"!\' Pry art "hu·h <.·an {ldcl comfort or decency to human
!He. Thc:;c \ltlfhrtunatc savages use no doth~~~~, construct 0()
l2~
138 PERCEPTIVE FACULTIES.
cabins or hnts, and are ignorant even of the manner of chasing
animals, or catching fish, unless such of the latter as are left by
the tide, or which are found on the rocks."
Genus I. PERCEPTIVE F.ACULTIES.
These bring man into connection with the material
world, and serve as a medium of commu11 ication to the
other facnlties.
Species I. ExTERNAL SENsEs.
rrhey are SENSATION, I By these, the mind gains knowi-
SrGJIT, I edge of external things, and the
HEARING, ~internal faculties receive these
TAsTE, I materials and from them, form
SMELL. J ideas of surrounding objects.
SENSATION oR F.EELJNG. This faculty is manifested
through the agency of the nerves of sensation, which are
ramified throughout the whole physical system. Jt pro-
cures a knowledge of tangible objects, and while it min-
isters to m"n's safety and preservation, it also furnishes
to the internal faculties, the means of judging ofexternnl
things.
StGHT. By this faculty, the image and hue of external
things are com·eyed to the internal fac.ulties, which judge
of their form, size, color, number, order, &c. E}'e-sight
alone does not enable us to judge of the qualities of ob-
jects, for persons frequently possess the power of vision,
and fa.il in judging of Colors, as we1l as one or more of
the other quahties just enumerated, while imperfect ''ision
is often accompanied with acute Judgment respecting
those qualities.
HEARING. Hearing is manifested by the auditory
nerves, and is the medinm of receiving sounds which are
rendered discordant or harmonious, according to the
strength or activity of the other faculties. Good taste
and judgment of the tones of voice and musical harmonv
are not produced by hearing alone, else all who hea-r
PERCEPTIVE FACULTIES. 139
distinctly would be judges of the harmonv of sounds,
which i::; not the case.
TA'>TE. The gustatory faculty, acts upon substances
to produce the sensation of taste alone, and conveys that
scnsat ion to the other faculties, which form ideas of the
qualities of matter.
SMELL. This faculty is independent of sight nnd
makes us acquainted with distant objects from which
odorous particles emanate. No effort of the will, can
change these impression or reproduce them ; but the
idea~ of such objects are formed and recollected, by the
internal faculties. One valuable desirrn of this faculty,
c .
is to guard man and animals from unhealthy ohjects, and
acts as a monitor in the selection of proper food.
REMARKS.
It is supposed by some who object to phrenology, that
the tnlent to judge of color, form and size, is impnrted
r.cc/usivcly by the eye-sight, and that the seuscs ot'·tastr•
and smelt (as they relate to food aud eren the sense of
hunger) are referable to the stomatl1 as the direct prima-
ry seat of the feelings, antl also that the sen::;e of mu::..:ical
harmony depentls upon the simple faculty of hearing.
Now, it has IJcen decided that the olfactur!l an<l gustatory
nerves (which give the pO'v\'ers of smelling and tastin{!)
originate in, or communicate \\'ith, that part of tl1e mid-
dle lobe of the brain which is called Alimenlivr.m·ss, which
orrran imparts the appetite for food, nnd controls the
st;mach. The same may be inferred re:-;pecting the
optic nerves. The eye is an apparatus which enables
the facu lties or organs of colm·, form and size to obtain
knowledge, and through its agency t!U>y are stimulated
to activity; but when these organs are small, the facul-
ties are toeak, even with the keenest eye-sight. The eye
is the only medium of exerci~e of the organ of Color, aud
the main one of the organ of Size, and greatly aids Form ;
and we have noticed a marked deficiency of these organs
in the blind. \Ve examined a young man in Cuendish,
140 INDlVIDUALITY.
Vt., who has been blind with one eye from infancy, and
found the orgnns of Size and Color small, on the side of
his head opposite the defective eye and large on the other.
Moreover, persons with feeble hearing pow~r are good
judges of musical souucls; and those with <.leficient vision,
are acute judges of colors, and vice versa.
Species II. O.asERVING AND KNOWING FACULTIEs.
These faculties gather information, criticise surround-
ing objects, analyze the intrinsic qualities of material
substances, observe general phenomeua, impart correct
practical judgment, and collect materials for the use of
the higher faculties. These organs are located abore
and about the eyes, in the lower part of the forehead,
and when large, girc prominence and width to the heacl
at that re~ion. A receding forehead is produced by
large observing organ!';, and i~ favorable to superior pruc-
tical talent. Adams, Calhoun, Clay and Preston are
examples,
2'2. Pjtt. 23. Moore. 24. Sheriden. 2.3. Burritt. 26. Frankiin
2.'). Tndivid. ModPrnte. L'lrJtP, Lar~e.
33. Event. Very large, FmBII. J.ar~te.
37. Comp, Large. Verr large. Large.
v~ry large.
Lar~f.
FuJI.
Full.
Avert\!:('.
Ytry large~
25. INDIVIDUALITY.
Power ofobservatl'on, desire to see things as mere mdivid·
Jtal existences.
• INDIVIDUALITY• 141
This organ is located at the root Qf the nose, and when
large, gives width between the arches of the eyes, and
forward promincucc.
An.\PTATIO'\" 'Vherce\·er we open our eyes upon na-
ture or art, oldects, tltings and existences surround us.
The mountnm with it::, rocks, trees and rills; the vale
with its streams, parks and lawns, the village and city,
with their towers, mansions, churches and the ten thou-
sau,J articles of which they are composed, arc objects on
which this faculty is exercised in observing. Iudiridual-
ity takes cognizance of things without reference to their
bulk, shape, density or color; brings man into harmony
with the divisal>ility of matter, and recognizes tltings, as
mere indi\ idual exist~nces; while the followiug class of
facultte~, acting on the other qualities of objects, come in
to scrutinize them, by which operation correct judgment
of physical ~ub~tanccs is formed. A tram of cars, for
instauce, is prt>~cnted to ,·icw \\'hen in motion. lndi\ id·
uality not ices the whole as a s<'parate ('Xistencc, Form
ohset'\'Cs the shape of tile cars; Size, their dimensions;
'Veight, the velocity of their morement; Color, their hue;
Order, tile manner in which they are nrrangetl; ~umber,
whet lwr there are two, three or moro; Locality, the
direction they are moring i Time, the duration of the
scene; and E\'cntunlity treasur~s up the whole as an oc-
cmrcnce, or indiridual fact, and preserrcs it for the uso
of Cattsality and Comparison. The otiJce of this organ,
thercfuro, i~, merely to obscrrc individual things, without
rcfercucc to their physical qualities or the uses to wlaich
tl1cy rnny he applied. Some trareler~ gnin by observa-
tion hut little knowledge or thP. physical condition of the
country through whicllthey pa::.s. ::md rely on bool\s and
collvcr~ntion for information. They often tra\'cl for
mile:-; in an open carriage '' ithout noticing any oujccts
which they pass; their minds being occupied on !"Otlle
abstract ~mhject during the whole time. Others posse~s
nn opposite trait of character, dislikG close ::;t ndy, and
g-ain the most or their knowledge by obsenation. The
J(Hrncr hhow a "eak, and the latter, a strong endo\\ men t
of the faculty under consideration. Individuality, as n
142 INDIVIDUALITY.
general thing, is very Ja:rge, and the faculty active in chil-
dren, and the eagerness which they manifest to see every
thing that comes within the range of their vision, agrees
precisely with the de\·elopment. Books, containing en-
graving::; illustrativB of the facts which they contain, high-
ly please children, and have a tendency to improve and
strengthen their minds. A want of this faculty throws
the mind ont of balance, by not furni::>hing the other
faculties with that intellectual food necessary to give
depth of thought, and strength of judgment. It is essen-
tial to success in the study of Chemistry, Botany, l\1in-
eralogy, &c.
VERY LARGE. One having lndivid. very lm·ge, has
very great observing powers, and manifests an intense
desire to see every thing that comes within the sphere of
observation, and wher.. travPling, lets nothing escape no-
tice or scrutiny; with large Event. and moderate Caus.,
will be a real starer, observe more than reflect, he very
superficial in information, and have a good memory of
that which comes under his observation.
LARGE, has a strong desire to see every thing within /
the range of vision ; takes great delight in the mere exam-
ination uf objects; with large E,·ent., Compar. and Time, f.::
and an active temperament, will be qualified to excel in .:e
the study of the natural sciences; with large Lang. added,
will not only have a strong tlJirst for information, but a
talent to impart instruction to others; with very large
Caus. added, will first notice objects closely, found prem-
ises upon the sure basis of facts, and then reason from
them, and like Franklin and Gall be qualified to make
clisco\·eries in science.
FuLL, is generally quite observing; notices objects in ~
bold relief withont descending to tlt>tails and particulars
unless the objects are connected with the busjuess or in.
terest of the person; with very large Caus., will often,
when traveling, :-ee an object, and while reflecting upon
it, pass many things without notice; with large E,ent.
added, will know much of a few things, or subjects, rat h..
FORltl. 143
er than a little of many; with small Event. and Lang.,
will no_t be qualified for a general scholar, or excel in any
one sc1ence.
AvERAGE, is not a very minute observer of things in
general, and does not possess the power necessary to
acquire knowledge of existing objects with facility; with
large reasoning organs, will gain information from books
and reflect10n more than by observation.
:
MooF.RATE, will fail to notice objects minutely, and
when traveling will let many things escape observation;
with moderate Event., will, on entering a room, observe
the general appearance of furniture, &c., but after leaving
it, will be able to give only a vague description of its
contents.
S~IALL1 has Very feeble powers of observation ; gams
knowledge slowly, and when traveling, wiH pass many
objects unnoticed, although they may be conspicuous;
with full Caus. and Event., will be able to gain some
knowledge frCJm books, but be deficient in general infor-
mation and practical ability.
VEn¥ 8:\ULL, notices but fpw objectR when traveling ;
has no talent to acquire knowledge by observation; feels
his way through the \'\'orl<.J, and if all the rest of the inteJ-
Jectunl oroans be large, wilJ fail to become a distinguished
0 •
scholar in the natural sc1ences.
26. FORM.
Idea of configuration, pozocr of recollecting models, coun-
tenances, family resemblances, ~c.
This organ is situated near the inner angles of the eyes,
and when larrre causes rrreat wi<.lth between them.
t;) ' b
An \PT:\TION. The uni\'erse is composed of particles
of matter, having an infinite vanety <Jf shapes an<.! forms.
In the veoetaule kinadom, no two leaves can be found
Cl t;)
144 FORM.
which, upon close examination, present the same configu-
ration or shape ; and the same fact is observable in the
animal and mineral kingdoms. Such being the case,
it seems necessary that there should be some faculty in
the mind, to bring man into harmony with this quality
of objects. Phrenologists maintain that the organ of
form enables man to do this, and without it, no one could
telJ the difference between a circle and triangle, or a
square. It is essential, to the sculptor, the painter and
the mechanic, and enables us to recollect the form and
features of absent friends, and configuration in general.
It was a large endowment of Form, that enabled Cuvier,
the celebrated French naturalist and anatomist to recol-
lect the shape of every bone which he had ever seen, and
tell, when the bones of any an1mal were presented for his
inspection whether he had seen them before; and if so,
to know the class of animals to which they belonged.
Some children Jearn the letters of the alphabet with little
teaching, while others find difficulty in distinguishing the
different letters by their form. The former have a strong
and the latter a feeble endowment of this faculty.
VERY URGE. One having Form very large, has an
extraordinary memory of shapes, form and configuration,
is very fond of viewing any object, the form of which is
beautiful; with large Individ., will be very observing of
persons, and never forget the countenances of those once
seen; with very large Lang. and Size, will have the ability
to become a good reader, and deliver a written discourse
weU before a public assembly.
LARGE, will have the ability to judge of the configura-
tion of objects with great accuracy and has a good mem-
ory of countenances; with large Individ. and Comp., will
readily detect slight differences in the shape of objects;
with very large Size added, with point out with great
accuracy the want of resemblance and size of two articles
intended to have been made alike; with large Individ.,
Comp., Event. and Local., wiJJ be abJe to excel in anato-
my, mineralogy, geography, &c.
SIZE. 145
FuLL, has a tolerable good memory of the sltape of ,J-
objects, and of persons' countenan-ces; with very large
Construct., Size, lmitat., Color, Comp. and Ideal., will
succeed well in drawing and painting; with large Individ.
and Local. added, will be f<>nd of beautiful landscapes;
with large Lang. and Event. added, will have the ability
to describe natural scenery in minute d~tail, and <>f excel-
ling in the natLtral sci~nces.
AvEnAGE, will find it necessary to spend considerable
time with strangers to recollect their countenances; has
only a fair talent to judge of the configuration of objects,
and will never excel as a mechanic without the aid of
patterns.
~IooERATE, cannot recal to mind the countenances
even of intimate friends, and when meeting them after a
few years' absence, wilJ recognize those only, who have
stroncrly marked features; with moderate Individ., will
0 •
miscall many words when reading, and ne\>·er excel in
orthography.
S .\IALL, has a very poor memory of countenances;
cannot retain the shape of objects with any degre<' of ac-
curacy, and often shakes hands with persons whom he
c ·mnot recognize.
VERY S:\1:\LL, forgets the countenances of familiar
acquaint:1.nces; cannot recognize old neighbors after a
:short abs0.nce from them, and has no idea of the features
of abscut relatives and friends.
27. SIZE.
Power to judge of magnitude, di~tance, lteigltt, deptlt, ~'c.
This orcran is located outward from Individualit\'.
0 •
A D.\P.t' \TlON. All things occnpy gpace; and hence
every p:lrticle of matter has lcaglh, wiuth anci thickuess.
The faculty of Size in man i:s in harmony with the atlri-
13
.•
146 SIZE.
bute of material substances, called extension. All sub-
stances are large, or small ; broad, or narrow; long, or
short; and from this fact, arises the idea of maximum
and minimum. Thus, a mansion, and a cabin ; a moun-
tain, and a grain of sand; a continent, and a manor; a
man, and a boy; an inch, and a league; are relatively
large and small, and are judged of, in that respect, by
this faculty. Without it, we could not tell one thing
from another when other appearances are alike; that is
to say, where form, density, and color, are the same.
By this faculty, we judge of animals, men, buildings, and
things generally, and know our own, from those of others,
or any given class of objects. The egg of an Ostrich and
of a small bird, alike in shape and color; can be distin-
guished only by Size. It is useful to mechanics, in meas-
uring size and distance, by the eye; say the parts of a
machine, building, coat, boot, &c.; to the artist, in pro-
portioning the size of the different parts of a picture,
statue, or landscape, and is indispensible in foreshorten-
ing and perspective; indeed almost every mechanical and
agricultural operation, calls for an exercise of this faculty;
and size, in regard to property and things, being a meas-
use of power, or quantity, or value, constitutes an im-
portant element of practical judgment. This organ
should be cultivated in youth, by judging and then meas-
uring, dividing of things and judging of magnitude in
general, and the faculty will become strong, and the
judgment in this respect good.
V ErtY LAnGE. One having this organ very hu·ge, has
a keen, and ready perception of the magnitude of objects;
can determine with great accuracy, the distance ofplaces,
or things; the height of a house, room or tree; can divide
thinas into equal parts without measuring ; tell the centre
of objects, such as a line, square, or c!rcle; in drawing,
get the true, the relative, or comparative size of the
thing sketched; and do it by the eye, with great precision.
LARGE. The organ of size large, imparts a talent to
JUdge of the magnitude, bulk, distance, and height o(
things very accurately by the eye; the person will succeed
WEI GUT. 147
well clEtcris paribus, in such arts as require good judg-
tment of magnitude; and will usually be able to calculate
ordinary things without measurement; or detect the errors
of measurement with the eye; is a good judge ofsize and
proportion in respect to buildings, men, cattle, horses,
&c. W ben combined with Jarge Order and Ideal.,
will arrang-e tools, furniture, books, mtnE'laJs and eurios-
ities, with due regard to neatness, beauty and proportion
of size, ofthe things arranged.
Fut.L, is a'b1e to ealcalate size and distance; to make,
compare and arrange things1 where judgment of magni-
tude is conc-erned, with a fair degree of accuracy ; and
with large Weight added, wilt judge by the eye of the
weight of animals, men and .thiD.gs tolerably welL
AVERAGE, can judg-e ofsize and <Iistance, and measure,
h·eight, d-epth, &c., with the eye, to some extent, yet will
choose to trust to some rule-cannot carry the dimensions
nf ma~llines, buildings, garments, men, or animals. in the
memory, eo as to ~ecide with critica~ aecu1"acy, in respect
to tbe reJatire size of a pre.scJJ.l1 witb an absent object.
MoDEBATE1 .,•
.,.m fail to measure cor.r,cc.tly by the eye,
the height of mountains, buildings and distances, or the
size of men, animals or other .objects; ud .enn only ob-
tain a toterab1e amount of skill in this respect, by long
nnd persevering practice-as a mechanic or artist, will
trust to the nile ~ will judge aftd then measure., and if a.
mistake occurs in measurement, will n,Gt readily detect it
by the eye~
81\fALL .OR VEn¥ Sr.~ALL, judges very inaccurately of
absolute or relative size, length and distance, and will
place no reliance upon the judgment, in such matters.
2 8 . 'V E I G H T .
Tlte pc,.crption and application of the principles of specific
grat•il!l, momentum, force and resistance; of that
qualil!J ofmatter called imponderllbility.
•
143 WEIGHT.
This organ ts located on the aroh of the eye-brow, out-
ward of Size. "\Vben large, it gives a sqnareuess, and a
kind of frowning appearance to the brow, with great
prominence to this part of the arch of the eye.
ADAPTA"FJON. All bodies, are subject to that law of
nature called gravitation. In proportion to the densityr
or solidity of two bodies, so are they influenced by this
law. The equilibrium of bodies is determi-ned by this
law, and all weighing apparatus are constructed in obedi-
rnce to it. 1\Ian's nature also, is arranged in harmony
with the same principle. The faculty ot:_ Weight gives
him ::t knowledge of his own equilibrium, and an intuitive
desire to maintain a perfect balance of the whole body.
It gives him an idea of perpendicularity and halnnce, both
as regards his own body nnd every other object. He
exercises it in almost every act. In walking he alternate-
ly sunenders and restores his equilibrium at e"tery step.
If he stretches forth the hand, the body is thrown bae~,
or the opposite foot extended in the reYerse direction to
baJance the arm. " ' hen carrying a weight in one hand,
the body Jeans the other way to balance the burden. If
anoth-er of equal weight be taken in the other hand, the
one balances the other and the body assumes a perpendic-
ular attitude. In canJing a burden upon the back, one
leans forward, and the reverse when the burden is in the
arms, and in either case, the body is thr'Own off its bal-
auce to counterpoise the burden, so that a perpendicular
Jine from the feet shaH divide the total weight of the body
:md the burden carried. This organ also gives the talent
to judge of perpendiculars in general; and combined with
Form, to cietermine when any thing is Jevel. This last
judgment, is formed by drawing a right angle from the
innate imaginary perpendicular line existing in the mind.
All bodies when left to the control of the }aw of gravita-
tion, fall in a direct line to the earth, and iu falling de-
scribe a perpendicular line; and the mind, being in har~
mony with this Jaw, determines the direction a body will
take in f.1Jling, without regard to any surrounding object
or appearance whatever. A right angle from this liuc
will be level, which is determined by the organ of Form.
Wt::IGllT. 149
which judges of angles or shape, and thus the faculty of
'Veight, furnishe~ the b:u:;is for the survey of canals, and
level road::; around hiJis and over a rough country by the
~yc alone; and by this organ we are able to tell if a pole,
tree, or building is perpendicular, when they arc ~:;ituated
tlj ou ~loping or UIIC\'en ground, surrounded by nothing
which is either level or upright. Erery leaning object
\\ llich seems to be unsupported offends against the law of
gra\·itation and of Cf]uilibrium and against the feelings of
(IIJC haviug the organ of 'yeight large. It is nec<'ssary
to the !-'cuJptor, to c-nable him t<> mal<e his stahJC' so as to
he perfectly balanced; to the paiHter, to giYe the proper
attitude to a picture; to buildcrlii, in judging of leH·Is nud
perpendicular~, and to the machinist in determining the
f{)Tcc and rPsio;;tance of a machiue, and to understand the
laws of \'clocity and momentum, in the whole arrange-
ment. The whole system of Hydraulic power is l>ased
upon gra,·itatiou and a knowledge of its principles is
obtniucd and :tpplied by the faculty of \Veight. Tbis
f-1culty enables us to judge of, and apply the power neces-
flary to propel bodies; to throw a ball or quoit; to balance
the body on the mast, or yard-a.rm of a ship, or a high
frame, and to walk on high and narrow places, and main-
tain the equilibrium of the body. Gre.at engineers, circus
riders, rop.c dancer~ and balancers, have the organ \'ery
large. This tells them when the body, or any thing to
he poi~crl, is iu the least degre~ off the true balance, aud
induc~s an instantaneous desire and ability to restore it.
\Vithout it, mnn and beast would fall, and like water or
any round substance, seck a Jen'I.
VERY L.,.ncE. Oue having the organ of weight VC1'!J
large, is capable of preserring the true balance of the
body in any position~ will judge with critical accuracy of
the specific gra,·ity of bodies, nnd the poncr necessary to
propel them: and whether buildings, trees, masts, stee-
ples, furniture, mirrors, maps or pictures are perpendicu-
lar ; and feel uneasy if the law of graYitation is violated
in the least degree.
l!J•
150 f'OLOR.
LAP..GE, judges very correctly of the weight of animals,
men and things, also whethe• things are reclining ~ is
offended "with leaning statuary, a stooping man, house,
fence, steeple, tree, or any thing which ought to be per-
pendicular; has geod judgment of weight and resistance;
can balance the body on horseback, and if a man, will
throw a ball, stone or quoit well, or become a good
mnrltEman with liule practice.
J- FuLL, can judg~ toler~bl~ weJJ. of specific gravity, k.eep J
a balance, &c.; w11l notice 1f tbmgs are not perpend1cu-:
lar, or level, but lack that nice perception, that mathe- [_
matical certainty in this respect, described under \Veight q)
Vt )..
!/ hag~.
AvER.·\GE, has not enough ofthis facuhy to judge with 4
accuracy of weight, resistance, momentum aud perpen-
dicularity; will notice if things are very much leaning,
hnt is not pained at a slight variation; wm frequently
trip and Jose the balance of the body, and if Caution be
large, and Combat. and Appro. moderate, wiJJ venture
very little in the way of climbing.
MoDERATE, will require much practice to judge with
any degree ofcorrectness, of gravity and perpendiculars;
will stumble and trip easily, and venture upon high and
clifficuit places, only from imperious necessity, and baJ,
ance poorly.
SMALL oR VERY Sl\J.ALL, is the reverse of what is de-
scribed under Weight very large.
29. COLOR.
Perception()_{ prt'mary colors, tltei'r shades and bhndhzgs.
This orcran is located at the centre of the arch of tbe
eye-brow,t:land when large, gives great upward and for-
ward arching to it.
ORDER. 153
l\1onr.nATE, seldom notices colors, unless the attention
is directed to them hy business, interest, or some singu
larity, such as a ~potted hor~e, ox or bird, will suffer
on.liuary color~, to pass without a thought; with Ideal.
and the perceptive organs large, will U6 fond of pictUTP,S
and flowen-;, but other <Jualities more than color, will b(;
the fourH.Iatjcm of admiration.
S.'IALL on VERY Sl\1.\LL, can never excel in judging of
colors, cren with !>rnctice i may tell ulacl< from \\ hne;
an A fricnn from an European ; but sees little difference
in color:::, or their blendings.
30. ORDER.
!..oN. nf an·angcmwi; (/t•sire to !tave lhi1tgs in their prop~
rr places.
This organ is situated between Color and Nurnher "at
Il:e external conH'I' of the eye, and beneath the origin of
the superciliary ridge.''
An \1'1'.\TIO~. Order is s::tid to b~ HeaYcn's first Jaw,
and if we take a survey of the celestial worlds, and witne~s
the order aud rcgnl anty of their mo\.·ements, nnd then
tmn our view to the enrth, and uoticc the regularity of
1he !'C:l:'On~, day and night; the regular gradation of :111i-
lttah; from the meane:::;t reptile ttp to man, and the perfect
~:;~tern every where cxi:::;ting in the natural world, we are
~truck with the truth of the words of the poet, that,
"The general onlr.r since the world ucgnn,
Is 1-t'pl in nature, and is },pJH in man. ·•
.Man, is brought into harmony with this system in na-
ture, by ha\'ing implanted in his mind, a distinct faculty,
the design of which is to give regularity nnrl order, in all
his actions. \Vithout ordu in the natural world, confu..
sitJn and disorder would take the pli\ee of that perfect
h.trmony which now exists. Blot this faculty from the
minJ of man, and much of the happiness which he now
enjoys, wouiJ be annihilated. In view, therefore, of the
]52 COLOR.
to pictures and flowers, has a tendency to cultinte nnd
increase the organ ; while boys, who are dres~ed in black
or sober gray, are left without cultivation; and hence it •
is, that men seldom notice the color of a stranger's hair,
eyes or dress, and women are close observers and gooJ
judges in those matters. Some Artists draw well aud
color badly; others draw badly and excel in coloring ;
the Ialter, hare the organ of Color large, and Form, Size,
'Veight, Ideality and Imitation deficient; and the former,
the reverse.
VERY LARGE. One having the organ of Color t•u'.t/
large, is a great observer and lover of colors; a good judge
of the nicer sl•ades and blendings of shades; and with
I ugc Imitat., Form, Size, \Veight and Ideal., is capable
of drawing and painting with extraordinary !-kilJ, a11d
will be fond of cultivating flowers and collecting paint-
ings, shcJJs, &c., for the beauty of their colors.
L\RGE, has a ready and clear perception of the nice t
shades and blendings of colors, and is quite obsening of
the color of the hair, eyes and dress of persons; has the
f:tculty to combine and compare colors with skill and
detect errors in paintings; will manifest good ta~te iu
the seltction of goods where color is a valuable quality,
aud with practice, \roul<l become a good colorist.
FuLL, posses~es a tolerable amount of talent to observe,
discriminate and jndge of the primitive colors, and with
practice, will uc able to harmonize and blend them with
some, but not great skill; in paiuting, will U::ie bold col-
ors, and with large Ideal., will be as fond of mezzotint or
Daguerreotype pictures, as colored paintings.
AvEn.\GE, can distingui~h colors and recollect them
by gi,•ing particular attention, but is not very observing
of complexion, the color of the dress of persons, &c. If
Form, Size, Order anu lueal. be large, will notice the
figure, proportion and delicacy of a person or picture,
flower, dry goods or animals, more than their color.
COLOR. 151
At>..\l'TATJON. Color iRa quality gf objects, which not
..only renders them beautiful, hut one Ly whid1 we dis-
criminate things which may Le precisely alike in form,
$i::.r. and wcigllt. Personal beauty is dependent to some
extent, upon color, and by the organ of Color, we admire
the genera) complexion, as well as the rosy cheek, the
beaming eye and flowing Jocks. The green carpot of
the earth, studded with variegated flowers; the Joliage
and blossoms of the forest, with the rich pJumnge of its
m<'Try songsters; the unsurpassed splendor of the marine
beauties; the mellow pencilings of sun-light upon the
summer cloud; the glowing hues of the rainbow, and the
warm, life-like coloring (Jf the breathing canvass, arc
Jorcd and pri?.ed by this facu1Ly, which brings us into
harmony with those beauties of nature and art, and with-
out which,"full many a flower would bloom unseen," and
man would be blind to the rich hues that invite admira-
tion and feast the eye on every hand.
Some persons who have keen eye-sight, cannot distin-
gui.:lh red from g1'Cm. In the winter of 1839, one of the
author:;, (N. Sizer,) examined the head of Mr. John G.
Richey, of Bloomsbury, N.J., who had excellent eye.
sight, yet he coul<.l not tell one color from another; could
see only one hue in the rainbow, nnd as he said, aU colors
JookP.<.l to him like ashes. In the summer of 1842, we ex-
arniucd the heads of Dr. Ilnrwood and Col. Harwood, of
"'hntcly, 1\1ass., who have good eJe-~ight, and cannot tell
greett from ripe cherries or strawberries by their color.
They can, with difficulty, distinguish the tincture of
blood-root from Jamaica spirits by the color,\\ hen they are
side by side in tran~pnrent bottles. These facts, and many
others which have fallen under our notice. as well as those
recorded by Spurzheim, Combe, Fouler and others,
prove, that good eye-sight may be present without the
power to distinguish colors, and th~t the ability to jud~e
of colors, is dependent upon a speo1al organ of the oram.
Females generaJly have the organ of color Jar~er, and
the faculty stronger than malc:s; because hlt}e girls are
aressed in gaily colored clothing, and their attention be.
ing constantly directed to their various shades as well as
154 ORDER.
importance of order and system, in all the affairs of life,
we see the necessity of training children in such a man-
ner that they will practice it from choice, when they
come to act for tbems~lves. The secret of order is this;
((always put a thing in its right place when you have done
using it, and so nothing in that case gets out of order."
Parents should teach their children this secret, both by
precept and example, and make them practice according-
ly, and it will be of immense service to them in subse-
quent life.
VERY LARGE. One having this organ ve1·y lm·ge, is
extremely precise and systematic in arranging clothing,
tools. books, &.c.; keeps every thing in its proper place,
is very uneasy in viewing disorder, and in m~ny things is
over-nice. One having Order very large, combined with
moderate or average Ideal. and Caution, will not be very
particular about personal neatness; with large Appro.
added will keep the "outside of the cup and platter"
c1ean1 and use a great deal of finery to cover up a slor..
r nJ'I pers~n.
LARGE, likes good order and arrangement in all things ;
can usually find clothing, tools, &c., in the dark, if no
one has misplaced them; with large Combat., and a ner-
vous temperament, will be angry at others if they do not
practice neatness, and ke~p every thing where it should
be; with large Lang. added, will be well qualified for a
scold, and will be likely to use some harsh language -
when things do not go right ; will be displeased with
domestics if they are not neat and tidy, and with small
Secret., be so blunt with them as to give offence, and find
difficulty in retaining their services.
:r FuLL, is rather precise and systematic; values order r
highly, and generally keeps things in their proper places.
'Vith larO'e Ideal., will be quite neat and particular; with
,·ery IarO'~ Local. will have a particular place for clothing,
books, &.c With Jarge luhab., will want a particular
seat at the table and fireside.
NUMBER. 155
AVERAGE, has an average share of order and Jove of
arrangement; likes to see things in their proper places,
but does not ahvays keep them so; is not fastidious or
over-nice; with large Ideal. and Appro., wiU be neat in
dress and personal appearance, and exhibit more taste
than systematic arrangement in general business.
MooEnATE, will not appreciate order, or in general
arrangement keep things as they should be; has some
order, out more disorder, in respect to keeping clothing,
tools, &c., in their proper places.
S:.-.tALL, is not troubled if things are out of place, and
does not appreciate good arrangement; in writing, will get
many blots upon the paper and fail to cross the t's and
dot the i's; with large Combat., Self-Esteem and De-
struct., and a nervous temperament, will scold at others
if they do not keep order, and at the same time l:lck the
ability to arrange things with neatness and propriety.
VERY s~u.LL, is not systematic, has no sens~ of pro-
priety in arranging furniture, dress, &c., always leaves
things out of their proper places, in short, has a place for
nothing and nothing in its place.
31. NUMBER .
•1bility to add, subtract, multipl!l and dit,ide, to coullf and
calculate numbus.
This organ is situated outward from Order, and a little
above the external angle of the eye.
ADAPTATION. It is a source of much enjoyment to
kno\v the number of inhabitants in different countries and
upon the whole earth, the num.ber of years .since the
Adamic creation, the birth of Chrtst, and other 1mportant
epochs in the history of the world. This enjoyment
could not be realized, if the Creator had not endowed
man with the faculty of Number. It enaulcs us to reckon
dnys, months and years, the number of seconds in a year,
156 NUr.IBER.
to calculate the movements of the heavenly bodies, and
predict with mathematical precision the time when an
eclipse of the sun or moon will take place; to na\·igate
the ocean and "state the tides;', in short, every thing that
comes under the head of computing by numbers whether
mentally or otherwise, is performed through the agency
of this organ. It does not, of itself, enalJie those who
have it large to excel in mathematics. Number was very
large in the head of Zerah Colburn, who surprised the
whole learned world, when a mere boy, with his astonic.;h-
inrr powers of calculation. But with this extraordinary
po~\·cr of mental calculation be never excelled in the
study of mathematics. ''Thi-s organ," s~ys Dr. Spurz-
heim, "only calculates; and while arithmetic, algebra, and
logarithms belong to it, the other branches of mathematics
and geometry are not products of its acti,·ity Cllone, but
with its union with Size and Locality."* Negroes, gen-
erally have this organ moderately developPrl, and they
seldom excel in the studv of arithmetic. \Vc ha\'e fre-
quently heard accountant~ complain of pain in the region
of the head where Number is Jocated, after ha"ing been
busily engage<.l during the day in difficult calculations.
Vt;HY LAR<;E. One ha,·ing this orgnn 'IH'1'!1 largP, }1~s
very great powers of calculation; can reckon figures in
the bead, with t.:elcrity and correctne"s; solve difficult
<]llCstions without the aid of rules; with a large derelop-
mcnt of the reasoning organ~, will hare the ability to
excel as a mathematician ; with thoc:;e orgnns modaaft',
will succeed well in acquirina a knowledcre of Arithmetic
-..._; 0 ' '
but not in the higher branches of mathematics.
L..neE, has the ability to succeed well in the study of
arithmetic; rerkons figure~ in the head with case and
di::-pnlch: takes much delight in ~olving arithmetical
prohlrms; \.Vith lnrgE' Local., Form, Size and Cornp., "ill
have the ability to succeed well in thr c:;tudies of 51H,·eying
and navigation; with Jargc Caus. and Comp. added, will
be able to excel in the higher branches of mathematic .
•f.:purz heim':-: Phrenology, Vol I~ p. 32~
LOCAL lTV. 157
FuT.I., can acquire a knowledge of arithmetic with a
good degree of facility, and be able with practice, to solve
djfficult problems, without the aid of a pen or pencil ;
with large Caution, will be slow, but correct in calcula-
tion , and with large reflecti\e organs, succeed well in
the reasoning part of arithmetic, and in mathematics.
A ,.ERAGE, has a fai r talent to compute by numbers,
but is not very fond of the stutly of nritiHnetic; with large
Cau.,., will he better pleMed with mathematics than simple
numbering; with average, or full I ndivid., cannot become
a rapid penman, and will be liable, when trying to write
with celerity, to leave out letters, or parts of a letter, or
put tvo many letters into a word; with large Caution and
( lrder added, will write a stiff, but legible hand.
1\Ioo.:nATF., cannot compute by numbers with C?ase or
facility; dislikes the study of arithmetic, and will need
to l'tndy much, to be able to transact common business
that re(ptires a knowledge of the science of numberbl.
S.\t.H.J, on. VERY s~rALL, is wanting in arithmetical
talent; cannot learn the multiplication table, yet with
Jarg~ rca..;oning organs, and an actn e temperament, may
he a philosopher, and possess souud judgment in every
thing, except the science of numbers.
32. LOCALITY.
TLIZOlclcdge of dircrtion, and t~( t/u' ulath•e position of
p/a('( s and tlting:>.
This «Hgnn is Jocatcd aboYc Size and \\~eight, on each
5iclc of C\·eutuality and Indi\'iduality.
A n .\PT \"TIOX. One principle in uatural philosophy i.::,
tlant no two ~11h-:tancc~ can occupy the s:Hne place at the
<;;IJllC t nc, ancl hence the illlj}l'lttira6ili(1! or matter.
E\ cry t h111g in cxi tence, mu:st occ11py ~ome place. E~·­
ery p trltcle of matter bears some relation to other parti-
cles of mntlcr, and each is located in some direction frollJ
I 1
158 LOCALITY.
every other. Man occupies a place in creation, and
every other thing is situated in respect to him, eithe.-
above, beneath or laterally. This organ gives man a
memory of the rP.lative direction of things from himself,
and by knowing such direction he is enabled to point
toward or approach them. It imparts all our ideas or
knowledge of the cardinal points, the locality of rooms,
towus, states, and countries, and from this faculty has
arisen the science of geography, which is the handmaid
ofnaYigation. l\1an may be called a peregrinating being,
from his fondness of roaming from place to place. Lo-
cality gives this desire, and ability to visit any ~pot on
the face of the earth, aml find the way back to the "dear
native home.'' Jnhabiti\.eness imparts the desire for a
"local habitatiOn,'' n home; but necessity, convenjence,
pleasure or profit, requires man to visit other places, and
the organ of Locality serves as an internal magnet, to
direct him in his tra\els, and pilot him back to his haven-
home. The American Indians have the organ large, and
it is well known, that they are Yery sagacious in knowing
and fiDding the localities of the trackle~s forest. Il is
indispensable to ciril engineers, n:H·igators, printet s, or-
ganists, &c., and useful in every laue of life. Certain
animals and in~erts manifest an intuitirc talent in know-
ing the location of places and finding them, without ever
ha,·ing tra,·eled orcr the g• ound. A pig may be remo\'ed
from its native place se\'eral miles and by a circuitous
route, and \\'hen libet atcd, it wi1l take a direct line to its
home and swim ri\'ers to nccomplish the journey. A for-
eign hnntiug dog may lie placed upon a track in a strange
territory, ancl af'trr ha,·ing run all day, will t(ll<e a new
ami direct route to the place \vhere he ntc !tis breakfast.
A bee may be earned in a box for twenty miles, and
wheu Jihcrat<'d, wdl make a few turns to reguh1te the
locnl knowlecf,Tc, and then take a "bee line" for its hire.
~ .
Bee hunters, take ad\ ant age of the dtrect, horne'' ard-
bouud cour::-c of bee~. to find their delicious tl'ca~ury.
Thus, there :'cems to be in animals an innate lmowlcdgc
of tl1e geo~rnphy of places. The faculty of Locality in
rnan, is dc~iuued to impart the same talent, to such an
b •
extent a::; his circum~wuces req111rc.
LOCALITY. 159
VEnY L ,\nGE. One having Loca1ity very large, is amc-
ious to visit foreign places; desires to understand the
minute geography of different countries; has a clear and
vivid recollection of roads and places once seen, their
relative position, direction or location. With Inhab.
moderate, will L>e passionately fond of traveling, and
rending of tr:u·els, surveys, &c.; never gets lost in cities
or forests, and can direct travelers weiJ.
LARGE, is well q!.!alified to enjoy traveling; or to pur-
E\le the ~tudy of geography understaodillgiy; will retrace
the steps through winding ways without difficulty, and
seldom forgets the nppenrance or local ion of places once
seen. \Vith large Number, Form, Size and Weight, will
excel as a Rurveyor, or na,·igator; with large Lang. and
lndirid. ndded, will excel in describing localities; and
with large tdenl., Hope nnd .Marvei. anrJ a\'crage Acquis.
added, would like to trard the world through, to see
curiosities and examine the wonders of the pre::;ent and
ruins of the past.
J;: Ft'tr., has n relish for traveling; likes to get informa-
t tion respecting nntions, places and general gcogrnphy;
in listcnmg to a fact or tnlllsacti()n, wishes to know where
it ocr.urrcd, and in relating incidents, is particular to tell
the place of the transaction, as well as the fact; alwaJS
has a curiosity to know where persons live, to find out
the residence of strangers} &c. ; seldom gets "turned
around," or loses the point of compass; generally recol-
lects the appearance of towns, direction of roads and
::;treams; the locality of mountains, buildings, places ai&d
things.
AvERAGE, feels some desire to visit foreign places; L
has ordinary local memory, and requires strict attention
to recollect the peculiarities of places. \Vi1 h small Jndi-
vid., will often pass places a second time without recol-
lecting them. \Vith large Jnhab., Adhes. and Acquis.,
will travel only to seP. friends, or when interest demands
it, and will then tr:nel in a cheap way. '\Vith larae
Lang., will remember where things are situated by th6
160 SEMI-PERCEPTIVE FACULTIES.
language used to describe their location rather than by
their absolute situation.
MoDERATE, will not be fond of roving, or remember
roads, places and localities, unless directed by something
of special interest. With large perceptive organs and
large Eventuality, will readily see things, and remember
all that he sees, but not be critical respecting their local-
ity. If Inhab., and the social organs generaliy, and
Acqnis. be large, the person will tra\·el only from impe-
rious necessity and turn the back upon the world and
say, "There's no place like home."
SMALL, is liable to get lost when traveling or rather is
not disposed to travel at a11; with large lndivid., Form,
Color, Ideal. and Marvel., will be fond of seeing the
curiosities which new scenes afford, but will have a poor
memory of localities.
VERY SL\IALL, has a very poor geographical memory.
and travels only from the urgency of business and tbe
promptings of the other faculties.
SIJecies Ill. SEl\lr-PEncErTIVE FAcuLTIEs.
The organs of these faculties are located across the
middle of the forehead, abo\'e the simple perceptive, and
below the reflective or reasoning organs, and the facul-
ties in their nature are intermediate, those which relate
merely to the physical qualities of material substances
and those that grasp abstract relations and truly meta-
physical subjects. The perceptive faculties gather facts
and observe the phenomena of things as simple existences,
while the semi-perceptives take cognizance oftheir modes
of actjon, and remember what the others observe, and
transmit it to the reflective faculties, and thus the per~
ceptive and semi-perceptive faculties all combine, to fur~
nish data for the reasoning powers. The reader is respect...
fulJy referred to the cuts, page 140, which exhibit the
organs of the reflective, semi-perceptiYe and perceptive
faculties, in different degrees of development,
EVE:-iTUALITY. 161
33. EVENTUALITY.
l?.crollection of facts, actions and occurrences; power to
trca;>zti'C up ·what tlte otlu.r faculties observe.
'fhis org~m is located in the c, ntre of the forehead,
between the simple perceptive, and reflective faculties.
AoAI'TATtoN. The adaptat1on of such a faculty to the
~ffairs of this busy world, will be perfectly apparent when
we reflect that the earth, with its innumerable inhabitants,
is one great ~r1eatrc of life, motion and change; o)d things
arc passing away, and the new constantly taking their
place. Like the rolling current of a strearn, so are facts,
cirnnnstances and phenomena, constantly rushing upon,
and passing off the stage of act ion ; the sun rises and sets,
the seasons change, vegetation spnngs up, blooms and
decays; men and animals ri!:ic, flourish and die. Thia
faculty is plnced in m(}n, to treasure up those fact~, ac-
tions and changes; to engrave them on the mind, and
rcsen-e them for future usc or application. '\Vithout such
a garuer-house in the mintl, some distinct power to re-
member erents, the facts, actions and li,·ing phenomena
of yestertlny would furnish neither pleasure nor wisdom
to-daJ. The judgment of the present would not be
illumined Ly the experience of the past, and we should
Jive, and think, and know, only in the circumscribed
pr>int, ca1lcd now,· we should Jearn and use kuowledge
in~tantancou:sly, and of necc~sity. caPt it aside forerer.
\\rit hout memory, the e\'ents of Jife, like impressiOns in
water, would be effaced and nl)ne could Lecorne wise or
learued. 1\lau would be unnbiC' to revel nmid the rich
treasures of the past; the history of his early life, of the
c<·nturies of time since the creation, all teeming witl\
stirring interest, wouJd be to him a~ a senled hook. Only
one thing, circum<;tance or crcut, could be known at a
time: and that only during its occnrreuce, the memory
of'' hic.h would pnss tl\rny form·er, nnd lcnve the mind,
as tt respects what luu. been, n perfect blank. \Vith a
gond mernory of facb and occurrences, we arc enabled
to garucr uot only tho::e Lh111gs which have tran~pircd in
Jt!«:
162 EVENTUALITY.
our experience, but we range the ancient battle fields,
the changes ofgovernment, the rise and fall of kings, the
advancement of science and religion, and the onward
progress of knowledge and refinement, which have given
interest to the world in former ages. The scholar of
historic lore, ':is a contemporary of all ages-a denizen
of all nations," and even while on his pillow, may roam
upon the ramparts of Babylon, Jerusalem, Troy, Thebesp
or Pompeii, and connect the ante, with the postdiluvian
history, converse with the poets, philosophers and orators
of other times, and trace the glowing pages which record
the changes, habits and mannerl', of every nation which
has risen and flourished and passed away. This pours a
flood of wisdom and delight into the soul, cultivates the
taste, enlarges and elevates the mind, corrects the judg-
ment, and lays the foundation of wisdom and l1appiness.
This faculty is indispensable to success in the business
man, the orator and statesman. '\Ve have noticed that
Ex-Presidents Adams and Van Buren; Senators J. C.
Calhoun, Preston, Benton and Wright; Mr. Clay and
.1\fr. Wise; Jonathan Roberts, late collector at Philadel-
phia and many other distinguished public men, hare
the organ of E\'entuality t•o·y large; and they are very
remarkable for acute and comprehensive memorJ of facts
and details. This gives them the material for extempo-
raneous debate, and the power of bringing to bear upon
the point in question, every fact and precedent in the his-
tory of the present or past. .Mr. Adams literally knows all
that he has ever learned; and we have seen him called out
by incidental t.lebate, when he would at once, by the power
of his memory, give the history of our on·n, or of foreign
~overnments in detail, being himself a walking libra1·y.
J. C. Calhoun never takes notes in the Senate, but replies
to long speeches from memory alone. Reporter Stans-
bury also, has an extraordinary de,·elopment of Eventual-
ity, and without the aid of stenography, reports more for
the press than any other congressional reporter, and at
the close of each day, writes it out from memory, \Yilh
the aid of a few brief notes. This organ is usuall}' large
in children, and their memory of facts, stories, &c., cor-
responds with it; while adults often ha\·e the organ
EVENTUA LlTY. 163
moderate anu the faculty weak, which shows that it has
not been culti"·ated. It is, like the key-stone to an arch,
one of the most important faculties of the mind, and one
of tl1c. easiest to improve and cultivate. Children love
to listen to narrati,•es and anecdotes, and tltat should be
the mode of educating this faculty of memory, as it fur-
nishes stimulus for the organ. The Jews taught their
children, what their fathers had taught tltt.m, "~Ito\\ ing
to the generation to come the praises of the Lord, and
his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done.
For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a
law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they
should make them lmown to their children; that the
generation to come might know tltem, even the children
wllich should be born; who should arise and declare
th~rn to t ltcir children ; that they might set their hope in
God, and not fo1-g£t the works of Gorl; but l<eep his
commandments." No nation erer was better versed in
their own hi~tory than the Jews; and sacred and profane
Jewish history, bear testimony to the truth of this asser-
tion, as well as furnish a strong motire to improve the
memory of the present generation by similar means.
History taught by tradition makes a lasting impression
upon the memory, for it is given with warmth, and life,
nnd actiou; whereas, 1l'rittrn history is too often dry,
cold and uninteresting, and fails to take root in the
memory. lEsop's fabics assume the form of stories, and
nrc an exception to the common mode of communication.
Persons read a plain matter of fact or a principle, and
forget it almost as soon; but a story, e..·en an anecdote
of early youth, is remembered with mathematical accu-
racy for an nge.
VErtY L.\ROE. One having Event. vr.ry large, pos-
sC'sscs a. clear retentire memory of facts, historical e,·cnts,
anecdotes, what has happened," &c. "\Vith large JndiriJ.,
is very ohs~rYing of things when in action and motion1
ancl has a remarkable memory of such occurrences, C\'Ctl
in 111inntc detaiL "\Vith large Consci., Time and Local.,
"ill he a ~ood wituess in courts of justice; will remem-
ber circum tance~, and the time and place of their occur4
TIME. 165
detail, only by associating them with other appearances
and circumstances.
S~ALL, lacks the power to remember facts successfully
even when interest produces a desire to retain; gains but
little knowledge from books, because he cannot remem·
ber what he reads.
VERY SMALL, cannot remember what daily occurs;
when a question arises, is obliged to reason out every
thing auew, and fails to profit by experience.
34. TIME.
P ercr]Jtion of duration, ability to 1·ecollect tlte time wltcn
events transp£1·ed.
The organ of Time is situated between Locality and
Tune, and above Color.
An.<\PTATJON. Time is continually passmg away, and
events are daily transpiring, the date of which it is pleas·
ing and important to recollect. Every event recortled
in the history of the past, took place at a certain period
of time, and bears some relation in point of occurrence
to other events. The starting point with man in rela-
tion to time, is the Adamic creation. We have no facul-
ty that enables us to comprehend eternity, hence we are
lost in its contemplation. Chronology is founded upon
this faculty in connection with Number. It aids the
musician by enabling him to give each note its exact
time. It should be cultivated in children by learning
them to observe the dav of the week, month, &c., and
by being particular, when telling them historical facts, to
impress upon their minds the exact time when those facts
transpired. If you wish to give your child a short ac·
count of the 1ife and character of \Vashington, be partie..
ular in slating the time of his birth, when he was chosen
Commander in Chief of the American armies, the date
of the principal battles in the war of the re\·olution, the
time of his first and second election as President of the
164 EVENTUA.LITY.
renee, while Consci., will lead to the honest relation of
the facts.
LARGE, asks many questions; seeks information ; has
a prying curiosity to find out and know; remembers inter-
esting events without effort, and has the talent necE:~sary
for a good historian . 'Vith large Local., will be pas::~ion­
ately fond of reading of travels and voyages, and with
large Ven. added, the biography of di~tinguished persons.
With large Firm., Destruct. and Combat., will Jil<e the
history of wars, and the rise and fall of Empires; with large
Time and Local., will remember with accuracy the time
when, and the pl:tces \\'here erents occurred; nnd with
large Lang. added, \\'ilJ remember the language ofwriters
used in the description of e\'ents, and be able to cOJnmu-
nicate those facts to others in a cJear maRner.
l•~uLL, is anxious to read and hear the news and to
gather facts; wiJJ remember leading e\·ents tolerably we11,
but suffer minor matters, and less interesting particularS!
to escape the memory. If Acquis., Time and Caution
be large, will have a good memory of business transac-
tions, and with large Consci. added, be punctual to fulfill
engagements.
AvERAGE, will require much effort to remember events,
which are not important or interesting. If Acquis.,
Philo., Arlhes., Caution or Appro. be large, will remem-
ber what concerns the intere~t of the purse, what rel:1.tes
to children, or friends, or danger. or reputation, and will
aboays require some aid of the other faculties to impress
llpon the mind the rccoller.tion of events 'Vith large
rc:u;oning organs, wiiJ remember ideas and priuciples bet-
ter than facts.
1\foor.nATE, recollects important facts and events only,
or where interest is concerned. \\'ith Jarge l\1irth.,
lmitat. and Lancr., will remember ludicrous incident~ and
nnecdotcs, and ;elate them well. \Vith very larQe lndi-
\'iu., Local., Time and Form, will rcmcmber j)lncc~s, dates
and fJces, better than e\•ent!', and recollect cn~nts in
I
-J
166 TIME.
United States, his retirement, his death, &c. By taking
tltis method with children, they can easily be taught to
become good chronologists. For the lnst four years, the
authors have made many observations respecting the size
of this organ in the heads of diflerent persons in the
United States, and have generally found it in a moderate
state of development, accompanied, if we take the state-
ments of those examined as evidence, with a poor mem-
ory of dates. To what is this owing 7 We answer, to
a want of cultivation. .Books should be published for the
use of schools, containing the date of every important
event that has taken place since the creation of the world,
and children should study such books when young, aud
thP.n would the common complaint of a poor memory of
dates and ages, cease.
VERY LARGE. One having Time ve1·y large, has are-
markable talent to recollect the precise time when crents
transpired, the day of the month, the hour of the day.
&c., with great accnracy without the aid of a time piece,
and has the ability to become a good chronologist.
L.!RGE, has an excellent memory in respect to the time
when events transpired; in relating anecdotes~ will be par-
ticular to tell the time of their occurrence; keeps good
time in marching, dancing, and in performing music;
with large Con!'Ci. and Firm., will be punctual to the
m?ment to fulfill engagements, and wish others to do like..
\VISe.
FuLL, has a fair memory of dates, and of the ages of
friends; in reading history, will recollect the time when
important 13\'ents have taken place, but will forget the
date of events of minor importance; with large Tune,
Erent. and Number, will hare the ability to become a
good musician, and keep correct time.
AvERAGE, is not capable of excelling as a chronolo· L
gist ; cannot tell the day of the week or month, wilhout
giving particular attention; with large Event., will recol-
lect a circumstance much b~tter than the date of its oc--
TUNE, 167
currcncc; with lnrge Local., Individ., Lang. and Form
aducd, in relating an anecdote will tell the circumstances
nocurately, the place l()/tcre and before tolwm, but forget
the time wltcn it occurred.
Moo1m.\TE, cannot reco1lcct dates, ages, &.c., or te1l
the tir~c 1olum events have ~r.anspired, without giving great
attent10n; has not the ab1llty to excel as a chronoloCJist
or to keep correct time in music; as a public spe;\l~er,
will r.lip his words, and ~peak one part of a sentence with
great rapidity and another part slowly.
S:\ULL Oil VERY S.MALT., finds difficulty in recollecting
the ages of ncar relations; cannot tell the time when
important events have tnl<cn place ; fails to keep time in
music and marching, and with moderate Number, will
forget hi::l own age.
35. TUNE."'
Sense of melody and musical lta7"1JWny.
This organ is located forward of Con~tructivencs.!i, and
abo\'e and backwartl of the external angle of the eye.
Arl.\l'T.\TrON. That man is naturalJy a mu.,ical being,
may be inferred from the fact, thnt sa"age as \Veil as civ-
ilized nation~, hare their songs and melodies, and ::,eem-
intr)\' take much delicrht in nH.isic. "\Vithout this faculty,
n gr~~at nmouut of et~joyment which mankind now ~~pc:­
ricnr.e, would be lost, aud the soul-stirring melocJJes which
nlmn!'t elcctr:l} a~scntblie!', the \'aried music of the social
circle, the plaintire ~train which leads the humble \\'Or-
~hiper to raise his thOll!!hts from eMth to hearcn, nnd
joined with Hope, to anticipate th<' time when he shall
siua thP. "praises of redeemiucr Jo,·c,'' in the comJ>anv of
0 ~ •
« ·oTt". The or"nll c•f Tmlll ocrupic" a !<lilaII :-pace in the !wad,
nncl is CO\ C'rc·cl wit~ the tcmpu~al 1!111:-C.IPs, und for tltis.re·a~(l~l we
nr(' uot td\\ a, .... l"''itin~ n•sp1·c·t1llg li S -.tzr: and lwtll't', tn 01\"lll.g a
f'h:trl, ''C sddorn mark tho orgnu. In the naked skull, wu fwtl
no d•lliculty on this poiut.
168 TUNE.
the blessed, could not be enjoyed. The kind of music
which will please a person, depends much upon his other
faculties. The organs of the propensities being large,
give a love of martial music; but if the moral organs
predominate, sacred music will be preferred. Many,
judging from their own consciousness, maintain that a
very considerable portion of mankind cannot learn music.
Such, however, is not the fact. There are a few, who
cannot see any difference in different colors, and others
who cannot solve a simple question in arithmetic, and
there are some persons so deficient in Tune, that they
cannot learn to distinguish tones. The reason why so
many persons cannot sing, is in consequence of so little
<~ttention being given to the education of this faculty, in
childhood. If no more pains were taken to Jearn· chil-
dren arithmetic, than is now given to music, there would
he as many poor arithmeticians as musicians. This
shows the necessity of teaching music in common schools.
If the sense of melody is an inuate faculty in the human
mind, and a temperate exercise of all the faculties con-
stitutes happiness, then the culti..-ation of this organ in
childhood must be apparent to all intelligent minds.
VERY LARGE. One having Tune very largr., is Yery
quick to learn tunc~ by hearing them sung, and recollects
them without effort; n ith large Imitat., and average
Form, Size, lndivid., Event. and Time, will dislike to
sing hy note ; with large, or very large Ideal., will be fond
of soft nnd gentle airs; with very large Combat., Amat.
and Mirth., will be fond of martial mnsic, lou songs, and
comic singing; with small, or moderate Ideal. added, will
admire negro songs of a coar~e ami vulgar nature, and
prefer them to ele\'ated and refined music.
L.\ ncr., has a good mu::,ical car and by hearing others
perform, can learn tunc · wilh facility without the aid of
of notes; with large Indi,·id., Local., Time and \\'eight,
will readily learn to perform well on the Piano Forte;
with large Bene,·., Vcn., Hope, l\Jancl., Adhes. and
Ideal., will throw the whole ~oul into tnli!Sic, and perform
with great talent and melting melody; "1lh large Com-
LANGUAGE. 169
bat. added, will perform with energy, force and power.
FuLL, is quite fond of music and can learn tunes by ear
with a good degree of facility; with large or full Time,
lndivid. , Form and Numb., will Jearn tunes readily by
note ; with large Mirth. and Hope, and average Caution
and Co11sci., wiiJ !Je font! of gay and Jively airs; w~tn
average Hope, and .l\Iirth., and large Caution ami Consci.,
wiiJ be pleased with plaintive music, a.nd be disgusted
with comic songs, dancing tunes and boisterous mu:;ic.
AvEnAGE, cannot readily learn tnncs by hearing them
performed by others, but can discriminate between good
and poor music; with large Form, Tune, and Number,
anu much practice, will Le able to play on musical iustru-
ments, :Uld with a good \'Oice, to sing with the <uti Qfnotes.
1\IooER.\TE, is not dntcd at the sound of music and
Jea1 ''" tnues with great diniculty; with large Sclf-E~tP.em,
will like to take the lead; will siug loud, atHI make many
discGrd.-; and not know it, tot he great armoyance of I hose
who hnve a good ta!'le for mnsical harmony; with large
Ideal., may be very fund of ll ea rin.~ vocal music, and will
think mu ch of the words with which it is connected.
s~uLt,, on v~RY SMALL, dislikes music; ltns not the
abilrty to distingui:-.h the difference in toues; cannot tell
harmonious frnrn d i:'corcl arrt str:1ins, or one tune from
another, hut if Ti1rH~ be large, may do it by tl1e ::;lowuc::;s
or rapidity of the mo,ement; as a public ~pcaker, "ill
fctil to modify the vorcc, sons to please au auditory; wrth
small Iucal., wilJ he Juw and vulgar in fccJ111g and courluct.
3G. LANGUAGE.
Faodty of committing fo uu·mo''.'/, pou:tr of c1pressing
t/wugltts anrl id ·a:; by uuwt:> of $pccclt.
Thi::; t~rgau is luc'\tcd immediately over the ey<':>, upon
the s•rrw:·-orhiter plntc, and when lnrgc, prc:-se:; the eye
out\\'arcl ~ttd downward.
15
110 LANGUAG'E!.
ADAPTATION. The faculty of Language takes cog·nl•
zance of the artificial signs by which our ideas are rep,;)
resented, thE: ideas themselves being given by the other
faculties. Eventuality enables us to recollect daily oc-
currences, .Form gives the idea of configuration, Causalty
takes cogmzance of cause and effect, and Language sup-
plies the words or sounds, by which to express the ideas
which those faculties originate. Without this faculty,
by which man communicates his thoughts to his fellow
man, literature, science, arts, civilization and refinement
would not be known. When we take a view of the func-
tion of this organ, we are forcibly reminded of the wis..
dom and goodness of the Creator, in thus distinguishing
man from the lower order of animals. It must be borne
in mind, however, that there is a natural and artificial
language, both of which are expressed by signs. Brutes
are endowed with natural language, but the ability to
convey an expression of their feelings is confined to a
few inarticulate sounds. Domesticated animals, not only
have a natural language by which they can understand
each other, but they inform those persons who have the
charge of them, of their wants and aversions, by the va-
rious sounds that they are accustomed to make. Dogs,
Cats, &c., make use of a particular sound when they are
hungry and ask for food. Birds, also, the most musical
of the lower animals, make use of different sounds, to ex-
press joy or fear. The Robin, for example, pitches her
voice on a very different key, when her young ones are
approached by some destructive urchin, a serpent or mur..
dcrous hawk, than when at early dawn, unmolested by
man, reptile or bi1 d of prey, she charms the cottager with
the sweet music of her notes. But m(ln, unlike the brute
creation, has the ability to form an alphabet, place sev-
eral letters together, form words and gire to those words
certain articulate sounds, and thus express his ideas to
his fellow men. The cultivation of this fncultv in chil-
dren is very important, but from a want of kno~vlcdge of
the true nature of the faculties ofthe mind, it has not been
educated in a manner best calculated to enlarge and
strengthen the mental powers. \\7
e have statc<.l that
Languag~ has nothing to do in generating ideas. 1t
LANGUAGE. 171
merely gives the ability to commit to memory the ideas
of others and to repeat them when occasion requires.
Some persons have the impression that if a child can
commit to memory wilh great facility, it is a mark of
superior intellect. But it is an erroneous opinion, for
such is often the case with children having weak minds.
Idiotic persons sometimes have the faculty of Language
so strong that they can rE>J>eat the whole of a long dis-
course, after having heard it but once. This shows that
the faculty of committing to memory may be very good
when many of tlJe other faculties are decidedly weak.
Children are sent to school, and for weeks, perhaps, no
intellectual organ is called into exercise, excepting Lan-
guage. And how is this done 1 Merely by giving the
child tasks to commit to memory, without even explain-
ing the meaning of the words or sentences committed.
And sure enough it is a task, the child dislikes it-be-
comes tired of goiug to school, and its parentil sometimes
feel ob!iged to have recourse to the whip, in order to
secure attention to books. Take a different course, and
learn the child tlti11gs as well as word:s; let the whole of
the intel1ectual organs be exercised instead of the one
organ of Language, and the school house wil1 not be an
irksome place. In short, children should not be learned
to spell a word, or repeat any sentence without knowing
t.he m£•aning of the word or sentence. Parents sometimes
take pride in letting strangers hear their children repeat
verses which they have committed, when it is done parrot-
like, without understanding what they repeat. They
might as well be proud in exhibiting the skill of a Parrot
in repeating its favorite words. All who have a strong
endowment of this faculty are not fluent speakers, or
great talkers. Cautiousness being large, often produces
slownel:>s of communication, and combined with small
Hope, leads a person to be taciturn, even when the organ
of Lanauaae is larae. Neither does it alone, give facility
t::l t::l t::l
in the acquisition of foreign languages. Large Compar-
ison and Eventuality, united with a good share of Lan·
guage, (a combination, which exists in Elihu Burritt, the
]earned blacksmith,) give the ability to excel as a lin-
guist. Children having this faculty strong and acti\·e,
172 LANGUAGE.
will be talkative, and if they cannot finu any one to con-
\'erse with, they will talk to themselves, or their play-
things. A full eye, anu a swoJien appearance to the under
eye-lid, are signs of a large organ of Language; but the
eye may be prominent from a want of brain in the region
of the perceptive organs, and thus lead a noYice in the
science to mistake its size. The eye, also, may appear
sunken, if the anterior lobe of the brain is very large,
when this organ is well de1'eloped, as is the case with
Clay, w-ebster, Calhoun and others.
Vr.RY L .o\RGE. One having Lang. vrry large, has are-
lnarkable talent to recollect words; is able to speak with
ease and fluency, and can commit to memory \lith great
rapidity; with large E\ ent. and Individ., and moderate
Caus, will use a great many words to express a \·ery few
ideas, and in relating anecdotes will be pro) ix; '' ith moder-
nte Secret. and Caution and large Hope, will be loquacious.
LARGE, has a good verbal memory; makes u~e of ap-
propriate words to exprc:,s feelings nnd ideas; with large
Indi\'id., Event., Hope and Combat., and moderate Se-
cret. and Caution, will have a great comm:md of words
and be able to commnnic_
ate thoughts with ease and
fluency; '' ith large Caus., Comp., E,·ent., lndhid., Imi-
tat., Ide.al. nucl Tune added, will make a good public
speal<N, be eloquent, and ha, e a faculty to gain the atten..
tion of auditors, and be able to excel in the science of
elocution.
FuLL, can commit to rnemm·y with a fair degree of
facility; has a tolerable command of words and, when
excite.d, will be fluent; with large Secret. and Caution)
and moderate Event., Combat. and Hope, will hesitate
when talking. and appear to Jack Language, and will have
a better faculty to write than speak; with small Secret.
and Caus., will speak without sufficient thou~ht, and with
large Self-Esteem and Destruct. added, will be blunt and
harsh in the expression of views and feelings.
AvERAGE, possesses an average talent for committing
REASONING ORGANS. li3
to memory, and has language suited to ordinary occa-
si.ons; with large Combat. and Hope, will be fluent, espe-
ctally when cxcitecl; with large Event., and average
Secret. added, wiJl be quite a talker, but lack ease and
copiousness of style in the expression of ideas.
l\1onERATE, cannot learn to repeat words and senten-
ces without much labor ; will often be at a loss for words
by which to express ideas ; with large Caus., will remem-
• her the ideas of a speaker better than the language in
which he clothes them, and be conscise in the expression
of thoughts either orally or with the pen.
s~uLL, is slow to commit to memory; uses language
that is common-place; with full Caution, and average
Combat., will often be much troubled for words by which
to express ideas; with a good development of the other
organs ofthe intellect, wiJJ, on a slight acquaintance, ap·
pear less talented than is in reality the case.
VERY St\fALI,, l1as a very poor verbal memory, often
~esitates when talking, for words; wil1 use inappropriate
language, and sentences without any significant meaning;
with Individ. and Form moderate or small, will find much
difficulty in learning to read with any degree of celerity
or accuracy.
Genus II. REFLECTIVE oR REAsoNING FAcuLTIEs.
These faculties give understanding or reason, and take
a general supervision over all the other faculties and give
power to reason upon the ideas which they obtain. They
impart the power to trace the connection between causes
and effects, lead to the discovery and application of first
principles, (J'enerate resources, invent, adapt means to
ends, comprehend truly abstract, metaphysical subjects
and create that hi(J'h order of intellect which makes man
a progressive and 1~nprovable being, and although weaker
than many animrus, yet the natural lord of the earth.
1.5«'
174
27. DR. GALL.
CO~lPARISON.
28. Amsterdam Idiot, copied from
a cast of the original.
Reasoning organs, very large. Reasoniu,:t organ'l, totally wanting.
37. COMPARISON.
This faculty compares, illustrates, di:~covcrs analogies,
resernbla,tccs and d(ffcrcnres in principles, objects,
~c.; the power to reason from parallel cases,
to illustrate and classify phcnomma.
This organ is located in the middle of the upper por-
tion of the forehead.
An,\PTATlON. Every object in nature bears some re-
Bemblance to other objeets, yet no two things are pre-
cisely a)llce. The millions of men and animals, and
all physical existences, show greater or less likeness to
each other, and truth and falsehood often bear to each
other a striking similitude. It is the office of Compari-
son to recognize these rc~emblances and differences,
thereby imparting critical acumen in forming a judgment
of men nml things nnd of the various phenomena of the
intellectual and material world. Comparison has been
ju-tly called "the fountain of prorcrbs." It enables us
to reason upon things which \\"e do not know, by n com-
parison with those with which we ure acquainted. Thus,
WC' see a stone sink in water; a tree fall when cut at
the Joot; a balloon rise in the air; the sun set iu the
178 CAUSALITY.
and investigate the movements of th~ heavenly bodies,
revolving in their spheres; and not content with this, to
approach the throne of the Almighty, and seek to inves-
tigate the character of Him, who is the great first Cause
of all. This faculty being strong in children, produces
an inquisitiveness which will not rest satisfied until the
question asked, receives a fulJ, reasonable and decided
answer. Some children are inquisitive, but any answer
to their questions, however unreasonable it may be, will
satisfy them. Such have large Individuality and Eventu-
ality, with feeble Causality. This organ appears very
large in the portraits of Bacon, Locke, Franklin and
Gall, and they were remarkable for originality, and the
depth of their philosophical researches. It is also very
large in Daniel Webster and Professor Silliman of Yale
Co11ege, moderate in the Aborigines of this country, and
very small in the Charibs and New Hollanders.
VERY LARGE. One having Caus. very large, has a
very strong desire to know the why and wherefore ofevery
thing; is an original thinker; reasons from first causes;
searches deeply into abstruse principles and relations, and
is capable of inves6gating and comprehending the most
profound arguments; with large perceptive organs added,
will observe closely, obtain data from small matters, and
upon them found large systems, and thus, like Newton,
Franklin and Gall, make new discoveries in science.
LARGE, is much inclined to search deeply and find out
the causes of existing phenomena, and easily comprehends
abstruse principles; with large lndivid. and Event., will
be fond of natural philosophy; \Vith those organs moder-
ate or small, wiJl like abstract reasoning, yet lack judg·
ment on many practical subjects, and learn more from
books than by observation; with large Combat., will be
fond of contending upon metaphysical subjects; with very
large moral organs added, will take pleasure in reasoning
on the doctrines of morality and theological subjects.
FuLL, will wish to know the causes and reasons of "t.:'"'
things, but will not be- distinguished for deep, original
CAUSALITY. 177
comparisons only, as are strong and perfectly apparent;
is more general, than critical in illustration; fails to ob-
serve minute resemblances and differences in property,
ideas or language, and cannot classify thoughts or things
closely.
S~tALL, has but little talent for illustration, and seldom
uses, or tries to employ comparisons, and is crude and
inappropriate in all such efforts.
V EIW SM <\LT., is slow and obtuse in analogical pcrcep..
tion, even when bold and striking comparisons arc pre·
sented by others.
38. CAUSALITY.
Power to 1·rason, ability to trace lite "depmderurs ofplte-
nomena, and tlte relation of cause and e.ffect.
This organ is located ontward from Comparison, m
the upper and lateral portions of the forehead.
ADAPTATION. Philosophy teaches that e\·cry effect
must have a cnuse, and that every cause produces an
effect. C.IU~ality brings man into harmony with this
cstabli$h()d principle, and leads him to search into the
deep mysteries of nature. It draws a distinct line be-
twecu man and the Jower animals; takes the plncc of
instinct, and is denominated, Reason. Some animals, by
their instinctire sagacity, perform many operations iu ono
way only, \\'ith wnudcrful skill, and iu performing them
they cannot err. 1\Ian, on the other hand, aided by this
faculty, is enabled to inrent new things and to make
impro,·cments on the inventions of others; but notwJth-
~tanding tills, lw is liable to err. This, then, is the r]jf..
fcrence between reason and instinct. Causality leads
man to iurestigate the laws that govern the world \\hich
we in habit, the cau-,e of day and night, summer and win-
ter, the tides, an cclipsl:! of the sun or moon, the attrac-
tion of gravitation, earthquakes, ,·olcauoes and lightning;
and leaving earth, to soar through the 1egiom; of space
176 COMPARISON.
ference or analogy, of principles, language or things,
and with large Lang., will be a real critic in terms.
LARGE, has superior power to reason by analogy; to
detect a slight incongruity; makes appropriate compari- ?
sons, and with very large Caus., will have strong theoret-
ical understanding, critical and comprehensive views,
and originality and depth of thought. \Vith large Indi-
vid., Event., Lang. and Ideal., will be apt, and to the point
in illustrations, use glowing mataphors, and highly polished
proverbial and parabolical expressions; with large Firm.,
Appro., Hope, Sub., and Combat. added, will carry ev-
ery thing before him in argument and oratory, and be the
personification of intellectual greatness; with very large
Destruct., Self-Esteem and Mirth. added, wiJJ, when
aroused, be sarcastic and his withering criticisms will be
bold, censorious and overwhelming.
FuLL, bas a fair talent to compare and reason by anal-
ogy ; but will not detect the nicer difference~, the minute
and obscure resemblances in principles, arguments and
things ; with large Construct. and perceptive organs, will
make bold comparisons, and illustrate ideas and princi-
ples well by the mechanical powers. 'Vith large :rtlirth.
and moderate lmitat., Secret. and IdeaL, will be blunt,
off-hand and odd, and make many singular and laughable
comparisons, but with large Secret., Ideal. and Caus.,
will be chaste and elegant in illustration and take a few
bold points of comparison, and reason from them with
success.
AvERAGE, has tolerable ability for analogy and classi-
fication ; readily feels the force of such comparisons as
are bold and striking, and manifests strength, rather than
acuteness in iJlustration. With large Caus., will reason
more from first principles than by a comparison of facts,
and with moderate Ideal. and Hope, will rarely use a
metaphor, and is rather dry and abstruse, than eloquent,
poli!::hed and refine<.!.
1\-ioDERA.TE, perceives and uses in argument, ~cb
CO)II'ARISO~. liS
we t; the moon wax and wane; winter succeed sum-
mer; fire dissolve combustible mutter, &c., and we con-
clude that the same efi'ccts will succeed similar causes
forever. \Vhen we compare phenomena with causes
which luwr acted, and find them the same, we iufcr be-
forehand, what must follow, viz., that ~nalarrous causes,
will produce analagous results. By this fac~lty we ob-
tain a knowledge of thincrs not seen, by lmowintr tlw.t
0 ~
they rc-..cmble those which we haYe seen. \Ve sec a
Chinese, a Ilindoo, a Grcenlandcr or an African, and
from hence infer the general resemblance of all in their
Rcvcralnations. \Vc sec one city, :md infer the general
appearance of all other cities. We see corn growing
upon the stalk; an acorn, upon n. u·cc; or a fish, in wa-
ter; and whenever, or wherever we may sec tho~e ob-
jects, we say that the place of their nativity, wns the stalk,
the tree ancl the water. 1\luch of scripture teaching,
aside f1 om the Psalms of David, and Prorerbs of Solomon
is addressed to man through Comparison; for cxarnple,
'The l<ingdom of Hca\'en, is likened to a man,' &c. 'I'his
mode of rcasouing by iiJustration, the comparison of
~piritual with temporal things, and temporal with spiritual,
il:i not only one of the hnppicst, but is decidedly the most
com incing. The organ of Comparison is geucrnlly lar-
ger than Causality, aud \\'C 11oticc that those ::;pcal\crs who
illustrate truth by something with \\·hich the audience is
familiar, arc listened to with the deepest interest. Such
was true of Pitt, Curran, Sheriden, Phillips and Cook-
man. aud such is the cal:ie with Finney, Burchard and
1\1aflilt, and indeed all popular speakers or writers abound
in simile~, metaphors aud analogical expressions. Com-
parison gi,·cs to poetry much of its beauty and interest,
nnd the writiuas of Shak::;pcare, Pope, Byron, Burns,
1\Joorc nnd Pollok, abound in figuratirc expressions.
i1'~5op':s Fables, arc a perfect exhibition of the u~e and
clfcct of this faculty.
Y r.n\. L.\RGE. One haYing Comp. v·ry larg,., possesses
a scrutinizing, analytical mind ; extraordinary talent to
illustrate and reason from supposed or sinHlnr cn:--l"s;
po\\ cr to dtscover and appreciate the 11ice shades of clif-
CAUS.~LITY. 179
conceptions; with large Comp. and perceptive intellect,
will possess sound judgment and have good practical
ability; with large Firm., full Combat. and Destruct.
added, will not only plan weJI, but have force and efficien·
cy to carry out those plans.
AVERAGE, will not possess great power of reasoning
upon first principles; with large Comp., Lang., Event.
and Individ., will reason plausibly upon many subjects
and appear to good advantage, yet be superficial upon
those which require deep thinking; and with large Self-
Esteem added, wi11, upon a short acquaintance, get credit
for knowing more than he really does.
MoDERATE, has but little desire to search into first
principles; lncks the ability to reason upon abstruse sub-
jects; with large Secret., '"·ill display considerable tact
and shrewdness, but Jack the power to lay deep plans and
carry them out advantageously.
S)J.\LL, has feeble ability to plan and reason, and is not
possessed ofsound judgment; cannot understand profound
arguments and solid rPasoning; with large Ven., and mod-
erate Seli:.Esteem, \\:ill feel very lowly in the company of
the learned and dignified.
vERY Sl\IALL, cannot comprehend the most simple
reasoning; is not able to originate any new ideas, and is
destitute of common sense.
REMARKS ON THE FOREHEAD.
Those having but little acquaintance with phrenology,
often form very erroneous opinions in regard to the men4
tal capacity of individuals by merely taking a front view
of their foreheads. They imagine that a receding fore-
head is very unfavorable and cannot be accompanied
with good sense. And noticing, too, that persons of
good practical judgment, frequently have receding, while
others, noted for stupidity, have perpendicular foreheads,
they conclude that phrenology, is one of the "delusions
of science.'' A few suggestions will show the error into
which such persons are often led by ignorance. In the
first place, strength of intellect, (other conditions being
equal) depends upon the size of the anterior lobe of the
brain. The rule laid down by phrenologists by which to
judge of the size of this portion of the brain, is to ascer·
tain the most prominent portion of the zygomatic arch, a
little back of the cheek bones, from which point draw a
perpendiculal' line, (the eyes being on a level with the
horizon,) and the amount of Lrain forward of this ]ine
inclic ~tes the hulk of the anterior lobe of the brain, which
is devoted to the intellectual organs; or in more general
terms, observe whether the head is long or short, from
the ear.s, forward. See Cuts of Raphnel and New Hol-
lander, page 1~7, by \vhich a very large and a \'ery small
endowment of the anterior lobe is exhibited, with the rule
for ascertaining its size. A pcrpend1cular forehead, is
not indicative of a large, nor a receding one of a ~mall
anterior }.:>be The one that is perpendicular, howev<:>r,
may when viewed in front by a novice iu phrenology, be
considered preferable to the otie which is receding, when
in reality the re\·crse is true. A very largo endowment
of the orgnns of the perceptive faculties i:; usually the
cause of receding forrheads, nnd is often accompanied
with a good developmeut of the reflective org..u1s. Two
heads mny nppcar alike, when viewed in front, but when
seen in profile', one will indicate a well lnlanced intellect,
while the other will::;how evidE-nt marks of imbecility.
REMARK!!! ON TilE CUTS. 181
'Ve l1nvc noticeJ that most of our distinguished states·
men, divines, lawyers, physicia11s and teachers hare re·
treating f<>rchead , occa:-:ioncd by a ,·ery large de\·clop-
ment of the percf:ptivc organ~. \Ve h=-tre also noticed
that tllo:se scholars \\'ho receive the ltirrhest honors at
~
collrge, h:wc the same forrn of head. In short, a good
endowment of the pcrccpti\·e org:-~ns is absolutely neces-
sary to enable n man to be a ready scholar, and to rise
abo\'C mediocrity in :wy of the learned professions.
\Vashingtou and L1.fayctte had retreating forehead~,
nnd they were men of sound judgment, sterliug sense and
goou practical ability. 'flwre arc some pen;ons wlto have
large org••us of the perceptive f.lculties, combined with
very large rcllective orrrun~, which produces foreheads
like those of Dr's Franklin and Gall. (See cuts.) Such
a combination cnnbles its po~!'es~or to look into the lud-
den mysteries of n:-~tmc; to reasou from cause to effect,
nnd make uiscorcrics in ::science and philosophy.
HF.MART\~ ON THE CUTS-
No. 1, Figure of a perfect head, is dcsigne.d to show
the location and comparali\'e size of the phrenological
organs. The reader will sec the ::;paces, marked A, B & C,
which some Phrcnolop:i:;ts suppose to be mental organs,
but they arc not yet fully established.
A. SU.\VJTIVENES~, i-. ~npposPd to gi\'C ea5c and affa-
bility, nnd the power to please and render one's self
agreeable to others.
D. Jlu.,t.\N N.\TURF., is supposed to gi\'C ability to
judge of the motives and character of others, and to lend
to Sll:-ipicion. Sueh are not too confiding, and hence arc
seldom deceived by strangers.
C. U~·o~ FOR Lt FE, is supposed to induce a desire
to unite for life to one brlo\'cd objC'ct, uud to be consl:lllt-
Jy with that friend. Dr. Vimont, the great Frf'nch auat-
omist, has noticed a difft!rcnce iu this region of Lhe braiu~
16
182 REMARKS ON THE CUTS.
or connubial animals, an<.l those which choose their mates
yearly or associate promiscuou~Jy.
No.2, shows the location ofthe st>veral classes oforgans.
No. a, Stephen Burroughs, had large rensoning, and
e'xtraordinary perccptire organs. He was a man of re-
rn:uli able shrewdness of intellect nnd versatility of talent.
He h::~d very strong propensities and feeble Conscientious-
ness, and he was highly talented and (unless his reputa-
tion is incorrect) depraved.
No. 4, sho'tvs only average perceptive, large reasoning
and moral orgaus, and sm"\ll Amativeness.
No. 6, presents a ::-ide, and No. 7 a back view of the
skull or Big Thunner, an Jnrlian Chief and warrior. No
one will fail to perceive the veiy gre::~t breadth of the
skulJ in 1he region of Destruct. and Secret. and the total
want of Benev. He \\'as a monster oftreachery and cruelty.
No's, 12 & 13, present a bold contrast. In No. 12,
Selt:E,:;teeru is excessive, while the social organs are small,
and hence, his head is high and perpendicular in the hack
pJrt. No. 13, shows very small Self-Esteem and l'ery
laro-e Philo., which elongates the back-he:td and makes it
nppenr deformed; bnt reduce Philo. nnd increase Self-
Esteem, and the he:-sd would be wt>ll bulauced. 'Ve find
many female heads like this.
No's, 14 &. 15, are true copies of slwlls in our posses-
sion, and their eharacters corresponded with their phre-
nological developments. The other Cuts are snfficiently
explaiucd where they are insertcu.
Adh,.:;iven~!'s,
A mati\'(•nc~s,
A Iimenti \"('ul'"~,
AcfJ"i-.iti vcnc>~~,
A pproiJati vcncss,
INDE X .
Brain, the organ of the mind,
u cnJargPd UJ CXerciSC1
" reuwrl<s on the, . .
Boy in \Vashington, having a. very large head,
Bcncvoll'ncc, . . • . . .
ComlH', 1\Ir. George .
Collcgl"s, . · . . .
Clasl::lificution of the faculties,
Couccn t rati\'enoss,
Comhativcne~s,
Cautiowmc::!', .
Con:-;cicntiou:;nC!'s,
Constructivenc!i<:1
Color, .
Compnri:son,
Cau;,:ali tv, .
CuT~, rt:marl•s on the, . . •
Pal!"·
5~
4!)
'il
..-
It)
t:S
8
33
43
~I)
117
16
48
()!
61
84
Jll2
120
]:)0
171
)77
lSl
" Perfect H ead, showing the location of tl1e organs,
" Rhowin~ the \ot'ation of the se\·eral claRses of organs,
" of ~t.-phcn Burroughs & :\Ir. *"'*-*,
4
48
4!l
54
70
8;)
" '· A11'ec·tionatc 1\luthcr & Big T hunder,
" '' Big Thuuucr, hack view, & Ce)lonrse boy,
" " Tilllitl Lnc!y, RC'cklcss boy & l\lr. ***'*u,
" " .Arrogance & Modest)',
u " Lawyrr & English soldier,
'' " DR. Gar, & PoPE ALl:>.ANDER VI .,
" " E4kull in IJr. Gall's ('OJIC'ctJOn & Dr. Hettc,
" " New llollnndcr & Raphael, . . .
" " Jlitt, Moore', Shcridcn, .Burritt & Franklin,
" " Dn GALL & Amsterdam Idiot,
Divcr::;ity of character,
Dcstructh·cncss,
Education of children, anti sclf-impro\'ement,
Explanation of chart,
External senses,
fi rmness,.
F orm,
Forehead, remarks on the,
!l3
us
102
113
1:~7
140
174
16.
6!)
!36
46
1:38
98
u:l
180
IS4
General ObserYations,
]lope,
In haLitiveness,
Ideality,
Imitation, .
INDEX.
5
106
6J
124
131
Individuality, . • . . . 140
Indians, North American, 19, 20, 21, 31, 'iJ, 75, !J4, 122 & 158
Luther, 1\Jartin Rev.,
L:m s of Health,
Locality,
Langu<.ge,
Measurement ofskulls,
1\Iclancthon, Philip Rev.,
:Mapping of the head iuto organs,
l\1 arvellousne;:;s,
1\Jirthfulness,
National heads,
.Nupoleon, •
!'\umber,
Order,
Preface,
Principles of Phrenology,
Plurality of the faculties,
" " " orgun~,
Partial genius, .
'· insanity,
" idocy,
Peruvian Indian,
Physical edHcation,
Pluloprogenili Hncss,
Size, a measure of power,
" of the head,
Size, organ of,
Secretiveness,
Self.Esteem,
Sublimity, . . .
Schools and school teachers,
Temperaments,
Tigltt lacing,
.TcmpNance, .
"Time, organ of,
•rune,
Veneration,
\V(\Unds of the head,
\Va!'hington, .
\Veight, organ of,
Youth, murdered by l<indncss,
21
2f)
157
IG~
19
21
45
llO
133
19
81
135
153
3
7
11
17
12
13
16
19
25
53
18
47
145
80
H3
1~7
37
23
28
31
165
167
113
!)
67 &81
147
27
