{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__ingalese___reincarnation.pdf","mytitle":"Reincarnation","mylang":"de"}
Digitized by G O O g l C
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Copyright, 1928
b
y
‘RICHARD INGALESE
Losc/ln&eles
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
c
V J
REINCARNATION
J PROCESS, to become a law, must operate uni­
formly upon everything upon each plane of mat­
ter. To illustrate: The Law of Gravity manifests
upon a feather as well as upon a gold coin
though they vibrate at a different ra.te. JJ; is true
the pulf exerted on them by the law is in propfrttjpA tc'their *
density; but the law manifests with each- ^The Occultist,
equipped with the inner vision, observes ihis/^ame ^ejiojne? -
non on the subjective plane and says that thei*e Is not-one law
for the material side of life and another law for finer forms of
matter called the spiritual side, but that a natural law oper­
ates unvaryingly upon both the inner and the outer planes.
Reincarnation is a law of nature because it manifests
throughout nature. In a universal sense Divine Mind—God—
periodically reincarnates; that is to say, each period of evo­
lution is followed by a period of rest, which in turn gives
place to a new and a higher evolution, for nature is but the
body in which God periodically reincarnates. Deity’s desire
for growth is the evolutionary urge manifesting in man and
matter and without that urge no evolution is possible.
An oft-repeated act becomes a fixed habit, which in terms
of mind, becomes memory. A lime-impregnated drop of water,
in falling, leaves a negligible result; but frequently repeated
forms a gorgeous stalactite column. So the repeated reincar­
nation of Deity into similar forms first becomes a habit—
which men call a law of nature—and later becomes the basis
of mind and memory. The myriad systems of suns are but the
visible results of the reincarnation of Deity. And on every
planet of each of those systems the same law of reincarna­
tion obtains. The commonest observable manifestation on
our planet is the vegetable kingdom. After Summer’s gorgeous
verdure, comes the disintegrating touch of Fall, and the life
force of trees and plants sinks into the subjective silence to
rest during the night of Winter. But with the dawn of Spring,
life triumphant rises from bulb and root to once more rein­
carnate in forms. 3
Original from
NIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Google
4 REINCARNATION
Friction wears out forms, whether of mountains or of men,
and as forms disintegrate their composing atoms reassemble
to form new vehicles for mind.
In other lectures of this series we have seen how the
Divine Mother—Mind—surrounds every center of higher con­
sciousness with a portion of Herself in order to evolve a
mind within the ovoid She formed. These ovoids first become
relatively permanent in the higher vegetable kingdom when
they ensoul- trees and are the matrices for the physical forms
of trees—for no sentient form can be built without its subjec-
,, . tive matrix. . : -
Blit-tfeie,; Che developer, is also the destroyer; and when
the tree disintegrates it leaves its matrix where it stood.
’ ’ aCnd tie:subjective matrix, either from root, or stump, or seed,
* •' ■oncer mtfrfe'fcldthes* itself in wood. This process, in the vege­
table kingdom, is called, by the Occultist, reimbodiment to
distinguish it from similar manifestations in the animal and
human kingdoms where mind plays its part in aid to nature—
for the ovoid consciousness of the tree has not evolved yet
to a separate mind. But, after ages of experience in ensoul­
ing trees, the consciousness in the egg or ovoid evolves into
an animal mind; the atomic consciousnesses blend into a
single mind as each and all the States blend into the United
States of America, the Federal Government. Then the ovoid,
as an animal mind, becomes the matrix of an animal form;
and, at first, because of its lack of experience, becomes a
very small animal. But, with the stress and strain of animal
life and the knowledge gained therefrom, each time it takes
a higher and better brain and body until finally it reaches
a development where it is ready to take a human form.
Of course this process, so briefly described, takes ages to
accomplish. Repeatedly taking new bodies by the animal
mind is termed, by the Occultist, transmigration. This fact
of nature was perverted, in time, by oriental priests who
taught their people that if a person lived an animal life, in his
next incarnation he would be compelled to take an animal
instead of a human form. The priests tried to justify such
teaching by saying it deterred men from being unkind to ani­
mals and from slaying them for food; and also made men
live more spiritual lives. In time such teaching became so
common that even the priests, themselves, believed it—for
such is the penalty of reiterated misstatements. The Occultist
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION 5
says that an animal mind must first unite with a higher, or
divine mind, before it can receive a human form; and once
the union has been made the united minds never can retrace
the evolutionary steps by taking an animal body. The only
seeming exception to this rule is where the united minds—as
a man—is chosen by his people to lead them in a crisis and
he willfully betrays their trust for private gain; then the
subjective, or higher mind, conscious of its weakness and its
shame, abandons its lower mind and returns to God from
whence it came. The abandoned animal mind is compelled, by
the Gods of Karma, to reincarnate in an animal form as a
punishment for its offense. For every transgression brings its
punishment either automatically or through Divine interven­
tion. In the case cited if the two minds remain united then
in the next earth life, as a human being it is compelled to
suffer for the public betrayal, usually by incarnating in a
deformed body and becoming an object of scant charity; thus
suffering at the hands and minds of the betrayed. But if the
animal mind is abandoned it retains its human memory and
becomes an animal scourge harassing man and his property
until finally hunted and killed or captured by man and caged.
This is continued through many transmigrations until the
human memory fades out. In each life while memory remains
the suffering is naturally intense and is accentuated by the
war between the animal and men. It is these comparatively
rare cases that have given rise to the legends of the werwolf—
for in all legends which persist in many countries and have
persisted through many centuries there is an element of
occult truth, if one will take the trouble to disentangle it,
instead of sneeringly ascribing such legends to the vagaries
of crude intellects, as do most of our trained material minds
of this enlightened!?) age.
In the not infrequent cases where the higher mind sepa­
rates from its lower companion, being unable to control it
and unwilling to be defiled by it, the objective mind after­
wards may reincarnate one or two subsequent times in human
form before it becomes ready for disintegration. Such incar­
nations reveal human scourges—degenerates—who are con­
taminating to every one with whom they come in contact.
At the present time there are millions of such minds in
human forms, particularly in China and India; and Europe is
not free from its share. There are fewer entities of this kind
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION
in America, though every large city has its quota. This will
explain to the uninformed what the wise statesman Li Hung
Chang meant when, before leaving this country he was asked:
“What impressed you most about America?” And he replied:
“The number of souls here.” His interviewers could not
understand how a man coming from China, with its teeming
millions, could make such an observation.
The term reincarnation is usually restricted by Occultists
to cases where the united minds takes another human body
to replace the one it has lost. Reincarnation is of two kinds,
natural and artificial, which we will discuss in their regular
order. A natural reincarnation is when the united minds
ensoul an infant body. The process is interesting as being
another phase of the result of mental attraction. The ego—
the united minds—seeks the woman who is to be the mother
of its body. In the case of the ordinary man it is attracted
to the mother with whom it formerly associated in some rela­
tionship. It may have been in the family circle; or some dear
friend with whom it has spent days or years of pleasant asso­
ciation. Love—real love—is far more permanent than most
people believe. It lasts not only for years, but for lives, for
love is one of the invisible, magnetic cords that ties souls
together. Often two people plan, hope and demand a union of
pleasure and of profit, which subsequent events preclude, due
to prior causes set in motion. But no undestroyed plan fails
of ultimate consummation; therefore, plans, prayers and
efforts draw together old companions to reap what they have
sown in joyful anticipation.
The consummation wished is made easier by flexible nature
because there is no sex for soul, and the ego, therefore, can
incarnate at one time in a male and in another time in a
female body. This also enables the mind to have a wider
experience and to develop traits which it could not acquire
otherwise. But this must not be taken to mean that there
is a regular sequence of alternate male and female incarna­
tions; for the ego sometimes incarnates in one sex two or
even three times before changing. When this occurs there is
apt to be a masculine woman or a feminine man as a result.
Love is not the only emotion that ties egos together, for
hate is almost as strong as love as a determinating cause in
reincarnation. For illustration: A man or woman may kill
through hate; and then the ego of the body murdered, is
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION 7
tied through the bonds of hate to the murderer. Both the
killer and his victim brood over the act and the interplay of
thought ties the two together. In time, the person committing
the crime reincarnates and attracts to himself or herself the
victimized ego, and is compelled by the unseen, but very real,
magnetic thought connections to give that soul a body in place
of the one destroyed. The unaccountable hatred, which some­
times is felt by the father or the mother, for a new-born babe
can thus be understood. There are no relationships in life
more prolific, as a field for compensation, than the family
group, and the likes, dislikes and preferences of parents and
their offspring, and of brothers and sisters are all due to past
relationships.
It may not be as strong a bond as murder that may tie a
group together, either in family, business or social life.
Whenever a serious wrong is not atoned for in the life in
which it is committed, it will be the cause of bringing together
the same egos in a subsequent incarnation. An embezzler who
dies with his debt unpaid, may in another incarnation sell,
for a trifle, to his former victim, a valuable patent-right and
thus restore a fortune equivalent to the one formerly em­
bezzled.
Or a prospector may sell to a corporation, for a song, a
mining claim which later will develop into a fabulously
wealthy mine and thus compensate the stockholders, who in
a former life were victimized, either singly or collectively, by
that prospector. No debt can remain unpaid and it is an
unwise person who thinks it smart to cheat or defraud another
in business or in any way. The law of Justice applies to
those who unintentionally deprive another of his rights, as
well as to those who consciously defraud. A person who bor­
rows money and is unable to repay it must in some life be
put in a position where he is compelled to make compensa­
tion in kind or through equivalent service. This is the rea­
son we see so many persons in virtual slavery—serving others
for mere bed and board.
It is only through reincarnation that justice can manifest
while man is undeveloped. It seems a pity that man must
suffer not knowing the cause of his pain; but that is the
penalty for his ignorance and in no other way can he be
taught. There never was a time in the history of the world
that some priest, prophet or Savior did not give the teaching
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by G O O g l C
REINCARNATION
gitized by
of compensation to his generation, and usually, as at present,
the warning fell on deaf ears. But, when a man is ground
upon the stone of experience and has suffered to his limit of
endurance, he commences to think and to question. He
wants an explanation for his condition; then that demand, like
all others, will be met and he will receive the truth that will
make him free.
The reincarnation of groups of egos at the same time
accounts for the fact that history repeats itself. Men who
make it a habit of being successful in whatever they under­
take, working together for a general aim, build civilization
after civilization at different periods. So far they have not
learned to build wisely and therefore there has been no
permanence to their work. The pioneers have been followed
by those who deflected the original purpose, and each gener­
ation of every civilization paid more and more attention to
the material and less to the spiritual side of life until every
government was depleted by wealth, folly, and weaklings, and
finally was destroyed by dissipation or by a more vigorous
nation.
The average man’s next incarnation is predetermined by
his past thoughts and acts; and, willingly or reluctantly, is he
drawn by self-made destiny to his future mother. He hovers
near her until propitious copulation makes possible the basis
for his new body. Then he will surround the seed in the
ovum and make it a strong magnetic center which will draw
atoms from the mother’s blood into the matrix—the pattern
for the new body. The mother’s mind will also be a strong
factor in determining the features, form and fineness of the
fetus, and in this way, rewards or punishments for past acts
may be made.
A man’s brain, even more than his body, determines his
limitations in any life; and a wise and careful mother has it
within her power to advance or retard, through the vehicle
she gives, the evolution of her offspring. Is it any wonder
then, that the Gods refuse to permit this smoking, drinking,
petting, jazzing generation to become the mothers of the new
race which is to appear so soon?
It sometimes happens that several egos simultaneously
seek the same mother, and then, if the conditions permit, a
body may be given to each; but, usually, an ego prefers to
incarnate alone; then, precedent is given to the one having
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION 9
the greatest claim. Someone has said—wisely and wittily—
that a man cannot be too careful in the selection of his
parents, and this is true because not only is determined thus
the quality of the body but also its longevity. The longer the
incarnation the more can be accomplished in that life, the
greater progress made. In ancient times men lived many
years, the wiser of them centuries; this was because the
bodies were stronger, not yet having been subjected to ages
of abuse; and in the cycles of time still remaining for incar­
nations on this planet the span of life will be perceptibly
lengthened, that the wise egos may make up for the time
wasted during the period of “Short and merry lives.”
So far we have spoken of the “average man;” but as a man
gets wiser he becomes less actuated by the lower emotions
and hence has fewer unpleasant debts to pay. Love and
service being his normal impulses he has a wider field from
which to select his parents. He consciously makes his choice,
taking all things into his consideration. Naturally, then, his
environment will be pleasanter, his body stronger and better,
his advantages greater, all of which makes for quicker
progress in soul growth. It behooves a man, working for
Godhood, to square his accounts as he lives and to have no
debts to subsequently meet.
The time between incarnations decreases as the ego
develops wisdom and strength. It is similar to the growth
of a child. An infant requires much rest and sleep; but as
it grows older it can do with less. Time was when the
average ego rested many, many centuries between lives; but
at present the average person reincarnates in about a century,
while many shorten that time considerably, some only taking
a quarter of that period.
Divine Law always will aid an ego who is ambitious for
growth, and will help him to find a new and a better body.
All the worlds of every system are created, primarily, for
man’s development; and, therefore, he can rely upon Divine
aid just in proportion to his efforts to evolve.
Man’s evolution could not be carried on as fast, on so
large a scale, if it were not for reincarnation. If a man awoke
each morning without a memory of past efforts his evolution
would be well-nigh impossible. The seat of memory is in the
higher mind as even modern psychology attests. This mind
remembers all its past failures and their causes as well as its
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION
former successes; consequently, by ages of practice it auto­
matically repeats the process of physical growth and func­
tions as is shown in the development of the fetus and the
normal actions of bodily organs. This enables the higher
mind to put all its efforts into progressive lines and thus give
more knowledge and power to each incarnation.
It is only under the instruction of the higher mind that the
lower mind learns; for, naturally, its memory is short, as is
shown in cases of amnesia and in hypnosis. In amnesia the
lower mind takes up the new life as though it were a new in­
carnation, utterly oblivious of the life it had lived prior to
the attack. In the same way in hypnosis, the lower mind
takes the suggestion of a new life and lives it as long as
the influence of the operator prevails. For illustration: A
Doctor is told he is a taxi driver and immediately assumes
the part with all the consummate skill of the trained actor.
But in both cases the higher mind stands as a silent spec­
tator remembering every detail, and discriminating between
the real and the unreal, though it may not be strong enough
to take charge of its lower mind and impress upon it the
actuality. And the same is true in each reincarnation. The
higher mind remembers all the crucial experiences it has
ever had in all of its lives, and often the details of its recent
incarnations, while the lower mind forgets that it ever had
a past.
The lack of memory of the animal mind is the only argu­
ment that has ever been raised, with a show of reason,
against the fact of reincarnation, and that becomes a futile
one when the nature of the lower mind is understood. It is
like a man saying he never was a baby because he does not
remember his babyhood. As soon as the higher mind develops
strength enough to control and to impress its lower mind,
then does the higher use its well remembered past to teach
life’s lessons to its less developed companion. The various
incarnations of the animal mind were all in the objective
material world and therefore it has but little consciousness
of the subjective realm; and that little it greatly fears, as
when it sees—as it sometimes does—a disembodied mind.
Functioning only upon the plane of effects, and with its short
memory, it cannot know of the laws of cause and effect oper­
ating ethically. Therefore, the average person blindly gropes
through each incarnation bewildered by the seeming chaos.
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION 11
enmeshed by the web which he, himself, has woven, with only
the light of conscience as his guide. But this guidance is
sufficient to lead him into the path of peace if he will fol­
low it. Every time he disregards the leading of his higher
mind he becomes less intuitive, and in time he stills the voice
of conscience. This is another way of saying that the happi­
ness and the salvation of both minds depends upon self-
control—the control of the lower by the higher—then both
minds are illumined by their personal Corona, or Mother-
God, and reflect Deity as tranquil waters do an image.
What a mad, mad world the theologian made of our earth
with his childish creeds. It would have been much better
had he remained silent than to have given the so-called
Christian theology to his dupes. How can he explain life as
it is now without the philosophy of reincarnation? There is
no fiend in Hell more cruel than the capricious God he pic­
tures. He says that God still punishes man for the disobedi­
ence of the original man; that his God created all men but
selected only a few for salvation; the rest for damnation;
that his God, conspiring with a male and female prostitute,
creates a soul for the body they create; then places that soul
in an environment that He knows it cannot overcome, and
afterwards tortures it through eternity because it acted ac­
cording to the nature and environment which He (God) gave
it. At the same time the theologian’s God made a brand-new
soul for a body created by a good man and a pure woman;
and to this soul He gave all the advantages of environment
and education. Is it any wonder that the modern man is
materialistic and cannot believe in such a God or in Divine
Justice?
If a person cannot recollect his past, let him tentatively
accept reincarnation as a working hypothesis and see how
it straightens out not only his life but current history. Rein­
carnation gives a meaning to life which no other theory can
offer. If he is a churchman let him read carefully the history
of the Jews during the time of Jesus and the doctrine of the
Essenes, the sect to which tradition says Joseph and Mary and
Jesus belonged—a sect that taught reincarnation. In the
light of history and tradition, then let him study the alleged
words of Jesus as reported in the New Testament and see if
Jesus, himself, both directly and by implication did not teach
reincarnation.
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
12 REINCARNATION
Artificial reincarnation is when the ego—the two united
minds—occupies an abandoned body. In order not to become
confused or unduly incredulous remember man is mind and
the body is but the material covering of the mind, as cloth is
the raiment for the body. There are many causes—besides
sickness and old age—that may compel a mind to quit its
body. So many cases have come under my observation that I
think one or two may illustrate the subject—for artificial in­
carnation is not as infrequent as may be supposed.
My first Occult Teacher was a man who in his prior incar­
nation was a well-known philosopher and physician. When
the spiritual renaissance of the Nineteenth Century was
started all excarnated Occultists were requested to procure
adult bodies by artificial incarnation. Looking around for a
vehicle my Master saw a well-known Chicago physician
drowning. After his death, my Master, finding the body
uninjured, asked and obtained permission to possess it. The
body was rescued from Lake Michigan; restoratives were
applied to the body—through the force and knowledge of my
Teacher the heart was soon beating—and he had a ready­
made but fairly serviceable vehicle which he used for about
fifteen years, or until his assigned work was done.
The great Organizer of the renaissance, himself, incar­
nated artificially in 1850 and held the body until 1900. An
advanced Occultist and Alchemist had occupied that body
for several centuries, had exhausted his possibilities in it
and was only waiting until he obtained permission to go to
the next planet of our chain—called by the Occultists—Auro-
borea. But the body was in a fair condition and when the
Organizer wanted a body the Alchemist offered his. It was
accepted because the brain had been so long trained to
receive and to give Occult impressions and thoughts.
In both of these cases it should be observed that the
united minds had left their respective bodies. That gave the
reincarnating egos possession without a corresponding obli­
gation. But sometimes artificial incarnations are not so easily
made. Sometimes a heavy price is exacted. A woman called
upon me in my New York office one day seeking advice. She
said that formerly she had a childhood friend who was also
her chum in boarding school and college. Afterward both
married and went to live in different parts of the country.
My consultant died a few years after her marriage and at
Google
REINCARNATION 13
once looked up her old friend whom she found a widow and
the mother of a daughter. Her environment showed wealth
but she was heartbroken because of the loss of her husband
and nothing seemed to matter.
My consultant tried to comfort her friend when her body
slept and she was conscious on the subjective side of life.
Finally the friend said, “If you want my body you can have it,
if you will, bring up my daughter to legal age as we were
brought up, for I would rather be with my husband than to
have everything the world can give."
And so the woman passed out and my consultant took
possession of her friend’s body. The transition was so sud­
den my consultant had not had time to study her friend’s
environment and knew nothing about her friends, relatives or
monetary investments; consequently both comical and serious
complications soon began to follow. Everyone, including the
daughter, recognized that a decided change had taken place
in the woman but no one understood the cause. A chance
acquaintance told her of my work in New York and she imme­
diately came to consult with me. Slowly we solved the prob­
lems that confronted and embarrassed the woman; she won
the affections of the child and became an excellent mother.
A more complicated artificial reincarnation is when a
higher mind becomes tired of the stress and strain of physical-
life, desires oblivion more than immortality and gives up its
lower mind and body. At present there are many such cases
of good but weak egos who have given up the struggles of
life and have gone back into the Universal Mother to rest and
finally to be absorbed by Her. And it is a very strong ego
that essays to incarnate in the body and lower mind of such
a one. The reincarnating ego must have so absorbed its own
lower mind as to make it possible to undertake the conquest
of the deserted mind left in the body; because no one can
successfully control two lower minds at the same time—
since at our present state of development many of us fail to
manage one—then, too, the karma of the lower mind in the
body must be met by the reincarnating ego. It cannot change
the old environment until all assumed debts are paid. It
almost seems unthinkable that an ego would undertake such
a task, but there are some who do, for special purposes of
their own. I know of one case of this kind which was very
interesting.
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION
By taking such a lower mind and body the reincarnating
ego was able to repay an old debt and thus free itself from
all bad karma. It obtained a most unusual and perfect brain
that enabled the ego to advance its evolution tremendously,
and the venture brought it into its re-union with its half soul
from whom it had been separated for several centuries. It
saved a very strong, willful but otherwise promising lower
mind whose ultimate fate would have been dissolution without
the intervention.
When the incarnating ego finally absorbs the new animal
mind it will be an unusually strong one in consequence of
this experience—though the suffering endured no one but it,
and its closest associates, will ever know.
From what has been said it is quite plain that both in
natural and in artificial incarnations egos evolve in groups.
It was this fact that first brought into existence the clans.
The group spirit intensified as incarnations multiplied until
at last some ego, stronger than its companions, attempted to
break the traditions of the clan and to progress upon indi­
vidual lines. Then it had to face the outraged vanity of its
former companions and indeed it was fortunate if it did not
have to endure their hatred—for conservatism all too fre­
quently seeks to punish what it cannot control. This individu­
alistic spirit was repeated also in the smaller clans; the
immediate family; and almost all progressive egos have felt
the penalty of thinking and acting for themselves. But, as
evolution advances the pioneer egos multiply until, collec­
tively, they are strong enough to drag the reluctant clans for­
ward and break up old traditions.
At this time in history there are many, many egos who are
determined to hasten their evolutionary progress by getting
all possible helpful experiences out of each incarnation. By
the law of mental attraction, these minds are being slowly
drawn together, and it is to them that the world must look
for the founders of the new civilization. There cannot be a
real civilization unless there is a vital, common philosophy
upon which to base it. The almost innumerable sects of all
the religions of the world show that at present there is no
common philosophy for mankind; and hence we see every­
where national and international disintegration. But the ad­
vanced minds of the world, now being drawn to Southern
California, in their mutual exchange of views will modify
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION 15
their individual creeds until from out of all will come the
philosophy which will bind mankind to a common purpose;
and the basis of that philosophy must be reincarnation, the
primal principle of nature.
One is surprised to know how many persons in Southern
California have a knowledge of past lives. The word knowl­
edge is purposely used. There are thousands of men and
women who are logically compelled to accept reincarnation as
their philosophy. But there are many others who recall
past incarnations. I constantly meet these persons who talk
freely to me on this subject. It also is a noticeable fact that
many children are being born here who bring their memory
with them. Formerly a person who had such a memory kept
it to himself, for fear of being thought mentally queer. I
remember that my father at a time when we were having a
particularly confidential conversation, said to me, “If you will
never speak of it again, while I live, I will tell you a secret
I have never told to anyone. I have lived on this earth
before/’
At that time he had never heard of reincarnation; but had
carried his secret in his heart believing God had sent him
back to earth as a punishment for his sins.
Even a sadder case came under my observation in Omaha,
Nebraska, in 1886. I was talking with a newspaper man in a
certain place of business and our conversation turned to the
subject of reincarnation. A few minutes afterward we heard
a sob and, turning, found the proprietor of the house with
tears running down his face. In answer to our solicitude he
said that our overheard conversation had lifted the burden
of his life from his shoulders; that he remembered living on
earth before but had never heard of anyone else who had,
and, therefore, had always feared that he was insane.
And so the cases might be indefinitely cumulated; but in
a land like ours where reincarnation is a known fact by many,
and a belief by more, no longer will children be discouraged
in telling of the past, nor will older persons have to carry
such knowledge in their hearts as an almost intolerable
burden.
To this time mankind has been impelled to reincarnate
by the Divine impulse. This was due to two reasons. First,
God evolves through man and therefore desires that all men
should be progressive for man’s sake and for Its own. And
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
16 REINCARNATION
second, man ties himself to his fellow man, as we have seen,
by his thoughts and acts. These bonds of sympathy and
antipathy have been strong enough, as causes, to bring back
into earth life even a reluctant ego. But from now on there
will be a modification of this process. Unless an ego has
the desire, or will, to reincarnate it cannot be of service to
itself or to Deity—being too negative; and it will not be com­
pelled to endure a profitless life. If it so desires, it will be
permitted, like a tired child, to go to eternal rest and oblivion
in the bosom of the Universal Mother, for, “Even the weariest
river winds somewhere safe to sea.”
After this rapidly closing cycle, reincarnation will not be
a necessity but a privilege—except where an ego engenders
so much karma that it cannot be expiated all in one life. In
which case it will be compelled, by the Divine Law of Justice,
to reincarnate to pay its debt to the uttermost. Of course this
could not occur with a negative ego, but only when one had
determined to violate the laws of life for its own perverted
purposes. In the new day the ordinary man will not go so far
astray, for Justice will be much swifter then than now, or
than it has been in the past. Children would break under the
punishment a man could stand; and so, Divine Justice has had
to mete to man, in his childhood days, such measures as he
could bear at any one time. This was the reason that in
times past so much time was required to exhaust one’s karma.
But now those who will be privileged to reincarnate on
this earth will be evolutionary adults and will receive swift
compensation, whether good or bad. In this way cause and
effect will be so linked together in time that man cannot avoid
learning his lessons, and learning them quickly. This sub­
ject of reincarnation has been treated very fully from another
angle in “The History and Power of Mind.”
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
SOWING AND REAPING
Before the Metaphysicians’ Harvest Festival, Friday,
November 25, 1927, in Music Arts Auditorium, 233 S. Broad­
way, Los Angeles:
From prehistoric times, as revealed by Legends, down
through the corridor of time, until the present, man always
has celebrated the fruition of his yearly sowing. If his crops
were small or had failed he tried to propitiate unkind fate by
a pretense of thankfulness for even his meager returns. If
his crops were bountiful he joyously celebrated his good for­
tune. For untold ages he attributed success or failure to a
power outside of self; sometimes calling it devil and at other
times naming it God.
As superstition and dogma slowly died in progressive
man, he dimly commenced to comprehend that he, himself,
was a large element in the determination of results; that
much depended upon his selection and cultivation of the soil,
and of his choice of seed and the time of sowing. In this man­
ner the thrifty husbandman became a man of means and the
recipient of admiration or envy of his competitors.
Few people, as yet, realize that all men are sowers no
matter what may be their vocations or avocations. Nor do
they know that each day is a miniature year which in its
turn becomes a cycle in a life and that all cycles are but
causes linked to their effects by time.
Thoughts are the seeds we sow in earlier life and we
cultivate the crops during our mature years, reaping and
garnering them in the autumn of our life. Most persons are
not careful of the seeds they sow, for among them are the
tares and wild oats and each seed brings forth after its kind.
A man’s declining years, therefore, reveal what manner of
man he really is at heart. He may have appeared to the
world, for a time, the kind of man he wished to seem, but
that ideal self too often failed in final realization. We, like
the unwise farmer, may blame our failures upon god or devil,
but wiser men are no longer deceived by such misrepresenta­
tions, knowing that this is a universe of immutable law—
of sowing and of reaping. 17
Original fn
UNIVERSITY OF C
REINCARNATION
The farmer’s seeds affect the soil in which they are sown,
either enriching the earth or depleting it. And so it is with
our thought seeds which are fraught with good or evil not
only to ourselves and to our associates but to the very earth
itself. Unfortunately, this great truth has not been estab­
lished scientifically as yet and so the mass of men, whether
educated or illiterate, are equally ignorant of this fact. But
time, the educator through experience, will establish this
truth in the not far distant future. Then men will understand
that the Twentieth Century is the reaping time for the Chris­
tian era. They will know then that the physical disasters of
the last two decades, and those greater ones which will con­
tinue to come within the next ten years, are not the results
of exterior causes nor the visitations of an outraged and
avenging God; but are the effects of man’s thoughts and acts
upon the magnetism of the world which he has disturbed; and
which, in an effort to restore equilibrium, is reacting upon the
centers of disturbances—man.
Man should be manly, and meet his self-made fate with
courage, extracting from his sufferings the lessons he must
learn; for it is only the infant ego or the cowardly soul who
fears to take the consequences of his thoughts and acts. The
lesson that Divine Mind is trying to impress upon humanity
is that Justice is an immutable law. But self-willed and
selfish man does not wish to believe in justice for fear that
he may feel the sting of the whip; and man hypnotizes him­
self into believing whatever he wishes to believe. All the
great religious teachers of the world have taught the law of
compensation. In the Orient it is called Karma, in the Occi­
dent justice. Our brothers of the far east accept the teach­
ings in theory but in practice disregard them, as history
shows. Our brothers in the Occident neither believe in nor
practice it, though the founder of Christianity said: “Judge
not that ye be not judged. For, with what judgment ye judge
ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete it shall
be measured to you again.” The Church, calling itself Chris­
tian, has pandered to the prejudices of men and in place of
teaching compensation, has given the Western world the
moral opiate of “forgiveness of sins.” This has lulled to sleep
even the rudimentary concept of justice held by our civiliza­
tion and has brought us into the chaos which confronts us.
Even our laws and Courts protected the criminal instead of
Digitized by
Origirral from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
REINCARNATION 19
society, until self-preservation necessitated a change this very
year.
Undeveloped man, with the memory of the animal, does
not see cause and effect as one, because they are separated in
time; but his blindness does not prevent his reaping what he
has sowed. Man’s inhumanity to man throughout the centuries
has reached fruition in fire, famine, floods, typhoons, cyclones,
wars, pestilences, earthquakes and other disasters. The pity
of it all is that we have to pay such an enormous price to
learn our lessons. From 1914 to 1926 we paid over 62,000,000
in human lives over and above the normal death rate; and in
money, uncalculated billions of dollars, and man seems no
wiser now than when outraged nature first called for settle­
ment. For all nations are preparing now for the next war, and
Divine Justice is pressing to establish equilibrium as the
months roll by. The next ten years are darker than any
since the waters of the Atlantic sought to cleanse sin-soaked
Atlantis.
Is man incapable of learning, or does he, in his conceit,
think himself more powerful than the laws of nature and of
God?
Is this sowing and reaping to continue until only a hand­
ful of the wisest men and women of the world are left to
form a new civilization upon the ruins of the old?
This appears to be true to the clear-eyed student of contem­
poraneous history—and all advanced Occultists assert that it
is true. My friends, from now on be more selective of your
seed thoughts than ever before; for the harvest is near at
hand.
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Somes of the unusual and helpful books printed and published
b
3* 3F. 3\owity Ip rcss
Printers and Publishers
THE GATE BEAUTIFUL, being principles and methods
of Vital Art Education, by Prof. John Ward Stimson.
Profusely illustrated. Price, $6.50 net. Postpaid, $7.00.
EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY. Almo D e Monco, M . D.
This work is the result of over forty years of profes­
sional and scientific research. Invaluable for students of
Psychology and of the Higher Life. Beautifully bound in
full cloth and stamped in gilt. Price $2.25.
ESSENTIALS OF HAPPINESS F. F. Tanaka
Perhaps no other book of similar magnitude gives more
comprehensive, practical and precise knowledge on the
subject of Happiness than this work. Beautifully bound
in limp leather, embossed and stamped in gold. Price
$2.50 postpaid.
CHRIST’S TEACHINGS MADE PLAIN. Laureola
This artistic little volume consists of a series of lessons
specifically dealing with the Beatitudes, originally in­
tended as class lessons. Beautifully bound. Price, 55c
postpaid.
WINE FOR THE SOUL. M argaret O live Jordan
A very helpful volume, especially to those in search
for the best solution of every-day problems. Bound in
genuine morocco, and gold edges. An ideal gift book.
Price, $2.50.
MOTHER AND BETTY—Outline of Truth Teachings
for Children. Clara English
Highly recommended by the leading liberal churches,
schools, colleges, magazines and authors and teachers.
Price, 65c, postpaid.
Descriptive literature of the above, and other books, sent
on request
J. F. ROWNY PRESS
635 Lebanon St. Los Angeles, Calif.
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Coj gle
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
C o p y r ig h t 1928
By
RICHARD INGALESE
Los Angeles, Cal.
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY
WHEREVER there is sunshine, there is shadow
Wherever there is the genuine, there is the imi­
tation; and nowhere, in all history, is it truer
than in regard to Alchemy. Particularly was it
noticeable during the Middle Ages. Then there
was a recrudescence of Alchemy; and because there were a
few genuine Occultists that came forward to call the atten­
tion of the world to the ancient art, immediately there sprang
up hundreds and hundreds of pretenders; and this has con­
tinued from the time of Paracelsus to the present. Because
of these pretenders I want to talk very plainly tonight about
them in order to save your faith and your pocketbooks.
By faith is meant that as spon as a person becomes inter­
ested in the Occult, as soon as he has a taste of psychism,
his mind turns to the Occult Sciences and then he is in a
current of thought that draws to him both good and bad. I
mean, by bad, those people who have studied the Occult
Sciences, acquired a smattering of knowledge, and, having
failed to achieve any degree of success, commence to recoup
all the financial outlay they have made, from their credulous
fellow students.
The destruction of faith is worse than the depletion of
the pocketbook; but students are liable to both when they
enter the occult current.
If you find that you are being imposed upon, when with
all sincerity you are devoting your time, thought, and money
to study, the shock is so great that you are too apt to throw
the whole thing aside and say, “It is so honeycombed with
dishonesty that I don’t wish to have anything to do with it.”
That is the destruction of your faith and is a real calamity,
because sometimes several incarnations must pass before you
come to the point where you are once more willing to again
make the venture. And so I warn you of what you may meet
in the occult currents.
3
Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
4 ALCHEMY
The Occult Sciences are the hidden sides of the physical
sciences. Everything that has a manifestation in the physi­
cal world has a corresponding manifestation in the meta­
physical world. To illustrate, in the case of Astronomy: If
you are studying it from the physical side, you have a number
of theories to account for the origin of planets. You know
something of their chemical constituency, something of their
movements and other incidental matters of that kind. But
the occult side of Astronomy would be to know how the
planets came into existence, the cause of their motion, and
the purpose of their being.
The Occultist is not satisfied with theories. He wants
facts. He is not content with the phenomena of life, he
wants the noumena, or cause; and therefore he studies on
both sides of all the sciences. When you commence to study
causes, instead of effects, you immediately get into the occult
current, and soon or late you meet both wise and unwise
people. A great many persons have studied occult books and
therefore call themselves Occultists; but they are only book
Occultists—quite different from practical Occultists. The
sciences and philosophy are only theories with them, which
may be right, or which may be wrong. They seldom attempt
to prove either. These teachers of book Occultism are doing
good work if they do not pretend to have what they do not
possess. If they tell you, “I am a student, I have read
deeply and thought profoundly/' then you know what to
expect; but if they tell you they have gained knowledge
from the inner side of being, and have only a theory to offer
you and that theory misdirects you, then your faith is
shattered.
But there are people in Occultism, as elsewhere, who teach
for money only, and are indifferent to the accuracy of their
teaching. But do we not find much said about such teachers
in the Gospels, also?
A short time ago I received a letter from one of the most
prominent astrologers in America, stating that he was com­
piling a book of occult formulas. He asked me to subscribe
for a copy. I replied, “The price you charge is remarkably
lew, only twenty-five dollars a copy. If your formulas are
the results of the laboratory, and not of the library, you may
put me down for a book; but if they are of the library, I
don't want it—because probably I have all the books you have
Digitized by L a O u Q l e
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY 5
used in your compilation and perhaps a few more.” He was
honest enough to write, “It is the result of my researches in
the library.” Many persons who did not know the distinction
between library and laboratory paid the price for that book,
which was useless to them.
When in New York, two years ago, I met some of my old
students whom I had not seen for many years. A group of
them were studying Alchemy. I was somewhat amazed and,
of course, interested. I asked to meet their teacher, because,
for the first time in the history of the world, laboratory
Alchemy was being taught openly. When they tried to find
him, he had disappeared, but not until he had collected his
fees. He had selected for his pupils those who had studied
Occult Philosophy for years and supposedly knew some­
thing. First, he taught them what the books said about the
theories of Alchemy. Then, two nights before he left—not
telling them he was going—he said, “I shall give you the
formula for making gold, which is easy to do; the only diffi­
culty is to dispose of the metal after you get it.” And they
were credulous enough to believe it.
He said, “I will give you the name of all the elements
except one. That is not permitted to be given out, but I will
concentrate upon it and you who are intuitive will get that
name. Then you can go home and make all the gold you want
on your kitchen stove.” And they accepted his statement as
true.
He charged a large amount of money for his course of
lectures; and the only “Alchemy” he knew was the alchemy
of human nature. Of course, a person with common sense
would say, “If this man knows how to make gold, why is
he going about giving lectures at several hundred dollars a
course, when all he had to do was to use his kitchen stove
and make all he wanted?”
The person who divulged the secret is a promoter of rail­
roads and accustomed to handle large financial transactions;
and yet, he was credulous enough to accept a floating faker’s
statement when it came to the Occult.
A woman who studied with me for a short time—a very
short time—before I ended her studentship, subsequently
went to Arabia; and when she returned, sought people in New
York City and in Chicago who were interested in Occultism
—she is operating in Washington now—and said that while
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY
she was in Arabia one of the great Occultists there imparted
to her the knowledge of how to make the “Great Elixir.” She
offered to sell it for a considerable sum, claiming that it
would restore youth in a few months; and she made people
believe it. Her stay in each city was limited, of course. The
more incredible such statements are, the greater number of
people believe them.
A man came to me a short time ago and said he had a
way of making jewels. I replied, “A great many chemists '
can do that.” He answered, “I make them alchemically. You
can’t tell them from nature’s gems. I want you to put some
money into the manufacture of them.” I asked, “What is
your process? Just give me an intimation of one of the lead­
ing ingredients. Do you use mercury?” “No,” he said. “No
mercury.” I could but reply, “Then you have not the knowl­
edge you claim, for the oil of mercury is the basis of all
jewels.”
Other people may come to you who are earnest and sin­
cere, but self-deceived. I was in the Calkins Chemical
Company a few days ago and was talking with the manager,
who said he had just had a funny experience. A man came
in and showed him a mass of melted, colored glass, and said,
“I want five hundred dollars, and, in the course of a month,
will make myself and you wealthy men, for I have found
the great art of the Alchemists. I have learned to transmute
mercury into gold.”
The manager happened to be a hard-headed business man,
more interested in business than in the Occult, and replied,
“How do you do it?” His visitor answered, “I take a pound
of mercury and go out into the sunshine, get a certain angle
of the sun’s rays, let them pass through this glass and fall
upon the mercury, and the action of those rays through this
glass causes the mercury to change its vibrations; and imme­
diately it is transmuted, before your eyes, into gold.” The
manager asked, “Have you two dollars?” The man replied,
“Yes.” “Then you don’t need five hundred dollars, for I shall
be just as friendly to you as you have been to me. I will
sell you a pound of mercury for two dollars. Take it out on
the sidewalk and turn it into gold. That will give you half
your capital, buy another pound and you will have your five
hundred dollars.”
Twice I have been invited into the foothills near Los
f 'i ui
ALCHEMY 7
Angeles to see men who had Alchemical laboratories, so-
called, who desired to extend their plants and only wanted
a few thousand dollars for that purpose. The first man had
quite an elaborate assayer’s outfit and he went through the
process of assaying for gold. He supposed I knew nothing
about his process. After finishing, he took out some gold
he previously had put in, and said, “You see how I make it?”
I had to say, “I think you are a first-class assayer, but not an
Alchemist.”
Another man had a laboratory and wanted only ten or
fifteen thousand dollars to enlarge his plant. He claimed
that by passing a current of electricity through mercury it
would be turned into gold. He said he had done it, and yet
he was collecting money to make gold.
There are other people self-deceived, just as dangerous as
those who try to deceive you. I remember a number of years
ago a man came to Chicago and interested some bankers in
his process of transmuting junk into gold. Some of the
precious metal had to be used in the transmuting. As far as
I could learn, there was no accretion of gold; but the bankers
thought there was, and furnished the two hundred and fifty
thousand dollars for the Alchemical laboratory. Four days
after the work was started, the inventor blew himself and his
plant to bits. The man was sincere, but had a wrong theory
and knew so little of chemistry, or of Alchemy, that only
disaster could occur.
Forty years ago I first read the “Hermetic and Alchemical
Writings of Paracelsus.” Of all the books I have seen on the
subject—and I have seen many—there are no others which
contain so much knowledge as those two volumes. Dr.
Waite’s collection and translation is the best. Soon after I
had finished reading the two books, a man came to me and
said, “I have been doing some chemical work, and when I
cleaned my ovens I found a piece of gold the size of a silver
half-dollar. I want you and your friends to join me in finding
out where that gold came from. Unfortunately, I don’t know.
I want money enough to live on until I can find how it was
made.” I asked if he had no way of checking up his process.
He answered, “No.” I suggested the possibility that he had
put something into his oven that had contained gold and
when the experiment was finished the precious metal was
UNIVE
iginalfn
Y OF C ()
ALCHEMY
left at the bottom. I did not join him, but many of the students
of Occultism did, and lost much money.
Good strong characters who have failed in Alchemy do
not defame the art. Some of the wisest men in the world
studied Alchemy and failed. Robert Boyl, the great chemist,
spent much of his time studying Alchemy. He was one of
the founders of the Royal Society in England. He was a
strong character. Finally, at the end of his life, he said he
believed in Alchemy, absolutely, but that he did not have the
peculiar type of mind to lead him to success.
Sir Isaac Newton spent the early part of his life trying to
become an Alchemist; and when he failed, he concluded that
he did not have the talent to gain the knowledge, but believed
in it to the end of his life. Those were men of real merit,
real scientists, men of character. When the average man of
little stamina and petty mind fails, he turns against the
science and either declares, “There is nothing in it,” or, if
dishonest, he goes forth to recoup his losses at the expense of
the public.
From the illustrations I have given, you can see readily
that the path of the investigator of the Occult Sciences is
beset with dangers from both wiseacres and conscious frauds.
It behooves one, then, to be on guard constantly when seek­
ing either a teacher or a companion in one’s studies. Always
look up the antecedents of a would-be associate. Find out
what he has studied and achieved. No one reaches success in
Alchemy who first did not master other things; for he re­
quires the self-reliance which comes from many conquests
before he has the “will to do”—to persist. If a person poses
as a teacher, ask for some evidence of his knowledge before
you enroll as his student. If he seeks financial aid to prose­
cute, or to complete, occult investigations, require some
demonstration of his ability in that direction. No honest
man could object to such requirements. A bank would not
lend money to a man to enlarge his business until he had
shown his qualifications to succeed. And above all, remem­
ber this, that laboratory Alchemy is never taught. It is a
matter of individual conquest. It is true that after a student
has shown his persistency and evidenced his character under
the trying circumstances that the novice always encounters
in Alchemy, and has acquired even a crude success, then
some experienced ego in the great art will give, from time to
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY 9
time, the younger student some helpful hints which may aid
him in his quest.
It requires a peculiar type of mind to succeed in this
master art. I do not mean a superior mind, necessarily, but
one that is tenacious, patient, intuitive, and insatiate for
knowledge. All Alchemists are Occultists, but all Occultists
are not Alchemists, for many students do not care for this
study. Many prefer art, literature, music, sculpture, mathe­
matics, mechanics, or some other phase of knowledge, and,
in time, become masters of their selected art or science.
We speak of two kinds of Occultists, the practical and the
theoretical; so there are two kinds of Alchemists, the labo­
ratory Alchemist and the library Alchemist. The latter claim
that all Alchemy is symbolical. This theory originated in
1850 when an English woman published anonymously a book
entitled “A Suggestive Inquiry Concerning the Hermetic
Mystery and Alchemy, Being an Attempt to Recover the
Ancient Experiment of Nature.” Soon it was followed in
1865 by another book to the same effect, by a Mr. Hitchcock,
in America, entitled “Remarks on Alchemy and the Alchem­
ists.”
These persons have many followers in both countries
today. But for untold thousands of years all Alchemists,
both library and laboratory, asserted that the science was a
material one; and history shows that it gave birth to both
chemistry and physics. The history of Alchemy also shows
that at different periods there were men who acquired great
fortunes without any other means of acquisition except
Alchemy and who claimed that the wealth came through their
knowledge of how to transmute baser metals into gold. This,
of course, shows that the hermetic art always has been a
physical science in addition to a philosophy. Dr. Waite in
his very entertaining book, “Lives of Alchemistical Philoso­
phers,” has given brief biographies of many historical Alche­
mists which confirm this statement.
The medieval Alchemists had to phrase all their hermetic
writings in theological terms for self-protection. This, natur­
ally, led many persons, who thought in symbols, to believe
that Alchemy was mental, or, as they said, spiritual, rather
than material. And such students first study and then teach
Alchemy only as a means of evolutionary unfoldment. A
symbolic mind can use almost any picture, or symbol, on
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY
which to hang any philosophy; and Alchemy lends itself read­
ily to symbolic interpretation by reason of its inherent nature.
One of the most prominent leaders of the Theosophical Move­
ment in Germany once called on me in Chicago to discuss
metaphysics. He demonstrated his conception of Occultism
by mathematics, starting with a point, then a line, and after­
wards, the circle. He had read extensively and thought
deeply, but took this method of demonstrating his conclusions.
It is such minds that claim all Alchemy is symbolic.
These people say they are studying, or teaching, “spiritual”
Alchemy. What is spiritual Alchemy? Many persons are
inclined to say a man, or woman, is spiritual when he, or she,
is very thin. If persons are anaemic, they are particularly
spiritual; or if they adopt certain diets and reduce thejr
weight, they are spiritual, or like a spirit, or a ghost. Half
of the people in the world who use the word spirit, or spiritu­
al, have no conception of the idea behind it. It does not
belong to any particular cult, or church, or to obeying the
“thou shalts” and the “thou shalt nots.” Nor is it subscrib­
ing to some particular creed, or adopting some theological
dogma; nor is it reading certain books, or participating in
certain ceremonials. Spirit is the Universal Mother God, and
spiritual is that which has the attributes of Spirit. What are
the attributes of Spirit? Three, and three only—Omnipres­
ence, Omniscience, and Omnipotence. An individual could
not be omnipresent, because only Deity, Itself, is that; but a
person may be spiritual just in proportion as he manifests
in his life something of omniscience and omnipotence—some­
thing of knowledge and of power. So when they speak of
spiritual Alchemy there is the intimation that it gives knowL
edge and power. In this sense they are correct. But as
generally used, that term is intended to convey the idea that
Alchemy is never material, but only philosophical.
The Hermetic Philosophy, or Alchemy, started one hun­
dred and twenty-five thousand years ago in Lemuria when
the Lesser Gods revealed the knowledge to the most ad­
vanced men of that race. It did not commence in Egypt, as
so many persons believe. Before Lemuria sank beneath the
waters of the Pacific, it was carried by the cream of the
Lemurians into India where it has been practiced, by the
few, ever since. But it was revealed to the elect of the
Atlanteans, also, who carried the art with them into North-
Digitized by b o o g i e
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY 11
era Africa just before Atlantis was submerged, and the Egyp­
tians were the heirs of this knowledge. As India became
decadent the best of the race traveled westward and met the
custodians of Atlantean knowledge where the knowledge of
the two races was combined.
When intellectual darkness settled on all the nations,
Arabia was the custodian of the sacred fire that kept some
knowledge and wisdom in the world. It is to Arabia, then,
that almost all Alchemists gratefully must look. This should
not be taken to mean that there were no Alchemists outside
that country during the Dark Ages, for there have been soli­
tary ones here and there. The word Alchemy is from the
Arabic, “Al” meaning the, and “kimia” meaning infusion, or
elixir; for the primary purpose of most Alchemists is not to
transmute baser metals into gold, but to find the Elixir of
Life. In other periods of history, other names were given to
the art; but the inspiration of the great adventure has always
been to control sickness and death, and all who have gained
their goal have been rewarded, more or less, by this power.
Metaphysical, or philosophical, Alchemy, under whatever
name it may be designated, contains certain cardinal prin­
ciples, the first of which is the unity of the universe, which is
one in essence. It is atomic, primarily, having two aspects,
the consciousness and the material sides, the latter being the
vehicle for the former. Out of this essence came force and
substance, mind and matter, in all their multitudinous mani­
festations. This primal essence is represented in the books
as mercury; for the Alchemists learned ages and ages ago,
by chemical experiments, that mercury is the mother of all
things and that even life itself is but subconscious mercurial
gas in motion.
The second principle of the philosophy is that there is but
one purpose in the universe—to evolve minds out of con­
sciousness, through many forms, and to develop the minds
thus made into higher and still higher grades. At times this
was taught openly, as evolution through reincarnation, and at
other periods this truth was veiled.
The third great principle of Alchemy was, and is, that this
is a universe of cause and effect. If these cardinal principles
are accepted, then every claim of the Alchemist must be
admitted to be at least logical. Some leading modern scien­
tists have been driven, inch by inch, to accept enough of
Digitized by b o o g i e
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY
these basic propositions to no longer scoff at Alchemy, but
to appreciate the pioneers in that field who laid the founda­
tions for much of our present knowledge.
Empedocles, the Greek philosopher and Alchemist, discov­
ered, or rediscovered, the four elements and named them.
Zosimus, the Theban Alchemist, invented sulphuric acid; and
I might go down the entire list, if we had the time. But it
is enough to say that Geber, the Arabian Alchemist, in the
Eighth Century, wrote a book entitled “Summit of Perfec­
tion,” in which he disclosed the chemical knowledge of the
Alchemists of his time. In that book is shown that those
men calcinated, boiled, dissolved, precipitated, sublimated,
and coagulated chemical substances. They worked then, as
chemists do now, with gold, mercury, arsenic, sulphur, salts,
and acids. Those Alchemists maintained then, as the ancients
did and the modern ones do, that all metals are compound
bodies having their origin in sulphur, salt, and mercury, in
differing proportions. This book became the textbogk on
Alchemy, which in its exoteric form, was taught in all the
great colleges in Arabia, and later, in the colleges of Spain
dominated by the Arabian thought and culture. This book,
still later, became the textbook on chemistry for Europe and
the world. Alchemy in its esoteric form, then and later, was
conveyed to students only under signs, symbols, and half-
truths, leaving to the patient, intuitive mind the interpreta­
tion of the symbols and the piecing together of the half-truths
into a complete science.
Most of the modern scientists, by reason of their childish
conceit, are still unwilling to admit that the ancients actually
accomplished their undertakings; but feel that the moderns
will reach the ideals of the ancient Alchemists. The Occultist
must continue to smile at such vanity, knowing, as he does,
that time will justify, not only the philosophy of Occultism,
but of all the Occult Sciences. This is not intended as a
sneer at the accomplishments of the modern scientists, but
as a caution to the intelligent student not to take too seri­
ously the claims of the present-day scientists that they have
all wisdom and success.
Nothing of basic importance has been discovered this
century which does not confirm the fundamental teachings
of Occultism. Take, for illustration, the theory of the elec­
trical nature of m atter and the method of its grouping. It
Google
ALCHEMY 13
well deserved the Nobel Prize, for it was a physical demon­
stration of the old Alchemistical doctrine, “As in the Macro­
cosm, so in the Microcosm.”
Sir Ernest Rutherford bombarded nitrogen gas with alpha
rays of radium and produced helium. This is transmutation
of m atter—done differently by the ancient Alchemists, but,
nevertheless, done. So, too, Dr. Gerald L. Wend and C. E.
Iron, of the University of Chicago, changed tungsten into
helium. In July, 1925, Dr. Adolph Meithe, followed by Dr.
Kurlbaum, passed electricity through mercurial vapor and
changed a part of it into gold. Professor Nagaoka, of Japan,
did the same thing. In the same year, Arthur Smits and A.
Karsen, of Amsterdam, decomposed lead and turned part of it
into gold. Is this not modern Alchemy? Why should any
modern man, scientist or skeptic, presume to say the ancient
Alchemists did not have the knowledge they claimed? Is
there but one way—the electrical—to transmute metals? /
Paracelsus, in his books on Alchemy, shows seven different
ways to produce the result for gold alone.
Remember what knowledge the ancient Alchemists admit­
tedly contributed to the world, and then think how they
accomplished their results with crude appliances and primi­
tive chemical aids; and give them their share of credit,
esteeming them, not as pretenders, but as men of honor and
of science who were able to formulate from experiments the
propositions which modern science confirms.
To be a successful student of laboratory Alchemy, one
first must acquire the philosophy of the subject, and then
live that philosophy until it transmutes one’s nature and
makes it conform to the ideals of the Occultist. This is not
a very easy thing to do, for such ideals are higher than those
of other cults and creeds, by reason of the very nature of the
subject and the power it confers when success crowns effort.
The Philosopher’s Stone is the objective of most students;
and when acquired and intelligently used, it confers physical
immortality at will. This astounding statement is confirmed
by my observation; for, incredible as it may appear, I know
of one Alchemist more than six hundred years old, and one
whose age is more than four hundred, and another whose age
is more than two hundred years; and all of these look and
function as do men in the prime of life at about forty years.
It can be seen from this that if a man’s character is not
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALI
14 ALCHEMY
good, if he is destructive in thought and evil in intent, he
could, in time, through similar natures, organize a hierarchy
of evil which, opposing the good, could delay evolution and
limit its constructive harvest. And, so, men of doubtful char­
acter are not permitted by Divine Law to achieve success in
the higher realms of Alchemy.
If I had to define Alchemy, I would call it an exposition
of nature’s evolutionary processes. For illustration, let us
use mercury once more, because you hear more about that
than anything else in Alchemy—unless it is the making*"©!
gold. If you understand one globule of mercury, its nature,
the forces that bind it together, and the chemical essences
within it, it will unlock the entire Universe to you. Mercury
is the key of the Universe, and that is the reason it is so
dominant in all books on Alchemy. The man who breaks
down a globule of mercury, to its ultimate, understands how
the world is created. And when he makes the Philosopher’s
Stone, he becomes a real creator, for he has made a little
world; and the process is identical in creating a Macrocosm
or Universe.
This element is not called mercury always. It had differ­
ent names in different languages. In the time of the Arabians
it was frequently called arsenic, which is not the arsenic
of medicine, but another name applied to mercury.
Alchemy is the mother of all sciences because in it is con­
tained the story of the creation of the world, the story of
matter, the story of mind. Were I going to picture it, I
would call laboratory Alchemy the illustration of the philoso­
phy of Alchemy. In other words, it is applied Metaphysics,
applied Philosophy.
There are two branches of laboratory Alchemy, the metal­
lurgy and the medical. The metallurgy pertains, of course,
to metals. Primarily, it is the extracting of metals from ores,
then extracting the essences from the metals, and, finally,
extracting oils from the essences. Those are the three steps
of analytic, metallurgy Alchemy. After one has succeeded
in reducing and finding out the ultimate nature of a metal,
then one can reassemble it. So that part of the science is
both analytical and synthetical. But instead of recreating the
same thing, one may break down the metal and find a number
of different elements and may reassemble some of them .to
make something else. Alchemists have had that knowledge
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY 15
for many cycles, and modern science is just beginning to
acquire and apply it.
To illustrate: Modern scientists can make gold, although
the United States Bulletin, on the subject, shows that it costs
more to make that metal than it is worth. For a long time
chemists thought that gold was an element, but now they
have accepted the alchemical statement that gold is a com­
pound. So, instead of doing as the modern physicist does,
putting mercury into a tube and passing an enormous amount
of electricity through it to get a trace of gold, the Alchemist
breaks down base metals and combines their essences to
make the precious metals in commercial quantities. Modern
science expects to do the same, and many of the brightest
minds in all nations are devoting their lives to experiments
along this line.
Professor Edwin Walter Kemmerer, of Princeton, Poland's
financial savior, warns that it is time to face the probability
of currency chaos caused by the discovery of synthetic gold.
A few years ago, just after the Great War, newspapers
throughout the world were announcing various discoveries of
methods to manufacture the precious metal; and many
nations feared that the chemists of Germany would succeed
in making gold in such large quantities that they could pay
their war debts with the manufactured, but depreciated metal.
The chemists of England gave a new turn recently to
transmutation when they asserted that they were trying to
change gold into tin and into copper, because the world’s
supply of gold seemed unlimited, while that of tin and of cop­
per would be exhausted within one hundred years. This
viewpoint is characteristic of England, because tin is an
English product. But that nation does not take into con­
sideration that the Andes Mountains of South America may
supply all English deficiency in tin and copper and all other
metals so necessary to the needs of future generations. Or,
if our English chemists would concede for a moment that the
Alchemists might have some knowledge, they would find in
Paracelsus’ books a process for transmuting iron into copper.
But nature has her own way of keeping her secrets which
she reveals to those only who serve her in her own way; and
so the modern Alchemists can afford to smile at the efforts of
the modern scientists to transmute metals commercially,
knowing that throughout the ages other bright minds have
Digitized by >gie Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY
made similar efforts and failed. In fact, many of the present-
day chemists and physicists are the same egos who in other
lives made unsuccessful efforts in the same direction. And
they will not succeed until they conquer their egotism and
imitate nature as the Alchemists do.
It is not only in regard to precious metals that Alchemists
flatter nature by imitation; they break down metals, extract
their oils, and reassemble their atoms as semi-precious
stones and as jewels and gems. There was not a crowned
head in Europe which did not wear jewels made by Count
St. Germain, for he was liberal with his presents to royalty,
with whom he was a great favorite. The best that modern
chemists have been able to do is to make small synthetic
jewels. Every one knows of the synthetic rubies and
emeralds of the present day. Some are very well done and
only experts can detect the false from the true. The modern
chemist is less fortunate in making diamonds, producing only
very small- ones. The handsomest jewels in India today were
never taken out of the ground; they are the products of
ancient and modern Alchemists.
On this part of Alchemy, the things I have said I know,
not from my own knowledge, but from hearsay—from other
Alchemists and from Occult books and records. Mrs. Ingalese
and I, so far, have only taken up the second branch of labo­
ratory Alchemy—medical Alchemy.
In this connection, I have a word of explanation to offer
in behalf of the nature of this lecture. For forty years Mrs.
Ingalese and I have shared with the world some of our experi­
ences and knowledge through our lectures and books. We
have tried always to keep our personalities in the back­
ground, as our works show. But, the very nature of this lec­
ture and its purpose require that for once I must break this
lifetime rule, for otherwise this lecture would be useless. My
purpose in giving it is to add the testimony of Mrs. Ingalese
and myself to the truth of the claims of the Alchemists as
far as our own experiences have gone. Those learned men
have been grossly maligned during the Nineteenth Century
and until the third decade of the present one. The only con­
cession made now by the wise(?) men of the present time is
that “the theories of the Alchemists were probably correct,
but they never realized their dreams.” And this statement is
reiterated in books, lectures, and classrooms, without the
Digitized by b o o g i e
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY 17
least evidence to support its latter portion. On the contrary,
tradition and circumstantial evidence all confirm the claims
of the ancients.
Our experience and our testimony are as follows: For
years we thirsted for the knowledge of how to cure disease
and to prolong life. We knew that a strong mind in a strong
body is essential to this purpose, and therefore we studied the
theories of every prominent school of medicine, and many of
those not prominent. None of these held out fulfillments of
our hopes. The nearest approach to our ideal was the Occult
School of Medicine. For seven years we studied in this
School, that being the time required to complete the course;
and we were well rewarded for our efforts, though we were
not taught how to prolong life indefinitely, or how to renew
youth. But we were taught how to cure disease with herbal
remedies and with the mind and Cosmic Forces. To save
answering innumerable' questions concerning this School,
let me say that Occult Medicine, like all the other Occult
Sciences, is not taught in a school building situated in any
particular place, but by graduates of the system who received
their knowledge from an individual teacher and who transmit,
in the manner in which they received them, the teachings
“from mouth to ear.”
No one is accepted as a pupil in this School who has not
studied Occult Philosophy for at least a period of seven
years, and who has not, in a great measure, lived what he has
learned. The teacher, alone, is the judge of the qualifications
of a pupil, and comes to him when, from an evolutionary
viewpoint, he is ready to be taught—the life and the mental
desire of the pupil attract the teacher.
Our study of Occultism and of Occult Medicine naturally
brought us in contact with the literature of Alchemy. It was
the one system that seemed to offer our hearts’ desire. Our
other work and our situation in life were such that we could
not essay the Hermetic Art at that time. And so we com­
menced to collect manuscripts and books on the subject and
to save our money for the great adventure. This was con­
tinued for more than a decade. We learned all we could
about the art, through literature and inquiry; but during
those years, we deferred the attempt to try out the theories
practically. But we made up our minds which branch of
the subject we finally would essay.
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY
We ascertained from the books that it was first requisite
to study metallurgic Alchemy in order to know how to reduce
metals for their oils. To illustrate: A globule of mercury
is fluidic. The first thing a metallurgist does is to remove
its metallic covering so as to “fix” its contents. Then the
“fixed” portion is reduced to powder, which, in turn, is again
reduced to an essence, and from that is extracted an oil. This
oil is then crystallized, after which it is ready for Alchemical
experiments. All. this is much easier described than done,
but it was necessary for us to have a definite idea of what we
desired to do to accomplish our purpose, and the works of
Paracelsus gave us this information. Some one has said,
“You can destroy all other books, because the wisdom of the
world is contained in Plato.” So, after years of research, we
say, “You can destroy all other books on Alchemy, for their
knowledge, and more, is contained in the Alchemical writ­
ings of Paracelsus.”
In 1911 we determined to put our conception of the teach­
ings of Paracelsus to laboratory tests and commenced our
experiments. Our quest was the Philosopher’s Stone, and
not the transmutation of metals. We had to learn, however,
the analytical side of metallurgic Alchemy, but went no
further in that direction. We never have made gold, nor
gems. That is a branch which is exceedingly interesting;
and when we have the leisure, we shall pursue that part of
the art. But we have seen and talked with those who
claimed success in that branch, and, knowing their char­
acters as we do, we have no reason to question their state­
ments; besides which, modern science confirms the possibil­
ity, and our studies show the probability. But we are not
oonvinced that the process is profitable. It is a question
which looms large whether the time, money, and incessant
labor devoted to this branch of the work would not produce
larger monetary returns in some other field of endeavor.
We are rather inclined to believe they would. But for the
sake of knowledge, we will some day master that branch
of the art.
After we established our laboratory and commenced our
experiments, it did not take us long to find that we had
enlisted, not only in a difficult study, but in a very expensive
one; and that our income would be overtaxed to meet the
requirements. It was therefore agreed that I should return
Original from
1
1y Qp CALIFORN
ALCHEMY 19
to the practice of law to supplement our resources and that
Mrs. Ingalese should pursue the experiments. There have
been women Alchemists in the past who have assisted
their respective husbands in the work, but I believe Mrs.
Ingalese was the first woman to take the initiative in the art;
and to her goes all the credit of the pioneer for the four
long years of solitary effort and for the final discovery of
how to make the Stone. My part was to produce the means
to carry on the work, to consult with my wife and to encour­
age her in the hours of disappointment and despair; and,
later, first to assist in the work, and then to relieve her of
the toil of bringing her results to perfection.
The essential theory of the Alchemists is that all metals
have oils and these oils are the spirits, or virtues, of the
metals. That was the first principle which confronted us,
and, necessarily, it was true or false. The examination of
the text-books on chemistry failed to disclose information on
this subject. Interviews with prominent chemists brought
denial of this theory; but I could not reconcile their denial
with the fact that petroleum products seemed to indicate
otherwise. I was told that such products were the results
of animal or vegetable deposits; but learned by later investi­
gation that this theory of science was incorrect, as is the
theory that coal and its oils are derived from the vegetable
world. But we were confronted with the fact that either
chemistry, or Alchemy, was mistaken, and we had to de­
termine the truth for ourselves.
As oil of gold was one of the four elements of the Philoso­
pher's Stone—according to the books—we naturally com­
menced to reduce gold. But gold at two hundred and forty
dollars a pound is an expensive thing to experiment with;
and, after a while it dawned on us that the principle would
be the same if we used copper at fifteen cents a pound.
So the experiments were transferred to the cheaper metal.
Three long, weary, heart-breaking years were devoted to
the pursuit for the red oil of copper, with never a ray of
light to bless the labor or to encourage hope. Nothing but
dogged determination held us to our purpose. One night,
during the fourth year, while I was at the Club, I received
a telephone message from my wife to come home at once as
she had “it,” which to us, of course, meant the oil. All
speed limits were broken reaching home, and Mrs. Ingalese
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
20 ALCHEMY
exhibited to me a brown substance that was hardening fast.
She pronounced it the red oil. of copper.
At the commencement of our endeavors, we had agreed
that we would try never to deceive ourselves and would not
hesitate to say what we honestly thought, because the easiest
thing in the world is to believe what one wants to believe.
Hard as it was, I had to say, “That liquid is neither red, nor
is it an oil; but it is greasy.” She replied, “When I ’phoned
you, it was a red oil; but it has hardened and oxidized.”
So there was nothing to do but to try again; and after
another experiment, she produced the oil of copper. When
we had that, we no longer cared what chemistry taught, nor
what chemists believed. The laboratory had told us that
the Alchemists were right.
I closed my office then, resigned from all my clubs,
stopped lecturing and writing and all social duties and pleas­
ures, and devoted my time to work in the laboratory with
my wife. We thought that victory was close at hand, but
found that it was still some years away. The fifth year gave
us the oil of sulphur; but not until we had many fires and
explosions and two asphyxiations. The sixth year produced
the oil of mercury, the basis of all Alchemy. By this time
we had sold all our securities and had two mortgages on our
home, but had determined to continue with the work until
we met with success, if it took this life and all subsequent
ones. But we had all the oils required to make the Stone,
and, thus encouraged, we tried to crystallize and fuse them.
In 1917 we succeeded in making the White Stone of the
Philosophers. It looked like soft, white marble, and its effect
upon the body was startling. We dared not try it on our­
selves at first. But there was a third member of our family,
a beautiful Angora cat of which we were very fond. We
took a vote to see which of the three should test out that
Stone, and the cat, neglecting to vote, was elected. It sur­
vived the first dose, and we repeated it on the two following
days, with the result that the cat became more frisky than
usual. After that we tried it ourselves, each taking a dose at
the same moment so we would excarnate together if it
should prove fatal. But it proved beneficial and energized
our bodies.
Shortly after that event, the wife of a prominent local
physician died; and the doctor, knowing of our experiments
VERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY 21
and that the books claimed that such a Stone, if used
within a reasonable time, would raise the dead, asked us to
experiment on the body of his wife. Half an hour had
elapsed since her death and her body was growing cold. A
dose of the dissolved White Stone was put into the mouth
of the corpse without perceptible result. Fifteen minutes
afterward a second dose was administered and the heart
commenced to pulsate weakly. Fifteen minutes later a third
dose was given and soon the woman opened her eyes. In
the course of a few weeks, the patient became convalescent,
after which she lived seven years.
Encouraged by this success, we redoubled our efforts to
make the Red Stone of the Philosophers, which is the one
most mentioned in Alchemical writings. This effort was
continuous from 1917 to 1920, when our quest was rewarded.
True, the product was crude, but it answered to every test
of a newly-made Stone; but it was so crude we were
unable to retain the first doses and had to refine it by
months of labor before it became suitable even for a weak
medicine.
Afterwards, we commenced to take the Red Stone regu­
larly twice a week. The dose, in size, was about as large
as an uncooked grain of rice; in Troy weight, less than half
a grain. The dose was very small, yet almost from the first,
the results were wonderful, and, during a series of years,
quite miraculous.
As I have remarked before, nothing is quite so easy as
self-deception; and to preclude this possibility, we had a
number of friends, including two physicians, to check the
effect of the Stone upon our bodies. For many months, the
symptoms were all subjective, such as renewed strength and
greater endurance. Then the effects were quite patent to
an observer; as, increased circulation of the blood, stronger
heart, better color, greater number of red corpuscles, and
other physical manifestations.
There were several elderly people whom we were under
obligations to help, in case our search proved successful, and
we offered to share the results of our efforts with them;
but, being wisely cautious, they preferred to wait until we
had tried out the Stone for a year. After that, our renewal
club was formed and we all took the magic medicine. We
called our group “The Renewal Club” because the books
Digitized by L j O c > Q L e
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A L C H E M Y
promised that the Red Stone, if persistently used for years,
would renew and restore the physical body to the perfection
of manhood, or womanhood. Seven years have passed, and
all the members of the group—except one—are manifesting
this truth in their bodies. The one member excepted was
more than eighty years of age when she commenced the
treatment. Her body was diseased; she did not follow
the directions; and she finally died from the action of
drugs, given to her by her dentist, which produced coma—
kidney disease being one of her complications.
At first the action of the medicine upon our group was
very slow because the Stone was weak; but as time passed,
its power increased with each elevation, until in January,
1926, it was perfected for medical purposes. Mrs. Ingalese
and I have not done as well as some of the other members
of the group because of the condition we were in when we
commenced the treatment. From 1911 to 1920, though having
the knowledge and the means to keep our bodies healthful,
we did not use mind or any medicine in that behalf because,
otherwise, we could not have known what effect the Alchem­
ical products would have on us.
From a physiological viewpoint, those were important
years in our lives, since our bodies had reached an age
when strict attention and care were necessary to prevent
quick deterioration. But, even under those conditions, our
bodies now attest the power of the Stone, as all who have
known us for the last two decades can testify.
The books, or manuscripts, claim that the Red Stone of
the Philosophers will cure any illness, and that after one has
taken it for five years one cannot contract any disease.
We desired to test the truth of that statement and tried the
Stone on many “incurables." The number of cases cured was
remarkable, but we found it not infallible.
Aside from personal benefit, the one reason we entered
upon the great quest was to know the truth about medical
Alchemy, which I would summarize as follows:
The Alchemists who wrote on the subject usually did so
within a period of a few years after obtaining the Stone.
The marvelous work done by it, for themselves and others,
stimulated their enthusiasm and warped their judgment. A
careful observation over a greater number of years and a
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
ALCHEMY 23
larger number of cases would have made them more
accurate. These good men had no intention to deceive, but
they spoke, or wrote, too soon.
Mrs. Ingalese and I both know that if the Stone is
administered to a young, or a matured, person in normal
health, it will prevent old age; that if given to a healthy
but aged person, it stops further physical deterioration and
starts him backward toward youth. From testimony of
creditable witnesses and corroborative evidence, we believe
that such cases reach perfected manhood and remain there
at the will of the possessor of the Stone. So, physical immor­
tality and perpetual youth are realities, and not dreams.
We know that the Stone restores virility in men at any
age, and normal desire in both sexes. If a woman has
recently passed her change of life, it restores all normal
functions of the sex organs. But, if she has long passed that
period, then, childbearing is out of the question.
The Stone is an aid in acute diseases, but cannot be relied
upon alone to cure since its action is too slow. In chronic
cases, where there are no complications and fair vitality, its
action is certain in any disease; where there are complica­
tions and low vitality, other aids are advisable. Of course
I am assuming in the foregoing statements that the person
using the Stone also exercises common sense in regard to
eating, drinking, sleep, and work. If one disregards all laws
of hygiene and misuses mind and body, then one must take
the consequences of one's thoughts and acts; for there is
no vicarious atonement either in medicine or in morals. If
a person desires longevity and youth, he must obey the rules
in the Chapter on Immortality in “The Greater Mysteries."
It was the implicit faith in the power of the Stone to cure
any and all diseases, under every circumstance, that caused
the death of many ancient and modern Alchemists; while
their more conservative and wiser brothers used all aids to
restore health, and then utilized the Stone to perpetuate life,
health, and youth, for centuries.
I have been asked often if it were not the mind, or faith,
of the patient which produced the marvelous results in the
cases we have observed. I answer, “No," because some of
them did not know what they were taking, and others did
not believe in its power but took it as a “forlorn hope."
Origina
UNIVERSITY 0
ALCHEMY
This is our testimony in behalf of Alchemy and the Al­
chemists, which each person may accept, or reject, according
to his conviction, until such time as our bodies, now sixty-
five and seventy-three years of age, respectively, by their
youth and vigor, will compel acceptance of our statem ents.
igitized b;
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by ‘ o Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Astrology and H ealth
R i c h a r d I n g a l e s e
r «
Go gl
Google
C o p y r i g h t 1928
By
RICHARD INGALESE
Los Angeles, Cal.
Digitized by Go*.>gle Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Astrology and Health
M odern A s t r o l o g y may be said to have had its
origin sometime between the years 75 A.D. and
150 A.D., because it was at that time the Egyp­
tian Ptolemy wrote his four memorable books
___________ on Astral influences. He wrote a number of
other treatises, some of which covered Astrological subjects;
later all m atter pertaining to Astrology was collected and
published with the four books mentioned under the title,
“The Influence of the Stars,” and became, largely, the basis
for modern Astrology. The text was in Greek as were most
scientific writings at that time.
Like all Occultists, prior to the Nineteenth Century,
Ptolemy purposely wrote ambiguously. It was the policy
for Occultists to use words to partially conceal thoughts so
th at only intuitive persons could interpret their meaning;
the theory being that people who were not intuitive enough
to perceive the inner meaning of what was written or said
were not ready for the higher truths. That is no longer
true. From the beginning of the Nineteenth Century it has
been the policy of Occultists to deliver their messages plainly
or to let them remain Occult or unrevealed.
Unfortunately for modern Astrology, the works of
Ptolemy have been and are construed in many ways, giving
rise to many theories concerning Astrological matters. Un­
fortunately, too, Ptolemy did not emphasize the fact that
the influence of the stars was but one aspect of Astrology.
And that there were others pertaining to motion, weight,
chemistry and other m atters which the ancients knew, and
which we now call Astronomy. But he was so anxious to
preserve the fact that there was an occult influence, that
this influence was emphasized at the expense of the material
side. He knew the world was entering the cycle of darkest
materialism that it will ever pass through. He knew the
3
ijgitized bj Gc
k>gle Origirkal from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h
Piscean Age was the age of darkness, the age of m aterialism
—called by the Eastern Occultists Kaliyuga, the Black or
Iron Age, the age of ignorance—but his books and students
helped to keep the light burning through the Dark Ages of
Europe, even when the anathema m aranatha of the Church
was hurled against everybody and everything Occult. A fraid
but not deterred, the students of the Occult spoke, wrote and
communicated from mouth to ear, when no other way was
available, the truths of Astrology.
Ancient Astrology was that body of teachings, concern­
ing the influence of the stars, given prior to the time of
Ptolemy. Josephus, the Jewish historian, tells us that As­
trology commenced when God conveyed, through intuition,
such knowledge to Adam, and Adam to Seth, and Seth and
his descendants to all the nations whom the Jews contacted
while in slavery and when free. Everything contained in
ancient Jewish history, as recorded by Josephus and the
Old Testament—for they are nearly the same—has an ele­
ment of truth in it, if one is able to see facts behind the
legends. They could not be true, literally of course, because
Josephus did not know that there had been myriads of men
and hundreds of nations long before the Jews came into
existence. We know that now. We know that the Jews did
not impart the knowledge of Astrology to the Babylonians,
the Egyptians and other ancient nations, but on the con­
trary, like the bee, they took from each nation they were
brought in contact with, that which they desired. The mean­
ing behind the statement of Josephus is, that the first men
who reached the thinking point in their evolution, were in­
structed by the lesser Gods in reference to the influences of
the stars upon the destiny of men and nations. When a
person, through the slow course of evolution, passes from
manhood to sainthood and from sainthood to godhood in his
development on the seven planets of a planetary system, he
then, in the next cosmic day, goes to some new system of
planets and becomes the teacher of undeveloped men there;
just as graduates of colleges undertake to teach thousands
who do not know as much as they do; first in lower graded
schools and after a while in higher grades. So, when a man
is ready, the teacher always is present to convey knowl­
edge; but the teacher is the judge of when a man is ready.
The highest truths that could be taught primitive man
were a knowledge of the stars and their symbolism. The
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A str o lo g y a n d H e a l t h 5
people in that way acquired a knowledge of the operation
of the laws of nature, of man’s relationship to man, to God
and to nature. In point of fact, then, instead of Astrology
originating as a science among the Jews, it started with
the more enlightened men among the Lemurians who in
their turn became the teachers of their race; and before sin-
soaked Lemuria sank beneath the waters of the Pacific
Ocean, the cream of their remote descendants settled in
India and founded a high civilization which, for ages, pre­
served the arts and sciences. Later the Celestial Custodians
of Wisdom taught the advanced men of Atlantis the science
of Astrology; before the immoral and depraved Atlanteans
were submerged with their Continent in the Atlantic Ocean,
some of the more enlightened inhabitants were taken to
North Africa and the remainder to Central America to lay
the foundation for new nations where it was hoped wisdom
would be enthroned. Thus the knowledge was diffused
throughout the world.
In ancient times the Astrologer was the priest, the
teacher, the law-giver, the friend; he was the power behind
the throne having greater influence than the King himself.
I notice that the corporate name of this society is, The
F irst Temple and College of Astrology. Whether it was
named for historic reasons or from some sub-conscious mem­
ory, I know not, but temples were places where persons re­
ceived their religion and the knowledge of the sciences.
Everything, then known, was taught within the temples by
the astrological priests.
There is a divergence between ancient and modern As­
trology, as some of you know, and it may be well for a
moment to touch upon the differences between them, for the
benefit of those who do not know.
In the first place the ancient Astrologer was always a
philosopher. Philosophy is the fundamental of all real
sciences; for philosophy is the science which gives a mean­
ing to knowledge and to life. And without philosophy
science dies. Therefore, among the ancients every student
of Astrology was required, first, to ground himself in Occult
Philosophy so that he might understand the nature and
causes of the influences of the stars. It was only through
Occult Philosophy that the student could acquire the judg­
ment to interpret a horoscope after he had erected it. All
religions were the outgrowth of such aspects of Occult
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h
Philosophy as the Astrologer-priests gave to the people,
according to their receptivity—each religion becoming in
time, as all do, corrupted and materialized. Then a new
revelation had to be made, new knowledge given out.
The reading of a horoscope is applied philosophy. The
mere mathematics and mechanics of Astrology are as unre­
vealing as Astronomy. W hat difference does it make to the
hungry heart what aspect Jupiter is in to the rising sign?
W hat a person wants to know is how the astrological influ­
ences are affecting his character; how these influences may
enable him to meet the problems of life; how he can over­
come the defects in his character. It is interesting enough
to know that there is a marriage indicated; or that wealth
may come at a certain time; and that one may be successful
in business; but all that is incidental. The real purpose of
Astrology is to develop the human soul, and that is the
reason it has persisted through untold centuries. The vital­
ity of its truth is so great, its purpose so noble, that its
science cannot be crushed by man, by adversities, by evil.
It must always live. And when today the modern astrologer
looks to Occult Philosophy to explain life, and says to those
who come to him: ‘‘Your natal figure shows the totality
of your accomplishments in all the lives that you have
lived; it also shows the weaknesses that you have not over­
come. I will help you to understand yourself, to meet con­
ditions as they arise, in order that you may climb to higher
and better things,” the more that Astrologer will be held in
respect and occupy the position of reverence that his prede­
cessors had in ages long since gone by. Mankind has almost
no place of refuge, comfort and peace at the present time.
If a man goes to the priests he gets stones, not bread. W hat
can the modern priest give him except theology? W hat can
he give that appeals to the intellect? W hat can he do to
show the purpose of God in nature? W hat can he do to
elucidate evolution and man’s place in the universe? Noth­
ing. All he can do is to cry: “Have faith, have faith.” Why,
he is like a fortune teller on the Midway, or the Ocean piers,
and deals entirely in the future; has nothing to give except
predictions of what he says will happen in the great here­
after.
“Have faith?” We don’t want faith, we want knowledge.
So the sufferer can’t go to the priest and lay all the burdens
of a troubled heart at his feet. Even the confessional, which
Digitized by Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h 7
came originally from the confidence established between the
Astrologer and the people, and which was later adopted by
various religions at different periods of history—even the
confessional today has lost the power to comfort because the
man who goes there knows there is no light to be gotten
from the darkened theological mind of the priest. He can­
not go to his lawyer and tell him his troubles—I mean the
troubles of the heart, the troubles of the spirit. You know
the lawyers are nothing but mercenaries; that the lawyer
fights, if he is honest, for the first man who employs him,
and if he is not honest, for the man who pays him the most.
Mercenaries, mercenaries—you cannot unburden your heart,
you cannot reveal the secrets of your soul to them. Often
even married people cannot talk with entire confidence to
each other; and frequently children cannot ask their parents
to help them with their problems. To whom are the people
going? My friends, you have no idea of the number of
hungry hearts in the world. People want somebody they
can trust, somebody with light to lead them. They don’t
want blind leaders, they want instruction; they want some­
body who has a philosophy that will explain life so they can
meet their problems. They cannot go to the doctors for all
know them. Are you at all surprised when you read the
papers and see the enormous amount of atheism that is
growing up throughout the world? The morning paper
states that in Germany, alone, from 1910 to 1925, there has
been an increase of 1,351,000 people having no religion; and
the other nations are no better off. In our own country we
have atheistic societies that are growing up everywhere, in
our schools, our colleges and among the people. Why? Be­
cause no one is giving them light. We have desperate men
and despairing women; people who court death by going on
adventures that promise more chances of death than life—
not only the flyers but in every line—because they have
nothing to live for and life means nothing to them. Every
country has suicide clubs. Think of a civilization that
brings such results! And yet, people don’t turn to the
Occult where they might get the comfort, the assistance, the
knowledge that could be had. Re-establish the position you
and your predecessors held, my friends of astrology, so that
you may have the confidence of the people and help them.
Share the philosophy and the knowledge that you have, with
those who come to you, then you and your science will be
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
8 A str o lo g y a n d H e a l t h
restored to pristine glory. That is the spiritual health you
have to give. You cannot minister to bodily ills until you
have satisfied the soul, the mind. A troubled heart is in­
finitely worse than a leaky heart. Philosophical astrology
gives spiritual health, and it is our duty as astrologers to
interpret horoscopes in such a way that we can give the
spiritual uplift.
The second difference between the past and the present,
between esoteric and exoteric astrology, as I see it, is the
recognition that Astrology applies only to the astral mind.
By “astral mind” the ancients meant that which is now
called by many terms. Some call it the objective m ind;
some call it the animal mind; some call it the conscious
mind and some call it the mortal mind. But, whichever line
of philosophy you have been studying, it means that mind
which pertains to the lower man. Now, Astrology, astral
influence, can only control the astral mind; therefore, if a
person comes to you for advice the first thing you must do,
if you desire to follow in the footsteps of the ancients, is to
read the character shown by that horoscope and find whether
or not the person is developed or undeveloped. If undevel­
oped, then you can with confidence and certainty tell him all
the critical affairs of his life; for the astral mind, the lower
mind is so impulsive that it unfailingly reacts to astral im­
pulses. You know exactly what that person will do. To
the undeveloped man or woman the horoscope is w ritten
destiny.
But the problem comes when you find a strongly mixed
character, where the subjective mind is struggling with the
animal or objective mind to get the supremacy over it; try ­
ing to exercise self-control. Then it becomes a very great
problem, and it is just at that point in man’s career th at
Astrology is of tremendous value, of as much value at such
a time as a chart is to a mariner. If we are struggling
against our animal selves, and our horoscope shows that
under certain conditions and at certain times we have de­
basing influences to combat, we are put upon our guard and
can struggle intelligently, with forethought and with a
directness that we do not possess when we are ignorant of
what these impulses are that surround and impel us to act
in a given way. Astrology is intended for the struggling
soul who is part man and part animal and it is such a one
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A str o lo g y a n d H e a l t h 9
who receives the greatest benefit; and does that not mean
the minority but important part of mankind?
Then again, those of you who have gone more deeply
into Astrology know that every planet has a double influ­
ence. It has a good influence upon the higher mind, an un­
fortunate effect upon the lower. For example, Uranus.
Many of the books say that Uranus is the great destroyer,
the great evil planet. Believe me, the man who has ad­
vanced, or is advancing, has no greater friend among all the
stars than Uranus. To the man whose animal nature is
supreme, Uranus is the great punisher, the great instructor.
Therefore, you must always judge every nativity by the
character displayed by the horoscope.
The developed man, the man of self-control, having con­
quered, transmuted and absorbed his astral or lower mind,
is no longer adversely influenced by the stars. He is con­
scious of their forces playing upon him, but at the most
they are only tendencies which he may use or disregard;
hence the astrological adage: “A wise man rules his stars, a
foolish man is governed by them.”
In the third place, the ancients differed from the mod­
erns, or very many of the moderns, by erecting their horo­
scopes in accordance with the actual position of the planets
in the heavens. Modern astrologers assume that the starting
point in the Science is the no degrees of Aries. This,
as you must know, makes an enormous difference in the
horoscope. I am not here tonight to tell you which is the
better system. I am only stating the difference between
esoteric and exoteric Astrology; the esotericist would erect
his figure from a nautical almanac while the exoteric, or
modern astrologer, would erect it from an ephemeris. But
don’t do as so many have done, erect a figure with an
ephemeris and then use the nautical almanac to watch the
transits. Take one or the other, or, better still, take both
and see how the great events of your life fit in with each
figure, then select that which seems to you the most scien-
Another point of difference between the ancient and
modern, the esoteric and the exoteric if you choose, is that
the ancient, or esoteric, did not, and do not now, believe in
progressed figures. They erect the horoscope according to
the actual position of the planets at the moment of birth,
and they tell the past, present and future by the movements
tific.
Original
10 A str o lo g y a n d H e a l t h
or transits of the planets, which bring the magnetic centers
within the horoscope into activity and influence the event
they typify.
But it was not only because of spiritual healing by
Astrology in ancient times that it appealed to men, but also
for the reason that upon the physical plane the astrologers
were the physicians of the people. I think that the modern
astrologers have overlooked a great deal when they have not
stressed health more than they have. All the new cults of
the present day owe much of their strength to their healing
systems. Most ancient religions were founded upon healing
processes. When the Nazarine took up his mission the
people said, in substance: “Show us signs; show us w hat
you can do in the healing art; let us see if you are a man
of intelligence, a man of knowledge and power, and if you
are we will follow you.” And the men and women of Los
Angeles say substantially the same today: “Give us some
practical results; show us that you have some knowledge;
show us that you can minister to the body and then we
will believe you can minister to the soul.” Now, if our
modern astrologers had emphasized the fact that Astrology
teaches the highest form of medicine and can perform cures
that at least are equal to any modern cults, Astrology would
have as large a following as they. I think you have over­
looked a tremendous opportunity; because, from time im­
memorial Astrology has shown how to diagnose disease,
and then, having diagnosed it, has shown how to cure it.
It was only up to the Nineteenth Century that Astrology was
not the basis of even modern medicine. Before that time a
man had to become an astrologer in order to become a prac­
titioner; he needed it and it was insisted upon. Why have
we relegated that to other branches of science? Why have
we said to this or that school of medicine: “You may heal,
but I will prophesy.” If we heal first and prophesy afte r­
wards then we appeal to the people of the world. And
astrologers can today diagnose disease in a most marvelous
manner. It is not necessary for me to go into that fully, for
astrologers, but for you who are not acquainted with the
Science and are here tonight because you want to know
something about the subject, I would say this: through age
after age of medical experience and experimentation astrol­
ogers have found that the human body could be scientifically
divided into twelve parts, or zones, and that each part was
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h 11
influenced by one of the signs of the Zodiac. All of you re­
member the old Almanacs with the picture of the signs
pointing to different parts of the body. That symbol is age
old. But not only do the zodiacal signs affect the body of
man, but the planets also have an effect upon him; so
there are those two elements to be taken into consideration
in determining your diagnosis. The signs have a threefold
rule that must be remembered in making a correct diagnosis.
The first one is called the structural rule, namely that the
bones of the body, its structural part, is governed by certain
signs of the Zodiac.
For instance, the cranium and facial bones are governed
by Aries. If the structural part of the body is affected
then an adjustment of the bones is made. Bone setting is
as old as mankind and probably was the first form of physical
relief. It fell into disuse for a time largely from the lazi­
ness of practitioners; but recently has been revived under
the name of Osteopathy and of Chiropractic.
Not only was there a structural rule, but there was an
external and internal rule of the various parts of the body
by the signs of the Zodiac; the external rule of the head
and face, once more, for illustration, was Aries. Then the
internal rule of the head and Aries is found governing the
brain and the membranes of the head. Now certain por­
tions of the head were also affected by the planets pertain­
ing to the signs. In that way an astrologer, by casting
your horoscope and watching the first, fourth, sixth and
tenth houses and their rulers, is able to tell you, with rea­
sonable precision, just what is the m atter with you—and
that is a great deal more than can be done by the modern
physician. Dr. Cabot, who has written the greatest modern
book on diagnosis, the one used in every medical college in
America, says: Post mortem examinations show that almost
fifty per cent of diagnoses made by physicians were er­
roneous. And I think I can safely say if it were not for
the errors of the physicians, you would not have heralded
such celebrated cures by many of the present cults. Now
Astrology will accurately diagnose the disease. But it is
one thing to find out what it is, and another thing to cure
it. Astrology comes to your relief here also. For instance,
take the case of catarrh of the head. How would you pro­
ceed? We have found that Aries rules the head; we know
that Mars is at home in Aries and that Mars governs cer-
igitized b
yG ck>gle Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
12 A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h
tain plants. The next step is to find out what plants he
governs and how to apply them to the affected p art; and
here again comes a dual system of treatm ent. It is called
by sympathy and by antipathy. A treatm ent by sympathy
is nothing more nor less than treating through the system
that is now called homeopathy. All these modern schools
are only outgrowths of the ancient school of Astrology.
For instance: Mars ruling the membranes of the head, the
planets under Mars would effect a cure of diseased mem­
branes. Find out by your list, or through your knowledge
of botany, that anemone, for instance, is under the rule of
Mars. Then, by extracting the juice of that wild flower and
inhaling it, the juice would soothe the membrane and cure
the disease.
But we have also the other system—the one called curing
by antipathy; that is to say, applying plants ruled by the
planet opposite. For instance, in the case cited, Venus is
opposed to Mars and by using a plant under Venus, say
alkanet, and making an ointment and inhaling it until the
membrane is covered a cure would be effected. That as­
trological system is now called allopathy, which means cur­
ing by opposites. You haven’t anything modern in medicine,
except surgery, that the ancients did not have in better
form; and surgery is a confession by the modern physician
that he has lost the art of healing, which he is pretending
to practice. Is he not then taking money under false pre­
tense? W hat would you think of a watchmaker who, after
examining your watch, would say: “There is something
wrong with a wheel here, but I don’t know what it is or
how to fix it, so I must take it out and throw it away”?
Would this treatm ent improve the watch? How would you
rate the intelligence of such a man? But is not that exactly
what the modern Doctor is doing when he says: “I don’t
know how to cure it, so I will take out the affected part and
throw it away”? The day is not far distant, as I shall
show you, in a few minutes, when the populace will stand
aghast at the ignorance of the graduates of the orthodox
schools of medicine; and will revoke all the unjust laws
which give special privileges to such practitioners. Curing,
not destroying and removing, is the art of Occult medicine
which will come soon again into its rightful honor.
At present astrologers have lost touch with the public so
far as curing disease is concerned because modern schools
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A str o lo g y a n d H e a l t h 13
of medicine have, by propaganda, succeeded in having spe­
cial laws passed for the benefit of their particular trusts
and making it a crime for astrologers to practice. If any
of you diagnosed a case by Astrology, or recommended any­
thing that would cure the afflicted, you could be put in jail
and fined for giving that help. So your knowledge cannot
be used for the benefit of humanity at present; but, my
friends, the day is very near when those restrictions will be
forever wiped away.
In 1616 a great Occultist was born and when he became
a physician he determined to devote his life to showing
people how to use herbs for the purpose of curing disease.
To do this he wrote one of the greatest books on medical
botany that exists. I refer to Dr. Nicholas Culpeper of Eng­
land. There is more information in that one book on curing
disease by physical means, than in all the treatises that
have been written since his time to the present day. His
book is called The British Herbal. You older astrologers
know it. All should become acquainted with it; for in that
book he takes each plant that grows in Great Britain—and
most of them grow in California—and he tells you the
planet it is under, describes the plants so you can go out
into the fields and collect them for yourselves; tells you how
to prepare them into medicine; how to administer the medi­
cines and what results you may expect. I know of no other
book that does that in such a plain, popular way. If you
cannot diagnose, even if you know nothing about Astrology,
you can at least use Dr. Culpeper’s book and find out what
herbs to gather, or buy, to cure the disease you may have.
That knowledge may be worth your time in coming here
tonight—you always get something, every time you go to
an Astrological lecture.
Not only one plant, but many plants are under the same
planet; therefore, if one is not available, get another. But
to get the best results, go into the fields and learn what
the plants are. Collect them yourself; if you are an As­
trologer collect them at the hour of the ruling planet; if
you are not an Astrologer, then collect them in the Spring
of the year and you will be pretty safe. Some of you do
it now; some of you are fam iliar with Culpeper. I know one
Physician and Surgeon in your Society who has the best
collection of Culpeper’s works that I have seen in the West.
He is licensed by California’s laws to practice medicine, but
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h
prefers the Occult method of healing. I have seen him in
the fields collecting herbs and I have seen him in his labora­
tory preparing those herbs, and that is the reason he is so
successful in his practice.
There is one thing to which I especially wish to call your
attention. In no book on Astrology, in no system of Occult
healing or of Occult medicine do you ever find that poison
is used. Remember that. Poison is not killed by poison.
A fire in a house is not put out by starting a fire in another
part of that house. When you are poisoned you want to
eliminate that poison, not augment it. Most of the schools
of medicine use poisons. Astrology never does.
Commence now, fellow students, to prepare yourselves to
take up the practice of Astrological medicine, so as to be
of service to mankind in the New Day. You have the
books, you can acquire the knowledge; but remember that
books and knowledge amount to nothing unless service is
joined with them. Place yourselves at the service of man­
kind as soon as the opportunity will let you, which will be
within two years. How do I know that it will come so
soon? I know it in various ways. I know from my knowl­
edge of Astrology and from the Occult Sciences and Philoso­
phy; and if you want me to forecast how this materialistic
age will end; if you want to know how this materialism
must die, I will tell you. Within two years, and I think
c-on siderably—within two years the lately signed armistice
will be ended. You understand what an armistice is? Armis­
tice is not peace; armistice is armed enmity, waiting for an
opportunity to renew hostilities. And that is exactly what
exists today. There was no treaty of peace after the Great
War, merely an armistice; and within two years Europe
once more will be in a struggle to the death. That is as
certain as that the stars in the heavens move in their orbits.
Only one thing can prevent it and that is that our planet
may enter the orbit of a dead planet before hostilities begin.
But as it now looks, I scarcely think that probable. There­
fore, I look for the death struggle of European nations.
Before that struggle ends in annihilation, this earth will
swing into the orbit of the dead planet that I told you about
in my address last February. The Society now has printed
for you copies of that address. There is a dead planet in
space that has been seen at times, whose orbit the earth
gitized by
Google Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
A str o lo g y a n d H e a l t h 15
touched about a thousand years ago, and, historically, you
know the resultant epidemics.
Our earth again will swing into and stay within the in­
fluence of that planet for a period of almost two years com­
mencing sometime within the next twenty-four months—I
don’t want to be too specific in that respect—but first let
me say that I believe the intelligent minority in America
will keep us out of the fight the next time. Big business
may try to force us into it as it did the last time, but I
think we learned a bitter lesson then and henceforth and
forever we will keep out of European entanglements. I
even doubt if Canada and Australasia, as nations, will come
to the relief of their mother country, for circumstances will
shape themselves so that even though they want to they
won’t be able to, in time. Please remember this forecast.
It is being reported in shorthand, and this Society will have
it published within the next two or three months so you can
check it up as events occur, and be convinced—if you are
not so already—of the reliability of Occultism. The speaker,
and not this Society, is responsible for these statements,
however.
Since the beginning of this century, the nations of Europe
have been preparing for a death struggle, and it came.
Everybody expected it. It came, because whatever every­
body expects always comes. The law of mental attraction
brings it. Humanity has passed its childhood days and has
come to the age of responsibility. Hundreds of books have
been written in this century, in all languages, and circulated
among all classes of people in all nations, explaining clearly
the law of mind. No intelligent person can truthfully claim
ignorance of the subject. But, even if it were otherwise,
ignorance of the law, human or divine, excuses no one.
Everything is first created on the mental plane and later
materializes on the physical plane. And so the world pic­
tured war; thought war; planned war; and war materialized.
Then the most barbarous practices since the time of the
Indian wars in America took place. Men even got upon
their knees and in their churches prayed to the same Al­
mighty God to help them find devilish devices to destroy
their fellowmen. All nations prostituted Science in order
that engineers might invent devilish mechanisms that would
do greater damage than ever had been done before. Chem­
istry was prostituted, so that science which was intended to
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
16 A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h
be constructive, became destructive; and poison gases were
invented, and greater and more poisonous gases continued
to be invented, and enemies prayed to the same God to give
them knowledge of still more poisonous gases in order that
they might destroy their fellowmen by wholesale. And then,
in the midst of that hell came the armistice.
Ever since the armistice you have heard about “the next
war,” for they are creating it again in Europe and all know
it is coming. The next war will be worse than the former
one. Nations know it; they are preparing for it. The
chemists now are concocting their poison gases, and the
rulers tells us that in the next war they will convert manu­
facturing plants into poison gas plants. They will use all
poisonous matter for the purpose of trying to wipe out en­
tire communities. Heretofore, women, children, old men and
unarmed cities were always exempt in times of war. It
was not permissible to attack a city that had no fortifica­
tions and that did not offer armed resistance. But they tell
us that in this next war all commercial plants will be
drafted and converted into destructive agencies, and there­
fore there will be no exempt cities. Men, women and chil­
dren, those who have been wounded, those in the hospitals,
all will be proper subjects for death by mutilation and by
poison gases and poisoned food and water. This is tacitly
agreed to by the law of nations as a logical result from
analogous precedents.
Europe, Asia and parts of Africa are deliberately plan­
ning these atrocities against each other, actuated by jealousy,
fear and hate. The Americans are doing the same, largely
through fear, but against no specific enemy at present. Fel­
low students, let us follow these mental processes of the
world to their logical conclusions. The founder of Churchian-
ity, Paul, said: “Be not deceived; God is not mocked; for
whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.” Of
course, this is incompatible with the vicarious atonement
dogma of that Church, but it rests in sound philosophy. The
wise and compassionate Teacher, whom Paul thought he
was following, is said to have given his disciples this occult
law. “Judge not, that ye be not judged. For with what
judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what
measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again.” These
are not empty words, though a short-sighted world thinks
otherwise. It is an expression of inexorable law. Let us
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
A s t r o l o g y a n d H e a l t h 17
see the exquisite nicety with which the judgment scales are
balanced.
Man's greatest united demand, at this time, is that his
enemy—his brother—may be slain. While the next war is
on and man is destroying man, his homes and land, his
dynamic thought will be aided by outraged nature; and
earthquakes, fires, floods, famine and winds will aid in the
holocaust. It is one of the fundamental principles of
psychology that whatever the mind dwells upon it attracts.
When untold millions of minds are in the destructive cur­
rents creating death and demolition, only those results can
ensue; for God is bound by the laws of His own nature. If
a man throws a rubber ball against a house and the ball in
the rebound hits and hurts the man, shall he blame the
house? Why try to hold God responsible for the stupid
thoughts and acts of man? Much of the physical disturb­
ances of the last two decades is due to the mental creation
of man; and the mental plane is crowded now with em­
bryonic disasters fighting for physical expression. Man by
the constancy of his evil thoughts has upset the equilibrium
of the forces in and around the world which now must react
upon him, and the newspapers will be compelled to record
the ever-increasing misery and ruin caused by such forces
as they seek to re-establish their normal condition. And
this will continue until the minds, creating the causes, have
been swept, as an effect, out of physical life. This always
has been true, but it is more marked at this time because
man now thinks further and more clearly and is united
more in his chief thought.
The materialist may scoff at this explanation of mag­
netic disturbances, but as he delves more deeply into science
and understands better the nature of force, mind and mat­
ter, he will be compelled to accept this conclusion.
Of all agencies of which man is conscious at present, he
is relying more and more upon poison gases for quick and
effective destruction, and upon the air to enable him to use
them. The mental demand for destructive poisonous gases
cannot be ignored. It must be met, for it is law; and the
dead planet referred to can and will supply unlimited quan­
tities of poison gas from its dead and disintegrating body.
These gases will envelop everything that lives and breathes
upon the earth and will penetrate the earth itself. Some of
these gases Mother Earth sadly needs at this time. For
Original from
NIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
Digitized by G o o g l e
18 A str o lo g y a n d H e a l t h
illustration: The sulphur gas from the dead planet, com­
bining with the acids soaked into the earth for ages, from
the emanations of man’s evil, immoral and destructive
thoughts, will produce diluted sulphuric acid which will kill
the vermin, parasites, poisonous insects and reptiles, as well
as all destructive animals. Other gases entering into chemi­
cal combinations, will sweeten the ground itself which is
now so acid that it would soon fail to sustain human life if
relief from some source did not come. This is shown by the
fact that all vegetable foods now have to be sprayed with
poisons because of the ever-increasing parasitical life—the
product of such acids. Acids can make a sick world as well
as a diseased human body; and destructive thoughts create
acid conditions, as is shown by the chemical changes in an
angry man’s saliva and in the other fluids of his body.
But helpful as some of these gases may be to the earth,
they will not be so good for man. The sulphur and other
gases, combining with man’s acid-soaked body—the result of
wrong thought and unwise living—will play havoc with him.
An Occultist thus knowing the law, can safely forecast
that destruction will come to man from pulmonary troubles
within the next four years; and by the end of five years,
unless there is an inconceivable reformation, there will not
be left upon the earth ten per cent of its humanity. Only
those who have clean thoughts and clean bodies can survive,
and it behooves us to put our houses in order.
I do not mean to say that a body must be entirely alka­
line, but I do say that when acid is in excess in the body and
the gases come, they will prove fatal. In these forecasted
events, therefore, can be seen the inexorable law of demand
and supply. Man must learn to govern himself and his
thoughts.
Envy, jealousy, hate and fear sent by one man, or one
nation, to another man, or nation, are not overcome by simi­
lar thoughts sent back; for evil added to evil only produces
more evil. “But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless
them that curse you, do good to them that hate you.” So
simple! And yet, myriads of human lives could have been
saved had that admonition been heeded; or, to appeal to the
Twentieth Century man, how many billion dollars could have
been saved; how much better business it would have been
to have harkened to those words; how much more “efficient!”
n
OF t
A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h 19
Is that Occult statement true? As true as the law of
nature—which it is.
Envy, jealousy, hate and fear are lower emotions, mani­
festing as red vibrations. Love is a higher emotion manifest­
ing as blue or yellow vibrations, according to its quality.
The higher vibrations, as seen clairvoyantly, deflect the
lower or return them to their source to do their destructive
work. Very simple from an Occult viewpoint. But, how
could the world accept so profound an Occult truth coming
from such a simple man? The world thinks the Gods are
ignorant and unfortunate in Their selection of messengers.
It says, “Why was not that truth given out by the wise
scientists of that day; or by the orthodox Church; or by some
one in an influential position? Why was not that truth
couched in profound, learned and impressive language? Can
it be that all the truth, moral and physical, is simple and
can only be comprehended and conveyed by a sincere, pure
and honest mind? How little the Gods understand man—
Their creation. How much better a modern business man
could run the world—he is willing to try and is actually
making the effort.”
It is all well enough to “believe” in the carpenter’s Son,
so long as a man is not expected to follow His teachings but
only to contribute financially to his movement. And yet, the
observance of that one injunction would have saved this
dying civilization. One wonders if, before the last breath
is drawn, man will realize what an ignorant humbug he is;
realize that he cannot flout or deceive Divine Law, no matter
how much he may deceive himself and others. Sometime
man must learn that ethics are based on natural law and
the sooner he realizes this great truth the better it will be
for him.
I stress this now because when the dark days come, the
religionist will cry aloud: “Oh, God, why have you afflicted
me so? Why have you wrought this destruction? ‘My God,
my God, why have you forsaken me’?” And the Materialist
and the Atheist will probably unite in this common prayer:
“My God, if there is a God, save my soul, if I have a soul,
and if souls can be saved.”
Mankind will not realize now or then that not God but
man is to blame for his evil creations, unless that fact is
stressed beforehand and is then proved by subsequent events.
For sixteen hundred years—since the Council of Nice—the
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
A stro lo g y a n d H e a l t h
Occident has attempted to shift its responsibility to the
shoulders of Jesus, but it must now discard theology for law
and reap what it has sown. Creeds must crumble under
facts, and man must learn through suffering until he is
wise enough to learn from history, or from observation.
I am now forecasting for you only the immediate future.
After these things transpire then will come “the new heaven
and the new earth,” all of which is set forth in my book,
“The Greater Mysteries.” But until the earliest forecast
has been fulfilled few can be expected to accept the later one.
The sorrows of others always cast their shadows over
sympathetic natures who realize that all men are kin. But,
when they know that the suffering of others is self-inflicted
then philosophy should remove the shadows. To those of you
who are in tune with the Infinite and who will try to be
philosophical in the dark days which are dawning, it may
help you to know how fortunate you are, to be living in
Southern California—the cradle of the new race—the land
of promise.
Before every cataclysmic change, Divine Law causes an
exodus of selected persons from the lands to be afflicted, and
they are led by inspiration to a place of safety. But as a
concomitant some bring with them Karmic afflictions. These
latter, together with some natives and with some transients,
who are not fitted by their natures to enter into the plans
of the constructive civilization to be born in the new home,
do not survive. So our Southland will not be entirely free
from disease and disaster, for every one must take the con­
sequences of his acts. But there will be less suffering here
during the transition period, less poverty, fewer physical
changes; less sickness and death than in any other part of
the world.
The few people who are left in the cities of the dead,
throughout the world, after Divine Justice has been estab­
lished, will come here to live—if they can do so—and will
help us to build a new civilization where we will have real
liberty along all lines and where we, as brothers, will aid
each other in becoming enlightened Sons of God.
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
The
Evolution of God
and Man
Google Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
Digitized by G O O g l C
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
Copyright, 1927
BY
PRICHARD INGALESE
Los Angeles, Cal.
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
The Evolution of God and Man
O MAN created God in his own image, in the
image of man created he him ; male and female
created he them.
This reads like a part of the first C hapter of
Genesis, is ju st as true and far more literal,
mind is subjectively conscious of the existence of
Deity, though usually unable to im press this knowledge upon
the low er mind. This can readily be accounted for when one
rem em bers the origin of each mind of man.
W hen the two minds first blended to m ake the complete
man, as described in “The H istory and Pow er of Mind," the
higher was at a great disadvantage because the evolution of
the low er had been exclusively upon this dense earth of ours,
and therefore was stronger in its own realm . The higher
mind, for ages, had evolved on three other separate worlds
of finer and higher vibration than ours, though they differed
from each other in density. T hat mind, therefore, knew noth­
ing of earthly existence. It was like a m an’s putting on a
diving suit and being compelled to work and live under w ater.
The higher mind was dazed by objective life much as the
diver would be by the wonders and dangers of under-sea
existence. The lower mind was quick to take advantage of
its new companion and assum ed control of the partnership,
a position it has too well m aintained throughout the ages
and still holds with the m ajority of men. The lower mind
alw ays had lived for physical sensation only, and introduced
its com panion to th at phase of life. This caused the higher
mind to forget, for a time, its origin and birthright. It
becam e enm eshed in anim al desires and physical sensations.
But, after many, many incarnations, pleasure palled, as pleas­
ure alw ays does in tim e, and memory of God partially
re-awoke. Then an intellectual dawn cam e; and w ith it the
groping to find Deity. It was the perennial story of the
prodigal son. Not all higher minds broke the enchantm ent
3
The higher
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
The Evolution of God and Man
of physical illusions at the same tim e, but each mind did so
as its pleasure turned to pain—or will do so in fullness of
tim e when satiated.
The lower mind always had feared nature except in its
smiling moods, recognizing a power superior to itself. W hat
it could not control through force it sought to propitiate by
flattery or by bribes—offerings. This is still done by unde­
veloped men as can be seen and heard in every Church w here
men sing the praises of their God and then by money or
m aterial offerings seek to secure for them selves some special
favor, thinking they have blinded Him by their childish w ords
and gifts.
Thus, finally, the two m inds of man, each w ith a different
purpose, united their forces for the sam e quest; the higher
to win its way back to God, taking w ith it its hum anized com­
panion; the lower to seek protection for itself. These mixed
m otives rendered the path of evolution all the harder.
Prim itive m an deified the various aspects of nature and
her processes, as for illustration: trees, m ountains, w ater,
wind, light, and darkness. N aturally, prim eval man could not
conceive a m etaphysical Deity and therefore m aterial objects
had to be selected as symbols of ideas. It is an old adage of
Occultism that “nature, unaided, fa ils;” and man, as an aspect
of nature, had been helped and has to be helped in his upw ard
journey. There are various grades of helpers of hum anity,
such as m an’s helping his fellow m an; but, in order to help,
those men had to be taught first. The older in evolution
alw ays can help the younger, and at various tim es the w iser
men on earth grouped them selves into Brotherhoods for the
purpose of aiding those less developed. In tim e, such B roth­
erhoods became corrupted by priests of various religious
orders getting control of the organizations and using them
for propaganda of special faiths; and then such B rotherhoods
became disrupted—or will be disrupted. But, behind all m an­
made organizations are the Teachers of the race. These are
the bodyless, unseen, lesser Gods, who in a prior period, and
on other planets evolved from men to their present status.
W hen evolution commenced on our planet these graduates of
other system s volunteered to come here to help the infant
race according to its capacity to receive, and they will rem ain
as the Teachers of men until the last person leaves this
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FC
A
L
IF
t
The Evolution of God and Man 5
planet. The credit for much th at these beneficent Beings have
taught and done has been claim ed by various E astern
“B rotherhoods’' in the tw entieth Century. The grade of these
T eachers is betw een the graduate of a Planetary Chain and
the Cherubim and Seraphim whose m essengers they are. In
the course of ages advancing m an was able to catch a glim pse
of th a t which was symbolized, and then the T eachers of the
race tried to instill in m an’s mind the thought of the creative
force, w hich m an quickly personified—thus m aking another
stage of the evolution of the God idea. For illustration: The
good, the giver of life, health, happiness, and light, first was
pictured and worshiped as the sun. W ith this symbol, facts
and law s of nature w ere taught to man. L ater, advanced men
w ere shown th at behind th at symbol was the creative force,
which m en pictured as a big m an—an anthropom orphic God
like Jehovah.
But some men, a t this tim e, have outgrown the necessity
of m yths and symbols, and are taking a forw ard step in the
God idea by accepting the fact th a t all Gods, in the beginning,
were one w ith God, and later becam e men, and through evo­
lution have outgrow n hum an attrib u tes and acquired the deific
ones of knowledge and power.
This unfoldm ent in m an did not take place in a few gen­
erations but in cycles of tim e—for religious ideas develop
slowly because of religious prejudices, the strongest of all
th at m an has. And this is not due to the love th at m an has
for God, but on account of the love he has for him self and for
those theologies invented by priests for credulous followers
which provide an easy way for m an to be saved through
passive faith and active gifts.
All men do not develop the God idea at the sam e tim e. In
all ages there have been m en who w ere in advance of th eir
fellows. At this tim e we have in A laska those who w orship
anim als; there are the fire w orshipers of A frica; the anthro­
pom orphic C hristians and the m odern m etaphysical cults—
not forgetting the negative side of the picture, the out and
out atheists.
It can safely be laid down th a t m an’s conception of God
m arks his point of developm ent; and th at the m aterialist,
notw ithstanding his sneers a t the Religionist, the Deist and
the Occultist, m erely stam ps him self as an educated anim al
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
6 The Evolution of God and Man
mind, proficient only in the transitory theories of the hour
and deficient in all the realities of life, tem poral and eternal.
It would require many volumes to describe the various
conceptions which men have of God even in the T w entieth
Century. But never was Colonel R obert G. Ingersoll’s wise
and w itty saying more true than now: “An honest God is the
noblest work of m an.” The Occult view of God is perhaps
more com prehensive than the rest and if thoroughly under­
stood will illumine the others.
All consciousness, mind, and m atter, is God. As profound
a truth as this should be amplified in order th at its m eaning
may not be lost. At the beginning of each period of evolution
there are three aspects of Deity. The Celestial H ierarchy, the
atom ic and the unparticled portions. The Celestial H ierarchy
consists of the various grades of Gods developed during the
latest as well as prior periods of evolution. Being developed
Minds, they alone persist as forms. T heir im m ortality has
been won by labor, and will continue only so long as They
w ish to labor in future evolutionary periods. But They have
the Cosmic N ights in which to rest, as does the all-inclusive
Consciousness Itself. All lesser minds disintegrate, having
failed to reach their evolutionary goal. All through the long
Cosmic Day there are certain minds who prove them selves
too weak to continue their efforts, and drop out of the evolu­
tionary journey one by one. These, to men, seem failures;
but from God’s viewpoint there are no failures.
To illustrate this profound tru th : An appletree in the
Spring puts forth its buds and flowers and leaves. Some buds
never blossom; some flowers never develop into apples; some
apples are windfalls, while others become perfected fruit.
Everything th at falls from the tree to the ground is re­
absorbed by the tree which is enriched by the experience of
the leaves, buds, flowers, and fruit, which have collected valu­
able chemical elem ents during their brief existence—failures
from the viewpoint of those that fall, successes from th at of
the fertilized tree. But the perfected apples are successes
from every viewpoint, containing w ithin them selves the seeds
for future trees. And so the successes in hum an evolution
become, in tim e, super-men; then, later, lesser and, after­
w ards, greater creative Gods.
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
The Evolution of God and Man 7
The atom ic part of Deity—and here the word atomic is
used in the original and proper sense—consists of that portion
of Itself which has had evolutionary experience in forms.
The atom s are Divine Substance, dual in their nature con­
sisting of m atter ensouled by consciousness—a com bination
incapable of separation, as m aterial science may sometime
realize.
The unparticled portion of Deity has never had any evolu­
tionary experience; but is w aiting as homogeneous, sleeping
substance, for its opportunity in days yet to be born. This
portion is only m entioned to complete the concept, but has no
practical value at present in the exam ination of the subject
except so far as to show the graded intelligence and develop­
m ent of God Itself. This portion is by far the largest of the
three, the other two being m erely islets in an infinite ocean of
Consciousness.
The whole purpose of God is to educate and develop Itself
by raising Its vibrations through infinite form s and their
experiences. To individualized minds, this process seems end­
less; and, logcally, it m ust be so. The ephem era with its one
day of life and a God w ith His eons of exixstence each con­
tributes to the divine intent.
Men and Gods can conjecture but not know w hat this All
Consciousness was during past eternities and how long was
required to establish w ithin Itself Its first perm anent form
of mind. By analogy Its failures m ust have been infinite
before It could concentrate all of Its highest vibrating atom s
into th at one form which became the first Mind, or a God.
H aving established a focus through which to act, evolution
was quickened and the results enhanced. One can picture
this process. Image a pale, negative, m otionless blue sky.
The zenith slowly begins to vibrate, which motion is tran s­
m itted som ew hat tow ard but not to the horizon. The oscilla­
tion of the zenith quickens until it seem s to resolve itself
into m yriads of points of positive blue light. These points
become more and more electrical, and group them selves into
geom etrical figures which appear and disappear. Then the
brighter points in each figure, after every dissolution, gravi­
tate tow ard a common center until finally all are grouped into
one ovoid—a brilliant blue m iniature sun. The process is
repeated again and yet again; each tim e the vibrations are
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
increased tow ard the focal point and the moving atom s a re
then directed not only by the prim al force but also by th e
little blue suns until there is an ever-increasing cluster of
them in the zenith.
So the cluster of Gods, brought into existence at each evo­
lutionary period, finally became the brains of God through
which divine desire directs Its purpose. In this conception
there is no room for the idea of the perfection which charac­
terizes the prevalent view of Deity. It is all evolution, a
struggle tow ard an ever-changing and heightened ideal, in
which each part from a protoplasm to God perform s its sig­
nificant function. N othing in nature, therefore, is unim ­
portant; but every created thing is designed for its especial
use during the tim e of its existence. Even the destructive
form s in the three kingdoms of nature are utilized by Mind
to serve or conserve the general plan. For illustration: The
m ineral poisons help, chemically, to disintegrate the m etals,
ores, and rocks so as to release th eir essences which furnish
food for the vegetable world. These poisons are the low est
atom s of Deity; the baby atom s, as it were, th at are draw n
from the inexhaustible reservoir of unparticled substance to
commence, for the first tim e, their evolutionary experiences.
The vegetable and anim al poisons are atom s from the destruc­
tive thoughts of anim als and men, gathered by the kindly
Gods into form s to prevent the diffusion of such poisons
throughout the m ental and m aterial w orlds; and to obviate
their injurious effects upon psychic and physical man.
Many form s which seem useless to m an are experim ents
in the laboratory of nature which, if successful, will be used
in other Cosmic Days. Each created form is stim ulated in its
grow th and utilized to its lim it by the evolutionary im pulse
which does Its utm ost to preserve it, in the hope that, in tim e,
such a center of consciousness may develop into a mind. To
accom plish this, God condenses a part of Itself around every
center of consciousness which ensouls a form ; and this is true
upon the invisible as well as upon the visible planes of nature
—for the plan is uniform.
To the eyes of the seer there are m yriads of form s upon
the inner planes of our globe, some of which play no m ean
part in the evolutionary processes of our planet. W hy do our
scientists exam ine their subjects w ith only one, or at most
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
The Evolution of God and Man 9
two, eyes open w hen they have three at their command?
Seership is but developing the inner vision, the m aterial organ
of which is the pineal gland. For tw enty years or more the
m ethod of aiding this gland to function has been pointed out
in the text book of W estern Occultism, “Occult Philosophy.”
But A m erican scientists seem to be m oral cowards, afraid of
the laughter of their associates and contem poraries, and do
not dare to investigate the Occult—and, being ignorant of it,
naturally condemn it. Some of th eir B ritish co-workers have
been braver along this line, and have declared th a t the Occult
world and its phenom ena, being a part of nature, is as legiti­
m ate a field for investigation as is the m aterial world. These
men were laughed at in the beginning; but they were scien­
tists in fact, not in nam e only, and continued their pursuit
of knowledge until their contem poraries honored their bravery
and their accom plishm ents along physical lines, and became
less intolerant along psychic lines.
The psychic form s, to which reference was made, are not
confined to excarnated m en and anim als, but include the ele­
m ental form s of nature, often classified as the spirits of the
elem ents—earth, air, fire, and w ater. Folk-lore is filled with
legends of these centers of consciousness called gnomes,
sylphs, salam anders, and undines. Most fairy tales are based
in th eir realities. Psychic form s also include man-made cen­
ters of consciousness on the m ental plane. But, in this en­
lightened (?) m aterialistic age, it would be useless to enter
into a full discussion of these form s and their functions.
They are m erely m entioned th at the student may realize that
the Divine Expression is not confined to m aterial forms.
P lanets and suns also are but aggregations of atom ic con­
sciousnesses, the slow er vibrating as the visible expression
and the higher as the invisible; and around these larger
spheres there is likew ise a condensation of Deity—for, accord­
ing to the size, developm ent and purpose of a center is the
intensity of the condensation.
To the Inner vision of the seer the orange-colored force of
life is the condensation around elem ental and vegetable forms.
It is often designated by O ccultists as the aura of the form
and preserves it so th at it may long persist. In the higher
forms, as for illustration the tree, the aura acting as a shell
to the egg, preserves the unity of consciousness, thus enabling
unginai irom
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
10 The Evolution of God and Man
the center to re-embody itself in another tree when its fo rm e r
body is destroyed. In tim e, through this process, an individ­
ual anim al mind is born from atom ic consciousnesses, as th e
fetus is form ed from the atom s in the m other’s blood.
Around the anim al mind and form this deific concentration
m anifests as the combined colors of green, red, and o ran g e
force. This feeds th a t mind according to its receptivity, ju s t
as physical food nurtures the body. Thus it is literally tru e
th at not a sparrow can fall to the ground w ithout the know l­
edge of God, of w hich it is a part.
But around the united m inds of a m an and his body, D eity
m anifests as a Corona of blue- or yellow-colored force, ovoid
in shape, which form s the protecting shell in w hich he lives.
The quality of a m an’s thoughts—in other words his c h ar­
acter—determ ines the habitual color of his Corona while th e
m inds w ithin it, like the cham eleons, change their color w ith
m an’s passing thoughts and varying environm ent.
This condensation of Deity—this Corona—is m an’s per­
sonal God. His prayers are directed to it; his aspirations are
stim ulated by it; his com fort is derived from it; his intuition
is Its im pressions upon him ; his preservation is Its action;
It is his good Angel. If he listens to It, then It becom es his
teacher; It is the M other God from which he was born; and,
like the m other, It n u rtures m an through his higher mind.
This is literally true. The m ore a mind consciously m akes
its approachm ent to his God in interest, character, know ledge,
and power, the m ore quickly does th a t m an develop. The
personal God—the Corona—is alw ays a shade higher in vibra­
tion than the higher mind It surrounds. The higher mind, by
its aspirations, draw s upon the Corona and absorbs It. As
the atom s of the Corona blend w ith the higher m ind it
becom es g reater in size, it expands in strength and wisdom
and its vibrations increase. W hile the Corona, to supplem ent
Its depletion, draw s to Itself other and higher vibrating atom s
from Its own Infinite source of supply, and thus it continues
forever and forever through the lives of men and Gods.
The converse of this also is true. W hen the mind is out
of harm ony w ith its Corona; when it is discordant, irritable,
em otional and im pulsve; w hen it is ruled by desire and not
by will, then it draw s the low er atom s from its Corona w hich
are supplem ented by still low er ones, and the mind finds
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITYO
FCALIFO
RNIA
The Evolution of God and Man 11
itself devolving. For God grants to man w hat his mind m ost
desires. Man cannot be both constructive and destructive at
the sam e tim e. It is the Divine wish that m an should evolve;
he was created for th at purpose, because God can progress
only through Its parts—and progress forever It will.
But, God and m an alike are lim ited by th eir natures; and
so. Deity is compelled to bring to man w hat he wants. This
is the law of attraction which operates on every plane of m at­
ter. It is true th at if a m an continues to vibrate low er and
lower, and, like a freight car wheel, crystallizes or becomes
defective, then he disintegrates—for destruction destroys
itself under the law of m ind’s attraction. Thus the Corona,
through the action of m an’s mind, may become his evil angel,
his personal devil to drag him to dissolution. It is an old
saying th at the devil is God inverted. The w iser statem ent
would be th at God is all, com prehending both the constructive
and the destructive, converting the la tte r portion of Itself into
good as the eternities unfold.
U nderstanding the Occult conception of God, both inside
and outside of m an, one can understand how all the great
religious teachers of the past—all the Saviors of the world—
taught the sam e ethics. They are not a moral code handed
down from some arbitrary god to man, as the theologians
teach; nor are they rules of hum an conduct evolved by m an
under the pressure of necessity, for better political and physi­
cal enjoym ent, as the m aterialists think; but they are state­
m ents of law s of nature operating upon its occult side.
Man is not im m ortal m erely by reason of his creation, but,
volition being his, he may work for and attain im m ortality.
The persistence of the egoity is dependent upon his desire
to live and his effort to evolve. God is enriched through the
experiences of the ephem eral m an but not so m uch as through
the cooperation of the im m ortal man. The real m ission of
Jesus was not to fulfill prophecies or play the hero of a crude,
theological fairy tale, but to em phasize the possibility of m an’s
im m ortality and thus neutralize, or overcome, the ever-grow­
ing teaching of the Buddhist priests, which, otherw ise, would
have converted the world to the philosophical but pessim istic
faith of N irvana, or subm ergence of the individual into the
universal, and thus delay God’s plan—for nothing can
defeat it.
Original fn
O
The Evolution of God and Man
Digitized by
This is but a thum bnail sketch of God and God’s E volu­
tion, but is a sufficient outline to explain m uch of the m y stery
of ever-developing life. In “The H istory and Pow er of M ind,”
in “Fragm ents of T ruth,” the subject has been treated a t som e
length from other angles. It rem ains for us now to am plify
the evolution of man though this may necessitate some rep e­
tition here and there.
The m ost interesting of all subjects to m an is m an—h is
origin, nature, and destiny. No religion can long endure, no
philosophy can persist, no science can in terest the m any,
unless it centers about man. This is not due, as so m any
have alleged, to m an’s egotism , but to the fact th at m an is
the apex of created things; he, alone, having w ithin him self
the inherent potency of re-creating him self into som ething
w iser and m ore powerful than m an—into a God. No w onder,
then, th at the chief intellectual conflict, at this tim e, is about
evolution; and especially th a t phase pertaining to m an’s
origin.
The three leading theories on this subject is the Theo­
logical, the Scientific and the Occult. The theological is the
atavistic belief of the C hristian Church based upon the con­
struction of the Bible during the intellectually dark ages of
Europe.
Many of the people who hold this theory are sincere and
honest in th eir belief but have taken their tenets on faith and
not upon investigation. It is astonishing how little they know
about the history of the book of Genesis, upon which they
think they stake th eir all now and hereafter. N aturally, one
would suppose th at w ith such a belief they would give tim e,
study and thought to the subject; and the fact th at they do
not do so is conclusive evidence th at they are unprepared,
as yet, for such efforts.
Briefly th eir creed is th at C hapters One, Two, and Five
of Genesis relate to the sam e event and are but different ways
of narrating the special creation of Adam, by God, out of mud
in likeness to H im self; and of Eve out of A dam ’s rib. No
other woman seem s to have been created, by God, and yet we
find th at Cain, Seth and th eir descendants had wives. Those
who hold these views seem to see no difference betw een the
Elohim—the plural noun properly translated m eaning Gods—
who in C hapter One made m an in th eir im age out of substance
Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
The Evolution of God and Man 13
unm entioned; and the Lord Gods of C hapter Two who formed
m an out of the dust of the ground after an image not m en­
tioned.
The special creation theory is the foundation of medieval
an d m odern C hristianity, and w ithout this foundation it falls
to the ground. For th at reason the Church fights frantically
fo r this fundam ental tenet. And the Church is logical in its
position; for, through the special creation of Adam and Eve,
sin cam e into the world requiring the universal scapegoat,
Jesus, to assum e th at sin and to atone for it by His personal
sacrifice. No Adam, no sin. No sin, no Jesus, no vicarious
atonem ent, no necessity for priests or Churches. Very simple.
And the people, like the priests, are beginning to see the truth,
and when m an fully realizes it then the C hristianity of the
Church m ust die, and man m ust have a new er and a b etter
philosophy of life. The C hristianity of Jesus died at the
Council of Nice, and now the theology of Paul is fast going.
T his is not to be regretted. Every religion serves its purpose
until it is outgrow n and then a new and a better one takes
its place. To the follower of a faith, his religion seem s the
only true one and all its predecessors are m yths. But history
shows th at the religion of one day is the mythology of the
next.
The theological theory of m an’s origin is not based on the
original text of Genesis, as the priests pretend to their m isin­
form ed followers; but is based upon the C hurch’s acceptance
of certain translations and interpretations of copies of
Genesis. This is a distinction w ith a very m arked difference.
It m ust be rem em bered th at the Bible is a collection of books
w ritten at different tim es, by m any persons, under varying
circum stances and for special purposes. The word Bible is
from the Greek word Biblia, m eaning books, a library.
There is no original m anuscript of Genesis. The oldest
which we have is a copy made about the Eighth Century of
the C hristian era. There were copies of copies made and
re-made from pre-Christian tim es. None of these were com­
plete but w ere fragm ents of texts. In fact it is believed now
generally am ong scholars, th at there never was an original
book of Genesis but m erely a collection of fragm ents of
Babylonian and Chaldean w ritings, by m any authors. A fter
the dispersion of the Jew s, H ebrew becam e a dead language.
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALI
14 The Evolution of God and Man
Most of the Jew s in Egypt had adopted Greek as th eir tongue.
To preserve the ancient books, H ebrew scholars, in Alex­
andria, commenced about 285 B. C. to translate into Greek all
the fragm ents of w hat is called now the Old T estam ent. Dif­
ferent translators from tim e to tim e continued the work until,
finally, it was completed about 130 B. C. The tran slato rs
frequently disagreed among them selves about the m eaning
of the text and this was natural, because the oldest tex ts
were w ritten in the ancient Sem itic tongue, a language of
prim itive structure, incapable of expressing abstract ideas.
There were no vowels in th at language, and the m eaning had
to be indicated by points above or below the consonants. B ut,
finally, several Greek texts were evolved from among the con­
fusion of translations and these were translated eventually
into the L atin tongue. Different English translations w ere
made from the L atin and the various C hristian sects finally
adopted the final translation which suited th eir purposes best.
Can anyone say w ith certainty which man, or men, w rote
or copied, under Divine Inspiration, any particular text which,
in the course of re-copying and translating from language to
language, finally became, in English, the inspired W ord of
God? How flimsy a foundation upon which to found a faith,
or to establish a theory of the origin of man.
Rem em ber th at m ost civil law suits, at the present tim e,
are the results of differences in interpretation of supposedly
plain English words, recently w ritten, expressing an agree­
m ent betw een two or more persons. If business men, aided
by experts, are not able to express their m eaning clearly in
their native, flexible tongue about an every-day m atter, is it
not unwise to put too much faith in a w riting of unknown
origin which has passed through so m any hands, changes, and
languages, for over two thousand years?
There is no extraneous evidence to support the theory of
the Church. No sim ilarity in any of n atu re’s processes; no
logical reason why th at method should have been adopted.
The prehistoric people had as their m yths that m ankind, the
demigods and Gods, in fact all forms of life had sprung from
M other E arth, or w ith the E arth, from prim ordial substance.
Man could not trace his ancestry to one original pair; but
m an came into existence in many parts of the earth from
original pairs created in those sections.
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
The Evolution of God and Man 15
Is there anything inherent in the story of the Church
w hich gives it credence? W hy should a supposedly all-power­
ful, all-wise God create an im perfect man and woman who, He
knew , would act as Adam and Eve did and then punish them
fo r acting in accordance w ith the natures which He gave to
them ? And why afterw ards should He contritely sacrifice
H im self to H im self for H is cruelty or crim e? Not a very high
conception of a God, even of a man-made God. But, for­
tunately, there are better, unknown Gods—self-created from
m en through evolution.
A fter honest study and m editation, a thoughtful m an is
com pelled to reject this theory of m an’s origin; but this rejec­
tion does not necessarily include the rejection of the m yth
upon which the theory is founded and which Occultism says
conceals a great truth, if properly understood, as we shall
see later.
The present scientific theory of m an’s origin also taxes the
credulity of the thoughtful person. Epitom ized it is, th at by
some fortuitous circum stances, certain chemical elem ents
came together and generated prim ordial life. The first forms
were very simple—protoplasm ic. U nder the pressure of neces­
sity, in order to live in their environm ent, the original form s
underw ent changes, and the fittest survived. The first life
m anifested in the sea; then some form s became am phibious
and from these land anim als sprang. Through m yriads of
years m any form s of life steadily evolved w ith more compli­
cated structures and of higher intelligences until finally man
was born. It is a fascinating story, attested in various details
by m any branches of science. Its w eak point, to the thinker,
is, th at all this could start by a stray chance in a universe
of law and be continued w ithout a plan. It is like looking at
a large, com plicated, m odern m anufacturing plant and saying:
“It is w onderful; but still m ore wonderful th at it assem bled
itself by chance and pressure, and all w ithout a plan or a
planner."
This logic is recognized by some scientists who postulate
a designer; some call it nature and others call it God; but
the m ajority of scientists are m aterialistic, being dom inated
by the Germ an school of thought.
And so the verbal w ar betw een the theologian and scien­
tist is waging over m an’s origin. The theologians are an
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
The Evolution of God and Man
organized m inority, and in a dem ocracy are to be feared.
For, paradoxical as it may seem, in a democarcy the organ­
ized m inority usually dom inates along all lines. This is tru e
because the m ajority thinks so little of its rights and liberties
that it is unwilling to take the trouble to protect them .
From the viewpoint of the O ccultist the controversy
betw een the two m entioned factions is am using; because
neither of them is discussing man, but only m an’s body. M an
is mind and is not satisfactorily accounted for by either of the
contestants. The theologian says th at the Lord God breathed
into m an’s nostrils the breath of life; and man becam e a
living soul. This soul seem s to be, from the H ebrew word,
synonymous w ith the life principle and so it is used through­
out Genesis. W as the man of Genesis made, in the im age of
God, m indless? Did the soul or mind persist after the body
disintegrated? The fundam entalist, even to this day, holds
logically th at there m ust be a physical resurrection in order
that there should be a “living soul.”
The truth of the m atter is th at the theologian knows very
little about the psychological m an; and, in his way, is a
m aterialist—no m atter how violently he may deny it. T he
scientist and his followers, who are many, are less confused
in th eir thought, and frankly say th at they are m aterialists,
and th at m an’s mind is but the result of the action of h is
brain. Such persons are better posted in the evolution of
form than in psychology and psychic phenomena, which all
goes to prove that because a m an has studied one subject he
is not qualified thereby to pass judgm ent on an entirely dif­
ferent subject; and yet m an is too prone to do this very thing.
We hear of bankers asserting th at laws are unconstitutional;
of law yers saying th at a certain religion is the truest; preach­
ers denying the deductions of scientists; scientists denying
Occultism, and in fact m ost men displaying ignorance of all
subjects except their own little specialties.
In view of the confused and contradictory theories of m an’s
origin, Occultism offers its explanation of the creation and
evolution of m an and his body—an explanation which par­
takes, somewhat, of the essences of the two other theories.
Occultism postulates, as we have seen, th at Divine Mind,
or God, includes everything visible and occult, conscious and
insensate, constructive and destructive, nature and T hat In
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
The Evolution of God and Man 17
w hich nature m anifests, the atom ic and the homogeneous, all
is God. But from w hat has been said one can readily per­
ceive th at parts of God are developed while other parts are
undeveloped. Therefore, God is only relatively Om nipotent
and Om niscient, though alw ays O m nipresent. Man could not
have been created perfect, as there was only atom ic conscious­
ness out of w hich to create him and it required ages of evolve-
m ent to bring him even to his present undeveloped state.
Mind is not the action of the brain, but man is the minds
w hich use the brain as an instrum ent. The word “m inds,”
is used because there is a duality of m inds in m an—the higher
and the low er; the form er created by the greater, the latte r
by the lesser Gods. The actuality of the duality is established
through the common experiences of m an and also through
psychological experim ents. The low er mind, when uncon­
trolled, is a creature of im pulses; the higher, a rational entity.
But the low er can acquire by education the ability to reason,
but not alw ays to base its prem ises on fact; and it never loses
its im pulse to act from desire, until it is absorbed by the
higher mind. Every developing m an feels the conflict of these
m inds w ithin himself. H ypnotism confirms this duality. For
illustration: These m inds can be separated by the suggestion
of the operator when the subject is in a hypnotic trance; the
unresisting, higher mind can be sent aw ay from the body to
a d istant place and telepathically report events transpiring
there to the low er mind left in the body of the subject which
will report the m essage audibly to the operator. Or, the low er
mind of a subject may be ordered, by the operator, to commit
a crim e; but, if the higher mind is not brought also under the
influence of the operator th at higher mind will prevent the
low er from com m itting the act. There are many other psycho­
logical experim ents which add cum ulative evidence.
Now ju st a word on the subject of evidence. We often hear
it said there is no proof of the facts stated by Occultism.
Proof is evidence enough to convince an unbiased, rational
mind. Some m inds require more evidence to convince them
than others; due to prejudice or to a lack of parallel experi­
ence, or to self interest, or to vanity of personal opinion pre­
viously epressed, or to m any extraneous causes. A truth-
seeker should approach any subject, w orth investigating, with
an open mind, and carefully weigh the evidence subm itted,
The Evolution of God and Man
accepting the conclusions logically deduced by the preponder­
ance of evidence.
The two united m inds referred to can, and, under m any
circum stances, do exist independently of the body. This is
shown by hypnotism w here both minds of a subject are forced
out of the body by the operator. Professor F. W. H. M eyer,
secretary of the Psychical R esearch Society, in his book,
“Human Personality and Its Survival of Bodily D eath,”
(1903) has collected many authenticated cases, from thou­
sands investigated, where the mind was seen freed from the
body. There are tens of thousands of such cases testified to
by spiritists. A few A m erican and also B ritish scientists who
have investigated the subject add their testim ony to the sam e
effect. Is it not strange th at the word of such men in physics
or in chem istry is accepted by the so-called scientific world,
and yet doubted or denied in reference to the finer vibrations
of m atter—mind form s? All students of Occultism, at a c er­
tain point of developm ent, are taught the method of leaving
the body at will. But the evidence can be m ultiplied indefin­
itely and w hat to the m aterialist seem s impossible, becom es
commonplace to the m etaphysician.
If the mind can be separated from the body, even for a few
m inutes, then there is no logical reason why it may not be
separated for an indefinite period, or, in other words be
im m ortal.
Mind being som ething, it is not m erely the m olecular
vibrations of the brain; it m ust have form and color—for
there can be no entity w ithout these attributes. Let us, then,
first analyze the real m an as he is, and, afterw ards, trace
the outlines of his creation and evolution. Most people see
only m an’s body, but the psychic, the Seer, the student of the
Occult, sees the inner, or invisible man who is an ovoid som e­
w hat larger than his body. The denser portion of this egg-
shaped individual fits snuggly into his physical body and is
the low er mind. It closely resem bles the face and form of
the body. Its color is dependent upon its character. If
thoughtful and m atured, it vibrates a light green; less devel­
oped, it may be a dark green, brown, red, or even black when
degenerate.
O utlining the lower mind and body, is the higher mind
which extends beyond the body two or three inches, or to as
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
The Evolution of God and Man 19
m any feet, dependent upon its growth. This mind is sex­
less in form, less dense in substance, and looks like the body
idealized. Its color also depends upon its character. W hen
highly developed it is some shade of blue or yellow; but when
dom inated by the lower mind it assum es the color of th at
m ind, just as it im parts its own shade to the low er mind when
it is self-controlled.
Around both minds, as a corona, is a condensed portion of
Divine Mind, whose color exceeds the hue of the higher mind
it surrounds. This is the Sacred Auric Egg. M an’s personal
God, as we have seen. In Divine Mind there are gradations
of higher substance which m anifest in stream s or currents.
T hese are not sharply defined at their banks or edges, but
m elt into one another like the hues of the rainbow. The
higher mind of man is draw n from the substance where the
blue and yellow currents blend. The higher Gods, connected
w ith this planet are the F athers of the higher minds of men
while Divine Mind is the M other. Each of these Creative
Gods, in Occultism, is called a Planetary Spirit; they are
seven in num ber and, collectively, they are the Elohim of the
F irst C hapter of Genesis, who said: “Let us make man in our
own image, after our likeness.” Like all perm anent forms,
even the U niverse itself, these P lanetary Spirits are im m ense
Ovoids or C enters of Light.
In creating the higher mind of man, a P lanetary Spirit
throw s His force into Divine Mind—the Divine M other—
creating a vortex which gradually form s a small ovoid of con­
densed atom s. This the M other God surrounds w ith a portion
of H erself,—the Corona,—and divine m an is born.
This world is one of seven globes of graduated density
composing a planetary chain; created by the sam e group of
Gods—the Elohim. W hen divine man was created he was
placed on the first globe of this chain. Slowly through the
centuries the atom ic consciousnesses, of which he was com­
posed, blended into an individual consciousness, under the
nurture of the Divine M other; ju st as the atom s in the egg
blend into the chick. Thus through the slow course of evolu­
tion was divine man developed on the first three planets of
this chain of worlds.
There are Creative Gods connected with a planetary chain,
lesser in greatness than those already m entioned. Less only
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
T h e E v o l u t io n o f G o d a n d M a n
in comparison with the Planetary Spirits; but when seen by
man They are as Jehovah Himself and seem of infinite power
and knowledge. Such are the Lord Gods of the second Chap­
ter of Genesis. Their chief creations are the vegetable and
animal life on the dense, fourth planet of a chain. While
divine man was developing on the first three globes, the Lord
Gods were evolving slowly higher and higher forms and cen­
ters of animal consciousness on our earth. Many, many
experiments had to be made in order to improve on the Crea­
tions of other Cosmic Days; for a God—like a man—grows by
the thought and effort given to His work; and every entity
must evolve to live, or devolve and disintegrate.
The process of evolution upon this earth was very similar
to that described by modern science except in several notable
particulars. First: Not chance, but Divine Plan is behind all
evolution. The Lord Gods direct the atomic groupings which
compose the lower forms of life. These are so ephemeral that
with the dissolution of the forms the consciousnesses which
ensouled them are dispersed, and return into the Divine
Mother out of which they were drawn by the Lord Gods.
Second: When a complex form is to be evolved, as for
illustration a tree which persists for a longer time, then a
Lord God projects His force into the Divine Mother Mind and
creates in It a vortex at the confluence of the green, red and
orange currents, and an ovoid consciousness is drawn forth
to be the matrix for the form of the tree—and this is the
birth of the center of consciousness which is to become,
through evolution, the lower mind of man.
Third: To conserve force and to hasten evolution these
embyronic, lower minds which first ensouled the trees are
preserved to repeat again and yet again their re-embodiment
until a lower mind is born from those collective atomic con­
sciousnesses, as in the case of the higher mind.
From ensouling the trees, in time the ovoids pass to the
evolved animal forms and become the animal minds. Here
the evolution of form continues and the animal minds, through
repeated transmigrations, gain greater experience until they
finally ensoul forms that stand erect and walk on two feet—
primitive man.
Fourth: Instead of a single evolutionary process, as
science indicates, there is a triplicate process, as we have
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
T h e E v o l u t io n o f G od a n d M a n 21
seen, one for each mind of man and one for his body. When
the lower mind has ceased to ensoul the lower animals and
takes a human form, then, under the direction of the Gods,
each higher mind comes to this earth and blends with a lower
mind and forms invisible man. Thenceforth his evolution is
through incarnation and reincarnation, whereby he gets more
and more human experiences in each body until at length he
has absorbed life’s lessons here and is ready to go to the fifth
planet of our chain to continue with his greater growth.
One can understand the animal proclivities in man when
one realizes the origin of his nature. Those men in whom the
higher mind is not awake to its duties and its destiny, are but
little higher than educated animals—they have still a long,
painful road ahead—or oblivion. From man’s viewpoint, hap­
piness is the only justification for existence; and there is no
happiness for man so long as there is a tempestuous conflict
between his animal desires and his divine impulses.
The origin of the Christ myth was based on the history
of man’s evolution. The Son, God who originally was one with
the Father-Mother, left His celestial abode to come to earth
to save animal man. By reincarnating in matter He was cru­
cified by it through His suffering. When He dominated and
transmuted His lower mind His ascension was won and made;
and He, with His lower mind, became one of the Trinity,
Father-Mother-Son. In some form this legend is found in all
the great religions of the world. For the facts of nature,
objective and Occult, material and spiritual, were given to
primitive man in story form so he could understand them.
Later, ignorant or corrupted priesthoods, for selfish purposes,
made creeds and theological dogmas from the Occult teach­
ings and enslaved man with perverted truths, which in their
purer form, were intended for his enlightenment and freedom.
Modern science has caught a glimpse of this in its teach­
ing of comparative religions when it claims that all primitive
religions were based on nature’s processes; but, unfortunately,
the word nature is taken by the scientist to mean material
nature only, and that makes the statement a dangerous half
truth. All objective nature is the outward expression of the
inner occult nature, just as the physical body is the outward
expression of the invisible man. And so the occult legends
contain truths of the visible and the invisible processes of
Digitized by u , o u o i e
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
T h e E v o l u t io n o f G o d a n d M a n
nature and of man’s evolution. The materialistic scientist, like
the progressive ego who has outgrown the Churches, is too
much inclined to overrate his progress and to feel that all the
old teachings are false; just as the boy underrates his parent’s
knowledge and over-estimates his own. The position of the
agnostic in these matters, if not assumed to cover disbelief, is
not unscientific, if it is recognized merely as a way station on
the road to truth.
Having outlined man’s creation and evolution to the
present time, one may naturally inquire what of his future?
The Occultist replies: that remains with man alone. Divine
Mind is always ready to assist him in his climb to greater
heights. Divine Law—the united forces and wills of the Gods
—is at his command to aid in his evolution. God and the
Gods help those who help themselves; but the childhood of the
race is over; man cannot be carried as an infant any longer.
The initiative to advance must come from man. His time on
this world is limited because there are more globes of this
planetary chain where he must go to school and graduate
before the sun of our solar system is exhausted. Its life is,
by no means, as long as our scientific friends believe and
forecast. All this has been explained in the four text books
of W estern Occultism.
During man’s ascent, the law of the survival of the fittest
has been in force, but never more so than now. The next
few years will witness the ever-increasing elimination of the
less fit for our world and their segregation throughout the
Universe on worlds nearer the central sun where there will
be a longer time in which to make up their tardy evolution—
if they can. But on our system of planets only the strongest
and most persevering will be permitted to reincarnate. It
will be appalling to see the number who will fall by the way-
side. Never again in this world of ours will there be a
crowded population. So, many of man’s perplexing economic
and social problems will be thus solved automatically.
After the middle of this century our world will be a very
pleasant place on which to dwell. It has almost passed
through the low points of sin, pain, poverty, materialism, and
doubt. The light is breaking through intellectual darkness.
Digitized by Go >gle Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Some-j of the unusual and helpful booh printed and published
by
3 . IF. 3\owity ress
Printers and Publishers
THE GATE BEAUTIFUL, being principles and methods
of Vital Art Education, by Prof. John Ward Stimson.
Profusely illustrated. Price, $6.50 net. Postpaid, $7.00.
EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY. Almo De Monco, M. D.
This work is the result of over forty years of profes­
sional and scientific research. Invaluable for students of
Psychology and of the Higher Life. Beautifully bound in
full cloth and stamped in gilt. Price $2.25.
ESSENTIALS OF HAPPINESS F. F. Tanaka
Perhaps no other book of similar magnitude gives more
comprehensive, practical and precise knowledge on the
subject of Happiness than this work. Beautifully bound
in limp leather, embossed and stamped in gold. Price
$2.50 postpaid.
CHRIST’S TEACHINGS MADE PLAIN. Laureola
This artistic little volume consists of a series of lessons
specifically dealing with the Beatitudes, originally in­
tended as class lessons. Beautifully bound. Price, 55c
postpaid.
WINE FOR THE SOUL. Margaret Olive Jordan
A very helpful volume, especially to those in search
for the best solution of every-day problems. Bound in
genuine morocco, and gold edges. An ideal gift book.
Price, $2.50.
MOTHER AND BETTY—Outline of Truth Teachings
for Children. Clara English
Highly recommended by the leading liberal churches,
schools, colleges, magazines and authors and teachers.
Price, 65c, postpaid.
Descriptive literature of the above, and other books, sent
on request.
J. F. ROWNY PRESS
635 Lebanon St. Los Angeles, Calif.
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
H
Digitized by
HONESTY
Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by G C K
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by
Copyright 1928
By
RICHARD INGALESE
Lo* Angeles, Cal.
Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
HONESTY
HAVE been asked to lecture, this evening, on
Honesty, because it is a very practical question,
the full importance of which is not recognized at
this time.
Some time ago, in discussing honesty with a
expressed the opinion that honesty was like an
onion; it had many layers, and no one had reached the heart
of it. While this statement is very sweeping, there is a large
element of truth in it, because people differ so greatly in their
conceptions of the subject and even more so in living in
accordance with their expressed ideals; and a critical survey
of the first quarter of the Twentieth Century will show what
kind of civilization man has created based on his views of
honesty.
On other continents and in other times history was shaped
by an autocrat, an aristocracy, or a democracy; but now, in
America, and, largely, in most, if not in all of the rest of the
world, governments are timocracies, states in which political,
social, and civil honors are distributed according to material
wealth—not such as Plato dreamed of where love of honor is
the ruling principle. The age of good breeding and ancestry
and the age of intellect have given way to the age of busi­
ness. Big Business now is the ruling force in all govern­
ments, and upon it our civilization rests.
Let it be distinctly understood that anything that may be
said is not a criticism of wealth, nor of capitalists, as such,
but is an attempt to inquire how wealth is acquired and
utilized at this period, as a gauge for the separate and collec­
tive honesty of man in our day.
Money, wealth, is materialized force, and, like any other
force, in itself, is neither good nor bad. It is the use of the
force which determines whether it is constructive or destruc­
tive. All men should seek to honestly acquire financial inde-
3
lawyer, he
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
HONESTY
pendence; and, when acquired, should use it constructively.
A man, through dishonesty, may get a large fortune, and,
through gifts to churches, colleges, foundations, hospitals, and
other institutions, blind, for a time, his fellowmen by his sup­
posed generosity; but he does not thereby blind Divine
Justice, nor escape the consequences of his thoughts and acts.
Let us start with Big Business and see what it is doing to
build up a civilization worthy of its name. The heart of busi­
ness is banking; and when the heart is affected the whole
body suffers. In the earlier years of this republic, banking
was the most honored of all branches of business; it almost
ranked with the professions, and was handed down from
father to son. The calling carried with it the family honor.
When corporations—without souls—took the place of individu­
als in banking, then ambitious, but not always scrupulous
men, seeing the trend of the times, took up that career.
After the second war with England, the bankers sought to
get control of our government, and a fierce war was waged
between democracy and capital; and the former, under
Andrew Jackson, won. The United States Bank, as the
monstrous banking business was called, was denied a renewed
charter and put out of business.
But evil is a hydra-headed monster, and the American Her­
cules—Jackson—failed to cauterize the throats from which
he had cut the heads; and, true to the myth, the monster grew
two heads for every one destroyed. The bankers awaited
their time, and when the Civil War came they demanded from
our Government illegal concessions as the price of their help
—so essential to the life of the Government. The Government,
yielding to the strangle-hold of the banks, was compelled to
permit them to issue money, contrary to the Constitution, and
to have a representative in every Cabinet to shape the finan­
cial policy of the Government. Then the banks converted the
United States into a timocracy and have dominated it ever
since; for those who hold the purse strings control the policy
of a nation. The United States Government, in a wiser age,
may learn that it is fletter to conduct banking itself than to
be ruled by banks; but nations, like individuals, must learn
through experience.
Those who study carefully and critically the Federal Re­
serve Act of 1913 can have no doubt that the banks have
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
HONESTY 5
lost nothing of the power gained during the Civil War; but,
on the contrary, under the then administration, practically
have usurped the rights of the Federal Government to issue
money, except subsidiary coin. The newly granted power, in
effect, gives the banks the right to issue money also against
notes of merchants, instead, as formerly, only on the security
of Government Bonds. In substance it delegates the power
to the banks to say what corporations and individuals shall
make a success of their business and which shall fail. There­
fore the banks can control their customers politically, socially,
and civilly, as well as financially. It is a dangerous thing to
confer on one set of men the ability to direct the thoughts
and actions of others—a power which will necessarily be
abused when placed in the hands of undeveloped persons. It
is not meant that all bankers are unscrupulous, for among
men of that calling, as in all other occupations, there are con­
scientious persons; but they are in the minority. The aver­
age banker is merely the average man in his conception of
honesty. It is true that, as a class, bankers are stronger
mentally than the average man. It is strength which takes
them into the business, for the sum total of all that a man has
acquired in all his incarnations is his character, which ex­
presses itself in his environment, his vocation, and his
avocation.
The ideals of men change from age to age; and the finan­
ciers of today were largely the kings, princes, barons, and
knights of yesteryear. In all lives they have sought power
and have adapted their efforts to acquiring that phase of
power which their age idealized. Money is the ideal of this
age; and, therefore, represents the power of this age. The
physical wants which money can supply are few; the mental
and spiritual desires cannot be satisfied by wealth; it can „
merely furnish opportunities for growth along any line. Op­
portunities are too often neglected, as is exemplified by those
who inherit wealth. The man who earns his wealth i& more
apt to appreciate it at its true value, while he who receives
it through inheritance, speculation, or a minimum of effort,
too often uses it for his own undoing.
Power sought through wealth brings more power, more
wealth; for whatever the mind dwells upon it attracts to
it3elf—the mental law of demand and supply attends to that.
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
HONESTY
How do our money kings direct their efforts to acquire
their money and power? Are they honest with the public
whose confidence they crave? To read their advertisements
in the papers and magazines, one would suppose that banks
are charitable institutions and all bankers philanthropists.
The Federal Reserve notes, themselves, are intended to de­
ceive the people, for upon their faces they promise that the
United States of America will pay to the bearer, on demand,
so many dollars. By dollars is meant gold dollars, and it is
so understood. But, on the back of the notes in letters so
minute that many people cannot read them, it is stated you
must go to the Treasury Department in Washington if you
demand gold, for a Federal Reserve Bank, at its option, can
redeem the notes in any “lawful money,” which means any
other legalized paper money. If you want any substantial
sum of gold from your bank, you will be put through a “third
degree,” before your request will, be considered—and then,
often, it will be refused. But the banks took the people’s
gold and hid it away in vaults to build the banking business
upon. Is the entire transaction honest? True, it is legal, and,
in the minds of many men, what is not illegal is honest—
their consciences being circumscribed by the criminal code.
Let us examine the attitude of these banks and bankers
during the days of the recent Great War. It was openly
stated by a leading French statesman, in the Chamber of
Deputies, that the head of the most noted and powerful inter­
national banking house in New York had visited France, in
the earlier part of the war, and had promised to bring the
United States to her aid, within a year, if she would keep
up the conflict. That statement has been repeatedly pub­
lished in many papers and, so far as I know, has never been
denied.
Think of the audacity of a man making such a promise in
a Republic. And the pity of it all was he kept his promise.
He returned to America and very soon the neutral attitude
of our Government changed to hostility against one of the
combatants. Our newspapers and magazines began to point
out our duty toward France, our “duty to wage war to end
w ar;” our obligation “to make the world safe for democ­
racy;” and to publish all the catch phrases which you are
familiar with. Leading business men began talking about the
Digitized by
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
HONESTY 7
advantages of war. Many suggestible people yielded to the
propaganda. Hysterical persons, under repeated suggestion
from pulpit, pictures, and press, began to fear a foreign inva­
sion, unless we attacked a former national friend. Hate took
the place of friendship and respect, and Big Business pro­
jected us into a cruel and useless war.
All thinking persons have learned the sad lesson that
modern wars are purely economic and are outside the realm
of ethics. Many new American millionaires were made by
the war; good times were made for the working man; mate­
rial prosperity was felt by most of our citizens; but at what
a price were these gained—for what is a nation profited if it
shall gain the whole world and lose its own soul? Can blood
money bring happiness? The Occultist says, “No.” He says
that prosperity gained by such means shall, at its height, be
suddenly destroyed; that fortunes so amassed, or augmented,
will melt away in a night; that national and international
debts contracted in a bloody debauch will never be paid; and
time, the prover of all things, will soon confirm the opinion
of the Occultist.
“Though the mills of God grind slowly, yet
They grind exceedingly small;
Though with patience He stands waiting, with
Exactness grinds He all.”
And what was the attitude of the bankers during the war?
Most people believed it was one of pure patriotism. The
banks urged all persons to buy bonds “until it hurt.” The
banks told business men that they were expected to purchase
a certain number of bonds as issued and they were in no
position to refuse. They, in turn, cautioned employees that
if they did not buy bonds their services were at an end.
No m atter what a man’s moral convictions were about war,
no m atter what his resources and obligations, he had to buy
in order to live. The pressure was so great that most people
yielded to it. And the banks? I have been repeatedly in­
formed, by those supposed to know, that banks received from
our Government ten per cent for placing bonds. They offered
to carry bonds for employees buying on the instalment plan
who had paid the first or other payments. Then, persons who
had been coerced into buying, rushed to the banks to get rid
UNIVE
Digitized by G O O g l e
n
8 HONESTY
of their subsequent instalments, preferring to forfeit what
they had paid. And so the patriotic banks got their commis­
sions from the Government of ten per cent, appropriated the
forfeited payments of more than ten per cent, and also
received the interest on the bonds from the Government.
Not unprofitable patriotism. Is it surprising that bank stocks
immediately soared to the unparalleled high level they now
hold?
Boswell quotes illustrious Samuel Johnson as saying,
“Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel.” In view of
the history of the late war, we might define it as “Big Busi­
ness.” Were the banks honest with the people? What is
honesty?
Leaving those hectic times, let us examine the banking
conditions in the peaceful and prosperous year 1927. Time
will not suffice for a country-wide survey so we will confine
our attention to local conditions. C. C. Julian incurred the
enmity of powerful financial interests in order to save those
who had entrusted their money to him; he turned over the
Julian Oil Company, at a great loss to himself, to a man
recommended by banks as being friendly with the financial
powers. The recipient was indeed friendly to some of the
banks and had no difficulty in financing the Company a t
usurious rates, nor did he have any difficulty in floating
spurious stock, through the banks and other Big Businesses,
which were in a position to know the character of the paper
and securities they were handling. The newspapers say the
experience cost the people of Southern California something
over sixty million dollars. While this was going on, the
group of banks in question, and their business associates,
were urging their friends to buy Julian stock until it hurt; and
it did hurt to the extent stated, some people losing their life’s
savings. Contemporaneous with this, the local newspapers
were carrying articles cautioning the public against floating
stock swindlers who were mulcting the people of America of
over a half a billion dollars annually, and advising their
readers to consult their local bankers before purchasing
stock.
I once heard a story of two pawn brokers doing business
in adjacent stores. To secure the trade, one put out the sign:
“Don’t go next door to be swindled, come in here.” Let it
Y OF CALIFORNIA
HONESTY 9
be said to the credit of some of the local banks that they
did all in their power to dissuade their customers from having
anything to do with the Julian stock or paper.
What was done with the bankers and business men who
violated the moral and criminal, code? Some held on to their
loot and preferred to get immunity through a jury trial—
for those men had no fear of courts. Others compounded
their crimes by returning the usurious part of their loot
through complaisant law officials and thus escaped criminal
prosecution. Petty offenders could not have gotten off so
easily, but it never would have done to prosecute leading
citizens—expatriots; unfortunately I cannot say expatriates.
Now, the Big Business men involved in that transaction
are said to be representative men of the community. Their
social positions cannot be questioned. They are leaders in
fraternal orders, prominent church members, and important
members in the exclusive clubs. The people of the City of
Los Angeles were well acquainted with all the facts in the
case. Were any of these bankers and business men socially
ostracized? Did any fraternal order dare expel any of them
as members? Did any church excommunicate them or strike
their names from their rolls? Did any club cancel their
membership? How many of you, my listeners, withdrew your
funds from the exposed banks? Will State and Church and
Society forever condone all offences? Can crime ever be
controlled by man if every offence is forgiven and every
offender paroled to repeat his acts? How can there be respect
for law and order as long as “the moths eat the ermine and
the world kisses the leper on both cheeks”?
But all our leading citizens are not bankers; some are
affiliated with Big Business through oil. It is strange that a
public necessity and blessing, given us by kindly nature,
should be associated throughout its history with so much
dishonesty. The early years of the oil industry have been out­
lined by Ida M. Tarbell in her book, “The History of the
Standard Oil Company.” (2 Vols.) 1904.
To save time, we will again confine our attention to local
illustrations. One of our patriotic multi-millionaires, whose
fortune was made in oil, recently was dispossessed of some
holdings of public property acquired through fraud. This
was the judgment of the Supreme Court of the United States
whose decisions we are taught to worship as the ultimate
UNIVERSITY OF (
HONESTY
truth. This man was tried also criminally for his act;* but,
being a multi-millionaire, he escaped conviction—of course.
Upon his return to Los Angeles, the other Big Business men
gave the citizen in question a breakfast at a celebrated Club
and offered him their felicitations for having escaped im­
prisonment and fine for his fraud. That in itself is a suffi­
cient commentary upon the moral standard of our commun­
ity as exemplified by Big Business. There are other crimi­
nal suits pending against this representative patriot in con­
nection with his “acquiring” the property of the people. But,
does any one think he will, be convicted? And why not? Are
the courts, the juries, or the public prosecutors so corrupt
that it is hard to convict a rich man? It is easier for a camel
to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to
enter a Penitentiary—or to enter the Kingdom of Heaven.
^ It is these inequalities in the courts and the conduct of
leading citizens that cause so much banditry. The Big Busi­
ness man uses his mentality—his force—to carry out his
desires, while the bandit uses his physical courage, or his
automatic, to accomplish his purpose. Crime breeds crime
wherever known—and it is always known in time, though fre­
quently not punished by the courts. Printed accounts of
the wealth acquired by dubious or dishonest means incite
avarice in those who are morally weak*—social or financial
position is not a factor in the equation.
It is not always corruption which prevents punishment by
the courts. Often the judges, and even the prosecutors, are
honest, and the juries try to be. But there is a dangerous
element always to be reckoned with in every person whose
reason is latent, and that element is sympathy. Man is
prone to condone in others the moral defects he finds within
himself; therefore, it is hard for juries to find defendants
guilty, in criminal cases involving moral turpitude, where
so-called respectable people are involved. It is this same
dangerous emotion which gives rise to maudlin sympathy for
criminals by the “sob sisters” of both sexes. These individu­
als are accountable to an outraged society for promiscuous
probation of criminals. It is hard enough to get a conviction
in the courts without the handicap to justice of having the
criminal paroled. The courts never can be a menace to crime
until punishment follows crime with the certainty of cause
and effect. ♦
Digitized by Google Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
HONESTY 11
Turning to political, life, we find it reflecting conditions in
the business world. And this is natural because our so-called
representatives, or our misrepresentatives, are elected largely
by some special interests which desire legislative conces­
sions and use their power to decide the election. In the early
days of this Republic, we sent to the State and the National
legislative bodies men of culture and of moral caliber, like
the Spartan statesmen. Those men actually represented their
constituency. Now, a public office is not a public trust; but,
in the words of a late politician, “is a private snap,” and
such is present-day politics; but are the politicians, as a
class, honest?
There is a peculiar branch of business known as bonding
companies that have arisen, or grown great, within the first
quarter of the present century. These companies bond a man
to carry out his contracts, and guarantee that a man entrusted
with money will not steal it. Most employees now are re­
quired to give a bond before entering upon their duties,
because business must protect itself financially. But think of
the condition of society where a man cannot hold a position
of trust without an indemnifying bond to guarantee his hon­
esty. Would a visitor from Venus estimate highly a civiliza­
tion where honesty is at such an ebb that no man can be
trusted? Even in the much-sneered-at Victorian age, a con­
dition of this kind did not exist. Man trusted his fellowman.
A dying man entrusted his fortune and his family to his
friend, knowing both were safe in kindly, honest hands—save
in exceptional cases. Is our age degenerating or degenerate?
It is an old adage: “Like master, like man,” meaning that
human nature in undeveloped man is imitative; that each
stratum of society is aped by the one immediately beneath.
We have spoken thus far mainly about the employing class;
but what of the employees—the so-galled laboring class? In
former centuries trade guilds were formed to protect their
members; to insure higher grades of workmanship; and to
afford opportunities to apprentices to work under competent
masters. Now, we have Labor Unions organized to get, or
extort, the >.highest possible wages; or, failing in this, to
attempt to cripple, or ruin, the employer, by strikes, sabotage,
or any other legal, or illegal, means. Instead of elevating
their respective lines of work, they too often degrade them
by advocating a “get by” policy. Instead of stimulating the
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Digitized by G o o g l e
HONESTY
slower and less competent workmen, and encouraging them to
imitate their superior fellow workmen, they require the
better and faster worker to make his output conform to that
of the less competent man. Instead of paying each man
according to his merits, the unions insist upon each man
receiving the same compensation. Is this honest? There is
no intent to condemn labor unions, as such, any more than
Big Business, as such. It is right that each should combine
to protect and benefit itself; but to have a clean civilization,
is it not essential that both labor and capital conduct their
affairs on honest principles?
The professional men form a third class/fn society; and
how does it compare now with its history in recent previous
times? The clergy has certainly lost its social prominence,
and its intellectual status is substantially nil because medie­
val theology is illogical. Is it honest, then, for a man to
preach that which he does not believe? There is no doubt
that there are honest preachers in the churches as well as
honest members. But there are some men, in the church,
with such intellectual attainments that one cannot help won­
dering how they can reconcile their preaching with their
avowed belief in honesty.
The doctors are in an anomalous position; we say to them,
“Use your utmost skill to cure me quickly and as soon as
you do I will stop your pay.” It takes more than the ordinary
man to be honest under such circumstances. Is it any won­
der, then, that ignorance and avarice unite to recommend
operations for cash, instead of protracted cures and more
work for less pay?
Doctors, lawyers, dentists, and the other professions in
recent years have formulated “ethical codes” for their respec­
tive members. Why were these necessary? In former times
the codes of each profession were covered by the one word
“honesty.”
Let us turn the kaleidoscope and see what new patterns
are formed—some are the same people we have been describ­
ing, but in another environment. In the beginning of this
century there was presented a play, in New York City, en­
titled, “Alias Jimmy Valentine.” It was what is now desig­
nated as a “Crook Play,” the first of an ever-increasing class
of such plays. Its success was instantaneous and it soon had
many imitations. The public did not tire of such plays, and
v j i l y m d i i i u r n
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Origirial from
HONESTY 13
soon the motion picture industry contributed more than its
share of such output. This was followed by a flood of short
stories covering the same ground. Magazines were organized
to print, exclusively, stories of crime, and still the public
was, and is, unsatiated. Think of making heroes of crooks.
Psychologists tell us that in plays, pictures, and stories, men
and women live their own suppressed desires vicariously. Are
the people of this generation dishonest at heart? How else
can we account for the phenomena of the glorification of
crime? Any student of psychology must know the power of
suggestion. Pictured or printed crime cannot help but breed
crime through suggestion. The adolescent, plastic minds
viewing plays and pictures where criminals are glorified,
must form their ideals on this basis. Is it any wonder, then,
that most of the arrested criminals of the present day are
between the ages of fourteen and twenty-five—coincident with
the growth of crime literature, plays, and pictures?
The authors and purveyors of the purulent products try
to justify their conduct by claiming that they are picturing
life as it is—and say that is the highest art. Offal and
sewage are facts, but not food; and should we not be careful
of mental food which feeds character? The agencies referred
to have a heavy karmic debt to pay which will be liberally
shared by sensational newspapers which wallow in their
descriptions of crime committed by “handsome gentlemen
burglars” and “beautiful lady bandits.”
In speaking of the public press, we must do homage to
its power; but, is it honestly used? Do political “pulls” and
personal preferences influence its utterances? Can its news
columns and editorial pages be influenced by big advertisers?
And so we might go on indefinitely, taking up one phase of
business life after another with the same result. But mone­
tary dishonesty is not the only kind of dishonesty. There is
sex dishonesty. Many people claim that they could not be
induced, under any circumstances, to be financially dishonest,
and yet lightly admit their sexual infidelities. These per­
sons sadly deceive themselves, for no one can be financially
honest and sexually dishonest. When they think otherwise it
is because they have not been adequately tempted. This
must be true when the basic natures of the two classes of
cases are considered. The undisciplined love of money is
greed for physical pleasure, or for power. The love for
Digitized by t ^ o o c i e
Original from
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
14 HONESTY
unrestrained sexual indulgence is the greed for physical
pleasure, or for power. The power in both cases is the power
of conquest—the power to rule the actions and bodies of men
and women, and is based on vanity. In both cases the person
is ruled by desire, having its origin in the lower mind. There­
fore the higher mind is not functioning; there is no self-
control; and where a person fails to control himself he may
be controlled by others, or by circumstances, and conse­
quently is unworthy, undependable, and a potential victim to
adequate temptation.
Then, there is intellectual dishonesty in all its gradations.
In its cruder form, it is a necessary concomitant of the other
two classes of dishonesty. No one will contend that a person
who is a thief, or is guilty of sexual infidelity, would fail to
lie about the matter. In the latter case the honest(?) world
calls it, “Lying like a gentleman.” What utterly crude con­
ceptions undeveloped man holds.
The subtler forms of intellectual dishonesty are those
which blind the soul. People do not believe what their intui­
tions suggest, or their minds logically deduce; they only
believe what they desire to believe. It is desire raised to the
mental plane; but so strong is the force of that desire, it
hypnotizes its victim. Nowhere is this better exemplified
than in religious matters—strange as it may appear. Most
religionists do not hesitate to lie in behalf of their creeds and
churches, thinking that they are honoring God by their con­
duct and that the end justifies the means. It is common
knowledge that the members of one sect do not correctly
represent the religious doctrines and practices of another,
and exaggerate the benefits to be derived from their own.
And this is not confined to the older cults but is painfully
evident in the experience meetings of the new.
How can either preachers or parishioners hope to acquire
truth and its liberating and beneficial results, if they delib­
erately, or hypnotically, practice untruth? Bitter and sweet
waters cannot flow from the same source. All minds who
think to the contrary must necessarily belong to the fairy-
story class of intellects who prefer the illusions to the reali­
ties of life. How many preachers actually seek the truth,
and when it is found, dare give it to their congregations,
when it contradicts a theological tenet? Is it honest to pre­
tend to lead in the path of truth knowing that there is a
HONESTY 15
higher, different truth? Priests and clergymen should know
that the people will not take stones for bread much longer.
It is no justification to such pretended leaders to say that
their followers are not ready for higher truths; is it not hon­
est to offer them and let each accept, or reject, according to
his needs?
It is a mistake to think that a religious belief is unim­
portant in influencing a man’s character—a man’s evolution..
His religion, or philosophy, consciously*,: or !miconsciouery,
makes, or mars, his character, his environment"an*d his fulure,
just as his food affects his body. We are.speaking of a ifiafi’s
honest belief, not his pretended bollef-a^uhaed *for scrme^
ulterior motive. The fact that he subscribes to a creed in
which he does not believe shows his mental dishonesty; and
yet, many persons join a church as they would join a club,
utterly without any conception of the God whom they pre­
tend to worship. They should know they cannot deceive Him
as they do their fellow man.
An honest man uses all that is best and highest within
him to select his religious philosophy, feeling, or knowing,
that it is the most important thing in his life. It is for this
reason that so many honest people are leaving the Church
called Christian. They realize that the Church is largely
responsible for the dishonesty of the age; that the Church
is established upon the false assumption that there can be
a forgiveness of sins and a vicarious atonement. This is
another way of asserting that there is no Divine Justice, for
such Justice is another name for cause and effect.
If the caprice, favoritism, or vanity of a God, or the belief
of a man, or any other human emotion, can sever the rela­
tionship of cause and effect, then this becomes a world of
chaos and not of law. But we know from observation that
this is a Universe of law. It is affirmed by the planets swing­
ing in their orbits. It is testified to by the regularity of the
seasons. It is confirmed by chemical reactions. We recognize
it in cases of sickness and of health. Everywhere and at all
times, nature proclaims it; and nature is the body of God
through which man may know God. And as against the testi­
mony of God, through His body, all that we have to rely upon
is the theory of priests founded upon passages in unverified
documents called the gospels; which passages are contra­
dicted by others in the same documents. But the priests give
Google
HONESTY
out these teachings because they and the people want to
believe them and are willing to surrender their judgment to
do so. Priests and people are self-hypnotized on this subject.
There is nothing new in the doctrine. The Jews had it in
their religion before the time of Christ with the only differ­
ence that they used a goat instead of a man for their salva­
tion. Among the Greeks is found the same fable. And his-
AQrY showg, as,far; back as it goes into the night of time,
frhajt /people /fo% ver sought to escape the consequences of
tfieir acts.
I • 'seq the;logical!consequences of this pernicious doc-
*’ 'trine'iipon'this age'. The dogma is tantamount to saying, you
can unbridle your passions, disregard all ethics, trample upon
the rights of your fellow men, and commit any crime; and if
you can escape the faulty human law, you can escape any
moral, or other effects, by accepting a creed and letting Jesus
assume the consequences of your acts. The result of this
immoral teaching upon undeveloped man must be apparent.
Is it any wonder that true(?) Christians have no reason to
exercise self-control, or to obey human or natural laws? Is it
not this dogma that prompts emotional and irrational men
and women to coddle criminals and prevent them from taking
the consequences of their crimes under the human law?
Does not this pernicious belief bring about a disregard for
any and all law? No wonder such people pray: “Forgive us
our sins,” instead of: Give us a knowledge of Thy law, in
order that we may walk therein.
But, beliefs do not change facts, and there is ethical causa­
tion as well as physical causation; for a natural law must be
uniform upon all planes of being. Theological minds observe
the inequalities of life on every hand, and, in accordance
with their religion, attribute them to the likes and dislikes
of their God—to His caprice. What a very human and imper­
fect God they have. But, if these ignorant sons of God could
see the operation of the Law of Divine Justice, they would
know that the inequalities of life were directly due to the
thoughts and acts of men, themselves; that a man who is
dishonest attracts to himself dishonest people, lives in a cur­
rent of dishonesty, and, soon or late, loses all he has gained
through dishonest methods by some time having things swept
away from him and at other times being taken from them;
but in all cases reaping what he has sown.
Original from
U N IV E R S IT Y OF C A LIFO R N IA
HONESTY 17
A man may escape the human law but never the Divine
Law. He may fool his fellowmen but never God. Some­
times the adjustment is not made in the life in which the
cause is put into operation, but in his succeeding earth life
he has meted to him the measure he meted to others—and
between earth lives there is little happiness for him. Until
this fact of nature supersedes the so-called Christian theology,
we never can hope for a higher civilization because such a
civilization must be built by wise and strong men. A person
is weak and not wise who seeks to escape the consequences
of his acts.
The defenders of this age point with pride to the fact that
imperfect as this civilization is, it is far superior to any that
preceded it. This is justly conceded by every evolutionist.
There has been no intention, in this lecture, to impute dis­
honesty to all persons. But, in discussing a scientific m atter
a man has no right to be either an optimist or a pessimist;
he must see facts as they are. We have tried to make a just
survey of this age and are led irresistibly to the conclusion
that the majority of men are dishonest in one or more of
the particulars pointed out. Therefore this is a dishonest
age.
The physical sciences show that each surviving form was
superior to all that preceded it, but none sufficiently perfect
to itself persist. Does not this same law apply to civilizations?
History seems to answer affirmatively. Undoubtedly we are
better than we were, in other cycles of time, but are we fit
enough to survive? In the first quarter of this century,
Nature says, “No,” as Occultists interpret her tongue; for
the death rate of the world is greater than the birth rate.
This is due, not alone to birth control by man, nor even to his
wars; but nature, herself, repudiates, as futile, our efforts
to form a civilization, and is compelled to destroy them by
constantly increasing fires, floods, tempests, disease, and
earthquakes—and what nature starts to do, she always accom­
plishes. Otherwise there could be no evolution.
This decision of nature is not an arbitrary one, like the
caprice of the Christian God; but is automatic, operating as
cause and effect. Everywhere there is evolution, or devolu­
tion. Man must progress, or retrogress. There is no stand­
ing still. All forms which do not prove to be higher vehicles
for consciousness, or minds, no longer attract life and con-
Digitized by
Original from
U N IV E R S IT Y OF C A LIFO R N IA
HONESTY
sciousness, and, consequently pass away. Nature is not
hampered in her forward movements by theological, or even
scientific, theories of men. Men must adapt themselves to
nature if they are to survive. The fittest are those who serve
Nature best, not those who put their desires, or wills, in
opposition to her. And what is Nature’s will? The Occultist
says it is the will to evolve. To evolve is to be constructive,
while selfishness is destructive. It is all a m atter of vibra­
tion and the law of attraction.
/ Mind attracts to itself whatever it dwells upon; the
results are measured, in time, by the strength of the individu­
al mind and its persistency of purpose. A person whose
object in life is to accumulate wealth, by fair means or foul,
attracts to himself the object of his obsessing desire. But
that desire has a mental color of its own which tinges his
life. Disregard of the rights of others—dishonesty—is a dark
green vibration. Continuous selfishness lowers the vibration
of the mind to a darker and still darker green until it melts
into black—indicating a loss of all spirituality. Then, such
a mind draws from nature only destructive atoms from the
Cosmic Current black, until that Current first disrupts the
mind that attracts it and then absorbs it. It is automatic
justice self-inflicted. Such minds on their way to destruc­
tion are met occasionally in daily life, or more often con­
tacted in the newspapers where the pictures of the degen­
erates occupy the first pages as temporary heroes of many
murders, or of other crimes. They do not reach that level
in the life in which they commence their devolution, but after
several lives of utter selfishness and dishonesty.
The disruption of Cosmic Currents not only affects the
minds and bodies of men, but also the earth itself; therefore,
where millions of minds are vibrating in the dark green, the
dark red, and the black current, they focalize those currents,
disturb the equilibrium of nature, and cause the unmerciful
disasters to property and life so frequently observed.
And what does the man gain who achieves dishonest
wealth? Does he gain wisdom, happiness, health, long life,
and the respect of his fellow men? No. Only a modicum of
temporary power. Mankind has no conception of real power
—the power of the trained, constructive mind, for the few
who possess such power seldom display it, but regard it as a
sacred trust acquired only to be used to aid Divine Mind in
Digitized by G o o g le Original from
U N IV E R S IT Y OF C A LIFO R N IA
HONESTY 19
evolutionary processes. That is the happiness of those who
have gained “The kingdom of Heaven,” and to whom all other
things are added; for all good and nothing but good flows
unimpeded to such minds. This is true of all people who, in
a lesser degree and according to their light, try to work in
harmony with Divine Mind.
There is a strong minority on earth today who are honest
and who have not made obeisance to Mammon; and it is
they who will, form the new civilization. Consciously or sub­
consciously their conduct is guided by the common code of
ethics reiterated by each new helper of mankind—each elder
Brother of the race. It is fashionable now to be sophisticated
and to ignore, or sneer at, “old-fashioned morality,” but
ethics are fundamental and are the expressions of natural law
—as each surviving mind learns in time. By inherent fitness
let us unite with all those who seek to survive this age,
which we can do by observing this injunction:
“To thine own self be true,
And it must follow, as night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man.”
Digitized by b o o g i e
Original from
U N IV E R S IT Y OF C A LIFO R N IA
