{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__haanel___the_new_psychology____v6.pdf","mytitle":"The New Psychology","mylang":"de"}
The New Psychology
PSYCHO-ANALYSIS ~
METAPHYSICS
PHILOSOPHY
SCIENCE
13y
(harles F. Haanel
VOLUME VI
THE MASTER KEY INSTITUTE
597 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK, N. Y.
COPYRIGHT 1928
COPYRIGHT 1922
COPYRIGHT 1923
COPYRIGHT 1924
BY
CHARLES F. HAANEL
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THE U, S, A.
/ ---
---------
---- __..-- '
- __..-- -
---
He has achieved success who has
lived well, laughed often and loved
much; who has gained the trust of
pure women and the love of little
children; who has filled his niche
and accomplished his tasks; who
has left the world better than he
found it; who has never lacked ap-
preciation of earth's beauties or
failed to express it; who has always
looked for the best in others and
given the best he had; whose life was
an inspiration, whose memory a
benediction.-B. A. STANLEY.
(ontents: Volume Six
PAGE
Part Nineteen
PSYCHO-ANALYSIS
Part Twenty
METAPHYSICS
Part Twenty-one
PHILOSOPHY . . 539
Part Twenty-two
SCIENCE . 557
Psycho-<U'lnalysis
Part :J.(j_,neteen
PSYCHO-ANALYSIS
"cANST thou not minister to a
mind diseased," asked Mac-
beth of the Doctor-but the
passage is so strikingly fitting, so pro-
phetically explanatory of psycho-analy-
sis, that it must be given in full:
Macbeth: Canst thou not minister to a
mind diseased,
Pluck from the memory a rooted
sorrow,
Raze out the written troubles of the
brain,
And with some sweet oblivious anti-
dote
Cleanse the stuff'd bosom of that
perilous stuff
Which weighs upon the heart?
485
The ~w Psychology
Doctor: Therein the patient must
minister to himself.
There is hardly a person today exempt
from some form of phobia, or fear,
whose origin may date so far back as to
be lost among the shadows of childhood;
hardly a person is free from some aver-
sion, or "complex," whose effects are a
matter of daily occurrence, despite the
will of the victim. In a sense, the sub-
consciousness has never forgotten the in-
cident, and still harbors the unpleas-
ant memory of it; the consciousness,
however, in an attempt to protect our
dignity, or vanity, whichever you pre-
fer, may evolve some apparent, better
reason than the original one. Thus
complexes are formed. Brontephobia,
or fear of thunder, was brought about
in the case of one patient by hearing a
cannon go off very near her when she
486
Psycho-utfn.alys£s
was a child; a fact which had been "for-
gotten" for years; to confess to such a
fear, even to one's self, would have
been childish-and fear to the somewhat
more dignified cause of thunder. Need-
less to say, it is such disguises of the
memories which make difficult the labor
of the psycho-analyst to pluck from the
memory a rooted sorrow, to raze out the
written troubles of the brain, its "trau-
mas" or the original shocks. And when
we remember that Psyche in Greek
means not only the mind, but the soul,
we can better understand Shakespeare's
amazing grasp of psychology when he
speaks not only of the "mind diseased,"
but of "that perilous stuff which weighs
upon the heart."
We all have these complexes, in forms
ranging from the mild to the severe :
sitophobia, the aversion to certain foods;
487
'Ihe ~w Psychology
claustophobia, the fear of locked doors-
to which the fear of open spaces forms a
striking contrast; stage-fright; touching
wood and other superstitions-a thor-
ough list would indeed be a very long
one.
For the greater part, the patient must
minister to himse~f-with the help of
the skilled psycho-analyst. In some cases
elaborate processes are needed, and the
use of psychometers and other delicate
registering devices enlisted; but usually,
the procedure is a simple one. The sub-
ject of investigation is made comfortable
physically, and put in a quiet mood; he
is then told to utter whatever may come
into his mind in connection with his
complex- with occasional promptings
and questions from the psycho-analyst.
Sooner or later the association of ideas
will bring to the surface the original
488
'Psycho-Jfnalysis
cause or experience, which had become
"rooted," submerged; very often the
mere explanation will suffice to eradicate
the obsession.
But there is another group of dis-
orders, hysteria, which may partake both
of the physical and the psychical, or
where either state may induce the other.
Richard Ingalese in his "History and
Power of Mind," has summed up the
matter very clearly: "Disease may be
divided into two classes, the imaginary
and the real. Imaginary disease is a
picture held firmly by the objective
mind, which causes more or less physical
correspondence. This kind of disease is
often created in total disregard of the
laws governing anatomy or physiology;
and is the hardest to cure, because per-
sons possessed of it hold to it so persist-
ently that an entire revision of their
489
'The ~w 'Psychology
mode of thought must be made before
it can be cured. It is not at all infre-
quent to have a patient complain of kid-
ney disease, locating the pain and the
organs several inches below the waist
line. The spleen is often supposed to be
in the right side of the body, and phan-
tom tumors appear and disappear. But
all these mental pictures, if held long
enough, create matrices or vortices, and
draw into them the elements that will
bring finally the actual disease that was
at first purely imaginary."
/ Psycho-analysis proceeds upon the as- I
sumption that a very large number of
cases of disease are caused by repression
of normal desires, or by disturbances
that have occurred in the past life of /
the individual. In such cases the root '
of the disease is so concealed, sometimes
490
Psycho-cAnalysis
through years and years, that it must
be searched for.
The psycho-analyst is enabled to locate
such difficulties, through dreams, or
rather through the interpretation of
dreams, or by questioning the patient
concerning his past life. The well
trained analyst must of necessity secure
the friendly confidence of the patient
to such an extent that the latter will not
hesitate to reveal any experience, no
matter how intimate.
As soon as the patient has been led to
remember a particular experience, he is
encouraged to talk about it in detail and
thus it is brought up from subconscious-
ness. The analyst then shows him what
has been causing the difficulty and when
the cause is eradicated it can do no more
harm.
It is exactly parallel to a foreign sub-
491
'Ihe ~w Psychology
stance in the flesh; there is a horrible
swelling, with inflammation, pain, and
suffering; the surgeon is called, removes
the difficulty, and nature does the rest.
The psychological law follows the same
procedure. If there has been any ab-
normal activity, any festering sore in the
subconscious mind, going on for years
and years, if it can be located by a proc-
ess of mental analysis and put out of the
mental complex and shown to the patient,
the catharsis is complete.
Dr. Hugh T. Patrick, clinical pro-
fessor of nerves and mental disease
in Northwestern University Medical
School, mentions several interesting
cases.
''In many cases of functional nervous
disorders the factor of fear is quite ob-
vious. But in many cases, though equally
important, it is not at once apparent.
492
Psycho-ufnalysis
Of the latter there are numerous varieties
which may be divided into groups. One
group embraces patients known to have
physical courage. A few years ago
there was referred to me one of the most
noted as well as fearless men in the ring,
a man who was peculiarly carefree, if
not careless. He was suffering with
what were considered rather vague and
baffling nervous symptoms, principally
insomnia, lack of interest, and moodi-
ness. A careful analysis soon revealed
that some trifling symptoms, due to high
living and domestic friction, had served
to put the idea into his head that he was
losing his mind. This phobia was sick-
ness, and the fear so possessed his soul
that he was good for nothing until he
got rid of it. Needless to say, the patient
himself was quite unconscious of the ,
493
The :JX£w Psychology
nature of ·his trouble, and his physician
had overlooked it."
So they could not cure the trouble
from a physical standpoint. The situa-
tion had to be mentally analyzed, and
the cause of the fear dragged out from
subconsciousness and exposed to the man.
When he had a look at it, why, it had
exactly the same effect as pulling an
eyelash out from an inflamed eye and
letting you see it. Your troubles are all
over right away, because you are very
sure the disturbing cause has been re-
moved, and you forget about it then.
"A sheep rancher of Wyoming com-
plained of insomnia, loss of appetite, ab-
dominal distress, general nervousness and
inability to look after his ranch. What
really was the matter with him was fear
of cancer of the stomach. This phobia
completely unnerved him and caused
494
Psycho-u'fnalysi"s
him to enormously magnify every bodily
sensation. But was he a nerveless cow-
ard? Decidedly not. There ~as a time
when the cattlemen of the Far West
made sheep raising a hazardous occupa-
tion. Through these dangerous years he
lived without a tremor, though he never
went to sleep without a rifle by his side.
Once he was informed that three cattle-
men had started out to 'get him,' and the
information was correct. He mounted
his horse and, properly armed, rode out
to meet them. As he expressed it, he
'talked them out of it,' and the three
would-be assassins turned and rode away.
In this encounter he was not in the least
apprehensive or uncomfortable, and I
learned of the incident only in a con-
versation about his business."
He had plenty of physical courage,
but when something in the inner organ-
495
'Ihe ~w Psychology
ism seemed to be wrong, he was scared.
As soon as this doctor discovered what
the fear was, he probably produced an
X-ray or something of that nature to
show the patient that there was nothing
the matter. Then drawing the patient's
attention to the groundless fear, the doc-
tor was able to convince the patient of
the groundlessness of his fears.
"A policeman, 49 years old, suffered
from intractable insomnia, head pressure,
general nervousness and loss of weight.
He was not a man to suspect of fear.
For many years he had been in active
service in one of the worst precincts of
Chicago, and on account of his famili-
arity with criminals was frequently sent
after the worst types. He had been in
numerous 'gun' fights. Once a notorious
'gunman' standing beside him fired point
blank at his head. All this disturbed his
496
Psycho-utfnalysz's
equanimity not a whit. And yet his ill-
ness was the result of fear pure and
simple. It came about in this way; a
malicious person had preferred against
him charges of misconduct, and he was
cited to appear before the trial board.
This worried him greatly. Innocent, he
keenly felt the disgrace of the accusation
and feared that he might be suspended
or even discharged. He trembled for
his well-earned good name and for his
home, on which there was a mortgage.
Naturally he began to sleep poorly, to
have queer feelings in his head, and then
to feel uncertain of himself. At this
juncture some friends sympathetically
told him that one could go insane from
worry. These were the steps: Fear of
disgrace, fear of financial collapse, fear
of insanity. But did the patient know
all this? Not he. He knew only that
497
'The ~w Psychology
he was nervous, and that he suffered,
that he did not feel sure of himself."
When that was dragged out of his
consciousness and shown to him as a root
of his trouble, and a physician was able
to assure him that fear was all in the
world that was the matter with him, he
made up his mind that he had better
give that up. Then he was healed.
The subconscious mentality is sick in
a chronic way; it has been made sick by
some kind of a mental experience-
usually of many years' standing-and
the sickness is a result of its continuing
to cherish that experience and keeping it
before itself. This constitutes what is
technically called a "running sore" in
the subconsciousness-that is, mentally
not physically.
A woman had suffered from general
debility for a number of years, and had
498
Psycho-Jlnalysis
been unable to secure relief; the psychol-
ogist began to probe, to see what the
trouble was. He began to pronounce
words-just anything that came into his
thoughts: "desk, book, rug, Chinaman."
When he pronounced the word "China-
man" the woman appeared startled, and
he asked her what the word "China-
man" suggested to her and why it
startled her. The woman said that when
she was a little girl, she, with a play-
mate, used to play around a Chinese
laundry, that they used to plague the
Chinaman by throwing pebbles at him
through the open door; that one day the
Chinaman chased them with a big knife,
and that they were nearly scared to
death. "Yes," said the psychologist,
"that is one of the things that I wanted
to know." Then he began to pronounce
more words, presently the word "water,"
499
'The ~w Psychology
and again the woman was startled. It
developed then that one time when she
was a very little girl, she and her brother
were playing on the wharf and that
accidentally she pushed him into the
water and he was drowned. She said it
was many years ago, when she was a
mere child. He said: "Do you think
of these things very often?" She said:
"No, I do not know that I have thought
of them before in fifteen or twenty
years." "Well," he said, "I will tell
you what I want you to do." (She was
at that time in a sanitarium, under the
care of a nurse.) "I want you to tell
the nurse every day that experience about
the Chinaman and also the experience
about your brother, and I want you to
keep telling it until you have told it so
many times that you do not feel bad
about it any more; then, see me again in
500
'Psycho-Jfnalysis
two or three weeks." She did as he
directed, and at the end of sixty days
she was well. The effect of telling it so
often was its becoming commonplace to
the conscious mentality, without touch-
ing the feelings. So the suggestion then
went down to the subconsciousness that
it did not feel badly about the incident
any more, and the conditions of fear
which had persisted for twenty or
twenty-five years were erased, and the
complex in the subconsciousness was no
longer in evidence.
The subconscious mind has perfect
memory and is fully equipped at birth.
Every child inherits certain character-
istics from its ancestors. These are car-
ried in the subconscious mind and
brought into play when the life or health
of the individual requires them.
It is natural to be born without pain,
- 501
'The :J{£w Psychology
to develop without pain, to live without
pain, and to die without pain. This is
as natural as it is for a tree to blossom
and bear fruit, which at the proper time
drops off without distress. The subcon-
scious will take care of every situation;
even when it is interfered with it has a
remedy available for every situation.
Again, you forget something, but the
subconscious mind has not forgotten; as
soon as the conscious mind dismisses the
matter, it comes to us.
Every engineer knows what it is to
sleep over a problem; while he is asleep
the subconscious is working it out; or
he may lose an article, get excited and
anxious about it, and not be able to find
it; yet as soon as the conscious mind gives
it up and lets go, the sense of where it
is comes without effort.
Again there is a difficult situation in
502
Psycho-~nalysis
your affairs, if you can only persuade
your conscious mind to let go, to cease
its anxiety, dismiss its fear, give up the
tenseness and struggle, the subconscious
will ordinarily bring about prosperity.
The tendency of the subconscious is al-
ways toward health and harmonious con-
ditions. To illustrate, you are in the
water over your depth, you cannot swim,
you are sinking. If the moment the
life guard approaches, you grab him
around the neck and impede the action
of his arms and limbs, he may be unable
to do anything with you, but if you will
simply trust yourself in his hands, he
will get you out. And so it is absolutely
certain that subconscious will be present
in every difficult situation and that it will
tend to play life guard in your favor,
if you can but persuade your conscious-
ness to cease its anxiety, to dismiss its
503
'Ihe ~w Psychology
fears, to give up the tenseness of the
struggle.
Suppose the conscious mind suffers it-
self to become angry over every trifle.
Every time it gets angry the impulse is
transferred to the subconscious. The
impulse is repeated again and again,
each time it is stirred up. The second
record of anger is added to the first, the
third to the second, and the fourth to the
third. Soon the subconscious has ac-
quired the habit, and before long it will
be difficult to stop. When this situation
develops the conscious mind will be sub-
ject to the irritating influence from with-
out and the habitual impulse from
within. There will be action and re-
action. It will be easier to be angry and
more difficult to prevent it. Yet every
time the conscious mind gets angry an
additional impulse will be given to the
504
'Psycho-utfnalysis
subconscious, and that impulse will be
an additional incentive to get angry
agarn.
Now then, anger is an abnormal con-
dition, and any abnormal condition con-
tains within itself the penalty, and this
penalty will be promptly reflected in
that part of the body which has the least
resistance. For instance, if the person
has a weak stomach, there will be acute
attacks of indigestion, and eventually
these will become chronic. In other per-
sons, Bright's Disease may develop; in
another, rheumatism; and so on.
It is evident, therefore, that these con-
ditions are effects, but if the cause be re-
moved the effect will vanish. If the
individual knows that thoughts are
causes, and conditions are effects, he will
promptly decide to control his thoughts.
This will tend to erase anger and other
505
'Ihe ~w Psychology
bad mental habits; and as the light of
truth gradually becomes clear and per-
fect, the habit and everything connected
with it will be erased, and the accumu-
lated distress destroyed.
What is true of anger, is true of jeal-
ousy, of fear, of lust, of greed, of dis-
honesty, each of these may become sub-
conscious and each of them eventually
result in some diseased condition of the
body, and the nature of the disease indi-
cates to the trained analyst the nature
of the cause which was responsible for
the condition.
Frederic Pierce tells us in "Our Un-
conscious Mind":
"It is a matter of common observation
'that everyone is in greater or less degree
suggestible. The reaction to suggestion
may be either positive or negative, either
an acceptance or heightened resistance.
506
P sycho-J.lnalysis
In this we see a censorship. An epi-
demic of a certain type of crime shows,
on the part of the perpetrators, imitative
response to suggestion implanted both
by the elaborate descriptive accounts in
the newspapers, and by the great amount
of discussion of the outrages, heard on
all sides.
"Primitive effects of great intensity
are aroused; they break through the pri-
mary cultural censorship (which is weak
in the criminally disposed person), ac-
cumulate energy by being dwelt on in
consciousness, and finally become suffi-
ciently strong to surmount all fear of
punishment and to control the conduct.
"The remainder of the social group,
having a higher cultural censorship, re-
acts to the same suggestion negatively,
and discharges the energy of whatever
primitive effects have been aroused, in
507
The ~w Psychology
the form of wrath and the desire for
punishment of the criminals."
In this connection, it is interesting to
note that one often hears the desire for
vengeance expressed in terms of much
greater primitive violence than the crime
itself actually showed. Psycho-analysts
hold that this is a method by which the
individual is reinforcing his own none
too strong censorship of his Uncon-
sc10us.
Mind in itself is believed to be a subtle form of
static energy, from which rises the activities called
"thought," which is the dynamic phase of mind.
Mind is static energy, thought is dynamic energy-
the two phases of the same thing.
-Walker.
Tradition whispers that in the sky is a
bird, blue as the sky itself, which brings
to its finders happiness. But everyone
cannot see it; for mortal eyes are prone
to be blinded by the glitter of wealth,
fame, and position, and deceived by the
mocking Will-o'-the-Wisp of empty hon-
ors. But for the fortunate ones who seek
with open eyes and hearts, with the art-
lessness, simplicity and faith, which are
richest in childhood, there is an undying
promise; and to them the Blue Bird lives
and carols, a rejoicing symbol of Happi-
ness and Contentment unto the end.
Ureetaphysics
Part Twenty
METAPHYSICS
C
REATION consists in the art
of combining forces which
have an affinity for each other,
rn the proper proportion, thus oxygen
and hydrogen combined in the proper
proportions produce water. Oxygen
and hydrogen are both invisible gases
but water is visible.
Germs, however, have life; they must
therefore be the product of something
which has life or intelligence. Spirit is
the only Creative Principle in the Uni-
verse, and Thought is the only activity
which spirit possesses. ':Qierefore,_germs
must be the result of a menta!._. l?..r°..£~
A thought goes forth from the thinker,
it meets other thoughts for which it has
an affinity, they coalesce and form a nu-
513
The :lX!_,w Psychology
deus for other similar thoughts; this
nucleus sends out calls into the formless
energy, wherein all thoughts and all
things are held in solution, and soon the ·
thought is clothed in a form in accord-
ance with the character given to it by
the thinker.
A million men in the agony of death
and torture on the battlefield send out
thoughts of hatred and distress; soon an-
other million men die from the effect of
a microbe called "the influenza germ."
None but the experienced metaphysician
knows when and how the deadly germ
came into existence.
As there are an infinite variety of
thoughts, so there are an infinite variety
of germs, constructive as well as de-
structive, but neither the constructive
nor the destructive germ will germinate
514
c%etaphysics
and flourish until it finds congenial soil
in which to take root.
All thoughts and all things are held
in solution in the Universal Mind. The
individual may open his mental gates
and thereby become receptive to thoughts
of any kind or description. If he thinks
that there are magicians, witches or wiz-
ards who are desirous of injuring him,
he is thereby opening the door for the
entrance of such thoughts, and he will
be able to say with Job, "The things I
feared have come upon me." If, on the
contrary, he thinks that there are those
who are desirous of helping him, he
thereby opens the door for such help,
and he will find that "as thy faith is,
so be it unto thee" is as true today as
it was two thousand years ago.
Tolstoi said: "Ever more and more
clearly does the voice of reason become
515
'The :.A/!._,w Psychology
audible to man. Formerly men said:
'Do not think, but believe. Reason will
deceive you; faith alone will open to
you the true happiness of life.' And
man tried to believe, but his relations
with other people soon showed him that
other men believed in something en-
tirely different, so that soon it became
inevitable that he must decide which
faith out of many he would believe, rea-
son alone can decide this."
Attempts in our day to instill spiritual
matters into man by faith, while ignor-
ing his reason, are precisely the same as
attempts to feed :;i man and ignore hio/
mouth. Men's common nature has
proven to them that they all have a com-
mon knowledge, and men will never
more return to their former errors.
The voice of the people is the voice
of God. It is impossible to drown that
516
cYreetaphysics
voice, because that voice is not the single
voice of any one person, but the voice
of all rational consciousness of mankind,
which is expressed in every separate
man.
Reason tells man that the Universe is
a Cosmos, and is therefore governed by
law, so that when we see that some per-
sons secure extraordinary results by
mental or spiritual methods, reason tells
us that we can all do exactly the same
thing, because the law is no respecter
of persons, and that this is being done
every day all the time, everywhere, is
apparent to everyone who has taken the
trouble to ascertain the facts.
All manifestations are_governed by
principles which we recognize as uni-
versal laws, and in the manifestation of
those laws we recogmze system, order
and harmony.
517
'Ihe :l\(£w Psychology
If the Infinite is omnipresent it must
encompass and interfiltrate all that seems
to be matter and be one with it and in-
separable from it.
Science teaches that so-called matter
exists in a diversity of grades from its
crudest visible form to the most refined
and invisible state in an inseparable re-
lationship with spirit, from which it can
never be disassociated.
The latent, or electric, power in the
gaseous condition of the elements acts
through vibration upon all matter in the
combinations lower than the gases by in-
duction, raising them also to a fluidic or
gaseous condition and enabling them to
form new combinations on a higher
plane.
By the same principle is the mineral
raised to the sphere of electricity, mag-
netism, or light, which of themselves are
518
r:..5tfetaphysics
nothing more than ether in different ve-
locities of vibration.
Radio activity consists in setting in
motion certain electric vibrations, which
after passing through the ether, record
themselves on a distant receiver. The
whole system depends on the intangible
substance known as ether. It is a sub-
stance invisible, colorless, odorless, m-
conceivably rarefied, which fills all
space. It fills the space between the
earth and the sun and the stars, and it
also fills the minute space between the
atoms of the densest substance, such as
steel. Even when electricity passes
through a wire it is merely a vibration
of the ether which circulates between the
atoms composing the copper wire.
In turn we have abundant proof of
the subjugation of Ethe.real Matter by
the still more rarefied sphere of force
519
'The :N!..,w Psychology
which we recognize as Psychic Force or
Mind Force.
Matter thus refined becomes the plas-
tic associate of the mind for the trans-
mission of its forces in the manifestation
of its power.
That mind does transmit its forces
through, or by, its vibrations, we have
proof of in the expression of its power
of mind over mind, as in the manifesta-
tiqn of the mind of the hypnotist over
his subject through mental suggestion,
by which he is enabled to control the
entire organism of his subject to such
an extent as to suspend the functions of
the organs of the body at will.
Thus we see that the subtle or refined
elements of matter at the disposal of the
mind are subject to his control. Matter
in itself has no consciousness or feeling,
and is active only when controlled by
520
~etaphysics
sp1nt or mind in accordance with the
laws that govern its action, and when
active gives forth the manifestation and
power of the spirit, mind, or intelli-
gence behind it, and acting upon it; and
/
in its varied manifestations symbolizes
the wisdom or -intelligence of the mind
of man, or of the Infinite Mind itself.
As the Infinite Mind rules and governs
the Universe, so it is ordained for man
to rule and govern his living Universe
which he has created or evolved, known
as "The Temple of the Living God,"
an abridgement or Microcosm of the
Universe of the Infinite.
Wisdom is the proper use of knowl-
edge to bring about harmony, happiness,
ease and health. Ignorance is the dark-
ness which the light of truth disperses,
which light alone can enable us to under-
521
'The ~w 'Psychology
stand the priority of mind in the control
of matter.
The office of metaphysics is to bring
man into a true comprehension of his
relationship with the world, in which he
lives, moves, and has his being, and an
understanding of how to gain dominion
over all which is his rightful heritage.
The metaphysician gives the patient
nothing which he can see, nothing which
he can hear, nothing which he can taste,
nothing which he can smell and nothing
which he can feel. It is therefore abso-
lutely impossible for the practitioner to
reach the objective brain of the patient
in any way whatever.
It will be said that he may give a
mental suggestion; he may send him a
thought. This might be possible if it
were not for the fact that we do not
consciously receive the thoughts of
522
~etaphys£cs
others except through the medium of the
senses.
Again, admitting that it might be pos-
sible to reach the conscious mind with-
out the aid of any material agency, the
conscious or objective mind would not
receive it because the objective mind is
the mind with which we reason, plan,
decide, will, and act. The practitioner
invariably suggests perfection, and such
a thought would be instantly dismissed
by the objective mind as contrary to rea-
son and therefore unacceptable, so that
no result would be accomplished.
The Mind which the metaphysician
calls into action is the Universa!, not
the individual. Their formula is: "Di-
vine Mind always has met and always
will meet every human need." This
Divine Mind is the creative principle of
the Universe. It is the "Father" which
523
The :J..&.,w Psychology
the Nazarene had in mind when he said:
"It is not I that doeth the work, but the
Father that dwelleth within me. He
doeth the work."
It will at once become apparent that
this power which the metaphysician uti-
lizes is spiritual, not material; subjec-
tive, not objective. For this reason it
becomes necessary to reach the subcon-
scious mind instead of the conscious
mind. Here then is the secret of the
efficacy of the method. The sympa~
thetic nervous system is the organ of the
subconscious mind. This system of
nerves governs all of the vital processes
of the body-the circulation of the
blood, the digestion of food, the build-
ing of tissues, the manufacture and dis-
tribution of the various secretions; in
fact the sympathetic nervous system
reaches every part of the body. All
524
J'rfetaphysics
vital processes are carried on subcon-
sciously. They seem to have been pur-
posely taken out of the realm of the
conscious and placed under the control
of a power which would be subject to
no change or caprice.
The subjective mind, the subconscious
mind, the Divine Mind, are therefore
simply different terms of indicating the
"One mind in which we live and move
and have our being." We contact this
mind by will or intention. Mind i~ Om-
nipresent, we may therefore contact it
anywhere and everywhere, neither time
nor space require consideration.
As spirit is the Creative Principle of
the Universe, a subjective realization of
this spiritual nature of man, and his con-
sequent perfection, is taken up by the
Divine Mind and eventually manifested
in the life and experiences of the patient.
525
The :J\&.,w Psychology
Some will say that this ideal state of
perfection is never realized. To be sure,
the Great Teacher anticipated this criti-
cism, for did He not say: "In my
Father's house are many mansions"?-
indicating that there are many degrees
of perfection; that although the law op-
erates with immutable precision, the op-
erator may be uninformed or inexperi-
enced. The ability to throw the thought
up and beyond the evidence of the senses
into the realm of the uncreated, where
all that ever was or ever will be is wait-
ing to be brought forth, to be organized,
developed, and crystallized into tangible
form, is not the work of the enthusiast
who has just come into the knowledge of
his spiritual inheritance. It is rather the
work of one who has become responsive
to the most subtle vibrations, he who
can hear the Voice of the Silence, he
526
c.%etaphysics
who has come into the terrible realiza-
tion that the oasis he saw as he passed
over the desert was but a mirage, and
as he approached, it receded; he who
is no longer astonished or amazed to
find that after all, real power is imper-
sonal, that it may make a super-beast of
one and a super-man of another.
A great many do not understand
the Principle of Metaphysics and the
method of applying it so as to work
intelligently in their own behalf. Under
such conditions they can only expect to
rely on some one else, and when that is
done continually or at frequent intervals,
it tends to weaken rather than strengthen
the spiritual factor in consciousness.
It is, therefore, desirable and neces-
sary to secure an understanding of the
nature of Truth. Most persons who
have become interested in Metaphysics
527
The ~w Psychology
have had some wonderful experience or
they know of some one who has had
such an experience.
It has been declared by philosophers,
religionists, and scientists, again and
again, that· no proof of the existence of
the absolute Truth is possible, in other
words that the only way in which a man
can be convinced of the creative power
of Truth is by demonstration, or by
assuming that Truth is all powerful and
then on the basis of this assumption make
the demonstration. This is proof, this
is freedom, this is why it has been said:
"Ye shall know the truth and the truth
shall make you free."
Observation of the characteristic mani-
festations of anything and deductions
based upon such observation, constitute
knowledge of that thing; it will readily
be seen, therefore, that, if you have ob-
528
r:.5tCetaphysics .
served and have become aware of the
fact of certain characteristic manifesta-
tions of Truth, you will have knowledge.
If it should come to pass that you had
observed and carefully noted all the
characteristic manifestations of Truth,
and then in addition perceived the uni-
formities that run through those mani-
festations, especially if they are com-
plex, and see the laws or system upon
which their characteristics are based,
then your knowledge of Truth would be
complete.
Through the mental and spiritual
awakening of a century ago, which was
responsible for modern progressive
thought, certain higher forces and prin-
ciples were discovered in the mind of
man; and in the same way new realms
of thought and spiritual reality were
opened to consciousness-revelations, lit-
529
'The ~w Psychology
erally, that gave life a changed and mar-
velous meaning, and that caused the cos-
mos to extend into infinity, seemingly,
in every direction. And therefore a two-
fold purpose appeared at the very be-
ginning of this movement-to know the
Real M an, and to know the Real Cos-
mos; an ancient desire, but which was
reborn at this time, and with so much
life and virility that it has become today
a soul passion in the minds of millions.
What then are the characteristics of
Truth? All agree that in the philosoph-
ical sense Truth is that which is absolute
and changeless. Truth must then be a
fact; what then is a fact? Well, three
times three equals nine. That is a fact,
always was a fact, always will be a fact;
there can be no evasion, no argument,
no equivocation. It is truth in the
United States, in China, in Japan; it is
530
Ureetaphysics
true everywhere; all the time. A fact
exists in the nature of things without
beginning, without end, without limita-
tion, it governs our actions and our com-
mercial operations. Those who would
undertake to disregard it would do so
at their peril. It is, however, a fact
which you cannot see, you cannot hear,
you cannot taste, nor can you smell or
feel it, it is inapprehensible to any of the
physical senses; is it therefore any less
a fact? It is without color, size or form;
is it for this reason any less true? It is
without years; is it for that reason not
the same yesterday, today, and forever?
You may use this fact as long as you
live, millions of other persons may use
it as often as they like, that will not
destroy it. Use does not change it; from
everlasting to everlasting-three times
531
'The :JXt.,w Psychology
three equals nine. This is therefore a
fact or the Truth.
Truth is the only possible knowledge
which man can possess, because knowl-
edge which is not based upon truth
would be false, and would therefore not
be knowledge at all.
Counterfeit money is not true money,
it is false, however much it may pass for
true. The Truth is, therefore, all that
any one can know, for what is not true
does not exist, therefore we cannot know
it. We all think we know much that is
not so, but what is not so does not exist,
therefore we cannot know it.
Therefore, the Truth or absolute
knowledge is the only possible knowl-
edge and any other use of the word is
not scientific or exact.
The metaphysicians of the East will
not give out spiritual knowledge miscel-
532
c%etaphysi'cs
laneously. They will not give it to chil-
dren or young people except under con-
ditions when they have them directly un-
der control and directly under instruc-
tion as definitely as we have our children
under instruction in the intellectual life
in our schools.
In India when a young man is to be
initiated into things spiritual, a definite
seven years' course is provided for him
under a master, and he is given first the
things that he first ought to know along
these lines. He is forewarned with re-
gard to dangers that may arise, and the
whole course of his journey is guarded
by his master with the greatest care, so
as to prevent his stumbling during the
early stages.
If spiritual metaphysics becomes pop-
ular in our Western world, the same
thing will develop here. People will not
533
'I'he ~w Psychology
take up the most advanced work, before
becoming acquainted with the simpler
forms of knowledge. Attainment implies
obligation, if you are somewhere up the
ladder of culture, if you have entered the
school of understanding, if you have seen
the light of spiritual Truth, you are sup-
posed by that very fact to know more
than the one who has not yet arrived.
Your nervous system will automatically
organize itself on a higher plane, and
because of this you must live closer to
the law of your being or experience suf-
fering more quickly; there are no excep-
tions to the law.
The resurrection from the dead is not
a process of getting corpses out of the
grave, it is the elevation of mentalities
from the plane of the material to th:;
plane of the spiritual, it is crossing the
river Jordan and entering the "Promised
534
utCetaphysics
Land." It is not until one becomes ac-
quainted with the laws governing in the
spiritual world that he really begins to
"live," consequently those who are still
functioning in the material world are
"dead," they have not yet been resur-
rected. "Eyes have they but they see
not, ears have they but they hear not."
Those who have been raised to the
spiritual plane find that there are many
practices which they must drop. In most
cases these practices leave the individual
without difficulty, they drop away of
their own accord, but when the indi-
vidual persists in functioning in the old
world, he usually finds that: "A house
divided against itself cannot stand,"
and frequently must suffer severely be-
fore he learns that he cannot violate
spiritual laws with impunity.
535
Mind in itself is believed to be a subtle
form of static energy, from which arises
the activities called "thought," which is
the dynamic phase of mind. Mind is
static energy, thought is dynamic en-
ergy-the two phases of the same thing.
-Walker.
Philosophy
Part 'Iwenty-one
PHILOSOPHY
P
HYSICAL Science has resolved
~atter into mol~cul~s, molecules
mto atoms, atoms mto energy,
and it has remained for Mr. J. A. Flem-
ing, in an address before the Royal In-
stitution, to resolve this energy into
mind. He says: "In its ultimate es-
sence, energy may be incomprehensible
by us except as an exhibition of the di-
rect operation of that which we call
Mind or Will."
We find, therefore, that science and
religion are not in conflict, but are in
perfect agreement. Mr. Leland makes
this quite plain, in an article on "World
Making." He says: "First, there is
wisdom that has planned, and so ad-
justed all the parts of the universe in
539
The ~w Psychology
such a perfect balance that there is no
friction. And as the universe is infinite,
the wisdom that has planned it must be
infinite, too.
"Secondly, there is a will that has
fixed and ordained the activities and
forces of the universe, and bound them
by laws inflexible and eternal. And
everywhere this Omnipotent Will has
established the limitations and directions
of the energies and processes, and has
fixed their everlasting stability and uni-
formity.
"And as the universe is Infinite this
Will must be Infinite.
"And thirdly, there is a power that
sustains and moves, a power that never
wearies, a power which controls all
forces; and, as the universe is Infinite,
the Power must be Infinite, too. What
shall we name this Infinite trinity, Wis-
540
Philosophy
dom, Will and Power? Science knows
no simpler name for it than God. This
name is all embracing."
We can conceive something of its
meaning, though we cannot comprehend
its significance. And this Being is the
indwelling and ultimate. He is immi-
nent in matter as in spirit; and to Him
all Law, Life, Force, must be referred.
He is the sustaining, ~nergizing, all-per-
vading Spirit of the universe.
Every living thing must be sustained
by this Omnipotent Intelligence, and we
find the difference in individual lives to
be largely measured by the degree of
this intelligence which they manifest. · It
is a greater intelligence that places the
animal in a higher scale of being than
the plant, the man higher than the ani-
mal; and we find this increased in-
telligence is again indicated by the power
541
The ~w Psychology
of the individual to control modes of
action and thus to consciously adjust
himself to his environment. It is this
/"'
adjustment that occupies the attention
of the greatest minds and this adjust-
ment consists in nothing else than the
recognition of an existing order in the
Universal Mind, for it is well known
that this mind will obey us precise!;·~~ j
proportion as we first obey it. . /
As we increase in experience and de-
velopment, there is a corresponding in-
crease in the exercise of the intellect, in
the range and power of feeling, in the
ability to choose, in the power to will, in
all executive action, in all self-conscious-
ness. That would mean that self-con-
sciousness is increasing, expanding,
growing, developing, and enlarging; it
increases and develops because it is a
spiritual activity; we multiply our pos-
542
Philosophy
session of spiritual things m proportion
to our use of them. All material things
are consumed in the using. There is a
diametrically opposite law governing the
use of the spiritual and the material.
Life is that quality or principle of the
Universal energy which manifests in
so-called organic objects as growth and
voluntary activity, and which is usually
co-existent in some degree, with some
manifestation of that same Universal
Energy as the quality or principle
termed intelligence. There is only one
Supreme Principle, evading all compre-
hension of its essential nature. It is the
Absolute. Man can think only in terms
of the relative. Therefore, he sometimes
defines it as the Universal Intelligence,
the Universal Substance, as Ether, Life,
Mind, Spirit, Energy, Truth, Love, etc.
His particular definition at any moment
543
'Ihe ~w Psychology
is governed by the particular relationship
of the phenomena of Being in which he
thinks of this Principle at that moment.
Mind is present in the lowest forms of
life, in the protoplasm, or cell. The pro-
toplasm, o~ cell, perceives its environ-
ment, initiates motion and chooses its
fo.od. All these are evidences of mind.
As an organism develops and becomes
more complex, the cells begin to special-
ize, some doing one thing and some an-
other, but all of them showing intelli-
gence. By association their mind powers
mcrease.
Whereas in the beginning each func-
tion of life and each action is the result
of conscious thought, the habitual ac-
tions become automatic or subconscious,
in order that the self-conscious mind may
attend to other things. The new actions
will, however, in their turn, become ha-
544
'Phz'losophy
bitual, then automatic, then subconscious
in order that the mind again may be
freed from this detail and advance to
still other activities.
Until very recently, it was said that
matter, in its ultimate nature was eter-
nal, though all the forms thereof change.
We were told that a building destroyed
by fire with nothing but a few ashes left
had gone up in smoke and gas, and that
only the form of the manifestation had
changed; that the essential substances
were still in existence in different chem-
ical formations.
We were told that all forms of matter
exist in the form of molecules, that these
molecules are resolvable into certain
smaller elements called atoms. Until re-
cently the atom was supposed to be the
ultimate particle of matter, so until re-
cently scientists supposed that matter
545
'Ihe ~w Psychology
could be resolved into atoms and that
was final.
But with the discovery of radium, it
was found that the atom is made up of
a large number of smaller particles
called electrons or ions, and these elec-
trons vary according to the kind of
atoni that is under consideration. A
hydrogen atom contains a different num-
ber of electrons than an oxygen atom,
and so on.
The atoms within the molecule are
separated from each other by very great
distances as compared with their diam-
eter, the electrons in turn are separated
from each other by distances as com-
pared to the diameter, as are the planets
in the solar system. When we remember
that the molecule whic~ is the larger of
the group is so small that it cannot be
discovered by the most powerful micro-
546
Philosophy
scope, so small that you could place
many millions of them into an ordinary
thimble, you can conceive how infinitesi-
mal is the ultimate particle of matter
called the electron or ion.
It has been discovered that the atoms
of radium are constantly radiating their
ions into space, producing what is called
radio activity, that these particles are
apparently lost, they simply vanish.
Finally it has been discovered that
other forms of matter besides radium are
throwing off their ions into space, and
that these seem to be absolutely lost in
_ the process, thus the atoms of matter are
constantly wasting away, so that the mod-
ern physicist no longer claims that mat-
ter is indestructible; it is in a constant
state of flux, it is forever changing in
form.
What then is the director which con-
547
'The ~w 'Psychology
trols the action of the ion, which indi-
cates the form which it is to take? Mind
is the director, and this direction is the
process called creation.
It will therefore readily be seen that
the basis upon which matter rests is mind
or spirit. The spirit of a thing is, there-
fore, the thing itself, it is the spirit of a
thing which attracts to itself the neces-
sary electrons for its develo2ment from
the ether, and which are gradually as-
sembled by the law of growth ; it is evi-
dent therefore, that the saying of St.
Paul is true: "The things which are
seen are temporal, but the things which
are not seen are eternal."
Many years ago, John Bovee Dods
wrote:
"We have mounted from lead up to
electricity, and though as we rose, we
found each successive substance more
548
Philosophy
easily moved than the one below it, still
we have not as yet found a single ma-
terial that possesses inherent motion as
its attribute. Lead, rock, earth, and
water are moved by impulse. Air is
moved by rarefaction, and electricity is
moved by the positive and negative
forces. True we have mounted up, as
before remarked, to electricity, but even
this cannot move, unless it is thrown out
of balance in relation to quantity as to
its positive and negative forces.
"Electricity is a fluid most inconceiv-
ably subtle, rarefied and fine. It is com-
puted to require four million particles
of our air to make a speck as large as
the smallest visible grain of sand, and
yet electricity is more than seven hun-
dred thousand times finer than air! It
is almost unparticled matter, and is not
549
'Ihe ~w Psychology
only invisible, but so far as we can
judge, it is imponderable.
"It cannot be seen-it cannot be
weighed! A thousand empty Leyden
jars, capable of containing a gallon each,
may be placed upon the nicest scale, and
most accurately weighed. Then let these
be filled with electricity, and, so far as
human sagacity can determine they will
weigh no more. Hence to our percep-
tion a thousand gallons weigh nothing.
"As electricity, in regard to motion
stands upon the poise, being completely
balanced by the positive and negative
forces that equalize each other, so it is
easily perceived, that if we mount one
step higher, we must come to that sub-
stance whose nature is to move, and the
result of that motion is thought and
power. It is MIND. Hence it will be
550
Philosophy
distinctly perceived, in view of the argu-
ment now offered, that we cannot, as
philosophers, stop short of motion in the
highest and most sublime substance in
being. This conclusion, as the result of
argument, is absolutely and positively ir-
resistible, and challenges refutation.
"When we mount up in our contem-
plations through the various grades of
matter, and see it continually brighten-
ing-as we press onward in our delight-
ful career of rapture, until we arrive at
that sublimated substance which can
neither be seen nor weighed; which
moves with a velocity of twelve million
miles per minute, and can travel around
this globe in the eighth part of a second,
-we are struck with astonishment and
awe I But as this is not the last link
in the immeasurable chain, we are
forced to proceed onward till we arrive
551
'The :At!..,w 'Psychology
at the finest, most sublime, and brilliant
substance in being-a substance that
possesses the attributes of inherent or
self-motion and living power, and from
which all other motion and power
throughout the immeasurable universe
are derived.. This is the Infinite Mind,
and possesses embodied form. It is a
living being. This Infinite Mind comes
in contact with electricity~ gives to it
motion, arms it with power, and through
this mighty unseen agent, moves the uni-
verse, and carries on all the multifarious
operations of nature.
"Hence, there is not a motion that
transpires amidst the immensity of His
works, from rolling globes to the falling
leaf, but what originates in the Eternal
Mind, and by Him 1s performed,
through electricity as His agent. Mind
is, therefore, the absolute perfection of
552
Philosophy
all substances in being; and as it pos-
sesses self-motion as its grand attribute,
so it is, in this respect, exactly the re-
verse of all other substances, which are,
of themselves, motionless. Mind, or
spirit, is above all, and absolutely dis-
poses and controls all. Hence, Mind is
imponderable-invisible, and eternal."
SILENCE
In silence was the Universe conceived,
In silence doth the heart of man seek out
That other heart to rest on; Nature's soul
Yearns ceaselessly to give its speechless calm
Unto her restless children as they roam
Far from that central place which is their
home.
Wouldst know thy Mother Nature face to face?
Wouldst hear her silent heartbeats? Close thine
ears
And still thy senses; wouldst thou feel her arms
Enfold thy being? Thou must give thyself
In uttermost abandon to her will
That she may teach thee the one truth~be
still!
553
'The ~w Psychology
Be still-and from the Silence shall arise
A mem'ry of forgotten mysteries.
A healing peace descending on thy soul
Shall bear it up· to regions beyond words
Where thou shalt learn the secrets of the
earth,
Of wind and flame and how the stars have
birth.
Then shalt thou know thy heritage of joy;
Borne on the ,Pinions of the Bird of Life,
Tuned to the rhythm of revolving spheres,
Feeling with all that breathes, with all that
strives
For union with its prototype above,
The silent comforter whose name is-Love.
-Frances Poile.
554
Science
Part Twenty-two
SCIENCE
S
CIENCE is not idealistic, nor
spiritualistic, nor materialistic,
but ,simply natural; she seeks to
learn everywhere facts and their logical
corollaries, without doing homage in ad-
vance to a system in this or in that direc-
tion. "Science," says Grove, "should
have neither desires nor prejudices; truth
should be her sole aim."
Huxley says, "Modern science has
made its way ·into the works of our best
poets, and even the man of letters is
unconsciously impregnated with her
spirit, and indebted for his best products
to her methods. I believe that the great-
est intellectual revolution mankind has
yet seen is now slowly taking place by
her agency. She is teaching the world
557
The ~w Psychology
that the ultimate course of appeal is
observation and experiment, and not au-
thority; she is teaching it to estimate the
value of evidence; she is creating a firm
and living faith in the existence of im-
mutable moral and physical laws, per-
fect obedience to which is the highest
possible aim of an intelligent being."
Redi did not trouble himself much
with speculative considerations, but at-
tacked particular cases of what was sup-
posed to be "spontaneous generation"
experimentally. "Here are dead ani-
mals, or pieces of meat," he says; "I ex-
pose them to the air in hot weather, and
in a few days they swarm with maggots.
You tell me these are generated in the
dead flesh; but if I put similar bodies,
while quite fresh, in a jar, and tie some
fine gauze over the top of the jar, not a
maggot makes its appearance, while the
558
Sdence
dead substances, nevertheless, putrefy in
the same way as before. It is obvious,
therefore, that the maggots are not gen-
erated by the corruption of the meat;
and that the cause of their formation
must be a something which is kept away
by gauze. But gauze will not keep away
aeriform bodies or fluids. This some-
thing must, therefore, exist in the form
of solid particles too big to get through
the gauze. Nor is one long left in doubt
what these solid particles are; for the
blow-flies, attracted by the odor of the
meat, swarm round the vessel, and, urged
by powerful but in each case mislead-
ing instinct, lay eggs out of which the
maggots are immediately hatched upon
the gauze. The conclusion, therefore,--is
unavoidable; the maggots are not gen-
erated by the meat, but the eggs which
559
'The :J{j__,w Psychology
give rise to them are brought through
the air by the flies."
These experiments seem almost child-
ishly simple, and one wonders how it
was that no one ever thought of them
before. Simple as they are, however,
they are worthy of the most careful
study, for every piece of experimental
work done, in regard to this subject, has
been shaped upon the model furnished
by the Italian philosopher. As the re-
sults of his experiments were the same,
however varied the nature of the ma-
terials he used, it is not wonderful that
there arises in Redi's mind a presumption
that, in all such cases of the seeming
production of life from dead matter, the
real explanation was the introduction of
living germs from without into that dead
matter. And thus the hypothesis that
living matter always arises by the agency
56o
Science
of pre-existing living matter took defi-
nite shape; and had, henceforward, a
right to be considered and a claim to
be refuted, in ea~h particular case, be-
fore the production of living matter in
any other way could be admitted by care- .
ful reasoners.
That which endures is not one or an-
other association of living forms, but the
process of which the cosmos is the prod-
uct, and of which these are among the
transitory expressions. And in the liv-
ing world, one of the most characteris-
tic features of this cosmic process is the
struggle for existence, the competition of
each with all, the result of which is the
selection, that is to say, the survival of
those forms which, on the whole, are best
adapted to the conditions which at any
period obtain; and which are therefore,
in that respect, and only in that respect,
561
'The ~w 'Psychology
the fittest. The acme reached by the cos-
mic process in the vegetation of the
downs is seen in the turf, with its weed
and gorse. Under the conditions, they
have come out of the struggle victorious;
and, by surviving, have proved that they
are the fittest to survive.
In the life of the mind, there must
eventually be some features of absolute
unity, despite the diversity that may ex-
ist in its organization. The laws of
thinking are no doubt the same through-
out the universe.
Just as it is possible to show in the
physical development of the organ of
thought an uninterrupted scale of grad-
ual development from the lowest animal
to the highest human being, so a similar
ascent of psychical and mental properties
in every rising development may be
found in him. Neither morphology, nor
562
Science
chemistry, nor macroscopy, nor micro-
scopy is capable of discovering an essen-
tial difference between human and ani-
mal brains; great though the differences
may be, they are after all but differences
of degree. This accounts for the abso-
lute failure that has attended all the at-
tempts made by some scientists, even
down to our own time, to discover any
such characteristic or essential differ-
ences, and on the strength of these to
assign to man a special place and classi-
fication in natural history.
Prof. William McDougall, the dis-
tinguished professor of psychology at
Harvard, in a session of the British
Association for the Advancement of
Science at Toronto, made this very sig-
nificant announcement.
"Thirty to forty years ago, when I
began to study science, considerable
563
T ~e ~w Psychology
moral courage would have been required
to insist upon the purposive nature of
man. For at that time the great wave
of scientific materialism was still but
little past its climax. It was the day of
Spencer and Huxley, of Clifford and
Tyndal, of Lange and W eismann ; of
Verworm and Bain. The world and all
the living things in it were presented to
us with so much prestige and confidence,
as one vast system of mechanistic deter-
mination that one seemed to be placed
before two acutely opposed alternatives.
"On the one hand, science and uni-
versal mechanism ; on the other hand,
humanism, religion, mysticism and su-
perstition.
"But the physical universe of eternal
hard atoms and universal elastic ether,
the realm of pure mechanics, has be-
come a welter of entities and activities
564
Science
which change in development and dis-
appear like the figures of the kaleido-
scope. The atoms are gone; matter has
resolved itself into energy; and what
energy is no man can tell, beyond say-
ing it is the possibility of change, of
further evolution.
"In psychology the mechanistic confi-
dence of the nineteenth century is fad-
~
ing away, as the complexity of the living
organism is more fully realized, as its
powers of compensation, self-regulation,
reproduction and repair are more fully
explored.
"In general biology the mechanistic
neo-Darwinism is bankrupt before the
problems of evolution, the origin of vari-
ations and mutations, the predominance
of mind in the later stages of the evolu-
tionary process, the indications of pur-
posive striving at even the lowest levels,
565
'The ~w Psychology
the combination of marvelous persistency
of type with indefinite plasticity which
pervades the realm of life and which
finds its only analog in the steadfast
purposive adaptive striving of a resolute
personality."
Sir Oliver Lodge says, among scientific
men the ether has only been studied by
physicists, and not by all of them. It
has been ignored by chemists, and has
probably never entered the thought of
physiologists, or biologists of any kind,
at all. And yet if it is a reality in the
universe it may have chemical and bio-
logical functions to perform, as well as
its well-known functions in the science
of physics. We know it familiarly in the
phenomena of light, of electricity, of
magnetism. We are beginning to asso-
ciate it also, rather definitely, with elas-
ticity, cohesion and gravitation. And
566
Science
we are gradually learning that the
greater part of the energy in the uni-
verse, and certainly all potential energy,
belongs to it, and not to matter at all.
Atomic matter is one thing; the ether is
another. They may be related. The
link between them is electricity. But if
it is possible ever to unify them, and to
regard them as different manifestations
of one thing, there is no doubt which is
the more fundamental of the two. The
ether is the fundamental thing. Matter
is a derived and secondary thing. And
the electric charges which constitute
matter are probably composed of modifi-
cations of the ether.
And it is because they lack the clue
that biologists in general feel so hostile
and are conscious of such repugnancct
to the facts themselves. To the honor of
Professor Richet, in spite of his repug-
567
'Ihe ~w 'Psychology
nance, he is ready to accept the facts.
But it seems to me that he raises un-
necessary difficulties about them by his
insistence on i:natter alone. He will
never understand them in terms of "mat-
ter" alone. Strictly speaking, we cannot
understand anything fully and com-
pletely in terms of matter alone. By
concentrating on matter we eliminate
. from our thoughts the greater part of
the universe. The universe contains
many things besides matter. It contains
magnetism and electricity ·and light and
ether; it also contains life and thought
and mind and consciousness and memory
and personality and character. None of
these things are material, and yet,
strangely enough, some of them have
come into association with matter
through the curious biological process of
incarnation.
568
Science
Albert Edward Wiggam says, "And
now, today, in the electron of the atom
and in the germ cell of living proto-
plasm, we have at last come upon God
in His own workshop. The mechanist
has looked about this workshop and
exclaimed, 'It is all machinery.' The
spiritualist has said, 'Behind it is the
breath of God.' One has found a uni-
verse that works, the other a universe
that is significant. One has found the
tools; the other the workman. But
whether he be mechanist or vitalist, ma-
terialist or spiritualist, both are agreed
that co-operation with natural law-the
will of God-is the only righteousness.
This alone is organic morality. This
alone is progress."
I do not know what philosophy is true.
I only know that unfettered philosophic
thought is the only thing that can lead
569
'Ihe :J{!_,w Psychology
us to the things that are true. And I
am pleading for the importance and in-
fluence of truth, and that it may be in
our time bravely lifted up for all men.
However, if I am to trust my ex-
tremely diffident interpretation of Prof.
John Dewey, science and the critical
speculation that has come into the world
with it have given two great new trends
to philosophy, all of which, I think,
are of great importance to the statecraft.
First, philosophy has changed as to its
theory of knowledge-the very nature of
the knowing processes of the mind; biol-
ogy has made this contribution. From
the old notion that knowledge was built
up out of independent sensations, that is,
that the senses were the gateways to
knowledge, biology has contributed the
new conception that knowledge is be-
havior, the reaction, the "hitting back"
570
Science
of a living organism upon its environ-
ment. Knowledge thus becomes the ac-
tive, operative experience of an organ-
ism carrying out the rich possibilities of
the inherent structure. Not to go into
technical jargon, all the old psychology
that underlaid both the rationalism of
the rationalist and the empiricism of the
empiricist is thus completely exploded
so that we can hardly realize what has
become of it.
Second, this change as to the nature
of knowledge has brought enormous
changes in our conceptions as to the na-
ture of truth, as to what truth is and
what is true. We find that truth and
the way we gain knowledge are quite
bound together. The old notion of a
realm of unchangeable truth out in the
sky somewhere, has become transformed
into a conception of truth as a working,
571
'The :lX!_,w Psychology
find that Science and Religion are not
practical, verifiable experience. Thus
the old battle between the real and ideal,
subject and object, experience and rea-
son, noumenon and phenomenon, have
I
become strangely obsolete because they
are seen to have no practical conse-
quence.
For society is suffering primarily not
from unbalanced budgets and disrupted
ententes but from wrong mental proc-
esses. M any of these processes have be-
come institutions; for institutions, as
Martin says, are simply stereotyped so-
cial habits. Consequently, the way men
think is the thing that makes right or
wrong, wise or foolish institutfons. And
there are great wrong mental processes-
some of them age-old institutions-which
prevent the inner life from expanding to
meet the new needs, and prevent them
572
Science
from breathing the spacious airs of a
new spiritual morning with which
science is ready to light the world.
These mental habits are not called evils
because they lie so far behind our ob-
vious evils that they are not discerned.
They do not make good newspaper head-
lines. Juries and investigating com-
mittees never list them as the "causes"
of social breakdown because the juries
and committees are themselves caught
up in the same network of habit. But
until they are observed and corrected,
society can never become intelligent.
And until society becomes intelligent it
can never be happy or free.
In "An Unorthodox Conception of
Being" William Ellsworth Hermance
says: "We are forced to view matter as
of two planes: the 'material and the spir-
itual. The single atom is not material,
573
'Ihe ~w Psychology
it is spiritual; that is, it is simply a
definite amount of Power, and the Power
alone would be absolutely immaterial."
Premising that the atoms are con-
scious is totally different from stating
that the material is conscious. The in-
organic atoms (the atoms unorganized)
are not conscious on the material plane.
One of the errors of Materialism is
in assuming that matter under certain
forms may be conscious, as in the brain.
They assume that as we are conscious,
it must be some material portion of the
person that is conscious. There is ab-
solutely no proof that consciousness is
created either as a result of motion or
form, which is the Monistic idea; or
that it is a physical product due to a
peculiar combination of matter, which
is the idea of some Materialists.
Is it illogical or unreasonable to say
574
Science
the motion must primarily be carried
back to the molecule and the atom? If
it is so carried, then the atom or the in-
dividual is where the consciousness lies.
It takes more to constitute what we
mean by an army than even all the per-
sons which compose the army. The per-
sonal constituents of a mob might be
exactly the same as those of the army.
The difference is that one is organized
and the other is not.
My hypothesis is that the Universal
Power is conscious and intelligent; that
each part is conscious and intelligent,
but as parts cannot each be equal to the
whole, so no atom or ego is equal in
intelligence to the whole. On the other
hand, I believe the whole is no greater
than all of its parts collectively and or-
ganically, and each part is as essential
575
'The J\(f_,w Psychology
to the whole, proportionately, as the
whole is to the part.
I do not conceive of any density what-
ever of the atoms. Density is an attri-
bute of the material and one atom is not
material, it is spirit, and has no material
attributes. This is a typical point of
difference between my conception and
the materialistic conception. If the atom
of hydrogen does not penetrate the
parchment as readily as the atom of oxy-
gen does, why? Unless the oxygen atom
is smaller, why does it penetrate better?
There is, therefore, in the living or-
ganism something besides mere physical
forces, or the chemistry of dead nature,
something that ceases to be when life
ceases. There is a vital condition, · in
which molecules have powers that lead
. to resulting seed-bearing structures
widely different from those of inor'ganic
576
Science
nature, and standing on altogether a
higher level. There is a power of evolu-
tion, an architectural power, that not
only exalts chemical results, but evolves
a diversity of parts and structures and a
heritage of ancestral qualities, of which
the laws of material nature give no ex-
planation.
August Comte says that "The positive
spirit consists in keeping oneself equally
distant from two dangers, mysticism and
empiricism." By mysticism he under-
stands 'the recourse to nonverifiable ex-
planations and to transcendent hypoth-
eses. Men's imagination finds pleasure
in these things, but we must be able to
bring all "real" knowledge back to a
general or particular fact. Positive sci-
ence therefore abstains from searching
after substances, ends, and even causes.
577
'The ~w Psychology
It only bears upon phenomena and their
relations.
When, by means of observation or de-
duction, he has arrived at a knowledge
of their laws· he remains satisfied. For
the knowledge of these laws allows him
in certain cases to intervene in the phe-
nomena, and to substitute to the natural
order an artificial order better suited to
his requirements. It is thus that mechan-
ical, astronomical, physical, chemical
and even biological phenomena are ob-
jects of relative and positive science for
him today.
But, as soon as the question is one of
facts which originate in the human con-
science, or which are connected with so-
cial life and with history, an opposite
tendency becomes predominant. Instead
of solely seeking for the laws of phe-
nomena, our mind desires to explain
578
Science
them. It wants to find the essence and
the cause.
The confused disturbing movements
which fill the world with trouble and
agitation, and which, unless rational har-
mony be at last established, threaten its
destruction are not due merely to politi-
cal causes. They proceed from moral
disorder. And this in turn proceeds
from intellectual disorder, that is to say,
from a lack of principles common to all
minds, and from the absence of uni-
versally admitted conceptions and be-
liefs. For in order that a human society
may subsist, a certain harmony of senti-
ment or even common interests among
its members will not suffice. Above all
things, intellectual concord which finds
expression in a- body of common beliefs
is necessary.
The number of men with sufficient
579
'The :N:!_,w Psychology
leisure and enough culture to examine
these conclusions and to go into their
proofs will always be small. The atti-
tude of the others must be one of sub-
mission and respect. But, differing on
this point from the religious dogmas
which humanity has known until now,
the new faith will be "demonstrated."
It will contain nothing which has not
been establishe4 and controlled by -sci-
entific methods, nothing which goes be-
yond the domain of the relative, noth-
ing which at any moment cannot be
proved to a mind capable of following
the demonstration.
This form of "faith" already exists in
the case of a great number of scientific
truths. Thus all men today believe in
the theory of the solar system which we
owe to Copernicus, to Galileo and to
Newton. Yet how many are in a posi-
580
Science
tion to understand the demonstrations
upon which this theory rests? They
know, however, that what here is a mat-
ter of faith to them, is a matter of sci-
ence to others, and would be so equally
for themselves had they gone through
the necessary studies.
The faith which is born of knowledge
finds its object in an eternal order, bring-
ing forth ceaseless change, through end-
less time, in endless space; the manifes-
tation of the cosmic energy alternating
between phases of potentiality and
phases of explication.
The Deity and the Universe are but
one substance, at the same time both
spirit and matter, thought and extension,
which are the only known attributes of
the Deity.
And if, as there is not the least rea-
son to doubt, more highly organized liv-
581
'The ~w Psychology
ing begins to exist in remote worlds,
these would yet, in their superior de-
velopment as rational beings, undoubt-
edly resemble the earth-man in regard
to intellect, since in the whole universe
only one intelligence can be imagined
which is the same everywhere-an intel-
ligence which makes all physical laws
appear as intellectual laws.
Alexander Thomas Ormond, professor
of ·philosophy, Princeton University,
says:
"There is a kind of popular knowl-
edge that is not science, and this has its
own value as the plain man's case goes to
show, but this species soon reaches its
limit, and, as a whole, it is found to be
unreliable except for the roughest kind
of approximation. There is, then, a
threatened breakdown of the whole busi-
ness of experience which is only averted
582
Science
by the rise of science and its exact meth-
ods. Whatever may have been true of
the ancients, it is certainly the case that
modern life would have been impossible
without the aid of science. This help
has not been merely practical. Modern
science has given us a new heaven and a
new earth. It has enlarged our concep-
tions, revolutionized our methods and
immeasurably extended the scope of our
ideas of reality. It is not too much to
say that the world in which we moderns
live, if it had been dreamed by an an-
cient, would have been regarded as too
extravagant for even the kind of cre-
dence that was then attached to dreams.
"The truth is, when we begin to ap-
prehend the vast function modern sci-
ence has performed in the drama of mod-
ern experience the danger is, not that
science will not obtain due recognition,
583
'The J\{j_,w 'Psychology
but that it will claim a monopoly. This
tendency can be redressed only by com-
bining with a generous recognition of
the place which science holds in the
philosophical synthesis, an insight into
the fact that there is another point of
view from which consciousness becomes
primate and leads to the concepts and
methods of another discipline. The phil-
osophical synthesis begins with science
but it reaches its conclusion in meta-
physics.
"Suppose that we have grounds for
asserting the existence of an absolute in
the world, have we any resources in our
experience that will enable us to ren-
der this absolute in any .sense intelligible?
"It will be clear that the reality of
the idea of God will be measured by its
ability to harmonize with, and in a true
sense to unify, all the other real inter-
584
Scz"ence
ests and ideals of life. We are in a
bad predicament when our culture
points east, our science north, and our
religion south. To one the elements of
whose experience are in such chaos as
this, the idea of God cannot, in the na-
ture of the case, have much significance.
But let us suppose that our culture and
our science are at one in the line of
truth and that our practical ideals all
center in the line of good. If, then, our
idea of God be that of a being in whose
experience the true and the good are
unified so that there can be no conflict,
our religion then becomes the principle
which unifies all the elements of our
life and the idea of God becomes the
central force in our experience. Now
it is clear that the normal function of
such an idea as that of God is one of
unification. God stands as the ideally
585
'The :J./!_,w Psychology
complete realization of all we may
aspire to. He is simply the soul writ,
not in large, but in transcendent terms,
and the idea of Hirn is one that ideally
comprehends and completes all the ele-
ments of our experience. Naturally,
then, the idea of God ought to bear to
our experience and all its elements the
relation of a unifying principle. The
reality of the idea of God depends, there-
fore, on the degree to which it vitally
relates itself to our experience. Were
it a mere abstraction without any close
connection with the life of man it could
lay little claim to reality. But that has
the highest claim to reality which not
only touches experience vitally at every
point but is also necessary to it as its
ideal and its unifying principle."
We find, therefore, in the statements
of many of the greatest living scientists
586
Science
that pure science and pure religion are
in absolute harmony, and Prof. J. S.
Haldane, the eminent British scientist,
goes on to say: "It is only when science
is dogmatic that it assumes an attitude
which seems to deny the existence of
spiritual reality. But, there is very little
of this dogmatism in the writings of the
great men of science though very much
in the desiccated science of text books
and popular expositions."
THE THINKER
Back of the beating hammer,
By which the steel is wrought,
Back of the workshop's clamor,
The seeker may find the Thought;
The thought that is ever master
Of iron and steam and steel,
That rises above disaster
And tramples it under heel!
-Berton Braley.
'Tis not in Time but in man's thought
That aught of good or ill is wrought;
His word is law, his thought is fate,
Time is his servant and must wait.
To bring whate'er he may decree,
Each mortal holds "The Master-Key,"
O'er Time and Fate and Destiny.
-Henry Victor Morgan.
