{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__huntley___harmonics_of_evolution.pdf","mytitle":"Harmonics Of Evolution","mylang":"de"}
Harmonics of Evolution
The Struggle for Happiness, and Individual
Completion through the Principle
of Polarity or Affinity.
Volume I
HARMONIC SERIES
By
FLORENCE HUNTLEY
Revised by
J. E. RICHARDSON
Author of
Vol. n, HI, IV, V,
HARMONIC SERIES
THE GREAT SCHOOL
OF NATURAL SCIENCE
Copyright 1928, by
J. E. RICHARDSON
Publi»hed Septrmbcr, 1928
ADDRESSED TO
THE PROGRESSIVE INTELLIGENCE OF THE AGE
Harmonics of Evolution
CHAPTER PACE
Evolution I 9
Ultimates II 1
1
Genesis of Physical Life Ill 15
The Four Kingdoms IV 35
Polarity V 47
Evolution of Intelligence VI 65
Nature's Purpose VII 83
Man VIII 91
Man and Mammal IX 103
Man and Woman X 109
Will and Desire XI 125
Reason and Intuition XII 135
Hunter and Searcher XIII 151
Intellectual Development XIV 161
Aesthetics and Ethics XV 173
Happiness XVI 179
Struggle for Happiness XVII 187
Self-Completion XVIII 197
Individual Completion XIX 209
AflFection XX 21
5
Love XXI 221
Sex Relation XXII 227
Monogamy and Polygamy XXIII 237
Natural Marriage XXIV 247
Legal Marriage XXV 253
Divorce XXVI 273
Mathematics of Marriage XXVII 287
Harmonics of Marriage XXVIII 313
Ethics of Marriage XXIX 335
Companionship XXX 345
True Marriage XXXI 357
Perfect Marriage XXXII 363
Altruism XXXIII 369
Harmonics of Evolution
^Fools Deride, Philosophers Investigate'
CHAPTER I
EVOLUTION
1. There is a Principle in Nature which
impels every Entity to seek vibratory corre-
spondence w^ith another like Entity of oppo-
site Polarity.
2. There is a Purpose of Nature, concern-
ing each Individual Intelligence, Ego, Soul
or Essential Entity, which is The Comple-
tion of the Individual, and involves Individ-
ual Completion and Happiness.
3. There is a primary Purpose of each
Individual Intelligence, Ego, Soul or Essen-
tial Entity, which is Self-Completion, and
involves the Struggle for Happiness.
CHAPTER II
ULTIMATES
No effort will be made to explain Ulti-
mates in Nature. Natural Science does not
pretend to explain when or how or why Uni-
versal Intelligence set in motion the evolu-
tionary scheme. It does not claim to have
discovered how or why Universal Intelli-
gence selected this particular scheme for the
evolution of man. It does not, in short, pro-
fess either to know or to explain the ultimates
of matter, or motion, or life, or Intelligence,
or Love.
Natural Science is forced to deal with Na-
ture as it is. It is also forced to operate with
human Intelligence in every department of
science. Human Intelligence, dealing with
Universal problems, is forced, at least in its
earlier phases, to dismiss the ultimate issues
of this stupendous scheme of Nature.
Natural Science finds matter, motion, life,
intelligence and love as common phenomena
11
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
upon this physical plane. Natural Science
finds the same phenomena, common also,
upon the spiritual planes. It is therefore
driven to the general deduction that matter,
motion, life, intelligence and love are the cor-
related properties, elements, principles and
activities of both worlds, and are Universal.
It accepts matter as a Universal property of
Nature, and motion as a Universal mode. It
accepts life as a Universal element and In-
telligence as a Universal principle. It ac-
cepts love as a Universal activity of an Indi-
vidual Intelligence.
Further than this Natural Science has not
penetrated. It simply finds and accepts these
two planes of existence which have corre-
lated properties, modes, elements, principles
and activities. It accepts them as Ultimates
as far as the Individual Intelligence is con-
cerned. It holds that these Ultimates are un-
varying in principle, indestructible in essense,
yet infinitely varied in manifestation.
Natural Science deals with man as with
any other product of Nature. It studies him
upon each plane and explains him in his re-
lation to them. It accepts man as the highest
It
ULTIMATES
product of this physical plane. It also dis-
covers that he is the highest manifestation
upon the spiritual planes. As far as Natural
Science goes, man, in form. Intelligence, ca-
pacity, individual activity and attainment, is
the highest product of Nature.
No attempt is made to explain why the
"Great Intelligence" sets just the patterns
that exist in both v^orlds. All living organ-
isms are adaptations; all living entities have,
to a certain degree, shaped themselves and
been shaped to the uses of the Intelligence
which animates them. This, however, does
not explain why one Intelligent Entity shapes
its body or is shaped to live in a tree, while
another shapes itself or is shaped to burrow
in the ground.
Natural Science does not undertake to ex-
plain why the Principle of Polarity governs
the Universal Life Elements. It accepts
both the principle and the elements as it
does matter and Intelligence, as Ultimates
in Natural Science. It does not attempt to
explain why evolution is conducted through
the sex principle of positive and receptive
energy. It merely demonstrates that the af-
13
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
finities and unions of entities thus polarized
refine matter, increase its vibratory action,
generate life and develop Individual Intelli-
gence.
It does not pretend to explain how or why
Nature improves its products through vibra-
tory correspondences. It merely discovers that
the nearer two entities of opposite polarity
approach a perfect correspondence in vibra-
tory action, the finer are the effects upon
them.
These deductions are not presented as ex-
planations of the first cause of either matter,
motion, life or Intelligence. They may sim-
plify to the mind those principles and proc-
esses which are involved in the generation of
physical life, the completion of the physical
body, and the rise of Individual Intelligence.
Natural Science does not attempt to ac-
count for these elements in Nature.
It accepts them as Universal and Ultimates
and works along that hypothesis. It classifies
these Life Elements along with the other
Universals—matter, motion, life, Intelligence
and Love.
14
CHAPTER III J
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
Physical science concerns itself with the
evolution of the physical man. It seeks only
to analyze the physical processes by which
the physical body is evolved. It seeks only to
trace the physical causes which give rise to
the phenomena of sensation and Intelligence.
It does not concern itself to discover any
purpose of Nature in these processes. It
does not seek to know why Nature has
finally produced this complicated physical,
intellectual and moral being—man.
It finds no other uses for man in Nature
than his operation of those functions by
which the physical body is sustained and the
species propagated and improved. The en-
tire range of physical science leaves no other
impression upon the mind than that Nature
exists for the sole purpose of physically im-
proving species.
15
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
This is the entire argument, and intent of
physical materialism.
Natural Science does something more than
to enumerate facts and analyze processes,
whether those facts and processes be physical
or spiritual. It is not content to investigate
material phenomena alone. It is not satisfied
simply to discover the physical and spiritual
processes involved in the building of the
body and the Individualizing of Intelligence.
It seeks to know the why as well as the how.
It aims to know why man exists in two
worlds as well as how he exists. Natural Sci-
ence, like physical science, is concerned with
the study of natural phenomena. Unlike
physical science, however, it is even more
deeply engrossed with the study of the ethical
phenomena attaching to Intelligent Life.
Physical science has one motive. Natural
Science has two. Where physical science
ceases its inquiries Natural Science goes for-
ward. Where physical science presents only
the past physical history of man upon this
planet. Natural Science forecasts his spir-
itual, intellectual and moral possibilities in
two correlated worlds of life.
u
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
Darwinism declares that the seemingly
purposeful in Nature is merely a series of
adaptations forced upon species in the strug-
gle for nutrition in the midst of a hostile en-
vironment.
It perceives nothing in evolution which in-
dicates anything that could be properly-
called an Intelligent purpose. It foreshadows
a result, but only a result affecting physical
life.
"Natural Selection," as laid down by Dar-
win, foreshadows only a "physically im-
proved species" brought about through the
"survival of the fittest" in that universal bat-
tle of the physically strong against the phys-
ically weak. This "physically improved
species" is held to be the "fittest" under Na-
ture's fundamental principle of hostility. A
physically improved species is, therefore, ac-
cepted as the noblest result possible under
Nature's working formula.
Darwinism finds in Nature no more subtle
principle than physical appetite. It finds no
higher struggle than a physical one. It con-
ceives no higher standards than physical im-
provements. It forecasts no higher evolution
17
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
than a physically strong and healthy race.
Darwinism considers the Individual solely
as an agent for the perpetuation of species.
He defines the Individual as a mere result of
past condition incident to the struggle for
nutrition. His destiny is completed in what
he may contribute to the physical improve-
ment of species.
This is what a man counts, and all that he
counts in Darwinian doctrine.
The value of Individual life under this
theory is summed up in the general assump-
tion that the sole intent of Nature is the im-
provement and preservation of species. Upon
this fallacious premise Darwinism argues,
first, that philanthropy which cares for the
weak and unfit children of men, is a violation
of natural law. Next, that the highest duty
of the Individual man is "the rearing of the
greatest number of improved progeny."
Thus, in a physically improved species we
find the ultimate object of Nature. In the
rearing of the largest number of improved
progeny, we discover Individual destiny—ac-
cording to Darwin.
Darwinian doctrine declares:
It
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
Life is a struggle for nutrition and physical
benefit.
The business of life is the struggle for nu-
trition and a struggle for reproduction.
The purpose of evolution is the physical
improvement and preservation of species.
The Individual exists for species.
There is nothing to live for except physical
posterity.
Intelligence is an emanation of food com-
binations.
Love is essentially lust.
Philanthropy is unnatural and therefore is
a disease.
The expectation of life after death is a su-
perstition.
Individual ambitions, hopes and aspira-
tions which transcend the requirements of
nutrition and reproduction, are delusions and
dreams based in superstitions or indigestion.
The limitations of physical science are re-
sponsible for the theory that evolution is
based in digestion and conducted by compe-
tition. Those limitations are responsible for
the idea that Intelligence is merely an emana-
tion of physical food, that Love is an efflor-
19
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
escence of lust and that Morality and Philan-
thropy are abnormal.
Inevitably this out-of-focus view levels
man to the needs and requirements of his
physical body. Inevitably such deductions
end in gross materialism. Scientific skepti-
cism does not contain the merest shadow of
a purpose in Nature that appeals to either an
Intelligent or a moral being.
The protest against Darwinism has never
been on account of the facts set forth. It was
the appalling theories which accompanied
those facts that shocked the Intelligence of
the world. Even average Intelligence has
not found it so difficult to accept the physical
body. It is the Intelligent Soul which refuses
to accept the explanation which Darwin
makes in connection with the physical facts.
The man of keen intuitions does not reject
Darwinism because it allies man, structurally,
to the ape. He rejects it because it reduces
man to the kingdom of the ape, makes him
the plaything of blind physical forces and
limits his destiny to improvement of species.
He rejects it because it levels Life, Intelli-
gence and Love to the gross needs of the body,
ao
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
and passes the death sentence upon the Soul.
"The Descent of Man"* postulates a physi-
cally improved species as the best result ob-
tainable under evolutionary law. "The As-
cent of Man"t declares that the great purpose
involved in evolution is the creation of a f am-
ily.
Drummond w^ho seeks to both support and
criticise Darwinism has a difficult task. He
is right when he declares that Love, and not
warfare, is the greatest thing in the world.
He is wrong, however, in the pathway he
selects for Love. He is wrong when he intro-
duces Love into the world "at the point of
the sword." He is mistaken when he formu-
lates a principle of sacrifice as the true prin-
ciple of Love. He is wrong when he declares
that the creation of a family is the purpose of
evolution.
The moralist, along with Darwin, accepts
Nature as a series of compulsions. He agrees
with his adversary, that physical competitions
accomplish all physical and intellectual re-
sults. He insists, however, that the enforced
*Danvin.
fDrummond.
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
physical sacrifices of woman accomplish the
moral results. He finds, as it were, a double
purpose in Nature: the manufacture of
mothers and the creation of an improved
family.
The place assigned to woman in Nature is
frequently explained by the moralist through
analogies. One of these interesting analogies
is presented when seeking to show the moral
intent of Nature, even in the lower kingdoms.
**For reproduction alone is a flower cre-
ated; when that process is over it returns to
the dust." This is what the moralist says
when considering the endless sacrifices of ma-
ternity and the universal office of the female
in Nature. A natural corollary to this would
read: For reproduction alone is a woman
created. When that office is discharged her
usefulness to society is ended. The moralist
does, in reality, say the same in eflfect when
he declares that a woman fulfills her destiny
"in paying the eternal debt of motherhood."
Again the moralist discusses the natural
office of the female, by analogy, when he
says*: "No one . . . reverences a flower
•"The Ascent of Man,"
22
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
like a biologist. He sees in its bloom the
blush of the young mother; in its fading the
eternal sacrifice of maternity. A yellow
primrose is not to him a yellow primrose.
It is an exquisite and complex structure
added on to the primrose plant for the pur-
pose of producing other primrose plants."
I/Ogically applying this analogy to human
life, it would read: No one reverences a
woman like a sociologist. He sees in her
bloom but the blush of the young mother, in
her fading the sign of past usefulness. A
woman, to him, is not a woman, but a group
of complex female organs added on to the
woman for the purpose of producing other
human beings. This means about what it
would, to say: No one reverences man like
the anatomist before the dissecting table.
To him man is not a man, but a highly spe-
cialized complex organism of bone, tissue,
muscle and nerve, which was previously
occupied by an Intelligence for the purpose
of feeding and breeding and operating that
mass of bone, tissue, muscle and nerve.
This moral philosophy, if reduced to its
23
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
basic propositions, would read something as
follows:
Life is a struggle for physical and moral
benefit.
The struggle for physical benefit is egoistic
and selfish; the struggle for moral benefit is
altruistic and sacrificial.
The business of evolution is the manufac-
ture of mothers.
The object of Nature is an improved
family.
Life is controlled by its functions, and the
destiny of the Individual is fulfilled in fol-
lowing lines laid out by nutrition and repro-
duction.
The female is created for reproduction.
Love is forced upon the world through the
physical disabilities of the female.
Sex is the physical device for reproduction.
The diflPerence between Darwinism and
Drummondism, thus appears to be a diflfer-
ence only in degree. The one subordinates
both man and woman to the struggle for nu-
trition, while the other subordinates man to
nutrition and woman to reproduction. The
moralist plainly says: "Man's life, on the
24
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
whole, is determined chiefly by the function
of nutrition; woman's by the function of re-
production. Man satisfies the one by going
out into the world, and in the rivalries of war
and the ardors of the chase, in conflict with
Nature, and amid the stress of industrial pur-
suits, fulfilling the law of Self-Preservation;
woman completes her destiny by occupying
herself with the industries and sanctities of
home and paying the eternal debt of Mother-
hood."*
Here we have graphically presented two
great struggles said to be taking place in Na-
ture: "The Struggle for Life" and 'The
Struggle for the Life of Others." The first
is a purely egoistic struggle for physical bene-
fit. The other is an enforced physical sacri-
fice for posterity, which process the moralist
defines as altruistic.
These are held to be the two great strug-
gles of all living Nature, the two main ac-
tivities of Intelligent Life, the two great mo-
tives of action, the two sources of inspiration
to human endeavor. Here, in brief, are
shown the two factors of evolution, the phys-
*"The Ascent of Man."
25
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ical causes of all we know as Life, of all we
admire as Intelligence and of all we rever-
ence as Love.
The first theory conceives Nature as work-
ing out its physical and material benefits un-
der a law of self-defense. The second theory
conceives Nature as working out its moral
purposes and benefits under a law of self-
suppression and self-sacrifice. Neither of
these theories finds a purpose in Nature which
justifies these physical competitions for life,
nor these physical sacrifices for the life of
others.
Both of these doctrines agree that Nature
is a monster. The one theory sees Nature im-
proving species at the expense of the Individ-
ual Man and Woman. The other holds that
Nature is improving the family at the expense
of the Individual Woman.
Neither materialistic science nor material-
istic theology perceives a principle in Nature
that impels but does not compel. In neither
struggle depicted is there a hint of that higher
struggle which sustains Intelligence during
its struggle for nutrition and its struggle for
reproduction. Nowhere in these doctrines is
26
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
there any recognition of that Universal mo-
tive which inspires every created thing to ac-
tion, from atom to man. Nowhere is there
any recognition that Individual Intelligence
embraces a principle of life, of progress and
of Love, which is neither competition nor
sacrifice. Nowhere is there recognition of
the principle of co-operation and fulfillment,
which is the principle of Individual Content.
The failure to recognize the Universal
Principle of Polarity in Man is especially
surprising, since the moralist so clearly ob-
serves it in the under-world of unconscious
substance. Not until he closes his work does
he really discover the principle upon which
his argument should have been based. Here
he catches a glimpse of that Universal law
which governs evolution from its faint fore-
shadowings, in the equilibrium of two un-
conscious atoms, to the Self-Conscious Hap-
piness of two Intelligent Souls.
He recognizes a "psychical affinity" be-
tween mineral atoms, but he finds only "phys-
ical passion" as the bond uniting man and
woman.
Here, in brief, are set forth two popular
27
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
theories which rest wholly upon the physical
functions of Nature. The first theorist, ab-
sorbed in the struggle for nutrition, declares
that a physically fittest species is the highest
result attainable through evolution. The
other theorist, concentrating upon reproduc-
tion, declares that a morally improved family
is the object sought in evolution.
It will be observed that both theories ig-
nore Nature in one important particular.
Neither considers that which forms the very
basis of the physically improved species and
the morally improved family:
The Individual, throinjh whom Nature
must improve species and perfect the family.
No satisfactory theory of the evolution of
man can obtain so long as the genesis of life
upon this planet is shrouded in darkness.
The real factors and causes of evolution are
bound up in this question of life itself.
The vital problem in science is the appear-
ance of organic life upon this globe of inor-
ganic matter.
Physical science confesses itself baffled at
every point when it would explain how life
evolves from non-life, how sensation evolves
28
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
from non-sensation, or why Intelligence in-
heres in living things. It fails to explain
these phenomena just as it fails to explain
how Intelligence evolves or how unmoral
perceptions rise into moral conceptions.
The Darwinian theory of evolution de-
pends upon the original hungry life cell.
This theory, it will be observed, does not
account for the hunger of that cell any more
than it does for life itself. There is one fact
which physical science consistently ignores,
namely, that the life cell seeks nutrition be-
cause of an innate and pre-existing demand of
some character.
Darwinism declares that everything came
to be as it is because it was reinforced from
without and because hunger and hostile en-
vironment forced it to do thus or so. It
therefore accepts both hunger and life as ul-
timate mysteries. It thereafter concerns itself
entirely with the physical phenomena mani-
fested by this unexplained hungry cell after
it is generated by undiscovered forces.
Thus, physical science rests upon assump-
tions which preclude further investigation as
to the genesis of physical life. Failing to ac-
29
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
count for it by the means known to physical
science, it therefore holds that it cannot be
accounted for in science. It contents itself
with assuming that life somehow generates
through mechanical and non-intelligent phys-
ical forces. It does not explain either the
principle or the elements underlying this me-
chanical and non-intelligent physical move-
ment.
With this for a major premise physical
science thereafter is bound to assume that all
further evolution or organization or varia-
tion of life cells rests upon mechanical prin-
ciples and non-intelligent physical forces.
Physical science is thus bound to assume
that man is the direct result of a blind diges-
tive apparatus.
The physical materialist simply assumes
that the physical functions constitute the sole
factors in evolution. He does not concern
himself with the principle which set the
hungry life cell in operation. He fails to
demonstrate and explain the generation of
life, the pre-existence of hunger and the orig-
inal capacity for reproduction.
These assumptions, as will be seen, also ig-
30
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
nore that principle in Nature which endows
original protoplasm with the masculine and
the feminine characteristics, qualities and ca-
pacities.
No school of science will satisfy human
Intelligence which attempts to explain evolu-
tion without reference to the principles which
generate a living entity and endow it with
hunger, sex and an impulse to persist as an
Individual.
For years the world of science lived in ex-
pectancy of generating life by experiment.
Two groups of scientists warmly debated the
issue. One group, the experimenters, held to
a theory of spontaneous generation of life
from non-living substance. The other group
maintained that life generates only from ante-
cedent life.
The experiment consisted in sealing boiled
water in air-tight jars.
When generation did not occur it had to
be conceded that life does not generate in
boiled water sealed in air-tight jars. The ex-
perimenters were right when they afterward
agreed that life does not generate in a
vacuum. Their opponents were also right
31
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
when they declared that life generates only
from antecedent life.
Upon the strength of these experiments
physical science formulates what it terms the
"Law of Biogenesis." While this theory fails
to explain both the principle and process in-
volved in the generation of life, yet it does
undertake to explain how life can not gen-
erate. It claims that there can be no passage
from mineral to plant life nor from plant to
animal life. It declares that the doors of
each kingdom are hermetically sealed upon
the mineral side.
In its last analysis physical science fails to
suggest the causes which produce the original
cell. It therefore relegates the origin of
physical life to the region of the "Unknow-
able."
Physical science agrees that the vibration
of matter means the movement of matter. It
agrees that this vibration or motion of mat-
ter, as a whole, is maintained by the action
and reaction of individual particles moving
upon each other. Physical science also agrees
that by and through this ceaseless activity of
matter force is generated.
32
GENESIS OF PHYSICAL LIFE
Thus far physical science coincides with
Natural Science.
Natural Science goes far enough to dem-
onstrate that it is the ceaseless activity of in-
dividual particles moving upon each other
which refines matter itself and increases its
vibratory action.
Physical science is concerned at present
with the vibrations of physical matter only.
Natural Science is concerned with the vibra-
tory activities of spiritual material as well as
physical material. It studies physical matter
by physical means and spiritual matter by
spiritual means.
Natural Science is therefore in position to
discuss the law of motion and number from
two points of view instead of one. It is pre-
pared to estimate and compare the difference
in the refinement of matter and the vibratory
activities of two worlds of matter.
Natural Science discovers something more
than physical matter in motion. It finds
that a physical entity is something vastly
more than mere physical matter keyed to a
certain rate of vibratory action. It finds that
all matter is alive, or rather that matter is
33
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
animated by something which we name either
magnetism, vitality or life. It finds that a
steel magnet exhibits a certain character of
vitality, a tree possesses yet another, the ani-
mal still another, while it finds that Man ex-
hibits higher and more subtle energies than
anything below him.
CHAPTER IV
THE FOUR KINGDOMS
The four Universal Life Elements suc-
cessively give rise to the four great physical
kingdoms, Mineral, Vegetable, Animal and
Human.
Each one of the Life Elements gives rise
to a distinctive form of physical activity or
life. Each element governs a kingdom which
is entirely distinct in physical appearance, in
characteristics, capacities and activities.
The union of physical matter and the Life
Elements is brought about through and by
the operation of that principle which inheres
in the Universal Life Elements themselves.
Each Life Element displays dual and yet
differing powers of positive and receptive
energy.
In the union of physical matter with one
or more of these Life Elements arise the
phenomena of magnetism, vitality and life.
ss
r
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
The Universal Life Elements are four in
number:
The Electro- Magnetic Life Element.
The Vito-Chemical Life Element.
The Spiritual Life Element.
The Soul Life Element.
One or more of these vital elements mag-
netizes, vivifies, vitalizes or animates all
physical matter, including the mineral atom,
the plant, the animal and the man.
What we know as magnetism in metals,
vitality in vegetation, and life in the animal
and man are certain temporary relations es-
tablished between physical material and the
finer and more subtle Life Elements.
The range of phenomena included in the
operation of these elements extends down-
ward to the unconscious mineral atom and
upward to the Self-Conscious Soul.
The Electro-Magnetic Life Element, the
least potent of all the vital elements, ani-
mates mineral substance and displays the
powers of union, cohesion and aggregation.
The Vito-Chemical Life Element, the next
higher and more potent of the Universal Life
Elements, vivifies vegetable substance and
H
THE FOUR KINGDOMS
governs a higher form of life and activity.
This element displays something more than
the powers of union, cohesion and aggrega-
tion. It does something more than unite al-
ready existing particles. It possesses in addi-
tion the powers of growth and organization.
It generates new forms of attracting the nec-
essary material from the Universal elemer.ts.
The Spiritual Life Element, a still higher
and more potent element, generates a still
higher form of life. Animal life is a dis-
tinct advance upon vegetable life. Animal
organisms possess a vitality, capacity and
power wholly unlike and superior to the
plant. The animal cell exhibits the same un-
conscious union, cohesion and aggregation
of the mineral atoms. They also possess the
power of growth and organization as do the
plants. The animal, as a whole, possesses ca-
pacities which far transcend those of the
mineral or vegetable kingdom. These ca-
pacities are defined as an Individual Con-
sciousness, Sensation and Instinct, and the
power of Volition.
The Soul Life Element, the highest and
most subtle known to science, inspires the
S7
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
kingdom of man. In this fourth and highest
kingdom arc found every capacity, charac-
teristic and possibility of all of the lower
kingdoms. Added to these is a certain char-
acter of life, of energy and of capacity never
yet discovered in the lower kingdoms. In
this kingdom and in this alone are found
Self-Consciousness, a Rational Intelligence,
Morality, Altruism, and a free and Indepen-
dent Will and Desire.
Each one of the Life Elements dominates
a particular kingdom and gives rise to a dis-
tinctive class of phenomena.
These elements are unlike in essense, dif-
fering in character and capacity. They are
of different degrees of refinement and there-
fore move at different rates of vibratory
action.
The two lower Life Elements, the Electro-
Magnetic and the Vito-Chemical, have a
physical as well as an ethereal side.
These are the only tico of the vital Ele-
ments which move at such a low rate of vi-
bratory action as to come within the range
of physical experiment.
Man, through his knowledge and control
St
THE FOUR KINGDOMS
of these two particular Elements, revolution-
izes, from time to time, the established order
of human society. Electrical, chemical and
medical sciences rest upon the knowledge,
control and a practical application of the
Electro-Magnetic and Vito-Chemical forces
in Nature.
The Soul Life Element is the highest and
most subtle element which enters into the
composition of man himself. Water cannot
rise above its own source when left to itself.
The Intelligent Soul has not risen to an In-
telligent perception of anything higher than
his own highest element.
This is the element most difficult of anal-
ysis and demonstration. Study of this ele-
ment and mastery of its principles, constitute
the highest occupation of human Intelligence
both physical and spiritual.
''The proper study of mankind is man."
This was not intended simply as the study
of man anatomically or physiologically. He
who really studies man, investigates and
analyzes the capacities and powers of an In-
telligent Soul. He does not merely dissect
39
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
the physical body nor analyze its physical
functions.
The several distinct kingdoms of Nature
represent the union of physical matter with
the several Life Elements in Nature. These
several kingdoms are seen to rise successively
as one after another the Life Elements are
inducted into physical matter.
The vitalization of physical matter de-
pends upon the energies which inhere in the
Universal Elements themselves.
The withdrawal of the Life Element pro-
duces the same result in each kingdom of Na-
ture, devitalization or death. The material
particles of any physical organism, divested
of the controlling Life Element, experience
a form of disintegration which we name de-
cay and death.
When the Electro-Magnetic Life Element
is extracted from iron or steel we have de-
vitalized mineral substance or dead ore. If
a bottle of herb extract is left uncorked, the
medicine loses its potency or its life. When
a man dies physically it means that the more
permanent man has withdrawn from the
physical counterpart. It means that the spir-
4«
THE FOUR KINGDOMS
itual organism, still animated by the Indi-
vidual Intelligence, survives that event and
goes on with existence under new material
conditions.
Physical matter is negative to and subject
to the action of the positive Life Elements.
Physical life is nothing more than the mani-
festation of a certain relation between the
animating Life Elements and coarser phys-
ical particles.
The supreme power of the Soul Life Ele-
ment is held to be its power of persistence
after physical death as an Individual and
Self-Conscious Intelligence. The Soul Life
Element in its positive and receptive energies
corresponds with all of the lower Life Ele-
ments of Nature. Moved by the same prin-
ciple, the Soul Life Element animates and
inspires humanity. It moves in lines of posi-
tive and receptive Intelligence, the Intelligent
Ego being essentially masculine or feminine.
Distinct cleavage exists in the Intelligence
as well as in the physical and spiritual or-
ganisms of the human family.
Each higher kingdom includes all of the
41
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
energies and functions and powers of the
lower Life Elements.
A plant includes the energies and powers
of Electro-Magnetic as well as those of Vito-
Chemical Life. The animal represents these
same two elements though governed by the
Spiritual Life Element. Man combines the
energies, functions, and capacities of all the
Elements, though he is governed by the high-
est, the Self Conscious Soul.
The Universal Life Elements appear to
have special offices in the economy of Na-
ture. To the Electro-Magnetic is assigned
the refinement of mineral substance and the
solidifying of the planet. To Vito-Chemical
Life is given the task of preparing the planet
for physical life. The particular office of the
Spiritual Life Element appears to be the
completion of the physical body.
To an Intelligent Soul is specially assigned
the acquisition of knowledge, the acquire-
ment of power, the exercise of Love and the
attainment of Happiness.
From lowest to highest each element has
performed its task through the sex principle
of positive and receptive energy. Only by
42
THE FOUR KINGDOMS
comparison is human Intelligence able to
comprehend this stupendous drama which is
being enacted by Nature. Only by compar-
ing a positive and a negative mineral atom
with a man and a woman can the mind grasp
the meaning of the word evolution.
The evolution of each physical kingdom is
the result of the Individual activities of en-
tities which go to make up that kingdom.
This Individual activity of the entity occa-
sions all magnetic change and chemical com-
bination. It occasions all growth, vegetable
and animal. It governs the increase of In-
telligence and the development of Reason,
Morality and Love.
Physical change and transmutation of mat-
ter are occasioned by the Universal Life Ele-
ments rather than the physical part of the
Individual Entity. All the intelligent opera-
tions of the physical human Individual are
occasioned by demands which inhere in a
Soul. The struggle for nutrition, the strug-
gle for reproduction, and all other struggles
appearing to be physical, are prompted by
demands which exist in a Soul.
One who studies the Universal Life Ele-
43
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ments back of all physical matter discovers
that all the operations of individuals in the
lower kingdom are intelligent. All voluntary
activities of animals arc governed by con-
scious Intelligence resident in the Spiritual
Life Element.
The voluntary acts of men are directly re-
ferable to the Self-Conscious Intelligence or
Soul.
This Intelligent Ego operates both bodies
in this physical life and departs with the
spiritual body at physical death.
Natural Science discovers vastly more than
the fact that there are principles, properties
and Elements Universal in Nature. It goes
further than mere analysis of co-operations
as between these principles, properties and
elements. It goes further than mere demon-
stration of material processes of evolution,
whether those processes be physical or spir-
itual. It declares that this world of ours is
something more than a world of physical
matter.
Linnaeus concisely expressed these evolu-
tionary steps in Nature when he said:
THE FOUR KINGDOMS
"Stones grow, plants grow and live, animals
grow, live and feel."
Had he gone one step further and added,
"Men grow, live, feel and think," he would
have expressed the philosophy of Individual
Life.
Everything that is, atom, cell, organism,
animal and human, is in a present state of
refining, change and improvement. The
physical matter of one kingdom is being per-
petually refined for the uses of another. The 'A
life of one kingdom is continually preparing
the way for the higher life of another king-
dom. The Intelligence of one kingdom is
continually aspiring to Intelligence of a
higher order.
Considering the marvelous results achieved
by physical science through its knowledge of
the least potent of the vital Elements, it is not
difficult to conceive of the still more wonder-
ful results which would naturally flow from a
knowledge and control of all the Life Ele-
ments.
Study of the Life Elements In operation is
the study of the Universal principle of Po-
larity or Affinity. Through analysis of these
4S
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
elements is demonstrated the fact that the
principle of polar attraction inheres in the
vital elements themselves, and not in the solid
particles of physical matter.
Human afiFairs bear the impress of the Soul
Life Element and must be measured and reg-
ulated and judged from the human kingdom.
A man is more than an atom or a plant or an
animal. He is all these and more. He com-
bines the Elements and energies of all lower
entities, but in addition enjoys the potencies,
powers and responsibilities of a distinctly
higher Life Element.
CHAPTER V
POLARITY
Nature's formula for evolution, if reduced
to one fundamental proposition, would be
:
There is a principle in Nature which
impels every entity to seek vibratory cor-
respondence with another like entity
of opposite polarity.
According to all science there is a plane-
tary period antedating all forms of vegetable,
animal and human life. During this period,
according to Natural Science, the lowest of
all the vital elements directly governed phys-
ical substance. During this period the cold
Electro-Magnetic forces operated directly
through and upon all physical matter. These
forces operated as positive and receptive en-
ergy. In consequence, all cosmic physical
substance is either positively or receptively
charged with Electro-Magnetism.
As a consequence two important conditions
obtain
:
47
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
All physical matter is Electro-Magnetic,
or mineral matter.
A distinct cleavage exists throughout this
mineral kingdom, the one part being posi-
tively and the other receptively charged with
the governing element of Electro-Magnetism.
The one part, the positive, is in a highly
active state. The other part, though equally
potent, is simply receptive to the demands
of the positive side. Between the two parts
there exists a Universal Attraction or Affinity.
This attraction or affinity as between the
two parts is maintained through and by
individual attractions of the atoms which
compose those parts.
The Affinity between Individual mineral
atoms is governed by:
That principle in Nature which im-
pels EVERY ENTITY TO SEEK VIBRATORY
CORRESPONDENCE WITH ANOTHER LIKE EN-
TITY OF OPPOSITE POLARITY.
The result of this attraction between Indi-
viduals is union. When such union estab-
lishes a perfect vibratory correspondence an
equilibrium of forces obtains. When such
union fails to establish vibratory corrcspond-
4t
POLARITY
ence repulsion occurs and the divorced atoms
seek union elsewhere in pursuance of the law
of chemical affinity.
The result of these Individual efforts for
an Individual equilibrium is a ceaseless com-
bining and recombining of mineral sub-
stances. By and through these Individual
efforts for Individual adjustment new unions
of mineral substances are being continually
formed. Gradually these Individuals estab-
lish temporary unions, after which the same
law operates to attract and unite whole
groups of Individuals. These combinations
we term "chemical compounds."
These compounds are the offspring of the
Electro-Magnetic energies in Nature.
Thus was our whole earth gradually solidi-
fied from its incandescent and gaseous stages.
Moved by this Universal Principle of
Affinity, the entire gaseous and liquid mass
finally settled into a solid globe in the order
of its Individual Affinities. The law of Af-
finity was not suspended with the crystalliza-
tion of the mineral gases. It continued to
operate through the solid as well as the gas-
49
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
eous and liquid substances. The result of this
ceaseless activity of mineral substances is:
Reduction in the size of the Individual
atom.
Increased vibratory action of that atom in
the compound.
Mineral substance is universally (though
not simultaneously) refined as a whole and
keyed to higher vibrations in Nature. There
comes a time when a portion of this mineral
substance is raised to certain ratios of corre-
spondence with the vibratory action of a sec-
ond and higher Life Element in Nature.
The next higher Life Element, the Vito-
Chemical, lies universally with the lower
Life Element of Electro-Magnetism (as far
as science knows).
When the mineral atom has been thus
raised to the harmonic relation necessary, it
becomes susceptible to the essence and activ-
ity of the Vito-Chemical Life Element.
Impregnation occurs. The higher Life Ele-
ment is inducted into mineral substance and
the mineral atom becomes a vegetable par-
ticle, endowed with Vito-Chemical or vege-
table life.
POLARITY
By this process and under this principle is
all life generated upon this planet.
The phenomena of the vegetable kingdom
are analogous to those of the mineral. Moved
by the same principle of Polarity or Affinity,
the Vito-Chemical Life Element operates
through and upon vegetable substance as pos-
itive and receptive energy. In consequence
all vegetable substance is either positively or
receptively conditioned. A distinct cleavage
obtains throughout the vegetable kingdom.
One part represents the highly active or posi-
tive energies of the Vito-Chemical Life
Element; the other, though equally potent,
represents the receptive or absorbing energies
of the same Element.
Between these two parts, oppositely charged
or polarized, there exists a universal and vol-
untary attraction or affinity. This attraction
or affinity of the whole is maintained through
and by the Individual Affinities of entities
composing the whole.
The affinity between Individual vegetable
particles is governed by:
That principle in Nature which im-
pels EVERY ENTITY TO SEEK VIBRATORY
51
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
CORRESPONDENCE WITH ANOTHER LIKE EN-
TITY OF OPPOSITE POL/\RITY.
The result of this Attraction or Affinity be-
tween individual particles is union. In the
temporary correspondences between Individ-
ual particles, the powers of generation obtain
and reproduction of vegetable cells occurs.
These reproductions represent the positive
or male energies of Vito-Chemical Life act-
ing upon the receptive, absorbing, feminine
energies of the same element.
The progeny of these combined powers is
but an incidental result of the effort made by
two vegetable particles for vibratory corre-
spondence.
The same natural law of Affinity operates
to draw Individual pairs into definite groups
and forms. As a result we have a whole king-
dom representing the processes of the Vito-
Chemical Life Element, from the simplest
lichen to plant, bush, vine and tree.
The effect of this ceaseless activity in vege-
table substance is to refine it as to particle and
to increase the vibratory action of that
particle.
Vegetable substance is universally (though
POLARITY
not simultaneously) refined as a whole and
keyed to higher vibrations in Nature. There
comes a period when a proportion of these
vegetable particles is raised to certain ratios
of correspondence with the vibratory action
of a third and yet higher Life Element in
Nature.
This third and higher Element is known to
science as the Spiritual Life Element. It is
supposed to pervade all space, as do the lower
Elements of Electro-Magnetic and Vito-
Chemical Life. When the vegetable cell
reaches a given ratio of vibratory correspond-
ence with this higher Element it becomes
susceptible to the essence and activity of that
Element.
As a result the Spiritual Life Element is
inducted into the vegetable cell and converts
it into the nucleated animal life cell.
Moved by the same principle of Polarity
or Affinity, the Spiritual Life Element oper-
ates through and upon animal life cells as
positive and receptive energy. This princi-
ple operates to produce results clearly analo-
gous to those in the lower kingdoms. In con-
sequence all animal nature is positively or
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
receptively polarized. A distinct cleavage
obtains in the animal world, one part being
positive or male, the other receptive or fe-
male. The one part represents the highly
active and aggressive nature of the Spiritual
Life Element, the other represents the recep-
tive or absorbing nature of the same element.
Between the two sexes exists a universal
and voluntary Attraction or Affinity. This
attraction or affinity between the two sexes, as
a whole, is maintained through and by the in-
dividual affinities of the male and female
animals.
This affinity between male and female ani-
mals is governed by:
That principle in Nature which im-
pels EVERY ENTITY TO SEEK VIBRATORY
CORRESPONDENCE WITH ANOTHER LIKE EN-
TITY OF OPPOSITE POLARITY.
When the attraction between individual
animals establishes vibratory correspondence
it becomes a union. Where it fails of Na-
ture's purpose, repulsion occurs and the di-
vorced animals seek harmonic relations else-
where. Reproduction is one of the physical
results of this effort for self-adjustment. The
POLARITY
powers of generation are attained in that su-
preme effort of the individual pairs.
Reproduction is the incidental result of the
Individual effort for self-adjustment between
animals.
The principle of Affinity operating upon
animal life produces:
The positive and receptive activity of pro-
toplasm.
The organization of cells into complex
organisms.
The union of individual animals.
The effect of this ceaseless activity in the
animal kingdom produces results analogous
to those of the lower kingdoms.
Animal substance is gradually (though not
simultaneously) refined as a whole, and keyed
to higher vibrations in Nature. This refining
process in animal life goes on as to physical
particle, cell, organism and Intelligence.
Consequently and correspondingly the vibra-
tory action of particle, cell and organism in
animal life is increased.
There comes a period under evolutionary
processes when animal substance is so refined
and raised in vibratory condition that it
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
comes into a natural and harmonic relation
icith the fourth and highest Life Element in
Nature.
This is the Soul Life Element, Universal
in Nature as are the lower elements of Elec-
tro-Magnetic, Vito-Chemical and Spiritual
Life.
Natural Science holds that the induction of
this Element confers upon man those distinct-
ive qualities defined as human. Man enjoys
Self Consciousness and Consciousness of other
selves. This means an Independent Intelli-
gence and a personal identity with the higher
powers of Reason and Volition.
The polar affinities in human life include
an attraction in all of the lower elements.
The strongest attraction between man and
woman is an attraction governed by the de-
mands of the highest element, the Soul.
Attraction between Intelligent human be-
ings is based upon:
That fundamental principle in Na-
ture WHICH IMPELS every ENTITY TO SEEK
VIBRATORY CORRESPONDENCE WITH ANOTHER
LIKE ENTITY OF OPPOSITE POLARITY.
The result of Attraction and Affinity be-
POLARITY
tween Intelligent human beings is union or
marriage. Failure to attain the harmonic re-
lation sought results in a natural repulsion,
natural divorce and a natural desire to seek
self-adjustment elsewhere. The physical
union of two human beings is an expression
of a Soul's desire for Individual Happi-
ness.
In that physical union the powers of gen-
eration are attained and reproduction fol-
lows.
Reproduction in the human family is an in-
cidental result of an effort made by Individ-
ual Intelligence seeking its own satisfactions. J
^ The same principle of Affinity which crys-
tallized the fiery cloud ball into our solid
earth continues to operate even after it has
perfected the four great physical kingdoms
and established Man as master of them all.
The evolution of the physical body ceases
with man. Nature has completed the phys-
ical instrument of Intelligence as far as its
mechanism is concerned.
Man is now provided with all necessary
organs for the uses of physical, spiritual, in-
tellectual and moral living.
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
The physical organism of man is suscepti-
ble to immeasurable refinement and corre-
sponding increase in vibratory action, but not
to any known change structurally.
fVith the evolutionary arrest of the phys-
ical body the process of Evolution continues
in the Individual IntcUiyence.
The Soul Life Element, though manifest-
ing through physical form, yet governs the
distinct kingdom of intellectual life and
therein carries on the higher evolution of
man. The greatest kingdom in Nature, the
realm of Rational Intelligence and of ethical
development, is the kingdom of the Soul.
The Principle of Polarity or Affinity in-
heres in the Universal Life Elements. This
means that what physical science calls the law
of vibration is a Law operating through and
upon physical material.
In the Life Elements we find the cause of
that Universal cleavage in physical Nature
known as SEX, the phenomenon of positive
and receptive energy. Each and every one of
the Life Elements is dual in its nature and
manifests itself as either positive or receptive
energy. As a result, the law of Polarity, or
POLARITY
the law of Sex, governs everything known to
man, from the chemical atom to an Intelli-
gent Soul. Everything upon the physical
plane belongs to either the positive or the re-
ceptive department of Nature. This applies
to mineral, vegetable and animal substance.
It applies also to organized entities, plant, an-
imal and human.
Between the positive and the receptive en-
ergies of any one of the Life Elements there
exists an inherent attraction and irresistible
impulse for union.
As a result, all physical substances. Entities
and Individuals representing those dual en-
ergies are impelled to union by the affinities
resident in the Life Elements themselves.
Each kingdom of Nature is divided into a
positive department and a receptive depart-
ment. Each Individual of that kingdom is
arrayed on one side or the other, as a positive
or receptive factor in evolution.
Between these two departments, between
these oppositely polarized atoms, entities and
Individuals, exists an affinity or impulse for
union.
The science of chemistry is based upon the
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
affinities which inhere in the Electro-Mag-
netic and the Vito-Chemical Life Elements.
The philosophy of Individual Life is based
upon the affinities which reside in the Soul
Element.
The process by which physical matter is
gradually refined and raised to certain ratios
of correspondence with the Universal Life
Elements constitutes the evolutionary process
upon this planet.
The principle of Polarity which inheres in
the four Life Elements appears to be the
agent employed by the Great Intelligence to
guide this process.
This principle evolves the four great king-
doms in Nature, successively governed by the
four Life Elements.
Natural Science discovers something more
in Nature than a Universal Principle of Po-
larity or Affinity. It discovers something
more than physical matter in motion. It finds
that a physical Entity is something vastly
more than mere physical matter keyed to a
certain rate of vibratory action. It finds that
all matter is animated by something which we
name either magnetism, vitality or life. It
60
POLARITY
finds that a steel magnet exhibits a certain
character of vitality, a tree possesses yet an-
other, the animal still another, while it finds
that man exhibits higher and more subtle en-
ergies than anything below him.
It must be understood that these proposi-
tions are not intended to explain the Principle
of Polarity itself.
They indicate only the fact that science dis-
covers such a principle.
They are not intended to explain why this
principle governs evolution.
They are merely intended to state the fact
that under this principle matter is refined and
increased in vibratory action, that life is
generated, Intelligence Individualized, Love
developed and Happiness attained.
Nature's formula is not presented as a rea-
son for Nature itself.
It is, instead, presented as an explanation
of the method employed by Nature to gen-
erate life and to improve her living products.
In short, it is intended to show how a Uni-
versal Life Element is inducted into physical
matter, which explanation covers the question
as to the genesis of physical life.
61
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
It requires the greatest effort of Intelli-
gence to perceive that all of this marvelous
movement, change and progress depend upon
that one principle which impels everything
that is, to seek correspondence in that which
is of opposite polarity. It is, however, these
ceaseless eflforts of Individuals, seeking In-
dividual adjustment, which occasion all this
mighty movement, variation and improve-
ment.
The Universal Principle of Polarity or
AfTinity, recognized by physical science as the
law of vibration, is, in reality, the fundamen-
tal principle of evolution and the generator
of all physical life.
Natural Science, more conservative, would
say—evolution begins ? and ends ?
It is thus admitted that Natural Science
has neither comprehended nor demonstrated
the beginning nor the ending of the infinite
scheme of evolution. Evolution is regarded
as an infinite process. Man is considered as
a factor in that process. To know the begin-
ning and the ending of this stupendous drama
would be to know God.
What Natural Science does claim to know
62
POLARITY
concerning the genesis of physical life and
the evolution of man are:
The genesis of the animal life cell is the
point of contact between a particle of vege-
table substance and the universal Spiritual
Life Element.
That point of contact is the stage of evolu-
tion at w^hich the vibratory action of the
vegetable particle rises to a necessary ratio of
correspondence with the Spiritual Life Ele-
ment.
The genesis of all physical life is governed
by the principle of Polarity or Affinity.
Polarity, or positive and receptive energy,
are powers which inhere in the Life Ele-
ments.
The operation of these highly active but
opposite energies occasions the phenomena of
chemical affinity and of sex in plant, animal
and human life.
The office of sex in Nature is to promote
and achieve equalization of those positive
and receptive energies.
Nature seeks equalization of the whole by
and through individual efforts for self-equal-
ization of the Individual.
63
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
The ceaseless attractions, unions, combina-
tions and activities of positive and receptive
physical entities entail the refinement of mat-
ter, the increase of vibratory action and the
genesis of physical life.
64
CHAPTER VI
^
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
Natural science holds that no adequate the-
ory of Evolution can ignore Intelligence,
either in its general or its individual aspect.
This position directly contravenes physical
science. Not Darw^in alone, but almost the
entire line of authorities in that school, ig-
nores these most patent of all facts in Nature,
the manifestation of a general Intelligence in
every operation of inorganic nature, and the
phenomenon of an Individualized Intelli-
gence rising out of those general processes of
inorganic nature.
This complete overlooking of so self-evi-
dent a principle is the one error of modern
science v^^hich, to the trained student of Na-
ture, appears as "inexplicable." To account
for the Universe as the outcome of blind me-
chanical energies, and to account for human
Intelligence as a result of blind physical
forces, do not necessarily indicate lack of In-
6S
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
telligence. They do, however, indicate In-
telligence restricted and confined to very nar-
row limits.
Natural Science accepts Universal Intelli-
gence as the primary cause of all that is, and
not as a recent and incidental result of a di-
gestive apparatus. Natural Science does not
hold itself competent to account for Intelli-
gence. It does claim that Natural Science is
able to point out the general evidences of In-
telligence. It is also able to trace the proc-
esses of Individualizing Intelligence by
means of improved physical organisms.
It declares, upon carefully demonstrated
facts of Nature, that evolution is progress by
and through Intelligent Universal Principles.
The evolution of Intelligence is a more
marvelous process than the evolution of the
physical body.
In the eyes of the true scientist (one who
knows the persistence of Intelligence after
physical death) the physical body can never
appear to be more than the instrument which
persistent Intelligence slowly fashions and
perfects for its uses on the physical plane.
Some one has said: "Intelligence sleeps in
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
the stone, dreams in the animal, wakens in
man." The case of Nature had been more
fully stated had it been said: "Intelligence
sleeps in the stone, dreams in the plant,
wakens in the animal and acts in man."
Intelligence, however, whether manifested
in the involuntary activities of material sub-
stance, or in the independent activities of
Intelligent Entities, remains as the ultimate
mystery in Nature. This is the principle
which rationalism names "law." This is the
principle which intuition calls "God."
This, indeed, is the "Great Unknown" to
science.
The fundamental principle in Nature is an
intelligent principle of fulfillment, a prin-
ciple of equalization of forces through vibra-
tory correspondences. The phenomenon of
Polarity, or the co-operation of the positive
and receptive energies in Nature, constitutes
the expression of this Universal principle.
That principle which impels one physical
particle to seek vibratory correspondence in
another particle of opposite polarity, must be
recognized in science as an Intelligent prin-
ciple. The act of the atoms is an Intelligent
67
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
act. In this case, the Intelligence is not an
Individual Intelligence residing in the atom.
It is, instead, that Universal Intelligence
which physical science is content to name
"Natural Law."
The phenomenon of love between two ra-
tional beings, man and woman, constitutes an
expression of the Individual principle of In-
telligence as well as the involuntary effects of
the Universal principle.
That principle which impels one rational
being to voluntarily seek correspondence in
another such being of opposite polarity, must
be recognized as an act of independent, Indi-
vidual Intelligence. In this case the impell-
ing principle resides in the Individual, not
merely in the Universal principle which gov-
erns unconscious physical substance.
The dawn of organic sex marks that stage
of evolution where Universal Intelligence en-
ters upon the process of Individualizing In-
telligence. Animal life, from its lowest to
its highest expression, stands as indisputable
proof of the purpose of Universal Intelli-
gence for an Individual expression.
Human life illustrates the highest achieve-
68
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
ment of that purpose. The Universal Intel-
ligent Principle of Polarity first raises the
Individual product to the point of an Indi-
vidual, self-operating Intelligence. After
this, Individual Intelligence raises itself by
Individual efforts which directly assist Na-
ture in the general purpose it has in view^
for the Individual.
Universal Intelligence and Individual In-
telligence are w^orking out the Universal pur-
pose of Nature and the particular purpose of
the Individual. Any other interpretation of
Nature, of life and of man, libels Nature and
stultifies Intelligence.
Evolution means progress by Intelligent
affinities, instead of progress by blind phys-
ical compulsions.
With the daw^n of Individual Intelligence,
there arises a distinctly new^ class and order of
phenomena. When Nature succeeds in evolv-
ing a sufficiently delicate physical organism,
the phenomenon of sensation is evoked. This
is the first distinct evidence of an Individual
Intelligence. The capacity for sensation is
evidence of a certain character of Intelligence
v^hich does not reside in a stone or a plant.
69
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
This is a point of Intelligence, Individual to
that particular living Entity, which experi-
ences sensation.
The cruder the physical organism the
poorer the instrument for the uses of Intelli-
gence, the duller are the sensations and the
fainter the perceptions. Evolution proceeds
under Universal Intelligence until the gener-
ation of Individual Intelligence takes place.
Until Individual sensation, perception and
volition obtain, there is no apparent distinc-
tion between the operations of the Universal
Principle of Polarity and the response of the
Individual to that principle. All the opera-
tions of Individuals below the point of a self-
operating Intelligence appear as purely auto-
matic. They appear as activities controlled
by Universal Intelligence. When Nature suc-
ceeds in evolving an organic Intelligence, of
even the meanest capacities, Evolution pro-
ceeds by a distinctly double process:
Under the guidance of the Universal
Principle of Polarity.
By the direct impulse of the Individual In-
telligent Will and Desire of an organic
Entity.
70
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
Until this stage is reached the phenomena
of Nature appear simply as mathematical and
involuntary results worked out under Uni-
versal Intelligent direction. After this the
higher phenomena of life consist in ethical
effects, to which Individual Intelligences
voluntarily give rise. From this stage science
must deal with processes and effects which are
Individual, as well as those which are Uni-
versal.
From this period, we may very properly
say, begins the Evolution of man, an Individ-
ualized Intelligence, inhabiting and operat-
ing two material bodies.
To know what moves an Individual is to
know what moves humanity. To know what
improves an Individual is to know what im-
proves the race. To learn the secret impulse,
motive and desire which inspire an Individ-
ual Man to action, is to discover Universal
human activity.
Each kingdom of Nature is directly con-
trolled by the highest Life Element which
goes to energize and vitalize the products of
that kingdom. Mankind, while combining
the energies and potencies of all lower Life
71
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Elements, is dominated by the highest which
enters into human nature. Though moved by
the impulses, and susceptible to the involun-
tary affinities of all lower Life Elements,
Man is nevertheless directly controlled by
Individual Intelligence.
It is to this Essential and Intelligent Soul,
or Ego, that we must look for human action.
In this alone can we hope to find a rational
explanation of Man as he has been, is, and
aspires to become.
This statement rests upon certain knowl-
edge of Man's psychical activities in two cor-
related worlds of intelligent life. A long and
careful study of the intelligent and moral ac-
tivities of Man in two worlds demonstrates
that he is moved to such activities by motives
which are ethical and individual to himself.
This is the fact, whether the Intelligent Ego
be physically embodied or spiritually em-
bodied.
This is the one and only reading of Nature
which explains Man as he is, and gives dig-
nity and value to Individual life.
Natural Science postulates, first. Evolution
by general Intelligence; second. Individual
72
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
Intelligence working out definite purposes
which are both general and Individual in
character.
Natural Science accepts the Individual as
the starting point. Indeed, for all natural,
scientific and philosophical purposes, the In-
telligent Individual is the center of the uni-
verse. From this center science and philoso-
phy must radiate.
Natural Science declares that an Intelli-
gent Individual is the first object in Nature,
and has a life, a place, a purpose and a des-
tiny distinctly his own. These are accounted
as Individual to himself, as are his face and
form, his habits and tastes, his physical and
spiritual bodies, his intellectual ambitions
and moral aspirations.
Nature demonstrates that an Individual
man comes to be what he is by reason of the
struggle in which his own Intelligence is for-
ever engaged.
The discovery, analysis and demonstration
of this greatest struggle in Nature, and the
principle involved in that struggle, enable
science to determine both the general purpose
73
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
of Universal Intelligence and the particular
purpose of Individual Intelligence.
There are apparent hostilities and conflicts
between Nature and the Individual. These
must be ascribed to the undeveloped percep-
tions and conceptions of Individual Intelli-
gence. They must be set down merely as
errors of Individual judgment, concerning
those things which the Individual seeks as a
benefit or a pleasure to himself. The triumph
of modern science is exposition of the fact
that human Intelligence is slowly but surely
utilizing hitherto "hostile forces" of Nature,
and is converting them into material benefits
to the Individual and the world.
In principle, in execution and in purpose,
Nature is both hospitable and Intelligent. It
moves toward its beneficent purposes in spite
of the errors of Individual Intelligence.
A study of the Evolution of Intelligence
means something more than observation of
the phenomena of physical life.
Such study properly begins with a consid-
eration of the Intelligent operations of uncon-
scious substance, mineral, vegetable and ani-
mal. It next includes a knowledge of that
74
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
Jndividualized Intelligence which inspires
and operates the physical organisms of both
animals and men.
Inquiry as to the purposes of Evolution
must include a recognition of Intelligence as
well as of Matter.
// must include all of the operations of Na-
ture as far as Intelligence itself can penetrate.
The attempt to solve the problem of Evolu-
tion through the physical functions of diges-
tion and reproduction is like trying to under-
stand the law of harmonics by studying the
fiber, mechanism and office of a piano case.
For knowledge of this great struggle which
directly bears upon Individual destiny, the
student is recommended to the study of hu-
man life. By the study of life is not meant
the study of physical functions, but of Intelli-
gence which inspires man to daily action.
Such study would include a knowledge of the
physical functions, as well as the appetites
and passions.
Review the history of civilization and the
development of science, art, philosophy and
philanthropy, and then decide whether such
accomplishments are referable to the process
75
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
of digestion or the activity of Individual
Intelligence.
Study the ethical phenomena of Love, and
determine whether it is compelled by a phys-
ical struggle, or impelled by an Individual,
Intelligent Struggle. Study Individual char-
acter and its effects upon the world. Analyze
Individual Desires, and determine the mo-
tives which inspire life to daily action.
Such study, observation and analysis will
convince an Individual that there is some-
thing underlying human activity infinitely
more subtle and more potent than the blind
demands of the physical functions. He will
convince himself that Individualized Intelli-
gence is engaged in a struggle that is of in-
finitely greater importance to himself than his
physical feeding or breeding.
In the Universal impulses, ambitions, as-
pirations, activities and relations of human
Intelligence, the investigator will find ample
evidences of the Evolution of Intelligence.
As a particular point in evidence the reader
is referred to the life and the works of
Charles Darwin. They furnish an interest-
ing commentary upon his own theories.
76
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
Here is a life spent, not in competitions for
physical benefit, but in the accumulation of
knowledge. Here is a life of not only labori-
ous research, but research accompanied with
a compilation of knowledge which, for accu-
racy and wealth of detail, astonished the
world. According to Mr. Darwin's theory,
his own life is contrary to Nature's purpose,
the preservation of species by way of the
most successful struggle for nutrition, and
the "largest possible number of healthy
progeny" on the part of the individual.
The life and the works of Darwin prove
exactly the reverse of what he lays down as
the working formula of human life. The
motive which impelled Darwin to his gigan-
tic task may have been, at the beginning,
merely a Desire for Knowledge. It certainly
was not the "struggle for nutrition" nor "the
struggle for progeny." However that may
have been, the motive which prompted the
publication of that knowledge was the desire
to transmit it to his fellow-men. By that pub-
lication and transmission of knowledge he
proved his desire to benefit humanity. He
became a philanthropist. Thus, in the very
77
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
face of his own theory of a selfish struggle for
nutrition and of selfish competitions, he lived
a life of unselfish devotion to purely Intellec-
tual pursuits, and illustrated the highest al-
truism in his efforts to serve truth for the good
of mankind.
For such a man and for such a life Mr.
Darwin finds no sanction in Nature. This
illustrates the ease with which a learned man
may theorize in defiance of his own life and
motives, as well as in contradiction of the
Universal impulses and experiences of man-
kind. The case of Mr. Darwin is not unique
in itself. The Individual struggles and
achievements of Intelligent beings constitute
the history of the evolution of man. The
final triumph of Individual Intelligence over
unknown and apparently hostile environ-
ment, is the commonest fact of human prog-
ress. This power of Individual Intelligence
to modify, conquer and create environment
testifies to the supremacy of Individual In-
telligence in the evolution of man.
In a broader sense than scientific skepticism
conceives, there is a struggle for Individual
Life. In a far nobler sense than speculative
71
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
theology dreams, there is a struggle for Love.
From the lowest to the highest expression of
Individual Intelligence there is a struggle for
life, or for self-persistence as an Individual.
From the lowest to the highest sentient and
conscious Entity there is an Individual strug-
gle for Individual satisfaction.
The struggle for Individual persistence of
a Soul is something more than a struggle for
physical life. The struggle for Individual
Happiness is something more than a struggle
to reproduce. Nutrition sustains life but it is
not life. Reproduction conserves life but it
does not create life. Above and beyond the
involuntary operations of the physical func-
tions are the voluntary Will and Desire of an
Intelligent Entity. Especially is this true of
human life. Above and beyond the functional
struggles for nutrition and reproduction ex-
tends the Intelligent struggle of a Soul for its
own Ethical Content, Satisfaction and Hap-
piness.
Physical science postulates a struggle for
existence in the midst of a hostile environ-
ment, as the basis of the evolution of man.
Nature demonstrates such basis to be a
79
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Struggle of Individual Intelligence in the
midst of environment only seemingly hostile.
Physical science fixes upon the physical
functions of nutrition and reproduction as the
compulsory causes of all progress. Nature
demonstrates that the Universal Principle of
Polarity, or Affinity, is the impelling cause of
all we perceive as physical Evolution and as
material refinement.
Physical science declares that a physically
improved species is the highest result obtain-
able under physical compulsions.
Nature demonstrates that Individual Com-
pletion is a scientific possibility under the
Universal Law of Attraction.
Physical science interprets the primary
purpose of the Individual as the "rearing of
the largest number of healthy progeny."
Nature demonstrates that the primary pur-
pose of the Individual Man and Woman is
Self-Completion.
Physical science is the science of evolution
through feeding and breeding. Nature dem-
onstrates the Evolution of Intelligence
through living and learning. The doctrines
and dogmas of physical materialism restrict
EVOLUTION OF INTELLIGENCE
the purposes of human life to the needs and
requirements of the physical body. The phi-
losophy of Individual Life, based upon Nat-
ural Science, extends the purposes of life to
the needs and requirements of an Intelligent
Individual.
The school of physical science, familiar
with physical facts alone, determines that the
whole purpose of Intelligent human life is
the preservation of species. This is a science
of natural hostility, of selfish competition and
of cruel sacrifice. This is the doctrine of the
suppression of the Individual, the doctrine of
doubt, despair and annihilation.
Natural Science, familiar with physical,
spiritual and psychical facts of Nature, dem-
onstrates that Nature is Intelligent in design,
Universal in principle, harmonic in opera-
tion, hospitable in purpose, beneficent in re-
sults. It demonstrates that the Universal pur-
pose of Intelligent human life is Individual
Completion and Happiness.
This is the science of Individual develop-
ment and of Individual Love. This is the
philosophy of Faith, Hope and Happiness,
and of the persistence and progress of the
81
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Completed Individual in another and finer
world than this.
Universal Intelligence is employed in
working out the mathematical designs of Na-
ture. Individual Intelligence is employed in
working out its own ethical purposes, as well
as in discharging its physical, spiritual and
psychical functions.
The Evolution of man rests upon co-oper-
ations as between a Universal principle of
Intelligence and a particular principle of In-
dividual Intelligence. Though Universal
Intelligence is working along lines which ap-
pear to be purely ethical, both, in fact, are
working out the same result.
Nature, upon its inorganic side, is co-oper-
ating to individualize and improve Intelli-
gence.
Individual Intelligences are co-operating
to serve the very purpose which Universal
Intelligence has in view, the individualizing,
persistence and completion of an Intelligent
Being.
92
CHAPTER VII
nature's purpose
Universal Intelligence governs the mathe-
matical progress of matter and life. It seeks
this end through and by vibratory corre-
spondences between individual particles of
material substance. This general purpose is
maintained by the action of Individual par-
ticles seeking vibratory correspondence in
other like particles of opposite polarity.
In Nature's lowest kingdom, that of uncon-
scious, inorganic mineral substance, origi-
nates that tremendous Universal effort whose
later developments enrich the kingdom of
man. How well that effort is rewarded ap-
pears in the refinement of matter, the genera-
tion of physical life, and the Individualizing
of Intelligence.
The coldly mathematical results which are
involved in the refinement of matter and the
increase of vibratory action, assisting Intelli-
83
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
gencc to an Individual expression, is Nature's
Purpose.
The purely ethical effects which accrue to
Individual Intelligence through those mathe-
matical correspondences and refinements is
the purpose for which an Individual strug-
gles.
On the side of Nature is a Universal prin-
ciple seeking to complete an Individual. On
the side of an Individual are the Individual
/Affinity of male and female Intelligence,
which impel them to complete themselves
through an Individual Satisfaction or Con-
tent,
From the dawn of Individual Intelligence
this great Purpose in Nature proceeds, on one
side exhibiting the mathematical law of vi-
bration, and on the other the ethical effects
enjoyed by Individual Intelligences.
This mathematical principle and these eth-
ical effects of Adjustment are illustrated
when two birds mate for life. On the mathe-
matical side we have simply a certain ratio of
vibratory correspondence in the physical and
spiritual organisms of the two birds. On the
individual side there obtains that recognition
NATURE'S PURPOSE
of such Adjustment which is, in effect, con-
tent to the intelligence of the birds. Birds, so
mated, do not separate. They have fulfilled
the Universal principle of vibratory corre-
spondence. They have attained those indi-
vidual results which satisfy their intelligence.
They have reached Adjustment in bird life.
Chemical particles obtain equilibrium, or
vibratory correspondence, in their electro-
magnetic energies. That equilibrium, or cor-
respondence, or chemical affinity, cannot be
defined as ethical, since it includes neither in-
dividual sensation, perception nor enjoyment.
Such unions and such effects are but the faint
foreshadowings of those which obtain in the
kingdom of Man under the same principle.
The values and effects of chemical life and
chemical activities are but the suggestion of
those infinitely richer values and effects of
human life and human Intelligence. While
the principle of Affinity operates Universally
the same, the ethical effects of that principle,
in value, variety and enjoyment are limited to
the Soul Life Element alone.
Perfect Affinity in chemical substances
merely amounts to a cohesion of Individual
85
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
particles. That perfect cohesion simply con-
stitutes physical solidity and durability. It
may also induce color or transparency and
brilliancy, as in the diamond, simply physical
effects, as far as observation goes. Neither
here nor in vegetable affinities do we find
effects which may be termed Ethical. With
the induction of the Soul Life Element and
the appearance of Self-Conscious Intelli-
gence, the ethics of life begin. When Nature
has guided the Individual to the point of a
self-conscious participation in the scheme of
Nature, ethical phenomena are evoked.
The animal is endowed with an Individual
Intelligence and impulse to seek its Affinities.
It has also the Intelligence and the Will to
repulse that which is not harmonic with it-
self. As a result, the animal kingdom is con-
ducted by Nature along the mathematical
lines of vibratory correspondences, and by
the Individual animal along the lines of an
Individual Satisfaction.
Animal affinities and unions range, in their
individual values and effects, from a tempo-
rary union and temporary satisfaction, to per-
86
NATURE'S PURPOSE
manent union and permanent satisfaction, in
the animal kingdom.
In its conjugal habits the jackal mates and
separates with little Intelligence and with but
a fleeting suggestion of satisfaction. On the
other hand, the enduring conjugal relations
of two lions represents a complete and endur-
ing satisfaction on the part of the lions.
It is not until the Soul Life Element has
been added to the powers of Individual In-
telligence, that the physical body is com-
pleted. The Intelligence is now inspired by
the Soul Life Element. The Soul Life Ele-
ment makes new demands. New energies,
new requirements, and new capacities have
been added to lower energies, requirements
and capacities. The operator of a physically
perfected organism has a new and a higher
line of achievement than the operator of the
incomplete animal organism.
Man, by reason of this physically perfected
body and the inspiration of the Soul Life
Element, moves into greater activities and
greater necessities. Animal activities and sat-
isfactions do not meet the requirements of a
Soul.
87
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
From this it must appear that human life is
rich in ethical effects. That which so largely
increases the ethical effects of man are the
satisfactions which reside in the Soul. Man
enjoys all the lower satisfactions of the ani-
mal. He is capable of a purely animal con-
tent. The demands and capacities of the Soul
create activities and a class of necessities
which represent the ethical satisfactions of
human Intelligence. The content of the ani-
mal rests upon perfect correspondence in
those Life Elements of which he is made up.
With man, the struggle is to satisfy the In-
telligence. The lower elements have no
power permanently to satisfy the higher.
The energies and offices of the lower do not
satisfy human Intelligence. Those energies
and offices influence but they do not govern
the Evolution of man.
Feeding and breeding consume a large part
of human life. They are nevertheless but
incidents to Intelligent development, just as
the feeding of coal into a locomotive is but an
incident to the purpose sought. Impulses
born of the lower elements are continually
mistaken for the necessities of the highest cle-
NATURE'S PURPOSE
ment. Sooner or later the Intelligence per-
ceives its error and renews its search for per-
manent satisfaction.
The Ethics of Life are represented in the
efforts of Intelligent Individuals to effect the
Purpose through harmonic relations which
satisfy the Intelligence. The word "ethical"
applies only to those experiences which ac-
crue to an Individual Soul during its Strug-
gle for Self-Completion.
The Mathematics of Evolution are repre-
sented in Nature's Purpose to accomplish this
result through vibratory correspondences in
the physical and spiritual organisms of Intel-
ligent beings.
The processes by which these Purposes are
wrought out furnish Natural Science the key
to this marvelous upward movement in Na-
ture which we term Evolution.
Evolution represents a stupendous mathe-
matical design. It discloses an Intelligent
hiode of operation. It foreshadows a sublime
ethical Purpose.
Nature's plan involves a Purpose. The
Universal activities look to something more
than a physically improved or even a spir-
89
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
itually improved being. The Principle which
operates to improve all of Nature's products
has an ultimate Purpose in view. That Pur-
pose is faintly foreshadowed in the mineral
and in the plant. It is revealed in the animal.
It must be consummated in man. Natural
Science, therefore, holds:
That evolution is the expression of Intelli-
gent Principles.
That evolutionary processes conserve an
Intelligent Purpose.
That Nature seeks to fulfill that Purpose
under one general principle which refines
matter and increases its vibratory action.
That man is the highest expression of Na-
ture's great plan, and is the nearest approach
to Nature's ultimate Purpose.
Man is found to be the highest product of
Nature on either plane of life and activity.
It is found that it is he who accelerates or
impedes his own progress under Nature's
plan. It is Man alone who hastens or delays
Individual fulfillment of Nature's ultimate
Purpose.
CHAPTER VIII
MAN
Nature furnishes no higher known
type in physical form than man.
In the Soul Life Element we find the
causes of differentiation between man and
animal. Here are the factors which confer
Capacities for greater happiness and at the
same time the capacity for greater suffer-
ing. Here are the higher powers which
impose Individual Responsibility and invoke
penalties when such responsibility is evaded.
All of the Individual and voluntary activi-
ties of man are set in motion by the Intelli-
gent Ego, the Soul. This is in conformity
to the Universal Law which leaves the gov-
ernment of each kingdom to the energies of
its highest element.
The Soul is the governing entity. While it
is true that the involuntary affinities of lower
nature have their influence, they do not con-
trol the life of man. The vegetable kingdom
91
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
is controlled by the energies of the vito-chem-
ical life element. Though the plant embraces
electro-magnetic energies, they are not the
energies which produce the phenomena of
vegetable life. The same is true of animal
life. The animal is governed by the spiritual
life element. While the organs of digestion
and the bone, blood and tissue of the physical
body manifest the energies of electro-mag-
netic and vito-chemical life, these energies
do not give rise to nor control animal life.
The animal brain and the Individual animal
Will and Desire are expressions of a higher
life element. In the same way, the kingdom
of man is controlled by the energies and po-
tencies of the Soul Life Element.
Man is something vastly more than all of
the elements, energies and affinities which go
to make up mineral, vegetable and animal
life. He is something more than an organism
which manifests the activities of the electro-
magnetic and the vito-chemical life elements.
He is also something more than an animal in-
telligence, consciously seeking to gratify
his appetites and passions. He is more than
92
MAN
mere bone, blood and tissues. He is more
than appetites and passions.
Man is a Soul, with powers, capacities and
necessities beyond all of the Life Elements
which lie below him. He is a rational entity
who inhabits and operates a physical body.
He is not the maker, but he is the governor of
that body. He has the power to injure or im-
prove that physical body. He has the power
to leave it at any moment he desires.
These are the facts which show that the
Individual, Intelligent activities of human
life are governed by the Soul, the operating
entity.
When an Intelligent Soul operates through
the mediumship of the physical body, the
physical brain, and the physical sensory or-
gans, those resultant activities are classified
as "physical"; also, all forms of voluntary
physical exercise and muscular effort, includ-
ing physical sport and physical labor.
When an Intelligent Soul operates directly
upon the spiritual plane through the me-
diumship of the spiritual organism, the spir-
itual brain, and the spiritual sensory organs,
those resultant activities are classified as
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
"spiritual." These are the activities in which
a Master engages when he voluntarily uses
his spiritual sensory organs to study spiritual
phenomena, or when he leaves the physical
body to travel upon the spiritual planes.
When a Soul exercises its highest activities
the resultant phenomena can only be classi-
fied as "psychical." They are so classified
in that they transcend those activities which
are unmistakably physical and those which
are unmistakably spiritual in their nature.
There are certain operations of Intelligence
which appear to take no note of matter, either
physical or spiritual; as, the exercise of pure
reason and abstract thought. Neither is there
anything in the consciousness of loving, nor
in the conception of moral principles which
we can associate with, or mistake for, either
physical or spiritual activities. The activity
of love and the development of morality
clearly transcend the limitations of physical
and spiritual activities as classified by Nat-
ural Science.
The operating Soul governs each and all of
the activities themselves. To the Soul we
MAN
must look for the factors and causes of the
evolution of man.
By a normal and steady development upon
the physical plane a Soul strengthens and im-
proves its physical instrument, refining it in
particle and increasing its vibratory action.
By inertia or inactivity the physical organism
is left unimproved and undeveloped. In this
case man remains as close to the animal plane
as is possible for a human being. If a Soul
perverts the physical laws of being he not
only fails to improve, but he falls to the level
of the brute. If a Soul indulges in abnormal
physical development, its intuitions are
dulled, its moral perceptions are blunted.
The average prize fighter develops an abnor-
mally strong physical body with correspond-
ingly strong appetites and passions. This he
does at the expense of his mental, moral,
spiritual and psychical natures.
What is true of physical development is
analogously true of spiritual development. A
man may subject his physical body to rigid
asceticism. He may render his physical or-
ganism entirely passive. He may control his
appetites and eliminate his passions. He may
95
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
thus develop the spiritual organism. He may
revel in the sights, sounds and beauties of the
spiritual world. He may hold daily com-
munication with spiritual people. That very
process, abnormal in its severity, may weaken
the physical body and destroy the physical
brain.
What is true of the physical body and spir-
itual body is analogously true of the Soul it-
self. It is possible for a Soul, during earthly
life, to concentrate its powers unduly upon
the plane of pure Intelligence. In this case,
we find an Individual who neglects the phys-
ical activities of life for the pleasure he finds
in the activities of abstraction and specula-
tion. Such a man becomes the speculative
philosopher, or the average metaphysician.
He is an Intelligence who expends his ener-
gies in dealing with ideas. To such a man the
struggle for nutrition is of little moment. His
appetites and passions have little influence
over his life. Wealth and worldly position
are disregarded. The practical duties of life
are neglected. Even the aesthetic pleasures
fail to touch him. Such a man is as narrow
MAN
and unequal in his development as the prize
fighter or the Yogi.
A Soul may concentrate all of its energies
in any one of the several activities which rep-
resent the psychical plane. For it must be
understood that a Soul has many distinct
pov^ers which are to be used for different
purposes.
Soul powers embrace the phenomena of
reason, memory, comparison, calculation, ab-
straction and introspection.
A Soul may cultivate or neglect its own
powers just as it may cultivate or neglect its
physical body or its spiritual body.
Everybody knows that a man may culti-
vate the muscles of one arm and neglect those
of the other. He may train one hand to skill-
ful labor, leaving the other unskilled. He
may excel as a pedestrian and lack strength
in both his arms. A man may cultivate one
or more of the physical sensory organs,
neglecting the others.
A musician may develop a fine sense of
sound and yet be unable to distinguish the
primary colors. He may cultivate the sense
of taste and neglect that of hearing. The mu-
97
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
sician, the painter, the epicure, are examples
of cultivation in the several senses of hearing,
sight and taste.
In the same way an Intelligent Soul may
develop or neglect its powers. A man may
give himself to abstraction, meditation and
introspection. At the same time he may
wholly neglect the activities of love, friend-
ship and altruism. He may acquire knowl-
edge and ignore both morality and justice.
A Soul may expend its energies in love,
friendship and altruism, wholly neglecting
the exercise of reason and the acquirement of
knowledge. A Soul may pervert its powers
into evil, ambition, greed, jealousy, envy and
hate. In this case we find that character of
degeneracy which is far more deplorable
than a diseased physical body or a degenerate
physical brain.
Self-invited moral degeneracy, abnormal
development, and perversions are of the
Soul, and can be overcome only by the Soul
itself.
The Individuality of a man is the manifes-
tation of an Intelligent Soul. It is the im-
98
MAN
pression which such an Intelligence makes
upon another Intelligence.
The Personality of a man is the material
manifestation of a Soul, as we contact it
through its physical or spiritual instrument.
It is the impression which the external ap-
pearance, habits and manners of one Individ-
ual make upon another Individual.
Individuality has to do with a Soul only.
Personality has to do with the material
manifestations of that Individual Soul only.
An Intelligent Soul is equipped with the
instruments necessary for communication
with both the physical and the spiritual
worlds of matter. If it does not always so
communicate, science has at least demon-
strated that it possesses the necessary instru-
ments and may do so under proper condi-
tions. The activities of a Soul, wherever
they are normally manifested, whether in the
world of physical matter or in that of spir-
itual matter, are intelligent in their opera-
tions.
With these facts clearly in mind, it will be
understood that whenever reference is made
to the physical nature of man, the term "phys-
99
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
teal" includes the physical body with all of
its sensory organs, properties, activities and
functions.
Whenever reference is made to the spir-
itual nature of man, the term "spiritual" in-
cludes the spiritual body, with all of its sen-
sory organs, properties, activities and func-
tions.
Whenever reference is made to the psy-
chical nature of man, the term "psychical" in-
cludes the Ego, the Soul, or Essential Entity,
with all its faculties, capacities and powers.
In the lower grades of human life the in-
dividual acts of men appear, and are, almost
an unbroken series of blunders and perver-
sions as to the general Laws of Nature.
Nevertheless, man is pursuing the only path
possible to an independent, rationalized In-
telligence.
The primitive man resembles the child
emerging from the unreasoning state of in-
fancy. Indeed, child life as clearly repre-
sents the Evolution of Individual Intelli-
gence as the prenatal development of the
physical body of the child represents the
processes of physical Evolution.
100
MAN
Human infancy is clearly analogous to the
animal stage of Intelligence. It is character-
ized by the same passions and emotions, fear,
anger, jealousy, etc., which move the animal.
As with the animal, so the infant lacks the
rational Powers and the moral Capacities
which give dignity and value to adult human
Intelligence.
With the dawning of its Reason the child
clearly represents that evolutionary stage
where the prepared animal organism inspired
the Soul Life Element and became the ra-
tional, living Entity. During the childhood,
whether of a man or a race, life is a succes-
sion of experiments, mistakes, penalties and
apparent penalties. A race, just as a man,
must learn the nature and effects of Law and
the transgression of Law, by independent ex-
periment.
A child generally learns the nature and ef-
fects of fire through wilful meddling with it.
To the burned child, fire appears to be an
evil. Man knows it is an essential to life and
when rightly understood and controlled a
beneficent provision in the natural order. It
would be difficult to teach the child this truth.
101
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Unable to exercise Reason, and smarting from
the burn, he would naturally feel that fire is
hostile to comfort and the pursuit of Hap-
piness.
This is the seemingly hard path of human
development. It is the only path for a child
or a man or a race of men. Natural Science
declares this path to be only seemingly hard.
This is said with confidence, for the end and
the fruit of all this experiment and suffering
are compensation to a Soul, full and com-
plete.
102
CHAPTER IX
MAN AND MAMMAL
Though physical science asserts it as a
fact, it is not able to show that man, even
physically, is an animal only removed from
the ape in point of time and additional feed-
ing and breeding. Physically, man is an ani-
mal. Structurally, he is related to the ape.
However, he is not an ape either physically,
structurally, mentally or morally.
Though the ape appears to be a rudimen-
tary man, he is not a man. There are differ-
ences physiologically, as well as mentally and
morally, between the highest ape and the
lowest human thus far discovered.
It must be remembered that actual proof
of Darwin's theory rests upon this still "miss-
ing link." Until this is found, the whole
elaborate theory means nothing in science.
Even in a physical sense Darwinism fails to
bridge the gulf between animal and man.
Since the writings of Darwin physical sci-
103
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ence has discovered a most interesting and
important fact which bears directly upon this
point. It is now discovered that the brain
measurements of men and monkeys disclose
a radical difference in actual quantity. Be-
tween the highest type monkey and the lowest
type man the balance of actual brain matter
is largely on the side of man. The ratio of
difference is about 60 to 100.
More than this, man, one of the weaker
mammals, is born unclothed, and practically
defenseless from the elements and the stronger
animals. From birth to death man is the one
being who must live, attain, enjoy or suffer
in the exact ratio of his own independent and
rational self-development.
The resemblances between the higher apes
and low type men are distinct enough logi-
cally to show the physical relationship. If
we were to compare an ape and a man, merely
as physical organisms, the Darwinian theory
would have much weight. The moment we
compare an ape and a man as individual en-
tities that moment the theory fails.
The distinction between man and animal
104
MAN AND MAMMAL
is the absolutely impassable gulf of rational
and moral capacity.
Thus far physical science has discovered
no natural link between an Intelligent Being
endowed with the higher capacities of the
Soul Element and one that is not. In the
very lowest reaches of human society the
child is born with capacities which no animal
possesses, capacities for rational and moral
development. In this particular the lowest
human transcends the highest animal just as
the nucleated life cell transcends vegetable
substance in its energies and capacities.
The demarcation between the lowest hu-
man and the highest animal is even more
distinct than that between the lichen and the
rock, or between low animal forms and cer-
tain vegetable growths.
It is true that an undeveloped human re-
sembles an animal. It is also true that he
may live on indefinitely, looking mainly to
appetites and passions for his satisfactions.
The neglect of rrjoral development reduces
man below the animal, so far as external con-
duct and habit arc concerned. The very fact
that he does possess the power of individual
105
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
reason, means that he has the capacity to dis-
regard general principles, choose his own
course, and thus apparently fall below the
level of the brute.
Nevertheless, the low type human—unlike
the ape—may at any stage of beastliness and
degradation, rise from that condition to one
of rational and moral life. By force of the
inherent powers of the Soul he may at any
time abandon animalism and assume the
higher role of the human. Proofs of this are
those facts which show the rapid develop-
ment of low born children under civilized
systems.
If man were an improved animal, two
conditions would obtain:
The earth would teem with hybrids, phys-
ical, mental and moral. There would exist an
infinite series of experiments between apes
and men, entities which could be classified as
neither animals nor men.
Low type men could no more be suddenly
raised to rational and moral standards by
highly developed systems, than could the ape.
Neither of these conditions obtains, but
the reverse is the fact.
106
MAN AND MAMMAL
The link is still missing. Nature does not
furnish hybrid types. There are animals re-
sembling humans. There are humans resem-
bling animals. Nobody has discovered a nor-
mal type that it can not easily assign to the
animal or the human kingdom. The fact re-
mains that monkeys and men, though unques-
tionably related, are yet distinct products of
Nature. If the evolution from the ape to
man w^ere a mere matter of degree, the chasm
which nov^ exists between them would be
filled with hybrid types, with crossings and
recrossings of that which could be classified
as neither ape nor man.
Physical science has no difficulty in distin-
guishing men from apes. One is distinctly
human and the other is distinctly animal.
No amount of culture will raise the chim-
panzee to the rational and moral plane of
man. Every normal human infant is suscep-
tible to both rational and moral development.
Negro children, offspring of the lowest
full blood Africans, show remarkable devel-
opment under a system of education. That
advance is as marked physically as it is intel-
lectually and morally. The first generation
107
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
shows an improved head, enlarged brain and
modified features. The physical animal re-
semblances are wonderfully modified, while
the mental and moral superiority to low type
parents appears magical.
By reason of this Soul element the en-
ergies and activities of man are fundamen-
tally superior to the energies and activities of
the animal. The Darwinian theory lacks the
one important link which alone could verify
its elaborate speculation. That link is still
missing. Neither physical science nor any
other science has discovered or will discover
such link between man and the ape. It does
not exist in this world.
Does it not seem singular that a science
which recognizes the fundamental diflfer-
ences between a rock, a tree and an animal,
fails to recognize the same fundamental dif-
ferences between a Plato, a Shakespeare, a
Darwin and an Ape?
Man is a mammal and something more.
He is a Soul, endowed with Self-Conscious-
ness, the Consciousness of other selves, with
Reason and Memory, Will and Desire.
IM
CHAPTER X
MAN AND WOMAN
Up to this time physical science has not
discovered the Individual Man and the In-
dividual Woman in Nature. It deals with
man only as he is related to species. It
has not discovered nor analyzed nor ex-
plained those inseparable Intelligences, the
Individual Man and Woman. We have in
science "male" and "female" only.
A moral philosophy, based upon physical
science, has gone one step farther. It discov-
ers a "mother." It perceives a scientific and
an ethical value in the reproductive capacity
of the female. Neither physical materialism
nor theological materialism has recognized
Man and Woman as Individual Intelligences,
having a scientific and ethical value as such
in Nature.
Physical materialism is concerned with
the preservation of species.
Moral philosophy based upon physical sci-
109
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ence is concerned with the creation of a
family.
Nature is concerned with the Completion
of an Individual.
Darwin discovered the "male" and "fe-
male" in Nature.
Drummond discovered the "mother."
Natural Science discovered "man" and
"woman."
Natural Science, that recognizes the Intel-
ligent Soul, as well as the physical organs of
reproduction in woman, declares that she is
an Intelligent Being, having a place in Na-
ture, a part to perform in life, and a destiny
to fulfill, that are Individual to herself here
and hereafter. It takes into account the spir-
itual and psychical as well as the physical
nature of woman. It recognizes the Intelli-
gent activities of the Soul, as well as the phys-
ical functions of the body. It analyzes her
intellectual and moral capacities, as well as
her physical capacities for reproduction.
Taking these into account. Natural Science
analyzes the feminine Struggle for Self Com-
pletion, by and through the study of those
110^
MAN AND WOMAN
Life Elements which are operated by the
feminine principle of Intelligence.
Everything that represents the receptive,
absorbing and pacific capacities of the Life
Elements is termed "feminine." Evolution
upon the feminine side of Nature, includes
v^hat are commonly termed in physical sci-
ence the negative properties in Nature. The
word "negative," however, is inadequate as
a definition of the "feminine" in Nature.
Though feminine nature may be called nega-
tive to the masculine, it is not a negation in
Nature. It is, instead, a very definite capac-
ity, the capacity to receive and absorb. The
feminine nature represents the capacities for
absorption and non-resistance.
Evolution, under the feminine principle in
Nature, includes the receptive, absorbing,
nourishing and non-resistant entity of each
kingdom in Nature:
The mineral atom which is receptive to a
positive atom, or to the atom positively
charged with electro-magnetism.
The receptive and absorbing particles and
parts of vegetable substance which receive
111
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
and reproduce that which is generated by the
positive male particles or parts.
The female animal which is receptive, ab-
sorbing and nourishing in its nature. It is
also non-resistant to the positive and domi-
nating energy and Will of the intelligent
male animal.
Woman who is physically, spiritually and
psychically receptive to the positive, phys-
ical, spiritual and psychical forces of man.
Nature, history, religion and common ex-
perience support these deductions.
The physical receptivity of woman to man
is proven in maternity, which is the most pat-
ent fact in Nature.
The spiritual and psychical receptivity of
woman to man is revealed in the history of
civilization, of government, of art, of liter-
ature and of science. All of these reveal man
as the aggressive, organizing and creative
factor in human life. Even the history of re-
ligions shows where women find their sys-
tems of faith and ethical codes of life.
Woman accepts her religion from a Buddha,
a Moses, a Christ, and even from a Moham-
med and a Pope.
112
MAN AND WOMAN
These are facts to which a certain type of
feminine vanity may not be ready to yield.
They are facts which, when fully recognized,
will serve better to explain woman's real ca-
pacity, the capacity of the receptive, absorb-
ing and pacific elements in human life.
This non-resistant nature of woman sub-
jects her to deplorable injustice. Her weaker
body and Will are dominated by man, who
has not learned the uses and the purposes of
strength in Nature.
It is the masculine mind that projects edu-
cational systems which exclude woman, thus
retarding her intellectual development. It is
man who gives to woman even her systems of
faith, enacting canons that bind both her rea-
son and her conscience. All this man does in
ignorance of the mutual relation and office of
the sexes. These are the penalties which he
inflicts upon himself through woman. These
are the errors of his ignorance. These are the
burdens woman bears until she rises to a ra-
tional conception of her own place in Nature,
and develops the strength to maintain that
place.
Masculinity is one thing, femininity is an-
us
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Other. Every product in Nature must, of
necessity, represent one or the other of Na-
ture's dual powers, positive or receptive en-
ergy. That cleavage which obtains among
unconscious mineral atoms and vegetable
particles, which appears with organic life
and which characterizes the human, is an
eternal and unchangeable cleavage. As far
as Natural Science can determine the relation
of positive and receptive, of male and female,
and of man and woman, is unchangeable.
The same division of mankind which ob-
tains in this world exists in the next. The
same attractions and co-operations persist
upon both planes of life.
That which is masculine and that which
is feminine never lose their essential qual-
ities of positive and receptive energy. Man
and woman may come into a better adjust-
ment in their mutual relation. They cannot
exchange places, nor become the same thing.
There is assimilation, but there is never ex-
change nor transformation in the basic ele-
ments of masculine and feminine nature.
There may be an increasing intellectual com-
prehension of each other's qualities. There
114
MAN AND WOMAN
are closer vibratory correspondences upon
the material plane and closer harmonics
upon the psychical plane.
There is never a stage of development, so
far as is known, where the Soul loses sex,
where man ceases to be man, where woman
ceases to be woman, in those essential qual-
ities of positive and receptive energy.
Unmeasured time has been consumed by
the human race in arriving at our present
stage of physical, spiritual and psychical sex
development. Unmeasured time has been
consumed in arriving at our present intellec-
tual comprehension of the laws of sex, and
the reciprocal relations, powers, capacities
and possibilities of man and woman. We
have reached that stage of development which
admits of a rational conception of the scien-
tific relationship of the masculine and the
feminine. We have risen to a degree of in-
tellectual development which admits of a
practical effort to meet the requirements of
the law of sex.
The initial phase of sex, as seen in the posi-
tive and receptive character of mineral atoms,
is accentuated in each higher kingdom. Each
lis
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
additional life element gives rise to new
powers and capacities and new variations.
They are only variations of the same positive
and receptive energies of the masculine and
feminine elements. Each added life element
reinforces masculinity in its positive, ag-
gressive, generative, and organizing powers.
Each added life element also reinforces fem-
ininity in its receptive, absorbing, nourishing
and pacific capacities.
The atom and man represent the extremes
of evolution upon the physical plane. Com-
pare, for example, the positive and receptive
powers and capacities of two mineral atoms
with the same essential powers and capacities
of a highly developed man and woman. Con-
sider the addition to the original values in
form, nature, powers, capacities and achieve-
ments. Compare the strength and tenacity
of the attracting forces which bind two min-
eral atoms and those which bind two Intelli-
gent human beings of opposite polarity.
Separate the two mineral atoms by the frac-
tion of an inch, and the force of their attrac-
ti(jn is overcome. Each particle is ready to
unite with another particle of opposite polar-
116
MAN AND WOMAN
ity. This is the limit of the attracting force
of electro-magnetism.
How is it with man and woman who have
once experienced that superior attraction
which obtains only in the realm of an Intel-
ligent Soul?
Such as these never separate in that realm.
Such attraction as this includes also an attrac-
tion in all lower and lesser elements. Let these
two be separated by the limits of earth and
that bond exists. Let them be separated by
every bar which custom, law, convention or
circumstance may erect, that tie remains un-
broken. Let time and death intervene, even
then these two are bound by the natural Law
of Affinity.
This is union which is superior to space,
time and circumstance. This represents the
attracting energies of a Soul, as compared
with those of the mineral atom. When so
compared that feeble attraction and cohesion
between mineral atoms of opposite polarity
is scarcely a suggestion of the attraction and
union between a Self-Conscious, positive Will
of an Intelligent Masculine Soul, and a Self-
117
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Conscious, absorbing Desire of an Intelligent
Feminine Soul.
Universally man is attracted to the recep-
tive qualities in woman. His aggressive In-
telligence, as well as his stronger physical
nature, seeks its Polar opposite. He seeks
those absorbing and pacific capacities of In-
telligence, rather than those which are ag-
gressively forceful. Universally woman is
attracted to the strength, the courage and the
power of man. It does not matter whether
those qualities appear as physical, spiritual
or psychical.
These facts and these principles do not
argue an inferiority of woman to man, nor
of man to woman. Thus to interpret the mas-
culine and feminine in Nature is as foolish as
to debate the relative merits of heat and light
in the economy of Nature. Man and woman
represent the two indispensable and vital
factors in the evolution of man. While they
differ in offices, powers, capacities and attain-
ments, they are essentially equal and one in
their purpose.
The struggle for nutrition furnishes a
modicum of employment to Aggressive Mas-
118
MAN AND WOMAN
culine Intelligence. It does not furnish him
with Satisfaction or Content. It absorbs
energies which he would gladly employ in
other lines of activity. Maternity furnishes a
modicum of employment for pacific Femi-
nine Intelligence. It does not develop her In-
telligence. Woman's rational development
proceeds in spite of and not by reason of
maternity.
"A flower is created for reproduction.
When its usefulness is over it returns to the
dust." Thus declares the moralist when he
would illustrate the uses of the female in
Nature.
Not so, declares Natural Science, turning
to Nature for corroboration.
A flower, like a woman, is an Entity, an
Individual created for life. While it lives
its bloom, its beauty and its fragrance are its
own. While it lives it absorbs life from its
natural elements, earth, air and water. While
it lives it reaches toward the sun, its source
of being. While it lives its Individual
charms are a contribution and a blessing to
the world. A flower, like a woman, is an
Individual representative of Universal Ele-
119
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ments and Principles having a capacity for
reproduction.
If reproduction were the sole purpose of
the female, Nature has certainly wasted time.
The normal reproductive period of woman is
about half of her natural physical life. If
this function covered the purpose of the fe-
male in Nature, then Nature has unduly
wasted time and energy. If this is the vital
issue of woman's life, then the Individual
woman cheats Nature. It does not need sci-
ence to prove that woman persists very defi-
nitely and Individually long after her repro-
ductive usefulness is past. Not only this, but
she persists under the conviction that she has
not outlived her usefulness, that she has a
place in Nature and in society. She con-
tinues to Desire life. Her Intelligence still
occupies itself with plans arjd purposes that
are Individual. Her nature is still suscept-
ible to an Individual Love. Her Soul still
yearns for an Individual Completion—Hap-
piness.
While it is true that the process of repro-
duction binds woman to her children, this
does not mean that the intelligent needs and
lao
MAN AND WOMAN
requirements of the Feminine Soul are ful-
filled and satisfied in those children.
The key to this process and this purpose is
found in that immutable principle of Affinity
between the Positive and the Receptive
energies in Nature. The attraction between
man and woman is the key to all other attrac-
tions. The union of one man and one woman
represents the principle of all other unions.
A harmonic relation between one man and
one woman rests upon the conditions which
govern all harmonics.
Upon man and woman, as the mathemat-
ical center of all vibrations and the Ethical
center of all influences, the harmonics of hu-
man life depend.
The efforts made by the Individual man
and woman to reach this state of completion
is defined as The Struggle For Happiness.
The vibratory affinities which characterize
this progressive struggle constitute the Har-
monics of Evolution.
We find illiterate women who are strange-
ly cunning and resourceful. We find highly
developed women whose diplomacy and tact
are the wonder of the masculine mind.
121
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Though her receptive Intelligence and weak-
er Will leave woman the subject of mascu-
line aggressiveness, at the same time they
equip her to outwit brutality with cunning,
and to disarm tyranny with tact. "Cunning"
and "tact" are the especial subtle devices by
which feminine Intelligence guards feminine
weakness and circumvents masculine Will
and Logic. This ready weapon of "woman's
wit" has, from the beginning, served her
when opposed to masculine strength, mascu-
line Will and masculine Reason.
How unlike are the methods of men and
women, irrespective of time, race or devel-
opment. Man, whether pursuing his ten-
dency for war, whether engaged in commer-
cial, political or scholastic pursuits, brings to
bear all of the aggressive elements of his na-
ture. Even in his Desire for love, as well as in
war, the masculine method is bold, self-as-
sertive and imperious. It is a Universal Prin-
ciple and not a social custom nor a legal code
that impels the Individual man to seek the
woman of his own choosing, and impels the
Individual woman to wait for his coming.
There are exceptions to the general law of
122
MAN AND WOMAN
sex. There are abnormal men and women.
There are "degenerates" of both sexes. There
are many curious perversions. There are
honest fanatics and foolish experimenters.
These are quickly classified and removed
from the ranks of those the world calls "nor-
mal men and women."
It is the masculine mind which particu-
larly governs the rational development of
marriage. The feminine quality of Intelli-
gence more particularly operates to develop
the love relation. Man represents conquest
by force, psychically as well as physically.
Woman represents achievement by non-resist-
ance, psychically as well as physically. The
masculine mind is the organizing factor of so-
ciety. It does not matter what the motive,
nor how those organizations are maintained.
The gradual rise of the familial clan, com-
munity and state, is due to masculine Will
sustained by masculine physical force.
Woman is the receptive factor, not only in
legal marriage, but in all social organization.
True to her non-resistant nature, she occupies
herself with her maternal duties and in the
close personal relations of life. Man seeks to
123
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
gratify his nature through organization and
rational compacts with other men. Woman
depends almost entirely upon her personal
influence in the personal relations. Though
deprived of legal power in person, in will and
in estate, woman has not been powerless. The
earliest lesson she learned was the potency of
her sex, the strength of non-resistance. From
the savage slave woman to the noblest lady
of the land, woman employs the sex relations
to effect personal achievements. In this
woman trades. Through this she matches
masculine ferocity and defies masculine codes
of law. In this she influences marriage.
Back of the minor functional struggles of
both animal and human life stand the eternal
co-operations of positive and receptive indi-
viduals, male and female, and Man and
Woman. Back of the competitions of nutri-
tion and the sacrifices of reproduction stand
the affinities and fulfillments which are mu-
tually enjoyed by Individual Intelligence.
Back of all lesser struggles, competitions,
compulsions and sacrifices exist the eternal
co-operations of Nature's divided forces, male
and female, Man and Woman.
124
CHAPTER XI
WILL AND DESIRE
Man represents the Intelligent Power of
Will in Nature. Woman represents the In-
telligent Capacity of Desire. In the essential
natures the male animal and man correspond,
as do the female animal and woman. Man
and woman, as representatives of the Soul
element, are almost infinitely stronger in both
the Power of Will and the Capacity of De-
sire. When the Intelligent animal Will and
Desire have been reinforced by the Soul Life
Element they display powers and capacities
unknown to the animal.
When animal Intelligence has been ration-
alized by the induction of the Soul element,
we have then an individual, rational Will
and an individual rational Desire, as the
Power and Capacity in the evolution of
man.
Every normal, physical entity, risen to the
point of an Individual Intelligence, represents
m
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
cither the positive principle of Intelligence
which we define as "Will," or the receptive
principle which we define as "Desire." Not
until the powers and capacities of an Intelli-
gent Soul are added to animal Intelligence
are there what we define as the "Rational
Will" and "Rational Desire." Universally
the positive male entity is the generator of
life and the organizer of forces. Universally
the receptive feminine entity is the mother of
life and the conserver of forces. When the
stage of man arrives, we find man as the gen-
erator of physical human life and the organ-
izer of physical, spiritual and psychical
forces. We find woman the mother of phys-
ical, human life and the conserver of phys-
ical, spiritual and psychical forces. Univer-
sally the feminine entity is the willing co-
operator with the masculine entity in all of
his functions, occupations and activities.
The rclatif)n between the sexes is deter-
mined by the innate principles of positive
Will and receptive Desire. It is not a rela-
tion which has been evolved by the functions
of the body nor by man-made customs, codes,
and conventions. Man establishes himself as
126
WILL AND DESIRE
warrior, ruler and leader, by innate force of
Will. Woman establishes herself by the Ca-
pacity of Desire, as the most potent influence
in the life of the warrior, ruler and leader.
Man seeks achievement by force. Woman
seeks accomplishment through self-surren-
der. The one seeks to control, the other to
influence.
Each sex in itself illustrates infinite grada-
tions of Will Power. It is true that mascu-
line nature is positive to feminine nature as a
whole. Each sex embraces Individuals of
differing Powers which would make them
positive and negative to one another. There
are certain women who, in some respects, are
positive to certain men. The union of two
such Individuals is the most flagrant breach
of nature. This means discord without hope
of betterment. It means lifelong contempt
on the woman's side and unending humilia-
tion to the man.
The man who finds himself mated to either
an intellectual superior or one who disre-
gards his opinions, is humiliated and disap-
pointed. The woman who binds herself to a
127
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
mental inferior is equally disappointed and
disgusted.
The susceptibility of women to a stronger
Will Power obtains on all planes of life.
This is illustrated universally in all normal
conditions of human life. In savagery and
civilization women generally yield to men in
matters of both public and private control of
the state and the home. It is the masculine
Intelligence which furnishes laws, organizes
society and enforces obedience. Feminine In-
telligence universally submits to those laws
and sustains social organization by a passive
obedience. When the laws of men oppress
women, they have heretofore had no recourse
except gradually to improve masculine na-
ture through the power of pacific influence.
Even the high type women of the Anglo-
Saxon race yield to the Will of men, publicly
and privately. These women do not fear
physical violence. They yield simply because
men have the stronger Wills.
That principle in Individual nature which
impels one bird to seek another particular
bird as its mate, or which impels a man to
seek a particular woman as his wife, is the
12t
WILL AND DESIRE
principle which refutes selection by blind
and automatic processes. In the animal king-
dom this law of Individual preference is gov-
erned by the Intelligent Will and Intelligent
Desire of the male and female. In human
life this law of Individual preference is gov-
erned by the Intelligent, rational Will and
Intelligent, rational Desire of man and
woman. When the Individual Will and De-
sire of the animal have risen to the stage of
rationality, the law of Individual preference
is immeasurably strengthened. Here we have
something more than an Individual Will and
an Individual Desire moving in a certain di-
rection, bent upon a particular object. We
find instead, Will and Desire reinforced and
put into execution by rational calculation and
by a rational control of, and triumph over,
environment. To the extent that man brings
Rational Intelligence to bear upon sex selec-
tion, to that extent he rises above the animal
and demonstrates a higher evolution.
The ascetic who cheats nutrition and de-
feats reproduction illustrates the supremacy
of the individual Will over the demands
made by the physical functions. The martyr
129
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
who dies, rather than recant, and the soldier
who goes to death in battle, represent forces
that override the demands of physical nature.
They prove that there is something in man
even stronger than the physical "Struggle for
Nutrition."
The woman who dies of disappointed love
demonstrates that a Desire of the Soul may
outweigh the involuntary demands of either
nutrition or reproduction.
Evolution reveals another and a far greater
struggle in human nature than the struggle
for nutrition or the struggle for reproduc-
tion. It reveals a struggle conducted by In-
telligence through the medium of the brain,
as well as a struggle conducted automatically
by physical matter through the digestive or-
gans. Nature reveals the fact that the ration-
al Will and Desire of mankind are engaged
in a co-operative struggle for an object pecu-
liar to Intelligence alone. Man, as Will, and
woman, as Desire, are seeking other results
than those which pertain to nutrition and re-
production.
This fundamental struggle in human life
has for its final object neither species nor
ISO
WILL AND DESIRE
family, but instead, a state or condition of In-
telligence which we can define as ethical
only. This ethical condition, so eagerly
sought by mankind, is translated to human
Intelligence as an Individual satisfaction, an
Individual Content or an Individual Happi-
ness. These are attainments which accrue to
Individual Intelligence and have to do with
Individual human life only.
It follows, therefore, that the evolution of
man rests upon the Will and Desire of ra-
tional Intelligence. This evolution is an ex-
pression of the Will and Desire of Intelligent
entities, and not of blind physical forces.
The evolution of man, physically, spiritually
and psychically, involves:
The Universal Principle of Polarity or
affinity.
An individual free Will and Desire.
The Individual struggle of rational Intel-
ligence to exercise that Will and satisfy that
Desire.
Evolutionary processes are expressions of a
progressive struggle through and by which
individual Will and individual Desire reach
131
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
adjustment under the immutable principle of
Polarity.
Evolution accomplished, means the final
bringing of the rational Will of man and the
rational Desire of woman into full, free, and
Intelligent compliance with the unchangeable
laws of the universe.
Positive Will on one side and Receptive
Desire on the other constitute the principle
of Affinity between two Intelligent Souls of
opposite Polarity.
One represents progress by force of an In-
dividualized Intelligent Will. The other
represents progress through the capacities of
an Individualized Intelligent Desire.
Physical science has entirely overlooked
the psychical power of Individual Will and
the capacity of Individual Desire which un-
derlie the activities of Intelligent Human Be-
ings. It analyzes man and woman as func-
tions for feeding and breeding. It ignores
the Individual Will and the Individual De-
sire of Self-Conscious Independent Beings.
It fails to perceive that nutrition and repro-
duction in reality depend upon this Individ-
ual Will and this Individual Desire which
isa
WILL AND DESIRE
are forever seeking a purely Ethical Self-
Satisfaction.
Man does not only act upon feminine na-
ture. He receives as well. He does not alone
exert power, but receives that which modi-
fies power and gives rise to new ideas. The
relation of man and woman is not alone that
of aggressive Will acting upon passive De-
sire. It is a relation in which Will is softened
by Desire and Desire is strengthened by Will.
It is true that the positive never becomes
the receptive, even in intellectual life, nor the
contrary. Each receives from the other that
which adds to or strengthens the weaker part.
The savage Will of man is slowly tempered
and raised to manly courage. The stupid
Desire of the slave is slowly strengthened and
raised to womanly tenderness and grace.
Man loses his ferocity, not his power. Wo-
man loses her stupidity but not her pacific
nature. It is these ceaseless cooperations
which spiritualize the masculine mind and
rationalize the feminine.
Masculine Will inclines to the tyrannic
use of power. Feminine Desire inclines to
133
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
inertia and self-surrender. One is the error of
strength, the other that of weakness.
Perhaps no better definition can be found
for the aggressive spirit in which masculine
Intelligence seeks its own satisfaction than
the spirit of Conquest by Force, which stands
for war. Perhaps no better definition can be
found for the non-resistant spirit in which
feminine Intelligence seeks its own content
than the Spirit of Self-Surrender or Peace.
The masculine stands for acquirement and
conquest by force; the feminine represents
accomplishment by self-surrender.
Positive and unconscious energies of min-
eral and vegetable substance merge into the
positive conscious energies of animal intelli-
gence. These, re-enforced by the Soul Life
Element, give rise to the positive and aggres-
sive Will of man. On the receptive side of
Nature, the capacity of absorption increases
from the material receptivity of mineral and
vegetable atoms to the self-conscious Desire
of the woman.
1S4
CHAPTER XII
REASON AND INTUITION
Neither physical science nor speculative
philosophy accounts for the differing Intel-
lectual processes of Man and Woman.
Both agree that a difference exists. To
man is universally credited the stronger Ra-
tional powers, to woman the keener Intui-
tions.
What Reason is, and what Intuition is, are
problems not, as yet, solved by materialistic
science nor by speculative philosophies.
Physical science does fairly well when it de-
clares that physical effects have physical
causes. When it enters the domain of Intelli-
gence it becomes speculative.
Physical science, after accepting the diges-
tive organs as the cause of mental phenomena,
proceeds tolerably well in its analysis of
Reason. It traces fairly well the relation be-
tween certain physical causes and certain ra-
tional operations of the primitive mind, as
135
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
relates to things tangible and visible to the
physical senses.
It traces a relation between the rigors of
climate and the rational act of the savage who
constructs a hut for shelter. It traces cause
and rational effect when he converts the skins
of animals into clothing. It traces cause and
effect in the act of trapping an animal for
food purposes. Here the relation between the
physical necessity and the rational act is clear
and unmistakable.
There are, however, other phenomena con-
nected with physical acts which are not ex-
plainable on the same grounds.
By what operation of Intelligence, or for
what rational cause does the same savage
seek a certain class of foods? In this case he
acts from Desire, since neither the savage
himself nor physical science can rationally
explain the law governing the selection of
foods.
Those Intelligent methods which are ra-
tional are intelligible to Reason. As yet. Rea-
son has not satisfied itself as to the nature and
meaning of those Intelligent processes which
we define as Intuitive.
REASON AND INTUITION
Our Rational judgment of an IndividuaJ
may directly contradict our Intuitions con-
cerning him. Though Reason may find no
fault in him, Intuition may condemn him and
we may feel the man to be false or vicious
whose public life seems fair and honest. A
jury pronounces a man guilty upon the cir-
cumstantial, or what we would term the ra-
tional evidence. At the same time, every
member of that jury may have an Intuition of
the prisoner's innocence.
The accused may be acquitted upon the ra-
tional evidence, and yet, somehow, impress
every juryman with a feeling of his guilt.
Here we have the double process of Rea-
son and Intuition. Here are Rational and
Intuitive processes simultaneously moving an
Intelligent Soul to two diametrically oppo-
site decisions. And this is one of the common
experiences of daily life. At every turn, at
every stage of development, human Intelli-
gence deals with the opposite phenomena of
Reason and Intuition.
Each one of us recognizes in himself the
play of these two principles. We continual-
ly alternate between acts governed by Rea-
137
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
son and those governed by Intuition. We
trace the effects of these dual processes in all
acts that have been recorded as human his-
tory. We take note of them in all current af-
fairs, in the lives of our neighbors and ac-
quaintances, and in our own families.
The history of Intellectual development is
the history of Reason in apparent conflict
with Intuition. The achievements of man
are the combined results of both activities.
Human achievements, intellectually, are
measured by the proper exercise and balance
as between the two.
All of us understand our own Rational
processes. We know why we reach such or
such a Rational opinion. Most of us, how-
ever, are wholly at sea when we attempt to
analyze our own Intuitions. Most of us arc
confounded when we would explain that sub-
tle activity which so often contradicts and
overrides Reason and deflects us from our ra-
tional conclusions.
It is this activity of an Intelligent Soul
which refutes every theory of a mechanical
and physical basis of Intelligence. It is this
subtle activity which keeps an Individual
138
REASON AND INTUITION
man in touch with the spiritual world, and
fortifies even low grade Intelligence against
skepticism of spiritual things.
The Intelligence of this age demands of
science an explanation of these apparently
conflicting phenomena. The Intelligence of
man demands explanation of its own activ-
ities which shall coincide with the universal
experience of Intelligence itself. It rejects
those theories which separate human from
animal Intelligence by nothing except a
matter of additional feeding, breeding and
battle.
Physical science fails to demonstrate the
missing link between animal and human
minds, just as it does between animal and hu-
man organisms. Nature does not furnish
either hybrid physical or mental types.
If the kingdoms of Nature were not sepa-
rated by unlike life elements there would ob-
tain infinite variations and experiments in
the physical organism. As with the body so
with Intelligence. If the phenomena of In-
telligence were separated only by time and
experience, there would be mental types of
infinite variation between animal and man.
139
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
There would be no distinct line of demarca-
tion between them.
The Intelligence of an Entity is condi-
tioned to a rational and moral development,
or it is not. No animal infant has human
capacities of mind or of conscience. No nor-
mal human infant lacks those capacities.
Natural Science analyzes human Intelli-
gence in terms of the human kingdom rather
than in those of the animal Jcingdom. It gives
an intelligible explanation of what we term
"Reason" and what we know as "Intuition."
This it does in accordance with its knowl-
edge of two material organisms and two ma-
terial planes of vibratory action.
When a Soul operates upon the physical
plane it must employ the physical organs of
sensation. It must depend upon the reports
which are conveyed to it through the medium
of the physical nerves and the physical brain.
When operating upon the spiritual plane an
Intelligent Soul employs the spiritual organs
of sense and depends upon the reports con-
veyed through the spiritual nerves and spir-
itual brain.
When the physically embodied man uses
140
REASON AND INTUITION
the knowledge he has voluntarily acquired by
physical means as a basis of action, he is said
to exercise Reason. When he employs knowl-
edge acquired involuntarily by spiritual
means he is said to use Intuition.
Reason has to do with the voluntary ac-
quirement and exercise of knowledge, while
Intuition has to do with the involuntary
acquirement of knowledge from spiritual
planes.
Reason is a Soul's method of logical deduc-
tion. Intuition is spiritual perception.
The activities of man are based upon both
Reason and Intuition. It is man alone who
operates intelligently through both the phys-
ical and spiritual organs of sensation. Only
the human physical brain registers the vibra-
tions of physical matter with sufficient exact-
ness to enable a Soul to form independent
(or rational) judgments concerning those vi-
brations, and to shape his course accordingly.
All men and all women have the power
and capacity of Reason and Intuition. Both
men and women may receive Intuitions and
may form independent Rational concepts.
The coarser the physical body, the coarser
141
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
the spiritual body. The finer the physical
body the finer the spiritual body. The coarser
the physical body the less freely do the spir-
itual sensory organs receive and register the
vibrations of spiritual material.
Coarse physical conditions interfere with
the operations of the spiritual faculties.
A physically refined man experiences
keener Intuitions than the man who is phys-
ically gross.
By this same general law women, as a
class, are naturally more "spiritual" or In-
tuitive than men.
Certain of our modern writers have er-
roneously explained this operation of a Soul
through its spiritual sensory organs, as the
operations of a "sub-conscious self." This
gives an erroneous impression.
There is but one Conscious, Intelligent
Soul operating through two Material Or-
ganisms.
This process of Intelligence is, to the un-
trained, a super-conscious act; to the trained
student, the use of the spiritual senses con-
stitutes a perfectly conscious and rational
experience.
142
REASON AND INTUITION
The finer the physical organism of a man
or woman, the more nearly it approaches the
spiritual plane of vibrations, or, the more
Intuitional the Individual becomes.
Men and w^omen may, at v^ill, cultivate
either the Rational power or the Intuitional
capacity or both. They may, at will, neglect
both. Cultivation of the rational power to
the neglect of the intuitive capacity sharpens
the Intelligence in its a<:tivities upon the
physical plane. It exercises the physical
brain and strengthens it in the acquirement
of knowledge. Cultivation of the rational
power to the exclusion of the intuitive capac-
ity inclines an Individual Intelligence to
physical materialism. Dependence upon the
Intuitive capacity increases Intuition, but
leaves Reason undeveloped.
Dependence upon Intuition alone, pro-
motes superstition. The neglect of both proc-
esses of Intelligence means savagery and
stupidity.
Darwin furnishes the best possible illustra-
tion of Rational Intelligence, or of Intelli-
gence focused upon the physical plane, in
pursuit of knowledge of physical things.
143
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Here is Intelligence operating through the
physical senses and the physical only, and re-
fusing all aid and testimony of the Intuitions.
Here is rational Intelligence alone. As a re-
sult we have only facts of physical Nature,
and materialistic dogmas to account for those
facts.
Plato, Shakespeare, Emerson and, in fact,
all great Intelligences who have won the
greatest earthly fame as poets, philosophers
and divines, have been those who exercised
both Reason and Intuition. Such men illus-
trate the conscious exercise of Rational pow-
er and a conscious exercise of Intuitive ca-
pacity. Intelligence so balanced in its activ-
ities, inclines to the poetic and philosophic
thought.
There is still another order of Intelligence
possible to the earth plane. A man may ex-
ercise his Intelligence rationally upon both
planes of existence.
An Intelligent Soul physically and spir-
itually embodied, may self-develop to the
point where its processes upon both planes
are Self-Conscious and Rational. This illus-
trates the highest possible development of a
REASON AND INTUITION
physically embodied Intelligence. A Buddha
or a Christ illustrates such development.
Masculine Intelligence tends to Rational
development, w^hile feminine Intelligence
more generally employs Intuitive methods.
Intuitions translate themselves to Intelli-
gence as unaccountable impulses and emo-
tions, so that one v^ho acts from Intuition
instead of Reason is termed impulsive and
emotional. Such an Individual is quick to
feel attractions, to hate, to hope or to fear, but
is slow in framing reasons for such impulses
and such emotions.
Because of this relative difference in the
Intelligence, Woman comes to be regarded as
the emotional factor in the home and in so-
ciety, and Man acquires the distinction of
being the more rational element in social de-
velopment.
Women are looked upon as "sentimental,"
v^hile men pride themselves as being thor-
oughly "practical."
The Intellectual evolution of man and wo-
man is an expression of the positive and re-
ceptive energies and activities of all the Life
Elements. The Individual Man and Woman
145
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
represent the accumulated gains of all Evolu-
tion. The Individual Man and the Individual
Woman, as the independent exponents of
Reason and Intuition, represent the ascent of
Intelligence through all of the Life Ele-
ments.
Man as generator and woman as nourisher
of life represent the operation of the lower
life elements; but Man as Reason and
Woman as Intuition stand at the apex of in-
tellectual evolution.
The characterization of man as Reason and
woman as Intuition, is not meant to imply
that men are without Intuition nor that wo-
men are without Reason. Nor is it meant
that man alone develops the rational powers,
nor that woman alone develops the love rela-
tion.
What is meant, and all that is meant, is
clearly to state those inherent principles of
masculine power and feminine receptivity,
which assign man to the more powerful ex-
ercise of Intelligence and conditions and
woman to an absorbing rather than a creative
character of Intelligence.
While it is true that the masculine mind
REASON AND INTUITION
inclines to rational methods, yet religion, art,
poetry and romance embody the psychical
perceptions of men. It is also the psychical
nature of man which rises above lust to love,
and cooperates with woman in the home rela-
tions and in the social philanthropies.
It is true that feminine nature relies chiefly
upon intuitions. It is equally true that wo-
man's ability to reason enables her practi-
cally to apply those intuitions. Her rational
power enables her, when she will, to receive
and absorb knowledge, to cooperate intellect-
ually with man, and to reconstruct and re-
form society. It is woman's rational appli-
cation of Intuition that yields her an
indisputable influence in the world.
This brings us to a consideration of that
principle which impels masculine Intelli-
gence to seek Rational development, and con-
ditions feminine Intelligence to follow Intui-
tive methods.
All human activities are activities of the
Soul. It is the Soul itself which, acting
through its physical and spiritual instru-
ments, possesses Reason and Intuition.
How frequently women are heard to give
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
an instant decision on a question involving
moral principle, which decision she confesses
came not by Reason but by Intuition. Trust-
ing to Intuition rather than to Reason, she
too often neglects the slower, more difficult,
but more independent process of a rational
judgment.
A woman will act rationally upon a sug-
gestion which she cannot rationally under-
stand nor explain. A woman's "Because"
frequently leads to a better decision than a
man's independent Reason.
This closer touch with the spiritual side of
Nature safeguards woman in the ordinary af-
fairs of life, where she is unable to make
independent decision. These conditions and
experiences equip her with a faith in spiritual
things which the cold Reason of man cannot
override. She is religious by nature, and con-
stitutes the link that binds man to the consid-
eration of spiritual things.
This quicker apprehension of spiritual
relations conditions woman to search for
beauty, for harmony and love, rather than for
material possession and scientific fact.
Had Darwin understood the Universal
14S
REASON AND INTUITION
Principles and facts of Intelligent life, he
would have known that what he terms In-
stinct in the animal, is in reality the primitive
intuitive process of Intelligence. Nor did he
observe that the Capacity of Intuition is as
varied as the Power of Reason. He did not
observe that human Intuition covers an im-
measurably broader field than animal In-
stinct. Nor does it appear that he discovered
that the Intuitions of a high type woman are
infinitely keener than those of a woman of
low development. His statement as to man's
superior rational powers and woman's keener
perceptive faculty is, in a general sense,
correct.
History and universal experience support
this statement.
The best womanhood represents the search
for love conducted by the light of Reason as
well as by Intuition.
It is not aggression alone nor receptivity
alone that evolves. It is not Will alone nor
Desire alone that generates and reproduces.
It is not Reason alone nor Intuition alone
that educates and develops.
Aggression without receptivity is destruc-
149
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
tiveness. Will without Desire is waste. Rea-
son without Intuition is intellect without
Spiritual impressions. Receptivity without
aggression is stagnation. Desire without Will
is impotency. Intuition without Reason is
Spiritual impressions without direction or
purpose.
Generation involves, not merely the Will
to generate, but the Desire to nourish. Intel-
lectual development involves not merely the
activity of Reason, but Reason illuminated
by Intuition. Reason without Intuition is
hardening. Intuition without Reason is dis-
integrating. Rational conceptions without
spiritual perceptions engender skepticism
and dogmatism. Spiritual perceptions with-
out rational conceptions mean superstition
and fear.
ISO
CHAPTER XIII
HUNTER AND SEARCHER
Man as 'The Hunter for Truth" and Wo-
man as "The Searcher for Love" together
exemplify the highest uses of Intelligence
upon the physical plane.
At no period of the world's history has the
intellectual relation of the sexes been of so
much importance. At no period has there
obtained such equality of Intelligence between
them. At no previous period has the best
masculine Intelligence given such rational
consideration to spiritual things. Never be-
fore in history has feminine Intelligence at-
tained such power by purely practical and ra-
tional methods.
The most highly developed men of the su-
perior races mark that point of development
where masculine nature is modified and re-
fined through accelerated Intuition. The
most highly developed woman marks that
evolutionary stage where feminine nature is
151
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
strengthened to independent and rational
methods of thought and action.
The Modern Woman is the universal wo-
man with a stronger Will, better controlled
emotions, better reasoning power and a larger
knowledge of herself and the world.
The best manhood, without losing its essen-
tial character as force, is softened to an ap-
preciation of the Universal principles in
Nature. The best womanhood, without los-
ing its essentially pacific nature, is raised to
the possibility of more forceful activity.
Man, without losing his Will to conquer,
acquire and achieve, is able to perceive that
the highest achievement lies primarily in per-
fect relations of Individual Life. Woman,
without losing her desire for love and happi-
ness, is risen to a rational consideration and
an altruistic interest in public progress.
The best womanhood is arrayed for a
peaceful crusade. That crusade is conducted
in the name of education, industry, art and of
equality, altruism and love. She thus moves
into higher activities while maintaining the
feminine principle of accomplishment by
pacific methods. She stands for arbitration,
152
HUNTER AND SEARCHER
not for war; for principles and not for poli-
cies. She puts questions of morality before
questions of expediency. She seeks domestic
equality rather than political power. She
stands for mercy as well as for justice. She
advocates advancement by reciprocity and
not by subjugation.
Nor must it be imagined that feminine In-
telligence is not power. The history of intel-
lectual development is the history of pacific
influence modifying and overcoming the bru-
talities of intellectual power. Intellectual
development necessitates this receptive ele-
ment even as it does the aggressive. Nature
has decreed this complementary and co-
operating struggle as the price of a final per-
fect balance and completion.
Masculine Intelligence organizes, while
feminine Intelligence maintains organization.
While it is the masculine mind which evolves
law, it is the feminine Intelligence which pre-
serves law by non-resistance. Receptivity is
not negation, A pacific Intelligence is not
lack of Intelligence.
In this stupendous scheme of physical, in-
tellectual and moral evolution, the dual Ca-
153
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
pacities and Powers are absolutely interde-
pendent. Men, cut off from natural associa-
tion with women and grouped by themselves,
degenerate and revert to the primitive state
of lawlessness and ferocity. Women, denied
the natural association with men, degenerate
with equal rapidity into physical and intel-
lectual passivity and inertia.
It is only an equal development and har-
mony of this intelligent Power and Capacity
which constitutes the properly balanced indi-
vidual.
A well-balanced Intelligence must know
the uses of Intelligence upon both planes of
existence. The attainment of such a state is
more rapidly effected through the perfect In-
dividual relation of man and woman.
The true intellectual relation of man and
woman is that of master and pupil, and this is
the universal ideal which Intelligent men and
women have always cherished.
This statement is made without fear of
challenge from the highest type of either sex.
Man as master and woman as pupil of the
master, is the relation that every man seeks
and every woman craves. This is the relation
154
HUNTER AND SEARCHER
which gratifies masculine pride of Intelli-
gence and furnishes woman the intellectual
strength upon which she likes to lean.
Any other relation means disappointment,
humiliation and discord.
In the individual relation, as well as in the
general work of the world, the masculine
mind should be the pioneer. This demands
that power which goes into unexplored re-
gions, which conquers obstacles, collects new
material and organizes and arranges its facts
systematically. In the individual relation
the feminine mind should be to the masculine
just what the Universal Intelligence of
woman is to the Universal Intelligence of
man.
This means that it follows the pioneer, and
absorbs, digests and utilizes that which has
been collected, classified and systematized.
This is the one and only relation between
man and woman which gives dignity and
value to earthly life and absolutely satisfies
both Reason and Intuition. This is the one
relation which outlasts physical life and per-
petuates its conjoined activities in a higher
world than this.
155
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
The "modern" woman illustrates the sex
principle intellectually as clearly as does the
conservative woman of the past. Her vehe-
ment demands for equality are misunder-
stood. She is not asking that law shall abro-
gate the decrees of Nature by adopting the
same measures and the same standards for
both men and women. This demand for
equality is, at its foundation, merely the de-
mand for equality of opportunity and for rec-
ognition in those enterprises and activities
which she feels competent to enter. No true
woman would repudiate the natural leader-
ship of strong and masterful men. The pro-
test is not against such men. It is rather
against the dictation and domination of men
whom she knows to be her intellectual, as
well as moral, inferiors.
The intellectual dependence which man
seeks from woman, and the intellectual
equality of which woman dreams, are one and
the same thing, and are already foreshadowed
in the higher races. The processes of evolu-
tion are slowly but surely adjusting these into
a perfect balance.
This intellectual and moral interdepend-
1S6
HUNTER AND SEARCHER
ence, reciprocity and companionship of two
Intelligent Beings, is the highest ideal of
which the human mind is capable, and a phi-
losophy which conserves Nature declares that
this ideal is already working itself out as a
very practical, tangible, earthly reality.
This ideal is realized wherever the princi-
ples of aggressive and receptive Intelligence
strike the true balance in any individual Man
and Woman.
Man has been well named "The Hunter
for Truth," since we are indebted to his ag-
gressive Intelligence for our accumulation of
rational knowledge and scientific fact. Wo-
man may well be named "The Searcher for
Love." For whatever her weakness of body
or Will, whatever her sins of omission or
commission, the world must admit that it
looks mainly to woman for the preservation
and improvement of the home and the har-
mony and purity of society.
The Masculine Soul, moved by the spirit
of conquest, seeks forcefully to wrest its phys-
ical comfort and psychical content from Na-
ture and its fellow man. The effect of this
masculine inclination to conquer by force has
157
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
been largely to concentrate its energies upon
the physical plane of action. The concentra-
tion of Will necessary to forceful acquire-
ment keeps it close to the earth plane. As a
result masculine activities are characterized
by the physical conquest of physical and ma-
terial nature, and by the attainment of tem-
poral power in the affairs of men. This same
spirit of conquest also characterizes mascu-
line sports and even the masculine pursuit of
love. The Masculine conquers, acquires, re-
creates and loves in conformity to its aggres-
sive nature.
The Feminine Soul, conditioned by Na-
ture in every element to non-resistance,
seeks to conciliate force and to achieve its de-
sires through self-surrender.
The obstruction of the Feminine Soul in
the earlier reaches of civilization is due as
much to its own nature as to the tyranny of
man. During this long dark period it per-
mitted itself to be overwhelmed by the force
and ferocity of the masculine Will.
Not man alone, but woman also, is respon-
sible for her long suppression and obscura-
158
HUNTER AND SEARCHER
tion, for her physical servitude and mental
bondage.
Lacking the masculine thirst for power
and supremacy, she was not impelled to
either the forceful acquirement of knowledge
or the forceful control of environment. Her
desires did not necessitate the same concen-
tration of Intelligence as to the general af-
fairs of the world. Her rational powers were,
therefore, permitted to lie dormant while
her Desires largely shaped her destiny.
Bound to maternal duties and the individ-
ual relations of life, woman employed her
Intelligence along the lines of least resistance.
As a result, her energies and emotions are
more directly employed in the development
of the love relation which is personal and in-
dividual to herself.
Out of her Desire for Love springs that
silent, bloodless warfare of rivalry and jeal-
ousy between woman and woman. Between
her Desire for love and her Desire for
beauty, woman has occupied herself too much
in making herself attractive to men and an
object of envy to other women.
If it can be said that masculine nature
159
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
tends too much to Vanity of Intelligence, it
can be truthfully said that feminine nature
tends too strongly to vanity of personal ap-
pearance and charm. Where man goes to war
in support of his convictions and opinions,
woman employs her Intelligence to increase
and preserve her personal beauty. The one
is bent upon establishing his opinions through
his strength, the other is consumed with the
desire for personal admiration. The one is
seeking a -personal power, the other a per-
sonal love relation.
In the final summing up of life's purposes
it will be found that masculine and feminine
Intelligence have served as equal factors in
the evolution of man.
In this last analysis it will be found that
"The Hunter for Truth'' has discovered the
rational road to Happiness, while "The
Searcher for Love" has guarded the relation
in which Happiness is found. "The Hunter
for Truth" and "The Searcher for Love"
finally meet in the perfect relation. Truth
and Love shall be made one. The law will be
fulfilled and Happiness established in
Wisdom.
160
CHAPTER XIV
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT
As far as Natural Science penetrates, it
finds matter undergoing transformations
along Intelligent lines. It finds that Intelli-
gence is Universal. Matter is acted upon by
Universal Intelligence. What is true of Uni-
versal Intelligence is also true of Individual
Intelligence. While Universal Intelligence
governs the unconscious operations of man's
physical body, it is the Individual Intelli-
gence of man which coarsens or refines or
Strengthens or weakens its material instru-
ments accordingly as its individual methods
conform to or contravene Universal laws.
It is an Intelligent Soul, not a physical
body, which is seeking to know itself and to
realize its Desires and ideals upon the phys-
ical plane. It is a Positive Masculine Soul
and a Receptive Feminine Soul which are
seeking Individual and Ethical Content in
161
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
accordance with their differing powers and
capacities.
A Soul in seeking Happiness is continually
governed by that Principle of Polarity which
conditions it either to aggressiveness or to
non-resistance.
Man is the positive and aggressive Will
Power of the human family. He directs his
Intelligence toward the gratification of that
imperious Will. He concentrates his powers
of Intelligence along lines which are to grat-
ify the spirit of conquest. By reason of this
he becomes the positive intellectual as well
as the positive physical factor in the evolu-
tion of man. Everything on the masculine
side of Nature exhibits this positive and ag-
gressive energy. Positive masculine force
governs generation on the physical plane, and
also what we term organization and creation
upon the Intellectual plane. Everything on
the masculine side is arrayed for that struggle
for supremacy which results in intellectual as
well as physical contests.
Moved and inspired by this innate Power
of Will, an Intelligent Soul self-develops nat-
urally along the path of acquirement by
162
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT
force. Masculine Intelligence appears to
seek the lines of the greatest resistance. From
the beginning masculine Intelligence has
sought to gratify itself through obtaining su-
premacy, power and control among other In-
telligences.
Acquisition, whether of material things or
of power and control, necessitates definite
knowledge of that which is to be conquered,
acquired or governed.
Necessity for knowledge stimulates an In-
telligence to an acquirement of knowledge.
This necessity for knowledge and the effort to
gain it compel concentration of an Intelli-
gence. Knowledge so acquired, for immedi-
ate material uses, is always practically ap-
plied. It is this concentration of Intelligence,
this acquirement of knowledge and this prac-
tical application of knowledge which to-
gether constitute the Rational process.
Masculine Intelligence accepts this phys-
ical world and this physical life as his field of
conquest. To this end man concentrates all
energies of Intelligence for the achievement
of success among his fellowmen. Such con-
163
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
quest and acquirement seem possible only to
the masculine half of humanity.
Woman, from the beginning, has directed
her Intelligence toward the gratification of
her pacific nature. She exercises her intelli-
gence along the lines of least resistance. She
exercises it through the spiritual channels,
rather than by those rational methods which
necessitate greater concentration. As a result,
the Intelligence of woman is more affected by
spiritual than by physical vibrations, and by
spiritual rather than physical influences, con-
ditions and relations. She centers her Intel-
ligence where it enjoys the greater har-
monies. She centers her Intelligence upon the
love relation which is personal to herself.
She becomes the pacific intellectual, as
well as the non-resistant physical factor in
the evolution of man. Everything on the
feminine side of Nature exhibits this pacific
quality in relation to its masculine com-
plement. Everything on the feminine side is
conditioned to self-surrender. The feminine
half of humanity is not merely dominated
physically by masculine physical force, but
by the power of the masculine Will and In-
164
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT
telligence. On the feminine side there is no
such thing as a struggle for supremacy
through force of WilL As between women
themselves there is no exhibition of that spirit
of conquest which men display among them-
selves and toward women. Feminine nature
does not naturally nor voluntarily incline to
physical contest. Women are roused to force-
ful combat only where their personal or love
relations are threatened.
By reason of these facts the feminine mind
is stimulated to forceful activity mainly in
defense of the love relation of life. Her de-
sire for knowledge is not to gain a supremacy
among other women. It is that she may en-
joy the love relation and find self-content in
harmonious conditions.
From the beginning, feminine Intelligence
has exercised itself toward the gratification of
an absorbing love nature. This object does
not compel the same exact knowledge of
physical things and physical conditions that
man must acquire to accomplish masculine
ends and ambitions or aspirations.
Feminine ambition or aspiration does not
look for its satisfactions to material possession
165
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
nor to temporal power or fame. Seeking love
as the first object of life, the Individual
woman is not induced to acquire practical
knowledge as a means to this end. She lacks
that stimulating ambition or aspiration which
first calls for, and then maintains, a concen-
tration of Intelligence upon the physical side
of life.
For this reason woman has not kept pace
with man intellectually, but has depended
more largely upon the easier exercise of the
spiritual senses. She therefore maintains
a closer touch with spiritual things and acts
upon her intuitions from that plane, rather
than from rational judgments as to conditions
upon the physical plane.
She relies upon knowledge gained by the
least effort of Will. This, in effect, retards
rational development and gives to masculine
Intelligence the greater control of the phys-
ical and practical side of life, through his
greater Knowledge and stronger Will.
It becomes apparent that this problem of
masculine and feminine Intelligence is not
one of inferiority or superiority. It is merely
a question as to difference in kind of Intelli-
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT
gence. The distinction between masculine
and feminine Intelligence is no more an in-
vidious distinction as to woman, than is the
difference in their physical organisms. The
difference in the intellectual activities of the
sexes rests upon the same principle which
differentiates their physical bodies.
This question of woman's mental inferior-
ity is fairly tested in our advanced coeduca-
tional system. Women may well turn with
pride to their record in such colleges und
universities. These institutions do not report
woman as the mental inferior of her mascu-
line class-mate. They do not show her as
inferior in the acquirement of knowledge.
On the contrary, she challenges the young
men and frequently wins in the race for
honors.
This has to do with woman as an absorber
of knowledge, and not as the pioneer in an
independent acquisition of hitherto unknown
facts. Women as learners and teachers have
fully demonstrated their intellectual equality.
It remains for them to prove their strength in
original acquisition. It remains for woman
to show that positive force of Intelligence
167
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
which governs the organization and classifi-
cation of new facts into definite systems of
law, science, art, philosophy and mechanics.
Thus far, it must be admitted, the mascu-
line Intelligence almost entirely represents
what we define as the creative power in the
intellectual world.
It is not in degree, but in kind, that mascu-
line and feminine Intelligence differ. It is
not in value, but in force, that they are un-
equal. Though difiFerent in kind, they must
be reckoned as equal in value in the intellec-
tual progress of the world; for when we take
into account the ethical value of woman's
Intuitive Intelligence, it appears that the
scheme of Nature is to improve the Individ-
ual man and woman through a mutual ex-
change of intellectual activities. This con-
tinual exchange must be taken as the
prophecy of a final perfect balance or com-
pletion.
The especial errors of masculine and fem-
inine nature are also referable to the inherent
principles of aggression and non-resistance.
The sins of masculine Intelligence are mainly
168
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT
the sins of commission, while those of woman
are mainly the sins of omission.
The misuse and misdirection of masculine
Power are nowhere better illustrated than in
his treatment of woman. He seeks to control
her not only physically by physical force, but
he seeks to control her Intelligence by his
own Power of Will. This tyrannic masculine
nature exhibits itself also wherever men are
able to control other men by Power of Will.
The greatest error of woman is her weak-
ness, her submission and self-surrender to the
physical and intellectual tyranny of man.
Legal oppression and marital slavery were
never made possible except by the weak,
stupid submission of women themselves.
Even after nineteen hundred years women
are still so susceptible to spiritual forces that
they can scarcely bear the strain of public
life. Nervous prostration is the bane of our
ambitious women who are publicly contend-
ing with the spiritual conditions of our pres-
ent stage of development.
Even women will admit that it is mainly
women who indulge in nervous and emotional
conditions. The agonies of hysteria and the
169
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ecstasies of religious exaltation are largely
given over to women. Even women will con-
cede that their natural tendency is to view life
through the emotions rather than through
cold Reason.
History does not furnish a woman who
ranks, intellectually, with Buddha, Confucius
or Zoroaster. There is no feminine Abra-
ham, Moses, Solomon, Daniel or Isaiah.
There is no woman who compares with a
Christ, a St. John or a St. Paul. No woman's
name stands with that of Solon, Pythagoras,
Socrates, Plato or Seneca. There is no femi-
nine Homer, Ossian, Dante or Milton. No
woman has risen to divide the honors with a
Beethoven or a Michael Angelo. The sculp-
tured beauty of ancient Greece was mascu-
line art. No woman has entered the lists with
Euclid, Copernicus, Galileo, Newton, Dar-
win, Franklin and Edison. There is no wo-
man Shakespeare, Bacon or Blackstonc.
In the realm of religious reformation and
enlargement, masculine Intelligence has led
the way. It was the intellectual power of
a Luther, Calvin, Knox and Wesley which
170
INTELLECTUAL DEVELOPMENT
led the organized bodies of religious faith to
higher levels of spiritual liberty.
Speculative philosophy has gained nothing
from feminine Intelligence. Schopenhauer,
Kant, Hamilton and Spencer have no femi-
nine counterparts. By reason of her innate
nature and keen spiritual perceptions, it
could not be expected that there w^ill ever
arise a feminine skeptic to rank w^ith Paine,
Voltaire and Renan.
In the fields of poetry and fiction, man con-
tinues to lead. Hugo, Scott, Bulv^er, Balzac,
Thackeray and Dickens have no feminine
rivals in the fields of imagination.
Thus, in every department of intellectual
development, poetry, religion, science, art,
philosophy, law^ and literature, masculine In-
telligence dominates.
Natural Science traces these mental dijfer-
ences and inequalities of achievement to the
Universal Principles which govern sex itself.
All that has been said is not meant to brand
woman as a mental inferior. There can be no
question of superiority betv^een two indis-
pensable principles of Intelligence. These
tremendous facts of intellectual development
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
mean something, and that meaning lies in the
essential nature of man and woman them-
selves.
In both sexes, the rivalries of undeveloped
natures are slowly transformed. Masculine
combats and contests lose their ferocity and
virulence, while women, broadened by ra-
tional and moral development, finally rise
above the petty rivalries and vanities and
jealousies growing out of their Desire for
Love.
173
CHAPTER XV
ESTHETICS AND ETHICS
iEstheticism is marked by a greater or less
degree of refinement according to the general
development of the Individual. When sus-
ceptibility to harmonies includes but one class
of vibrations we then have the specialist; that
is, a music lover, the lover of color, or one
w^hose tastes tend to form, arrangement and
design.
The artistic temperament is very common,
and aestheticism is a very general pleasure of
the Intelligence. There are few geniuses or
artists. Art demands a higher order of In-
telligence than is involved in the mere per-
ception and enjoyment of the beautiful and
delightsome in Nature.
A genius is one who has the ability to ra-
tionally translate and reproduce his percep-
tions of the beautiful in Nature.
An artist is a genius plus the industry to
execute.
173
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Neither aestheticism nor art is the basis of
ethical rectitude. Neither susceptibility to
beauty nor ability to physically interpret such
beauty creates ethical sentiments. Ethics is
wholly a question of right conduct among
Intelligent Beings-
What constitutes the artistic temperament,
what gives rise to aesthetic tastes, and what
the explanation of genius, have long been
puzzling questions. These are phenomena
which are explainable under Universal laws
and principles.
It may safely be said that aestheticism is the
ruling vice, as well as the ruling characteris-
tic, of woman. Woman, as the more highly
spiritualized and intuitional half of human-
ity, is therefore the more aesthetic portion of
society. After woman's Desire for love, her
Desire for the beautiful becomes her great
temptation, ^stheticism, unaccompanied by
either a high order of Intelligence or a keen
moral sense, is a misfortune rather than an
accomplishment.
If Desire for love is one factor in prostitu-
tion, Desire for the beautiful is the other. The
Desire for dress, adornment and decoration is
174
ESTHETICS AND ETHICS
responsible for a large share of the immorali-
ties and sins of women. Fashion is essentially
the feminine folly that offsets the coarser
physical indulgences and sports of men. Wo-
men spend as much time, money and energy
in satisfying their aesthetic tastes, and in the
effort to be beautiful, as men do in the grati-
fication of their appetites and passions.
Where the one finds pleasure in the adorn-
ment of her body and the decoration of her
house, the other seeks his satisfaction in the
vices of gluttony, drunkenness, gaming and
in sporting generally.
It was inevitable that masculine Intelli-
gence should seek conquest and achievement
by force. It was inevitable that the feminine
Intelligence should seek to accomplish by
Surrender. It was inevitable that one should
look to material acquirement, to temporal
power, to knowledge and fame for happi-
ness. It was just as inevitable that woman
should look to aesthetic pleasures, social har-
monies and the love relation of life for her
happiness.
It was natural that man should become the
master of this material world, thus contribut-
175
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ing to the comforts, ease and pleasures of life.
It was just as natural that woman should
maintain those principles upon the physical
plane which give sweetness and beauty and
value to living itself.
It appears that Universal principles and not
physical circumstance, accident and hostility,
account for this divergence of masculine and
feminine Intelligence. It is not the struggle
for nutrition that evolves Intelligence. It is
not the struggle for reproduction that evolves
Love. It is not enforced competitions that
create masculine nature. It is, instead, the
Life Elements which give rise to competition
and constitute man the conqueror of material
things, the controller of temporal affairs, and
the developer of rational Intelligence. It is
not enforced sacrifices that create feminine
nature. It is, instead, the inherent elements of
receptivity which constitute woman the sacri-
ficial physical factor, the pacific intellectual
power, and the developer of social ethics.
These, then, are the differing activities of sex
Intelligence, which are seeking equalization.
It should give women cause for thought,
that a large part of the world's industry is a
176
iESTHETICS AND ETHICS
contribution to that character of aestheticism
which neither reason nor conscience can com-
mend.
The pursuit of the Good, the True and the
Beautiful, is rightly said to be the highest
occupation of a Soul. These pursuits may
well be said to cover the whole field of proper
intellectual activity and development. That
which is Good has to do with ethical princi-
ples. That which is True has to do with sci-
entific fact. That which is Beautiful has to
do with the harmonies of Nature.
True to the sex principle, the masculine
mind more naturally seeks that which is true.
Feminine Intelligence as naturally seeks that
which is beautiful. Man, by a natural law,
becomes the utilitarian, while woman as nat-
urally becomes the aesthetic factor in society.
These tendencies are curiously illustrated by
the criticisms the sexes so freely pass upon
each other. Men condemn women for their
vanity and emotionalism, for want of Reason,
and for lack of practicality and exactness.
Esthetic woman is daily and hourly offended
by the coarse tastes and coarser habits and the
brutal physical sports of men.
177
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
It is interesting to note that the average
woman is more offended by these things than
she is by masculine immorality.
Women are in danger of overestimating
their own more delicate tastes and habits,
attributing them to moral superiority.
If anyone doubts this, he has only lo study
women of the underworld whose Desire for
the beautiful has contributed so largely to her
downfall. Woman does not morally improve
the world by her aestheticism. Those tastes
serve to make life picturesque and pleasant
and beautiful. The moral Concepts of the
world do not depend upon color, sound, form
or arrangement. They are the result of right
relations between Intelligent Beings, and a
right understanding and practice of the prin-
ciples of equity, justice and right.
^stheticism is one thing and ethics quite
another. One has to do with the senses, the
other with the growth and development of an
Intelligent Soul. One has to do with har-
monious vibrations of matter, the other with
principles which govern the relations be-
tween Intelligent Beings.
in
CHAPTER XVI
HAPPINESS
The world has never seriously considered
Happiness as either a natural phenomenon,
as a normal state of being, or as the scientific
basis of the philosophy of life.
Nobody, be he scientist, or pessimist, or
theologian, will deny that Happiness is the
most desirable state of being. If honest with
himself, he will admit that a longing for this
condition is the secret of his own activities.
If one studies the lives of his neighbors, he
will discover that the hope and expectation of
Happiness sustain the Individual Man dur-
ing the struggle for nutrition and the Individ-
ual Woman in her reproductive sacrifices.
How to secure this Individual Content is
the first question which human reason puts
to Nature. To this search of immature minds
for an Individual and Ethical Content we
owe the steady development of Intelligence
and morality.
179
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
To discover the most direct route to this
desirable estate has absorbed the energies of
Individual Intelligence for ages.
Ideas as to what constitutes Happiness have
varied as much as individuality itself. They
have differed as much as do men in point of
time, race, country and development.
The important question to science is not
what manner of ideas men have set up to
mark the goal of human Desire. It is not
what men seek and name as Happiness. That
which is important to science is the fact that
the Individual Man cherishes such a desire
and seeks a certain ethical condition as the
end and aim of all his acts and accomplish-
ments.
Ignorant of the vibratory principle in Na-
ture, and ignorant of evolutionary processes
and possibilities, Man works out his Happi-
ness under seemingly hostile conditions.
Those conditions are only seemingly hostile,
for to one familiar with the correlation of
forces they arc seen as beneficent conditions
only. Only just such conditions could have
developed a rational and moral human being.
At the beginning an Individual has no re-
180
HAPPINESS
mote conception of the laws which govern
Individual Happiness. He does not even
speculate as to why he Desires this state of
being. He has no theories as to a law of
harmony in life. Only after ages of experi-
ment and apparent penalty does he discover
that there is an immutable Principle in Na-
ture which governs physical equilibrium and
ethical harmony or content.
The history of human development proves
that Happiness— the goal of human Desires
—is a state of consciousness that does not de-
pend upon the appetites and passions, nor
upon the acquisition of material wealth. It
proves further, that not even power or posi-
tion or fame or honor is the guaranty of this
coveted estate. This Universal fact has been
demonstrated throughout the ages.
The repeated failures of the past have not
served to wipe out the hope and expectation
of Happiness from the minds of succeeding
generations. This is a fact which cannot be
accounted for by the laws of heredity, as laid
down by physical science. Does it not rather
suggest that Nature, here as elsewhere, has
181
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
really furnished adequate laws for what ap-
pears to be a Universal necessity?
If Happiness were the outcome of physical
satisfactions, man never would have pro-
gressed beyond the limit of Nature's suffi-
ciency. If the organs of digestion and repro-
duction were the real inspirations of life, then
human Intelligence never would have risen
beyond appreciation of the pleasures of appe-
tite and of lust.
If material possession (surpassing physical
necessity) created Happiness, then the words
"Wealth" and "Happiness'' were synonymous.
Is it not true that the sorrows of the rich
are as commonly exploited as the miseries of
the poor?
Nor is Happiness the result or outcome of
a biological need. Most of the disease and
much of the crime and sorrow of human life
are the direct results of perversion in the
physical sex relation. The most unhappy and
the most degraded of mortals are those who
seek Happiness through the appetites and pas-
sions. The personal life history of the glut-
ton, the libertine and the prostitute would
carry its own proof of this statement.
182
HAPPINESS
Nor is Happiness bound up in maternity.
The universal sacrifice of woman in this rela-
tion needs no comment. The unhappiness
imposed upon woman by lust and by compul-
sory child bearing, is a matter well known, at
least to woman herself.
Happiness results from neither a competi-
tive struggle for nutrition nor a compulsory
struggle for reproduction. On the contrary,
the sources of Happiness as far transcend the
physical activities of life as the demands of
the Soul transcend the requirements of the
body.
The capacities for Happiness are as unlim-
ited as Individuality itself.
The Hottentot and the Christian gentleman
entertain very different ideas of Happiness.
Their individual enjoyments are as widely
separated as are their ideas. The difference
in their ideas and in their Ethical satisfac-
tions is measured by the physical, spiritual
and psychical differences in their individ-
ualities.
To the Intelligent man, Happiness not only
appears more, but is vastly more, by way of
effects, than it is to the man of low Intelli-
1S3
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
gence. It is more by way of cflPects, in that
the highly developed Intelligent Soul is
keyed to the higher vibrations and the higher
harmonies in Nature.
A Digger Indian may experience what to
him may be a perfect temporary satisfaction.
No one would imagine that he experiences
the same Ethical enjoyment which a Shelley
or a Tennyson might feel in the full realiza-
tion of his Desires.
The man who eats dogs, reptiles and raw
meat, creates wholly different vibratory con-
ditions in the organs of taste than the epicure
whose sense of taste is keyed to correspondence
with Nature's finest and most delicate foods.
The savage whose food is confined to the
coarse in Nature, is absolutely incapable of
those pleasurable sensations which the epi-
cure enjoys. In the same way, the man of
cultivated taste sickens at the mere thought of
dog meat and reptiles as food. If a savage
Soul cannot enjoy the finer effects of finer food
through its physical organ of taste, how much
less is its undeveloped Intelligence prepared
to understand or enjoy the finer harmonies of
intellectual activities through its mind. The
lt4
HAPPINESS
savage whose physical ear is attuned to the
discordant vibrations of the Tom-Tom cannot
be expected to grasp or enjoy the vibratory
harmonics of a Beethoven sonata rendered by
a modern musician.
Both the savage and the scholar enjoy sen-
sations. They are not the same class of sensa-
tions. Each receives sensations in the degree
of his own refinement, and the acuteness of
his senses. As a result, the aesthetic natures of
the two vary as widely as the degrees of re-
finement in their physical and spiritual or-
ganisms. Nor does the undeveloped Intelli-
gence of the savage formulate moral concep-
tions which are possible to the scholar. He
is not able to receive suggestions from other
Intelligences, either here or upon the spiritual
plane, equally with the man of developed
brain and cultivated moral principles.
The evolution of Happiness is bound up in
the reciprocal scheme of Sex. This princi-
ple, and none other, conditions the terms upon
which an individual equalization and balance
of the masculine and the feminine shall ob-
tain. Setting out with fierce aggressiveness
on one side and stupid submission on the
iss
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
other, these differing Intelligences run a long
and painful course of tyranny and slavery
in the world. In their final analysis, as manly
strength and womanly grace, they justify the
painful processes of evolution.
At the beginning the masculine and femi-
nine ideas of Happiness are as different as
their methods are unlike. The savage looks
to war, conquest and control. The slave looks
only to the amelioration of her condition
through conciliation of and submission to her
master. Her master and her children consti-
tute the only world she can hope to influence
to her advantage.
Who that is wise seeks his Happiness ex-
cept through the Love relation?
In such a relation, and in such alone, the
masculine and the feminine desires will ac-
cord as to all material interests, intellectual
occupations and Ethical principles, thereby
effecting that harmony of activity which the
Soul recognizes as a state of Happiness.
186
CHAPTER XVII
STRUGGLE FOR HAPPINESS
The Universal struggle of an Intelligent
Soul is foreshadowed in every activity of
every low^er entity. In each human being is
repeated all of the demands of all the lower
elements.
Human language has found but one defi-
nition for that which a Soul demands. There
is but one word for it, and this is an Ethical
word. No other word nor elaboration of
words could better explain or define that cer-
tain Ethical Desire which universally exists
in an Intelligent Soul. When Natural Sci-
ence declares that the main activity of human
Intelligence is The Struggle for Happiness,
it has explained the nature of the condition
desired, as explicitly as human language
permits.
A state of Individual, Ethical Content and
Happiness, is the inspiration and the goal of
every human activity. Here we finally come
187
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
to that struggle in human nature which must
take the place of Darwin's "Struggle for
Nutrition," and Drummond's "Struggle for
Reproduction." It takes the place of those
struggles, but not in the sense of denying their
existence, their value or their influence. The
Struggle for Happiness merely assumes the
leading role in human life, in place of those
involuntary activities which sustain the phys-
ical processes of nutrition and reproduction.
How, according to this theory, shall we
account for even that law of Individual pref-
erence which has evolved the animal world
as well as the human, from a promiscuous
sex relation? With countless opportunities
for gratifying passions, what is there in in-
telligent Nature which limits Individual
choice and erects the barrier of a "natural
repulsion"?
Indeed, the study of the Intelligent side of
animal life goes to show that the Individual
animal is given up to the business of living,
and is seeking Individual satisfactions as truly
as man himself. The man or woman who
owns and is fond of a dog, knows that the
dog has capacities for attraction which are
188
STRUGGLE FOR HAPPINESS
wholly unrelated to procreative instincts or
even to the affinity of species. The dog that
starves and dies upon his master's grave is a
singular commentary upon the theory of evo-
lution by digestion and a procreative tyranny.
When physical science recognizes the de-
mands of a Soul, as vv^ell as the needs of the
physical body, w^hen it perceives a "Struggle
for Happiness," as well as a struggle for nu-
trition and a struggle for reproduction, it is
then prepared to analyze man as a physical,
spiritual, intellectual, moral and psychical
Entity.
Intellectual progress was made possible
only by the fact that a Soul refuses to be sat-
isfied with those necessities which a Soul ex-
periences through the physical organism.
The very fact of an intellectual and moral
evolution is witness of this struggle of a Soul
to achieve satisfaction in terms of its own es-
sential nature.
The Desire and the Struggle for Happi-
ness constitute a Universal activity. Men
toil, not alone for nutrition and physical ne-
cessities, but that life may be sustained to
achieve Happiness. They toil, hoping to win
189
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
from toil the conditions for Happiness. Men
toil, not only for bread, but to satisfy a crav-
ing of the Soul which is not satisfied by
bread alone. They toil that they may achieve
that which will give Content and Happiness
to the Soul.
Happiness is no more the outcome of the
struggle for nutrition, than Love is the out-
come of the tyrannies of lust or the sacrifices
of maternity.
If human development and Happiness
were indeed the outcome of the Struggle for
Existence in the midst of a hostile environ-
ment, then the Laplander and the African
should represent the standards of enlighten-
ment and Happiness. The happiest and the
most highly developed human beings would
be found in the prolific belts of the temper-
ate zones. Nature develops through giving
rather than through withholding, through
hospitality rather than through hostility. It
develops the body through generous nutri-
tion. It stimulates Intelligence by furnish-
ing it intellectual food. It confers Happiness
through Individual Achievement.
Even in savagery the struggle for nutrition
STRUGGLE FOR HAPPINESS
is subordinated to the struggle of Intelligence
for satisfactions appealing to Intelligence
only. The savage delights far more in the
scalplocks at his belt, than he does in the
spoils of battle. The scalplocks are the visible
sign and symbol of his Individual strength
and courage and victory over his enemies.
The primitive man has only primitive De-
sires to guide him. His rational Intelligence
is not equal to the consideration of general
laws. All he feels are his impulses of attrac-
tion and repulsion. He is conscious only of
his necessities and Desires. He is conscious
only of attraction and repulsion, or sorrow
or satisfaction. He only knows that he is con-
tent in the possession of that which he craves,
and discontented or unhappy when deprived
of his Desires.
Because of undeveloped reason, the Strug-
gle for Happiness has been subject to every
character of experiment which the imperious
Will and strong passions of man, and the
weakness and stupidity of woman could sug-
gest. It has been subject to gluttony and lust,
to fierce ambition, avarice and vanity. It has
displayed every variation that cruelty and
191
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
folly could suggest to ignorant men and
women as means to an end.
So the millionaire rejoices in his surplus,
the result of his Individual genius, the pass-
port to public admiration, the sign of his
Intelligence and power among men.
Also the miser enjoys what appeals to
Intelligence only. He cheats physical nature
for an effect that is solely and only an ethical
effect, a state of consciousness.
The entire history of art is the history of
Intelligence seeking satisfaction, not because
of, but in spite of the exactions of physical
Nature. It is the history of Individuals who
have almost universally sacrificed physical
demands for intellectual ambitions or aspira-
tions. The struggle for nutrition has been the
obstacle of genius instead of its inspiration,
the world over.
Edgar Allen Poe would better have served
the struggle for nutrition by following the
plow instead of the pen. He would have
been far more comfortable physically, but
who shall say he would have been better sat-
isfied or more content? The life of Poe is but
a type of life in "Bohemia," where genius suf-
192
STRUGGLE FOR HAPPINESS
fers and starves that it may pursue a Soul's
Desires.
Also with the motives which inspire men
to patriotic and religious martyrdom. The
one satisfies conscience in battle for the (to
him) ethical principles of right. He battles
for life and liberty that he may be free to
pursue the struggle—not for nutrition—but
for Happiness according to his conscience.
The other dies by torture that he may not for-
feit his Happiness by denial of his God.
Thus moves the world of Intelligent Life.
Thus moves the Intelligent Individual in
search of those objects, relations and condi-
tions which shall afford a purely Ethical
Content and Happiness to the Soul.
Throughout the ages, The Struggle for
Happiness has shaped itself according to the
degree and quality of Individual develop-
ment.
The inherent elements of masculine and
feminine nature condition man and woman to
pursue the Struggle for Happiness along
different lines.
The same character of energy that impels
an unconscious physical atom to seek vibra-
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
tory equilibrium in another atom, impels the
Self-Conscious Soul to seek conditions and
persons in harmony with itself.
In the Struggle for Happiness man repre-
sents all aggressive energies and elements,
and seeks an Individual and Ethical Content
in terms of his essential strength, physical,
spiritual and psychical. Woman, represent-
ing all receptive energies and elements, seeks
an Individual Ethical Adjustment in con-
sonance with her essential qualities of recep-
tivity, absorption and self-surrender.
The outcome of these two principles, run-
ning side by side through evolution, was in-
evitable. By reason of these energies and
qualities, the Struggle for Happiness has
been characterized by force on the masculine
side and by self-surrender on that of the
feminine.
The two dominating factors in the Strug-
gle for Happiness are the aggressive Will of
man on one side and the absorbing Desire of
woman on the other. On one side a forceful
masculine Intelligence, and on the other an
Intelligence that is pacific in its nature.
The sex principle impels the Struggle for
194
STRUGGLE FOR HAPPINESS
Happiness as it does the struggle for repro-
duction.
These are the paths along which the sexes
travel. These are the general principles upon
which man and woman conceived their ideals
of Happiness.
The Struggle for Happiness as a sex prin-
ciple appears to be the struggle for knowl-
edge, wealth, fame and power on the mascu-
line side, and a struggle for love, beauty, har-
mony and pleasure on the feminine side.
Who shall say that Nature has not wisely ap-
portioned each to its task? Who shall deny
that the sum of masculine aspirations and
feminine desires constitutes completion and
Happiness when Intelligently joined?
The Struggle for Happiness is the rational
effort of man and woman to effect a harmoni-
ous relation between themselves. It is a mu-
tual effort to bring their Individual Desires
into correspondence and harmony.
How shall the Struggle for Happiness be
accelerated? How shall the goal of Mascu-
line and Feminine Desire be earliest reached?
These are questions the Individual is entitled
to ask of science and philosophy.
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Since the Wisest of earth have agreed that
Iniman Happiness rests upon the love rela-
tion of life, this becomes at once an Individ-
ual and personal question. It resolves itself
into a question of personal Intelligence,
Courage and Perseverance.
The state cannot legislate upon the ques-
tion of Individual Happiness. Law cannot
compel it. Governments can, at best, protect
the Individual in his right to its pursuit and
enjoyment.
Each Individual is the arbiter of his own
destiny. He is the builder or destroyer of
his own Happiness. There is no royal road
to Happiness, any more than there is to
knowledge.
Happiness necessitates rational knowledge
of the laws of life. It necessitates rational
conformity to principles. The Struggle for
Happiness is an infinitely varied struggle.
The Struggle for Happiness is a matter of
Evolution and not Revolution. Every Indi-
vidual Soul is developing itself by a scries of
experiences which finally mold and condition
it for its noblest destiny — Happiness here
and hereafter.
CHAPTER XVIII
SELF-COMPLETION
When we declare that the main activity of
human Intelligence is The Struggle for Hap-
piness, we have only stated the struggle for
Self-Completion. We have only stated the
commonest fact of daily life, and the most
familiar experience of our Souls.
Self-Completion is the state or condition
which represents the sum-total of results of
one's efforts to improve himself entirely inde-
pendent of all other beings whomsoever.
It has no relation whatever to the perfect
marriage relation.
Individual Intelligence is engaged in the
accomplishment of its purpose, Self-Comple-
tion.
An Intelligent Individual achieves its pur-
pose, and Nature rewards it for this achieve-
ment by Individual Completion and Happi-
ness. In this its Destiny is fulfilled.
It appears that the general purpose of Na-
197
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
turc and the particular purpose of the Indi-
vidual are the same purpose, being wrought
out under a Universal Principle. Nature is
beneficent, rather than hostile, in its attitude
toward organic Intelligence. Nature has ex-
pended unmeasured energies during count-
less ages to improve and complete the Indi-
vidual. For uncounted ages Individual Intel-
ligence has assisted Nature by its Individual
effort for Self-Completion.
The evidences of the Struggle for Self-
Completion and the Struggle for Happiness
crowd upon each other in every field of human
activity and investigation. For such evidences
the inquirer may turn to history. He may con-
sult physical science. He may investigate
Nature. He may study his neighbor, and
analyze himself. Everywhere, at every turn,
in every record, in every activity and circum-
stance of life, in every Individual motive, he
will find himself confronted with that one
principle in Nature which governs the Strug-
gle for Self-Completion and the Struggle for
Happiness.
He will find this principle under many
names. He will find it as the Law of Polar-
SELF-COMPLETION
ity, the Law of Motion and Number, the Law
of Vibration, the Law of Affinity. Under
whatever name he finds it, he will perceive
it as a fundamental principle of positive
and receptive energy, forever seeking equi-
librium through Individual Entities. When
he has ranged in his studies from chemical
Affinity to human Love he will be familiar,
theoretically at least, with the Struggle for
Self-Completion and the Struggle for Hap-
piness.
The Struggle for Self-Completion eluding
the physical senses of man, is observable and
tangible to human Intelligence only. The
phenomena of Intelligent life, the struggles
and activities of Intelligent beings have no ex-
planation in physical science. Exact proof of
the Struggle for Self-Completion is obtain-
able only by such means and such methods as
are employed in Natural Science.
Though the Individual Struggle for Self-
Completion is the commonest activity of hu-
man Intelligence, it is nevertheless a struggle
wholly obscured, as such, from the con-
sciousness of the Individual. There are good
reasons why this great struggle is unknown
199
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
to the Intelligence. It has never heretofore
been disclosed as a scientific principle.
Neither physical science nor philosophy has,
up to this time, apprehended this struggle as
a natural and distinct activity of Individual
Intelligence. It has never been observed as a
legitimate process of evolution.
It was not until Darwin's exposition that
the world discovered the Universal struggle
for nutrition, and in the same way the tre-
mendous moral significance of reproduction
was overlooked until it was laid bare by Mr.
Drummond.
While the struggle for Self-Completion is
the struggle of Individual Intelligence, the
average Individual lives, struggles, and dies,
without having recognized the real motives,
of his own activities. It is safe to say that not
one out of every hundred ever formulates the
motives of his own daily activities. Poets
and singers have dimly grasped this great
law. These we classify as prophets or dream-
ers, whose visions furnish us literary enter-
tainment.
In the great active world of human affairs
this great struggle passes under countless dis-
200
SELF-COMPLETION
guises. It is known under an infinite variety
of names. Every man is engaged in it, yet
none appears to realize that he is so engaged.
Men appear to themselves and to others to be
doing an infinite variety of things. This, in a
physical sense, and even in an intellectual
sense, is quite true. In an ethical sense, how-
ever, all men are in reality doing the same
thing. In reality, all men are struggling for
the same ultimate ethical state of the Soul.
Though the struggle for Self-Completion
has hitherto found no expression through sci-
ence; though it is nameless to the popular
mind, it is a struggle well known to every In-
dividual Soul. Be the man high or low, civ-
ilized or savage, wise or simple, he is none
the less conscious that he is struggling for
Something.
The history of intellectual and moral de-
velopment is the history of self-conscious In-
telligence seeking satisfactions which appeal
to Intelligence alone. The greatest struggle
in Nature rests upon desires which have
nothing to do with the involuntary opera-
tions of physical nature. To relate this Eth-
ical Struggle of a Soul with conditions grow-
201
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ing out of physical nature is to set Intelli-
gence an impossible task. By no trick of
imagination can we logically relate the Uni-
versal desires of Intelligence with feeding
and breeding. By no process of reason can
we confuse the Ethical rewards which Intel-
ligence seeks with the physical satisfactions
which the Soul experiences.
The physical deprivations which Intelli-
gence suffers in the pursuit of its desires are
the commonest facts of human history and In-
dividual experience. All that man has ac-
complished above and beyond animal accom-
plishment represents the Desires of an In-
telligent Soul, seeking self-satisfaction.
The motives and desires which move men
to their daring accomplishments reside in the
Soul and not in the body. The inspirations
which have evolved the ideal of "heroism"
have their seat in the Soul and not in the
stomach.
Take the history of exploration and discov-
ery alone. Before this record of voluntary
physical sacrifice, deprivation and suffering,
how insufficient appears the theory of a
"struggle for nutrition in the midst of a hos-
202
SELF-COMPLETION
tile environment." Among these historical
adventurers have been men of strong physical
bodies and strong Desires. There have been
men of wealth and comfortable condition;
men v^ho literally abandoned certain phys-
ical comfort for certain physical discomfort,
for probable disease, for possible death.
What relation exists betw^een the demands of
nutrition, the instinct of self-preservation, and
that spirit of daring v^hich braves the un-
know^n dangers and deprivations of the burn-
ing tropics or the frozen north? Do any or
all of the laws of physical heredity account
for those Intelligent processes which over-
ride the demands of physical nature, map-
ping out a path of achievement perilous to
physical health and even to life itself?
What other possible motive than a Soul
Desire could lie at the basis of such adven-
tures?
The history of exploration and discovery
is but the history of Individual achievement.
Such achievement is everywhere the record
of Individual Intelligence seeking those re-
wards which only Intelligence appreciates.
It does not matter whether the particular De-
203
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
sire which moves a certain Individual to ac-
tion, be the Desire for wealth, power, knowl-
edge, fame or even love itself.
That which is important is the fact that
the development of man rests upon Desires
of the Individual Intelligence and not upon
physical functions.
Whatever may have been the particular
motive which inspired a Nero, a Napoleon,
a Washington or a Lincoln, that motive can-
not be even remotely associated with "the
struggle for nutrition in the midst of a hos-
tile environment." The thirst for power and
the desire for liberty are qualities of an ambi-
tious or aspiring Soul. They are not even re-
motely expressions of physical functions or
physical compulsions.
What is there in the struggle for nutrition
to account for missionary zeal and adven-
ture? Here we have to deal with rational
beings who voluntarily resign the physical
comforts of life and voluntarily imperil
health and even life. For what? That they
may educate the ignorant in what is regarded
as truth, thereby satisfying an internal Ethi-
cal need. In this case we have neither am-
204
SELF-COMPLETIOx\
bition, vanity, scientific zeal, nor the desire
for wealth or power to account for this phe-
nomenon.
Here is renunciation, not of physical com-
fort, but of most of the things which Intelli-
gence regards as sources of Satisfaction. The
missionary has done that which, according to
his Soul's necessities, promises him the great-
est measure of Ethical content.
Where or how shall we find any relation
between the struggle for nutrition and the
act of the millionaire who piles up another
million? Through what processes of diges-
tion shall we account for the miser, that un-
happy being who denies the demands of nu-
trition to satisfy a Soul greed for treasure?
How does the Darwinian theory account for
the soldier who rushes to certain death in the
midst of battle? How does it account for the
deprivations to which the scholar will sub-
ject himself in the acquisition of knowledge?
To what character of food combinations
and to what class of physical competitions
must we look for explanation of the Individ-
ual achievements of scientists, inventors,
205
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
poets, painters and singers, throughout the
world's history?
Almost universally the history of Soul de-
velopment is the history of physical depriva-
tion. It is the record of Individual Intelli-
gences choosing between comfortable phys-
ical conditions and their Soul Desires. It is
almost universally a history in which the de-
mands of digestion are made secondary to the
Struggle of a Soul for Self-Completion. The
enforced struggle for nutrition may be a
spur to indolence and stupidity, but it is the
perpetual stumbling-block to an aspiring
Soul.
Conditioned by Nature to seek Self-Com-
pletion through physical, spiritual and psychi-
cal non-resistance, the physical servitude,
mental subserviency, and petty vanities and
deceptions of woman are explained. Depen-
dent upon her attractions instead of her
strength for her victories, moved by emotions
rather than by judgments, the subtle and
evasive tactics of a woman are easily under-
stood. Feminine Intelligence has served femi-
nine weakness in its long Struggle for Self-
206
SELF-COMPLETION
Completion by methods which can only be
defined as "feminine."
These facts of Nature prove that man ac-
complishes Self-Completion by aggressive ac-
tivities while woman accomplishes Self-Com-
pletion by pacific activities.
The Natural Law of Vibration or Affinity
is the pathway along which an Individual
travels in his sex selections. Individual
preference, in such selection, is the only sign
by which Nature informs man of his obedi-
ence to law. The scope and power of this
Principle cannot be appreciated until it is
recognized as the Universal inspiration of
man in his efforts for Self-Completion.
The general purposes of Nature may be
rapidly promoted by the willing co-opera-
tion of Individual Intelligence. Every eflfort
which refines the physical body, quickens the
faculties, increases knowledge, and uplifts
the moral nature, is a distinct step toward
Self-Completion.
Thus moves this marvelous scheme of
Nature toward its Completion of the Indi-
vidual. In every department of Intelligent
life are the same principle and the same pur-
207
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
pose demonstrated. Guided by the Universal
Principle of Polarity, and inspired by the
subtle demands of an Intelligent Soul, man
moves to his own Self-Completion through
an infinite series of experiences, physical,
spiritual and psychical.
Here are explained the rise, and the pur-
pose of that rise, from an involuntary to a
voluntary activity on the part of Nature's
Individual products. Here are explained the
method and the purpose of Evolution which
display, first, an unconscious response to a
Universal Intelligence, second, a Conscious
Impulse, and finally, the Rational Will and
the Rational Desire to comply with that gen-
eral law. Here are explained the Struggle
for Self-Completion, and the purpose of
that struggle which engages all of the en-
ergies of every Entity of every kingdom.
30t
CHAPTER XIX
INDIVIDUAL COMPLETION
Universal Intelligence is engaged in the
Completion of the Individual.
Individual Completion rests upon a har-
monic relation betwreen tv^o intelligent beings
of opposite polarity.
A perfect harmonic between Soul and Soul
is the one and only relation or condition
w^hich will confer upon man the conscious-
ness of Individual Completion and a perma-
nent Individual Happiness. This is the rela-
tion which Natural Science declares must
obtain before man and woman can be pre-
pared to take up still higher lines of person-
al development. This relation, once estab-
lished, results in a voluntary and indissolu-
ble union, here and hereafter.
Nature designs that an Individual shall
seek his complementary half, or his Polar
Opposite, in another Individual who must be
209
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
in such correspondence with himself that the
two shall represent a Completed Individual.
In the establishment of this relation Na-
ture accomplishes its purpose, the Comple-
tion of the Individual, or Individual Com-
pletion.
The word "Completion" must not be con-
fused with the idea of "perfection," nor must
it be taken to mean the completion of Indi-
vidual development. Natural Science has
nowhere discovered a state or condition of
perfection in man. Neither has it discovered
any Individual relation or attainment which
means the end of Individual effort and
achievement.
Individual Completion is that state of vi-
bratory correspondence, equilibrium of en-
ergies, and ethical satisfaction which may be
obtained in the union of two Intelligent In-
dividuals of opposite Polarity. That Individ-
ual relation which mathematically and har-
monically fulfills the design of Nature and
the needs of Individual Intelligence.
Man and woman work out the particular
purpose of human life when they arrive at a
reciprocal relation which satisfies every re-
210
INDIVIDUAL COMPLETION
quirement of the Intelligent Soul. Nature's
effort to complete the Individual is attended
by steadily increasing mathematical results.
No normal woman will deny, and no man
is in the position to deny, one Universal De-
sire that lives in every feminine Soul. This
is a Desire which wakens in childhood and
persists to the end. It is a Desire that sur-
vives all conditions of a woman's life. It is
one that lives on, too often unfulfilled, in the
midst of a growing family. That one Desire
which never dies, however skillfully or con-
scientiously concealed from the world, is the
Desire for an exclusive. Individual, Love Re-
lation. It is the longing for an exclusive com-
panionship and a personal Happiness in that
companionship.
Natural Science, giving heed to this voice
of Nature, delivers to woman a more hopeful
message than physical science or moral phi-
losophy or orthodox religion has ever brought
to her.
Nature declares that woman is created for
Individual Completion which includes that
exclusive Love relation, that Individual
Companionship and that personal Happi-
211
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ness which she forever craves. It declares
that woman is not created to conserve the
family. It finds that she is created for an In-
dividual Life, Love, Knowledge, Attain-
ment and Influence, here and hereafter.
Natural Science has determined that this
long-sought Individual Completion of the
Individual man and woman depends upon
the relation they establish between them-
selves. In the attainment and preservation of
this perfect mutual relation is laid the sub-
stantial foundation of all further activities
and achievements, here and hereafter.
In such a relation Nature's purpose of In-
dividual Intelligent human life is achieved.
The task of Nature in bringing an Indi-
vidual into a unity of the trinity, is a gigantic
one. The far greater task, however, is to es-
tablish a perfect vibratory relation between
the triune natures of two Individuals of op-
posite Polarity.
This is an achievement toward which the
Universal Intelligence and the Individual
Intelligence move in supplementary lines.
When such relation is established the fun-
damental principle in Nature is satisfied:
212
INDIVIDUAL COMPLETION
That principle which impels every
Entity to seek vibratory correspondence
WITH another like ENTITY OF OPPOSITE
Polarity.
When such a relation is established the
fundamental principle of human life is sat-
isfied; that principle which impels one In-
telligent Soul to seek Happiness in another
like Soul of opposite Polarity.
In this achievement lies the Completion of
the Individual.
Individual Completion involves effects in
the Individual which are both material and
Ethical. On the material side are both the
physical and spiritual organisms of a man
and a woman keyed to the same vibratory
conditions. On the Ethical side are two In-
telligent Souls who respond to each other in
all of those activities, of the positive Mascu-
line Will on one side, and by the absorbing
Feminine Desire on the other.
Such is the Individual Completion that Na-
ture demands, even upon this physical plane.
Such is the Individual Completion that Nat-
ural Science has demonstrated. In such Indi-
vidual Completion, and in this alone, Natural
213
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
philosophy claims that man and woman are
fitted properly to discharge the physical
functions and Altruistic obligations to the
race. In such Individual Completion, and
in this alone, is human Intelligence equipped
to exercise its powers and capacities and to
achieve its noblest possibilities.
Under such interpretation, Individual
Completion can be accomplished neither in a
physical struggle for nutrition nor in a phys-
ical struggle for reproduction. Instead, In-
dividual Completion, as designed by Nature
and sought by man, involves the establish-
ment of a perfect relation between an Indi-
vidual Man and Individual Woman.
Nature^s Completion of an Individual is
the process by which Nature brings a man
and a woman into the perfect union as Soul-
mates.
Individual Completion is the state of being
in which two perfectly mated Individuals ex-
ist after Nature has brought them together in
the perfect union.
214
CHAPTER XX
AFFECTION
Affection is the emotional activity of Soul
attraction between parents and children, as
well as between brothers and sisters, and rela-
tives, and friends.
In human maternity we have a relation
which may express physical, spiritual and
psychical sympathies.
In the animal kingdom material attraction
is an involuntary and irrational response to
the Universal law of correspondence.
In the human kingdom maternal affection
expresses a self-conscious, voluntary and ra-
tional activity of Individul Intelligence, as
well as involuntary affinities and impulses.
Maternal affection in the human kingdom
is a psychical activity as well as a physical
bond.
This reading of Nature discloses human
maternal affection as but one of the expres-
sions of Universal Law.
215
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
It explains that human maternal solicitude
is no more the outcome (jf maternal pain and
sacrifice than masculine aggressiveness is the
outcome of the struggle for nutrition.
Though maternal attraction obtains in the
animal kingdom, it is the human mother who
enjoys those increased capacities for affection
which dawn with the induction of the highest
life element, the Soul.
Human mother affection appears more, and
is more, in both volume and effect, than the
maternal attraction of an animal. The hu-
man mother has the capacities for those
higher attractions which the animal lacks. A
tigress just as truly has an attraction for her
infant as does the human mother. There ex-
ists between them close attractions both of
the physical and spiritual. But who is there
in this age of enlightenment that can fail to
note the difference between tiger attraction
and human affection?
Physical science has a peculiar way of in-
terpreting "selection" that would seem to im-
ply that somehow both animals and humans,
in their individual sex relations and maternal
216
AFFECTION
activities, are really engaged in the effort to
preserve species only.
We are told that "the preservation of the
species was before everything else the object
of selection." Also that "the first necessity of
societies is that they endure." Again we are
told that the price of the endurance and per-
petuation of species depend upon the care
which mothers bestow upon their offspring.
It is therefore concluded that the manufac-
ture of mothers is the first object of Nature.
While this assumes to speak for Nature,
how shall the individual impulse and intent
of the mother be understood?
In truth, here is where physical science
fails. It asssumes a purpose for Nature, and
in that assumption it loses all sight of the In-
dividual.
The maternal attraction of the tiger is a
purely Individual impulse. The tigress has
nothing but this Individual impulse and In-
dividual intent to bind her to her offspring.
She has no remote instincts as to the preser-
vation of species, nor of the natural necessity
for good mothers. She has not the faintest
perception of a moral responsibility to her
217
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
child. On the contrary, she is b(3und to it
solely by a fierce, animal attraction. She is
bound by tiger attraction. She is impelled,
not compelled by that attraction to feed, to
caress and to guard it.
Unless we hold that affection is a mere
habit of enforced sacrifice on the part of the
human mother, there is absolutely nothing in
physical maternity to create or occasion af-
fection. There is, in fact, everything to en-
gender dread, opposition and resentment on
the part of an Intelligent human being,
forced thus to suffer for the race. Affection
is not a habit. It is not an inherited result of
physical discomfort and sacrifice. To asso-
ciate affection with any idea of compulsion,
is to entertain an absurdity. The very nature
of affection forbids the thought. Fear and
endurance and patience and self-repression
may come by compulsions and sacrifices, but
affection, never. The attempt so to relate it
is an offense against Nature. It contradicts
intuition. It confuses reason. It belies ex-
perience.
Maternal affection survives physical death;
which proves, as in the case of love, that
218
AFFECTION
there is involved a Universal Principle and a
spiritual and psychical relationship as well
as a physical relationship. Natural Science
assumes that maternity is a Universal activity
of feminine nature which conserves the per-
petuation of the race. It is found further,
that maternal affection in the spiritual world,
even as it is in the physical world, is an in-
cidental relation of life, rather than the pur-
pose of living.
In that life, as in this, intellectual activities
and ethical enjoyments constitute the occupa-
tion of Intelligent Beings. Intellectual aspi-
rations and moral purposes and ethical satis-
factions are, therefore, held to be the govern-
ing causes in the evolution of man upon both
planes of existence.
From the vantage ground of its broader
investigation, Natural Science is justified in
assuming that neither preservation of species,
the creation of a family, nor the manufacture
of mothers, has been the inspiration of that
Great Intelligence which guides the infinite
scheme of evolution. On the contrary, all of
the laws of Nature on both sides of life, com-
bine to show that the primary object of this
219
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Great Intelligence has been the perfecting
and completion of the Individual Man and
Woman.
Natural Science claims that this primary
object of Nature is distinctly foreshadowed
in:
That Principle in Nature which im-
pels THE individual ENTITY TO SEEK VIBR.\-
TORY CORRESPONDENCE IN ANOTHER LIKE EN-
TITY OF OPPOSITE POLARITY.
330
i
CHAPTER XXI
LOVE
Love is the highest (most intense) activity
of a Soul. It is the direct and specific result
of the perfect harmonic relation between one
man and one woman. It leads to perfect
Happiness in the marriage relation.
The word means just one thing, and one
only: The highest activity of a Soul. Hence,
anything which means less than "the highest
activity of a Soul" is not Love.
The Individual Love relation of man and
Woman embraces ethical possibilities.
This is true by reason of the fact that only
between Individuals of opposite polarity can
there exist a union which may be at once
physical, spiritual and psychical. Nor are
such close harmonies possible even spiritually
and psychically except between representa-
tives of positive and receptive elements. Men
and women who have vainly sought for ethi-
221
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
cal content in children or in friendship, will
sooner or later confess this law.
When the scientific investigator proves the
fact of life after physical death, he proves
that man is a spiritual being with Intelligent
occupations, as well as a mammal with phys-
ical functions. When he finds that rational
and moral development continue in that
other life, he proves that there are other gen-
erative agencies in Nature than the organs of
digestion and reproduction. When he dis-
covers that the spiritual world is inhabited by
men and women, he discovers that sex is a
Universal Principle, instead of a biological
need. When he finds that men and women
seek each other in that spiritual world with
the same definite, exclusive desire they do
here, he then realizes that Love represents a
higher necessity than that of reproduction.
On the spiritual side of life men and
women seek each other with even greater de-
sire than they do here. They seek each other
in response to the desire for intellectual
companionship, and not from the passion of
lust which too often takes the place of Love in
physical marriages.
222
LOVE
In that world, as in this, the same exclusive
character dominates the Love relation. It is
not any man or any woman, but the one man
or one woman that the spiritual Lover seeks.
It may be a comfort to those who are un-
happily mated here, to know that spiritual
life equips the Individual much more easily
to form happy relations.
It must be remembered that a proper dis-
charge of earthly obligations is in itself the
development which best fits the spiritual man
or woman to form higher and happier rela-
tions in spiritual life.
These are some of the facts which mean
that sex is a Universal and an eternal Princi-
ple, that Love is a Soul activity, and that
Marriage is a spiritual and psychical neces-
sity as well as a biological need.
Nature brings a message to man that sat-
isfies his Intelligence and inspires a Soul to
still higher effort.
The Individual man finds compensation
for the struggle for nutrition, and the Indi-
vidual woman finds reconcilement to the
sacrifices of reproduction. This reading of
Nature and this alone dignifies the sex rela-
223
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
tton, {jives value to Individual existence, and
explains Love as an Intelligent need of a Soul,
and not a blind lust of a body.
Love is as involuntary as breathing. It is
the instant and involuntary response of the
Individual to the Universal Law of Har-
monics.
There is no known principle or process in
Nature that can compel Love between Na-
ture's children. Love is the exact reverse of
compulsion. It is the one phenomenon in Na-
ture which defies every phase or force,
whether that force be physical, spiritual or
psychical.
An Individual is impelled to Love by a
Universal Principle, and not physically com-
pelled. Correspondences, co-operations and
harmonics, and not compulsions, competi-
tions and sacrifices, are the natural pathway
of Love. Thus, destiny is fulfilled, not in con-
tributions to the body nor to progeny nor to
species, but in the highest possible Individual
relations and attainments. Destiny is fulfilled
in intellectual and moral activities, and not
in following out the lines laid by the physical
functions.
224
LOVE
Natural Science finds a Universal basis for
Love, instead of a physical one. It lays down
a lav^ of fulfillment in the place of a Islw of
sacrifice. It formulates a philosophy of In-
dividual development instead of one of In-
dividual repression. This philosophy looks,
not to sacrifice and resignation, but to Indi-
vidual Happiness, as the goal of Intelligent
life and endeavor.
By a long series of carefully proven facts,
it clearly demonstrates that everything in this
physical world has a Universal basis, and that
Love comes into the world through this Uni-
versal law of consent, and not through phys-
ical compulsions, "at the point of the sword."
Natural Science is right when it declares
that Love is the highest activity of a Soul, and
that rational Happiness is its highest attain-
ment. If the reader doubt this, let him re-
view history. Let him study the activities of
men and the Love relation of life. Let him
analyze his own highest aspirations and
ideals. Let him discover the main-spring of
his own life. If it be not Love and Loving,
he must confess that he falls below his ideal.
To debased passion which is pre-eminently
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
selfish, and not to Love which is absolutely
unselfish, must be referred all of the strife and
discord which mark the evolution of sex.
Misplaced affection may leave a temporary
sorrow in a Soul. Separation from the be-
loved may mean loneliness; but never yet, in
the affairs of men, did Love evoke unhappi-
ness or commit a crime. Ungoverned pas-
sion and blind jealousies have made havoc in
human affairs. Love, from the beginning,
has never been anything but Love; and "Love
suffereth long and is kind."
The attempt to define Love, except as the
highest activity of a Soul, would amount to an
absurdity. We cannot go behind the word
itself. There are no synonyms for the word
Love. There are no other words which would
convey any clearer understanding as to the
activity itself. Each Individual must meas-
ure the meaning and value of "Love" by his
own observations and his own experiences.
Love is the supreme activity of an Intelli-
gent Soul.
CHAPTER XXII
SEX RELATION
There is nothing prejudicial to sex in
scientific analysis of its physical functions.
It is as important as are the analyses of the
spiritual and psychical functions. Nor is
there anything gross in the true physical sex
relation. That relation should be accepted as
a legitimate office of human life. Properly
viewed, it is one of love's expressions. Rightly
guarded, it conserves the highest interests of
the race. The physical sex relation is a
proper function of life. It is not the purpose
of life. Nor is it a function properly dis-
charged until man knows the meaning and
purpose of his own life.
Human ignorance brings confusion into
the sex problem, as into every other vital is-
sue of life. Here, as elsewhere, the free Will
and Desire of ignorance pervert Nature's
laws. In this relation, as in every other, man
is a free moral agent. He may occupy him-
227
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
self in the grosser elements and Oi*!iccs of sex,
thus arresting his own development. He is
left perfectly free to invite the degeneracy
and extinction of his own family or line.
Nature, in the end, safeguards its meanings
and purposes. Nature, in the end, defeats
perverted and degenerate sex practices. It
wipes out the offending family or commun-
ity. The natural law of Affinity and the
needs and requirements of an Intelligent Soul
are the forces continually at work to over-
come false theories and abnormal practices.
That which alone is prejudicial to sex is
that theory of sex, promulgated by physical
science. That which alone is detrimental to
the sex relation is the deduction that "a bio-
logical need is the prime cause of marriage,"
and the basis of love between man and
woman.
Many who secretly revolt at such doctrines
have not the courage to contradict them.
Others of gross inclinations adopt this posi-
tion as an excuse for their own naturally low
estimates of the sex relation. What is said is
not meant to impeach the motives of physical
science. The scientific skeptic is undoubted-
228
SEX RELATION
ly sincere. He desires only to uncover Na-
ture to the Intelligence of man. His position
is due to his limitations and not to a deliber-
ate intention to mislead. Both Huxley and
Haeckel accepted theories of evolution and of
love which shocked their Intelligence. The
v^ritings of most of our great specialists along
these lines indicate their reluctance to level
their ideals of life and of love to the theories
of their school.
Physical Science that claims to have solved
the problem of evolution should be able to
explain v^hy both birds and men have died
of grief v^hen separated from the particular
object of their desires. How^ will it explain
this character of Individual preference as the
result of a "blind procreative passion?" Th«s
far, physical science has not tried to explain
this phenomenon. It contents itself with de-
fining such manifestations as "inexplicable."
So long as physical materialism fails to ex-
plain this general law of Individual prefer-
ence in sex selection, it should not rest in its
search for the factors and causes of evolution.
This phenomenon of Individual preference
alone clearly refutes the theory that sex is no
229
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
more than a physical device for reproduc-
tion, that it has no other motive, impulse nor
meaning, than procreation. Instead, here is
the phenomenon of physical life which
clearly demonstrates the fact of Polarity or
Affinity in Nature, as well as a blind biolog-
ical need.
All modern materialism, rationalism and
theology, find in sex but one meaning and one
purpose, reproduction. Anything higher or
finer, by way of an Individual, Intelligent
and ethical necessity, has not yet been con-
ceived by modern science and philosophy.
Thus far, it has been left to the poets and to
the common intuitions of mankind to pre-
serve the true relation of love.
Neither scientific materialism nor theolog-
ical materialism has disclosed the principle
which impels the aggressive and pacific en-
ergies in Nature to combine. Neither has
portrayed that greater struggle in which ag-
gressive male Intelligence and receptive femi-
nine Intelligence are engaged. Neither has
conceived of the ethical purposes which ra-
tional masculine Will and rational feminine
Desire are slowly working out.
230
SEX RELATION
To the findings of physical science we owe
the rise of pessimistic philosophy. To these
we must credit those doctrines of sex and
love, against which developed Intelligence
protests. Because of such findings, cause and
effect are reversed. The highest and most
subtle ethical values in life are made to ap-
pear as the mere efflorescence of the grossest
functions of Nature. Because of this out-of-
focus view, the true sex relation has been re-
duced to a "biological need."
Physical science substitutes the needs and
requirements of the physical body for the
needs and requirements of the Intelligence
which operates the body. Modern science
demonstrates chemical affinity. Is it not sin-
gular that it denies to an Intelligent Soul as
subtle a principle as that which governs an
atom of dust? Is it not singular that the same
Intelligence which grasps the Universal
Principle of Chemical Affinity is oflPended
when asked to recognize the Universal Prin-
ciple which draws Intelligent Beings to-
gether?
It has come to be almost unsafe to use the
word "Affinity" in connection with human
231
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
relations. The word has been prejudiced by
reason of its misuse and misapplication by
the ignorant, the designing and the vicious.
The word has been misused to cover up im-
moralities. It has been misapplied by would-
be reformers who, with but a glimpse of the
law, have sought to regulate society. This,
together with the fact that numerous men and
women excuse their weaknesses upon the
ground of "Affinity," has brought reproach
upon the word itself. It has lost caste in so-
ciety. As a result, the conventional fear it.
Both science and theology have come to re-
gard it with suspicion. It has come gener-
ally to be recognized as a synonym for
"free-love."
All of this does not abrogate the Principle
nor rob the word of its value. It illustrates
the difficulties in the way of establishing a
fact or a truth in Nature.
It is not especially surprising that physical
science overlooks the higher implications of
sex. Restricted as it is to the physical uses of
that relation, it is natural that it should inter-
pret the highest ethical relation of a Soul
as an effect of the grossest physical function.
2S3
SEX RELATION
It is not surprising that physical science has
overlooked the Universal Principle of Affin-
ity. This ignorance of physical science con-
cerning Nature brings confusion and humil-
iation into all modern discussion of sex.
Scientific ignorance as to the principles and
purposes involved has debased the name. It
has leveled the Intelligent affinity of a Soul
to the unconscious affinities of physical sub-
stance.
If the Individual Intelligence of man did
not continually dispute physical science and
so-called rationalism, youth would be hope-
lessly demoralized. If it did not continually
contravene scientific skepticism, no man could
preserve the true understanding of love. No
man could exalt his love relation above its
reproductive function. A general acceptance
of the deductions of physical materialism, as
to sex, would be the end of that which is most
sublime in the relation of man and woman.
These deductions as to sex, marriage and re-
production constitute, at once, the most un-
scientific, and the most debasing doctrine
that ever emanated from recognized au-
thority.
233
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Physical science dimly perceives the fun-
damental differences of masculine and femi-
nine nature. It deals with them so confusedly
as to increase rather than to dispel the mys-
tery. When it explains the physical differ-
ences which obtain in sex, as results of the
physical functions, that explanation appears
plausible. When it comes to these marked
distinctions in psychical nature, it is forced to
admit that such distinctions are "inexplic-
able."
Thus far physical science has speculated in
vain as to the causes of sex distinction. It
publishes volumes of theory and statistical
data. It has studied the habits, analyzed the
blood, weighed the brain and followed out
in detail the smallest clue which might lead
to a solution. It has, however, analyzed,
weighed and measured physical properties
only. The means and methods thus far em-
ployed have failed. The subtle distinctions
in sex have not been revealed at the dissecting
table, in the laboratory, nor under the micro-
scope. All that physical science has thus far
discovered as to sex, may be summarized:
Sex inheres in all living matter.
234
SEX RELATION
The generative entity is defined as male.
The reproductive entity is defined as fe-
male.
The male half of Nature is characterized
by greater physical strength and greater
force of Will.
The feminine entity is characterized by a
more delicate physical organism and the
more pacific temperament.
The sexes are differentiated in appearance,
in organic structure, in physical function,
and in their intellectual activities and psychi-
cal temperament.
In human life, the mental as well as the
physical activities of man are the more ag-
gressive; those of woman are the more pa-
cific.
The activities of masculine Intelligence
more particularly conserve the acquirement
of knowledge and the exercise of power. The
activities of feminine Intelligence more par-
ticularly conserve the development and the
preservation of established relations.
There is one fundamental sex characteris-
tic in both the animal and the human king-
doms which has received but an incidental
23S
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
attention from physical science. This pecu-
liar characteristic, dismissed as "inexplic-
able" by physical science, is, in fact, the very
key to the evolution of man through sex
selection. The law referred to is that of
Individual Preference, which phenomenon
obtains almost as universally in the animal
kingdom as in the human.
2S(
CHAPTER XXIII
MONOGAMY AND POLYGAMY
Physical science holds that the institution
of marriage has no other meaning than
"regulation of the sex appetite." It finds,
nevertheless, that the best results as to repro-
duction are effected through unions by Indi-
vidual Choice.
Physical science has declared:
That polygamy appears to be a natural re-
lation.
That monogamy accompanies the highest
known development.
Satisfied that Love unions produce the
finest progeny, physical science concludes,
not merely that Love marriages should be
encouraged, but declares that the Individual
should be permitted to form as many Love
marriages as he chooses. This says in sub-
stance: "Marriage, if monogamous, should
be made and dissolved at pleasure."
This bald proposition makes it appear
237
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
more repulsive than when presented in at-
tractive style. The theories of physical sci-
ence, like other monstrosities, are always ren-
dered more repulsive when stripped of an at-
tractive garb.
This the great common sense of civiliza-
tion will condemn. It is an extreme possible
only to minds that have become so engrossed
with the functions of physical nature as to
lose sight of those Universal Laws and Prin-
ciples which govern Intelligent and moral
nature. This is a position which reduces man
to the animal, levels Love to a matter of lust,
and eliminates moral responsibility in the
family relation.
The natural corollary to this singular
proposition would mean that children be-
come wards of the state, cared for by public
officials at public expense. This "improved"
system eliminates the parents and natural
guardians. It discards, as unnecessary, pa-
rental and family affection which have so
long been regarded as the foundation of the
social order.
This is a logical outcome of Darwinian
doctrine. Here we have, not merely a mari-
238
MONOGAMY AND POLYGAMY
tal, but a social, educational and ethical sys-
tem outlined upon the theory that "man is a
mammal like any other with a better cerebral
development than a horse or a dog."
In the very face of a system which ad-
mittedly accompanies the highest develop-
ment on earth, it is suggested that we sub-
stitute practically a free selection; plainly
speaking, a successive polygamy sanctioned
by law. Here we have it seriously suggested
that parents be relieved of their natural and
moral responsibility for their own children,
and that children be deprived of parental af-
fection and personal influence whenever those
parents desire to form other ties. We have
also a marriage system proposed that shall be
governed by the caprice or passion or self-
interest of the Individual.
Physical science rightfully defines promis-
cuity as "an unnatural practice." It states
facts when it claims that polygamy or prosti-
tution has been or is the accompaniment of all
grades of social development. It is also cor-
rect in assuming that strict monogamy char-
acterizes the highest civilization, and that it
is best for the whole people. It is right again
239
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
when it finds that the best results as to repro-
duction depend upon love unions.
The Evolution of marriage, up to our pres-
ent system of strict monogamy, represents the
Evolution of the Rational Intelligence and
the moral nature of man. If \vc admit that
the present Christian nations of the earth
represent the highest stage of Evolution, we
must also admit that its marriage system has
produced the best results. The progress of
civilization unquestionably proves that the
rational mind and the intuitions of man set
steadily toward monogamous and indissolu-
ble union.
Such a marriage system has been made
possible only by reason of the fact that man
recognizes in himself something more than
an animal. It means that he recognizes and
accepts the responsibilities imposed upon a
rational and moral being. It means that lit-
tle by little he rises above the animal and
conforms to regulations which satisfy an In-
telligent Soul.
Nor could any Evolution of marriage have
been possible, except for the fact that man
realized such restrictions as beneficial. Even
aio
MONOGAMY AND POLYGAMY
the very Individuals who secretly indulge
and traffic in sexual commerce would not,
if they could, repeal the laws which guard
the physical, mental, moral, material and so-
cial well-being of the race.
When physical science talks of the "natur-
alness" of polygamy and prostitution, it con-
siders only the Elements which are a part of
physical nature. It fails to recall that the
Evolution of Rational Intelligence and
moral perceptions has been universally ac-
companied by a more and more rigid sys-
tem of monogamous union. It ignores the
fact that the nature of man universally in-
clines to such a system. No man, and surely
no woman, balanced morally as well as men-
tally, could condemn monogamy in its prin-
ciple. Even the libertine and prostitute
would admit it to be an essential in the de-
velopment of government, society and the
home.
The average Individual condemns it only
when he has mistakenly assumed its obliga-
tions and is cheated of his personal Happi-
ness. Even the average men in civilized life,
those given to personal indulgences, would
241
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
be the first to resent the return to barbarism
which is implied by, "marriage made and
dissolved at pleasure." It is safe to say that
the great majority who enjoy the benefits of
civilization and Christian development,
would protest against any scientific system
that reduces marriage to a question of Indi-
vidual caprice, cupidity or passion, and elim-
inates the responsibility of parents, consign-
ing children to the care of the state.
The rational and moral Evolution of the
average man has progressed too far for se-
rious consideration of any system which
would wipe out all that makes life worth liv-
ing: The mutual Love and loyalty of men
and women in the marriage relation, the
moral responsibility to children, and those
ideals which bind men and women and chil-
dren to the home.
Nature and history sustain physical science
up to a certain point. There are other facts
in Nature which contravene those theories of
physical science concerning the practices of
polygamy and prostitution. These other facts,
at present unknown to the physical scientist,
show that such practices are not the intent of
242
MONOGAMY AND POLYGAMY
Nature. These other facts go to show that
such a marriage system as outlined by phys-
ical science, if universally applied, would
mean the physical, intellectual and moral
degradation of humanity.
Promiscuity is unnatural in that it directly
contravenes the Universal Law of Affinity.
Polygamy and prostitution represent, not ful-
fillments of the Natural Law of Marriage,
but the effort to fulfill it.
Every Entity, from atom to man, is an In-
dividual seeking vibratory correspondence in
another like Individual of opposite Polarity.
Every Individual seeks a correspondence in
each and all of the Life Elements of which it
is composed. The requirements of each En-
tity are simple or complex, according to its
place in the scale of development; the min-
eral atom whose energies are electro-mag-
netic only, finds an Affinity or mate more
readily than a man who represents the com-
bined Elements of electro-magnetic, vito-
chemical, spiritual, and the Soul Life Ele-
ments.
Every human being, as a distinct Individ-
ual in Nature, is a vibratory law unto him-
243
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
self. He has a degree of material refinement
and a rate of vibratory action in both his
physical and spiritual organisms, which are
distinctly his own. He has also a psychical
nature, a quality of Intelligence and a code
of morals, which are peculiar to himself.
These are the peculiar conditions, qualities
and properties which constitute Individ-
uality.
Such is the law which forbids promiscuity,
suffers polygamy and leads on to monogamous
and indissoluble union where all of its con-
ditions are fulfilled.
Polygamy and prostitution are deplorable
phases of the struggle for Self-Completion
and the struggle for Happiness. They rep-
resent the ignorant efforts of the undevel-
oped, the gross and the vicious, for self-ad-
justment. Both forms of sex relation are due
to undeveloped reason and a low grade of
morality.
In Natural Science these practices are re-
garded as immature stages in human devel-
opment. They are practices which may be
termed experimental rather than unnatural.
They are the means of education. They
MONOGAMY AND POLYGAMY
teach man through experience that he does
not find permanent satisfaction in such rela-
tions, and are practices which retard true de-
velopment so long as maintained.
Polygamy and prostitution must be clas-
sified as schools of experiment in which hu-
man Intelligence learns the apparent penal-
ties of false sex relations.
These experiments appear to be the neces-
sary trial of the Law which ignorance must
make in the midst of Nature's subtle prin-
ciples and forces. These gross practices, in
their evil results, are a part of human educa-
tion. They are not Laws of Nature, they are
lessons involved in learning the Law.
Polygamy and prostitution, whether the re-
sult of passion, ambition, avarice, vanity or
religious superstition, must be interpreted as
a part of the long Struggle for Happiness.
No matter how coarse and repulsive those
practices appear to the refined Soul, Natural
Science detects under all revolting detail, the
Universal search of an Individual Soul for
its natural Affinity and mate, for its Individ-
ual Completion and Happiness. This search
is a long one in point of both time and ex-
245
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
perience. It represents an almost infinite
series of Individual steps. It involves an al-
most infinite number of experiments and mis-
takes. It effects an almost infinite series of
improvements.
Universal experience is the proof of this
law.
This is proven by the stupendous fact of
Evolution itself, for Evolution is the history
of that search and struggle.
Natural Science has demonstrated that the
Principle of Polarity is a fact of Nature; and
that under its operation Individual Comple-
tion is but an expression of the union of one
man and one woman in the perfect marriage
relation. Thus it must be understood that
Monogamy is that form of marriage which
alone is consistent with Nature's great pur-
pose—an indissoluble union.
aM
CHAPTER XXIV
NATURAL MARRIAGE
Students of Nature are struck with the
order, harmony and consistency which char-
acterize the animal sex relation.
This is accounted for by the fact that the
Intelligent animal responds instinctively to
the Universal Principle of Affinity. He re-
sponds to each new attraction with a readi-
ness which makes the act appear almost auto-
matic. In animal life are none of those re-
straints or restrictions which prevent response
to every stronger attraction. The Individual
animal escapes the temperamental friction
which comes in human life through social and
legal restraints.
In human life marriage is a relation which
calls for the exercise of an Individual and In-
dependent Reason, as well as Intuition. To
the capacity of Intuition is added an In-
dividual and Rational Will with the Inde-
pendent Power of Execution.
247
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
To these independent Powers and Capac-
ities we must attribute the errors and con-
fusion brought into the orderly operations of
the Natural Law of Affinity. Man feels the
same desires as the animal, but he indulges or
restrains them at Will. Man, however, has
Desires which animals do not feel. These
also he may gratify or deny at Will. Man,
like the animal, is forever seeking adjust-
ment, but he docs not seek it in exactly the
same way. The animal has only his instincts
to guide him. He does not make independent
rational experiments. Man, though contin-
ually admonished by Conscience, has yet the
Individual Power to ignore that Conscience
and to follow a path marked out by his own
Individual Reason.
Every man and woman can recall his or
her own Individual fancies and unaccount-
able attractions and repulsions for those of
the other sex. Each one knows from observa-
tion or from a personal experience that there
is a Principle of sex attraction and selection
which defies the arbitrary rulings of the civil
law, the conventions of society, and even what
appears to be one's own physical, material
248
NATURAL MARRIAGE
and moral interests. Here is the Principle
which so frequently runs counter to social and
commercial advantages that have been so
"reasonably" planned for personal advantage.
This "inexplicable caprice" in sex selection
is, more than anything else, the factor which
colors the history of nations and shapes the
Individual destinies of men and women.
Though Nature furnishes human Intelli-
gence the true principle of selection, the In-
dividual has not that independent knowledge
of the Law which enables him to reach a
logical judgment. Men and women, eager
for Happiness and full of their own precon-
ceived ideals, rush into legal or illegal mar-
riage with the first Individual who seems to
meet the requirements. As a result, the large
proportion of marriages represents only par-
tial correspondences instead of the perfect
harmonic.
Marriage occupies that broad middle
ground between complete discord and perfect
harmony. This means that few married pairs
either hate or love each other. It means that
in the average marriage, affection and antag-
onism alternately play. The great body of
249
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
married people live in an Individual relation
which is as far removed from actual Happi-
ness as it is from actual misery.
Consciously or unconsciously, every man
and woman is diligently seeking the true
harmonic. Each one hopes to escape the dis-
cords which are so apparent in other lives.
While every Soul cherishes its own ideal
of a perfect love relation, very few believe in
its realization. Seriously to claim that there
is such a realization possible is to lay one's
self open to the criticisms of ignorance, and
the ridicule of scientific skepticism.
There is a Natural Law of perfect mar-
riage, and all social inharmony arises through
transgression of this Law. All of our con-
jugal infidelities, deceptions, discords and
sorrows represent either the innocent or ig-
norant or wilful violation of the Law.
Here and there are Individual pairs who
appear to be fulfilling the Natural Law of
Selection as well as the legal contract of
marriage. Such unions are exceedingly rare.
When it is conceived that a perfect marriage
relation is a part of the evolutionary scheme,
the mind has some conception of the task
2S0
NATURAL MARRIAGE
which Nature and the Law have set out to
accomplish. This will appear to the skeptic
as even a greater task than the gradual evolu-
tion of a man from a moUusk.
Natural Science, which has been studying
and experimenting for ages along these lines,
declares that the climax of the Individual
development rests upon this perfect relation
rationally effected.
The general average of Individual Con-
tent and Satisfaction will be immeasurably
increased when the Individual is willing to
expend the same Intellectual energy in the
selection of a life-long companion that he
does in the study of the arts and sciences, or
even in the matter of horticulture and stock
breeding.
The natural tendencies of evolutionary
processes may be quickened by the Individual
and Intelligent efforts of man himself.
Physical science demonstrates how human
Intelligence, when brought to bear, may im-
prove animal and vegetable species. It
clearly proves that an Intelligent breeding
and training of animals improves them phys-
ically and increases their Intelligence. It
251
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
proves also that Intelligent grafting and
pruning improve vegetation in form, in lux-
uriance of foliage, in beauty of flowering and
in the quality of fruit.
If Intelligent employment of natural laws
thus accelerates the development of the ani-
mal and the plant, how much more of satis-
faction and benefit the Individual will receive
through the same character of improvement.
The Individual who is himself refined and
learned, who has keen sympathies, noble as-
pirations, and high moral principles, is the
Individual who has the greater chances for a
healthy, successful and happy human life.
Such a man or such a woman is best
equipped to make the selection which is the
basis of greater Content and Satisfaction.
The message of Nature to an Individual,
when rightly understood, is one of encourage-
ment and hope. To every Soul it says ex-
plicitly and directly:
"There is a Universal Law of Individual
development and fulfillment. There is a
Natural Law of Marriage and a Natural
Law of Happiness."
252
CHAPTER XXV
LEGAL MARRIAGE
The legal institution of marriage grad-
ually developed out of what appears to us as
mental and moral chaos. Human society, in
its primitive stages, displays apparently noth-
ing more than the fierce ambition of the male
half and the extreme stupidity of the female
half. It is the effort by v^hich undeveloped
reason seeks to attain an Individual gain oe
satisfaction.
Out of these natural conditions of force on
one side and inertia on the other, but one re-
sult has been possible, masculine domination
by force and feminine subjection through
vs^eakness.
The men ov^ned the women and children.
Women were distributed, not married, to suit
the gross caprice or fancy of the men of the
tribe. They were the property of the tribe,
used and misused to satisfy the savage pas-
sion of the stronger half of the community.
253
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
In tracing the origin of the legal system we
cannot go farther back into the mental and
moral twilight of humanity than is illus-
trated in:
"MARRIAGE BY CAPTURE"
In this brutal custom it is safe to say we
strike the foundation of our own highly de-
veloped legal system and codes. Marriage by
capture refers to the forcible capture and
marriage of the women of one tribe by the
men of another. This form of sex relation
cannot be correctly designated as marriage.
It represents more correctly the results of
physical combat and the physical supremacy
of man over woman and over other men. It
marks the lowest point of human nature, and
the smallest degree of natural Intelligence.
On the other hand, it represents the free play
of man's naturally fierce passions. Marriage
by capture involves no greater exercise of
Intelligence than to effect capture and hold
the captive against her will and against other
rivals.
"MARRIAGE BY PURCHASE AND SERVITUDE"
This refers to that condition of barbarism
where women have become a matter of com-
254
LEGAL MARRIAGE
merce and barter. At this stage the men not
merely own and dominate women and chil-
dren, but they have risen to an appreciation
of their commercial value. The husband
owns his slave wife or wives. A man may
kill his wives or sell them to other men. He
owns his daughters and sells them in mar-
riage. In point of morality there is nothing
to mark the distinction between marriage by
purchase and marriage by capture, except
that we here find the first indications of the
recognition of the property rights of others.
Marriage by purchase and servitude involves
a certain exercise of the rational powers. It
is one step in advance of pure lawlessness. It
necessitates a crude set of customs or laws.
It embraces regulations, confers rights and
privileges, and imposes punishments for the
infringement of the rights of others.
There is a considerable degree of difi^erence
between the period where each man main-
tains his own supposed rights by his Individ-
ual strength, and the point where Individual
rights are recognized by the community or
tribe. Marriage by purchase and servitude,
with all of its brutalities, involves the exer-
255
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
cise of reason and the first faint perception of
the rights of others. As may be imagined,
this complete subjugation of woman affords
her little opportunity for advancement. The
sex relation becomes a matter of barter and
sale. It is subjected to every species of per-
version that the fierce passions and low In-
telligence of man can devise. This engenders
a gross polygamy, which prevails until man
attains the next step in evolution know as,
CONXUBIXAGE.
This is the general form under which pure
savagery emerges into semi-barbarism. This
marks the period when the human mind has
risen to a rational conception of a civil code
of laws.
It is that form of marriage which fills the
wide space between animal attraction and the
noblest monogamic unions. Legal concu-
binage, admitted and practiced in so many
countries, is a sort of free marriage, tolerated
by custom, recognized by law.
This, in fact, is a blending of polygamy
and monogamy, which at the same time grat-
ifies the sex principle of selection and con-
tributes to the material wealth of the Individ-
2S6
LEGAL MARRIAGE
ual man. Concubinage will be found to
cover the sex relation of a larger number of
people than any other form of marriage.
MONOGAMY
Here, at last, we have a legal system which,
in theory at least, represents the perfect sex
relation. Here we have in crystallized form
a rational conception of marriage which ac-
cords with the Universal Principle involved
in perfect marriage.
Geographical, political and religious con-
ditions give rise to countless vagaries in mar-
riage. Polyandry has prevailed where men
were largely in excess of women. The levi-
rate is sustained by the codes of both Moses
and Manu.
It is true that prostitution has been and is
the universal accompaniment of all legal
forms of marriage. It is an almost open
practice among savages. It flourishes under
concubinage. It is licensed by many civilized
peoples. It is an unlicensed indulgence in
what we define as ''Society."
This is the brief outline of legal marriage
and of the sex relation in the past and present.
Natural Science holds that legal marriage,
257
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
as developed by man, is in accordance with
the Universal Principles of Evolution. Legal
marriage represents the effort made by the
independent, rational mind of man, to adjust
the sex relation. The laws of man upon this
subject are only the expressions of his ra-
tional and moral self-development from lower
to higher planes.
The history of legal marriage is the history
of human experiment in the midst of Na-
ture's hidden principles and subtle forces. It
is the history of rational Intelligence working
out Universal Principles of Nature. The
evolution of reason and morality is neces-
sarily by and through such experiment. Hu-
man reiason approaches a knowledge of, and
compliance with, Natural Laws by a long
and devious route. Experience by experi-
ment, and knowledge by experience, consti-
tute the only path to Individual Completion
and Happiness. The history of legal mar-
riage is, indeed, a long record of ignorant ex-
periment and consequent apparent penalty.
All of this has been necessary to the final ra-
tional comprehension of the true sex prin-
ciple.
2St
LEGAL MARRIAGE
The history of legal marriage is vastly
more than a history of experiment and suf-
fering. It is the history of Individual
achievement; a history of the rational and
moral evolution of man. It is man alone
w^ho introduces a rational selection as a legit-
imate part of Natural Selection. Men and
v^omen unite, not only involuntarily and in-
tuitionally, but voluntarily and rationally.
Legal marriage represents the struggle for
Self-Completion and the Struggle for Happi-
ness through rational methods. Here is pre-
sented the phenomenon of Individual and In-
dependent reason rising out of an irrational
condition of Intelligence. Here is the record
of a rational marriage relation evolving from
irrational and chaotic impulses and passions.
The history of legal marriage is the history
of masculine domination and feminine ac-
quiescence. From the beginning woman has
submitted to and supported laws in which
she had no voice.
These were laws which disposed of her
personal liberty, her body, her children, her
Will and her property. The legal marriage
system, as well as all civil and ecclesiastical
2S9
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
codes, is the direct outgrowth of the mascu-
line mind and not of the feminine. It is the
aggressive masculine Intelligence which in-
clines to organization as a means of Individ-
ual benefit. Civil law represents the aggres-
sive mind seeking satisfaction through force-
ful conquest and acquirement. In the begin-
ning legal marriage embodies neither justice
nor morality. Instead, it represents the crude
eflforts of masculine Desire seeking to gratify
itself. It represents the operation of unde-
veloped Reason, supported by a strong Will
and a strong body.
At the beginning woman had no voice.
For ages she was a subject only. So long as
man remains the savage, woman remains the
slave. If man at the beginning was fierce,
woman was stupid. Physical force subjected
physical cowardice. The strong Will domi-
nated the weaker one. Man assumed control,
woman acquiesced. Man was a tyrant, woman
a slave.
Because of these fundamental diflferences
in masculine and feminine nature, man was
assigned the larger share in the rational de-
velopment and material progress of the
260
LEGAL MARRIAGE
world. True to his nature, man bases his legal
code upon property considerations and the
principle of inheritance. In this he co-oper-
ates with other men. Woman, more closely
bound to the personal and family relation,
attempts to conserve her own interests by per-
sonal means and influence. Men concern
themselves with general affairs, women with
particular relations. The one legislates for
himself and the community, the other strives
for herself and her family.
The masculine mind seeks Self-Completion
largely through rational processes, while
woman is content to rely upon her intuitions.
Legal marriage at every stage of Evolution
bears the impress of the masculine mind and
masculine nature, rather than that of the
feminine.
Legal marriage represents the co-operation
of man and of woman, gradually moving to-
ward the perfect ideal, monogamous and in-
dissoluble union, rationally contracted and
legally sanctioned.
This brings us to a consideration of those
particular causes which have impelled man
continually to change and modify his own
261
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
laws. When we say that legal marriage rep-
resents the rational development of man, we
have only named the method by which he is
able to improve upon primitive sex relations.
This does not explain the cause of improve-
ment. It does not explain why that rational
method carries him from the grossest forms
of polygamy to the noblest systems of monog-
amy. Here the inquirer must turn to Nat-
ural Science.
The secret cause of an improved marriage
system is the same cause that binds two birds
in conjugal content for life.
THE UNIVERSAL LAW OF AFFINITY
The Evolution of the legal marriage sys-
tem is due neither to the organs of digestion,
generation, nor reproduction. Instead, it is
based in the Universal Law of Affinity which
impels the Individual man to seek Self-Com-
pletion.
Legal marriage does not represent a "strug-
gle for nutrition in the midst of a hostile en-
vironment." It represents a struggle for
Happiness in the midst of unknown prin-
ciples and forces.
The Universal Law of Affinity and the In-
262
LEGAL MARRIAGE
dividual Struggle for Happiness, have been
the corrective agents in the development of
legal marriage. Physical Science is right
when it refers the depravities of human sex
to the independent Reason of man. The in-
dependent power of Will, and of execution,
enable man to pervert, if not to abrogate,
every natural law of being. It is significant
to note that even with the power to do so, man
does not incline to general promiscuity in the
sex relation. Here the Universal Principle
of Affinity is more potent than the caprice of
undeveloped reason.
In marriage, as in every other relation, the
rational mind of man has sought regulation
for the purpose of increasing his own satis-
faction. In this, as in every other experi-
ment, the immutable Principle of Affinity
has operated to correct him and to revise his
judgments. It sweeps away man-made regu-
lations, from time to time, and vindicates
itself in more equitable laws and codes.
Even in savagery the Natural Law of Selec-
tion by Affinity prevails over arbitrary cus-
toms. The Individual Struggle for Hap-
piness continually overrides the barbarous
263
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
marital codes. The desire for personal lib-
erty and the desire to give one's self freely in
accordance with the Individual Will and De-
sire, are as strong in the savage as in the civil-
ized. Slave women, incapable of physical
resistance, and too timid for open defiance,
will yet elude their purchasers, risking life,
and give themselves to lovers of their own
choosing.
The brutal penalties imposed by the mas-
ter upon his unfaithful slave wife, fails to
compel loyalty, just as the legal penalties of
our own code sometimes fail to compel the
loyalty of wives to husbands. If sex in-
volved no other gratifications than physical
ones, no married woman, whether savage or
civilized, would invite the punishments that
have always fallen most heavily upon women.
The Desire to follow Individual prefer-
ence in the sex relation is the natural pathway
toward true marriage. At the same time, it
appears as the incorrigible factor in legal
marriage. A careful review of the conjugal
customs and characteristics of savagery show
the same Individual Struggle for Happiness
that moves the developed. The amours of the
264
LEGAL MARRIAGE
Hottentot will not bear discussion by refined
people, and yet, back of those gross practices
is the same motive which impels the cultured
gentleman to seek the lady of his choice, an
overwhelming and overmastering Desire for
Individual Satisfaction and Happiness.
From the lowest to the highest stage of de-
velopment the Natural Law of Affinity con-
tinually operates to improve the legal system
and to establish it upon the basis of Individ-
ual Love, as well as upon rational judgment.
Another factor has been in operation toward
the improvement of marriage which has not
been considered by itself.
Legal marriage represents the struggle for
equilibrium. The monogamous marriage
system of the highly developed nations rep-
resents that struggle and the near approach
to the true balance between man and woman.
Physical science, in considering the evolu-
tion of marriage, says: "The greatness of a
nation is measured by the position its women
occupy." Natural Science could not state that
truth more strongly. For corroboration of
this the reader is referred to the history of
nations. He is asked to study the existing
265
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
governments of the earth. In this study he
will satisfy himself that all the inferior na-
tions of the earth hold their women in sub-
jection or bound to unnatural customs. Not-
able among the nations where the perversion
of the sex principle has arrested develop-
ment, are China, Japan and Turkey.
Man-made laws, whether in the name of
government or religion, have imposed ter-
rible penalties upon women. They have, as
well, imposed penalties upon men and upon
nations. Not only woman, but man and the
nation, pay the apparent penalty of ignorant
rulings and unnatural sex laws. Just in pro-
portion as man perverts the natural, equal and
reciprocal sex relation, in that exact propor-
tion he is degraded and his nation is weak-
ened. Japan, the most ambitious of all the
eastern nations, cannot hope for great devel-
opment until her women have been liberated
from servile obedience to men, and both men
and women have been liberated from the de-
grading efifects of ancestry worship.
Natural Science and philosophy based
upon that science, stand squarely for the pres-
ervation of the legal institution of monogamic
266
LEGAL MARRIAGE
marriage. This position is based upon sev-
eral considerations:
Law and order are a necessary part of
man's rational development.
Legal marriage is a natural and legitimate
accompaniment of the rational and moral de-
velopment of the sex relation.
Legal marriage conserves the earthly and
material interests of the Individual man and
v^oman. It conserves the material and moral
interests of children, of society and of the
nation.
The legal system of monogamic union rep-
resents the physical, spiritual and psychical
relation of man and woman.
This position must be understood to mean:
Opposition to everything that would over-
throw the monogamic system, and relieve In-
dividuals of their personal responsibility to
children and to society.
Uncompromising hostility, toward that
moral laxity which would substitute either
"free-love" or a licensed polygamy for our
own rational, moral and natural system of
7nonogamic union.
It is confidently hoped that such explicit
267
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
statement will never be confounded with the
countless matrimonial vagaries of would-be
reformers. It is hoped that the philosophy
laid down in this work may not be misinter-
preted by those who, through general preju-
dices, distrust any Individual or any school
that seeks to improve the marriage relation.
What is said does not imply that our mo-
nogamic system is the ideal fulfilled. It does
mean that in outward form and by intent,
our legal code represents the true relation of
man and woman. Our legal code presup-
poses that the marriage of rvvo Individuals
represents a free and natural selection with a
perfect community of interests, material,
intellectual and moral. Acting upon this
supposed declaration on the part of the In-
dividuals, it unites them (by intention) for
life.
Whatever may be the Individual disap-
pointment and suffering under our legal sys-
tem, it is not through fault of the civil code.
Instead, it is because of the mis-mated na-
tures which the code continues to bind when
respect and common interests between the
pair are gone. These penalties are not due
268
LEGAL MARRIAGE
to legal restrictions. They are the results of
ignorant, hasty and mercenary marriage.
They are the results of legal marriage which
contravenes natural marriage, and not the
effects of a faulty legal system.
When parents, teachers, society and the
law, labor to prevent unnatural marriage,
there will be found less and less friction in
legal marriage. The root of all matrimonial
unhappiness lies outside and prior to legal
marriage itself.
The man and woman who marry rationally,
and whose mutual relations are based upon
Universal Principles, will not condemn the
monogamic code. To such as these the obli-
gations, restrictions and requirements of legal
marriage are accepted as the highest earthly
privileges.
Legal marriage, as well as all other forms
of sex union, represents the Struggle for
Happiness. Every man-made custom and
code which sought to improve the marriage
relation, represents the rational effort to ef-
fect changes which would increase human
Happiness. The fact that the legal code is an
infinite series of legal reversals, corrections
269
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
and amendments, shows that the true relation
has not yet been attained. Man confesses this
failure by his own reversals, and by every new
amendment he offers. Every experiment
shows that man has labored to achieve an
Individually Happy marriage relation.
The best legal minds among the best de-
veloped races agree that monogamous mar-
riage is accompanied by the best results,
physically, morally, socially and nationally.
They are satisfied that monogamous and in-
dissoluble union is the true type of marriage.
No great jurist would claim that our Ameri-
can code is flawless, nor that our civil regu-
lation of marriage is absolutely equitable. In
fact, the continual modifications of our pres-
ent statutes is a confession that the legal mind
has not reached its own ideal of a perfect
marriage system.
Our monogamic civil code is a rational
approach to the true relation.
Natural Science stands for the legal code,
as well as for the natural union of man and
woman. It stands firmly for the moral obli-
gations of the legal system.
Whatever tends to prevent Natural mar-
270
LEGAL MARRIAGE
riage, or union by Love, is detrimental to the
Individual, to offspring and to the race.
Whatever tends to v^eaken the monogamic
legal system is detrimental to the material and
moral interests of the Individual, of children,
of society and of the nation.
The civil code looks only to the material,
physical and social interests of men, women
and children. Nature looks only to a com-
pleted Individual through vibratory corre-
spondences, physical, spiritual and psychical.
Natural Science looks to Individual Happi-
ness through and by a perfect physical, spir-
itual and psychical Affinity, sanctioned and
guarded by all legal ceremonies and pro-
visions.
Civil law is distinctly the outgrowth of
Soul capacities. Every code of laws stands
for the recognition of an Individual respon-
sibility. It is only the lowest of human beings
who would be a law unto himself. The very
first step man takes in the direction of law and
order is a surrender of some of the things he
has heretofore held as Individual rights. He
recognizes the fact that Individual concession
means the betterment of the community. He
271
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
sees himself as a part of that community, en-
joying certain other privileges which com-
pensate for his concessions.
This, in fact, is law and the intent of law,
to secure the general good through Individ-
ual concession and Individual restraint.
Civil law implies that the good of society
demands the proper care and rearing of its
children. It assumes that the natural par-
ents are the proper legal custodians and pro-
tectors of their own children.
The civil marriage codes of the superior
nations are in perfect accord with Nature's
intent. That is, they grant every subject man
and woman a prior right to free selection in
marriage. At this point the law joins with
Nature to furnish every Soul the opportun-
ity to secure its Individual Happiness. After
that choice is made the law, again reflecting
the higher nature of man, binds those volun-
tary partners to a full responsibility for all of
the consequences of that contract.
When once that choice is made and the con-
tract signed their relation is no longer an in-
dividual question. It is one that affects
society in general.
272
CHAPTER XXVI
DIVORCE
Men and women seeking self-adjustment
are misled into unions which furnish but a
temporary and imperfect correspondence.
The struggle for Self-Completion and the
struggle for Happiness soon impel them to
separation. The natural Law of Affinity con-
tinually operates to render the bond intoler-
able. Those stronger attractions which im-
pel separation may be a place, a person, an
ambition, or it may be the natural desire of
liberty for the pursuit of Happiness.
Unnatural human marriage engenders
strife, resentment and mutual dislike. In this
particular human marriage is unique in the
kingdoms of Nature. Two animals mate and
divorce themselves without engendering mu-
tual dislike and hate. This is because they in-
stantly respond to the natural law of attrac-
tion which draws them elsewhere. They in-
273
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
stantly obey the dictates of those lower Life
Elements which go to make up the animal.
In human marriage the responsibilities and
obligations growing out of the Soul Element
have created legal and moral barriers to
unrestrained divorce. In human society the
Individual is not permitted to follow the dic-
tates of new attractions. He is bound to an
inharmonious mate until natural inharmony
is deepened into a definite and aggressive dis-
like.
The phenomenon of "repulsion," like the
law of attraction, is accentuated in each
higher kingdom. The "repulsion" which oc-
curs between two atoms is a different thing
from that which obtains between two rational
beings forcibly bound in an intimate relation.
Chemical atoms are continually seeking closer
affinities. Chemical "repulsion" is but an un-
conscious incident in the operation of the
Law of Attraction. Even in animal life sepa-
ration appears as a part of the process by
which the animal forms a more desirable as-
sociation. It is an act apparently without In-
dividual hostility or moral significance.
In human marriage "repulsion" is intensi-
r4
DIVORCE
fied, first, by the energies of the Soul Ele-
ment, and next, by the legal restraint imposed
after natural separation has occurred. The
introduction of the Soul Element into mar-
riage intensifies both attraction and "repul-
sion" and adds moral responsibility to both
the act of separation and that of legal di-
vorce.
The very Element which transforms mar-
riage into a rational and moral relation is the
same Element v^hich imposes legal restraint
and causes unhappiness where the marriage is
inharmonious. The animal frees himself so
easily from an undesired relation that he suf-
fers nothing from his experiment. In legal
marriage, the natural inharmony of two na-
tures is aggravated by restraint into an active
and Individual hostility. While the animal
is free to follow the natural law of Affinity,
the Individual man or woman is bound to an
object which directly bars the way to the pur-
suit of Happiness in another direction.
Though the law of attraction operates in
human life with increased energy, man him-
self has erected barriers which restrict the
free and public expression of that law. Man
275
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
responds to the Universal Law of Affinity as
readily as the animal, but he also recognizes
the responsibilities which Nature has im-
posed. Because of such recognition he under-
takes to regulate marriage for the best good
of other rational beings like himself. In this
effort he formulates laws, marks out duties
and raises barriers which would seem to in-
terfere with Nature.
For this reason legal marriage and legal
divorce are just as natural as are the free se-
lections and separations of animals. While
the dissolution of marriage in lower nature is
an unconscious act, legal divorce in human
life is a voluntary and rational act directly
chargeable to the contracting parties.
Both human and animal divorce are acts
incidental to the same Universal Principle:
That prlnxiple which impels every
entity to seek vibratory correspondence
in another like entity of opposite po-
LARITY.
Nevertheless, human and animal divorce
must be considered from points of view as
widely different as are the controlling Ele-
ments in the life of man and that of animals.
a7(
DIVORCE
Legal divorce is the concession made by
society to Individuals who are mismated.
Legal divorce is admission of the fact that a
natural separation has already occurred be-
tween the legally bound. The difficulties with
which legal divorce is attended go to show
that the law is considering the obligations of
marriage rather than the desires of the Indi-
vidual for liberty.
Legal divorce is one of the expressions of a
rational Soul which has risen to the consider-
ation and control of its own aflfairs. This is
in conformity to Nature, for each great king-
dom of Nature is directly governed by its own
highest element.
The law of marriage is based upon the ef-
fort to regulate the relation between the sexes
for the best interests of society. The law of
divorce is based upon exactly the same intent.
It is a law looking, not to the Happiness of
the Individual, but to the best material and
moral interests of society.
Divorce must be viewed from the point of
Individual responsibility to society and not
from the point of an Individual personal
Happiness.
277
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
In the relation of parents and children,
arises that moral responsibility which must
take precedence of all questions as to the hap-
piness or unhappiness of parents. Here is in-
volved an issue that does not obtain in animal
life, but is of vast importance in human so-
ciety. It may be true that the Individual man
and woman were impelled to union by tem-
porary correspondence of passion such as
moves the animal to union. There may also
arise the same "repulsion" which would im-
mediately separate animals. This separation
is as natural to humans as to animals when the
principle of harmony is outraged.
Here, but not as with the animals, the Soul
Life Element asserts itself, new considerations
enter in and a new principle is evoked for the
government of Nature's higher marriages.
Animal marriage and separation represent
the irrational and irresponsible obedience to
the Universal Law of Affinity. Human legal
marriage may be irrational and irresponsible,
but in addition it represents an independent,
rational contract, imposing present and fu-
ture obligations. This legal contract implies,
not only the mutual loyalty of the two who
278
DIVORCE
unite, but it also implies an obligation to the
children of that union and to society in gen-
eral. Legal divorce is regulated for the good
of society alone, and the law holds that the
best good of society rests with the proper care
and training of children. Because of this fact
it finally comes to mean that the question of
divorce must be regulated for the good of the
child, and not by later impulses, passions or
desires of the parents.
The human infant has been brought into
the world by the self-conscious, voluntary
and responsible act of its parents. It appears
in response to a natural law that has been
evoked by two Intelligent Beings fully ac-
quainted with the consequences of the law.
This fixes an obligation which does and
should take precedence, in both law and con-
science, of every personal desire and de-
mand.
This recognition of moral responsibility to
offspring separates human from animal Intel-
ligence and raises human life immeasurably
beyond the life of the animal.
Parental responsibility is read from the
book of Nature with equal clearness by sci-
279
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ence, by law and by religion. Modern phys-
ical science demonstrates physical responsi-
bility in heredity. The proven facts of hered-
ity show that a large proportion of children
born are the victims of parental deformity
and disease. The Law, which represents the
rational Intelligence of man, holds that par-
ents are responsible for the physical, material
and intellectual well-being of their own chil-
dren. Religion, which represents the moral
principles in man, declares that parents are
as responsible for the moral training of their
children as for their physical and material
comfort or their intellectual development.
With the several findings of science, law
and religion, Natural Science and its corre-
lated philosophy agree. Both science and
Nature declare that every human infant has
certain natural and inalienable rights:
A perfect physical body.
Material care and provision until old
enough to he self-sustaining.
Intellectual and moral training under the
daily, personal supervision of both parents.
When the average Intelligence rises to a
clear perception of the moral obligation to
280
DIVORCE
children the demand for divorce will decrease
in proportion. When the average man and
v^^oman recognize their full moral obligation
to their own children they will seek to fulfill
rather than to evade that duty. This they will
do irrespective of present personal desires.
This moral obligation will preserve the mar-
riage tie, in form at least, even when the rela-
tion falls short of the ideal.
It is safe to say that this mutual obligation
to children, rather than Love, binds a ma-
jority of married pairs. In thousands of
households the physical relation of husband
and wife is dissolved, while the relation of
father and mother safeguards the children in
their material and moral rights.
There are flagrant breaches of loyalty and
of decency and of marital duties which justify
and necessitate divorce.
Certain of our own states have gone so far
as to recognize that there is a psychical as
well as a physical and financial relation in
marriage. When "Incompatibility" was
added to the statutory grounds for divorce,
the legal mind had come to recognize a higher
principle in marriage than either physical fit-
281
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ness or chattel rights. "Incompatibility of
temper," means neither physical disloyalty,
criminal conduct, nor failure to meet the ma-
terial obligations.
Instead, it means temperamental friction
and conflict of natures in the intellectual
and moral life. "Incompatibility" stands
for discordant vibratory conditions and for an
inharmonious alliance between two Intelli-
gent Souls. This is one of the legal grounds
of divorce which could be avoided through
the mutual Intelligence and Self-Control of
any two Individuals. No matter whether
they love, or do not love, in the sense of hus-
band and wife, any two people may adjust
themselves to a mutually respectful and mu-
tually friendly relation. This is their duty
when the best interests of their children are
involved.
Except for the mutual obligation to chil-
dren, the law might profitably divorce mis-
mated pairs upon their mutual request. The
breaking of a burdensome contract between a
childless couple would in no sense be detri-
mental to society. On the contrary, it would
282
DIVORCE
benefit the Individuals, giving them fresh op-
portunities for self-development.
Neither science, lav^, religion nor society is
conserved by the forced intimate association
of any one man and woman who are without
children. In such cases the "collusion" of
such a pair, instead of being a legal ofifense,
should be the one proper reason and condition
of divorce.
It is impossible to discuss legal divorce
without reference to the Ecclesiastical Codes,
which are felt by a large number of people to
be even more binding than the legal contract.
Ecclesiastical marriage has been universally
more oppressive than the civil codes.
While the Church recognizes a universal
principle in marriage, it fails to recognize the
mistakes of men and women in entering into
that relation, and makes no provision for such
mistakes.
"No divorce" is as iniquitous as too easy di-
vorce. There are marriage relations which it
is immoral and dangerous to sustain. A separa-
tion that is not legalized is a blight to any life.
"No divorce" is more conductive to general
283
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
immorality than is an easy divorce system.
BetAvcen the good of society and the natural
rights of the Individual the law should en-
deavor to deal equitably. The divorce laws
of our many states are fair representatives of
the various stages of development and the sec-
tional differences which obtain in the several
legal jurisdictions.
The intent of law, as well as of Nature, is
monogamous and indissoluble union. Divorce
is the legal recognition of failure of Nature's
purpose. Legal divorce testifies to the viola-
tion of natural law, as well as the violation of
a legal contract. It must be recognized as an
expedient and a compromise. It must be ac-
cepted as one of those apparent penalties
which man is perpetually paying through ig-
norant experiment in natural law.
Nature's effort is to effect indissoluble
union. Divorce represents the protest of the
Individual against unnatural relations which
he has ignorantly assumed. The demand for
divorce is a demand for Individual Liberty
in the pursuit of Happiness.
Divorce, in itself, is not a factor in develop-
ment. It is no part of either intellectual or
284
DIVORCE
moral progress. One may suffer smallpox
from having unwittingly exposed himself.
That experience is valueless except by way of
warning to avoid contagious disease. Small-
pox weakens and mars the physical body, and,
temporarily at least, interferes with all of the
interests and activities of life.
A keener sense of moral responsibility
would decrease the number of divorces, and
would lessen the number of young men and
women who ignorantly bind themselves in un-
natural and loveless marriage.
Legal enactments would not effect this im-
provement forced upon society. The mere
enactment of statutory law does not necessar-
ily compel the improvement which it implies.
The improvement of human relations comes,
in reality, through the gradual improvement
and self-development of Individual men and
women. Human beings are restrained, but
they are not necessarily made better nor
wiser nor happier, by acts of law.
Nor is the proper development of law pos-
sible until the averagie Intelligence and the
average morality demand revision and amend-
ment. Neither marriage nor divorce can be
285
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
legally improved to any extent until the pub-
lic, through education, demands reform.
The prevention of false relations and con-
sequent suffering and divorce rests upon mar-
riage which conforms to Nature's law. It
rests upon marriage which fulfills the Uni-
versal Law of Affinity.
Our present stage of intellectual and moral
development promises these improved rela-
tions for our younger generations. The slow
processes of evolution have already brought
the highest type of men and women into an
approach to the true sex equilibrium. To the
most advanced of both sexes marriage has
come to be recognized as a relationship which
must be contracted, guarded and fulfilled In-
telligently under the laws of Nature and man.
There is but one natural and just preventive
of legal divorce. That is marriage which
satisfies the Principle of Polarity or Affinity.
There is but one path to true marriage,
—
through a rational knowledge of that princi-
ple governing true marriage and through the
honest endeavor of free men and women to
seek union in accordance with their knowl
edge of that principle.
286
CHAPTER XXVII
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
The three natures of a normally developed
man are equally developed. The equilateral
triangle is a proper representation of the nor-
mally developed, or perfectly balanced man.
The equilateral triangle (fig. 1) is a plane
figure, bounded by three equal sides and hav-
ing three equal angles.
Let the base line, MN, represent the phys-
ical side of man, MA, the spiritual, and NA,
the psychical. The three lines are the same
in length.
The three angles at M, A, and N are
equal.
In the normally developed man, the Soul
287
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
NA, sustains an equal relationship to the
spiritual body, MA, and the physical body,
MN.
There is perfect harmony at every point
of the Individual who is equally balanced.
The lines of a geometric figure have but
one dimension; length. In figure I the lines
are supposed to be geometric lines, possessing
but the one dimension of length.
Such a figure does not properly represent
the triune nature of man. For this reason,
figure 2 has been substituted. Here is the
same equilateral triangle, but with shaded
lines, the base line, MN, being a heavy line,
the oblique line, MA, a medium line, and
the oblique, NA, a hair line. This figure has
been chosen with special reference to the
scientific explanation necessary in this con-
nection.
The physical body of man is the coarest of
the three natures. It is properly represented
by the heavy base line, MN. The finer spirit-
ual organism is best represented by the me-
dium line, MA, while the Intelligent Soul is
properly represented by the hair line, NA.
288
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
The base line, MN, is composed of a tow
string one-fourth of an inch in diameter.
The oblique line, MA, is a silk cord one-
sixteenth of an inch in diameter.
The oblique line, NA, is the finest possible
silver thread, a thread so fine as to be no more
than visible.
Having in mind a triangle so constructed,
the reader may obtain a clear conception of
the actual relationship of the physical body,
the spiritual body and the Soul. Set three
sides of the triangle in vibratory motion.
The coarse string, MN, will vibrate slowly.
The more slender cord, MA, will vibrate
more rapidly. The third, NA, will move at
a still higher rate of vibratory action.
While the length of the sides is the same,
they vibrate at entirely different ratios.
The base line, MN, vibrates slowly, being
large in size and low in tension. The line,
MA, vibrates more rapidly, being smaller in
size and higher in tension. The same is true
of the line, NA. This line is almost incon-
ceivably smaller and higher in tension. In
consequence, its vibratory action is immeas-
urably increased.
289
HARM()NICS OF EVOLUTION
Scientifically, the triune nature of man cor-
responds to the three sides of a triangle as
here represented. They naturally sustain to
each other this vibratory relation. When
man is normally or equally developed in each
of his three natures, their vibratory action
sustains a perfect harmonic relation to one
another.
Suppose the vibratory action of the base
line, MN, were represented by the number
3. Any multiple of this number would con-
stitute a harmonic. The line, MA, should
represent some multiple of three, as nine,
twenty-seven, eighty-one, etc., while the line,
NA, should be keyed to a harmonic relation
with both of the other lines.
Man, whether in the grossest or most high-
ly developed condition, has three natures,
unlike in degrees of refinement and vibratory
action; or, to return to our figure, man is
always a triangle and that triangle always
has three sides unequal in point of refine-
ment and vibratory action.
Natural Science determines that the vibra-
tory action of the two material bodies is gov-
erned by the Intelligent Ego.
290
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
The Soul is the important factor in the
evolution of man.
Development embraces an equal and steady
improvement in all of the members and or-
gans of the physical body, in all of the mem-
bers and organs of the spiritual body, and in
all of the pov^ers and capacities of the Soul.
Out of such development, only, does the
equilateral triangle rise.
Only by a steady and harmonic activity in
all the three phases of life does man properly
develop his triune nature. He thus attains to
that admirable condition of Poise, physically,
spiritually and psychically, which is so read-
ily recognized, but so little understood. Such
a man gives us the example of one who is
strong, brave, sympathetic, wise, just and
merciful.
Man, as we usually find him, represents
every conceivable stage of development ex-
cept the perfect. He represents every kind
of triangle except the equilateral.
Figure 3 may be said to represent the prim-
itive man, scarcely risen from the purely ani-
mal conditions. It represents a man whose life
is lived almost entirely upon the physical
291
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
plane, or in the enjoyment of sensations re-
ceived through the physical organs of sense.
Both the spiritual body and the Soul fall far
short of their proper development.
Such a man possesses neither keen intui-
tions nor good Intelligence. He has gross
ambitions, appetites and passions, which he
lives to gratify. Such a figure represents man
in the lower grades of civilization.
Figure 4 is but a slight variation upon fig-
ure 3. The base line is the same, the strongest
of the three. Here the Soul, though slow in
development, is yet stronger. This indicates
a certain exercise of the Intelligence. Such a
man is equally gross with the other, with no
keener intuitions but better reasoning power.
He is a man of equally strong appetites and
passions, but has a better knowledge of the
things of this life. This figure might well
represent the average Indian chief who rules
in council.
Figure 5 is another slight variation upon
figure 3. The difference here consists in the
292
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
better development of the spiritual body.
Such an Individual will have keener intui-
tions. He or she will be slightly less gross in
physical habits, if not in moral perceptions.
This person will incline to a Strong Desire
for beauty and adornment, but will exhibit
very little Intelligence in such tastes and
adornments. This figure might well repre-
sent the Indian woman who, though as coarse
as her chief, and even less Intelligent, yet ex-
hibits a certain degree of sstheticism in her
decorative work with skins, beads, feathers,
shells and grasses.
Figure 6 represents a man whose life is
lived largely upon the physical plane, with
strong appetites and passions. This long base
line and long Soul line, together with the
short spiritual line, indicate a strong Intelli-
gence operating upon the physical plane.
Such a man about equally divides his life be-
tween physical and intellectual enjoyments
and occupations. He prides himself upon his
rationality. His ambitions and aspirations
are mainly Intellectual, in spite of his strong
physical proclivities. In this man the spirit-
ual organism is overshadowed by the physical,
293
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
and he receives few intuitions from the spir-
itual world. He is, therefore, more naturally
a physical materialist, or an agnostic.
Figure 7 is the direct opposite of the pre-
ceding figure. It has the same heavy base
line. This figure represents a person with a
spiritual organism unusually sensitive. The
shortness of the Soul line and the direction of
the spiritual, indicate a rather low Intelli-
gence and moral perception. The tendencies
of such a person arc mainly physical. While
he has luxurious tastes and desires, his appe-
tites and passions largely govern him. His
intuitions being strong, he is continually in-
spired to finer development. The Intelli-
gence and the moral forces being weak, he is
unable to rise above his Desires. Such a man
we know as well meaning, but weak, sensual
and foolish. Such men do not acquire enough
fame, except by accident, to be cited as ex-
amples
Figure 8 represents an Individual with a
294
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
medium physical organism, average Soul de-
velopment, but strong and sensitive spiritual
organism. This represents a person who is
guided by the impulses and emotions, rather
than by the rational judgments. He is aes-
thetic in his nature, a lover of the arts, though
lacking the Intellectual development neces-
sary to become the artist. Such men as this
often become religious evangelists, but never
philosophers or skeptics. The great evangel-
ists are generally fitting representatives of this
type of man.
This figure represents the large majority of
vs^omen.
Figure 9 represents one whose Soul activi-
ties predominate over both the physical and
spiritual organisms. The lines here indicate
what we would term a purely Intellectual
development. Such an Intelligence would
more naturally incline to the professions of
science, law or philosophy. This represents
a mind too strong for its environment. This
is the type of man who often dies from the
results of over mental work
Figure 10 represents a rare, yet abnormal,
type of development. Such an Individual
295
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
has a very frail physical body and weak phys-
ical strength. He is a highly developed Soul
and has a well-developed spiritual body.
Such a man has strong intuitions, checked
and governed by a fine Intelligence. His im-
pulses never control him. He invariably con-
sults reason. Such development indicates
superior moral perceptions and a keen sense
of justice. There is little physical strength,
consequently the appetites and passions are
below normal. Such men are naturally stu-
dents, philosophers and religious teachers.
The foregoing ten figures represent but ten
distinct types. Ranging between these are
countless variations from the normal or per-
fectly balanced type. These countless varia-
tions might be represented by an equal num
ber of triangles, varying only in the degree of
unequal development.
Figure 11 shows that with the same base
line, there may be almost countless variations
»6
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
in triangles whose upper angles, a, a, a, etc.,
fall outside of the equilateral triangle, MAN.
Figure 12 shows another series of variations
with the same base line. This suggests the
countless triangles which may be built on the
same base line, each triangle having two equal
sides and two equal angles, and the apex of
each triangle falling within the equilateral
triangle.
Figure 13 shows still another series of vari-
ations with the same base line.
The variations in the triangle are practic-
ally infinite in number. Nor can the student
fail to see how truly they represent man as we
know him.
The figures from 14 to 16 are triangles
showing the variations which may occur
where the line MA is common to all.
The figures from 17 to 19 represent trian-
gles which have the common line, NA.
297
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
These illustrations must suggest even t(j the
most thoughtless:
The infinite variations of Individual char-
acter.
ii(j.; »•'« f.^.^
The difficulties of reaching a perfect bal-
ance between the triune natures of the Indi-
vidual.
Natural Science does not designate a per-
fectly balanced man, as a perfect man. It
does not even define him as a Completed In-
dividual. It must he remembered that the
normal balance of the thret natures may occur
in an Individual of very low general develop-
ment. A man may represent any sized equi-
lateral triangle.
See the figures 21 to 25 mciusive. Each
figure of this series is an equilateral triangle
with lines similarly shaded. Each represents
29S
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
a man normally developed. Each represents
a different degree of development, or what
we might define as a different degree of ma-
turity. Each differs from the other in stature
of physical body, spiritual body and power
of Soul. The first figure of the series indi-
cates what we naturally designate as an under
sized Individual, but one who is worthy as
far as he goes. Such an Individual is weak
in physical body, in spiritual body and in
Soul. The last figure of the series represents
a man whose physical body, spiritual body
and Soul are unusually strong, fine and bril-
liant. This type of man becomes the hero
among the common people.
Even among so-called great men, such
types are rare. Conspicuous are the few
whom their fellow men accept as standards
of manly development.
Such as these meet the requirements of
physical proportion and strength, of intuition,
of rational judgment and of moral sensibility.
The fact that there are any such as these
proves the possibilities in human nature. It
suggests also the mighty undertaking of Na-
299
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ture which aims at even greater development
of these harmoniously balanced Individuals.
It has already been shown that the human
family, in its Individual developments and
abnormalities, represents an infinity of diver-
sity. It must now be recalled that this infinity
of diversity is sharply divided into masculine
and feminine. It must be remembered that
Nature is forever seeking to establish vibra-
tory correspondence or equilibrium of forces
between these masculine and feminine halves
of humanity. By keeping Nature's purpose
(which is equilibrium of forces), and the
purpose of the Individual (which is Self-
Completion), clearly in mind, it may be bet-
ter conceived why evolution is a process re-
quiring unmeasured time. It will be more
easily understood why the Individual so often
fails to achieve his purposes. It will be better
understood why true marriage is so rarely ac-
complished during this eartly life.
Figure (a) represents two unequal trian-
gles having in common only the base line.
300
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
The shaded triangle, MAN, represents man,
while the dotted triangle MaN represents
woman. By referring back to figures 3 and 4
there will be no difficulty in reading the mar-
riage relationship illustrated in figure (a).
Here are represented two people of equally
low general development. Their one line of
correspondence or sympathy, is the physical.
The man has a somewhat better psychical de-
velopment, while the woman is the more sen-
sitive upon the spiritual side. This means
that while these two are equally gross as to
the physical life, the man has the better ra-
tional Intelligence, while the woman has the
keener intuitions. Except in physical life,
they have no sympathies. Such persons have
little aspiration above the physical. It is
mainly a marriage of passions and appetites.
This, perhaps, represents the commonest type
of mismating among people of low develop-
ment and strong physical natures. Such per-
sons continually mistake these physical cor-
respondences and sympathies for love. They
are misled into unions which scarcely suggest
the true relation of marriage.
In figure (b) is represented another very
301
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
common type of mismating. The only differ-
ence between this and figure (a) is the supe-
rior development which obtains in the spirit-
ual body and the Soul. While both are push-
ing the lines of their lives upward, they are
not the same lines. The Individual relation-
ship is not improved. In fact, it indicates
greater possibilities for discord and unhappi-
ness. Both of these people have ambitions
and aspirations far above the physical. They
have not the same ambitions and aspirations.
The height and inclination of the masculine
line, NA, indicate a man well developed in
rational lines, while the height and inclina-
tion of the feminine line, Ma, indicate a
woman with a very sensitive spiritual or-
ganism.
Both of these Individuals have strong phys-
ical natures with correspondingly strong ap-
petites and passions. The physical is the one
line of coincidence. This physical correspond-
ence yields nothing but temporary satisfac-
tion to people thus developed. Each has risen
to other demands and other necessities than
the physical. Unfortunately they are not the
same demands and necessities.
302
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
The order of masculine Intelligence here
represented would incline the man to the pur-
suit of practical knowledge, such as the study
of law, medicine and the sciences. The order
of feminine Intelligence here represented
would incline the woman to that which is ar-
tistic and aesthetic. She would occupy her
Intelligence, mainly, with matters of luxury
and comfort, and with ideas of beauty in
dress, decoration, etc.
The man would pride himself on his "ra-
tionalism" and good sense. He would have
few intuitions himself, nor patience with
those who had. The woman, on the contrary,
would live in her impulses and emotions and
trust to her "impressions" for guidance.
While these people are well mated physic-
ally, they are far less companionable than a
man and woman of lesser development who
look entirely to physical gratifications for
their pleasures. The man would crave com-
panionship in his Intellectual life, his ambi-
tions and aspirations. He would need a sym-
pathetic co-worker in the acquirement and
use of practical knowledge. The woman
would crave companionship in her aesthetic
303
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
life. She would need a sympathetic Soul to
share her emotions, impulses and impressions.
She requires appreciation for her endeavors
to beautify the home, to adorn herself, and to
make a figure in society.
For such a pair there is nothing in mar-
riage but perpetual misunderstanding and
irritation and disappointment. To such a
man this woman would appear as irrational,
sentimental and shallow. To such a woman
this man would appear as cold, unsympa-
thetic and narrow.
Both may be honest, but neither can be
happy in a relation which furnishes but one
line of coincidence.
Figure (c) represents a curiously assorted
couple, harmonious only on the physical
plane. The man here represented shows an
unusual psychical development, in the wrong
direction. Here is a good Intelligence pros-
tituted to base uses. It runs parallel with the
earth, rather than in an ascending line. This
indicates a mind occupied with selfish ambi-
tion and with sordid gain. This figure would
well represent the money-getter, the great
financier who makes his millions in total dis-
304
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
regard of honesty, of justice and of common
humanity. Such a man may have little edu-
cation. He is without natural refinement.
He is, nevertheless, hard-headed, practical,
capable, and a powder in the business world.
This is the type of man who boasts of being
"self-made." This is, indeed, a fact which he
mistakenly fancies is to his credit.
The woman here represented shows an un-
usually strong spiritual development, in the
wrong direction. The lines indicate an ex-
tremely sensitive spiritual organism, but a
very low grade of Intelligence. Such a wo-
man, if wholly uneducated, would be super-
stitious as well as cunning. She would be
given to a consideration of signs, omens, pre-
sentiments, etc. Such a woman, if educated,
is naturally religious, but her religion is as
narrow as the figure which represents her.
Such religion would mean faith without rea-
son, and piety without principle.
Such a woman is impressionable, sensitive
and unreasonable. Her "religion" is merely
an expression of keen intuitions. It is not a
rule of life, based upon rational conceptions
of life.
305
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Such a man and such a woman are, in fact,
perverted from the normal balance. Their
development is in the wrong direction. While
such a woman would easily become the relig-
ious bigot, the man would just as naturally be
a materialist of the most radical type. In
matters pertaining to physical life and to ma-
terial gain, they would find common ground.
When it came to matters of "opinion" and to
matters of "faith" there would be perpetual
and irreconcilable differences.
Who of us, if we jog our memories, but can
recall some couple who fairly approach this
type? It is, unfortunately, a very common
type of matrimonial failure.
Figure (d) represents still another type of
mismating. In this case it is the man who pos-
sesses the more refined spiritual organism. It
is the woman who has the higher and better
grade of Intelligence. Here the physical side
of the union is harmonious, but with those al-
ready given as types from which to study
relations, the reader will have no difficulty in
interpreting this and other double triangles.
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
Figures (e), (f), (g) and (h) represent
other marriages, or rather partnerships be-
tween men and women, where the correspond-
ence is on the physical plane alone.
Figures (i) and (j) are drawn to illustrate
the countless variations which may occur with
any given form of triangle. Figure (i) is a
masculine triangle, suggesting his possibilities
FiA.i
in the selection of a mate. Figure (j) is a
feminine triangle, suggesting the possible
mistakes in the same selection.
Figures (k), (1) and (m) illustrate mis-
fi^X
matings between people who are harmonious
upon the spiritual side only. Neither the
physical nor the Soul lines coincide. As a
result, the bond of union here is in the realm
of intuition, of artistic powers, and aesthetic
307
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
tastes. Such a pair must look for their hap-
piness through mutual sympathies in these
only.
Figures (n), (o), (p) and (q) suggest the
variations which might occur in a mating
where the spiritual alone coincides.
Figures (r), (s) and (t) illustrate the most
unfortunate, and at the same time, a very large
class of marriages. Here are represented the
unions of men and women who have abso-
lutely nothing in common. In neither of these
conjoined triangles are there two lines which
coincide. This means that here are repre-
sented legal partnerships having none of the
elements of natural union. It means relation-
ships without correspondence in any one de-
partment of being, physical, spiritual or psy-
chical.
In such marriage there is no common
308
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
ground. There is the bond of neither pas-
sion, sympathies, intellectual pursuits, nor
moral principles.
These figures fairly represent the conven-
tional, mercenary, political and diplomatic
marriage. They stand for every character of
motive except those of passion, sympathy or
love. These are invariably unhappy mar-
riages, without hope of adjustment. In such
marriage Universal Intelligence teaches Indi-
vidual Intelligence the error of his way
through the discords and disappointments
evoked by his own acts.
Figures (u), (v), (w) and (x) represent
marriages which are perfect in the Soul only.
This, however, is a relation in which there is
hope of final adjustment.
Given a man and a woman in whose Souls
a perfect harmonic obtains, and you have a re-
lation in which there is a basis of develop-
ment. Such a pair are naturally and indis-
solubly bound. There may be differences in
309
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
the degrees of refinement and vibratory ac-
tion of both their bodies, physical and spirit-
ual. They may be unequal in both physical
and spiritual development. In this case the
tendency is to bring those physical and spir-
itual conditions into a harmonious adjust-
ment. When the inharmony of two Individ-
uals lies only in the differences of the Souls'
instruments, those differences will disappear.
A Soul which has the power to improve
and refine either body, and to increase its own
activities in this or that direction, can effect
any change desired. When once a Soul has
recognized its perfect mate, it has then the in-
spiration and therefore the power to work
through all conditions which constitute a
barrier.
A
Figures (y) and (z) represent yet another
type of discordant marriage. Thus far the
figures have represented Individuals of an
average general development. This is the
sio
MATHEMATICS OF MARRIAGE
rule the world over, that people of the same
race, nation and social class, intermarry.
It will be observed that all the previous
figures represent mismatings of people who
have attained to the same general level in life.
Other and more radical violations of the law
may occur. A still more deplorable misalli-
ance is possible.
In figures (y) and (z) is indicated, not
only inharmony upon each side of life, but a
general inharmony in point of average devel-
opment.
Figure (y) might represent the marriage
of a highly developed Caucasian to a middle
class Chinese woman; while figure (z) might
represent the marriage of a delicate, edu-
cated, cultured white woman to an Indian of
the plains. Such a relation as this means de-
generacy to the more highly developed of the
pair. It is an unnatural relation for the less
developed. It is a misery to the one and stu-
pid dissatisfaction to the other. This is a
crime against Nature which Nature but
slowly condones.
Still another form of mismating is revealed
in figures (A) and (B). Here is simply dis-
311
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
proportion as between two normally devel-
oped Individuals. Such a marriage is a fail-
ure, but more especially to the Individual of
the larger stature. In this union is disappoint-
ment, rather than open conflict; for two well-
balanced people, however great the diflFerence
in their general development, will be consid-
erate and amenable to reason. In every such
case the lesser of the two is the happier. As
far as the lines of life coincide the lesser finds
response. The larger nature lives alone. For
him or for her there is no companionship.
The lesser never has enclosed and never can
enclose the greater, whether the proposition
involves two geometric triangles or two hu-
man beings.
Universal Intelligence governs the Mathe-
matics of Marriage.
sia
CHAPTER XXVIII
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
A well-balanced man, physically, spirit-
ually and psychically, does not fulfill the pur-
poses of Nature and the Individual. The
completion of the Individual is not yet ac-
complished. By a unity of the trinity are
established only vs^hat science defines as "pri-
mary" harmonics, harmony of physical body,
spiritual body and Soul. This is the state or
condition of Individual poise and power. It
is not necessarily a state of Self-Comple-
tion. This is the state of being which enables
an Individual more easily to arrive at the next
higher range of harmonics. That next higher
range is defined as "secondary" harmonics.
It refers to harmonics set up by and through
perfect vibratory correspondences with an-
other Individual of opposite Polarity.
Music, like Love, has its mathematical side,
vibration. It has also, like Love, a harmonic
side, which covers the relation of vibrations
313
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
to each other. Finally, as with Love, it has
the side of effects, the value of those vibratory
harmonics when they are reported to the In-
telligent Soul. These effects constitute mu-
sical sounds, or music.
Both activities, of music and Love, rest
upon the same general principle of vibration.
Both are made up of harmonic ratios in vibra-
tory action. Both produce effects upon
human Intelligence which are pleasing and
desirable.
The difference between musical harmonics
and the harmonics of Love is as great as the
difference between atoms and men. The dif-
ference in the value and effects of music and
in the value and effects of Love, can only be
conceived by comparing the activities of at-
mospheric waves, with the activities of Intel-
ligent Souls. The one activity represents only
the vibrations of the atmosphere falling upon
the human ear. The other represents activi-
ties of a Self-Conscious Soul responding to
the activities of another Self-Conscious Soul.
Music represents harmonic relations be-
tween waves of unconscious physical atmos-
phere. Love represents harmonic relations
314
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
between two Intelligent Souls. When mu-
sical harmonics fall upon the ear a Soul ex-
periences a pleasurable sensation. When the
harmonics of Love exist between two Souls
each enjoys Happiness.
// knowledge of the science of music is
deemed an accomplishment, how much
greater an achievement is knowledge of the
science of Love! If a man must know the vi-
bratory theory of music before he can become
a composer, how much more necessary that he
should know at least the rudiments of the
science of Love before he defines himself a
lover!
One may enjoy music without knowing
either the theory or the practice. So one may
Desire Love without knowing either the prin-
ciple or the practices.
One may know the science of music without
being a musician. One may master the vibra-
tory theory of sound waves, may know the
value of every note, and at the same time not
be able to run the scale. So the student of
human nature may master the scientific theory
of Love, may fully comprehend the principle
315
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
of those harmonics, without himself ever hav-
ing experienced the joy of Loving.
A man may be a musician, with a "musical
ear." Such an Individual, without a scintilla
of the technical knowledge of music, may
sing or play fairly well. Nobody will insist
that a technical knowledge of music would in-
terfere with, or detract from, his accomplish-
ment. In the same way, a man or woman
may be a Lover.
Who that knows human nature but will
admit that a rational knowledge of the scien-
tific principle of Love would be a benefit to
mankind?
The Desire for Love, coupled with an un-
developed Intelligence, is the natural victim
of selfishness and lust. The very fact that
woman fundamentally Desires Love, makes
it doubly her duty to study the laws involved.
"Knowledge is power," and the woman who
is able to discriminate between friendship,
passion and Love, either in herself or in an-
other, has the power to avoid all unhappy
complications in the sex relation. The
woman who knows scientifically and ration-
ally what Love is and what it is not, need
316
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
never become the victim of her own Desire
for Love.
To the man or woman who knows the the-
ory of music the science of Love will be clear-
ly intelligible. In the same way the analogies
between the effects of music and the effects of
Love will be more readily comprehended by
the Lover.
The Individual Intelligence recognizes in
Nature two distinct general classes or kinds
of sounds:
Musical sounds.
Sounds which are not musical.
A musical sound involves three distinct
properties:
Pitch, or that property which distinguishes
a musical tone as high or low.
Volume, or that property which distin-
guishes a musical tone as loud or soft.
Quality, or that property which distin-
guishes a musical tone as harsh or mellow,
pleasing or offensive to the sense of hearing.
The pitch of a musical sound is governed by
the number of vibrations per second.
The volume is governed by the distance
317
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
covered by the oscillations of the vibrating
body or substance.
The quality of a musical sound is governed
by the shape of the vibrations or sound waves.
Open the lid of a piano and you will ob-
serve that its strings vary in both length and
size, beginning with the longest and largest
string, which is about six feet long and almost
a quarter of an inch in diameter, and ending
with the shortest and smallest, which is less
than one foot long and no larger than an ordi-
nary thread.
Strike the end key on the left as you face the
instrument, and it will set the largest and
longest string in motion. The sound thus pro-
duced is the lowest tone of the piano. Strike
the end key on the right, and it will set the
shortest and smallest string in motion. The
sound produced is the highest tone of the
piano.
The longest and largest string oscillates or
vibrates about fifty times per second; the
shortest and smallest vibrates about six thou-
sand times per second. The slower the vibra-
tions the lower the pitch, and vice versa.
Strike the end key to the left very hard, and
318
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
watch the longest string closely. It vibrates
at first back and forth over a considerable dis-
tance, and the tone is very loud. The longer
you vi^atch it, the shorter is the distance cov-
ered by the vibrations and the softer the tone
becomes, until the string ceases to vibrate and
the sound dies out entirely. This proves that
the volume of a musical sound is governed by
the distance covered by the oscillations or vi-
brations of the vibrating body or substance.
The sounding board of the piano forms
them into shapes which correspond with its
own particular form or shape. It is differ-
ence of form in the sound waves that produces
the different qualities of tone which we so
easily discover in different instruments or
voices.
As pitch in music is governed by the num-
ber of vibrations per second, so the true pitch
of a human life is governed by the rapidit}' of
all of its activities. The man whose physical
organism is coarse, whose spiritual sensibili-
ties are blunted, and whose moral nature is
low and degraded, represents the lowest pitch
of human life. He holds the keys of his own
development in his own hands. He may raise
319
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
or lower the tone of his life in exact propor-
tion as he refines his physical and spiritual
bodies and elevates his Soul desires.
As the volume of a musical sound is gov-
erned by the distance covered by the oscilla-
tions of the vibrating body, so the volume of a
human life is determined by the distance over
which its influence may be felt. The amount
of energy expended by a Soul through the
physical and spiritual bodies determines the
distance to which its influence may be felt and
its volume extended.
As the quality of a musical sound is gov-
erned by the shape or form of the vibrations
or sound waves, so the quality of a human life
is determined by the form or manner in which
its activities are exerted. Human character is
the common expression for quality in human
life. The key is in the hands of each Individ-
ual. He may make his life harsh or sweet
toward his fellow man, pleasing or offensive,
as he chooses to develop his character.
In all these properties of human life, man
is both instrument and performer at the same
time. The music of his life is what he makes
it. It is the result of his own Intelligence.
320
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
If he would attain to the sweetest and the
loftiest harmonies of life he must make of
himself a perfect instrument, and he alone
must have absolute command of the keyboard
of his own existence.
Begin with middle C on the piano. Strike
the key and hold it with the finger. While the
C string is vibrating strike successively the
notes running up the scale, and carefully ob-
serve the effect each one has upon the vibrat-
ing note C. The first note, D, produces a
most unpleasant effect. It is thoroughly dis-
cordant when sounded with C. The next note,
E, produces a very pleasing effect which
seems to be a musical harmony. The next
note, F, is not so pleasant. The next note, G,
is particularly pleasing in its effect. It is in
very close harmony. The next note, A, pro-
duces a strange effect. It is not so pleasant in
its relation to C. It has a somber or sadden-
ing effect. The next note, B, produces the
most unpleasant effect of all. It is painfully
discordant
Strike the next note, which is C, an octave
above the first note. A most interesting result
follows. Its vibrations blend so perfectly with
321
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
those of lower C, that the most acute ear can
scarcely distinguish the fact that more than
one string is vibrating. The effect is one of
unison rather than of harmony. It is the same
throughout the entire key-board of the piano.
If all the seven C's of the instrument are set
vibrating at the same time the effect is still
one of seeminy unison.
Human life illustrates this same law of re-
lationship, this same law of sympathy. JVher-
ever ive find a man and a woman whose lives
seem to be in perfect unison there is repre-
sented the true marriage relation. They
stand distinctive among the human race.
They are distinguished because Nature has
so provided that the perfect unison of all the
elements in man and woman produces effects
not commtm in society. Such a harmonic uni-
son and such a response between the physical
and spiritual bodies and the Soul of a man
and a woman produce musical effects which
cannot be concealed.
The numbers representing the vibrations of
octaves sustain to each other the ratio of 1 to
2. Seventeen vibrations per second will pro-
duce the lowest tone, C, which the human ear
322
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
can distinguish. 17x2, or 34 vibrations per
second, will produce the next C an octave
above. 34x2, or 68 vibrations per second, will
produce the next C an octave still higher.
68x2, or 136 vibrations per second, will pro-
duce the next octave above, and so on.
Thus, 1 7x2x2x2x2x2x2x2x2x2x2x2 equal
34,816, which is the number of vibrations per
second necessary to produce the highest tone,
C, which the human ear can distinguish.
The human ear can distinguish as musical
tones, a range of only about eleven octaves, or
78 notes of the regular ascending scale. Just
why the number of vibrations of any given
tone multiplied by 2 will produce an octave
above, is not so easily explained. It is a fact
in Nature and as such must be recognized.
Just why the first and third, or the first and
fifth of the scale struck together will produce
a pleasing harmony, while the first and sec-
ond or the first and seventh struck together
will produce the most painful discord, are
facts not easy to explain. They are facts of
Nature, and as such must be recognized. The
pleasing effect of the first and third, and of
the first and fifth, is doubtless due to the vi-
323
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
bratory ratios fixed by Nature between those
particular notes of the scale. A different ratio
between the first and second and the first and
seventh is doubtless responsible for the un-
pleasant effect they produce upon the sensi-
tive ear of the musician.
Take another pair (and of this class there
are many in married life), whose relation is
pleasant though not perfect. Here we have a
relation analogous to the first and third and
the first and fifth of the scale of music. There
is a certain harmony though not a unison.
This illustrates the relation of friendship.
This is not Love. The Ethical state which
such a pair experiences may be likened to the
State which pessimism defines as Happiness,
"the absence of pain." There are others, and a
very large majority of married pairs, whose
relations are most painful and irreconcilable
discords. This unhappy state also depends
upon an unfortunate ratio of relationships.
These discords correspond to the vibratory
relation of the first and second or the first and
seventh of the musical scale.
Take two pianos tuned to the same pitch,
placed on opposite sides of the same room.
324
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
Sit down at one of the instruments and place
your foot upon the loud pedal. Ask some
friend to go to the other piano and strike mid-
dle C. Hold your ear close down over the
key-board and the instant C is struck upon the
other piano you will hear the same string of
the piano before you respond with a clear and
distinct tone. Ask your friend to strike A,
and immediately you will hear the A string
of your own piano respond. Why is this?
Because the vibratory ratings of the same
strings are the same.
It is a principle in Nature that wherever
two different objects have the same vibratory
rate, if one is set in vibratory motion the other
will respond to it. This is not only true of
musical strings, but it is equally true of every-
thing else in Nature. This is due to the har-
monic relations throughout all Nature.
Given two musical strings keyed to the
same pitch located near to each other, and it
is impossible to set one in motion without
causing the other immediately to respond.
Why? Because such is the law of sympathy
between them. The analogy is equally true
and far more beautiful in the law of human
325
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
life. It is the key to the perfect marriage re-
lation, A man and a woman whose lives,
physically, spiritually and psychically, are in
perfect accord, can no more resist this law of
sympathy than two strings keyed to the same
pitch under the conditions above suggested.
But while you are at the piano try another
experiment. Place your foot on the loud
pedal and strike middle C again very softly.
While it is vibrating have your friend strike
the first D above middle C on the other piano
very hard. You will find that your C string
will stop vibrating and you will cease to hear
it. You will hear your D string set up a strong
vibration in response to the D struck by your
friend upon the other piano.
You are prepared to ask why your C string
ceased to vibrate so quickly. In all cases of
discordant notes, the ratio of vibration be-
tween them is such that they neutralize each
other. The waves cross one another in such
manner as to destroy their force. The result
is paralysis of the weaker tone.
The reader will have no difficulty in find-
ing the unhappy parallel in human life. The
marriage relation of all times has furnished
326
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
the painful analogy. A man and a woman
whose lives sustain to each other a vibratory
ratio analogous to the first and second or the
first and seventh of the musical scale, can pro-
duce nothing but discord. Every activity of
the one is neutralized by that of the other.
Life is only a terrible discord resulting in
total paralysis of all that tends toward Love
or Happiness. The overwhelming necessity
for calm study and a rational understanding
of the marriage relation is best indicated by
the records of the divorce courts and the num-
ber of unhappy and mismated men and wo-
men everywhere.
The physical body of man which consti-
tutes one side of the triangle, is an instrument
of itself, upon which may be played all the
tones and harmonics possible to physical na-
ture. Every sensation, impulse, desire, emo-
tion or passion of a Soul is a different string
upon the harp of his physical instrument, the
physical body.
The physical body of man alone represents
all the possibilities of the fullest and most
complete orchestration. The same is true of
his spiritual body, the difference being that it
327
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
covers a different range of harmonics. In the
normally developed man the orchestration of
both his physical and spiritual bodies is upon
the basis of a perfect harmonic relation be-
tween them. The same is true of a Soul.
While it touches the heights of harmonic pos-
sibilities, it is in perfect accord with the two
orchestras of its being.
Imagine the harmonic possibilities of two
such orchestras combined in a single instru-
ment with a performer who could properly
operate them.
Man, even when we consider him alone,
represents infinite harmonic possibilities.
Let the human mind run on until it is weary
with contemplation of the infinite sweetness,
grandeur and power of harmonics inexpress-
ible, and it has only touched upon the border-
land of those realities which flow from a per-
fect union of man and woman in the highest
conception of marriage.
Here, every string of human life in its two-
fold orchestration, finds its responsive har-
monic in another life.
Musical sounds are the result of vibratory
activity. Harmony in music is based upon
328
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
the relations between musical sounds. Har-
mony must be traced back to the same vibra-
tory activity which produces musical sound.
Harmony produces a sensation through the
ear of the listener which is agreeable and
pleasurable. The pleasure we receive from
musical harmonics must depend upon the
same vibratory activity which produces the
musical sounds.
Musical sounds, musical harmonics, and all
the pleasures and joys of a Soul's response
to music, are but Nature's expression of an in-
tense vibratory activity.
Whoever has experienced the deep delight
of listening to the symphonic harmonies of a
grand orchestra under the direction of a mas-
ter of music, will better understand and ap-
preciate the principle it is here designed to
make clear.
Picture the scene as it appears to the eye
from the auditorium of a large theatre. The
orchestra is upon the stage. Count its mem-
bers. There are one hundred different per-
formers. They are playing upon as many
different instruments. Each man's mind and
energies are bent upon performing his partic-
329
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ular part as it is written upon the score in
front of him. He does not know what his
neighbor is doing except as he catches the
sound of his instrument. Watch him closely.
You will see that he is all alive with an in-
tense activity. He is working as if his life
were at stake. Now look at his neighbor and
you will see the same evidences of intense
Individual activity. Take in at a glance the
entire orchestra as it is in the midst of a most
difficult presto, crescendo movement, ap-
proaching a final and brilliant climax. Every
member, from the first violinist down to the
drummer, is exercising all of his energies
properly to execute his particular score. Even
the Impressario is beating the air with his
baton as if he were endeavoring to annihilate
a band of invisible demons.
The picture is one of the most intense en-
ergy and activity. It is one of Individual
activity. It is one of general activity. It is
one of combined activity. But what are the
results? Musical harmonies and pleasurable
sensations.
Musical harmony is not a static condition.
It is the result of the most intense activity.
330
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
So it is in the Love relation of man and
woman. Love is not a static condition. It is
the highest activity of a Soul. It sets in mo-
tion every instrument and every member of
man's two orchestras. It finds its response in
the harmonic activities of the orchestras of
woman. What are the results? The harmon-
ics of life, the happiness of perfect Love.
Natural Science observes, investigates and
demonstrates the harmonics of marriage as it
does the harmonics of music. The man of
average Intelligence is able to comprehend
that music represents the principle of vibra-
tory correspondence in operation. It requires
a higher order of Intelligence to comprehend,
much less to demonstrate, that Love is the
same principle in operation.
Such is the Law^.
With this understanding of the principle
and processes involved in the harmonics of
Love, it may sound paradoxical to say that
Love is a state of rest.
Literally, the activities of Love are the
farthest removed of all activities from a state
of rest or inertia. In an ethical sense, the har-
monics of that activity induce a condition of
331
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
mind whicli is termed by the poets as rest.
The word "rest," in this connection, really
stands for that perfect equilibrium and har-
mony of activities which obtain in a reciprocal
love relation. It represents that condition
where all activities of all the elements in a
man and woman constitute a perfect har-
monic.
The "rest" which Love confers upon a Soul
represents a state of the most intense activity.
It is a tremendous increase of energy and ac-
complishment in every department of a Soul.
That increase of activity is so free from fric-
tion and so reinforced by a mutual response
as to produce upon an Intelligent Soul only
the sense of relaxation, freedom and rest.
That "divine unrest," of which the poets
sing, is simply the absence of the true har-
monic relations in life. The charm of fine
music is the sense of relaxation and rest which
follows upon its perfect harmonies. Music
is the refuge of tired Souls. It rests a Soul
from the friction of daily living.
In countless lives music is the only substi-
tute for Love. How many lonely men anil
women are there who, deprived of Love, seek
332
HARMONICS OF MARRIAGE
natural and needed rest in the harmonies of
sound? Indeed, music is the natural consola-
tion of lonely, loveless lives.
Music and Love correspond in their gen-
eral effects. Both musical harmonies and the
harmonies of mutual Love produce upon In-
telligence, under various conditions, a sense
of exhilaration, of recreation, of relaxation
and rest. But these are only the general ef-
fects. Both music and Love have infinite
moods and variations, with infinite shadings
in efifects. Those moods and variations must
represent the Natural L2lw of harmony. The
standards of music and the standards of Love
are as fixed and immutable as the Law of
Motion and Number which governs both
activities.
Chinese music is but another expression of
the perversions in Chinese character. It is
not music. It is discord. It is noise which
contravenes every principle of harmony. To
instruct that nation in natural harmony of
sound alone would tend to establish therein
a normal marriage system. Neither a man
nor a nation that delights in discord can ap-
preciate the natural harmonies of Love.
333
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Neither music nor Love is the result of ar-
bitrary arrangement. They are npt creatures
of man-made customs and laws. Neither are
they illusions nor habits of thought. They are
definite activities governed by Universal
Principles. They arc verities in exactly the
same sense that the Electro-Magnetic and the
Vito-Chemical Life Element are verities.
The harmonics of marriage depend upon
conformity to the eternal principle of Af-
finity. Such marriage represents that state or
condition wherein all of the physical, spir-
itual and psychical activities of two human
beings constitute a perfect harmonic as to
pitch, volume and quality.
Individual Inlellitjence governs the Har-
monics of Marriage, and enjoys the music, or
suffers from the discords which marriage it-
self produces.
tS4
CHAPTER XXIX
ETHICS OF MARRIAGE
To expect a Lover to keep the Vibratory
Principle continually in mind, would be like
insisting that an epicure should consider the
processes of alimentation whenever he sat at
a dainty feast.
The Lover seeks his beloved with the same
intent that moves the audience to seek the
musician. What the Lover Desires, and all
that he Desires, are the ethical effects of
Love; those exhilarating and inspiring sen-
sations, impressions and emotions which he
is to share with another. He cares nothing,
generally knows nothing of the vibratory
principle which governs the impulses, pas-
sions and emotions which he experiences. He
has no knowledge of the vibratory conditions
which Loving induces. He has no remote
idea that by the very act of Loving he changes
the vibratory conditions of both his physical
and spiritual organisms. The Lover, first and
335
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
last, is seeking his own Happiness, which is
bound up in the Happiness of one other hu-
man being.
It is not until a philosopher becomes the
Lover that the Lover concerns himself with
the science of Love.
So the average man everywhere is Individ-
ually concerned with the effects of Love in-
stead of its mathematical processes. The ob-
ject of Individual Intelligence is its own Ethi-
cal Content. Individual Intelligence investi-
gates the mathematics only as a final means
to its desired Ethical ends.
War, art, science, law, literature, religion,
philanthropy and "society" represent activ-
ities in which Individual Intelligence is at-
tempting the solution of this question. The
important consideration in this instance, is
whether the Lover, after all, is not the wisest
of all experimenters.
If the normality of Happiness be doubted
let the reader study mankind and himself.
What principle in Nature is it that impels
an Individual to conceal his unhappiness
from the world as if it were a deformity or a
disease?
336
ETHICS OF MARRIAGE
Unhappiness is as clearly an abnormal con-
dition as are physical deformity and mental
aberration. The commonest facts of daily life
prove that there is a normal standard of
Individual Intelligence, Harmony and Hap-
piness, just as there is one of physical stiength,
health and beauty.
The failure to attain this Ethical Standard
is a deeper humiliation to pride than failure
to reach the physical standard. If this were
not the case of Nature how^ shall w^e explain
the fact that the unhappy, like the deformed,
diseased and criminal, shrink from critical
observation and employ every art and artifice
to conceal their misfortune?
Without reasoning a Soul recognizes its
natural right to Happiness. To be physically
perfect, mentally strong and ethically happy
is the normal state towards which humanity
moves. There is another common but signifi-
cant fact which bears out this deduction as to
the normality of Happiness and its depen-
dence upon the Love relation. If we measure
the value of a thing by the sorrow its loss oc-
casions then Love is surely the "greatest thing
337
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
in the world." There is no loss that compares
to the loss of the beloved one.
There is no form of poverty that an Indi-
vidual so skillfully conceals or so reluctantly
confesses as the poverty of a loveless life. A
man will admit financial straits or physical
disease, he will confess his ignorance and
thwarted ambitions. He will not, if he have
natural pride, confess that he has lost the ob-
ject of his Love. Under such affliction he
shrinks from pity as he does from scorn. He
has but one Desire, to hide his poverty.
To hide this misfortune and poverty men
and women daily and hourly live lives of de-
ception. Who can estimate the number of
unhappy marriages deliberately entered upon
by men and women for the sole purpose of
concealing previous disappointments.
The sight of a disappointed and of a suc-
cessful Lover is a lesson in the Law. The one
arouses almost the same sense of pity and
commiseration that we feel in the presence of
physical deformity and disease. The other
instantly gains our sympathy. We pass him
smiling involuntarily, reflecting back his joy-
ousness. If the disappointed Lover but drop
338
ETHICS OF MARRIAGE
his mask for a moment he excites either ridi-
cule or pity. He is a social failure, a depress-
ing object to his friends and a burden to him-
self.
All the world appreciates a Lover. It ap-
preciates him for his radiance. He represents
to a Soul, ethically, what physical perfection
and beauty do to the eye. The world appre-
ciates a Lover because, for the moment he is
the visible, living exemplification of every
other Soul. He is our own Desire tangibly
realized in the flesh. Even the skeptic and
cynic, decrying Love as lust and Happiness as
delusion, envy that ecstasy which lifts the
Lover above the plodding men of earth.
Even the onlooker realizes that the Lover
lives in a world of his own. The unloved and
unloving are always keenly conscious of the
vast gulf which rolls between their own es-
tate and his.
If sight of a Lover so clearly suggests his
separateness from other men, what is that ex-
perience to a Lover himself? He who has
realized the transforming power of a perfect
Love already occupies a new heaven and a
new earth. To him all things have been
339
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
changed in the twinkling of an eye. Even the
face of inanimate nature appears changed
and glorified to his sense of vision. The dif-
ficulties and perplexities of his life have van-
ished. What was discouragement is now
hope. What was in doubt is now cleared up.
Tasks have become opportunities, and failure
is a word he appears to have forgotten.
Every faculty of his Soul responds to the
new conditions of harmony. Physical weari-
ness, mental inertia, and mental indolence
vanish, to be replaced by a new and bewilder-
ing strength, buoyancy and activity. To him-
self, if not to his friends, he suddenly appears
to possess wealth and power and knowledge.
For the first time in his life he knows the true
meanings of the words, life, liberty, wealth
and Happiness. For the first time he knows
himself to be at one with all Nature. He
wonders that he never before realized the
loveliness of this world. Unsuspected beauties
flash upon him everywhere. He feels himself
at peace with all mankind. He discovers new
virtues in his friends and acquaintances. He
suddenly realizes the joy of existence. Nor is
this in any sense imagination. It means that
340
ETHICS OF MARRIAGE
the Lover becomes a perfect note in the
higher harmonics of Nature. He has risen
to conscious sympathy with the Laws of be-
ing. He is become a seer and interpreter of
truth. He boldly proclaims that God is Love
and Love is God.
All things are possible to the Lover. The
courage, the endurance, the patience and thq
suffering of faithful Love are reread and re-
told from generation to generation. The bare
facts of history irrespective of science consti-
tute unanswerable proof that man and woman
alone have wrought out the true Love Story
of the World. These are the unanswerable
proof that Love is of the Soul and not of the
body.
Nothing in the great drama of human life
so quickly and so deeply rouses a Soul to
sympathy as the sight of the mutual, loyal
Love of a man and a woman. It does not mat-
ter whether that romance is enacted in the
lowest or in the highest social life.
Who that Loves happily or has witnessed
the perfect relation, can question or deny that
transformation in his own life or the trans-
figuration he has perceived in others truly
341
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
mated? Only a man and woman who Love
really live. Only such as these are exercising
the highest faculties of the Soul. Only such as
these experience that rare exhilaration of the
Soul which constitutes Happiness. Only these
have found the key to life. Only these have
proven that life is worth the living.
Happiness is the normal destiny of a Soul.
It has for its base the same principle that
gives warmth, color, life and music to this
physical world. It is the normal state of a
Soul, just as health is the normal state of a
body. That subtle but distinct exhilaration
which distinguishes a happy Individual is
based upon an actual condition of a Soul, just
as physical intoxication is based upon an ac-
tual condition of a physical nervous system.
"Beaming," "radiant," "illuminated,"
"transfigured" are the words familiarly used
to describe this phenomenon as it manifests
itself in the physical countenance of man.
These words describe conditions which are as
much facts of a Soul as the words "height,"
"weight," "strength" and "beauty" describe
conditions of a physical body.
This exhilaration called Happiness is just
342
ETHICS OF MARRIAGE
as truly an expression of Natural Law as
molecular action, or growth, or life, or Love
itself. Indeed, it is an expression of the same
Law.
Happiness is just as properly the subject of
scientific investigation as the Law of gravi-
tation or of heat or of light. The Struggle for
Happiness is just as truly a human activity
as the struggle for nutrition and the struggle
for reproduction.
What then, according to science, is the final
and vital issue in the Struggle for Individual
Happiness?
Actually proving this as a matter of Nat-
ural Law has consumed ages on the part of
both Nature and science. It has cost untold
energy and effort and suffering to the Indi-
vidual who finally must admit that it is a
Soul and not a body which is forever seeking
Satisfaction. On the part of science it has
consumed ages of study and experiment. It
has required all means and methods known
to Intelligence. It has required the deepest
thought of the wisest scholars finally to de-
termine that Happiness is essentially the re-
sponse of Soul to Soul. All this has been
343
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
necessary to final acceptance of this perfect
Individual Ethical relation as a prerequisite
in the full development of Individual char-
acter and as the necessary gateway to still
greater achievement.
Marriage is the vital process in the Strug-
gle for Self-Completion. It is the necessary
school of experiment in which Individual
Intelligence acquires rational knowledge of
the Ethical Laws involved.
344
CHAPTER XXX
COMPANIONSHIP
In a dim way every Soul realizes the need
of Companionship.
In a dim way every unmated Soul feels its
incompleteness and its isolation. The neces-
sity for overcoming or satisfying this vague
but persistent need gives rise to that restless
and often irrational condition which we de-
fine as "society."
In the lowest "society" the Individual seeks
to satisfy his desires almost entirely through
physical relations. Even here he must have
equals if he hopes for pleasure. Even here his
demand is unconsciously for Companionship.
In a higher stage the effort is for aesthetic
sympathies as well as physical Affinities.
Here the real effort is to find another Intelli-
gence which enjoys the beauties and har-
monies of Nature from the same point of In-
tellectual development as well as physical re-
finement.
345
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
It is only among the highest types that the
Struggle for Intelligent Companionship is a
Self-Conscious and Rational effort on the
part of an Individual. Companionship means
vastly more and is more to men and women
of high degree than it is to those of lower
range. The demand is now, Self-Consciously,
the demand for response and fellowship in
the Rational activities and the ethical stand-
ards of one's Soul.
In one respect a Soul demand conforms to
all lower demands. It represents the opera-
tion of the Law of Polarity.
Natural Law is provable and proven un-
der every test. This Soul demand, scientifi-
cally stated, means the demand of one Intel-
ligence for another of such pitch, volume and
quality as will constitute a perfect unison.
This perfect unison necessitates the comple-
mentary energies of a positive and those of a
receptive Intelligence.
A Companion is what every Individual is,
in reality, seeking in his Struggle for Self-
Completion. This is the guaranty of Indi-
vidual Content.
346
COMPANIONSHIP
This is the fiat of the Great Intelligence
which guides Nature in all departments.
Universal history and experience corrobo-
rate these deductions as to the harmonics of
Individual Life. The Individual who knows
history or society or himself, knows that the
value and beauty and charm of life are made
or marred by the Individual relations which
he deliberately assumes, or which are thrust
upon him by stronger Will or circumstance.
So long as the closest relations of life are
discordant, a Soul knows neither rest nor
peace nor Happiness. This is a fact, no
matter what may be the individual posses-
sions or powers or knowledge or honors.
It is not until human Intelligence exhausts
all other means provided by Nature, that it
finally comes to this conclusion. After a Soul
has long and vainly sought its ethical needs
through passions and esthetic pleasures, it
comes to realize that the joys of existence lie
far outside the domain of the purely material.
In the lowest rounds of life the Struggle
for Happiness appears as the unhappiest of
Struggles. Brutal brawling and sports and
debaucheries absorb all of life's energies
347
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
which arc not required in the struggle for
nutrition. This degraded phase of revelry
and sport merges into the "good time" so per-
sistently sought by honest ignorance. In this
grade of life innocent folly and trivial sports
replace the brutalities and immoralities of
vicious ignorance. Later on we have "so-
ciety" more refined, more cultured, but
scarcely wiser than the common people. Here
is the Struggle for Happiness with infinite
waste of energ>', vitality and Intelligence. In
the name of "pleasure" life is given up to
recreation, entertainment and amusement.
"Society" represents the Struggle for Happi-
ness through more refined physical and spir-
itual conditions. It represents epicureanism
and apstheticism.
There is a world of still higher standards
where the Intelligence seeks its own content.
This is the realm of intellectual and moral
activity; the world that embraces science, art,
philosophy and philanthropy. This is the
world whose inhabitants seek Happiness in
knowledge, labor, thought, and in service to
their fellow men. This includes the religious
life in which a Soul seeks surcease of sorrow.
348
COMPANIONSHIP
Here are the dreamers and ecstatics who,
wrapt in visions of a future Happiness, take
little thought for achieving it in this present
life.
It is only after long trial that a Soul dis-
covers that its ultimate serenity is not secured
through the senses, nor by intellectual occu-
pations, nor in altruistic labors. It comes to
acknowledge that Individual Happiness of a
rational being rests upon its Individual rela-
tion with another rational being like itself.
Not until all other expedients have been tried
and abandoned does man confess and realize
that the charm of life lies solely and only in
his Individual relation to some one other hu-
man being.
This is the marvelous truth which has been
in process of proving ever since man set out
upon the path of Self-Completion.
Loneliness is the commonest and the
heaviest cross that is borne in this earthly life.
A sense of isolation as to one's inner life and
motives and aspirations is an almost Univer-
sal impression. The conviction that one is
misunderstood is an everyday experience. To
feel one's self without sympathy, even in one's
349
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
own family, is so common as to excite neither
wonder nor protest. One man says that he is
lonely in "spirit," another that he is alone in
his "heart life," still another that he is alone
in the "life of the Soul." No matter what
terms one employs, they all mean the same
thing. Each means that a Soul is alone in its
rational and ethical existence.
This sense of loneliness increases as a Soul
ascends the scale of development. There
comes a time in the life of a Soul when ra-
tional Intelligence assumes control, when it
discards the fleeting satisfactions of the senses,
as the elements of Happiness. There comes a
time when aesthetic pleasures, intellectual oc-
cupations and even labors are no longer mis-
taken for the primary sources of Happiness.
This is the period when a Soul realizes its es-
sential need for an Individual Companionship
in its many activities, when Intellectual and
ethical fellowship becomes the first necessity
of existence. To such an Individual physical
association, without this response, is loath-
some; and a?sthctic sympathies yield but a
momentary pleasure. Neither the treasures
350
COMPANIONSHIP
nor triumphs of this world confer permanent
joy upon such a being.
"It is not good for man to be alone."
The ancient poet gave voice to Nature.
His pronunciamento has been established
throughout the ages as the voice of God him-
self. This has become an article of faith con-
fessed by the whole human family.
The inspirations which underlie the most
enduring works of man had their source in
this cry of an Intelligent Soul for true Com-
panionship. The most sublime in human ac-
complishment stands for this hope and ex-
pectation of a Soul. Art and literature are
but echoes of this Universal refrain. The
loftiest in poetry, the sweetest in music, the
loveliest in color and form, are contributions
to the true Love Story of the World. They
are the shadows of other men's Desires.
They are confessions of our own. This hun-
ger of a Soul runs in minor key through
everything that is worthy in human achieve-
ment, and the loftier the standard of the
artist the loftier his production.
This inspiration, so clear and distinct to
genius, is also the unconscious motive of the
351
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
plodding lives below the level of genius.
And if we but analyze the Individual need
that inspires the enthusiasm of the religious
devotee we shall find that his hope and ex-
pectation do not differ from the hope and ex-
pectation of all other men. The search for the
Personal God is unconsciously the search of
a Soul for its Mate.
The solitary life of a Soul is proof against
every distraction or occupation that Intelli-
gence can devise. It yields to neither the
honors nor the pleasures of the world. A
man may rule a kingdom and be absolutely
alone. He may have indulged himself in
every phase of revelry and entertainment, and
in every right of power, remaining isolated
in his real life. A woman may live in the
close relation of wife or mother, she may pose
as a social queen, yet she may never have
known the first joys of real Companionship.
For this immeasurable loneliness of a Soul
there is an alleviation, if not cure, which lies
outside of the Individual relation. This is
honest toil, whether it be with hands or
brain.
The sadness of this isolation, on the other
SS2
COMPANIONSHIP
hand, may be immeasurably increased by
idleness, wrong association and reckless mis-
alliance.
This craving for response to one's own
Desires, and rebellion against this inner soli-
tude, constitute that subtle factor which leads
men and women to violation of the social con-
ventions.
Marital infidelity, the world over, is caused
by a Soul craving satisfaction.
If this inference appears extravagant, let
the reader stop and count the number of
happy marriages which have come under his
own personal observation. Let him count the
number of Happy married men or women
whom he actually knows as such in his own
little world.
Natural Science, studying the Struggle for
Happiness, declares that by far the greater
number of Individuals are seeking that end
along other lines than the true principle of
harmonics. Comparing the motives and lives
with the measure of Happiness that men se-
cure through their so-called successes, it is
seen that an Individual's idea of Happiness
too often conflicts with the Universal Happi-
3S3
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
ness principle. Taking into account this prin-
ciple of harmonics in Nature, this modern
philosophy of the ancient school declares that
long-sought Happiness of the Individual rests
upon Love and upon his ability to find In-
dividual Completion through permanent
union with his perfect Affinity.
This reading of the law furnishes the basis
of propositions new in philosophy. These are
propositions which must change the life of
any man or woman who adopts them as the
working formula of his or her daily life.
The Philosophy of Individual Life, built
upon a principle of harmonics instead of a
principle of competition, declares:
Happiness is the moral destiny of a Soul.
Happiness rests upon the Individual rela-
tion of man and woman.
The attainment of Happiness is the goal, as
well as the privilege, of rational beings.
Man and woman must work out this mari-
tal problem along lines conforming to the
elements they represent. There have been
and will be sins of omission and commission
on both sides. This is the only path possible
for the evolution of a rational and moral re-
354
COMPANIONSHIP
lation between these complementary Intel-
ligences.
The past half century marks an epoch in
the Struggle for Self-Completion, especially
on the feminine side. This unprecedented in-
cursion of woman into hitherto forbidden
fields of educational and commercial life has
its evolutionary meaning. It marks that
strengthening of the feminine nature which
guarantees rational and moral achievements,
increased activity, added usefulness, and
greater Content. Without losing the essen-
tial grace of womanliness, she is gaining in
Will Power, and in reasoning power. She is
gaining in breadth of Intelligence and in di-
rection of purpose.
The best womanhood has earned that
purely Intellectual equality with man she
has so long desired. She has fitted her-
self to be the Companion of man's Intelli-
gence, as well as his wife, or his mistress, or
even the mother of his children.
The best types of both sexes enjoy an
equality and fellowship which have no paral-
lel in history. This relation represents the
355
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
Struggle for Self-Completion at one of its
critical periods.
Though this era marks a closer harmony,
it does not alter the relative natures or posi-
tions of these two powers. Man, if he does
not degenerate, must continue the superior
Will Power and master of this material
world. Woman, if she does not deteriorate,
must remain as the spirit of peace, the guar-
dian of the relation of the sexes, and the in-
spiration of the ethical life of the world.
The long and wearisome quest of Individual
Intelligence for Self-Completion has an end-
ing in the course of Nature, just as surely as
the efforts of physical nature had an ending
in the perfect physical organism. Whenever
man and woman meet upon those terms of
equality and reciprocity which Nature in-
tends, they will have experienced marriage
which is not made by courts of law. They
will know a Companionship of which "so-
ciety" is barren.
CHAPTER XXXI
TRUE MARRIAGE
True marriage upon the physical plane
is a scientific possibility.
The principle involved is the Universal
Principle of Polarity.
The process involved is the effort for vi-
bratory correspondence between two Indi-
viduals of opposite Polarity.
The effects of true marriage are three-fold
in character: mathematical, harmonic and
ethical.
The Mathematics of marriage have to do
vs^ith the rates of vibratory activity in the
Individuals only.
The Harmonics of marriage have to do
with the ratios which exist between the rates
of vibratory activity of two Individuals of
opposite Polarity.
The Ethics of marriage have to do only
with the effects produced upon the Individ-
ual Intelligences of a man and a woman, by
357
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
harmonic or inharmonic ratios between their
Individual rates of vibratory activities.
True marriage is Vibratory in principle,
Harmonic in relation and Ethical in effects.
The principle, process and effects of true
marriage are analogous to the principle, proc-
ess and effects of the union between Entities
in all of the lower kingdoms of Nature.
Human marriage includes all of the Af-
finities and effects which characterize the
union of two atoms, two cells or two animals.
Human marriage embraces effects superior
to those of the lower unions. Human mar-
riage adds those closer, sweeter harmonies,
keener sensations and ethical effects which
flow from the union of two rational Souls.
The difficulties which stand in the way of
true marriage, rationally and scientifically
contracted, are great, but they are not insur-
mountable. The obstacles are many, but they
are not endless. There is a Natural Law of
true marriage, and knowledge of that Law is
obtainable. Its fulfillment is a human pos-
sibility.
All that has been previously declared as
to the Universal Principle of Polarity, ap-
3S8
TRUE MARRIAGE
plies to the Intelligent Soul of man and
woman. All that has been elucidated as to
the process involved in the union of positive
and receptive Entities, applies to the union of
tw^o rational beings. All that has been shown
by way of effects, Mathematical, Harmonic
and Ethical, applies to the physical, spiritual
and psychical union of man and woman.
The Universal Principle of Polarity or
Affinity, variously defined as the Law of
Motion and Number, the Law of Vibration,
the Natural Law of Selection, is also the
Law of True Marriage. The same Uni-
versal Principle governs the involuntary Af-
finities of mineral and vegetable substance,
the attraction between animals, and the Love
between man and woman. As Nature ad-
vances, the process involved in marriage rises
in importance. The Universal but involun-
tary struggle of mere substance for vibratory
correspondence, is finally replaced by an In-
dividual Self-Conscious Struggle of the Ra-
tional Soul for Happiness.
The Chemical Affinity of two mineral
atoms results in a material cohesion which
may be readily overcome. The vibratory cor-
359
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
respondence of two mineral atoms establishes
nothing more than equilibrium between the
electro-magnetic energies of those atoms.
This union represents a correspondence of
vibratory action in the physical and ethereal
substance of which the atoms are composed.
A man and a woman, by true marriage,
attain something more than a vibratory cor-
respondence in their material organisms.
They arrive at an Individual Self-Conscious
relation of mutual sympathy. They experi-
ence, not only a sensation called passion, but
a universal activity called Love. They real-
ize an Individual eflfect which they define as
Happiness. They establish an equilibrium
of forces psychically, as well as physically
and spiritually.
There are preventives and remedies for
marital inharmony
:
The study and Intelligent comprehension
of the Universal Principle of Affinity which
is involved in the true relation.
The honest and Intelligent effort of young
men and young women to marry in conform-
ity to that principle.
The honest endeavor of the married to ful-
360
TRUE MARRIAGE
fill to the uttermost all self-imposed obliga-
tions, especially those which relate to the per-
sonal supervision and training of their chil-
dren.
The first object should be the education of
the Individual to knowledge of true mating,
with the view of decreasing the number of
false and mistaken marriages. Such educa-
tion would directly benefit the nation, the
family and the Individual.
P13.C.
'
f'9 0.
True marriage may occur between two In-
dividuals of any degree or character of devel-
opment. This fact is illustrated in figures (C)
and (D). Here we find true marriage, that
is, union which fulfills the natural law of
marriage. These figures do not represent the
highest possibilities in marriage. They do
not represent, either in form or stature or ef-
fects or influence, what marriage may mean
to the Individual and to the world. Mar-
riage, as here represented, is, nevertheless, a
361
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
true relation, physically, spiritually and psy-
chically. It is a true relation in that they
find mutual response one in the other. Such a
pair will find in each other a mutual compan-
ionship. The demands of each may be lim-
ited. They will be the same demands. Such
a pair will seek no further for satisfaction,
for sympathy or for companionship in any
department of life.
For the purposes of illustration, it is neces-
sary to let the Individuals in these pairs of re-
lated triangles, stand alone. To join them, as
in the other illustrations, would make but one
figure. As all lines coincide, the feminine
dotted triangle would disappear in the
straight lines of the masculine. This is what
occurs in True Marriage. We would then
have but a single figure which is True Mar-
riage.
SM
CHAPTER XXXII
PERFECT MARRIAGE
There now remains but one general type of
marriage for illustration. This is the rarest
in human society. This is the goal toward
which all marriage systems are naturally,
though slowly, tending.
A happy Love relation is intensified by ra-
tional knowledge of the principles involved,
just as the appreciation of music increases
with the rational understanding of the Laws
of Harmony.
Figures (E), (F), (G) and (H) represent
the perfect unions of two Individuals. Each
figure represents the union of two Individuals
who are harmoniously balanced, physical,
spiritual and psychical. While all of these
363
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
figures represent perfect union, they repre-
sent unions of different value. Here is not
only the union of two harmonious beings,
but several harmonious unions of differ-
ent grades. While each pair represents a
perfect Individual relation and an Individual
Completion, the several pairs do not by any
means represent the same quality of compan-
ionship. They do not represent the same
physical, spiritual or psychical strength and
stature. They do not represent the same de-
gree of energy, nor of power, nor of influence.
They do not represent the same measure of
learning, nor the same capacity for loving.
They do not represent the same degree of
Happiness to the Individual Soul, nor the
same degree of benefit to the world at large.
The law of heredity is as inexorable as the
law of motion and number. Figures (I) and
(J) ^I'c given as mere suggestions, as to the
efl^ects of true and false marriage, upon the
child, the family and society.
Figure (I) represents the perfect marriage
relation and its mathematical results.
Figure (J) represents the unnatural and in-
364
PERFECT MARRIAGE
harmonious marriage relation and its mathe-
matical results.
It will be observed that all of the triangles
which radiate from the perfect equilateral
triangle, as a center, are also equilateral trian-
gles, and that their combination presents a
perfect composite figure.
In figure (J) the radiating triangles, with
their unequal sides and unequal angles, also
illustrate the laws of heredity. They suggest
the inharmony of family and society, which
necessarily result from an imperfect center.
This figure is a very fair illustration of our
present stage of marital, family and social
development.
Thus it is that every man and every woman
becomes a factor in the world for social order
365
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
or for social chaos, as he or she fulfills or fails
to fulfill the law of Perfect Marriage.
Rational Happiness is the highest attain-
ment of a Soul. The attainment of rational
Happiness rests upon a Perfect Marriage
relation.
The Natural Scientist does not pretend that
he has discovered all of the compensations
which Nature has in store for man. He has
so far investigated Nature's plan and pur-
pose, as to feel justified in saying that Indi-
vidual Completion and Happiness here and
hereafter, come within the scope and intent
of the Law. He claims that the primary ne-
cessity in such an estate is an Individual Love
Relation which fulfills the Natural Law of
Selection, or Marriage.
In such a relation Natural Science explains
to the Individual that he or she finds that cor-
respondence, sympathy and companionship
which meet and satisfy the Individual de-
mands of a Soul.
This is the vibratory correspondence Na-
ture is forever seeking to establish. This is
the harmonic relation which constitutes the
highest reality of a Soul.
366
PERFECT MARRIAGE
Every Individual should know that ever}^
right endeavor is a step nearer to Nature's
purpose. The great general task of Nature is
made possible by Individual Effort, which
refines the physical body, develops Reason,
and induces Morality. To aid the Individual
in his search for this perfect relationship,
Natural Science says to him:
'The fact that you are an Individual, dif-
ferentiated from all others of your sex, must
suggest to you that Nature can furnish but
one perfect complementary of the other sex.
No two men nor women ever had or ever
will have the same physical, spiritual and
psychical constitution, quality, power, or ca-
pacity. No two of the same sex are alike in
their necessities. The Individual who fulfills
every requirement of your own nature must
belong to you and to none other. It is only
such an Individual who can effect the true
harmonic in your life. In this perfect rela-
tion only you may hope to escape satiety."
Mutual Love which creates the most in-
tense and exquisite music of life, results in a
condition of Happiness to which the great
world is a stranger. Such a pair are the
367
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
wonder and admiration and envy of the less
fortunate. Absolute Love and perfect Hap-
piness are so rare in the experience and obser-
vation of mankind that such a relation ap-
pears to be a gift of the gods.
All of life's energies are then exactly bal-
anced and fully employed. All activities are
harmonious activities. To every demand
of every element is response and reinforce-
ment. Thought answers thought. Principle
strengthens principle. Will and Desire are
one. The Soul has entered into rest.
This philosophy of Individual life accepts
the Perfect Marriage relation as the necessary
condition of Individual Happiness, an essen-
tial experience in the development of Indi-
vidual character, and in the normal progress
of a Soul. This position maintains Happiness
as the normal state or condition of a Soul, and
unhappiness as a departure from that state.
Love and Happiness are joys which Nature
reserves for self-completed human beings.
368
CHAPTER XXXIII
ALTRUISM
Altruism is that state or condition of a
Soul in which all of its energies and activ-
ities are centered upon the needs and require-
ments of our common humanity. It is that
stage of development where the well-being
and the advancement of others become the
normal occupation of Intelligence. It is that
stage of experience where pleasure, recrea-
tion and entertainment are found in labor for
others. It is that point of Individual life be-
yond which our Happiness consists in the
transmission of the truths we have learned
and the benefits we have enjoyed.
Altruism is that state of being in which an
Intelligent Soul increases its Happiness
through what it may bestow rather than
through what it may gain. It is that state in
which Will and Desire are concentrated upon
giving instead of acquiring.
To the Completed Individual Altruism is
369
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
a joy and a privilege. It is neither a duty nor
a sacrifice.
Altruism thus interpreted, is the opposite
pole of egoism. It means the substitution of
"you" and "yours" for "I," "me" and "mine."
"I," "me" and "mine" are the dominant
notes in human society. From the cradle to
the grave we are victims of the personal pro-
noun. We live in it ourselves and our neigh-
bors thrust it upon us. Absorbed in this per-
sonal pronoun and in the great personal prob-
lem, men, women and children, the wide
world over, live, think and labor for "I,"
"me" and "mine." So self-centered are the
most of us that these personal pronouns of
our neighbors are but half heard and imme-
diately forgotten.
So exacting is Nature, so intense the Strug-
gle for Self-Completion, that only in Individ-
ual Completion can we turn from "I" to
"you," or merge the interests of "mine" into
"thine."
This intense egoism is an unconscious and
innocent selfishness. Absorbed in this vital
Struggle for Happiness, nobody realizes his
own egoism. To accuse such an Individual
ALTRUISM
of selfishness, would be to surprise and wound
him, and in a sense to misjudge him. The
man who gets "outside of himself" is the un-
usual man, but he is as welcome as sunlight
anywhere and everywhere. The artist who can
sink himself in his art is ungrudgingly praised
by the world. Whoever loses himself in a
common cause, or in his Altruism for human-
ity, is the man we would canonize.
The Incomplete Individual, man or wom-
an, is not prepared for Altruism.
This does not mean that Altruism is not
practiced in the world. It does not mean
that generous impulses, noble sacrifices and
splendid giving are lacking. It does not
mean that the egoistic toilers of the earth are
without sympathy, charity and generosity.
The philanthropies of times past and of the
present forbid such suggestion.
The world is full of kindness, pessimism to
the contrary. Generous impulses abound.
Charity is everywhere. The average man ex-
periences Altruistic impulses in many forms.
He is moved by distress. He deplores misery,
crime and poverty. He has compassion upon
even the unworthy. He is impelled to re-
371
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
lieve conditions which induce unpleasant
emotions in his own breast. His Altruism
comes in the nature of a duty or a sacrifice
or a contribution to his own Ethical Con-
tent.
This does not mean that Altruism has be-
come his actual occupation, nor that his bene-
factions spring from an unmixed motive
—
the joy of giving.
When it is said that the Incomplete Indi-
vidual is not prepared for Altruism no more
is meant than to say—no man or woman is
prepared to give all of his or her energies to
the world so long as part of those energies
must be consumed in the egoistic Struggle for
Self-Completion. It means that no one is pre-
pared practically to live and teach the phi-
losophy of Love and of Intelligent Happiness
except he or she is grounded in the Love
Principle, except he or she is Individually
and Rationally Happy.
Every man and every woman is a factor
for health or disease, for harmony or discord,
for Happiness or unhappiness. Every human
being radiates his own conditions, physical,
spiritual and psychical. The radius of per-
372
ALTRUISM
sonal influence is only limited by personal
power and by the counter influences of other
Individuals.
Every rational being is responsible for the
character of influences which he exerts upon
his fellow man. A vicious man will arouse
the vicious instincts of other men. An im-
moral man lowers the moral tone of his asso-
ciates. A quarrelsome Individual breeds, dis-
cord. One melancholy member clouds an en-
tire family circle. One fretful, peevish Soul
irritates every other Soul in its neighborhood.
An exhibition of selfishness provokes other
people to withhold their generosities. Selfish
unhappiness is as contagious as smallpox.
One selfishly unhappy Individual is a source
of positive evil and moral degeneration, as
far as the poison of his personal influence
extends.
The state of Altruism is as definite a state
as that of selfishness or viciousness or im-
morality. It is also farther reaching in its
influence and richer in effects than any other
known state of being.
To arrive at the state of Altruism requires
that a Soul should have individually demon-
373
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
strated the principle of harmonics and per-
sonally attained Happiness.
The Individual who is rationally happy
has reached the end of personal Desire. He
is neither oppressed nor distracted by Indi-
vidual wants. He has ceased to make de-
mands upon Nature or society for his Individ-
ual Happiness. In this natural cessation of
personal demands egoism dies its natural
death. It has not been strangled by auster-
ities nor crushed out by religious supersti-
tions nor covered up by social conventions.
Happiness is unselfishness in its literal sense.
Altruism is a result of Happiness.
The Completed Individual, the perfectly
happy man, has no other choice of occupation
than a work for humanity. It must be re-
membered that the state of Individual Com-
pletion is the state of the most intense psychi-
cal activity. Intelligence must have occupa-
tion. The happy man, as well as the un-
happy, must find employment for his energies
and capacities. The divine law of labor en-
closes the Completed Individual and urges
him to other achievements. Such a man or
woman is alive with splendid enthusiasm;
374
ALTRUISM
and seeing life beyond the narrow limit of
self, maps out accomplishments undreamed
of by those in the midst of the egoistic Strug-
gle for Happiness. To such as these, action
is necessity, while inertia and idleness are as
impossible as egoism and selfishness.
To such as these Altruism is a practical
occupation, as well as recreation and pleas-
ure. To such, humanity is his family, the
world is his field and to do good is his re-
ligion. This is an Altruism which makes
Universal Brotherhood a splendid possibil-
ity, and an eternal hell a hideous impossi-
bility.
What other occupation is open to an Indi-
vidually Completed life, than the splendid
task of imparting its gains to others? What
other motive can inspire the really happy
man except the desire to make other people
happy? It is a Law of Nature that impels
us to bring others to our own condition. The
Universal principle of harmonics impels
every Individual to seek to bring his neigh-
bor to his own intellectual and ethical state of
being. The man and woman, mutually at-
tuned to the harmonics of Love, and released
375
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
from egoistic considerations, arc thenceforth
impelled by every law of development to im-
part their own condition to their fellow man.
Being happy themselves, they are irresist-
ibly moved to minister to the Happiness of
the world. They are irresistibly inspired to
pass on to others that knowledge and those
principles which shall change discord into
harmony, fear into hope, loneliness into com-
panionship, and sorrow into joy.
Ask any rational man what he would do if
he were absolutely happy. He will invariably
reply, "I would make other people happy."
Ask the happy man in what he finds his
greatest pleasure, and he will tell you, "In
doing what good I can in the world and help-
ing other people to be happy."
Just here is the radical point of departure
between the ancient and this modern inter-
pretation as to the place, value and purpose
of the Individual in Nature. An Individ-
ually happy earthly life was apparently the
last and least consideration in the ancient
philosophies. Indeed, most of the teaching,
and much of the practices of its devotees, are
calculated to inspire the mind with the in-
376
ALTRUISM
significance of the Individual and the pre-
sumption of his desire for Individual Hap-
piness. The natural and happy love life is
made to appear as something quite foreign
to, if not actually opposed to the "higher life
of a Soul." The desire for, and the determi-
nation to seek such a relation, are made to
appear rather as the temptation of the "low^er
nature" than a legitimate part of so-called
"Spiritual Illumination."
Impressed by such doctrine, the would-be
"mystic" comes to consider marriage and In-
dividual Love v^ith its duties and joys, as a
mere phase, a mere passing experience of a
Soul w^hich is seeking to "lose itself in the
Universal." This attempt to reach the higher
altitudes of Altruism by ignoring the natural
necessities of an Individual, results in a doc-
trine of "Impersonality" that is contrary to
Nature, and deadening to the Individual fac-
ulties. This is a doctrine which rests securely
upon such terms as "selflessness," and whose
aim is defined as "oneness" with a Universal,
uncomprehended, and incomprehensible Ul-
timate.
This attempt of the modern "occultist" to
377
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
govern his life by ancient interpretations of
man and his destiny, results in curious en-
counters between ancient mysticism and mod-
ern common sense.
The clear-headed western skeptic may be
forgiven his occasional criticism of what he
designates as "Oriental Fads." Such a man
may well question the wisdom of an Ameri-
can woman who, born and reared in this
western atmosphere of religious, social and
legal equality for women, abjures Christian-
ity, joins an Indian sect, takes vows of celi-
bacy and poverty, and dons a yellow robe,
that she may be better able to practice the
golden rule.
Such a critic, if a thinker, would know
that celibacy is a contravention of Nature.
If he were a scientist he would know that
the celibacy of the highly developed defeats
racial improvement. If he were an econ-
omist, he would know that "vows of poverty"
mean the shifting of personal responsibility
for maintenance upon an already overtaxed
public. If he were a practical statistician, he
would calculate the physical, industrial, and
moral results, if nine out of every ten citizens
378
ALTRUISM
of this great republic vowed themselves to
celibacy and poverty, leaving the other one-
tenth to replenish the earth and furnish sub-
sistence for the whole.
In these particular interpretations of Indi-
vidual rights and responsibilities this philos-
ophy contravenes ancient dogmas and prac-
tices. It unequivocally affirms that Altruism
rests upon neither celibacy nor poverty. It
declares that he who seeks the approval of
Nature's God and his fellow man, defeats
that end by seclusion, celibacy and poverty.
A philosophy which hopes to satisfy mod-
ern progressive Intelligence must banish the
unnatural and unholy martyrdom. It must
replace selfish seclusion with an active use-
fulness in the world. It must replace the de-
generative effects of austere celibacy with the
ennobling impulses of a natural Love life.
It must substitute the self-respect of Individ-
ual effort for the self-degradation inseparable
from "vows of poverty."
It will banish an Altruism wrung from
somber doctrines, from cheated hearts, and
poverty-stricken lives. It will set forth that
splendid Altruism which overflows in a Soul
379
HARMONICS OF EVOLUTION
who has self-sought and self-earned an Indi-
vidual Independence and an Individually
Happy Love Life.
Happiness is the most irresistible teacher
of goodness. The example of one rationally
happy being is farther reaching and more
enduring than volumes of precept. Such a
man or woman is the most potent factor for
healthful development to be found on earth.
As a man thinks, so is he, and so does he
labor. A Soul who has climbed to the sum-
mit, who has reached the goal, who has at-
tained his heart's desire, is the one and only
mortal properly equipped to teach Happi-
ness to an ignorant and sorrowing world. He
is the only Individual rightly conditioned to
furnish both example and precept.
Only such as have reached the stage of In-
dividual Completion, are prepared to give
themselves wholly and joyously to the task
of teaching mankind. The Man and Woman
who together have proven the Law of Love,
and whose Individual Happiness is com-
pleted in each other, have no other Will nor
Desire than Altruism.
380
The following page contains a list of
the pubh'cations of
The Great School of Natural Science
HARMONIC LITERATURE
Vol. I. Harmonics of Evolution, Florence Huntley $3.00
The Struggle for Happiness, and Indi-
vidual Completion Through Polarity
or Affinity.
Vol. II. The Great Psychological Crime. ..\ $3.00
The Destructive Principle of Nature
in Individual Life.
Vol. III. The Great Work / . „ $3.00
The Constructive Principle of Katiire
in Individual Life.
J. E.
(Richardson
Vol. IV. The Gieat Known ( TK. $3-00
What Science Knows of the Spiritual
World.
Vol. V. The Great Message / $3.00
The Lineal Key of the Great School
of the Masters.
Vol. I. Self-Unfoldment
)
$2.00
.r , TT n ,r rr . , , ^J" ^- Richardson, TK ^
Vol. II. Self-Unfoldment ) $2.00
Who Answers Prayer? po, RA, TK $1.00
The Great Work In America (Magazine) 1 year $3.25
PIONEEB PKESS
Hollywood, Calif.
