{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__haanel___the_new_psychology____v5.pdf","mytitle":"The New Psychology","mylang":"de"}
,.
The New Psychology
MENTAL MEDICINE
0RTHOBIOSIS
BIOCHEMISTRY
THE NEW PSYCHOLOGY
SUGGESTION
Cf3y
(harles F. Haanel
VOLUME v
THE MASTER KEY INSTITUTE
597 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK, N. Y. ,
COPYRIGHT I928
COPYRIGHT 1922
CO PYRIGHT 19 23
COPYRIGHT I924
BY
CHARLES F. HAANEL
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THE U.S . A.
All that a man does outwardly is
but the expression and completion
of his inward thought. To work
effectually, he must think clearly;
to act nobly, he must think nobly.
Intellectualforce is a principal ele-
ment of the soul's life, and should
be proposed by euery man as the
principle ofhis being.-CHANNING.
(ontents: Volume Five
Part Fourteen
MENTAL MEDICINE . . .
Part Fifteen
0RTHOBIOSIS
Part Sixteen
BIOCHEMISTRY . . . . .
Part Seventeen
THE NEW PSYCHOLOGY . .
Part Eighteen
SUGGESTION
PAGE
379
395
413
447
.utcental ~edicine
Part Fourteen
MENTAL MEDICINE
I
N "The Law of Mental Medicine,"
Thomson Jay Hudson, says:
"Like all the laws of nature, the
law of mental medicine is universal in its
application; and, like all the others, it
is simple and easily comprehended."
Granted that there is an intelligence that
controls the functions of the body in
health, it follows that it is the same
power or energy that fails in case of
disease. Failing, it requires assistance;
and that is what all therapeutic agencies
aim to accomplish. No intelligent phy-
sician of any school claims to be able to
do more than to "assist nature" to re-
store normal conditions of the body.
That it is a mental energy that thus
requires assistance, no one denies; for
379
'The ~w Psychology
science teaches us that the whole body
is made up of a confederation of intel-
ligent entities, each of which performs
its functions with an intelligence ex-
actly adapted to the performance of its
special duties as a member of the con-
federacy. There is, indeed, no life with-
out mind, from the lowest unicellular
organis.m up to man. It is, therefore, a
mental energy that actuates every fibre
of the body under all its conditions.
That there is a central intelligence that
controls each of those mind organisms,
is self-evident.
Whether, as the materialistic scientists
insist, this central intelligence is merely
the sum of all the cellular intelligences
of the bodily organism, or is an inde-
pendent entity, capable of sustaining a
separate existence after · the body per-
ishes, is a question that does not concern
380
Utfental Urredicine
us m the pursuance of the present m-
quiry. It is sufficient for us to know that
such an intelligence exists, and that, for
the time being, it is the controlling en-
ergy that normally regulates the action
of the myriad cells of which the body is
composed.
It is, then, a mental organism that all
therapeutic agencies are designed to
energize, when, for any cause, it fails
to perform its functions with reference
to any part of the physical structure.
It follows that mental therapeutic agen-
cies are the primary and normal means
of energizing the mental organism. That
is to say, mental agencies operate more
directly than any other, because more
intelligibly, upon a mental organism; al-
though physical agencies are by no
means excluded, for all experience shows
that a mental organism responds to phys-
381
'The ~w Psychology
ical as well as to mental stimuli. All
that can be reasonably cl~imec!_J_~ that _
in therapeutics, mental stimulus is neces-
sarily more direct and ~ore positive i~
its effects, otfier-tfiings beinge qual, than
;-physical stimulus can be, for the sim-
p e reason tnaf it is intelligent on the
one hand ·;nd intelligible on ~the-r.
It must- b~ rema~ked, -l10wev;;::that it
is obviously impossible wholly to elim-
inate mental suggestion even in the ad-
ministration of material remedies. Ex-
tremists claim that the whole effect of
material remedies is due to the factor of
mental suggestion; but this seems to be
untenable. The most that can be claimed
with any degree of certainty is that Ma-
terial remedies, when they are not in
themselves positively injurious, are good
and legitimate forms of suggestions, and,
as such, are invested with acertain ther-
382
c%ental c%edicine
apeutic potency, as in the administra-
tion of the placebo. It is also certain
that, whether the remedies are material
or mental, they must, directly or indi-
rectly, energize the mental organism in
control of the bodily functions. Other-
wise the therapeutic effects produced
cannot be permanent.
It follows that the therapeutic value of
all remedial agencies, material or men-
tal, is proportioned to their respective
powers to produce the effect of stimu-
lating the subjective mind to a state of
normal activity, and directing its ener-
gies into appropriate channels. We
know that suggestion fills this require-
ment more directly and positively than
any other known therapeutic agent; and
this is all that needs to be done for the
restoration of health in any case outside
of the domain of surgery. It is all that
383
'The ~w Psychology
can be done. No power in the universe
can do more than energize the mental
organism that is the seat and source of
health within the body. A miracle could
do no more.
Professor Clouston, in his inaugural
, address to the Royal Medical Society
in 1896, says:
"I would desire this evening to lay
down or enforce a principle that is, I
think, not sufficiently, and often not at
all, considered in practical medicine and
surgery. It is founded on a physiolog-
ical basis, and it is of the highest prac-
tical importance. The principle is that
the brain cortex, and especially the men-
tal cortex, has such a position in the
economy that it has to be reckoned with
more or less as a factor for good or evil
in all diseases of every organ, in all
operations, and in all mJunes. Physio-
384
Uteental c:.%edicine
logically the cortex is the great regu-
lator of all functions, the ever-active con-
troller of every organic disturbance. We
know that every organ and every func-
tion are represented in the cortex, and
are so represented that they all may be
brought into the right relationship and
harmony with each other, and so they
all may be converted into a vital unity
through it.
"Life and mind are the two factors
of that organic· unity that constitute a
real animal organism. The mental cor-
tex of man is the apex of the evolution-
ary pyramid, whose base is composed of
the swarming pyramids of bacilli and
other monocellular germs which we now
see to be almost all-pervading in nature.
It seems as if it has been the teleological
aim of all evolution from the beginning.
In it every other organ and function
385
The ~w Psychology
find their organic end. In histological
structure-so far as we yet know this-
it far exceeds all other organs in com-
plexity.
"When we fully know the structure
of each neuron, with its hundreds of
fibres and its thousands of dendrites, and
the relation of one neuron to another,
when we can demonstrate the cortical
apparatus for universal intercommunica-
tion of nervous energy, with its absolute
solidarity, its partial localisation, and its
wondrous arrangements for mind, mo-
tion, sensibility, nutrition, repair, and
drainage-when we fully know all this,
there will be no further question of the
dominance of the brain cortex in the or-
ganic hierarchy, nor of its supreme im-
portance in disease."
"The Lancet" records a case of Dr.
Barkas of a woman (58) with supposed
386
/
U¥Cental U¥Cedicine
disease of every organ, with pains every-
wher.e, who tried every method of cure,
but was at last experimentally cured by
mental therapeutics pure and simple.
Assured that death would result from
her state, and that a certain medicine
would infallibly cure her, provided it
was administered by an experienced
nurse, one tablespoonful of pure distilled
water was given her at 7, 12, 5 and 10,
to the second with scrupulous care; and
in less than three weeks all pain ceased,
all diseases were cured, and remained
so. This is a valuable experiment as
excluding every material remedy what-
ever, and proving that it is the mental
factor alone that cures; however, it may
be generally associated with material
remedies.
Dr. Morrison, of Edinburgh, discov-
ered that a lady who had constant vio-
387
The :J.&_,w Psychology
lent hysterical attacks had given her
hand to one man and her heart to an-
other. A little direct common-sense talk
in this case formed an agreeable substi-
tute for the distilled water in the other,
and the patient never had another attack.
Many seem to think that only nervous
or functional diseases are cured by Men-
tal or Spiritual methods, but Alfred T.
Schofield, M. D., tells in "The Force
of Mind":
In one long list of 250 published cases
of disease cured we find five "consump-
tion," one "diseased hip," five "abscess,"
three "dyspepsia," four "internal com-
plaint," two "throat ulcer," seven "nerv-
ous debility," nine "rheumatism," five
"diseased heart," two "withered arm,"
four "bronchitis," three "cancer," two
"paralyzed arm," three "weak eyes," one
"ruptured spine," five "pains in the
388
/
r:.%ental r:.%edicine
head." And these are the results in
one year at one small chapel in the north
of London.
What about the "cures" at home and
Continental spas, with their eternal
round of sulphur and. iron waters and
baths?
Does the doctor attached to the spa,
in his heart of hearts believe that all
the cures which in these cases he cheer-
fully certifies to are effected by the wa-
ters, or even the waters and the diet, or
even the waters and the diet and the air;
or does he not think there must be a
"something else" as well? And to come
nearer home and into the center of all
things, and the chamber of all his se-
crets: In his own consulting room and
in his own practice, is not the physician
brought face to face with cures, aye,
and diseases, too, the cause of which he
389
The :J{j_;w Psychology
cannot account for; and is he not often
surprised to find a continuation of the
same treatment originated by the local
practitioners is, when continued by his
august self, efficacious? And is not the
local practitioner not only surprised but
disgusted as well to find such is the case?
Does any practical medical man, after
all, really doubt these mental powers?
Is he not aware of the ingredient
"faith," which, if added to his prescrip-
tions, makes them often all-powerful for
good? Does he know experimentally
the value of strongly asserting that the
medicine will produce such and such
effects as a powerful means of securing
them?
If, then, this power is so well known,
why in the name of common sense is it
ignored? It has its laws of action, its
limitations, its power for good and for
390
r:YrCental r:YrCedicine
evil; would it not clearly help the med-
ical student if these were indicated to
him by his lawful teachers, instead of his
gleaning them uncertainly from the un-
doubted successes of the large army of
irregulars?
We are, however, inclined to think
that, after all, a silent revolution is
slowly taking place in the minds of med-
ical men, and that our present text-books
on disease, content with merely prescrib-
ing any mental cure in a single line as
unworthy of serious consideration, will
in time be replaced by others contain-
ing views more worthy of the century
in which we live.
391
Orthobiosis
Part Fifteen
ORTHOBIOSIS
V
IRGIL says: "Happy is he
who has found the cause of
things."
It was Metchnikoff who tried, after
his investigations into the physical, to
apply ethics to life, so that life might
be lived to the full, which is the true
wisdom. He called this condition ortho-
biosis. He held that the end of science
is to rid the world of its scourges,
through hygiene and other measures of
prophylaxis.
Our manner of life, says Mme. Metch-
nikoff, transcribing her husband's idea,
will have to be modified and directed ac-
cording to rational and scientific data if
we are to run through the normal cycle
of life-orthobiosis. The pursuit of that
395
'The ~w 'P.rychology
goal will ever influence the basis of
morals. Orthobiosis cannot be accessible
to all until knowledge, rectitude and sol-
idarity increase among men, and until
social conditions are kinder.
Like all faculties, faith has a center
through which it functions-the pineal
gland. Faith is therefore physical, just
as disease may be spiritual; spirit and
body are but parts of a glorious whole.
The cure of disease requires the use of
Cosmic Force; and who shall say that
that force-whether we call it God, Na-
ture, Oversoul, Brahma, Vis M edica-
trix N aturae, Prana, Logos, or Divine
Will, does not manifest itself through
material means, as well as spiritual?
"Plato," Dr. Butler tells us, "said
that man is a plant rooted in heaven, and
we agree to this, that he is also rooted
in the earth." In fact, man may be said
396
Orthob£osis
to have two origins, one earthly and
physical, the other spiritual, though the
former originates in the latter-so that
ultimately the origin is one ...
"Man is an organism. De Quincey
defines an organism as a group of parts
which act upon the whole, the whole in
turn acting upon all the parts. This is
simple and true.
"It is paradoxical that mind, though
a principal and usually a determining
part of a human organism's actions and
reactions, has by formal medicine been
disregarded as a primary cause in pretty
much all of those bodily disorders which
are not produced by contagion. But of
late years autointoxication and disturb-
ances of the ductless glands have come
into increased consideration. Their op-
e.rations are being gradually traced to
origins beyond the physical body, and
397
'The J\{j_,w Psychology
definitely located in states of mind.
These states are coming within the scope
of diagnostics; enlightened medical art
brings them under treatment."
Recognition of the influence of mind
upon the body was recognized even of
old, as far back as Hippocrates, and
probably anterior to him. Mandeville,
in the 14th century, approved of the
custom of reciting certain verses of the
psalms when taking medicine; nor was
he averse to pilgrimages undertaken in
search of health- he held that no harm
could be done, while the potentialities of
good were great. The value of the phys-
ical exercise in going on a pilgrimage,
usually on foot, with most of the time
spent in the open air, need scarcely be
pointed out. Many a cure of lethargy
and obesity in the middle ages and after
owed its efficacy to the insistence of fa-
398
Orthobiosis
mous physicians that the patients, no
matter how wealthy or high-born, were
to come from their dwellings on foot, in
all humility, refusing to extend treat-
ment otherwise.
Ignatius of Loyola is credited with
saying: "Do everything you c~
h
~he idea that everythin~ depends on you,_
~nd then hope for_ results just as if
e_yerything depended on God."
It will be found that the sanest, most
catholic and liberal exponents of each
school of healing generously admit the
value of other schools and the limita-
tions of their own. The responsible
healer of the future, who truly respects
his honorable calling, will employ all
beneficial, constructive agencies at the
disposal of science. Thus, we have an
eminent occultist saying:
"In cases of misplacement, dislocation,
399
'The ~w Psychology
or broken bones, the quickest way to ob-
tain relief is to send for a competent
physician or anatomist and have an ad-
justment made of the injured member or
organ. In cases of disruptions of blood-
vessels or muscles, a surgeon's aid should
be immediately sought; not because mind
is unable to cure any or all of these
cases, but because of the fact that at the
present time, even among educated peo-
ple, mind is many times impotent
through misuse or non-use. Mental
treatment should follow these physical
treatments in order to obviate unneces-
sary suffering and to obtain rapid recov-
ery."
We can not do better than to quote
Sir William Osler, Bt., M. D., F. R.
Sx.:
"The salvation of science lies in a
recognition of a new philosophy-the
400
Orthobiosis
scientia scientiarum of which Plato
speaks: 'Now when all these studies
reach the point of intercommunion and
connection with one another and come
to be considered in their mutual affin-
ities, then, I think, and not till then, will
the pursuit of them have a value.' "
"The Old Humanities and the New
Science."
Scientists assume that there is one sub-
stance only, and therefore their deduced
science is the science of that substance,
and none other; and yet they are con-
fronted with the fact that their one sub-
stance is differentiated, and that when
they come to the finest degree thereof, as
for instance bioplasm, they are brought
face to face with the operation of higher
laws than they are familiar with, or can
adequately explain.
Many scientists, however, with a
401
The ~w Psychology
broader view, are beginning to glimpse
a "fourth dimension," and recognize the
fact that there may be degrees of matter
which are utterly beyond their chemical
tests and microscopic lens.
But a new day is dawning, the tele-
phone, the telegraph and the wireless
are now coming into general use and it
is now possible to make use of every
avenue of information and knowledge.
It is therefore but a question of time
when the sick will have the benefit of all
that is known in the art of healing.
The physician frequently loses his pa-
tient because he refuses to recognize the
spiritual nature of the patient, and that
because of his spiritual nature there are
certain fundamental laws governing in
the spiritual world, and that these laws
continue to operate whether he recog-
nizes them or not, and the rnetaphysician
402
Orthobiosis
frequently loses his patient because he
refuses to recognize that the body of the
patient is the material manifestation of
the spirit within, and that the condition
of the body is but an expression of the
spirit.
But all this iconoclasm is but the re-
sult of a certain conservatism which is
both human and natural. With the wis-
dom which the years are bringing there
will soon be no one who cannot see that
the germ is not only the cause of dis-
ease but the result of disease, that bac-
teria is the result of impure water not
the cause of impure water, and so with
everything else.
What we can see, handle or touch are
never causes, but always effects, and if
it is our purpose to simply substitute
one form of distress for another we shall
continue to deal with effects and effects
403
'Ihe J\&,w Psychology
only, but if it is our purpose to bring
about a remedy, we shall seek the cause
by which alone every effect is brought
into existence, and this cause will never
be found in the world of effects.
In the new era, abnormal, mental and
emotional conditions will be immedi-
ately detected and corrected. Tissue ·in
process of destruction will be eliminated
or reconstructed by the constructive
methods at the disposal of the physician.
Abnormal lesions will be corrected by
manipulative treatment, but above and
beyond all of this will be the primary
and essential idea, the idea upon which
all results will depend and that is that
no inharmonious or destructive thought
shall be allowed to reach the patient, that
every thought for him or about him
shall be constructive, for every phy-
sician, every nurse, every attendant,
404
Orthobiosis
every relative will eventually come to
know that thoughts are spiritual things,
which are ever seeking manifestation,
and that as soon as they find fertile soil
they begin to germinate.
Not all thoughts find expression in the
objective world and especially in the
health and environment of the patient.
This is because not all patients are re-
sponsive, but when the patient finds that
these invisible guests come laden with
precious gifts, they will be given a royal
welcome. This welcome will be sub-
conscious because the thoughts of others
are received subconsciously.
The conscious mind receives thought
only through the organs of perception,
which are its method of contact with the
objective world; which are the five
senses, seeing, hearing, feeling, tasting
and smelling.
The ~w Psychology
Subconscious thought is received by
any organ of the b'ody affected; and
think of the mechanism which has been
provided and which can and does ob-
jectify the thought received. First the
millions of cell chemists ready and wait-
ing to carry out all instructions received.
Next the complete system of communi-
cation, consisting of the vast sympathetic
nervous system reaching every fibre of
the being and ready to respond to the
slightest emotion of joy or fear, of hope
or despair, of courage or impotence.
Next the complete manufacturing
plant consisting of a series of glands
wherein are manufactured all the secre-
tions necessary for the use of the chem-
ists in carrying out the instructions which
have been given.
Then there is the complete digestive
tract wherein food, water and air are
406
Orthobiosis
converted into blood, bone, skin, hair
and nails.
Then there is the supply department
which constantly sends a supply of Oxy-
gen, Nitrogen and Ether into every pa'rt
of the being, and the wonder of it all is
that this Ether holds in solution every-
thing necessary for the use of the chem-
ist, for the Ether holds in pure form,
and food, water, and air in the secon-
dary form every element necessary for
the use of the chemist in the production
of a perfect man.
Why then do not these chemists pro-
duce a perfect specimen of manhood?
The reply is simple, the prescriptions
which consist of thoughts received by
the subconscious call for nothing of the
kind, in fact, they usually call for ex-
actly the reverse.
The subconscious is also provided
407
The :At:!_,w Psychology
with a complete equipment for the elim-
ination of waste and useless material as
well as a complete repair department.
In addition to this there is a complete
system of wireless whereby it is con-
nected with every other subconscious
entity in existence.
We are not usually conscious of the
operation of this wireless, but the same
thing is true concerning the operation
of the Marconi System. There may be
messages of all kinds all about us, but
unless we make use of an amplifier, we
receive no message, and so with our sub-
conscious wireless. Unless we try to
coordinate the conscious and the subcon-
scious we fail to realize that the subcon-
scious is constantly receiving messages
of some kind and just as constantly ob-
jectifying the messages in our life and
environment.
Orthobiosis
This then is the mechanism devised
and planned by the Creator, J:Iimself,
and it has been placed under the super-
vision of the subconscious instead of the
conscious mind, but let us not forget that
the subconscious mind with all of its
wonderful mechanism can be controlled
and dominated by the conscious mind
when it becomes attuned to the Universal
Mind, where all that is, or ever was, or
ever shall be, is held in solution waiting
to come forth and manifest in form.
Every day that is born into the world
comes like a burst of music, and rings
itself all the day through; and thou shalt
make of it a dance, a dirge or a life
march, as thou wilt.
-Carlyle.
c.Biochemistry
Part Sixteen
BIOCHEMISTRY
B
IOCHEMISTRY is a science,
whose concern is with vital proc-
esses, and which has availed
itself of the cell theory and of the prin-
ciple of the infinite divisibility of matter.
It also makes use of the homeopathic
dose. The dose must be proportionate
to the patient, the cell; for, as Virchow
has pointed out, "the essence of disease
is the cell, changed pathogenically."
Dr. Schuessler, the originator of Bio-
chemistry, arrived at his conclusions by
studying the elements, nature, and func-
tions of human blood. The cells receive
their sustenance, their life-supply, from
the blood and lymph, which, in their
turn, derive their supply from the ele-
ments taken in as food. Normalcy in
413
The ~w Psychology
the supply of these elements means
health; any deviation, a disturbance of
health.
Dr. Schuessler placed the number of
mineral combinations in the human
body at twelve; in the last edition, 1895,
he reduced the number to eleven. These
all-necessary cell-salts are:
Potassium Chloride, Potassium Phos-
phate, Potassium Sulphate, Sodium
Chloride, Sodium Phosphate, Sodium
Sulphate, Phosphate of Lime, Fluoride
of Lime, Phosphate of Magnesia, Phos-
phate of Iron, Silica.
Milk contains all these elements;
other foods can give them in combina-
tion. Cremation reduces the body to
these elements.
Each kind of cell depends upon a dif-
ferent salt, or combination of salts, for
its food; a lack of any of these salts is
414
r:B£ochem£stry
shown by certain symptoms; the proper
tissue salts, in right proportions, are
given to remove the symptoms, since a
removal of the symptoms implies a re-
moval of the need, or disease, in the cell.
It must be remembered, however, that
the cells are not fed, they feed them-
selves; and any attempt to compel them
to accept more than they require causes
disaster. They voluntarily accept what
is necessary and they reject what they
do not need.
The difference in the cells consists in
the kind and quality of the inorganic
tissue salts of which they are composed.
Health, therefore, requires the requi-
site quantity of cell-salts, and a lack of
some one of these organic tissue salts
results in imperfect cell action and dis-
eased tissue.
The controlling principle which
415
'The ~w Psychology
underlies every manifestation of form
may be epitomized as follows: "In the
apportionment and grouping of the ele-
ments that constitute a thing lies the
cause, not only of the form, but also of
its functions and qualities."
Dr. Charles W. Littlefield, M. D., the
author of "The Beginning and the Way
of Life," gives some very beautiful illus-
trations of the application of this law,
in the chapter on the "Elements and
Compounds of Nature," in which he
says:
"Within the scope and application of
this principle of grouping of electrons,
as the law of origin of elements, mole-
cules, tissues, organs and forms, will be
found a practical solution to every prob-
lem in biology from the origin and dif-
ferentiation of species to every modifica-
tion of form and configuration of outline
416
"Biochemistry
that mark individuals with character-
istic personalities, both physical and
mental ... It is well known in chem-
istry that the molecule is the smallest
part of any substance that can exist
separately and still retain its properties.
.Since the nature of the molecule is de-
termined by the polarities, number and
arrangement of the 'electrons' which
compose it, and since all structures in
the mineral, vegetable and animal king-
doms are molecular, it follows that in
the last analysis the grouping and ap-
portionment of negative and positive
'electrons' in the molecule determine
in turn the nature and physical condi-
tions of the form, whether it be perfect
or imperfect. Deformity, personal likes
and dislikes, are only questions of being
'electronically' balanced or unbalanced,
through supply or lack of supply of the
417
The ~w Psychology
forms of molecules that compose the
organism. Only the spirit-mind-image
of man, however, can make this group-
ing of molecules for the perfecting of a
human form. To bring humanity to a
state of primitive perfection, therefore,
not only must the same material, pre-
pared in the same manner, be supplied,
but the environment of forces must be
the same as those employed by the Crea-
_tive Spirit in the beginning.
"Since then, we are able to trace
every elemental form of matter back to
some definite grouping of negative and
positive electrons, that is, through vary-
ing numbers and arrangements of these;
and since we find life manifesting
through various forms as determined by
diiferent molecular groupings-by law
of composition-and since it is rational
to place Divine Mind behind this physi-
418
'!Biochemistry
cal process, we are justified in assuming
that Divine Mind-Images of living
thir,,gs preceded their physical develop-
mer t. Therefore, in the ultimate science
of being, idealism is more probable than
materialism. But, while mind may thus
-~ist alone there in the realm of cause,
~re .in the realm of phenomena, we
always have a psycho-physical parallel-
ism, a realism, where everything must
be explaided by mind and matter, but
by neither alone. While the spiritual
entity which constitutes the real self may
well be assumed to be akin to the Su-
preme Mind, being a particular mind-
image thereof in the line of descent,
having power of choice and therefore of
independent action, it is unquestionably
limited, like that of the player by his
instrument, by bodily conditions."
419
'Ihe X!_,w 'Psychology
In "The Chemistry of Life,''
George W. Carey says:
/
"So-called disease is neither a per-
son, place nor thing."
The symptoms of sensation, called dis-.
ease, are the results of lacking material
1 -a deficiency in the dynamic molecules
that carry on the orderly procedure of
life. The effect of the deficiency causes
unpleasant sensations, pains, exudations,
swellings; or overheated tissue caused
by increased motion of blood.
The increased motion is the effort na-
ture, or chemical law, makes to restore
equilibrium with the diminished mole-
cules of blood builders. By the law of
the conservation of energy the increased
motion is changed to heat. We call this
effect fever.
Biochemistry means the Chemistry of
Life, or the union of inorganic and or-
420
/
./
r;_siochemistry
ganic substances whereby new com-
pounds are formed.
In its relation to so-called disease this
system uses the inorganic salts, known
as Cell-salts, or tissue builders.
The constituent parts of man's body
are perfect principles, namely, oxygen,
hydrogen, carbon, lime, iron, potash,
soda, silica, magnesia, etc. These ele-
ments, gases, etc., are perfect per se, but
may be endlessly diversified in combina-
tion as may the planks, bricks, or stones
with which a building is to be erected.
Symptoms, called disease, disappear
or cease to manifest when the food called
for is furnished.
The human body is a receptacle for a
storage battery, and will always run
right while the chemicals are present in
proper quantity and combination, as
surely as an automobile will run when
421
'Tlze ~w Psychology
charged and supplied with the necessary
ingredients to vibrate or cause motion.
The cell-salts are found in all our
food, and are thus carried into the blood,
where they carry on the process of life,
and by the law of Chemical Affinity keep
the human form, bodily functions, mate-
rialized. When a deficiency occurs in
any of these workers through a non-as-
similation of food, poor action of liver
or digestive process, dematerialization of
the body commences. So disease is a
deficiency in some of the chemical con-
stituents that carry on the chemistry of
life.
Biochemists have shown that food does
not form blood, but simply furnishes the
mineral base ·by setting free the inor-
ganic or cell-salts contained in all food
stuff. The organic part, oil, fibrin, albu-
min, etc., contained in food is burned
422
13iochemistry
or digested in the stomach and intesti-
nal tract to furnish motive power to
operate the human machine and draw
air into lungs, thence into arteries, i. e.,
air carriers.
Therefore, it is clearly proven that
air unites with the minerals and forms
blood, proving that the oil, albumin,
etc., found in blood, is created every
breath.
Increase the rate of activity of the
brain cells by supplying more of the
dynamic molecules of the blood known
as mineral or cell-salts of lime, potash,
sodium, iron, magnesia, silica, and we
see mentally, truths that we could not
sense at lower or natural rates of mo-
tion, although the lower rate may mani-
fest ordinary health.
Natural man, or natural things must
be raised from the level of nature to su-
423
I
The ~w 'Psychology
pernatural, in order to realize new con-
cepts that lie waiting for recognition.
By this regenerative process millions
of dormant cells of the brain are resur-
rected and set in operation, and then
man no longer "sees through a glass
darkly," but with the Eye of Spiritual
understanding.
"This above all: To thine own self be true,
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man."
424
"'Tis shown in Life's puzzles and sorrowings,
'Tis taught by remorse with its secret stings,
That he who grief to another brings,
One day, in his turn, must weep.
"From the past doth the present eternally spring;
You may sow what you will, but tomorrow will
bring
You the harvest, to show you the manner of
thing
Is the seed you have chosen to sow!"
The ~w Psychology
'Part Seventeen
THE NEW PSYCHOLOGY
T
HE observation and analysis,
knowledge and classification of
the activities of the personal
consciousness, consisting of the science of
psychology, has been studied in colleges
and universities for many years, but
this personal or conscious self-conscious
mind does not by any means constitute
the whole of the mind.
There are some very highly complex,
and very orderly activities going on
within the body of an infant. The body
of the infant, as such, cannot induce or
carry on those activities, and the con-
scious mind of the infant does not know
enough to even plan them or be aware
of them. Probably also in most cases
there is no one around the infant who
429
'Ihe ~w Psychology
even remotely understands what is going
on in this highly complex process of
physical life; and yet all those activities
manifest intelligence, and intelligence of
a very complex and high order.
From the examination of what goes on
in the human body, from all the com-
plex processes, the beating of heart and
digestion of the food, the secretion and
excretion of the glands, it is apparent,
that there is in control an order of
mentality which has a high degree of
intelligence, but it is the mentality which
is operating in the millions of cells
which constitute the body, and so oper-
ate below the surface of what we term
consciousness. It is therefore, subcon-
scious.
The subconscious mind, again, assumes
two phases. Connected with each human
person there is a subconsciousness which
430
'The ~w Psychology
may m some sense be regarded as the
subconsciousness of that person, but
which merges at a still deeper level into
what may be termed Universal subcon-
sciousness, or into cosmic consciousness.
That may be illustrated in this way: If
you will think of the waves on the sur-
face of a lake, insofar as they are above
the level of the troughs, as standing for
so many personal mentalities; and then,
if you will think of a small body of
water not rising above the surface, but
in some degree running along with each
wave and merging indistinctly at the
bottom into the great unmoved mass be-
low, which may be thought of as the
deepest level, then those three levels of
the water in the lake may illustrate to
you personal consciousness or self-con-
sciousness, personal subconsciousness,
and universal subconsciousness or cosmic
431
:The ~w Psychology
consciousness. Now, out of cosmic con-
sciousness springs personal subconscious-
ness, and out of _
that in turn, or in
connection with it, rises personal con-
sciousness.
At the beginning of the experience of
the child, its government is almost
wholly from subconsciousness, but as it
goes on, it becomes aware maybe uncon-
sciously, but still in a degree aware of
the presence of laws of consciousness
which manifest as justice, truthfulness,
honesty, purity, liberty, loving-kindness,
and so on, and begins to relate itself to
them and to be governed by them more
and more.
The first thing to note is that, while
this mental action is going on continu-
ously, we are normally quite unconscious
of it. For this reason it is known as the
subconscious department of the mind to
432
'Ihe ~w 'Psychology
distinguish it from that part which func-
tions through the senses of which we are
conscious, and which we call the self-
conscious. The existence in the body of
two distinct nervous systems, the cerebro-
spinal and the sympathetic, each with its
own field of operation and its special
functions, prepared us for these two
mental departments.
The cerebra-spinal system is used .by
the self-conscious and the sympathetic
by the subconscious. And just as we find
in the body that, while the functions and
activities of the two nervous systems are
different, provision has been made for
very close inter-action between the two,
so we will find that, while the functions
and activities of the two mental depart-
ments are different, there is a very defi-
nite line of activity between them.
The main business of the subconscious
433
'Ihe ·~w Psychology
mind is to preserve the life and health
of the individual. Consequently it su-
pervises all the automatic functions,
such as the circulation of the blood, the
digestion, all automatic muscular action
and so on. It transforms food into suit-
able material for body building, return-
ing it to conscious man m the form of
energy.
Conscious man makes use of this
energy in mental and physical work, and
in the process uses up what has been
provided for him by his subconscious
intelligence.
The action of the subconscious is
cumulative and may be illustrated in
the following manner. Suppose you
take a tub of water and begin to stir it
with a small piece of wood from right
to left, with a circular motion. At first
you will start only a ripple around the
434
'Ihe ~w 'Psychology
wood, but if you keep the wood m
motion with the circular movement,
the water will gradually accumulate the
strength which you are putting into
the wood, and presently you will have the
whole tub of water in a whirl. If you
were then to drop the piece of wood,
the water would carry along the instru-
ment that originally set it in motion,
and if you were suddenly to stop the
wood while it is still projecting in the
water, there would be a strong tendency
to not only carry the wood forward, but
to take your hand along with it. Now,
suppose that after you have the water
whirling, you decide that you do not
want it to whirl, or think that you
would prefer to have it whirl in the
other direction, and so try to set it go-
ing the other way, you will find that
there is great resistance, and you will
435
'Ihe :J{!_,w Psychology
find that it will take a long while to
bring the water to a standstill, and a
still longer time before you get it going
the other way.
This will illustrate that whatever the
conscious mind does repeatedly the sub-
conscious will accumulate as a habit, any
experience which the subconscious re-
ceives is stirred up and if you give it
another one of the same kind it will add
that to the former one and so keep on
accumulating them indefinitely, the
tendency being to accumulate activity
along any definite line in increasing
measure, and this holds true concerning
any phase of activity that comes within
range of human consciousness. This is
true whether the experiences are for
our benefit or otherwise, whether the
experiences are good or evil. The sub-
conscious is a spiritual activity and
436
'Ihe J\&__,w 'Psychology
spirit is creative, the subconscious there-
fore creates the habits, condition and en-
vironment which the conscious mind
continues to entertain.
If we consciously entertain thoughts
associated with art, music and the
aesthetic realm, if we consciously enter-
tain thoughts associated with the good,
the true and the beautiful, we shall find
these thoughts taking root in the sub-
consciousness and our experiences and
environment will be a reflection of the
thought which the conscious mind has
entertained. If, however, we entertain
tfioughts of hatred, jealousy, envy, hypoc-
risy, disease, lack or limitation of any
kind, we shall find our experience and
environment will reflect the conditions
in accordance with these thoughts: "As
we sow, so shall we reap," the law is no
respecter of persons; we may think what
437
'The J\(f_,w Psychology
we will, but the result of our thoughts
is governed by an immutable law.
"There is nothing either good or evil,
but thinking makes it so." We cannot
plant seed of one kind and reap fruit
of another.
Consciousness consists in the power to
think, to know, to will and to choose,
self consciousness is the power to be
aware of the self as a thinking, know-
ing, willing and choosing individual.
The brain is the organ of the conscious
mind and the cerebra-spinal nervous
system is the system of nerves by which
it is connected with all parts of the body.
The process of growth is a subcon-
scious process, we do not carry on the
vital processes of nature consciously, all
the complex processes of nature, the beat-
ing of the heart, the digestion of food,
the secretion of the glands require a
438
'The :J..&__,w 'Psychology
high degree of mentality and intelli-
gence. The personal consciousness or
mind would not be capable of handling
these intricate problems they are there-
fore controlled by the Universal Mind,
which in the individual we call the sub-
consc10us.
The Universal Mind is sometimes re,
ferred to as the Super-Conscious, and
sometimes the Divine Mind. The sub-
conscious is sometimes called the sub-
jective and the conscious the objective
mind, but remember that words are sim-
ply the vessels in which thought is car-
ried. If you get the thought you will
not be concerned about the terms.
Mind is a spiritual activity and spirit
is creative, hence the subconscious mind
not only controls all the vital functions
and processes of growth, but is the seat
of memory and habit.
439
The ~w 'Psychology
The sympathetic nervous system is the
instrument by which the subconscious
keeps in touch with the feeling or emo-
tions, thus the subconscious reacts to the
emotions, never to the reason, as the
emotions are much stronger than the
reason or intellect; the individual will
therefore frequently act in exactly the
opposite manner from what the reason
and intellect would dictate.
It is axiomatic that two things cannot
occupy the same space at the same time.
What is true of things is true of thoughts.
If, therefore, any thought seeks entrance
to the mental realm which is destructive
in its nature, it should be quickly dis-
placed by a thought which has a con-
structive tendency. Herein lies the
value of a ready made affirmation, such
as the Coue affirmation, "Day by day,
m every way, I am growing better and
440
The ~w Psychology
better," or the Andrews affirmation, "I
am whole, perfect, strong, powerful, lov-
ing, harmonious and happy." These or
similar affirmations may be committed
to memory and repeated until they be-
come automatic or subconscious. As
physical conditions are but the outward
manifestations of mental conditions, it
will readily be seen that by constantly
holding the thought expressed in the
affirmation in the mind, that it will be
but a comparatively short time until
conditions and environment begin to
change so as to be in accordance with
the new method of thinking.
This same principle can be brought
into operation in a negative way, through
the process of denial. Many make use
of this with excellent results.
The conscious and subconscious are
but two phases of action in connection
441
The ~w Psychology
with the mind. The relation of the sub-
conscious to the conscious is quite anal-
ogous to that existing between a weather
vane and the atmosphere. Just as the
least pressure of the atmosphere causes
an action on the part of the weather
vane, so does the least thought enter-
tained by the conscious mind produce
within the subconscious mind action in
exact proportion to the depth of feeling
characterizing the thought and the in-
tensity with which the thought is in-
dulged.
It follows that if you deny unsatis-
factory conditions, you are withdrawing
the creative power of your thought from
these conditions. You are cutting them
away at the root. You are sapping their
vitality.
The law of growth necessarily governs
every manifestation in the objective, so
442
The J\&_,w Psychology
that a denial of unsatisfactory conditions
will not bring about instant change. A
plant will remain visible for some time
after its roots have been cut, but it will
gradually fade away and eventually dis-
appear, so the withdrawal of your
thought from the contemplation of un-
satisfactory conditions will gradually but
surely terminate these conditions.
This is exactly an opposite course from
the one which we would naturally be
inclined to adopt. It will therefore have
an exactly opposite effect to the one
usually secured. Most persons concen-
trate upon unsatisfactory conditions,
thereby giving the condition that mea-
sure of energy and vitality which is
necessary in order to supply a vigorous
growth.
443
The stars come nightly to the sk.y;
The tidal wave comes to the sea;
Nor time, nor space, nor deep, nor high
Can keep my owr\ away from me.
- John Burroughs.
The possibilities of thought trammg
are infinite, its consequence eternal, and
yet few take the pains to direct their
thinking into channels that will do them
good, but instead leave all to chance, or,
rather, to the myriad of circumstances
that buffet and compel our mental action
if counter effort is not made.
-Marden.
Suggestion
Part eighteen
SUGGESTION
M
R. C. HARRY BROOKS
tells of a very interesting and
instructive visit to the clinic
of Dr. Emile Coue in a book entitled
the Practice of Auto-suggestion, pub-
lished by Dodd, Mead & Co. The clinic
is situated in a pleasant garden attached
to Dr. Coue's house at the end of the rue
Jeanne d'Arc, in Nancy. He states that
when he arrived the room reserved for
patients was already crowded, but in
spite of that, eager newcomers con-
stantly tried to gain entrance. The win-
dow sills on the ground floor were beset
and a dense knot had formed in the
door. The patients had occupied every
available seat and were sitting on camp
stools and folding chairs.
447
The ~w Psychology
He then tells of the many remarkable
cures which Dr. Coue proceeded to ef-
fect by no other means than suggestion
to the patient that the power of healing
lies within the patient himself. There
was also a children's clinic in charge
of Mademoiselle Kauffmant who de-
votes her entire time to this work.
Mr. Brooks thinks that Coue's dis-
coveries may profoundly affect our life
and education because it teaches us that
the burdens of life are, at least in a
large measure, of our own creating.
We reproduce in ourselves and in our
circumstances the thoughts of our minds.
It goes further, it offers us a means by
which we can change these thoughts
when they are evil and foster them when
they are good, so producing a corre-
sponding betterment in our individual
life. But the process does not end with
448
Suggesti'on
the individual. The thoughts of society
are realized in social conditions, the
thoughts of humanity in world condi-
tions. What would be the attitude to-
wards our social and international prob-
lems of a generation nurtured from in-
fancy in the knowledge and practice of
auto-suggestion? If each person found
happiness in his own heart, would the
illusory greed for possession survive?
The acceptance of auto-suggestion en-
tails a change of attitude, a revaluation
of life. If we stand with our faces
westward we see nothing but clouds and
darkness, yet by a simple turn of the
head we bring the wide panorama of
the sunrise into view.
The New York Times, under date of
Aug. 6, 1922, published an excellent like-
ness of Emile Coue and a review of his
work by Van Buren Thorne, M. D. He
449
The :J.&_,w Psychology
says that the keynote to the system of
treatment of mental and physical ills
devised and elaborated by Emile Coue
of Nancy, France, can be described in a
single paragraph:
"The individual is possessed of two
minds, called the conscious and the un-
conscious. The latter is referred to by
some psychologists as the subconscious
mind, and is literally the humble and
obedient servant of the conscious mind.
The unconscious mind is the director
and overseer of our internal economy.
By means of its activities the processes
of digestion and assimilation of foods
are carried on, repairs are made, wastes
are eliminated, our vital organs func-
tion and life itself persists. When the
thought arises in the conscious mind
that extra efforts toward the repair of
some deficiency, either physical or men-
450
Suggestion
tal are needed, all the individual has
to do, in the opinion of Dr. Coue, is
audibly to enunciate that thought in the
form of a direct suggestion to the uncon-
scious mind, and that humble obedient
servant immediately, and without ques-
tioning the dictates of its conscious
master, proceeds to obey instructions."
Dr. Coue, Mr. Brooks, and large
numbers of persons of repute in France,
England, and elsewhere in Europe, have
declared that the results in many cases
under their direct observation have been
nothing short of marvelous. Those who
have not witnessed the benefits of this
fo.rm of treatment-hence may incline
to be skeptical-are more likely to give
attention to what follows when they are
informed of three facts regarding the
Nancy practice. First, Dr. Coue has
never accepted a penny for his treat-
451
'Ihe J\f!_,w 'Psychology
ments in the many years of his ministra-
tion; second, he is in the habit of ex-
plaining to his patients that he possesses
no healing powers, has never healed a
person in his life, and that they must
find the instruments of their own well-
being in themselves; third, that any indi-
vidual can treat himself without consult-
ing any other person.
It may be added that a child who is
capable of comprehending the fact of
the conscious and subconscious mind,
and is competent to issue orders from one
to the other, is quite capable of the self-
administration of the treatment.
"For what man knoweth the things of
a man save the spirit of the man which
is in him?" Mr. Brooks quotes from
·First Corinthians for his title page.
Doubtless this was selected as an apt
biblical reference to the existence of the
452
Suggestion
conscious and unconscious minds. But
neither the treatment, nor this book
about it, dwells at length upon any pos-
sible religious significance of the methods
employed or the results obtained.
The single thing that has contributed
largely to the recent rapid spread of
knowledge concerning Dr. Coue's
method of practice at Nancy is his in-
sistence upon the benefits to be derived
from the frequent repetition of this
formula: "Day by day, in every way,
I'm getting better and better." As I
remarked, no great stress is laid upon
the religious significance of his alleged
cures; yet, says Mr. Brooks, "religious
minds who wish to associate the formula
with God's care and protection might do
so after this fashion: 'Day by day, in
every way, by the help of God, I'm get-
ting better and better.' " The secret of
453
The X!.,w Psychology
success m the treatment is to so beget
confidence in the conscious mind that
what it repeats is accepted at its face
value by the unconscious mind, and as
Mr. Brooks puts it: "Every idea which
enters the conscious mind, if it is ac-
cepted by the unconscious, is transformed
by it into a reality and forms henceforth
a permanent element in our life."
But let us see how this book came to
be written, and then watch Dr. Coue at
work.
Mr. Brooks is an Englishman who be-
came interested in Dr. Coue's work at
Nancy and went there to observe it at
first hand. In his foreword to the vol-
ume, Dr. Coue says that l\.1r. Brooks
visited him for several weeks last sum-
mer, and that he was the first English-
man who came to Nancy with the ex-
press purpose of studying methods of
454
Suggestion
conscious auto-suggestion. He attended
Dr. Coue's consultations and obtained a
full mastery of the method. Then the
two men threshed out a good deal of the
theory on which the treatment rests.
Dr. Coue says that Mr. Brooks skill-
fully seized on the essentials and that he
has put them forward in the volume in
a manner that seems to· him both simple
and clear.
"It is a method," says Dr. Coue,
"which every one should follow-the
sick to obtain healing, the healthy to
prevent the coming of disease in the
future. By its practice we can insure
for ourselves, all our lives long, an excel-
lent state of health, both of the mind
and the body."
Now let us enter Dr. Coue's clinic
with Mr. Brooks. Back of the house
there is a pleasant garden with flowers,
455
'The ~w 'Psychology
strawberry beds, and fruit-laden trees.
Groups of patients occupy the garden
seats. There are two brick buildings-
the waiting and consultation rooms.
These are crowded with patients-men,
women and children.
Coue immediately proceeds to his
work. Patient No. 1 is a man of mid-
dle age and frail. He can scarcely walk,
and his head, legs and arms shake with
an exaggerated tremor. His daughter
supports him. Coue invites him to arise
and walk. Aided by a stick, he staggers
across the floor a few steps.
Coue tells him he is going to get
better, and adds: "You have been sow-
ing bad seed in your Unconscious; now
you will sow good seed. The power by
which you have produced such ill-effects
will in the future produce equally good
ones."
456
Suggestion
"Madame," he tells a woman who
breaks into a torrent of complaint, "you
think too much about your ailments,
and in thinking of them you create fresh
ones."
He tells a girl with headaches, a youth
with inflamed eyes, and a laborer with
varicose veins, that auto-suggestion
should bring complete relief. He comes
to a neurasthenic girl who is making her
third visit to the clinic and who has
been practicing the method at home for
ten days. She says she is getting better.
She can now eat heartily, sleep soundly,
and is beginning to enjoy life.
A big peasant, formerly a blacksmith,
next engages his attention. He says he
has not been able to raise his right arm
above the level of his shoulder for nearly
ten years. Coue predicts a complete
457
'The :JX.t,w Psychology
cure. For forty minutes he keeps on
with the interrogation of patients.
Then he pays attention to those w.ho
have come to tell him of the benefits they
have received. Here is a woman who
has had a painful swelling in her breast,
diagnosed by the doctor (in Coue's
opinion, wrongly), as cancerous. She
says that, with three weeks' treatment,
she has completely recovered. Another
has overcome her anaemia and has
gained nine pounds in weight. A third
says he has been cured of varicose ulcer;
while a fourth, a lifelong stammerer,
announces a complete cure in one sitting.
Coue now turns to the former black-
smith and says: "For ten years you have
been thinking that you could not lift
your arm above your shoulder; conse-
quently, you have not been able to do
458
r ;
Suggestion
so, for whatever we think becomes true
for us. Now think: 'I can lift it.'"
The man looks doubtful, says half-
heartedly, "I can," makes an effort, and
says it hurts.
"Keep it up," Coue commands in a
tone of authority, "and think 'I can, I
can!' Close your eyes and repeat with
me as fast as you can, 'r;a passe, r;a
passe.'"
After half a minute of this, Coue says,
"Now think well that you can lift your
arm."
"I can," says the man with conviction
and proceeds to raise it to full height,
where he holds it in triumph for all to
see.
"My friend," observes Df. Coue
quietly, "you are cured."
"It is marvelous," says the bewildered
blacksmith, "I believe it."
459
'Ihe ~w Psychology
"Prove it," says Coue, "by hitting me
on the shoulder," whereupon the blows
fall in regular sequence.
"Enough," cautions Coue, wincing
from the sledge-hammer blows. "Now
you can go back to your anvil."
Now he turns to patient No. r, the
tottering man. The sufferer seems in-
spired with confidence by what he has
seen. Under Coue's instructions he takes
control of himself, and in a few minutes
he is walking about with ease.
"When I get through with the clinic,"
says Coue, "you shall come for a run in
the garden."
And so it happens; very soon this pa-
tient is trotting around the enclosure at
five miles an hour.
Coue then proceeds to the formulation
of specific suggestions. The patients
46o
Suggestion
close their eyes and he speaks in a low,
monotonous voice. Here is an example:
"Say to yourself that all the words I
am about to utter will be fixed, im-
printed and engraved in your minds;
that they will remain fixed, imprinted
and engraven there, so that without your
will and knowledge, without your being
in any way aware of what is taking
place, you yourself and your whole or-
ganism will obey them. I tell you first
that every day, three times a day, morn-
ing, noon and evening, at meal times,
you will be hungry; that is to say, you
will feel that pleasant sensation which
makes us think and say: 'How I should
like something to eat.' You will then
eat with excellent appetite, enjoying
your food, but you will never eat too
much. You will eat the right amount,
neither too much nor too little, and you
461
The ~w Psychology
will know intuitively when you have
sufficient. You will masticate your food
thoroughly, transforming it into a
smooth paste before swallowing it. In
these conditions you will digest it well,
and so feel no discomfort of any kind
either in the stomach or in the intestines.
Assimilation will be perfectly per-
formed, and your organism will make
the best possible use of the food to create
blood, muscle, strength, energy, in a
word-Life."
"They .(Dr. Coue and Mlle. Kauff-
mant) ," says Mr. Brooks, "have placed
not only their private ·means, but their
whole life at the service of others.
Neither ever accepts a penny-piece for
the treatments they give, but I have
never seen Coue refuse to give a treat-
ment at however awkward an hour the
subject may have asked it. The fame of
462
Suggestion
the school has now spread to all parts,
not only France, but of Europe and
America. Coue's work has assumed such
proportions that his time is taken up
often to the extent of fifteen or sixteen
hours a day. He is a living monument
to the efficacy of 'Induced Auto-sug-
gestion.' "
In "Regeneration," Mr. Weltmer
says:
"The last battle in which the race is
engaged is now on. It is not a battle
of cannon and sword, but it is a conflict
of ideas. It is not going to be destruc-
tive, but constructive. It will not be a
destroying warfare, but a fulfilling. It
will not promote discord, but will insure
harmony. It will not knit the human
family together in combinations and as-
sociations, lodges and congregations, but
will individualize the race, and each
463
'The ~w Psychology
person will stand alone, recognizing
within himself all the potentialities that
exist, recognizing within himself all the
Divine principles, constituting a part of
the perfect whole.
"When man sees himself thus, he will
see this kingdom within is not within
him only but within all men. We must
assume that the power to do, to act, or
to perform the work we give our minds
to do, exists in the mind; but before we
entrust the mind with this work, we must
have a clear conception of what is to be
done. In order to regenerate the body
we must conclude or assume to be true,
that the power to generate life and
health is in us; we must know where it
is generated and how to generate it.
"Could we but comprehend it, could
the veil of ignorance that enshrouds us
be lifted, and we be allowed to look
464
Suggestion ·
into the storehouse of knowledge, such
as the prophet or seer was allowed to
look upon, could we but climb where
Moses stood, and view the landscape
o'er, could we experience what Paul did
during the time when he says: 'I know
not whether I was in the body or out of
the body,' we would be able to compre-
hend what he means when he says: 'Eye
hath not seen, nor ear heard, nor hath it
entered into the heart of man, the glory
that shall be revealed in us.'"
The brain is an organ through which
we communicate our thoughts to other
organs in our bodies, and receive im-
pressions from the outside through the
mediums of the senses. Great men have
by great thoughts developed a finer qual-
ity of brain than others ; this leads people
to think that the great mind was the out-
growth of the fine brain, when if they
465
The ~w 'Psychology
will look upon the brain as any other
organ of the perishable body they will
see that it is but the organ through
which the mind finds expression.
All attainments come in their regular
order, as orderly as the movements of the
sun and planets ; first we desire, second
we believe, third we try the belief,
fourth we have knowledge.
We entertain a belief, and the belief
comes into our minds and controls us.
A man in the throes of poverty can
throw off the shackles, if he can add to
his belief.
A suggestion, to be a controlling influ-
ence, must be a positive suggestion left
undisturbed; it must be regarded by the
person entertaining it as a fixture in his
life; not subject to change or modifica-
tion.
Still another method of making an ap-
466
Suggestion
plication of the principle of suggestion is
described by Mr. J. R. Seaward, of
Hamilton, Mont. He says:
"I am a man 36 years of age and have
a family, and they rejoice with me that
I am free from the use of tobacco. I
chewed, or rather ate the weed for 15
years. Didn't mean to form the habit
when I started in, but thought that it
was conducive to my growth from youth
to manhood. After the habit had grown
on me for several years unresisted, I dis-
covered that I was in the grip of a
slowly but surely growing octopus that
had me freely within its embrace, and
I was helpless to release myself. I had
followed carpenter and shop woodwork
for a trade, and all woodworkers know
there is something about lumber that
makes a man want to use tobacco. When
I got so that I had to chew all the time
467
'The ~w Psychology
and the strongest I could get and then
was not satisfied, I began to wonder
where I was headed for. Slowly the
idea that I was a slave to the weed
dawned on me and I began to think
about cutting down on it, or out alto-
gether.
"I will now explain to you the way in
which Friend Wife broke me of a vile
habit and convinced us both of the mar-
velous power of Suggestion when prop-
erly applied.
"At about the time that I struck bot-
tom, there came to my notice some litera-
ture telling of the power of directed
thought, and I became interested in the
study of that, and also in some inspira-
tional literature which later came to my
notice. I was rather skeptical at first,
but as I read and thought and com-
menced to look for proof m the events
468
Suggestion
of our daily lives and in our environ-
ment, the truth commenced to dawn
upon me. I began to see and know that
life manifestations were fed from within
and grew from within, and if the within
be in a state of decay, it invariably
showed without. In fact, I know now
that 'The Man of Galilee,' said some-
thing when He said, 'As a man thinketh
in his heart, so is he.' If he thinks him-
self a slave to tobacco or other obnoxious
habits, so is he. He must think himself
free to remain free, once he has gained
freedom.
"But to think one's self away from a
habit that clings as close as thought it-
self, is a hard matter unaided. At the
time we tried suggestion for the elimina-
tion of my tobacco habit I slept in one
bedroom with one of the children and
wife slept in another bedroom with our
469
'Ihe :JX£w Psychology
then youngest boy, about eight months
old. As often is the case she had to be
up at times during the night to wait on
the baby and it was at those times that
she gave me mental treatments while I
was asleep.
"It isn't necessary to be in the same
room, though it is all right if it happens
to be the case. While I was sleeping she
would visualize herself or mentally pro-
ject herself as though she was standing
or kneeling beside my bed and speak-
ing to me. Her suggestions were of a
constructive and positive nature rather
than of negative. It went something like
this: 'You are now desiring freedom
from the tobacco habit; you are free
and desire and enjoy mastery more than
indulgence; tomorrow you will want
only about half the normal amount of
tobacco and each day it will be less until
470
Suggestion
you are free within a week and shall
never have any more craving for to-
bacco. You are Master and free.'
"She made the above suggestion (in
substance) to me each time that she was
awake during the night and I do pledge
on oath that within six days from the
time she started treatment I had com-
pletely quit craving tobacco, and quit
using it. That has been several months
ago, and today I am more master of my
habits of thought and word and deed
than ever before in my life. I have
changed from an under-weight, nervous
wreck to a full-weight, healthful, strong,
energetic, and clear-thinking man, and
everyone who knew me remarks how
differently I look and act and seem.
Since that time, I have followed the
study and the practice of constructive
and directed thinking."
471
'The ~w Psychology
You know that in wireless telegraphy
or telephony they use . an instrument
called the tuning coil that vibrates in
harmony with an electrical wave or vi-
bration of a certain length. It is in
tune with that particular tune of wave
and consequently they are in harmony
and allow the vibration to go on to the
other receiving instrument unhindered.
Yet there may be other wireless vibra-
tions of a higher or lower "tune" or key
passing at the same time, yet only those
in harmony are registered by the re-
ceiver.
Now our minds are just about the
same way only we regulate our "tuning"
coil by our mind. We can tune our
minds to low-vibration thoughts such as
the animal-impulses of nature, or we can
"tune" them to thoughts of an educa-
tional or mental nature, or we can, after
472
Suggestion
some qualifications are met, "tune" our-
selves to receive· purely spiritual thought
vibrations. This power constitutes the
Divine power that is given to man. Of
course you will readily see that there
never was a primitive hut or modern
mansion built without the application
of this principle of directed constructive
thinking and visualization.
The backbone of salesmanship of all
kinds is the understanding and skillful
use of suggestion. When cleverly used
it tends to relax one's conscious atten-
tion and warm up and quicken the De-
sire, until a favorable response is gained.
Window displays and counter displays
as well as illustrated advertising all rely
on the power to drive a suggestion into
the very center of Desire, where it grows
to the point of action if in harmony with
the thought vibration of the Desire. If
473
'The ~w Psychology
the desire does not recognize or is not
in harmony with the suggestion it is as
"seed that has fallen upon stony ground,''
and is without harvest of action.
Thought and action do produce mate-
rial results as is easily verified in the
builder and his plans-the dressmaker
and her pattern, or the school and its
product, all in harmony with the lead-
ing constructive thought. The quality
of thought determines the measure of
success in life.
All truly wise thoughts have been thought
already thousands of times; but to make them
truly ours, we must think them over again hon-
estly, till they take root in our personal ex-
perience.
-Goethe.
474
