{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__haanel___the_new_psychology____v3.pdf","mytitle":"The New Psychology","mylang":"de"}
The New Psychology
VIBRATION
CAUSATION
EQUILIBRIUM
'J3y
(harles F. Haanel
VOLUME III
THE MASTER KEY INSTITUTE
597 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK, N. Y.
COPYRIGHT 1928
COPYRIGHT I 922
COPYRIGHT 1923
COPYRIGHT 1924
BY
CHARLES F. HAANEL
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THE U.S.A,
I 1
"2-fj -J;!"°
Vt. ' .:./~
~~~~~~~~~~~
THC: :J(§,117 PSrCHOLoqr
In Seven Volumes
VOLUME THREE
We may divide thinkers into those
who think for themselves and those
who think through others. The
latter are the rule, and the former
the exception. The first are origi-
nal thinkers in a double sense, and
egotists in the noblest meaning of
the word. It is from them only
that the world learns wisdom. For
only the light which we have kindled
in ourselves can illuminate others.
-SCHOPENHAUER.
(ontents: Volume Three
PAGE
Part Eight
V IBRATION . 193
Part Nine
CAUSATION 229
Part Ten
EQUILIBRIUM . 263
Vibration
Part eight
VIBRATION
B
EFORE any environment, har-
monious or otherwise, can be
created, action of some kind is
necessary, and before any action is pos-
sible, there must be thought of some
kind, either conscious or unconscious,
and as thought is a product of mind, it
becomes evident that Mind is the crea-
tive center from which all activities
proceed.
It is not expected that any of the in-
herent laws which govern the modern
business world as it is at present consti-
tuted can be suspended or repealed by
any force on the same plane, but it is
axiomatic that a higher law may over-
come a lower one. Tree life causes the
193
'Ihe ~w Psychology
sap to ascend, not by repealing the law
of gravity, but by surmounting it.
'I_'he naturalist who spends much of
his time in observing visible phenomena
is constantly creating power in that por-
tion of his brain set apart for observa-
tion. The result is that he becomes very
much more expert and skillful 'in know-
ing what he sees, and grasping an infi-
nite number of details at a glance, than
does his unobserving friend. He has
reached this facility by exercise of his
brain. He deliberately chose to enlarge
his brain power in the line of observa-
tion, so he deliberately exercised that
special faculty, over and over, with in-
creasing attention and concentration.
Now we have the result-a man learned
in the lore of observation far above his
fellow. Or, on the other hand, one can
by stolid inaction, allow the delicate
194
Vibration
brain matter to harden and ossify until
his whole life is barren and fruitless.
Every thought tends to become a ma-
terial thing. Our desires are seed
thoughts that have a tendency to sprout
and grow and blossom and bear fruit.
We are sowing these seeds every day.
What shall the harvest be? Each of us
today is the result of his past thinking.
Later we shall be the result of what we
are now thinking. We create our own
character, personality and environment
by the thought which we originate, or
entertain. Thought seeks its own. The
law of mental attraction is an exact
parallel to the law of atomic affinity.
Mental currents are as real as electric,
magnetic or heat currents. We attract
the currents with which we are in
harmony.
Lines of least resistance are formed by
195
'The J\&_,w Psychology
the constant action of the mind. The
activity of the brain reacts upon the
particular faculty of the brain employed.
The latent power of the mind is devel-
oped by constant exercise. Each form of
its activity becomes more perfect by
practice. Exercises for the development
of the mind present a variety of motives
for consideration. They involve the de-
velopment of the perceptive faculties,
the cultivation of the emotions, the
quickening of the imagination, the sym-
metrical unfoldment of the intuitive
faculty, which without being able to give
a reason frequently impels or prohibits
choice, and finally the power of mind
may be cultivated by the development
of the moral character.
"The greatest man," said Seneca, ;'is
he who chooses right with invincible de-
termination." The greatest power of
196
Vi"bratt'on
mind, then, depends upon its exercise
in moral channels, and therefore re-
quires that every conscious mental effort
should involve a moral end. A devel-
oped moral consciousness modifies con-
sideration of motives, and increases the
force and continuity of action; conse-
quently the well developed symmetrical
character necessitates good physical,
mental and moral health, and this com-
bination creates initiative, power, resist-
less force, and necessarily success.
It will be found that Nature is con-
stantly seeking to express Harmony in
all things, is forever trying to bring
about an harmonious adjustment, for
every discord, every wound, every diffi-
culty; therefore when thought is har-
monious, Nature begins to create the
material conditions, the possession of
197
'The ~w 'Psychology
which are necessary in order to make up
an harmonious environment.
When we understand that mind is the
great creative power, what does not be-
come possible? With Desire as the
great creative energy, can we not see
why Desire should be cultivated, con-
trolled and directed in our lives and
destinies? Men and women of strong
mentality who dominate those around
them, and often those far removed from
them, really emanate currents charged
with power which, coming in contact
with the minds of others, cause the de-
sires of the latter to be in accord with ·
the mind of the strong individuality.
Great masters of men possess this power
to a marked degree. Their influence is
felt far and near, and they secure com-
pliance with their wishes by making
others "want" to act in accord with
198
Vibration
them. In this way men of strong De-
sire and Imagination may and do exert
powerful influence over the minds of
others, leading the latter in the way
desired.
No man is ever created without the in-
herent power in himself to help him-
self. The personality that understands
its own intellectual and moral power of
conquest will assert itself. It is this
truth which an enfamined world craves
today. The possibility of asserting a
slumbering intellectual courage that
clearly discerns, and a moral courage
that grandly undertakes is open to all.
There is a divine potency in every hu-
man being.
We speak of the sun as "rising" and
"setting," though we know that this is
simply an appearance of motion. To
our senses the earth is apparently stand-
199
'The ~w 'Psychology
ing still, and yet we know it is revolving
rapidly. We speak of a bell as a
"sounding body,'' yet we know that all
that the bell can do is to produce vibra-
tions in the air. When these vibrations
come at the rate of sixteen a second they
cause a sound to be heard in the mind.
.It is possible for the mind to hear vi-
brations up to the rate of 38,000 a sec-
ond. When the number increases be-
yond this all is silence again; so that we
know that the sound is not in the bell;
it is in our own mind.
We speak and even think of the sun
as "giving light,'' yet we know it is
simply giving forth energy which pro-
duces vibrations in the ether at the rate
of four hundred trillion a second, caus-
ing what are termed light waves, so
that we know that what we call light is
simply a mode of motion, and the only
200
/
Vibration
light existent is the sensation caused in
the mind by the motion of these waves.
When the number of vibrations in-
creases, the light changes in color, each
change in color being caused by shorter
and more rapid vibrations; so that al-
though we speak of the rose as being
red, the grass as being green, or the sky
as being blue, we know that these colors
exist only in our minds, and are the
sensations experienced by us as the re-
sult of the vibrations of light. When
the vibrations are reduced below four
hundred trillion a second, they no longer
affect us as light, but we experience the
sensation of heat.
So we have come to know that appear-
ances exist for us only in our conscious-
ness. Even time and space become anni-
hilated, time being but the experience
of succession, there being no past or
201
'Ihe ~w Psychology
future except as a thought relation to
the present. In the last analysis, there-
fore, we know that one principle governs
and controls all existence. Every atom
is forever conserved; whatever is parted
with must inevitably be received some-
where. It cannot perish and it exists
only for use. It can go only where it is
attracted, and therefore required. We
can receive only what we give, and we
may give only to those who can receive;
and it remains with us to determine our
rate of growth and the degree of har-
mony that we shall express.
The laws under which we live are de-
signed solely for our advantage. These
laws are immutable and we cannot
escape from their operation. All the
great eternal forces act in solemn si-
lence, but it is within our power to place
ourselves in harmony with them and
202
Vibratt'on
thus express a life of comparative peace
and happiness.
Difficulties, inharmonies, obstacles, in-
dicate that we are either refusing to
give out what we no longer need, or re-
fusing to accept what we require.
Growth is attained through an exchange
of the old for the new, of the good for
the better; it is a conditional or recip-
rocal action, _
for each of us is a com-
plete thought entity and the complete-
ness makes it possible for us to receive
only as we give. We cannot obtain what
we lack if we tenaciously cling to what
we have.
The Principle of Attraction operates
to bring to us only what may be to our
advantage. We are able to consciously
control our conditions as we come to
sense the purpose of what we attract,
and are able to extract from each expe-
203
'Ihe :l\&_,w 'Psychology
nence only what we require for our
further growth. Our ability to do this
determines the degree of harmony or
happiness we attain.
The ability to appropriate what we re-
quire for our growth continually in-
creases as we reach higher planes and
broader visions, and the greater our abil-
ity to know what we require, the more
certain we shall be to discern its pres-
ence, to attract it and to absorb it.
Nothing may reach us except what is
necessary for our growth. All condi-
tions and experiences that come to us do
s~ for our benefit. Difficulties and ob-
stacles will continue to come until we
absorb their wisdom and gather from
them the essentials of further growth. ~
That we reap what we sow, is mathe-
matically exact. We gain permanent
strength exactly to the extent of the
204
Vibration
effort required to overcome our diffi-
culties.
The inexorable requirements of
growth demand that we exert the great-
est degree of attraction for what is per-
fectly in accord with us. Our highest
happiness will be best attained through
our understanding of and conscious co-
operation with natural laws._
· Our mind forces are often bound by
the paralyzing suggestions that come to
us from the crude thinking of the race,
and which are accepted and acted upon
without question. . Impressions of fear,
of worry, of disability and of inferior-
ity are given us daily. These are suffi-
cient reasons in themselves why men
achieve so little-why the lives of multi-
tudes are so barren of results, while all
the time there are possibilities within
them which need only the liberating
205
The :N:!_,w Psychology
touch of appreciation and wholesome
ambition to expand into real greatness.
Women, perhaps even more than men,
have been subject to these conditions.
This is true because of their finer sus-
ceptibilities, making them more open
to thought-vibrations from other minds,
and because the flood of negative and
repressive thoughts has been aimed more
especially at them.
But it is being overcome. Florence
Nightingale overcame it when she rose
in the Crimea to heights of tender sym-
pathy and executive ability previously
unknown among women. Clara Barton,
the head of the Red Cross, overcame it
when she wrought a similar work in the
armies of the Union. Jenny Lind over-
came it when she showed her ability to
command enormous financial rewards
while at the same time gratifying the
206
Vibration
passionate desire of her nature and
reaching the front rank of her day in
musical art. And there is a long list
of women singers, philanthropists,
writers and actresses who have proved
themselves capable of reaching the great-
est literary, dramatic, artistic and socio-
logical achievement.
Women as well as men are beginning
to do their own thinking. They have
awakened to some conception of their
possibilities. They demand that if life
holds any secrets, these shall be dis-
closed. At no previous time has the
influence and potency of thought re-
ceived such careful and discriminating
investigation. While a few seers have
grasped the great fact that mind is the
universal substance, the basis of all
things, never before has this vital truth
penetrated the more general consc10us-
207
'The :Nj_,w 'Psychology
ness. Many minds are now striving to
give this wonderful truth definite utter-
ance. Modern science has taught us
that light and sound are simply different
intensities of motion, and this has led to
discoveries of forces within man that
could not have been conceived of until
this revelation was made.
A new century has dawned, and now,
standing in its light man sees something
of the vastness of the meaning of life-
something of its grandeur. Within that
life is the germ of infinite potencies.
One feels convinced that man's possibil-
ity of attainment cannot be measured,
that boundary lines to his onward march
are unthinkable. Standing on this
height he finds that he can draw new
power to himself from the Infinite
energy of which he is a part.
Some men seem to attract success,
208
Vibration
power, wealth, attainment, with very
little conscious effort; others conquer
with great difficulty; still others fail al-
together to reach their ambitions, desires
and ideals. Why is this so? Why
should some men realize their ambitions
easily, others with difficulty, and still
others not at all? The cause cannot be
physical, else the most perfect men phys·
ically would be the most successful. The
difference, therefore, must be mental-
must be in the mind; hence mind must
be the creative force, must constitute the
sole difference between men. It is mind,
therefore, which overcomes environment
and every other obstacle in the path of
man.
When the creative power of thought
is fully understood, its effect will seem
to be marvelous. But such results can-
not be secured without proper applica-
209
'Ihe ~w Psychology
tion, diligence and concentration. The
laws governing in the mental and spirit-
ual world are as fixed and infallible as
in the material world. To secure the
desired results, then, it is necessary to
know the law and to comply with it. A
proper compliance with the law will be
found to produce the desired result with
invariable exactitude.
Scientists tell us that we live in the
universal ether. This is formless, of
itself, but it is pliable, and forms about
us, in us and around us, according to
our thought and word. We set it into
activity by that which we think. Then
that which manifests to us objectively is
that which we have thought or said.
Thought is governed by law. The
reason we have not manifested more
faith is because of lack of understand-
ing. We have not understood that every-
210
Vibration
thing works in exact accordance with
definite law. The law of thought is as
definite as the law of mathematics, or
the law of electricity, or the law of
gravitation. When we begin to under-
stand that happiness, health, success,
prosperity and every other condition or
environment are results, and that these
results are created by thinking, either
consciously
realize the
knowledge
thought.
or unconsciously, we shall
importance of a working
of the laws governmg
Those coming into a conscious reali-
zation of the power of thought find
themselves in possession of the best that
life can give; substantial things of a
higher order become theirs, and these
sublime realities are so constituted that
they can be made tangible parts of daily
personal life. They realize a world of
2II
'The J\{j_,w Psychology
higher power, and keep that power
constantly working. This power is in-
exhaustible, limitless, and they are
therefore carried forward from victory
to victory. Obstacles that seem insur-
mountable are overcome. Enemies are
changed to friends, conditions are over-
come, elements transformed, fate is con-
quered.
The supply is inexhaustible, and the
demand can be made along whatever
lines we may desire. This is the mental
law of demand and supply.
Our circumstances and environment
are formed by our thoughts. We have,
perhaps, been creating these conditiOns
unconsciously. If they are unsatisfac-
tory the remedy is to consciously alter
our mental attitude and see our cir-
cumstances adjust themselves to the new
mental condition. There is nothing
212
Vibration
strange or supernatural about this; 1t 1s
simply the Law of Being. The thoughts
which take root in the mind will cer-
tainly produce fruit after their kind.
The greatest schemer cannot "gather
grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles." To
improve our conditions we must first im-
prove ourselves. Our thoughts and de-
sires will be the first to show improve-
ment.
To be in ignorance of the laws of
Vibration is to be like a child playing
with fire, or a man manipulating power-
ful chemicals without a knowledge of
their nature and relations. This is uni-
versally true because Mind is the one
great cause which produces all condi-
tions in the lives of men and women.
Of course, mind creates negative con-
ditions just as readily as favorable con-
ditions, and when we consciously or un-
213
'Ihe ~w 'Psychology
consciously visualize every kind of lack,
limitation and discord, we create these
conditions; this is what many are uncon-
sciously doing all the time.
This law as well as every other law is
no respecter of persons, but is in con-
stant operation and is relentlessly bring-
ing to each individual exactly what he
has created; in other words, "Whatso-
ever a man soweth, that shall he also
reap."
Arthur Brisbane says, "Thought and
its work include all the achievements
of man."
Compare spirit and thought to the
gemus of the musician and the sound
which issues from the musical instru-
ment.
What the instrument is to the musi-
cian the brain of the man is to the
spirit that inspires thought.
214
Vibration
However great the musician, the gen-
ius must depend for its expression upon
the instrument which gives it reality in
the physical world, through sound waves
produced in the material atmosphere,
striking nerves that carry music to the
brain.
Give Paderewski a piano out of tune
and he can give you only discord and
lack of harmony. Or give to Paganini,
the greatest violinist that ever lived, a
violin out of tune, and in spite of the
genius of the musician you will hear
only hideous, disagreeable sounds. The
spirit of music must have the right in-
struments for its expression.
The spirit that inspires thought, the
spirit of man, must have the right brain
for its expression.
The more complicated and highly de-
veloped the instrument, the more dis-
215
The :N!..,w 'Psychology
pleasing to the ear is the result when the
instrument is out of tune.
Among human beings a highly devel-
oped brain out of tune-is infinitely
more painful and shocking than in the
case of a human being with a mind in
comparison feeble and simple.
Our minds are so little accustomed
to deal with the abstract, we live so
much in the material world, inanimate
objects have so much meaning for us
that many human beings live and die
without ever thinking at all of the spirit,
yet the spirit is the only real thing in the
universe.
And thought is the expression of
spirit, working through a more or less
imperfect human brain.
Bring yourself to think for some time
earnestly of the nature and mysterious
216
Vibration
power of spirit. There is no thought
more inspiring, fascinating, bewildering.
Consider the Falls of Niagara, with
their tremendous power, the vast moving
machinery, the cities that are lighted,
the blazing streets, the moving cars, all
due apparently to the power in Niagara.
Yet not due to that power in reality so
much as to the spirit expressed in the
thought of man. It was spirit that
harnessed Niagara. It was spirit trans-
ferred the power of the Falls to distant
cities.
Yet that spirit has neither shape nor
weight, size nor color, taste' nor smell.
You ask a man "What is the Spirit?"
and he must answer that it is nothing,
since it occupies no space, and cannot
be seen or felt. And yet he must answer
also that the spirit is everything. The
world only exists as it is because we see
217
'The :JV!.,w Psychology
it in the eyes of the spirit. The optic
nerve takes a picture, sends it to the
brain and the spirit sees the picture.
It was the spirit acting on the brain
of Columbus, and through him upon
others, that brought the first ship to
America.
It is the spirit working and expressing
itself through the thought of brains more
and more highly developed that has
gradually brought man from his former
condition of savagery to his present com-
parative degree of civilization. And
that same spirit, working in future ages
through brains infinitely superior to any
that we can now conceive, will establish
real harmony on this planet.
Yet you know that spirit exists, and
that it is you, and that except for that
spirit which animates you, picks you up
when you fall, inspires you in success
218
Vibration
and comforts you in failure and mis-
fortune, there would be nothing at all
in this life, and you would not be differ-
ent from one of the stones in the field,
or some of the dummies that the tailor
sets in front of his store.
Compare the spirit and the material
world as you see it with the genius that
dwells in the brain of the great painter
and the works which the painter has to
do.
Every statue, painting and church
that Michael Angelo created already ex-
isted in his spirit. But the spirit could
not be content with that existence. It
had to visualize itself; it had to see itself
created.
The spirit really lives completely only
when it sees itself reflected in the mate-
rial world. All the mother love is m
the spirit of woman. But it has com-
219
'The ~w 'Psychology
plete existence only when the mother
holds the child in her arms and sees in
reality, in flesh and blood, the being that
she loves and has created.
The achievements of the greatest men
are all locked up within them from the
first, but the spirit of such men can
reach full realization only when the
spirit, acting through the brain and
expressing itself through thought, cre-
ates the work.
We know that all useful work is the
result of sound thought. If we realize
that thought itself is the expression of
the spirit, we are moved by a sense of
duty to give to that spirit the best pos-
sible expression of which we are capa-
ble, the best chance that it can have,
dwelling in imperfect bodies and speak-
ing through imperfect minds such as
those we possess.
220
Vibration
It is an inspiration to realize that men
here on earth, gradually improving, be-
coming less animal and more spiritual as
the centuries pass, are destined to de-
velop in their own physical bodies in-
struments capable of interpreting prop-
erly the spirit that animates us.
Human beings improve from genera-
tion to generation-that we know. The
improvement is due to the affection of
fathers and mothers for each other and
for their children.
This race of ours one hundred thou-
sand years ago was made up of animal-
like creatures, with huge, projecting
jaws, enormous teeth, small foreheads
and hideously shaped bodies. Gradually
through the centuries we have changed,
the brute has gradually disappeared, the
prognathous face of man has become
fatter. The jaw has gone in, the fore-
221
'The ~w P_sychology
head has come out, and behind the fore-
head, gradually, thanks to the devotion
and patient labor of women, we are
developing a brain that will ultimately
give decent and adequate expression to
spirit.
Spirit and thought are identical in the
sense that the genius of the musician
and the sound that you hear when his
music is played are identical. In music
the sound represents and interprets the
musician's spirit. And the interpreta-
tion and the accuracy of that interpre-
tation depend upon the orchestra, the
violin or the piano. When the instru-
ments are out of tune it is not the genius
of the musician but a misinterpretation
that you hear.
And with our human brains, most of
them out of tune, most of them incapa-
ble of expressing anything but the
222
· Vibration
merest, faintest reflection of true spirit-
ual life, there is as yet very little har-
mony.
Through the perfected brain of man,
the cosmic spirit, in which each of us is
a conscious atom, will speak clearly, and
then this earth, our little corner in the
universe, will be truly harm~nious, gov-
erned by the spirit distinctly expressed
and instantly obeyed.
This cosmic spirit can, and frequently
does, operate through the brain of an-
other. Many a man seems to be doing
something very wonderful when in real-
ity another man-another mind, not vis-
ible in the work, but actually at the work
-does the heavy pulling.
You may see the salesman, the editor,
the floor walker, the engineer, the archi-
tect-any kind of a man engaged in any
223
'Ihe ~w Psychology
kind of work-apparently doing some-
thing wonderful.
Yet he is not doing it all. An unseen
power-another man, another brain, per-
haps some little man with a small body
and a big head, who keeps out of sight
-is doing the work.
Every one of us without exception is
pulled along or pushed ahead by some
force unseen. It may be the man in the
inside office, usually invisible. It may
be the woman at home setting a good ex-
ample, giving to the man at work the in-
spiration and the power that no one else
could give. It may be paternal affec-
tion, enabling a man to do for a child
what he could not possibly do for him-
self.
Very often the power is one that has
long disappeared from the earth, a
father or a mother whose energy and
224
Vibration
inspiration persists and does in the life
of the son at work what the man could
never have accomplished of his own
accord.
Cause and effect is as absolute and undeviating
in the hidden realm of thought as in the world
of visible and material things. Mind is the
master weaver, both of the inner garment of
character and the outer garment of circumstance.
-James Allen.
225
Causation
Part J\(j_,ne
CAUSATION
U
N I V E R S A L intelligence
leaves its source to become
embodied in material forms
through which it returns to its source.
Mineral life animated by electro-mag-
netism is the first step of intelligence up-
ward, toward its universal source. Uni-
versal energy is intelligent, and this
involuntary process by which matter is
built up, is an intelligent process of na-
ture which has for its specific purpose
the individualization of her intelligence.
Stockwell says: "The basis of life and
consciousness lies back of the atoms,
and may be found in the universal
ether." Hemstreet says: "Mind in the
ether is no more unnatural than mind in
flesh and blood." Stockwell says: "The
229
'The ~w 'Psychology
ether is coming to be apprehended as an
immaterial superphysical substance, fill-
ing all space, carrying in its infinite,
throbbing bosom the specks of aggre-
gated dynamic force called worlds. It
embodies the ultimate spiritual prin-
ciple, and represents the unity of those
forces and energies from which spring,
as their source, all phenomena, physical,
mental, and spiritual, as they are known
to man." Dolbear, in his great work
on the ether, says: "Besides the function
of energy and motion, the ether has
other inherent properties, out of which
could emerge, under proper circum-
stances, other phenomena, such as life
or mind or whatever may be in the sub-
stratum."
The microscopic cell, a minute speck
of matter that is to become man, has in
it the promise and germ of mind. May
230
Causation
we not draw the inference that the ele-
ments of mind are present in those chem-
ical elements-carbon, oxygen, hydro-
gen, nitrogen, sulphur, phosphorus,
sodium, potassium, chlorine-that are
found in the cell? Not only must we do
so, but we must go further, since we
know that each of these elements, and
every other, is built up of one invariable
unit, the electron, and we must therefore
assert that mind is potential in the unit
of matter-the electron itself.
Atoms of mineral matter are attracted
to each other to form aggregates or
masses. This attraction is called Chemi-
cal Affinity. Chemical combinations of
atoms are due to their magnetic rela-
tions to each other. Positive atoms will
always attract negative atoms. The
combination will last only so long as a
231
'The ~w Psychology
still more positive force is not brought
to bear on it to break it apart.
Two or more atoms brought into
combination form a molecule, which is
defined as "the smallest particle of a
substance that can maintain its own
identity." Thus a molecule of water is
a combination of two atoms of hydrogen
and one atom of oxygen (H20).
In building a plant, nature works with
colloid cells rather than with atoms, for
she has built up the cell as an entity just
as she built the atom and the molecule
as entities with which to work in min-
eral substance. The vegetable cell
(colloid), has power to draw to itself
from earth, air, and water whatever
energies it needs for its growth. It
therefore draws from mineral life and
dominates it.
When vegetable matter is sufficiently
232
Causation
refined to be receptive to still more of
the universal intelligent energy, animal
life appears. The plant cells have now
become so plastic that they have addi-
tional capacities-those of individual
consciousness, and also additional pow-
ers; those of sensational magnetism.
It draws its life forces from both min-
eral and plant life, and therefore domi-
nates them.
The body is an aggregate of cells ani-
mated by the spiritual magnetic life
that tends toward organizing these cells
into communities, and these communities
into co-ordinated bodies which will
operate the entire mass of the body as a
conscious entity able to carry itself from
one place to the other.
Atoms and molecules and their en-
ergies are now subordinated to the wel-
fare of the cell. Each cell is a living,
233
The ~w Psychology
conscious entity, capable of selecting its
own food, of resisting aggression, and
of reproducing itself.
As each cell has its individual con-
sciousness, intuition, and volition, so
each federated group of cells has a col-
lective individual consciousness, intui-
tion, and volition. Likewise, each co-
ordinated group of federations; until the
entire body has one central brain where
the great co-ordination of all the
"brains" takes place.
The body of an average human being
is composed of some twenty-six trillions
(26,000,ooo,ooo,ooo) of cells; the brain
and the spinal cord by themselves con-
sist of some two billion.
The biogenic law proves that every
vertebrate, like every other animal,
evolves from a single cell. Even the
human orgamsm, according to Haeckel,
234
(ausation
is at first a simple nucleated globule of
plasm, about r.125 inch in diameter,
barely visible to the naked eye as a tiny
point. The ovum transmits to the child
by heredity the personal traits of the
mother, the sperm-cell those of the
father; and this hereditary transmission
extends to the finest characteristics of
the soul as well as the body. What is
plasm? What is this mysterious living
substance that we find everywhere as the
material foundation of the wonders of
life? Plasm or protoplasm, is, as Hux-
ley rightly said, the physical basis of or-
ganic life; to speak more precisely, it is
a chemical compound of carbon that
alone accomplishes the various processes
of life. In its simplest form the living
cell is merely a soft globule of plasm,
containing a firmer nucleus. As soon as
it is fertilized, it multiplies by division
235
'The ~w Psychology
and forms a community or colony of
many special cells.
These differentiate themselves, and by
their specialization, or modifications, the
tissues which compose the various organs
are developed. The developed, many-
celled organisms of man and all higher
animals resemble a social, civil com-
munity, the numerous single individuals
of which are developed in various ways,
but were originally only simple cells of
one common structure.
All life on this earth, as Dr. Butler
points out in "How the Mind Cures,"
began in the form of a cell which con-
sisted of a body animated by a mind.
In the beginning and long afterward the
animating mind was the one we now
call the subconscious. But as the forms
grew in complexity and produced organs
of sense, the mind threw out an addition,
236
(ausation
... forming another part, the one we
now call the conscious. While at first
all living creatures had but one guide -
that they must follow in all things, this
later addition to mind gave the creature
a choice. This was the formation of
what has been termed Free Will.
Each cell is endowed with an indi-
vidual intelligence, that helps it carry
on, as by a miracle, its complex labours.
The cell is the basis of man, and this fact
must be constantly borne in mind in
dealing with the wonders of mental
chemistry.
As a nation is made up of a large
number of living individuals, so the
body is made up of a large number of
living cells. The citizens of a country
are engaged in varied pursuits-some
in the work of production, in field, for-
est, mine, factory; some in the work of
237
'Ihe :lX!_,w Psychology
distribution, in transportation, in ware-
house, store, or bank; some in the work
of regulation, in legislative halls, on the
bench, in the executive chair; some in
the work of protection-soldiers, sailors,
doctors, teachers, preachers. Likewise
in the body some cells are working on
production: mouth, stomach, intestines,
lungs, supplying food, water, air; some
are engaged in distribution of supplies
and elimination of wastes: heart, blood,
lymph, lungs, liver, kidneys, skin; some
perform the office of regulation: brain,
spinal cord, nerves; some are occupied
in protection: white blood corpuscles,
skin, bone, muscle; there are also cells
to which are entrusted the reproduction
of species.
As the vigour and welfare of a nation
depend fundamentally on the vitality
and efficiency and co-operation of its
238
Causation
citizens, so the health and life of the
body depend upon the vitality, efficiency
and co-operation of its myriad cells.
We have seen that the cells are gath-
ered into systems and groups for the
performance of particular functions es-
sential to physical life and expression,
such as we see in organs and tissues.
So long as the several parts all act to-
gether in concord and with due regard
to one another and the general purposes
of the organism, there is health and ef-
ficiency. But when from any cause dis-
cord arises, illness supervenes. Disease
is lack of comfort and harmony.
In the brain and nervous system the
cells are grouped in their action accord-
ing to the particular functions which
they are called upon to perform. It is in
this way that we are able to see, to taste,
to smell, to feel, and to hear. It is also
239
'The ~w 'Psychology
m this way we are able to recall past
experiences, to remember facts and
figures, and so on.
In mental and physical health these
various groups of neurons work in fine
harmony, but in dis-ease they do not.
In normal conditions the ego holds all
these individual cells and groups, as well
as systems of cells, in harmonious and
co-ordinate action.
Disease represents dissociated organic
action; certain systems or groups, each
of which is made up of a vast number of
microscopic cells, begin functioning in-
dependently, and hence inharmoniously;
and thus upset the tone of the whole
organism. A single organ or system can
_ thus get out of tune with the rest of the
body and do serious harm. This is one
kind of disease.
In a federation of any sort, efficiency
240
Causation
and concord of action depend upon the
strength and confidence accorded the
central administration of its affairs; and
just in proportion to the degree of fail-
ure to maintain these conditions are dis-
cord and confusion sure to ensue.
Nels Quevli makes this clear in "Cell
Intelligence." He says, "The intelli-
gence of man is the intelligence possessed
by the cells in his brain." If man is in-
telligent and by virtue thereof is able
to combine and arrange matter and force
so as to effect structures, such as houses
and railroads, why is not the cell also
intelligent when he is able to direct the
forces of nature so as to effect the struc-
tures we see such as plants and animals?
The cell is not compelled to act by rea-
son of any chemical and mechanical
force, any more than is man. He acts
by reason of will and judgment of his
241
:fhe ~w Psychology
own. He is a separate living animal.
Bergson in his "Creative Evolution"
seems to see in matter and life a creative
energy. If we stood at a distance watch-
ing a skyscraper gradually grow into
completeness, we would say there must
be some creative energy back of it, push-
ing the construction and, if we could
never get near enough to see the men
and builders at work, we could have no
other idea of how that skyscraper came
into existence except that it was caused
by some creative energy.
The cell is an animal, very highly or-
ganized and specialized. Take the
single cell called amceba for instance.
He has no machinery with which he
can manufacture starch. He does, how-
ever, carry with him building material
with which he can in an emergency save
his life by covering himself with a coat
242
Causation
of armor. Other cells carry with them
a structure which is called chromato-
phore. With this instrument, these cells
are able to manufacture starch from the
crude substances of earth, air and water
by the aid of sunlight. From these facts,
it must appear evident to the reader that
the cell is a very highly organized and
specialized individual, and that to look
at him from the point of view of being
mere matter and force is the same as to
compare the actions of a stone rolling
down a hill with that of an automobile
moving over a smooth pavement. One
is compelled to move by reason of the
force of gravitation, while the other
moves by virtue of the intellect that
guides it. The structures of life, like
plants and animals, are built from the
materials taken from the earth, air, and
water, just as are the structures man
243
'The ~w Psychology
builds, like railroads and skyscrapers.
If we were asked how it is possible for
man to effect the construction of these
railroads and buildings, we would say
that it is by reason of the fact that he is
an intelligent being.
If the cell has gone through the same
process of social organization and evolu-
tion as man, why is it not also the same
intelligent being as man? Did you ever
stop to think what takes place when the
surface of the body is cut or bruised?
The white blood cells or corpuscles, as
they are called, who are the general
caretakers of the body, whose duty it is
to look after everything in general, such
as the fighting of bacteria and disease
germs and the general repair work, will
sacrifice their own lives by thousands
if necessary to save the body. They live
in the body, en1oymg complete liberty.
244
Causation
They do not float in the blood stream ex-
cept when in a hurry to get somewhere,
but move around everywhere as sepa-
rate independent beings to see that every-
thing goes right. If a bruise or cut hap-
pens, they are at once informed, and
rush to the spot by thousands and direct
the repair work and if necessary they
change their own occupation and take a
different job, that of making connective
tissue in order to bind the tissues to-
gether. In nearly every open sore,
bruise or cut, they are killed in great
numbers in their faithful effort to re-
pair and close up the wound. A text
book on physiology briefly speaks of it
as follows:
"When the skin is injured the white
blood cells form new tissue upon the sur-
face, while the epithelium spreads over
245
'Ihe ~w Psychology
it from the edges, stopping the growth
and completing the healing processes."
There seems to be no particular center
in the body around which intelligence
revolves. Every cell seems to be a center
of intelligence and knows what its duties
are wherever it is placed and wherever
we find it. Every citizen of the cell
republic is an intelligent independent
existence, and all are working together
for the welfare of all. Nowhere can we
find more absolute sacrifice of the lives
of the individuals to the general wel-
fare of all than we do in the cell repub-
lic. The results cannot be obtained in
any other way nor at any less cost ·of
individual sacrifice, so it is necessary to
their social existence. The principle of
individual sacrifice to common welfare
has been accepted and agreed upon as
the right thing and as their common
246
(ausation
duty, impartially distributed among
them, and they perform their allotted
work and duties regardless of their own
individual comfort.
Mr. Edison says, "I believe that our
bodies are made up of myriads of units
of life. Our body is not itself the unit
of life or a unit of life. Let me give
you as an example the S. S. Mauretania.
"The 'Mauretania' is not herself a liv-
ing thing-it is the men in her that are
alive. If she is wrecked on the coast, for
instance, the men get out, and when the
men get out it simply means that the
'life units' leave the ship. And so in the
same way a man is not 'dead' because his
body is buried and the vital principle,
that is, the 'life units,' have left the
body.
"Everything that pertains to life is
still living and cannot be destroyed.
247
'Ihe :N:!_,w 'Psychology
Everything that pertains to li-fe is still
subject to the laws of animal life. We
have myriads of cells and it is the in-
habitants m these cells, inhabitants
which themselves are beyond the limits
of the microscope, which vitalize our
body.
"To put it in another way, I believe
that these life-units of which I have
spoken band themselves together in
countless millions and billions in order
to make a man. We have too facilely
assumed that each one of us is himself a
unit. This, I am convinced is wrong,
even by. the high-powered microscope,
and so we have assumed that the unit
is the man, which we can see, and have
ignored the existence of the real life
units, which are those we cannot see.
"No man today can set the line as to
where 'life' begins and ends. Even in
248
Causation
the formation of crystals, we see a defi-
nitely ordered plan of work. Certain
solutions will always form a particular
kind of crystal without variation. It is
not impossible that these life entities are
at work in the mineral and plant as in
what we call the 'animal' world."
The idea is prevalent that both light
and heat come all the way from the sun,
a distance of 9310001000 miles. If this
were true, all space would be flooded
with light, and no star would ever be
visible, for stars are not visible in the
light .
The sun is a great dynamo 866,ooo
miles in diameter. It turns on its axis
like the planets, it sends electro-magnetic
currents throughout all solar space,
which is something like six billion miles
from end to end, and is but one of thou-
sands of similar systems of suns and
249
The ~w 'Psychology
planets, many of them much greater, and
all of them moving forward in space and
all moving around one common center.
It is clear, then, that instead of giving
light and heat the sun gives forth elec-
trical energy only. This energy con-
tacts with the atmosphere of the earth
in the form of rays. As the earth is re-
volving at the incredible speed of more
than a thousand miles an hour at its
circumference, the atmosphere coming
in contact with the electric rays of the
sun causes friction, which produces both
light and heat.
As the earth revolves at a constantly
decreasing speed as we reach the poles,
the friction becomes less and less, and so
we find less light and less heat as the
poles are reached, until at the poles there
is little light or heat. What we know
as light, therefore, appears only in the
250
Causation
atmosphere, and not outside of it, and
only in that part of the atmosphere
which is turned toward the sun.
We know that as we ascend from the
earth, the atmosphere becomes more
rare, and there is consequently less fric-
tion, and therefore less light and less
heat.
As the direct rays of electric energy
from the sun reach only that part of the
earth which is turned toward the sun,
light appears only on that side. The
other side of the earth being turned
away from the sun there is no friction
and consequently no light, · but as the
earth turns upon its axis at the tremen-
dous velocity of something like one thou-
sand miles an hour, the atmosphere grad-
ually comes in contact with the electrical
rays from the sun and light gradually
appears. The more perpendicular the
251
'Ihe :JXt.,w 'Psychology
rays strike the earth the stronger the
friction, the brighter the light and the
greater the heat. This solar phenomena
we call morning, noon and night.
This solar fluid is the ethereal atmos-
phere, or the ether, and is limited to
the solar system; it is the medium for
the transmission of the potencies origi-
nating in the various planets, and holds
in solution the basic elements of all life
and thought.
This ether is the only possible fluid
which is sufficiently subtle to carry the
delicate vibrations which are constantly
being broadcasted over the radio, and
which penetrate iron, wood, steel and
every other barrier, and which are not
limited by either time or space.
Each planet is also an electro vital dy-
namo, but the nature of the vibrations
which they send depends upon the par-
252
Causation
ticular nature of that planet, as well as
its ever changing position in the zodiac.
These emanations are constantly being
impressed upon all the worlds of our sys-
tem by the perfect conductivity of the
solar ether.
The sun is not only the source of elec-
trical energy by which light and heat
are developed, but it is the source of
life itself. No life of any kind could
exist on this planet without the energiz-
ing and vitalizing magnetism derived
from the sun. As the earth approaches
the sun in spring we see the result in
the myriad of plants and flowers and the
verdure with which the fields are cov-
ered; the life-giving force becomes
everywhere apparent.
The effect of this influence is seen in
the temperament of the people inhabit-
ing the globe, when the perpendicular
253
'The :A(ew 'Psychology
rays reach the people we find a cheerful,
optimistic "sunny" disposition, but as we
reach the far north, where the absence
of light and heat make life a struggle,
we find the people correspondingly dark
and gloomy.
Thus, we find that not only the sun,
but Venus, Mars, Saturn, the moon and
all of the other planets radiate their
own peculiar characteristics. This influ-
ence in turn is reflected in the character
of those who come under the influence
of these vibrations.
As the nature of the energy which the
sun radiates is in accordance with its in-
trinsic nature, so the nature of the vibra-
tions sent out by the planets is in accord-
ance with their intrinsic natures.
Venus has long been regarded as the
Goddess of Love, consequently the char-
acteristics of those coming under her
254
Causation
influence are affectionate, sympathetic,
refined and contented. Mars has long
been known as the God of War, and his
influence is therefore courageous, ven-
turesome, aggressive and fearless; the
influence of the moon is reflective, recep-
tive and productive; of Mercury, in-
tellectual, accomplished, skillful and
clever; of Jupiter, generous, philan-
thropic, moral, charitable and sincere;
of Saturn, prudent, cautious, patient and
reserved; of Uranus, original, ingenious,
talented and intuitive; of Neptune,
idealistic, mystical, inspirational and
peculiar.
As we all come under the influence of
each of these planets to some extent, we
all manifest many of these characteristics
to some degree.
In addition to the influence of particu-
255
'The :JX!.,w Psychology
lar planets there is the influence of the
various combinations of planets. These
are usually divided into Cardinal, Fixed
and Common signs.
The influence of the cardinal sign is
to stir the latent forces into action, pro-
mote change and create initiative.
The influence of the fixed sign is for
stability. The individual may be slow
and plodding, but he will be persistent;
he will know no defeat; he will concen-
trate upon one point and pursue it to the
end; his zeal will be almost fanatical.
The influence of the common sign is
flexibility and change. This influence is
purely mental or spiritual and gives pur-
pose and incentive to action.
The cardinal type therefore is active,
the common restless, and the fixed is
rigid. As material success depends upon
action, the important factors in the
256
Causation
world's work are derived from this type.
As stability is a necessary factor in im-
portant industrial undertakings the fixed
type frequently share the material and
financial success with the cardinal type.
The common type is, however, adverse
to effort; they want adventure, change,
travel; they are therefore the promoters,
who bring manufacturer and inventor
together; they are the venders and mid-
dlemen and the agents who negotiate
between buyer and seller.
They are also the sensitives, and react
more keenly to the experiences of life;
they carry the heavier burden because
they feel more. They participate in the
issues of life to a greater degree because
they carry not only their own burden,
but the burdens of those around them.
The greater possibilities of inner unfold-
ment, understanding and development
257
'Ihe ~w Psychology
are always with the sensitive. The sensi-
tive uses not only reason, but imagina-
tion, vision, intuition and insight.
The fixed types are usually the mate-
rialists who are content with objective
possessions and attainments. They use
their reason and are interested in that
only which can be measured or which
can be seen, felt and handled. They are
the doers rather than the dreamers and
are utterly stable; they fill many respon-
sible positions with great success and are
valuable members of society.
Neither type is superior, they are sim-
ply different, both are necessary.
Each planet has its own rate of vibra-
tion and its influence upon t~e earth de-
pends upon the angle which it forms,
certain angles causing the vibrations to
be accelerated or diminished, magnified
or retarded.
Causation
These angles of planetary influences
have been found to produce effects just
as certain and definite as the various
angles in Chemistry.
Thus the seven planets give the seven
rays or vibrations or tunes, and the earth
is the organ upon which these notes are
played, and the ha_
rmony or inharmony
resulting therefrom is the influence
which we call good or evil, as the effect
is pleasing or the reverse.
It is the operation of these seemingly
different influences which gave the
Romans the idea of dualism or a Uni-
verse with two forces in it, one good,
the other evil, and which they subse-
quently personalized and called God and
Satan, resulting in much confusion of
thought.
We now know, however, that there is
259
'The :A{j_,w 'Psychology
but one Universal power, and that the
operation of this power is perfect, this
power manifests in infinite diversity,
form disappears and new form appears,
but it is One Infinite Cosmic Substance,
and this substance is but the manifesta-
tion of one Cosmic Principle.
This then, is the laboratory in which
Nature is forever combining the spirit-
ual forces which result in the infinite
diversity on every side, for all are "parts
of one stupendous whole."
There are those who seem to think that by
force of Will they can coerce the law. That
they can sow seed of one kind and by "Will
Power" make it bear fruit of another, but the
idea of forcing a compliance with our wishes by
the power of the individual will is an inverted
conception, which may appear to succeed for a
while, but is eventually doomed to failure, be-
cause it antagonizes the very power which it is
seeking to use.
equilibrium
Part Ten
EQUILIBRIUM
N
ATURE is forever trying to
bring about an equilibrium, .
and in accordance with this
law, we find constant action and reaction.
The concentration of Matter implies
the dissipation of Motion-conversely
-the absorption of Motion implies the
diffusion of Matter.
This accounts for the entire cycle of
changes· passed through by every exist-
ence. Moreover, it applies to the entire
cycle of each existence, as well as to each
detail of its history. Both processes are
going on at every instant; but always
there is a differential result in favor of
one or the other. And every change,
even though it be only a transposition of
263
'Ihe ~w Psychology
parts, inevitably advances one of the
factors.
The law of attraction eventually re-
sults in an equilibrium, the quantity of
motion implied by dispersion must be as
great as the quantity of motion implied
by aggregation, or rather must be the
same motion, taking now the molar form
and now the molecular form; and from
this result there arises the conception
not only of local evolutions and dissolu-
tions throughout our Sidereal System
but of general evolutions and dissolu-
tions alternating indefinitely.
Giordano Bruno was burned alive m
Rome in 1600 for giving expression to
the following thought:
"That which was seed at first, becomes
grass, then the ear, then bread, nutritive
.juice, blood, animal, seed, embryo, man,
corpse, then again earth, stone, or other
264
equi'librt"um
mineral, and so forth. Herein we recog-
nize therefore a thing which changes
into all these things and essentially re-
mains ever one and the same."
This eternal and ceaseless ebb and
flow of minute particles, changeless in
themselves, has been called the food
cycle. It is enough to remark of the
changes and cycles through which mat-
ter passes in the Universe, and which
man has partly followed by balance and
measuring-rod, that they are without end
and limit.
Dissolution and generation, destruc-
tion and reformation clasp hands every-
where in an endless circle. In the bread
that we eat, in the air that we breathe,
we draw in the matter that once built up
the bodies of our forefathers; nay, we
ourselves give every day a portion of the
matter forming our bodies to the outside
265
The :Aflw 'Psychology
world and shortly after we retake this
substance or matter similarly given off
by our neighbors.
Of the conquerors on the battlefield
we can literally say that they take ad-
vantage of their success by literally eat-
ing their enemies as daily bread, for the
bones from the battlefields are often
carted off in great quantities and con-
verted into fertilizer.
All energy on this earth, organic or
inorganic, is directly or indirectly de-
rived from the sun. The flowing water,
the driving wind, the passing clouds,
the rolling thunder and the flashing
lightning, the falling rain, snow, dew,
frost, or hail, the growth of plants, the
warmth and motion of animal and hu-
man bodies, the combustion of wood, of
coal, etc., is the result of solar energy.
266
equilibrium
Through the process of combustion
the total amount of the vanished sun-
shine laid up in wood or coal may again
be evolved. The force which urges for-
ward the locomotive is simply sunshine
converted into power.
In 1857, Mr. Murray of London pub-
lished a biography of the famous Eng-
lish engineer, George Stephenson, in
which an interesting description of the
light and heat cycle is given: "On Sun-
day, just when the company had re-
turned from church and were standing
on the terrace overlooking the railway
station, a train rushed by, leaving a
long line of white steam behind.
"Now," said Stephenson to Buckland,
the well known geologist, "can you tell
me what power moves that train?"
"Why," replied the other, "I suppose it
is one of your big engines." "But what
267
The ~w Psychology
moves the engine?" "Oh, probably one
of your stout Newcastle engine-drivers."
"What do you say to the light of the
sun?" "What do you mean?" "Nothing
else moves the engine," said the great
engineer; "it is light which for thou-
sands of years has accumulated in the
earth-light which was inhaled by
plants, that these during the time of their
growth might fix the carbon, and which
now, after having for thousands of years
been buried in the coal beds of the earth,
is again brought forth and set free to
serve the great purposes of mankind, as
here in this engine."
The same energy of the sun takes up
the water from the ocean in the form of
vapor. Water would ever remain in
perfect equilibrium if it were not for
the action of the sun. The rays of the
sun falling upon the ocean convert the
268
equilibrium
water into vapor, and this vapor is taken
up into the atmosphere in the form of
mist. The wind gathers it together in
the form of clouds and takes it across
the continent. Here through changes of
temperature it is again converted into
ram or snow.
Let anyone study the wonderful and
beautiful forms of snowflakes or snow-
stars falling to the ground on a cold
winter's day, and he can convince him-
self that one day the forms are quite
different from those of the day before or
of the day after, although the conditions
may differ but in the very smallest
degree.
Nevertheless this minute difference
has sufficed to evolve these very differ-
ent forms; it shows that, as Cams Sterne
says, "each of these fugitive forms is
the exact expression of a special com-
269
'The ~w Psychology
plex relation between the moisture, mo-
tion, pressure, temperature, rarity, elec-
trical tension and chemical composition
of the air that prevailed during their
formation.
"With a many-sidedness of ideas,
which anyone engaged in the drawing
of patterns and designs for fabrics might
envy, the intrinsic faculties of the sim-
plest and most indifferent compounds we
know of show themselves thus in oppo-
sition to the moulding influences of the
outer world."
The action of the sun again converts
the snow into water and through the law
of gravitation it descends from the
mountains to the various rivers by which
it eventually reaches the parent ocean
from which it came.
These cycles are all governed by a
law of periodicity. Everything has pe-
270
C:quzlibrium
riods of birth, growth, fruitage and de-
cline. These periods are governed by
the Septimal Law.
The Law of Sevens governs the days
of the weeks, the phases of the moon,
the harmonies of sound, light, heat, elec-
tricity, magnetism, atomic structure. It
governs the life of individuals and of
nations, and it dominates the activities
of the commercial world.
Statisticians know that every period of
financial prosperity is followed by a pe-
riod of depression, and they consequently
have no difficulty in foretelling general
·conditions in the commercial world. We
can apply the same law to our own lives
and thereby come into an understanding
of many experiences which would other-
wise appear inexplicable.
Life is growth, and growth is change.
Each seven years period takes us into a
271
'Ihe :l'{f_,w Psychology
new cycle. The first seven years is the
period of infancy. The next seven the
period of childhood, representing the
beginning of .individual responsibility.
The next seven represents the period of
adolescence. The fourth period marks
the attainment of full growth. The fifth
period is the constructive period, when
men acquire property, possessions, a
home and family. The next, from 35
to 42, is a period of reactions and
changes, and this in turn is followed by
a period of reconstruction, adjustment
and recuperation, so as to be ready for
a new cycle of sevens, beginning with
the fiftieth year.
There are many who think that the
world is just about to pass out of the
sixth period; that it will soon enter into
the seventh period, the period of read-
justment, reconstruction and harmony;
272
equi'librt'um
the period which is frequently referred
to as the Millennium.
Numbers are symbols only. They in-
dicate the quantity and quality of
energy, and their symbols apply to every-
thing in the universe.
It takes seven periods to perfect the
physical manifestation of any created
thing, even an idea.
Madame Blavatsky, m her "Secret
Doctrine," and other occultists in other
works, tell us that there are seven great
cycles in the development of mankind
upon the earth; each of which produce
a Great Race; and each Great Race, in
turn, is sub-divided into Seven Sub-
races.
Among the various nations these seven
Creative Forces of the Cosmos have been
identified with the Rulers of the seven
273
'Ihe ~w Psychology
sacred planets-Sun, Moon, Mercury,
Mars, Venus, Jupiter and Saturn.
The Moon changes its appearance
every seven days. It is a well known
fact that the phases of the moon not
only rule the tides and vegetation, but
in the higher forms of life regulate the
periodic functions of generation rn
general.
The number seven stands for the
recognition of the oneness of the physi-
cal, mental and spiritual being. It pene-
trates to the uttermost depths to reveal
the mysteries of life. Seven is the key
number to Nature's Law of Cause and
Effect.
In many ways there is an actual, tan-
gible, demonstrable relationship between
numbers, letters and ideas ; and all are
acted upon, and act upon the vibrations
274
equilibrium
thus induced. These vibrations are both
mental and physical.
Nature makes no mistakes. Her every
manifestation presents some divine idea,
and unwittingly our actions are made to
conform to her laws. This eliminates
the element of Chance, and all that we
are and do is the result of the action
of definite unchanging laws, and their
reaction in our lives. All is in accord-
ance with the One fundamental prin-
ciple of life, which is motion, or
vibration, and which is forever seeking
equilibrium.
"The Universe," forcibly remarks the
French philosopher Pascal, "is a circle
whose centre is everywhere and whose
circumference is nowhere."
As matter is endless in time or eternal,
so it is no less without beginning or end
in space; in its real existence it with-
275
'The :J{lw 'Psychology
draws itself from the limitations im-
posed on our finite mind by the concep-
tions of time and space, conceptions from
which it cannot free itself in thought.
Whether we inquire about or investigate
the extension of matter in the minutest
or the greatest, we nowhere find an end
or a final form, whether we call to our
aid experiment or reflexion. When the
discovery of the microscope or the juxta-
position of magnifying glasses, opened
up worlds unknown before, and revealed
to the gaze of the investigator a fineness
and minuteness of organic life and or-
ganic form-elements undreamed of until
then, man cherished the audacious hope
of corning on the track of the final or-
ganic element, perhaps on the very basis
of existence.
This hope disappeared in proportion
to the improvement of our instruments.
276
equilibrium
In the hundredth part of a drop of water
was found a world of organic life,
which, by their movements, left no doubt
that they were not without the two chief
marks of animal life, sensation and will.
The smallest of these under the highest
magnifying power are barely recogniz-
able as to their outlines; their internal
organization remains wholly unknown to
us. It is also unknown to us, what yet
smaller forms of living things can or
may exist. "Shall we," asks Cotta, "with
yet improved instruments see the Mon-
ads as giants in a dwarf-world of still
smaller organisms?"
As the microscope guides us in the
world of the minute, so does the tele-
scope direct us in the world of the vast.
Here also astronomers audaciously
dreamed of penetrating to the very limits
of the universe, but the more they per-
277
The ~w Psychology
fected their instruments, the more im-
measurably did the worlds expand be-
fore their astonished gaze. The light
white mists seen by the naked eye in the
vault of heaven were resolved by the
telescope into myriads of stars, of worlds,
of suns, of planetary systems; and the
earth with its inhabitants, so fondly and
proudly deemed the very crown and cen-
ter of existence, fell from its fancied
exaltation to a mere atom moving in
immeasurable space. "All our experi-
ments yield us not the slightest trace of
a limit; each increased power of the
telescope only opens to our gaze new
realms of stars and nebulae, which, if
not consisting of galaxies of stars, are
self-illumining matter."
Thinking leads man to knowledge. He
may see and hear, and read and learn
whatever he pleases, and as much as he
pleases; he will never know anything of
it except that which by thinking he has
made the property of his own mind. Is
it then saying too much if I say that
man, by thinking only, becomes truly
man? Take away thought from man's
life, and what remains?
-Pestalozzi.
