{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__haanel___the_new_psychology____v2.pdf","mytitle":"The New Psychology","mylang":"de"}
The New Psychology
THE UNIVERSAL MIND
THE CONSCIOUS MIND
THE CREATIVE PROCESS .
CSy
(harles F. Haanel
VOLUME II
THE MASTER KEY INSTITUTE
597 FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK, N. Y.
COPYRIGHT 1928
COPYRIGHT 1922
COPYRIGHT 1923
COPYRIGHT 1924
BY
CHARLES F. HAANEL
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.
THe :A([,W PSrCHOLoqr
In Seven Volumes
VOLUME TWO
How to master the thought machin-
ery to meet one's desire is not so
difficult as it may appear to be to
those unacquainted with true mental
discipline. That a man can change
himself, improve himself, re-create
himself, control his environment,
and master his own destiny is the
conclusion of every mind who is
wide-awake to the power of right
thought in constructive action.
-LARSEN.
(ontents: Volume Two
PAGE
Part Five
THE UNIVERSAL Mrno 107
Part Six
THE CoNscrnus Mrno 129
Part Seven
THE CREATIVE PROCESS 155
The Universal unind
Part Five
THE UNIVERSAL MIND
T
HE nervous system is matter.
Its energy is mind. It is there-
fore the instrument of the
Universal Mind. It is the link between
matter and spirit, between our conscious-
ness and the Cosmic-Consciousness. It
is the gateway of Infinite Power.
Both the Cerebra-spinal and the Sym-
pathetic nervous systems are controlled
by nervous energy that is alike in kind;
and the two systems are so interwoven
that their impulses can be sent from one
to the other. Every activity of the body,
every impulse of the nervous system,
every thought, uses up nervous energy.
The system of nerves may be com-
pared to a telegraph system; the nerve
cells corresponding to the batteries, the
107
'The :l\(£w 'Psychology
fibres to the wires. In the batteries is
generated electricity. The cells, how-
ever, do not generate nervous energy.
They transform it and the fibres convey
it. This energy is not a physical wave
like electricity, light, or sound. It is
MIND.
It bears the same relationship to the
mind as a piano does to its player. The
Mind can only have perfect expression
when the instrument through which it
functions is in order.
The organ of the Cerebro-spinal N erv-
ous System is the Brain, the organ of
the Sympathetic Nervous System is the
Solar Plexus. The first is the voluntary
or Conscious, the latter the involuntary
or Subconscious.
It is through the Cerebro-spinal N erv-
ous System and the Brain that we be-
come conscious of possessions, hence all
108
'Ihe Universal r:%ind
possession has its origin in conscious-
ness. The undeveloped consci01;isness of
a babe, or the inhibited consc:iousness of
an idiot, cannot possess.
This mental condition- conscious-
ness-increases in direct proportion to
our acquisition of knowledge. Knowl-
edge is acquired by observation, experi-
ence, and reflection. We become con-
scious of these possessions by the mind;
so that we recognize that possession is
based on consciousness ; this consciousness
we designate the world within. Those
possessions of Form that we acquire are
of the world without.
That which possesses in the world
within is Mind. That which enables us
to possess in the world without is also
Mind. Mind manifests itself as
thoughts, mental pictures, words, and
actions. Thought is therefore Creative.
109
'Ihe ~w Psychology
Our power to use Thought to create the
conditions, surroundings, and other ex-
periences of life, depends upon our habit
of thinking. What we do depends upon
what we are; what we are is the result
of what we habitually think. Before we
can Do, we must BE; before we can
BE we must control and direct the force
of Thought within us.
Thought is Force. There are but two
things in the universe; Force and Form.
When we realize that we possess this
Creative Power, and that we can control
and direct it, and by it act on the forces
and forms in the objective world, we
shall have made our first experiment in
Mental Chemistry.
The Universal Mind is the " Sub-
stance" of all force and form, the reality
that underlies all. In accordance with
fixed laws, from itself, and by itself, is
IIO
The Universal cYrrind
all brought into being and sustained. It
is the creative power of thought in its
perfect expression. The Universal Mind
is all consciousness, all power, and i
<
everywhere resent. It is essentiall e
same at every point of its presence, all
mind is one mind. This explains the
order and harmony of the universe. To
apprehend this statement is to possess the
ability to understand and solve every
problem of life.
Mind has a two-fold expression-con-
scious or objective, and subconscious or
subjective. We come into relationship
with the world without by the objective
mind; and with the world within by the
subconscious mind. Though we are
making a distinction between the con-
scious and the subconscious minds, such
a distinction does not really exist; but
this arrangement will be found conven-
111
'Ihe :J{j_,w Psychology
ient. All Mind is One Mind; rn all
phases of the mental life there is an in-
divisible unity and oneness.
The subconscious mind connects us
with the Universal Mind, and thus we
are brought into direct relationship with
all power. In the subconsciousness is
stored up the observations and expe-
riences of life that have come to it
through the conscious mind. It is the
storehouse of memory. The subcon-
scious mind is a great seed plot in which
thoughts have been dropped, or experi-
ences conveyed by observation, or hap-
penings planted, to come up again into
consciousness with the fruitage of their
growth.
Consciousness is the rnner, and
Thought is the outward expression of
power. The two are inseparable; it is
II2
'The Universal Jteind
impossible to be conscious of a thing
without thinking of it.
We have captured the lightning and
changed its name to electricity. We have
harnessed the waters and made the re-
morseless flood our servant. By the mir-
acle of thought we have quickened water
into vapor to bear the burdens, and
move the commerce of the world. We
have called into being floating palaces
that plough the highways of the deep.
We have triumphed in our conquest of
the air. Although we are moored in the
silvern archipelago of the Milky Way,
we have conquered time and space.
When two electric wires are in close
proximity, the first carrying a heavier
load of electricity than the second, the
second will receive by induction some
current from the first. This will illus-
trate the attitude of mankind to the Uni-
II3
'The ~w 'Psychology
versal Mind. They are not consciously
connected with the source of power.
If the second wire were attached to
the first, it would become charged with
as much electricity as it could carry.
When we become conscious of Power,
we become a "live wire," because by
consciousness we are connected with the
Power. In proportion to our ability to
use power, we are enabled to meet the
various situations which arise in life.
The Universal Mind is the source of
all power and all form. We are chan-
nels through which this power is being
manifested; consequently within us is
power unlimited, possibilities without
end, and all under the control of our
own thought. Because we have these
powers, because we are in living union
with the Universal Mind, we may adjust
II4
'The Universal Jteind
or control every experience which may
come to us.
There are no limitations to the Uni-
versal Mind, therefore the better we
realize our onen~ss with this mind, the
I
less conscious will we be of any limita-
tion or lack, andl the more conscious of
power.
The Universal Mind is the same at ·
every point of its presence, whether in
the in:&nitely large or the infinitely
small. The difference in the power rel-
atively manifested lies entirely in the
ability of expression. A stick of clay
and a stick of dynamite of equal weight
contain much the same amount' of en-
ergy. But in the one it is readily set
free, whereas in the other we have not
yet learned how to release it.
In order to express we must create
the corresponding condition in our con-
115
The ~w Psychology
sc10usness. Either in the Silence or by
repetition we impress this condition upon
the subconsciousness.
Consciousness a p p r e h e n d s , and
Thought manifests the conditions de-
sired. Conditions in our life and in our
environment are but the reflection of our
predominant thoughts. So the impor-
tance of correct thinking cannot be over-
estimated. "Having eyes and seeing not,
having ears and hearing not, neither do
they understand," is another way of ex-
pressing the truth that without con-
sciousness there can be no apprehension.
Thought constructively used creates
tendencies in the subconsciousness, these
tendencies manifest themselves as char-
acter. The primary meaning of the
word character is an engraved mark, as
on a seal; and means: The peculiar
qualities impressed by nature or habit
II6
The Universal Jtrind
on a person, which separates the person
possessing them from all others. Char-
acter has an outward and an inward ex-
pression; the inward being Purpose, and
the outward Ability.
Purpose directs the mind towards the
ideal to be realized, the object to be ac-
complished, or the desire to be material-
ized. Purpose gives quality to thought.
'Ability is the capacity to co-operate with
Omnipotence-although this may be
done unconsciously. Our purpose and
our ability determine our experiences in
life. It is important that purpose and
ability be balanced; when the former is
greater than the latter ''the Dreamer"
is produced; when ability is greater than
purpose, impetuosity is the result, pro-
ducing much useless activity.
By the law of attraction our experi-
ences depend upon our mental attitude.
117
The :JV!_,w 'Psychology
"Like is attracted to like. Mental atti-
tude is as much the result of character
as character is of mental attitude. Each
acts and reacts on the other.
"Chance " "Fate " "Luck " and "Des-
' ' '
tiny" seem to be blind influences at work
behind every experience. This is not so,
but every experience is governed by im-
mutable laws, which may be controlled
so as to produce the conditions which
we desire.
Everything visible and tangible in the
universe is composed of matter, which is
acted upon by force. As a matter is
known to us by its external appearances,
we shall designate it as form.
Form may be divided into four classes.
That possessing Form only, or the in-
organic, as for example, iron, marble,
etc. Form that is living, or the organic,
as for example, plants and the vegetable
II8
/
'The Universal r0teind
world in general. Form that has both
sensation and voluntary motion, as in
animals. Form that in addition to sen-
sation and voluntary motion is conscious
of its own being and its possessions, as
man.
The fundamental principle underly-
ing every successful business relation or
social condition is the recognition of the
difference between the world within and
the world without, the subjective world
and the objective world.
Around you, as the center of it, the
world without revolves. Matter, or-
ganized life, people, thoughts, sounds,
light and other vibrations, the universe
itself with its numberless millions of
phenomena; sending out vibrations to-
ward you, vibrations of light, of sound,
of touch; loudness, softness; of love,
hate, of thoughts, good and bad, wise
I 19
The ~w Psychology
and unwise, true and untrue. These vi-
brations are directed toward you-your
ego-by the smallest, as well as by the
greatest, the farthest and the nearest. A
few of them reach your world within,
but the rest pass by, and as far as you
are immediately concerned, are lost.
Some of these vibrations or forces are
essential to your health, your power,
your success, your happiness. How is it
that they have passed you by, and have
not been received in your world within?
Luther Burbank says: "We are just
beginning to realize what a wonderful
machine is the human brain. We are at
the threshold of knowledge, but until
yesterday we were outside. The human
race has been broadcasting and receiv-
ing, perhaps millions of years, without
knowing, but suffering all the while
from bad thoughts received, and inflict-
120
'Ihe Universal cYrrind
ing suffering by bad thoughts sent. The
radio, while but a very simple instru-
ment as compared with the brain, is
helping us to understand what the brain
is capable of doing-and is doing.
"Those who are familiar with the
radio know what jamming means-the
crowding into a narrow wave-belt of a
great many sending stations, all operat-
ing at once. Since we are all trans-
mitting every time we think, it is obvious
that the jamming in wave-length belts
used by radio transmitters is as nothing
compared with the din made by a bil-
lion and a half human brains. Din may
seem to be a strange word to use in con-
nection with the ether over a quiet
meadow, for instance, but those who
know how to operate radio receiving sets
will understand. No matter how much
jamming is going on, a radio receiving
121
'Ihe :J..&..,w Psychology
set is as quiet as the grave until it is ad-
justed and made resonant by establish-
ing harmony within it. The silence may
change into what may seem to be almost
screaming.
"With everybody broadcasting at once
it follows that the ether must be the
·
sounding chamber into which is crowded
every kind of human thought. As we
do not broadcast with the same inten-
sity, it follows that the weaker vibra-
tions must be drowned out by the
stronger ones. Weak thoughts must soon
fall flat, while strong ones may go to the
ends of the earth for aught anyone
knows. But it seems logical to believe
that thoughts, held in common by mil-
lions may, because of their identical na-
ture, swell into a tremendous chorus,
even though the human transmitters may
not individually be very strong senders."
122
The Universal r:%ind
Considering consciousness as a gen-
eral term, we may say that it is the ac-
tion of the objective upon the subjective.
This takes place continuously whether
we are awake or asleep. Consciousness
is the result of sensing or feeling.
We easily recognize three phases of
consciousness, between each of which
there are enormous differences.
r. Simple consciousness, which all ani-
mals possess in common. It is the sense
of existence, by which we recognize that
"we are," and "that we are where we
are;" and by which we perceive the
various objects and varied scenes and
conditions.
2. Self-consciousness, possessed by all
mankind, except infants, and the men-
tally deficient. This gives us the power
of self contemplation, i. e., the effect of
the world without upon our world
123
c:I'he J\&__,w Psychology
within. "Self cont em p 1ates self."
Amongst many other results, language
has thus come into existence, each word
being a symbol for a thought or an idea.
3. Cosmic-consciousness, this form of
consciousness is as much above self-con-
sciousness as self-consciousness is above
simple consciousness. It is as different
from either as sight is different from
hearing or touch. A blind man can get
no true notion of color, however keen
his hearing or sensitive his touch.
Neither by simple consciousness nor
by self-consciousness can one get any no-
tion of cosmic-consciousness. It is not
like either of them, any more than sight
is like hearing. A deaf man can never
learn of the value of music by means of
his senses of sight or of touch.
Cosmic-consciousness is all forms of
consciousness. It overrides time and
124
'Ihe Universal Uteind
space, for apart from the body and the
world of matter, these do not exist.
The immutable law of consciousness
is: that in the degree that the conscious-
ness is developed, so is the development
of power in the subjective, and its con-
sequent manifestation in the objective.
Cosrr:iic-consciousness is the result of
the creation of the necessary conditions,
so that the Universal Mind may function
in the direction desired. All vibrations
in harmony with the Ego's well being
are caught and used.
When truth is directly apprehended,
or becomes a part of consciousness, with-
out the usual process of reasoning or ob-
servation, it is intuition. By intuition
the mind instantly perceives the agree-
ment or the disagreement between two
ideas. The Ego always so recognizes
truth.
125
'The ~w Psychology
By intuition the mind transforms
knowledge into wisdom, experience into
success, and takes into the world within
the things that have been waiting for us
in the world without. Intuition, then, is
another phase of the Universal Mind
that presents truth as facts of conscious-
ness.
126
The (onscious ~ind
Part Six
THE CONSCIOUS MIND
L the lost mines of Mexico, all
the argosies that ever sailed
from the Indies, all the gold
and silver-laden ships of the treasure
fleets of storied Spain, count no more in
value than a beggar's dole compared to
the wealth that is created every eight
hours by modern business ideas.
Opportunity follows perception, ac-
tion follows inspiration, growth follows
knowledge, environment follows prog- .
ress, always the mental first, then the
transformation into the illimitable possi-
bilities of character and achievement.
The progress of the United States is
due to two per cent of its population.
In other words, all our railroads, all our
telephones, our automobiles, our libra-
129
'The ~w Psychology
nes, our newspapers, and a thousand
other conveniences, comforts and necessi-
ties are due to the creative genius of
two per cent of the population.
As a natural consequence, the same
two per cent are the millionaires of our
country. Now, who are these million-
aires, these creative geniuses, these men
of ability and energy, to whom we owe
practically all the benefits of civiliza-
tion?
Thirty per cent of them were the sons
of poor preachers who had never earned
more than $r ,500 a year; twenty-five per
cent were the sons of teachers, doctors,
and country lawyers; and only five per
cent were the sons of bankers.
We are interested, therefore, in ascer-
taining why the two per cent succeeded
in acquiring all that is best in life, and
the ninety-eight per cent remain in per-
130
'Ihe Consct'ous Jteind
petual want. We know that this is not a
matter of chance, because the universe
is governed by law. Law governs solar
systems, sun, stars, planets. Law gov-
erns every form of light, heat, sound, and
energy. Law governs every material
thing and every immaterial thought.
Law covers the earth with beauty and
fills it with bounty-shall we then not
be certain that it also governs the dis-
tribution of this bounty?
Financial affairs are governed by law
just as surely, just as positively, just as
definitely, as health, growth, harmony,
or any other condition in life, and the
law is one with which anyone can
comply.
Many are already unconsciously com-
plying with this law; others are con-
sciously coming into harmony with it.
Compliance with the law means join-
131
'Ihe ~w Psychology
ing the ranks of the two per cent; in
fact, the new era, the golden age, the in-
dustrial emancipation, means that the
two per cent is about to expand until
the prevailing conditions shall have been
reversed-the two per cent will soon be-
come the ninety-eight per cent.
In seeking the truth we are seeking
ultimate cause; we know that every hu-
man experience is an effect; therefore,
if we may ascertain the cause, and if
we shall find that this cause is one which
we can consciously control, the effect or
the experience will be within our control
also.
Human experience will then no longer
be the football of fate; a man will not
be the child of fortune; but destiny, fate
and fortune will be controlled as readily
as a captain controls his vessel, or an
engineer his train.
132
'Ihe Conscious c:JtCind
All things are finally resolvable into
the same thing, and as they are thus
translatable, one into the other, they
must ever be in relation and may never
be in opposition to one another.
In the physical world there are in-
numerable contrasts, and these may, for
the sake of convenience, be designated
by distinctive names. There are sur-
faces, colors, shades, dimensions, or ends
to all things. There is a North Pole,
and a South Pole; an inside and an out-
side; a seen and an unseen; but these
expressions merely serve to place ex-
tremes in contrast.
They are names given to two different
parts or aspects of the same quantity.
The two extremes are relative; they are
not separate entities, but are two parts
or aspects of one whole.
In the mental world we find the same
133
'The ~w Psychology
law. We speak of knowledge and ig-
norance, but ignorance is but a lack of
knowledge and is therefore found to be
simply a word to express the absence
of knowledge; it has no principle in
itself.
In the moral world we speak of good
and evil, but upon investigation, we find
that good and evil are but relative terms.
Thought precedes and predetermines ac-
tion; if this action results in benefit to
ourselves and others, we call this result
good. If this result is to the disadvan-
tage of ourselves and others, we call it
evil. Good and evil are therefore found
to be simply words which have been
coined to indicate the result of our ac-
tions, which in turn are the result of our
thoughts.
In the Industrial World, we speak of
Labor and Capital as if there were two
134
'Ihe Conscious ~ind
separate and distinct classes, but Capital
is wealth and wealth is a product of
Labor, and Labor necessarily includes
Industry of every kind-physical, men-
tal, executive, and professional. Every
man or woman who depends in whole
or in part for his or her income upon
the results of his or her effort in the In-
dustrial World must be classed as Labor.
We therefore find that in the Industrial
World there is but one Principle and
that is Labor, or Industry.
There are many who are seriously and
earnestly trying to find the solution to
the present industrial and social chaos,
and we hear much of production, waste,
efficiency-and sometimes something in
regard to constructive thinking.
The thought that humanity is on the
borderland of a new idea, that the dawn
of a new era is at hand, that a new epoch
135
'The :A(ew Psychology
m the history of the world is about to
take place, is rapidly spreading from
mind to mind, and is changing the pre-
conceived ideas of man and his relation
to Industry.
We know that every condition is the
result of a cause, and that the same cause
invariably produces the same result.
What has been the cause of similar
changes in the thought of the world; the
Renaissance, the Reformation, the Indus-
trial Revolution? Always the discovery
and discussion of new knowledge.
The elimination of c;:ompetition by the
centralization of industry into corpora-
tions and trusts, and the economies re-
sulting therefrom, have set man to think-
ing.
He sees that competition is not neces-
sary to progress and he is asking: "What
will be the outcome of the evolution
.136
'Ihe Conscious Urfind
which is taking place in the Industrial
World?" And gradually the thought
begins to dawn, the thought which is
rapidly germinating, which is about to
burst forth in the minds of all men
everywhere, the thought which is carry-
ing men off their feet and crowding out
every selfish idea, the thought that the
emancipation of the Industrial World
is at hand.
This is the thought which is arousing
the enthusiasm of mankind as never be-
fore; this is the thought which is cen-
tralizing force and energy, and which
will destroy every barrier between itself
and its purpose. It is not a vision of
the future; it is a vision of the present;
it is at the door-and the door is open.
The creative instinct in the individual
is his spiritual nature; it is a reflection
of the Universal Creative Principle; it
137
/ 'The ~w Psychology
is therefore instinctive and innate; it
cannot be eradicated; it can only be
perverted.
Owing to the changes which have
taken place in the Industrial World,
}his cr.eative instinct no longer finds ex-
pression ; a man cannot build his own
house ; he can no longer make his own
garden; he can by no manner of means
direct his own labor; he is therefore de-
prived of the greatest joy which can
come to the individual, the joy of creat-
ing, of achievement; and so this great
power for good is perverted and turned
into destructive channels; becoming en-
vious, he attempts to destroy the works
of his more fortunate fellows.
Thought results in action. If we wish
to change the nature of the action, we
must change the thought, and the only
way to change the thought is to substi-
138
'Ihe Conscious ~ind
tute a healthy mental attitude for the
chaotic mental conditions existing at
present.
It is evident that the power of thought
is by far the greatest power in existence;
it is the power which controls every
other power, and while this knowledge
has until recently been the possession of
the few, it is about to become the price-
less privilege of the many. Those who
have the imagination, the vision, will see
the opportunity of directing this thought
into constructive and creative channels;
they will encourage and foster the spirit
of mental adventure; they will arouse,
develop and direct the creative instinct,
in which case we shall soon see such
an industrial revival as the world has
never before experienced.
Henry Ford visions the approach of
139
'The ~w Psychology
the new Era in The Dearborn Independ-
ent. He says:
"The human race is now on the border
line between two periods, the period
when to use is to lose, and the period
when not to use is to waste. For a long
time mankind has been conscious of
somehow coming to the end of irrespon-
sible childhood; the provision made by
the Parent of mankind has seemed to be
coming to the end of its lavishness.
That is, there has been a sense that the
more we used the less we had in re-
serve. This feeling has been expressed
in the popular adage, 'You can't eat your
cake and have it.'
"But now that man is learning enough
to plant his supply as well as reap it, to
make his supply a recurrent crop in-
stead of a slowly diminishing original
store of natural resources, the time is
140
'Ihe Conscious Jtfind
coming when instead of being afraid of
wasting our resources by using them we
shall be afraid of wasting them by not
using them. The stream of supply will
be so full and constant that when people
worry it will not be worry about not
having enough, but about not using
enough.
"If you can imagine a world in which
the source of supply will be so plentiful
that people will worry about not using
enough of it, instead of worrying as we
do now about using too much, you will
have a picture of the world that is soon
to be. We have long depended on the
resources which nature long ago stored
up, the resources which can be ex-
hausted. We a.re entering an era when
we shall create resources which shall
be so constantly renewed that the only
loss will be not to use them. There will
141
Cfhe ~w Psychology
be such a plenteous supply of heat, light
and power, that it will be sin not to use
all we want. This era is coming in now.
And it is coming by way of Water.
"With the fuel question settled, and
the light question settled, and the heat-
ing question settled, and the power ques-
tion settled, on such terms as actually
liberate the whole world from the crush-
ing weight of these four great burdens;
and not only that, but with the whole
fuel and light and heat and power situa-
tion turned around so that people will
have to use all that they want, in order
to prevent waste-don't you see how eco-
nomic life will swing loose and breathe
deeply, as if a new spring day had
dawned for humanity?
"That is the era we are approaching.
There is no question about that. There
will be, of course, the usual preliminary
142
'The (onscz'ous utrind
skirmish between selfishness and service,
but service will win. The ownership
of a coal mine located on a man's prop-
erty may easily be granted to private
parties; but the ownership of a river I
Nature itself rebukes the man who would
claim ownership of a river.
"Our next period is before us, not the
first period of reckless waste, nor the
second period of anxious accounting, but
the third period of overlapping abun-
dance which compels us to use and use
and use, to fulfill every need."
Thought is mind in motion, just as
wind is air in motion. Mind is a spir-
itual activity; in fact, it is the only ac-
tivity which the spiritual man possesses,
and Spirit is the creative Principle of
the Universe.
Therefore, when we think, we start a
train of causation; the thoughts go forth
143
The :N:!..,w Psychology
and meet other similar thoughts; they
coalesce and form ideas; the ideas now
exist independently of the thinker; they
are the invisible seeds which exist every-
where, and which sprout and grow and
bring forth fruit, some an hundred-and
some a thousandfold.
We have been led to believe, and many
still seem to think, that Wealth is some-
thing very material and tangible; that
we can secure and hold it for our own
exclusive use and benefit. We somehow
forget that all the gold in the world only
amounts to a very few dollars per capita.
The entire supply of gold for the world
is only eight billion dollars.
This includes all the gold coined or
in bars in the various banks or Govern-
ment treasuries of the world. This quan-
tity of gold could be easily contained in
a sixty-foot cube. If we depended upon
144
The Conscious ~ind
the supply of gold it would be exhausted
in a single day, and yet with this as a
basis we spend hundreds and thousands,
millions and now billions, of dollars
daily, and yet the original supply of gold
is not altered. The gold is simply a
measure, a rule; with one ruler we may
measure thousands and hundreds of
thousands of feet, so with one $5 bill
hundreds and thousands and millions of
people may have the use of it by simply
passing it from one to the other.
So it is that if we can only keep the
tokens of wealth, which we call money,
circulating, everyone could have all he
or she might want; there need be no
lack. The sense of lack comes only
when we begin to hoard, when we are
seized with fear and panic and fail to
give out, to release.
It is therefore evident that the only
145
'The ~w Psychology
way we can get any benefit from wealth
is by its use, and to use it we must give
it out, so that someone else can get the
benefit of it; we are then co-operating
for our mutual benefit and putting the
law of abundance into practical opera-
tion.
We also see that wealth is by no
means as substantial and tangible as
many suppose, but that, on the contrary,
the only way to get it is to keep it going;
as soon as there is any concerted move-
ment whereby there is any danger of
stopping the circulation of this medium
of exchange there is stagnation, fever,
panic, and industrial death.
It is this intangible nature of wealth
'that makes it peculiarly susceptible to
the power of thought and has enabled
many men to secure fortunes in a year
or two which others could not hope to
146
'Ihe Conscious Urrind
acquire in a lifetime of effort. This is
due to the creative power of mind.
Helen Wilmans gives an interesting
description of the practical operation of
this law in "The Conquest of Poverty."
She says:
"There is an almost universal reach-
ing out for money. This reaching out is
from the acquisitive faculties only, and
its operations are confined to the com-
petitive realm of the business world. It
is a purely external proceeding; its mode
of action is not rooted in the knowledge
of the inner life, with its finer, more just,
and spiritualized wants. It is but an
extension of animality into the realm of
the human, and no power can lift it to
the divine plane the race is now ap-
proaching.
"For all lifting on this plane is the re-
sult of spiritual growth. It is doing
147
'The :J..&..,w 'Psychology
just what Christ said we must do in
order to be rich. It is first seeking the
kingdom of heaven within, where alone
it exists. After this kingdom is dis-
covered, then all these things (external
wealth) shall be added.
"What is there within a man that can
be called the kingdom of heaven? When
I answer this question not one reader
out of ten will believe me-so utterly
bankrupt of knowledge of their own
internal wealth are the great majority of
people. But I shall answer it, never-
theless, and it will be .answered truly.
"Heaven exists within us in the facul-
ties latent in the human brain, the su er-
abundance of which no man has ever
- .
dreamed. The weakest man living has
the powers of a God folded within his
organization; and they will remain
folded until he learns to believe in their
148
'Ihe (onsct'ous ~ind
existence, and then tries to develop them.
Men generally are not introspective, and
this is why they are not rich. They are
poverty-stricken in their own opinions
of themselves and their powers, and they
put the stamp of their belief on every-
thing they come in contact with. If a
day labore~ let us say, does but look
within himself long enough to perceive
that he has an intellect that can be made
as great and far reaching as that of the
man he serves; if he sees this, and at-
taches due importance to it, the mere fact
of his seeing it, has, to a degree, loosened
his bonds and brought him face to face
with better conditions.
"But there is wanted something more
than the fact of knowing that he is, or
may become, by recognition of self, his
employer's intellectual equal. There re-
mains the fact that he needs also to know
149
'The ~w Psychology
the Law and claim its provisions;
namely, that his superior knowing re-
lates him to a superior position. He
must know this an.d trust it; for it is
by holding this truth in faith and trust
that he begins to ascend bodily. Em-
ployers everywhere hail with delight the
acquisition of employes who are not
mere machines-they want brains in
their business and are glad to pay for
them. Cheap help is often the most ex-
pensive, in the sense of being the least
profitable. As brain growth or develop-
ment of thought power in the employe
increases his value to the employer, and
as the employe grows to the degree of
strength where he is capable of doing
for himself, there will be another not
yet grown so strong to take his place.
"The gradual recognition by a man
of his own latent powers is the heaven
150
'The (onsdous r:.Yteind
within that is to be brought forward in
the world and established in these condi-
tions which correlate it.
"A mental poor-house projects from
itself the spirit of a visible poor-house,
and this spirit expresses itself in visible
externals correlated to its character.
"A mental palace sends forth the spirit
of a visible palace with results that cor-
relate it. And the same may be said of
sickness and sin, of health and good-
ness."
151
The (reative Process
Part Seven
THE CREATIVE PROCESS
I
F THE chemist produces nothing of
value, nothing which can be con-
verted into cash, we are not in-
terested.
But, fortunately the chemist in this
case produces an article which has the
highest cash value of any article known
to man.
He provides the one thing which all
the world demands, something which can
be realized upon anywhere, at any time;
it is not a slow asset; on the contrary,
its value is recognized in every market.
The product is thought; thought rules
the world; thought rules every Govern-
ment, every bank, every industry, every
person and everything in existence, and
155
The ~w 'Psychology
is differentiated from everything else,
simply and only because of thoµght.
Every person is what he is because of
his method of thinking, and men and
nations differ from each other only be-
cause they think differently.
What then is thought? Thought is
the product of the chemical laboratory
possessed by every thinking individual;
it is the blossom, the combined intelli-
gence which is the result of all previous
thinking processes; it is the fruit and
contains the best of all that the indi-
vidual has to give.
There is nothing material about a
thought, and yet no man would give up
his aBility to think for all the gold in
Christendom; it is therefore of more
value than anything which exists. As
it is not mat.erial it must be spiritual.
Here then is an explanation of the won-
156
., .
'The Creative Process
derful value of thought. Thought is a
spiritual activity; in fact, it is the only
activity which the spirit possesses. Spirit
is the creative principle of the Universe;
as a part must be the same in kind and
quality as the whole, and can differ only
in degree, thought must be creative also.
The ancients felt that every piece of
sculpture was the embodiment of an idea
or sentiment, and was produced on the
principle that there is a perfect corre-
spondence between mental states and
physical expression.
We of the present day recognize that
there is a direct correspondence between
mental states and the condition of the
human body, and that knowledge has
been so formulated that we now know
that every condition is an effect, and this
effect is a result of a cause which had
its origin in an idea.
157
:The :N:!_,w Psychology
Modern science is now directing atten-
tion to the fact that ideas are also respon-
sible for every form of wealth and its
distribution. The science of economics
is therefore seen to be the science which
treats of the laws governing ideas and
their expression on a material plane.
It takes the sun about two thousand
years to pass from one sign of the Zodiac
to another. In oriental literature these
are called sub-race periods, for it is
during such a period that a nation is
born, matures, grows old and dies. Most
of the European nations are now ending
their two thousand year cycle, and the
necessary readjustments are taking place.
It remains then for us, a new nation,
in a new world, to assist in the read-
justment.
In this readjustment it might be well
to remember that intelligence rules; that
158
'The Creative Process
constructive thought, intelligently di-
rected, automatically causes its object to
materialize on the objective plane; that
cause and effect are supreme in a uni-
verse governed by immutable law; that
· it is the mind alone which can furnish
the knowledge with which to ameliorate
the conditions of life. It is the mind
which builds every house, writes every
book, paints every picture; it is the mind
which suffers and enjoys; it follows that
a knowledge of the functions of the mind
ranks first in importance to the human
race.
Senator Wadsworth recently said: "I
pray that the time will come when
American public opinion will come to
an appreciation of what organic chem-
istry means, of what research means, in
the way of progress. We have been in-
terested as a people in the development
159
'The :lX!_,w Psychology
of material resources-the digging of
iron and coal from the ground, the rais-
ing of crops upon the surface, and the
engaging in transportation and other
forms of commercial effort. As a people
we have paid little attention and given
little encouragement to scientific re-
search, but Mr. President and Senators,
the progress of the future depends upon
scientific research. It is the man work-
ing in the chemical laboratory who is
to blaze the way for human progress."
He went on to say: "I believe that
in organic chemistry lies the solution of
the secrets of the past and of the future.
I believe that its establishment and
maintenance in this country, even under
an embargo, means the happiness, the
progress, and the security of 100,000,000
people."
Senator Frelinghuysen added: "When
160
'The Creative Process
we realize that it was due to the genius
of the German chemists, and the advance
in the science by the German industries,
that enabled Germany to get almost to
the channel ports; when we realize that
the next war will be fought with chem-
icals, I think it is our patriotic duty
to give this industry the highest pro-
tection that can be imposed."
It is true that many of the more im-
portant discoveries in science are due to
the genius of German chemists; it is
also true that the next war, if there be
one, will be fought with chemicals, but
the next and all future wars will be won
by an understanding of mental chem-
istry.
Try to realize the situation, think for
a moment, see an army of men pass in
review, four abreast, all men in the
prime of life, see them march on and on,
161
'Ihe ~w Psychology
men from Germany, men from France,
from England, from Belgium, from
Austria, from Russia, from Poland,
from Rumania, from Bulgaria, from
Servia, from Turkey, yes and from
China and Japan, India, New Zealand,
Australia, Egypt and America, on they
go, marching all day long, all the next
day and the day after, all the week they
keep coming and the next week, and the
next week, and the next month, for it
would take months for this army of ten
million men to pass any given point.
All dead, and dead only because a few
men in high places were more concerned
about organic chemistry than they were
about mental chemistry. They did not
know that force can always be met with
equal or superior force; they did not
know that a higher law always controls
a lower law, and because intelligent men
162
The Creative Process
and women allowed a few men in high
places to control their thinking processes,
the entire world must sit in sack-cloth
and ashes, for the living will find it nec-
essary to work the rest of their lives in
order to even pay the interest on the
obligations assumed, and their children
will find these obligations an inheritance,
and they in turn will pass them on to
their children and their children's chil-
dren.
A celebrated European statesman vi-
sions the present situation as follows:
"Unfortunately, the ills of a war like
that of 1914-1918 are repaired but with
difficulty. Given even the entire good
faith of the conquered, if the latter by
conscientious labor genuinely desired to
help the world out of its sanguinary
nightmare and back to normal life, that
world would none the less remain for a
163
'The ~w Psychology
long time hopelessly adrift and at sea.
We are assisting today at the prolonga-
tion of a war which is not even likely to
approach a conclusion unless there is a
new orientation of a peace-time energy.
Finances upside down, budgets arti-
ficially met, rates of exchange giving 65
francs to the pound and 14 to the dollar,
a terribly distorted fiduciary circulation,
an ever-increasing cost of living, strikes,
rapid changes in the stock markets, mak-
ing commerce and industry impossible;
accumulation of stocks-such is the ran-
som of these four years of war. _It was
materially impossible that either for con-
queror or conquered aught else should
result from this world catastrophe than
complete chaos for all. Millions of men
are not consecrated for 52 months to a
work of death and destruction for the
world to be re-established on the morrow
164
The Creative Process
of peace. Such rapidly reacquired
equilibrium is beyond the bounds of hu-
man practicability."
It will be remembered that the Master
Metaphysician said the same thing in
somewhat different language many years
ago:
"Then shall be great tribulation such
as never was since the beginning of the
world, nor never shall be afterwards,
and if that period would not be short-
ened no flesh at all would be saved, but
for the elect's sake that period will be
shortened."-Matt. 24:21, 22.
That people are beginning to think
is evident; formerly when men were dis-
contented or dissatisfied they met in a
near-by saloon, had a few drinks and
promptly forgot their discontent and dis-
satisfaction. The situation is very dif-
ferent under existing conditions, men
165
The ~w Prychology
spend their time reading, studying and
thinking, and the more they think the
less satisfied t~ey become.
Leaders of men all know this, for this
reason England has her ale, Scotland her
whisky, France her absinthe, Germany
her beer and we of America who are
recruited from all of these have had all
forms of alcohol; it is by far the easiest
way of keeping the people "happy and
contented." A man who has access to
a fair percentage of alcohol, will not
ask too many questions; if he does give
him another drink.
This method of reducing the citizens
of a country to a kind of idiotic servility
has the additional advantage in that it
produces enormous revenues which may
be used for reducing them to economic
slavery as well as spiritual slavery, for
the man who cannot think has but small
166
'Ihe Creative 'Process
prospect of ever coming into any under-
standing of spiritual truth.
The history of the world confirms this
conclusion. Egypt, once at the head of
nations, has, ·under the weight of her
own effeminacy, gone down to the dust.
The victories of Greece let in upon her
the luxuries of the East, and covered her
glory with a night of ages. And Rome,
whose iron foot trod down the nations
and shook the earth, witnessed in her
latter days faintness of heart and the
shield of the mighty vilely cast away.
Ten years ago the securities of Ger-
man corporations sold side by side with
those of England and America, no one
dreamed that they were not absolutely
safe. The Municipal bonds of any large
German city sold freely on a 4 per cent
basis in London, Paris and New York.
167
'Ihe ~w Psychology
The mark was as stable as the dollar
or pound sterling.
The interest is still being paid upon
these securities and the principal will be
paid at maturity, but in money that is
hardly worth the paper it is printed
upon, and so the conservative German
investor, the man who made only "safe"
investments, who was careful to buy only
first mortgage bonds that yielded not
more than 4 or 5 per cent is practically
penniless, but as a compensation he can
reflect that a liberal Government allowed
the people to have plenty of beer, and
when men have plenty of beer they will
usually be glad to let some one else do
the thinking for them, for the use of
beer is not calculated to produce deep,
clear, sustained or logical thought.
Thousands and tens of thousands of
American citizens are slowly and pain-
168
'The Creative Process
fully creating a fund which they hope
will protect them in the days to come;
is it impossible that they, too, will be
paid in valueless dollars ten years from
now?
The reason that the dollar will prob-
ably remain at par is because we do not
desire the kind of personal liberty that
enriches a few at the expense of the
many, the kind of liberty that attempts
to reduce American citizens to automa-
tons in order that a few may dictate the
destiny of the nation.
We of America must remember that
the large business of life is not econom-
ically conducted unless we succeed in
transforming our resources into the high-
est grade of physical, mental and moral
persons evolvable.
Marion Leroy Burton, President of
the University of Michigan, says: "Per-
169
rhe :lX!_,w Psychology
haps the most solemn question that can
be put to a person today is, 'Can you
think?' The test of individual efficiency
and usefulness to society centers in a
man's ability to use his mind. Emer-
son never erected a more arresting dan-
ger signal than when he exclaimed:
'Beware when the great God lets loose a
thinker on the planet.' If we could
only harness the mental power of Amer-
ica today we could solve the gigantic
problems of the world. Not by appeals
to prejudice and class interest, not by
the hurling of epithets, not by the ready
acceptance of half truths, not by super-
ficial, but by careful, painstaking, sci-
entific, scholarly thought combined with
wise and timely action, will civilization
be rescued and human freedom made
secure. Upon Education depends the
future of Democracy. Therefore, every
170
'Ihe (reatz"ve Process
loyal citizen, every self-respecting per-
son, must utilize his opportunities to
strengthen his grip on knowledge and
to stimulate his mind. The truth has al-
ways made men free, and truth is avail-
able only for him who thinks."
Roger W. Babson says: "If statistics
have taught us any one thing during the
past twenty years, it is that the spiritual
factor is the greatest factor in the growth
of communities and nations. It is well
enough to talk about land, labor and
capital. They all have their uses and
functions, but of themselves they are
helpless in bringing about prosperity.
Land, labor and capital existed long be-
fore there was even civilization. Many
great nations, such as Babylon, Persia,
Egypt, Greece, Rome and even Spain,
have possessed land, labor and capital
in abundance, but fell for want of this
171
'Ihe :l\&_,w Psychology
far more important quality-the spir-
itual factor.
"I'm looking out of my window at
the highway where a man is at work
with a pick. The highway is the land;
the man is the labor; and the pick is the
capital. This is a perfect illustration
of land, labor and capital; but it also
illustrates that such a combination can
be used either to destroy or to con-
struct,-to break up the road, or to re-
pair the road. The man can use the
pick to make the ruts and holes deeper,
or to fill them up. It all depends upon
the purpose, the motive and the desire
of the man. Purpose, motive and desire
are spiritual factors and are all impor-
tant. Land, labor and capital, and even
education, are mere tools which can be
used either for good or for evil. Two
men graduate from the same law school
172
The (reatt've Process
and get the same degree ;-one uses his
education to uphold the law, and the
other uses his education to help men
evade the law. Two chemists graduate
from the same technical school in the
same class ;-one uses his training to
make foods pure; and the other uses the
same training to adulterate foods."
Thinking is a creative process and
combination is the key. Nature com-
bines electrons, atoms, molecules, cells
and the final result is the Universe. In
the field of human endeavor all pro-
gression, development and achievement
is the result of following the lesson
learned from nature, and man has risen
step by step from the primitive brute
state to his present position of master-
ship by combining, uniting and relating
thoughts, things and forces.
In the domain of science and inven-
173
'The :N!_;LRJ Psychology
tion, in the realm of art, literature, and
business, in every department of human
activity, by combining the common, the
usual, the known, man has unveiled and
discovered the uncommon, the unusual,
the unknown. Man has progressed rap-
idly in spite of the fact that the method
pursued in finding out new combinations
was used unconsciously and unsystemat-
ically. In order to eliminate accident
and chance, there must be employed a
scientific method, applied consciously
and systematically, exhaustively, ear-
nestly, honestly, continuously, resulting
in greater success, more wonderful dis-
coveries, more numerous and astounding
inventions.
Every time we breathe, we take into
our lungs not only air, but spirit or
Prana, the breath of life.
Every element in the material world
174
The Creative Process
is in every breath we take. From these
elements the cabbage takes what it wants
to form a cabbage. From these same
elements, the apple tree forms and colors
an apple, and the rose from these ele-
ments produces, colors and perfumes a
rose. Surely, it was intended that man
should know as much as the cabbage,
the apple, or the rose about handling
these elements.
There is one universal substance, out
of which all things are formed, and the
difference between flesh, vegetable, stone,
iron, glass, etc., is the difference in the
vibration, or motion of these particles of
substance, as they are brought together
and act and react upon each other.
Form is the expression of Spirit,
Mind, Life, Energy. The human brain
is the finest, most vibrant vehicle on this
plane of existence, and thus it has power
175
'Ihe :N:!_,w Psychology
to control all things. When we think
or concentrate along any particular line,
we start a train of causation, and if our
thought is sufficiently concentrated and
kept continuously in mind, what hap-
pens?
There is only one thing that can hap-
pen. Whatever the vision we have, the
i~agination we have-the image is ac-
cepted by the Universal Intelligence ex-
pressing through the cells of our phys-
ical body and environment, and these
cells send out their calls into the great
formless energy for the material which
corresponds with the image and har-
monizes in its vibration with it. If the
image is for success along any particu-
lar line or fear of a particular thing, we
call the atoms from out of the form-
less energy which make for the success
or the thing we fear-and thus we relate
176
'The (reatz've Process
with conditions according to the energy
created through the instrumentality of
the human mind.
Thought acts upon the body or en-
vironment subconsciously. The New
York Times tells how the same result
is being accomplished by the Govern-
ment by the use of mechanical means.
The subject of the article is How Skill
Is Gained in Sleep.
"Wise folk will refrain from express-
ing either amusement or incredulity
when they read about the discovery at
the Government station near Pensacola
that students in the radio school con-
ducted there are gaining speed otherwise
unattainable in the receiving of code
radio from rapidly transmitted messages
heard by them through instruments
strapped to their ears when they go to
bed. Why the expectation of getting
177
The :JX£w 'Psychology
the messages does not keep them awake
is a little mysterious, but go to sleep they
do before taking these strange lessons,
and discoveries made in the last twenty
years in the domain of the unconscious
or subconscious are sufficient to account
for the possibility of teaching in this
way. After all, whether it can be done
or not is a matter of fact, to be deter-
mined by experience.
"According to the officials at the sta-
tion, the thing has been done and now
has become a routine procedure.
"The subconscious part of the brain
possesses many remarkable abilities,
some of which long have been known,
though unrecognized for what they are,
while others are coming to light almost
daily as the investigations of the psychol-
ogists go on. Not a few familiar activ-
ities are performed really well only after
178
'Ihe Creative Process
we have ceased to do them-by conscious
effort. The skilled typist leaves the find-
ing of the keys entirely as it seems to
her fingers, and the piano player does
the same thing. The driver of a motor
car who has to think what to do when an
emergency arises is a dangerous person
to ride with; to be safe he must do the
right thing 'automatically,' it used to
be said, but now his efficiency is ascribed
to the training which his subconscious
has received.
"As the subconscious never sleeps and
never forgets, the teaching it receives has
lasting effects, and there is no reason
why such teaching should not be direct
and intentional rather than indirect and
unintentional, or at least unrealized, as
it has been in the past.
"If radio operators can attain by prac-
tice in receiving code messages while
179
The :A(£w Psychology
asleep a skill which is beyond their
reach when all their practicing is done
while awake, it seems more than prob-
able that instruction for other purposes
can be given in the same way. Thence
the humorist presumably will imagine
and describe schools and colleges where
both teachers and pupils do all their
mental labor after they have gone to bed
and put the lights out. The fact, how-
ever, that a theory can be reduced to ,an
absurdity by pushing it to its logical ex-
tremity does not prove the theory un-
sound when its application is kept within
reasonable bounds.
"Anybody who, under expert guid- .
ance, makes a list of the number of tasks
he daily entrusts with entire confidence
to his subconscious powers will be sur-
prised at their number. They begin with
the beating of the heart and the drawing
180
The Creative 'Process
of the breath and they go on to decision
as to which hand shall be extended for
shaking when we meet a friend, and
into which pocket we shall reach to get a
knife or a pencil.
"The difference between ability and
inability to swim is a mystery to the con-
scious mind, for no swimmer can tell
what he does after he learns that is dif-
ferent from what he did before the art
was gained. But the subconscious knows,
and makes an easy job of what a little
before was an impossibility."
181
There is nothing truer than that the
quality of thought which we entertain
correlates certain externals in the outside
world. This is the Law from which
there is no escape. And it is this Law,
this correlative of the thought with its
object, that from time immemorial has led
the people to believe in special provi-
dence.
-Wilmans.
