{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__haanel___the_new_psychology____v4.pdf","mytitle":"The New Psychology","mylang":"de"}
The New Psychology
PHYSIOLOGY
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MEDICINE
MENTAL CHEMISTRY
CSy
(harles F. Haanel
VOLUME IV
THE MASTER KEY INSTITUTE
597 FIFfH AVENUE NEW YORK, N. Y.
COPYRIGHT I928
COPYRIGHT 1922
COPYRIGHT 1923
COPYRIGHT 1924
BY
CHARLES F. HAANEL
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.
Thought engenders thought. Place
one idea upon paper, another will
foilow it, and still another, until
you have written a page. You can
notfathom your mind. It is a well
ofthought which has no bottom. The
more you draw from it, the more
clear andfruitful it will be. Ifyou
neglect to think yourself, and use
other people's thoughts, giving
them utterance only, you will
never know what you are capable
oj.-G. A. SALA.
Contents: Volume Four
PAGE
Part Eleven
PHYSIOLOGY
Part Twelve
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF MEDICINE 325
Part Thirteen
MENTAL CHEMISTRY 343
Physiology
Part eleven
PHYSIOLOGY
0
NE of the most interesting fea-
tures of the human system is
its series of manufacturing
plants in which are produced the chem-
ical agents necessary to mobilize the
constituents of food. And it is a part
of the fine natural economy that the
secretions containing these chemical
agents should serve several other pur-
poses also. In general, each may be
said to have an alterative effect upon the
others, or at least upon the activities of
the other plants; also they act upon the
inward-bound nerve paths as exciters of
effects in both the conscious and the sub-
conscious activities.
Radiant energy, whether consciously
or subconsciously released from the body,
291
'The ~w Psychology
becomes the medium of sensory impres-
sions that flash back to the .perceptive
centers and there set up reactions which
are interpreted by these centers accord-
ing to their stage of development of self,
and therefore they interpret these mes-
sages exactly as they are received, with-
out attempt to "think" about them, or to
analyze them. The process is as me-
chanical as an impression made by the
actinic rays of the sun on a photographic
plate.
The general principle by which an
idea is preserved is vibratory like all
other phenomena of nature. Every
thought causes vibrations that will con-
tinue to expand and contract in wave
circles, like the waves started by a stone
dropped in a pool of water. Waves
from other thoughts may ·counteract it,
292
Physiology
or it may finally succumb of its own
inanition.
Thought will instantly set in motion
the finest of spiritual magnetism, arid
this motion will be communicated to
the heavier and coarser densities, and
will eventually affect the physical matter
of the body.
Life is not created-it simply IS. All
nature is animate with this force we call
"life." The phenomena of life on this
physical plane, with which we are
chiefly concerned, are produced by the
involution of "energy" into "matter,"
and matter is, itself, an involution of
energy.
But when the stage of matter is
reached in the process of Nature's in-
volution, matter then begins to evolve
forms under the action upon it and
within it. So that growth and life are
293
'The ~<iJ Psychology
the results of a simultaneous integration
of matter and energy. Evolution starts
with the lowest form of matter, and
works upward through refining processes
to serve as a matrix of energy.
The internal secretions constitute and
determine much of the inherited powers
of the individual and their development.
They control physical and mental
growth, and all the metabolic processes
of fundamental importance. They dom-
inate all the vital functions of man.
They co-operate in an intimate relation-
ship which may be compared to an inter-
locking directorate. A derangement of
their functions, causing an insufficiency
of them, an excess or an abnormality up-
sets the entire equilibrium of the body,
with transformed effect upon the mind
and the organs. Blood chemistry of our
294
Physiology
time is a marvel undreamed of a genera-
tion ago.
These achievements are a perfect ex-
ample of accomplished fact contradict-
ing all former prediction and criticism.
One of the greatest advances of modern
medicine has been the study of the pro-
cesses and secretions of the hitherto ob-
scure ductless glands; endocrinology, as
this study is called, has thrown much
valuable light upon certain abnormal
physical conditions about which science
had until now been in the dark. We
now know that most of the freaks of
nature we see on exhibition are such ow-
ing to endocrine disturbance-the dis-
turbance of the ductless glands. The
bearded lady, a victim of pogoniasis; the
victims of obesity and of skeletonization;
of acromegalis, or giantism; of microme-
galia or liliputianism-all such evolu-
295
'Ihe ~w Psychology
tional deviations are due to subnormal-
ities or abnormalities of the chemical ele-
ments which the glands produce and
send into the blood-stream.
These are no mere theories, for they
have been rigorously tested in the lab-
oratories of science. As Sir William
Osler, one of the world's most illustrious
luminaries of knowledge, has said: "For
man's body, too, is a humming hive of
working cells, each with its specific func-
tion, all under central control of the
brain and heart, and all dependent on
materials cal~ed hormones (secreted by
small, even insignificant looking struc-
tures) which lubricate the wheels of
life. For example, remove the thyroid
gland just below the Adam's apple, and
you deprive man of the lubricants which
enable his thought-engines to work. It
is as if you cut off the oil-supply of a
296
Physiology
motor, and gradually the stored acquisi-
tions of his mind cease to be available,
and within a year he sinks into dementia.
The normal processes of the skin cease,
the hair falls, the features bloat, and the
paragon of animals is transformed into
a shapeless caricature of humanity."
These essential lubricators, of which a
number are now known, are called hor-
mones-you will recognize from its der-
ivation how appropriate is the term.
The name is derived from the Greek
verb meaning "to rouse or set in mo-
tion." The name was given by Starling
and Bayliss, two great Englishmen noted
for their research work in endocrinology.
Cretins - dwarfed imbeciles - can be
cured by the administration, internally,
of the thyroid glands of sheep, with truly
miraculous results; because cretinism is
297
'Ihe ~w Psychology
caused by the lack or absence of thyroid
gland secretions.
As an instance of the fascination of
' these studies, consider the conception
that the thyroid played a fundamental
part in the change of sea creatures into
land animals. Feeding the Mexican
axolot.l, a purely aquatic newt, breath-
ing through gills, on thyroid, quickly
changes it into the ambystoma, a terres-
trial salamander, breathing by means of
lungs.
The endocrine glands produce secre-
tions .which enter the blood-stream and
vitally affect the bodily structure and
functions. The pituitary is a small
gland, located near the center of the
head, directly under the third ventricle
of the brain, where it rests in a depres-
sion in the bony floor-plate of the skull.
Its secretions have an important part in
298
Physiology
the mobilizing of carbohydrates, main-
taining blood-pressure, stimulating other
glands, and maintaining the tonicity of
the sympathetic nerve system. Its un-
der, or over, activity during childhood,
will produce marked characteristics in
the body structure, and what concerns
us more, equally marked characteristics
of mental development and function.
The thyroid gland is located at the
frontal base of the neck, extending up-
ward in a sort of semicircle on both
sides, with the parathyroids near the tips.
The thyroid secretion is important in
mobilizing both proteids and carbohy-
drates; it stimulates other glands, helps
resist infections, affects the hair growth,
and influences the organs of digestion
and elimination. It is a strongly deter-
mining factor in the all-around physical
development, and also in the mental
299
'The ~w Psychology
functioning. A well-balanced thyroid
goes a long way toward insuring an ac-
tive, efficient, smoothly co-ordinated
mind and body.
The adrenal glands are located just
above the small of the back. These or-
gans have been called by some writers
,the "decorative glands," since one of
their functions appears to be that of
keeping the pigments of the body in
proper solution and distribution. But
of greater importance is the agency of
the adrenal secretion in other directions.
It contains a most valuable blood-pres-
sure agent; it is a tonic to the sympa-
thetic nerve system, hence to the invol-
untary muscles, heart, arteries, intestines,
and so on; as well as to the perceptive
paths. It responds to certain emotional
excitements by an immediate increase
in volume of secretion, thus increasing
300
/
Physiology
the energy of the whole system, and
preparing it for effective response.
The cerebro-spinal nervous system is
the telephone system of the conscious
mind; it is a very complete wiring sys-
tem for communication from the brain
to every part of the body, especially the
terminals. It is the intelligence depart-
ment of self-conscious man.
The sympathetic nervous system is the
system of the subconscious mind. Be-
hind the stomach, and in front of the
spine, is the center of the system known
as the "Solar Plexus." It is composed
of two masses of brain substance, each
in the shape of a crescent. They sur-
round an artery whose function It IS to
equalize the blood pressure of all the
abdominal organs.
Just as the brain and the voluntary
nervous system constitute the apparatus
301
The ~w Psychology
of self-conscious man, in like manner the
solar plexus and the sympathetic system
comprise the special apparatus of the
subconscious mind.
The function of the sympathetic nerv-
ous system is to maintain the equilibrium
of the body, to act as a balance wheel,
to prevent over or under action of the
cerebro-spinal system. As it is directly
affected by emotional states such as fear,
anger, jealousy or hatred, these may
easily throw out of gear the operation
of the automatic functions of the body.
That is to say, that emotional states such
as joy, fear, anger and hatred may upset
such functions of the body as digestion,
blood circuh:.tion, general nutrition, and
so forth.
"Nerves," and all the unpleasant ex-
periences that follow in the way of bod-
ily discomfort and ill health, are caused
302
Physiology
by negative emotions, such as fear, an-
ger, hatred and the like; they break
down the resistance which has been of-
fered by the various plexii which, when
in normal working order, have a definite
capacity to inhibit the effect of such
emotions.
The sympathetic system is the appara-
tus whose function it is to maintain the
body in a normal and healthy working
order and to replace the wastage due to
ordinary wear and tear, both emotional
and physical. The kind of emotions
which we entertain is therefore of great
importance; if positive, they are con-
structive; if negative, they are destruc-
tive.
Happiness, prosperity and content-
ment are the result of clear thinking and
right action, for the thought precedes
and predetermines the nature of the ac-
303
The :A&.,w Psychology
tion. A little artificial stimulation m
the form of intoxicating liquor may tem-
porarily still the senses and thus serve
to confuse the issue, but as in economics
and mechanics every action is followed
by a reaction, so in human relations
every action is followed by an equal
reaction, and so we have come to
know that the value of things depends
upon the recognition of the value of
persons. Whenever a creed becomes cur-
rent that things are of more importance
than people, programs become fixed
which set the interest of wealth above
the interests of people, this action must
necessarily be followed by a reaction.
But because the opium traffic furnishes
millions of revenue for Englishmen, mil-
lions of Chinese must be sacrificed, and
because the sale and distribution of alco-
hol furnishes million dollar accounts for
304
Physiology
large banks and trust companies, $rno,-
ooo.oo fees for corporation attorneys,
because it makes it possible to lead large
masses of men to the polls for the pur-
pose of voting for political parties which
are both morally and politically bank-
rupt, there are those who would again
inflict this deadly curse upon the citi-
zens of our country.
Dr. Woods Hutchinson tells us that
the death rate for the United States has
fallen in the last three years from 14.2
to 12.3 a thousand, which represents a
saving of over 200,000 lives a year since
the brewers' business was closed down.
"Almost unanimous reports from public
school teachers, school and district
nurses, welfare workers among the poor,
intelligent police chiefs and heads of
charitable organizations, show that
never, in all their experience, has there
305
'Ihe ~w P1ychology
been so striking an improvement in the
feeding, the clothing, the general com-
fort and welfare of school children as
within the last two years."
And yet there are those who favor the
modification of the Volstead act. There
is probably not a single individual in
existence whose thinking processes are
in such an infantile stage of develop-
ment that he does not know that when
a door has been partly opened it requires
but the pressure of the little finger to
push it wide open, so that modification is
but another word for annullment with
all of its physical, mental, moral and
spiritual degradation and disaster, and
all of the sorrow, suffering, infamy,
shame and horror which this most
monstrous curse has inflicted upon suf-
fering humanity.
Experience has decided that any stim-
306
Physiology
ulus applied statedly to the stomach,
which raises its muscular tones above
the point at which it can be sustained
by food and sleep, produces, when it
has passed away, debility-a relaxation
of the overworked organ, proportioned
to its preternatural excitement. The
life-giving power of the stomach falls
of course as much below the tone of
cheerfulness and health, as it was in-
judiciously raised above it. If the ex-
periment be repeated often, it produces
an artificial tone of stomach, essential to
cheerfulness and muscular vigor, entirely
above the power of the regular suste-
nance of nature to sustain, and creates a
vacuum which nothing can fill but the
destructive power which made it; and
when protracted use has made the dif-
ference great between the natural and
this artificial tone, and habit has made
307
'The ~w Psychology
it a second nature, the man is a drunk-
ard, and in ninety-nine instances in a
hundred is irretrievably undone.
Beer has been recommended as a sub-
stitute, and a means of leading back the
captive to health and liberty. But
though it may not create intemperate
habits as soon, it has no power to allay
them. It will even finish what alcohol
has begun, and with this difference only,
that it does not rasp the vital organs with
quite so ·keen a file, and enables the vic-
tim to come down to his grave by a
course somewhat more dilatory, and with
more of the good-natured stupidity of
the idiot and less of the demoniac frenzy
of the madman.
Wine has been prescribed as a means
of decoying the intemperate from the
ways of death. But habit cannot be thus
cheated out of its dominion, nor raven-
308
Physiology
ing appetite be amused down to a sober
and temperate demand. It is not true
that wine will restore the intemperate,
or stay the progress of the disease.
Enough must be taken to screw up na-
ture to the tone of cheerfulness, or she
will cry, "Give," with an importunity
not to be resisted; and long before the
work of death is done, wine will fail
to minister a stimulus of sufficient activ-
ity to rouse the flagging spirits, or will
become acid on the enfeebled stomach,
and whisky and brandy will be called in
to hasten to its consummation the dila-
tory work of self-destruction.
In one of Tolstoi's essays, we find that
the seeing, spiritual being, whose mani-
festation we commonly call conscience,
always points with one end towards right
and with the other towards wrong, and
we do not notice it while we follow the
309
'Ihe ~w Psychology
course it shows: the course from wrong
to right. But one need only do some-
thing contrary to the indication of con-
science, to become ' aware of this spir-
itual being, which then shows how the
animal activity has diverged from the
direction indicated by conscience. And
as a navigator, conscious that he is on
the wrong track, cannot continue to work
the oars, engine, or sails, till he has ad-
justed his course to the indications of the
compass, or has obliterated his conscious-
ness of this divergence-each man who
has felt the duality of his animal activ-
ity and his conscience, can continue his
activity only by adjusting that activity
to the demands of conscience, or by hid-
ing from himself the indications con-
science gives him of the wrongness of
his animal life.
All human life, we may say, consists
310
Physiology
solely of these two activities: (1)
bringing one's activities into harmony
with conscience, or (2) hiding from
one's self the indications of conscience in
order to be able to continue to live as
before.
Some do the first, others the second.
To attain the first there is but one means:
moral enlightenment-the increase of
light in one's self and attention to what
it shows ; for the second-to hide from
one's self the indications of conscience-
there are two means : one external and
the other internal. The external means
consists in occupations that divert one's
attention from the indications given by
conscience; the internal method consists
in darkening conscience itself.
As a man has two ways of avoiding
seeing an· object that is before him:
either by diverting his sight to other,
JII
The ~w Psychology
more striking objects, or by obstructing
the sight of his own eyes-just so a man
can hide from himself the indications
of conscience in two ways: either by the
external method of diverting his atten-
tion to various occupations, cares, amuse-
ments, or games; or by the internal
method of obstructing the organ of at-
tention itself. For people of dull, lim-
ited moral feeling, the external diver-
sions are often quite sufficient to enable
them not to perceive the indications con-
science gives of the wrongness of their
lives. But for morally sensitive people
those means are often insufficient.
The external means do not quite divert
attention from the consciousness of dis-
cord between one's life and the demands
of conscience. This consciousness ham-
pers one's life: and people, in order to
be able to go on living as before, have re-
312
Physiology
course to the reliable, internal method,
which is that of darkening conscience
itself by poisoning the brain with stupe-
fying substances.
One is not living as conscience de-
mands, yet lacks the strength to reshape
one's life in accord with its demands.
The diversions which might distract at-
tention from the consciousness of this
discord are insufficient, or have become
stale, and so-in order to be able to live
on, disregarding the indications con-
science gives of the wrongness of their
life-people stop the activity of the or-
gan through which conscience manifests
itself, as a man by covering his eyes
hides from himself what he does not
wish to see.
Not in the taste, nor in any pleasure,
recreation or mirth they afford, lies the
cause of the world-wide consumption of
313
'The :N!_,w Psychology
opium, wine, and tobacco, but simply in
man's needs to hide from himself the
demands of conscience.
Not only do people stupefy themselves
to stifle their own consciences, but when
they wish to make others commit actions
contrary to conscience, they intentionally
stupefy them-that is, arrange to stupefy
people in order to deprive them of con-
science.
When a fortified place has been cap-
tured, the soldiers do not sack it ang
slay the defenseless old men and chil-
dren, orders are often given to make
them drunk, and then they do what is
expected of them.
Everyone knows people who have
taken to drink in consequence of some
wrongdoing that has tormented their
conscience. Anyone can notice that those
who lead immoral lives are more at-
314
Physz'o!ogy
tracted than others by stupefying sub-
stances. Bands of robbers, or thieves,
cannot live without intoxicants.
In a word, it is impossible to avoid
understanding that the use of stupefiers,
in large or small amounts, occasionally
or regularly, in the higher or lower cir-
cles of society, is evoked by one and the
same cause, the need to stifle the voice
of conscience in order not to be aware
of the discord existing between one's way
of life and the demands of one's con-
science.
In that alone lies the reason of the
widespread use of all stupefying sub-
stances, and among the rest of tobacco-
probably the most generally used and
most harmful.
Any smoker may detect in himself the
definite desire to stupefy himself with
tobacco at certain, specially difficult mo-
315
'The ~w Psychology
ments. I look back at the days when I
used to smoke; when was it that I felt
a special need of tobacco? It was al-
ways at moments when I did not wish to
remember certain things that presented
themselves to my recollection, when I
wished to forget-not to think. I sit
by myself doing nothing and know I
ought to set to work, but don't feel in-
clined to, so I smoke and go on sitting.
I have promised to be at someone's house
by five o'clock, but I have stayed too
long somewhere else; I remember that
I have missed the appointment, but I do
not like to remember it, so I smoke. I
get vexed, and say unpleasant things to
someone, and know I am doing wrong,
and see that I ought to stop, but I want
to give vent to my irritability-so I
smoke and continue to ·be irritable. I
play at cards and lose more than I in-
316
Physiology
tended to risk-so I smoke. I have
placed myself in an awkward pos1t10n,
have acted badly, have made a mistake,
and ought to acknowledge the mess I
am in and thus escape from it, but I do
not like to acknowledge it, so I accuse
others-and smoke. I write something
and am not quite satisfied with what I
have written. I ought to abandon it,
but I wish to finish what I have planned
to do-so I smoke. I dispute, and see
that my opponent and I do not under-
stand, and cannot understand one an-
other, but I wish to express my opinion
so I continue to talk-and I smoke.
Emancipation from this evil will be
an epoch in the life of humanity; and
that epoch seems to be at hand. The
evil is recognized. An alteration has
already taken place in our perception
concerning the use of stupefying sub-
317
'Ihe :lX!_,w Psychology
stances. People have understood the ter-
rible harm of these things, and are be-
ginning to point them out, and this
almost unnoticed alteration in percep-
tion will inevitably bring about the
emancipation of men from the use of
stupefying things-will enable them to
open their eyes to the demands of their
consciences, and they will begin to order
their lives in accord with their percep-
tions.
Physiology has scientifically demon-
strated the connection between the brain
and the mind in the well-known experi-
ments of vivisection performed by physi-
ologists on the brains of living animals-
which experiments defy all contradic-
tion. The most famous among these ex-
periments are those of the French physi-
ologist Flourens, who experiments on
animals whose physical constitution en-
318
(
/
Physt'ology
ables them to endure considerable m-
juries to cranium and brain.
He cut away the upper portions of the
brain, layer by layer, one after another,
and it is not saying too much to assert
that as the layers disappeared one by
one, the mental faculties of the animals
diminished at the same time and even-
tually disappeared altogether.
Thus Flourens succeeded in reducing
fowls to a condition in which every
mental function and every capacity of
receiving sensational impressions or of
performing any conscious action were
completely annihilated, and yet physical
life went on. The animals remained mo-
tionless at any spot in which they were
placed, as though they were in a deep
sleep; they responded to no external
stimulus, and were kept alive by arti-
ficial feeding; they led, as it were, a
319
'The :l\&_,w Psychology
mere vegetable existence. Thus they re-
mained alive for months and years, and
increased in weight and size of the body.
Similar experiments have been suc-
cessfully performed on higher animals,
that is to say, on mammals. "If the
cerebral hemispheres of a mammal are
cut away piecemeal," says Valentin, "the
mental activity descends all the deeper,
the further the quantitative loss extends.
As a rule, when the ventricles are
reached, complete unconsciousness super-
venes." What stronger proof of the con-
nection between mind and brain can
there exist, than that of the anatomist's
scalpel?
320
WHERE TRUTH ABIDES
Truth is within ourselves; it takes no rise
From outward things, whate'er you may believe,
There is an inmost center in us all,
Where Truth abides in fullness; and around,
Wall upon wall, the gross flesh hems it in,
This perfect clear conception-which is Truth.
A baffling and perverting carnal mesh
Blinds it, and makes all error; and, to know
Rather consists in opening out a way
Whence the imprisoned splendor may escape,
Than in effecting entry for a light
Supposed to be without.
-Robert Browning.
The Psychology of ~edicine
Part :fwelve
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF
MEDICINE
T
o the development of radio
communication is largely due
the fillip to the imagination of
science and the dawning of an idea
which a few years ago would have been
considered revolutionary and subversive
of all the established traditions of med-
icme.
"The psychical method has always
played an important, though largely un-
recognized, part in therapeutics. It is
from faith, which buoys up the spirits,
sets the blood flowing more freely, and
the nerves playing their parts without
disturbance, that a large part of all cures
arise. Despondency or -lack of faith will
often sink the stoutest constitution al-
325
The ~w Psychology
most to death's door; faith will enable
a bread pill or a spoonful of clear water
to do almost miracles of healing, when
the best medicines have been given over
in despair. The basis of the entire pro-
fession of medicine is faith in the doctor
and his drugs and his methods."
Charles Richet, professor of physiol-
ogy in the University of Paris, is blaz-
ing the trail for those hardy pioneering
scientists who are now exploring the bor-
derland of the senses. In a recent ad-
dress before the International Congress
of Physiologists in Edinburgh, as quoted
by The Lancet, a leading British medi-
cal journal, Dr. Richet said:
"The thesis which I wish to sustain
and to prove by the experimental method
is that there may be a knowledge of
reality obtained by other means than by
the ordinary channels of the senses.
326
'The Psychology of c:JtCedicine
Everyone knows that the external world
is accessible to us by our senses, by vi-
sion, hearing and touch, and to a less ex-
tent by smell and taste. No other ways
are known. It is the universal opinion
that we can have no other notion of the
reality that surrounds us except through
our five senses, and that any fact must
remain forever unknown unless sound,
touch o'r vision has revealed it to us.
This is the classic and at the same time
popular idea. It is formal and exclusive,
without itself ever having been demon-
strated. To admit that a knowledge of
occurrences can arrive at our conscious-
ness by any other means than those of
the senses is a daring and revolutionary
proceeding, and yet this is the thesis that
I am about to maintain.
"The access to our subconscious intel-
ligence of mysterious vibrations is an
327
'The ~w 'Psychology
unusual phenomenon, but it is a phe-
nomenon which is not in contradiction to
anything," said Dr. Richet. "It is a
new truth, that is all. And this new
truth is wonderfully in agreement with
the amazing notions which modern
physics opens to us. At this moment I
cannot hear any concert in this hall, nor
do you. You might even assert that
there are no musical vibrations here.
What a mistake I If a wireless receiver
were placed here we should all immedi-
ately hear a concert that is taking place
perhaps three miles, or even 100 miles
away. The receiver proves that the vi-
brations are present. Thus it is with
those mysterious paths of consciousness.
They do not reach us, but they are there.
Only a sensitive person, in other words, ·
a receiver, is needed to prove their re-
ality. Therefore, do not hesitate to ac-
328
The Psychology of ~edicine
cept this new fact that unknown vibra-
tions strike an intelligence and bring to
it unexpected knowledge.
"Can physiologists and medical men
assert that they have completed the phys-
iology of the brain; that there is nothing
further to be discovered about it, and
that they have delimited all the modes of
vibration of which it is capable? The
brain is a much more complicated ma-
chine than we are wont to consider it
in our innocence. Why may not this
marvelous machine be sometimes capa-
ble of receiving vibrations which pass
unknown to consciousness?"
Our problem would be more simple,
and the doctors, with their wide knowl-
edge and splendid service, would have
solved the problem long ago, had it been
a purely physical one; but unfortunately
it is a mental problem long before it
329
'The :N:!_,w Psychology
becomes a physical one; as we continue
to exercise our capacity for response we
shall find it necessary to treat our
thoughts and emotions if we are to estab-
lish health upon a firm basis.
For instance, it is commonly recog-
nized that worry or continued negative
emotional excitement will disorganize di-
gestion. When the digestion is normal
the feeling of hunger will stop, will be
inhibited when we have eaten as much
as we need, nor will we feel hunger
again until we actually require food. In
such cases our inhibiting center is work-
ing properly. But if we get dyspeptic,
this inhibiting center has ceased to func-
tion, and we are hungry all the time,
with the consequent tendency to over-
work an already impaired digestive ap-
paratus. Mankind is continually expe-
riencing such small disturbances. They
330
The Psychology of Uteedidne
are strictly local and attract but small
attention at the great center. They come
and go-and properly so-without draw-
ing from the organism as a whole much
consideration. But if the disorder has
grown out of a deep-rooted cause which
cannot easily be removed, disease of a
more serious nature will ensue. Under
such circumstances, by reason of its seri-
ousness and long continuance, the trouble
involves all parts of the organism and
~ay threaten its very life. When it
reaches this point, if the administration
at the grand center is vigorous and de-
termined and wise, the disturbance can-
not long endure; but if there is weak-
ness at that center the whole federation
may go down with a crash.
Dr. Lindlahr says that "Nature Cure
Philosophy presents a rational concept
of evil, its cause and purpose, namely:
331
'The ~w Psychology
that it is brought on by violation of Na-
ture's laws, that it is corrective in its
purpose that it can be overcome only by
compliance with the Law. There is no
suffering, disease or evil of any kind
anywhere unless the law has been tra1-1s-
gressed somewhere by someone."
These transgressions of the law may be
due to ignorance, to indifference, or to
wilfulness and viciousness. The effect
will always be commensurate with the
causes.
The science of natural living and heal-
ing shows clearly that what we call dis-
ease is primarily Nature's effort to elim-
inate morbid matter and to restore the
normal functions of the body; that the
processes of disease are just as orderly
in their way as everything else in Na-
ture; that we must not check or suppress
them, but co-operate with them. Thus
332
'Ihe Psychology of c:Medicine
we con, slowly but laboriously, the all-
important lesson that "obedience to the
law" is the only means of prevention of
disease, and the only cure.
The Fundamental Law of Cure, the
Law of Action, and Reaction, and the
Law of Crisis, as revealed by the Nature
Cure Philosophy, impress upon us the
truth that there is nothing accidental or
arbitrary in the processes of health, dis-
ease and cures; that every changing con-
dition is either in harmony or in dis-
cord with the laws of our being; that
only by complete surrender and obedi-
ence to the law can we master the law,
and attain and maintain perfect physical
health.
In our study of the cause and char-
acter of disease we must endeavor to
begin at the beginning, and that is LIFE
itself; for the processes of health, disease
333
:!'he ~w Psychology
and cure are manifestations of that which
we call life and vitality.
There are two prevalent, but widely
differing conceptions of the nature of
life or vital force: the material and
the vital.
The former looks upon life or vital
force with all its physical, mental and
psychical phenomena as manifestations
of the electric, magnetic and chemical
activities of the physical-material ele-
ments composing the human organism.
From this viewpoint, life is a sort of
"spontaneous combustion," or, as one
·scientist expressed it, a "succession of
fermentations."
This materialistic conception of life,
however, has already become obsolete
among the more advanced biologists as
a result of the discoveries of modern
science, which are fast bridging the
334
I
/
'Ihe Psychology if c%edicine
chasm between the material and the spir-
itual realms of being.
The vital conception of Life or Vital
Force on the other hand, regards it as
the primary force of all forces, coming
from the central source of all power.
This force, which permeates, warms
and animates the entire created universe,
is the expression of the Divine Will, the
Logos, the Word, of the Great Creative
Intelligence. It is this Divine Energy
which sets in motion the whirls in the
ether, the electric corpuscles and ions
that make up the different atoms and
elements of matter.
These corpuscles and ionsy epositive
and negative forms of elecificity. Elec-
tricity is a form of energy. It is intel-
ligent energy; otherwise it could not
move with that unvarying wonderful
precision in the electrons of the atoms
335
'Ihe ~w Psychology
as in the suns and planets of the sidereal
universe.
If this supreme intelligence should
withdraw its energy-the electrical
charges (forms of energy)-and with
it the atoms and elements, the entire
material universe, would disappear in
the flash of a moment.
From this it appears that crude mat-
ter, instead of being the source of life
and of all its complicated mental and
spiritual phenomena is only an expres-
sion of the Life Force, itself a manifes-
tation of the Great Creative Intelligence
which some call God, others Nature, the
Oversoul, Brahma, Prana, etc., each one
according to his understanding.
It is this supreme power and intelli-
gence, acting in and through every
atom, molecule, and cell in the human
body, which is the true healer, this "vis
336
'The Psychology of r:.5tCedicine
medicatrix naturae" which always en-
deavors to repair, to heal, and to restore
the perfect type. All that the physician
can do is to remove obstructions and to
establish normal conditions, within and
about the patient, so that the power
within can do its work to the . best ad-
vantage.
In the final analysis, all things in Na-
ture, from a fleeting thought or emo-
tion to the hardest piece of diamond or
platinum, are modes of motion or vibra-
tion. A few years ago physical science
assumed that an atom was the smallest
imaginable part of a given element of
matter; that although infinitesimally
small, it still represented solid matter.
Now, in the light of better evidence, we
have good reason to believe that there is
no such thing as solid matter; that every
atom is made up of charges of negative
337
The ~w Psychology
and positive electricity acting m and
upon an omnipresent ether; that the dif-
ference between an atom of iron and of
hydrogen, or any other element, consists
solely in the number of electrical charges
or corpuscles it contains, and on the ve-
locity with which these vibrate around
one another.
Thus the atom, which was thought to
be the ultimate particle of solid matter,
is found to be a little universe in itself
in which corpuscles of electricity rotate
or vibrate around one another like the
suns and planets in the sidereal universe.
This explains what we mean when we
say life and matter .are vibratory.
What we call "Inanimate Nature" is
beautiful and orderly because it plays
in tune with the score of the Symphony
of Life. Man alone can play out of
tune. This is his privilege, or his curse,
338
'Ihe Psychology of c5tCedicine
as he chooses, by virtue of his freedom
of choice and action.
We can now better understand the
definitions of health and of disease, given
in the catechism of Nature Cure as fol-
lows:
"Health is normal and harmonious
vibration of the elements and' forces com-
posing the human entity on the physical,
mental, moral, and spiritual planes of
being, in conformity with the construc-
tive principle of Nature applied to in-
dividual life."
"Disease is abnormal or inharmonious
vibration of the elements and forces com-
posing the human entity on one or more
planes of being, in conformity with the
destructive principle of Nature applied
to individual life."
The question naturally arising here is,
"Normal or abnormal vibration with
339
'The ~w Psychology
what?" The answer is that the vibratory
conditions of the organism must be in
harmony with Nature's established har-
monic relations in the physical, mental,
moral, spiritual, and psychical realms
of human life and action.
340
r:Yreental (hemistry
'Part 'Ihirteen
MENTAL CHEMISTRY
C
HEMISTRY is the science
which treats of the intra-atomic
or the intra-molecular changes
which material things undergo under
various influences.
Mental is defined as "of or appertain-
ing to the mind, including intellect, feel-
ing, and will, or the entire rational na-
ture."
Science is knowledge gained and veri-
fied by exact observation and correct
thinking.
Mental chemistry is, therefore, the sci-
ence which treats of the changes which
conditions undergo through the opera-
tions of the mind.
As the transformations which are
brought about in applied chemistry are
343
'The ~w Psychology
the result of the orderly combination
of materials, it follows that mental
chemistry brings about results m a like
manner.
Any conceivable number may be
formed with the arabic numerals r, z, 3,
4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0.
Any conceivable thought may be ex-
pressed with the 26 letters of the alpha-
bet.
Any conceivable thing can be organ-
ized with the 14 elements and always
and only by the proper grouping of elec-
trons into molecules.
When two or more molecules are
grouped a new individuality is created,
and this individuality which has been
called into being possesses characteristics
which are not possessed by either of the
elements which gave it being.
Thus one atom of sodium and one
344
~enta! Chemistry
of chlorine give us salt, and this com-
bination alone can give us salt, and no
other combination of elements can give
us salt, and salt is something very dif-
ferent from either of the elements of
which it is composed.
What is true in the inorganic world
is likewise true in the organic-certain
conscious processes will produce certain
effects, and the result will invariably be
the same. The same thought will al-
ways be followed by the same conse-
quence, and no other thought will serve
the purpose.
This must necessarily be true because
the principle must exist independently
of the organs through which they func-
tion. Light must exist-otherwise there
could be no eye. Sound must exist-
otherwise there could-be no ear. Mind
34-5
The ~w Psychology
must exist-otherwise there could be no
brain.
Mental action is therefore the interac-
tion of the individual upon the Univer-
sal Mind, and as the Universal Mind is
the intelligence which pervades all space
and animates all living things, this men-
tal action and reaction is the law of
causation.
It is the Universal Chemist, but the
principle of causation does not obtain
in the individual mind but in the Uni-
versal Mind. It is not an objective
faculty but a subjective process.
The individual may, however, bring
the power into manifestation and as the
possible combinations of thought are in-
finite, the results are seen in an infinite
variety of conditions and experiences.
Primordial man, naked and bestial,
squatting in gloomy caverns, gnawmg
346
~ental Chemistry
bones, was born, lived, and died rn a
hostile world. His hostility and his
wretchedness arose from his ignorance.
His handmaidens were Hate and Fear.
His sole reliance was his club. He saw
in the beasts, forests, torrents, seas,
clouds, and even in his fellow man, only
enemies. He recognized no ties binding
them one to another or to himself.
Modern man is born to comparative
luxury. Love rocks his cradle and
shields his youth. When he goes forth
to struggle he wields a pencil, not a
club. He relies upon his brain, not his
brawn. He knows the physical as
neither master nor equal, but as a useful
servant. His fellow men and the forces
of Nature are his friends-not his en-
emies.
These tremendous changes, from hate
to love, from fear to confidence, from
347
The ~w Psychology
material strife to mental control, have
been wrought by the slow dawn of Un-
derstanding. In direct proportion as
he understands Cosmic Law is man's lot
enviable or the reverse.
Thought builds organic structures in
animals and men. The protoplasmic
cell desires the light and sends forth its
impulse; this impulse gradually builds
an eye. A species of deer feed in a
country where the leaves grow on high
branches, and the constant reaching for
their favorite food builds cell by cell the
neck of the giraffe. The amphibian rep-
tiles desire to fly in the open air above
the water; they develop wings and be-
come birds.
Experiments with parasites found on
plants indicate that even the lowest or-
der of life makes use of mental chemis-
try. Jacques Loeb, M. D., Ph. D., a
348
Jteental Chemistry
member of the Rockefeller Institute
made the following experiment: "In
order to obtain the material, potted rose
bushes are brought into a room and
placed in front of a closed window. If
the plants are allowed to dry out, the
aphides (parasites), previously wing-
less, change to winged insects. After
the metamorphosis, the insects leave the
plants, fly to the window and then creep
upward on the glass."
It is evident that these tiny insects
found that the plants on which they
had been thriving were dead, and that
they could therefore secure nothing more
to eat and drink from this source. The
only method by which they could save
themselves from starvation was to grow
temporary wings and fly, which they did.
That the brain cells are directly af-
fected by mental pictures, and that the
349
'Ihe ~w Psychology
brain cells in their turn can affect the
entire being, was proven by Prof. El-
mer Gates of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion at Washington. Guinea pigs were
kept in enclosures with certain colors
dominant; dissection showed their brains
to be larger in the color area than those
of the same class of guinea pigs kept
in other enclosures. The perspiration
of men in various mental moods was
analyzed, and the resultant salts experi-
mented with. Those of a man in an
angry state were of an unusual color;
a small portion put on the tongue of a
dog produced evidences of poisoning.
Experiments at Harvard College with
students on the weighing board proved
that the mind moves the blood. When
the student was told to imagine that he
was running a foot race, the board sank
down at the foot, and when a problem in
350
utCental Chemistry
mathematics was being worked the bal-
anced board sank down at the head.
This shows that thought not only
flashes constantly between mind and
mind, with an intensity and swiftness far
transcending electricity, but that it also
builds the structures through which it
operates.
Through the conscious mind we know
ourselves as individuals, and take cog-
nizance of the world about us. The
subconscious mind is the storehouse of
past thoughts.
We can understand the action of the
conscious and subconscious minds by ob-
serving the process by which the child
learns to play the piano. He is taught
how to hold his hands and strike the
keys, but at first he finds it somewhat
difficult to control the movement of his
fingers. He must practice daily, must
351
'Ihe ~w Psychology
concentrate his thoughts upon his fin-
gers, consciously making the right move-
ments. These thoughts, in time, become
subconscious, and the fingers are directed
and controlled in the playing by the sub-
consciousness. In his first months, and
possibly first years of practice, the pupil
can perform only by keeping his con-
scious mind centered upon the work; but
later he can play with ease and at the
same time carry on a conversation with
those about him, because the subcon-
scious has become so thoroughly imbued
with the idea of right movements that it
can direct them without demanding the
attention of the conscious mind.
The subconscious is instinctive desire.
It carries out what is suggested by the
conscious mind. These suggestions it
carries out faithfully, and it is this close
relation between the conscious and sub-
352
e.5tfental (hem£stry
conscious which makes conscious think-
ing so important.
Man's organism is controlled by the
subconscious t h o u g h t ; circulation,
breathing, digestion, and assimilation are
all activities controlled by the subcon-
scious. The subconscious is continually
getting its impulses from the conscious,
and we have only to change our con-
scious thought to get a corresponding
change in the subconscious.
We live in a fathomless sea of plastic
mind substance. This substance is ever
alive and active. It is sensitive to the
highest degree. It takes form accord-
ing to the mental demand. Thought
forms the mold or matrix from which
the substance expresses. Our ideal is the
mold from which our future will
emerge.
The Universe is alive. In order to
353
'Ihe ~w Psychology
express life there must be mind; nothing
can exist without mind. Everything
which exists is some manifestation of
this one basic substance from which and
by which all things have been created
and are continually being recreated. It
is man's capacity to think that makes
him a creator instead of a creature.
All things are the result of the
thought process. Man has accomplished
the seemingly impossible because he has
refused to consider it impossible. By
concentration men have made the con-
nection between the finite and the In-
finite, the limited and the Unlimited,
the visible and the Invisible, the per-
sonal and the Impersonal.
Great musicians have succeeded in
thrilling the world by the creation of
divine rhapsodies. Great inventors have
made the connection and startled the
354
c.Jr[ental Chemistry
world by their wonderful creations.
Great authors, great philosophers, great
scientists have secured thi~ harmony to
such an extent that though their writ-
ings were created hundreds of years ago,
we are just beginning to realize their
truth. Love of music, love of business,
love of creation caused these people to
concentrate, and the ways and means of
materializing their ideals slowly but
surely developed.
Throughout the entire Universe the
law of cause and effect is ever at work.
This law is supreme; here a cause, there
an effect. They can never operate in-
dependently. One is supplementary to
the other. Nature at all times is ~n­
deavoring to establish a perfect equilib-
rium. This is the law of the Universe
and is ever active. Universal harmony
is the goal for which all nature strives.
355
'The ~w Psychology
The entire cosmos moves under this law.
The sun, the moon, the stars are all held
in their respective positions because of
harmony. They travel their orbits, they
appear at certain times in certain places,
and because of the precision of this law,
astronomers are able to tell us where
various stars will appear in a thousand
years. The scientist bases his entire
hypothesis on this law of cause and
effect. Nowhere is it held in dispute ex-
cept in the domain of man. Here we
find people speaking of luck, chance,
accident, and mishap; but is any one of
these possible? Is the Universe a unit?
If so, and there is law and order in one
part, it must extend throughout all parts.
This is a scientific deduction.
Like begets like on every plane of
existence, and while people believe this
more or less vaguely, they refuse to give
356
Ureental Chemistry
it any consideration where they are con-
cerned. This is due to the fact that
heretofore man could never realize how
he set certain causes in motion which
related him with his various experiences.
It is only in the past few years that
a working hypothesis could be formu-
lated to apply this law to man-the goal
of the Universe is harmony. This means
a perfect balance between all things.
Ether fills all interplanetary space.
This more or less metaphysical substance
is the elementary ~asis of all matter. It
is upon this substance that the messages
of the wireless are transmitted through
space.
Thought dropped into this substance
causes vibrations which in turn unite
with similar vibrations and react upon
the thinker. All manifestations are the
357
The :J.{£w Psychology
result of thought-but the thinking is
on different planes.
We have one plane of thought consti-
tuting the animal plane. Here are ac-
tions and interactions which animals
respond to, yet men know nothing of.
Then we have the conscious thought
plane. Here are almost limitless planes
of thought to which man may be re-
sponsive. It is strictly the nature of our
thinking that determines to which plane
we shall respond. On this plane, we
have the thoughts of the ignorant, the
wise, the poor, the wealthy, the sick,
the healthy, the very poor, the very rich,
and so on. The number of thought
planes is infinite, but the point is that
when we think on a definite plane, we
are responsive to thoughts on that plane,
and the effect of the reaction is appar-
ent in our environment.
358
c:JtCental Chemistry
Take for example one who is think-
ing on the thought plane of wealth. He
is inspired with an idea, and the result
is success. It could not be otherwise.
He is thinking on the success plane, and
as like attracts like, his thoughts attract
other similar thoughts, all of which con-
tribute to his success. His receiver is
attuned for success thoughts only, all
other messages fail to reach his con-
sciousness, hence, he knows nothing of
'them; his antennre, as it were, reach into
the Universal Ether and connect with
the ideas by which his plans and ambi-
tions may be realized.
Sit right where you are, place an am-
plifier to your ear, and you may hear
the most beautiful music, or a lecture,
or the latest market reports. What does
this indicate, in addition to the pleasure
derived from the music or the informa-
359
'The ~w Psychology
tion received from the lecture or market
reports?
It indicates first that there must be
some substance sufficiently refined to
carry these vibrations to every part of
the world. Again it indicates that this
substance must 'be sufficiently refined to
penetrate every other substance known
to man. The vibrations must penetrate
wood, brick, stone or steel of any kind.
They must go over, through and under
rivers, mountains, above the earth, under
the earth, everywhere and anywhere.
Again it indicates that time and space
have been annihilated. The instant a
piece of music is broadcasted in Pitts-
burgh or anywhere else, by putting the
proper mechanism to your ear you can
get it as clearly and distinctly as though
you were in the same room. This indi-
cates that these vibrations proceed in
360
~ental Chemistry
every direction; wherever there is an
ear to hear, it may hear.
If then there is a substance so refined
that it will take up the human voice, and
send it in every direction so that every
human being who is equipped with the
proper mechanism may receive the mes-
sage, is it not possible that the same
. substance will carry a thought just as
readily and just as certainly? Most
assuredly. How do we know this? By
experimentation. This is the only way
to be certain of anything. . Try it. Make
the experiment yourself.
Sit right where you are. Select a
subject with which you are fairly famil-
iar. Begin to think. The thoughts will
follow each other in rapid succession.
One thought will suggest another. You
will soon be surprised at some of the
thoughts which have made you a chan-
361
The ~w Psychology
nel of their manifestation. You did not
know that you knew so much about the
subject. You did not know that you
could put them into such beautiful lan-
guage. You marvel at the ease and
rapidity with which the thoughts arrive.
Where do they come from? From the
One Source of all wisdom, all power,
and all understanding. You have been
to the source of all knowledge, for every
thought which has ever been thought is
still in existence, ready and waiting for
someone to attach the .mechanism by
which it can find expression. You can
therefore think the thoughts of every
sage, every artist, every financier, every
captain of industry who ever existed, for
thoughts never die.
Suppose your experiment is not en-
tirely successful; try again. Few of us
362
utCental (hemi'stry
are proud of our first effort at any-
thing. We did not even make a very
great success in trying to walk the first
time we tried. If you try again, remem-
ber that the brain is the organ of the
objective mind, that it is related to the
objective world by the cerebra-spinal
or voluntary nervous system; that this
system of nerves is connected with the
objective world by certain mechanism
or senses. These are the organs with
which we see, hear, feel, taste, and smell.
Now, a thought is a thing which can
neither be seen, nor heard; we cannot
taste it, nor can we smell it, nor can we
feel it. Evidently the five senses can
be of no possible value in trying to re-
ceive a thought. They must therefore
be stilled, because thought is a spiritual
activity and cannot reach us through
363
The ~w Psychology
any material channel. We will then re-
lax both mentally and physically and
send out an S. 0. S. for help and await
the result. The success of our experi-
ment will then depend entirely upon our
ability to become receptive.
Scientists like to make use of the word
Ether in speaking of the substance "I n
which we live and move and have our
being," which is Omnipresent, which
impenetrates everything, and which is
the source of all activity. They like to
use the word Ether because Ether im-
plies something which can be measured
and so far as the materialistic school of
scientists is concerned, anything which
cannot be measured does not exist; but
who can measure an electron? And yet
the electron is the basis for all material
existence, so far as we know at present.
364
Urrental Chemistry
It would require 500,000,000 atoms
placed side by side to measure one linear
inch. A number of atoms equal to
twenty-five million times the population
of the earth must be present in the test
tube for a chemist to detect them in a
chemical trace. About 125 septillions of
atoms are in an inch cube of lead. And
we cannot come anywhere near even
seeing an atom through a microscope I
Yet the atom is as large as our solar
system compared to the electrons of
which it is composed. All atoms are
alike in having one positive central sun
of energy around which one or more
negative charges of energy revolve. The
number of negative electrons each atom
contains determines the nature of the so-
called "element" of which it is a part.
An atom of hydrogen, for instance, is
365
The ~w 'Psychology
supposed to have one negative electron
as a satellite to its positive center. For
this reason chemists accept it as a stand-
ard of atomic weight. The atomic
weight of hydrogen is placed at I.
The diameter of an electron is to the
diameter of the atom as the diameter of
our Earth is to the diameter of the orbit
in which it moves around the sun. More
specifically, it has been determined that
an electron is one-eighteen-thousandth
of the mass of a hydrogen atom.
It is clear therefore that matter is
capable of a degree of refinement al-
most beyond the power of the human
mind to calculate. We have not as yet
been able to analyze this refinement be-
yond the electron, and even in getting
thus far have had to supplement our
physical observation of effects with im-
agination to cover certain gaps.
366
Ureental Chemistry
The building up of Matter from Elec-
trons has been an involuntary process
of individualizing intelligent energy.
Food, water and air are usually con-
sidered to be the three essential elements
necessary to sustain life. This is very
true, but there is something still more
essential. Every time we breathe we
not only fill our lungs with air which
has been charged with magnetism by the
Solar Orb, but we fill ourselves with
Pranic Energy, the breath of life re-
plete with every requirement for mind
and spirit. This life giving spirit is far
more necessary than air, food, or water,
because a man can live for forty days
without food, for three days without
water, and for a few minutes without
air; but he cannot live a single second
without Ether. It is the one prime es-
367
'Ihe ~w Psychology
sential of life, and contains all the essen-
tials of life, so that the process of breath-
ing furnishes not only food for body
building, but food for mind and spirit
as well.
Though an inheritance of acres may be
bequeathed, an inheritance of knowledge
and wisdom cannot. The wealthy man
may pay others for doing his work for
him, but it is impossible to get his think-
ing done for him by another, or to pur-
chase any kind of self-culture.
368
