{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__curtiss___key_of_destiny.pdf","mytitle":"Key Of Destiny","mylang":"de"}
THE
KEY OF DESTINY
Sequel to "The Key to the Universe"
BY
HARRIETTE AUGUSTA CURTISS
AND
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.
founders of "The Order of ristian Mystics"
Authors of "The Curtiss Books"
The ICey to the Universe, The Voice of Isis, The Message of
Aquaria, The Truth About Evolution and the Bible. Corn-
ing World Changes Realms of the Living Dead, Letters
from the Teacher, Vols. i and ii, Gems of Mysti-
cism. The Temple of Silence, The Divine
Mother, The Soundless Sound, etc,
With many diagrams and tables.
Also ten full page plates.
Third and Revised Edition
WASHINGTON, D. C.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO
1928
copyright. 1923
by
F. HOMER Cu&iiss, M.D.
Aii. RIGHTS RIaavID
PviuSd iH th, Usitci Stat,, .1 Åwka
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D.
fl-FOUNDlR O}
Itir (J)ritr of IIirtuttan ßuittra
AN
li 11ittticra r1tttiit Funòatuin.
PREFACE
Since our Key to the Universe gave the spiritual interpretation
of the numbers, Hebrew- letters, Tarot cards and Commandments
from 1 to 10 only, this volume, which covers the numbers from
11 to 22, is a necessary sequel.
In the former volume we endeavored "to show that all personal
experiences arc expressions of the one Great Law manifesting
according to mathematical principles, demonstrating that the un-
foldment of the godlike possibilities inherent in each Soul follows,
step by step, the same order of events that is followed in the evo-
lution of the Cosmos, and that such steps are symbolized by the
fIrst 22 numbers." In this volume we continue that elucidation,
but in addition show why there is a twelve-fold basis for physical
manifestation and hence for ali the allegories and myths which
embody the principles of that manifestation. This we have been
able to do by the discovery of the philosophical reasonand its
geometrical and mathematical proofwhy the zodiac is divided
into twelve and not some other number of parts. This gives the
key to all the ancient allegories and myths which have twelve as
a basis, since they are all founded on the twelve-fold division of
the zodiac.
We have also been able to give a clear, consistent and adequate
interpretation of the Twelve Labors of Hercules which, as far as
we have been able to discover, have never been systematically
interpreted as a wholealthough some attempts have been made to
interpret individual Labors here and there, but not as a part of a
systemduring all the ages that they have been available for
man's inspiration and guidance.
Since the discovery of this twelve-fold manifestation of man's
destiny is the greatest single contribution presented in this volume
we have used it as the basis for the title, The Key of Destiny.
The Authors.
New York City
April 15th. 1919.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
P.,,*ci
CIIAPT1R RICE
I A New Beginning 1
II The Initiate 8
III Reincarnation and Transmutation 16
IV The Eleventh Letter, Koph 23
V The Manifested Universe 29
VI The Twelve Tribes 41
VII The Twelve Disciples 49
VIII The Great Work 58
IX Fruition
X The Twelfth Letter, Lamed 70
XI The Twelve Labors of Hercules . 77
XII The Labors of Hercules (continued) . 88
XIII The Labors of Hercules (continued) . . 94
XIV The Labors of Hercules (continued) . 103
XV The Manifestor of the Universe . 115
XVI The Savior God 119
XVII Necromancy 127
XVIII The Great Deep 133
XIX The Snake Divinity 137
XX The Thirteenth Letter, Mem 143
XXI The Mental Foundation 148
XXII The Fourteenth Letter, Nun 157
XXIII Temperance 164
XXIV Man the Creator 168
XXV The Devil 174
XXVI The Order of the 15 183
XXVII A Symposium of The Order of the 15 191
XXVIII A Symposium of The Order of the 15 (coin.) 199
XXIX The Fifteenth Letter, Samech . . . . 206
TABLE OF CONTENTS vi
XXX Victory 212
XXXI The Sixteenth Letter, Ayrn 219
XXXII The Disposing Intelligence 225
XXXIII The Celestial Hierarchies 233
XXXIV The Seventeenth Letter, Pe 239
XXXV The Second Initiation . . . . 245
XXXVI The Number 18 (continued) 251
XXXVII The Eighteenth Letter, Tzaddi . . 259
XXXVIII The Number of the Sun 264
XXXIX The Nineteenth Letter, Qoph 272
XL The Dispenser of Wisdom 278
XLI The Twentieth Letter, Resh 284
XLII No Number 289
XLIII The Twenty-first Letter, Shin . 296
XLIV The New Jerusalem 302
XLV The New Jerusalem (continued). . . 308
XLVI The Twenty-second Letter, Tau . . . 318
'I
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Dr. F. Homer Curtiss Frontispiece
Eleventh Tarot Card 28
Twelve-fold Division of the Zodiac
Zodiac and Animals 31
Solar System 36
Sculpture of Zodiacal Ring 41
Aztec Calendar Stone
Twelfth Tarot Card 73
Thirteenth Tarot Card 145
Fourteenth Tarot Card
Fifteenth Tarot Card
Sixteenth Tarot Card 221
Diagram of the Hierarchies 233
Seventeenth Tarot Card 243
Eighteenth Tarot Card 260
Nineteenth Tarot Card 273
Twentieth Tarot Card 286
Twenty-first Tarot Card 298
Twenty-second Tarot Card 320
FOREWORD
In this volume we consider man, no longer a weak, sinful puppet
of fate, ignorant of his own possibilities and blind to his place in
evolution and to his great destiny, but man who has now taken
his destiny in his own hands; has grasped the mighty scheme of
the universe and understands that this earth is an evolved theatre
on whose stage he shall work out his evolution according to
mathematical laws.
He now comprehends something of the significance of the
promise made him in the beginning: "Ye shall be as gods, know-
ing good and evil." He now deliberately plucks the golden apples
that grow high up on the Tree of Knowledge and is determined
to eat of them, no longer at the suggestion of the serpent, for he
has reaped the bitter experience both of hastç and of disobedience
to his divine guidance and can no longer be seduced by the senses,
but at the direction of the Lord God who planted the tree in the
midst of the garden.
Moreover, during all the dark night of his past evolution,
through which he has reaped the results of his first mistake, he
has felt the irresistible urge to press on and conquer; has always
heard in the great silences of his Soul the rhythmic cadences of the
wonderful harmony of the spheres and has realized that a universe
so perfect, a harmony so complete and so rich in melodies, so in-
spiring, was not brought forth by chance. He now knows that
man, being the Lord of Creation must have within him the possi-
bility of reaching the same perfection and of striking a still higher
note in this wonderful scale; in fact, he must lead the orchestra.
Again and again when his weary senses have grown faint from
the battle of life he has sunk into the embrace of that solace and
boon given to humanity when it made its great mistake, namely,
"Ye shall surely die." He has realized that without this ex-
perience of rest and recuperation commonly called death he could
never reach the goal of his divine destiny; for at each period of
so-called death he has realized that although the Angel of the
Flaming Sword has shut him out of Eden while in his physical
embodiment, yet the gates of death were but an open sesame
admitting him once more into the Garden of his Soul. And there
he has met the Lord walking in His garden at the close of each
day of earth life and has heard from His lips such words of
encouragement that he has arisen each new morning of earth-
x Foreword
life more full of hope and strength and understanding and
determination to conquer.
In this volume we take up the history of man's evolution at
the point of number 11, after he has passed a full period of effort
(from 1 to 10) and has been born into earth-life like a giant
rising from his sleep, full of renewed vigor for the steep, upward
climb to conscious perfection from the New Beginning of num-
ber 11 to the Ultimate Attainment of number 22.
Tile Authors.
New York City
April 15th. 1919.
The Key of Destiny
THE KEY OF DESTINY
CHAPTER I.
The Number ii. A NEw BEGINNING
1The compound numbers having ten as their foun-
dation must be considered not as fundamental princi-
ples, but as the working out of these principles, each
repetition of the ten marking a new phase of the
principle represented by its unit number."Numbers
and Letters, Pmsi.
"When, therefore, we ascribe certain qualities or
properties to a number, it is on account of a particu-
lar connotation or association of ideas impressed
upon us by reference to universal standards, prin-
ciples and laws."The Kabala of Numbers,
SEPHARIAI, 19.
Having described in The Key to the Universe the spiritual
principles, laws and symbology indicated by the numbers
from one to ten, we herein take up the symbology of the
numbers above ten. These refer to higher cycles of unfold-
ment and evolution than the earlier numbers, yet they include
the fundamental significance of the single numbers. For in-
stance, as man starts out upon his first Cycle of Manifestation
with the number one, so in number 11 he starts out upon
another new and more advanced Cycle of Manifestation, but
with all the experience gained during the previous cycle
stored up as potencies and built into his consciousness as
inherent faculties. -
The first and fundamental meaning of number 11 must
therefore be a New Beginning, but one which depends for
its accomplishment upon the wisdom and efficiency acquired
during the past cycle from one to ten already described.' It
may be compared to the graduate of a professional school
who, when he puts out his "shingle," starts out upon and
eagerly looks forward to a new life of active accomplishment,
1 The Key I. the Ujiver,e. Curtiu.
2 The Key of Destiny
a New Beginning. But his accomplishment will depend upon
how much of his professional training he has already absorbed
and how much of the wisdom he has built into his conscious-
ness and made his own.- Or it may be likened to an ap-
prentice taking his first position as a journeyman, earning
a man's wage and looking forward to building up a business
of his own: his success will depend upon how much skill and
business training he has attained during his cycle of apprell-
ticeship (one to ten). Number 11 in this sense may be called
the Number of Reincarnation; a reincarnation in conscious-
ness if not in body; for we pass through many deaths of
ideas and many births into new consciousness in one physical
life-period. Kabalistically number 11 is called "the begin-
ning of whirling motion," i.e., the turning of the Wheel of
Time beginning a new cycle; again the Number of Reincar-
nation.
Another way in which to consider number 11 is that, just
as number one is the downpouring of the One Life into the
chaotic conditions of the undifferentiated Chaos composed
of the substances cast off during a previous world period,2 so
here in 11 we have another outpouring of the same One Life;
but instead of it being into the circle of an unorganized Chaos
it is now poured into the circle of man's own inherent although
unmanifested powers, for this new circlewhich is the ()
we saw standing beside him in number 10contains not only
his unconquered and undeveloped conditions and emanations,
but also the powers and possibilities gained in the past into
which the One Life is now pouring, splitting the darkness
and separating in his mental world the good from the evil,
the true from the false, the essential from the non-essential.
Hence, 11 is the link between the macrocosm and man, the
microcosm. In reality it is a reflex current of vital life-force
making man one with all that is: a responsible agent; God's
ambassador. Here it is that the Spirit of man becomes one
2 5 Vow, of Ijis. Curtiss. 1$!.
A New Beginning
with the universal Spirit of All Life. Here a new outpouring
of this Spirit can be felt hovering over the watersthe un-
stable conditionsof his own life. And here by the power
and might of the Christ Within he can say, as did the Elohim
to the dark cosmic Chaos in the beginning, "Let there be
Light."
If one who has passed the cyde of ten and is ready to make
a New Beginning and start out on his real life-work seems
to be standing alone and another with like development should
become vitally associated with him through similar attain-
ments, aims and ideals, instead of having the strength and
foie of two individuals, they would have the power of 11,
for between them is the experience of the intervening digits
or the strength of ten. But to attain this there must be a
vital inner union and not a mere intellectual association.
Standing thus shoulder to shoulder they'can start out on a
New Beginning in a higher cycle than either could have at-
tained alone. Thus it was said of Sir Galahad: "His sword
is as the sword of ten because his heart is true."
In a deeper sense, at the point of unfoldment symbolized
by number 11 the true Knight, or the purified and disciplined
personality, has laid bold of the One Life which he now
recognizes as standing beside him (10 + 1.) And it is the
Divine One that becomes his Rod of Power, his mighty invin-
cible Sword "Excalibur," also the spear of Parsifal, with which
he is to fight his way to victory in a new cycle. But it must
be remembered that although the Disciple, like Sir Galahad,
bas won his sword, he has not yet learned to use it. In the
cycle of ten which he has just completed he has gained the
strength and courage to wrench the sword from the rock of
materiality in which it was embedded in the midst of the lake
or waters of illusion,3 le., he must wrest the Sword of the
Spirit from the Foundation Stone of Truth where it rests sur-
rounded by the illusions of the outer world. For only when
3On account of the refloetions around its shores a lake I. used to symboflie
illusion, while a scala generally vied to symbolize humanity, also the astral world.
4 The Key of Destiny
he knows its value and by the power of righteousness grasps
and draws it out does he open a channel through which the
One Life can pour forth for him to use in his new cycle.
This sword represents the same thing as the Spear of Ani-
fortas which in the hands of a pure knight is invincible. But
if through yielding to temptation its possessor allows it to be
seized by Klingsor, the resulting wound will be incurable
until the spear has been recovered by a pure Knight (Parsi-
fal) and has been touched to the wound after the knight has
entered the Castle of the Grail, for the spear is the second 1
of number 11. Thus, although both Parsifal and Galahad
had completed their cycle of ten, they could not manifest it
until they had begun to utilize the new 1 thus attained to heal,
bless and overcome evil in their cycle of 11.
Number 11 is considered by some as an unlucky or evil
number and is called by them the Number of Separation,
Differentiation, the Parting of the Ways, also the Number of
Sin and Repentance. Since it is at this number that the
Disciple must start out upon a new and untried life-cycle and
put his past experience to the test, it may well be called Dif-
ferentiation and Separation, for it is here that he must answer
the call of the Christ, "Come out from among them, and be ye
separate," i.e., step out of the cycle of the first nine digits in
which the mass of humanity is still evolving and prove by his
life that he has built in the experiences of the past cycle,
hence is now a Disciple and can separate himself from it.
Again, since sin is the misapplication or perversion of the
Law, at this step the untried Disciple, unless very true, wise
and valiant, may be wounded with his own magic Spear; yet
because he has entered upon the cycle of number 11 his re-
pentance will be sincere and enduring. Once having entered
the Path at number 11 there is no going back. Even though
the wound may bleed for many years, true repentance will
surely bring healing and renewed strength. Repentance is
not merely sorrow for mistakes, but tunzing around and fac-
ing the other way, turning our backs upon the mistakes of the
A New Beginning 5
past, culling for future use the experience from each event,
but manfully bearing the results and doing our duty, even
though, like Ainfortas, the wound bleeds at every step.
Westcott says of number 11, "This seems to be the type of
a number with an evil reputation among certain peoples."4
While many unthinking people are given to condemning that
which they do not understand, especially anything which im-
poses on them the responsibility for their own thoughts and
actions, among earnest and true-hearted Knights who have
kept their night of vigil prayerfully before the altar of their
own hearts; who have caught a glimpse of the glory of the
Grail as the morning of their new cycle dawns; who have
received the accolade upon the shoulder from the hand of the
Great Initiator in the silence and sacred hush of their mid-
night vigil; who have listened enraptured to the mysterious
choir of angelic voices bidding them go forth and conquer,
to all such number 11 will be as the light of a glorious new day
revealing wonderful vistas of great possibilities.
As to an evil reputation, did not Jesus have an evil reputa-
tion among the rulers of the synagogue? And every true
follower of the Master Jesus who has taken up in earnest
this new life of self mastery must expect to face more or less
of evil reputation; for did not Jesus tell His disciples: "Woe
unto you, when all men shall speak well of your "The
disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect
shall be as his Master,"5 i.e., shall become master of himself.
The number 11 has gained its evil reputation, as do all other
good things, through misinterpretation and misunderstand-
ing. In this case the old kabalistic teachings which contrast
11 with Perfection as expressed in ten, call it evil because it
departs from that Perfection. But they fully understood,
and in their quaint language fully set forth its true signifi-
canoe, i.e., that having reached Perfection in ten, number 11
starts out on a new quest for a greater Perfection in a new
4NumZsers. Wrstco(t. 100.
'St. Luke. VI. 26-40.
6 The Key of Destiny
and greater cycle. Hence they tried to impress the idea that
at this step there may be more or less foreboding of the un-
known as the new and unmanifested cycle looms ahead. When
he lakes the Pilgrim's Staff in hand and starts anew to climb
to greater and unknown heights, the Disciple knows well that
the road leads uphill all the way and is beset with many dan-
gers and temptations, yet he dares all.
The whole Cycle of Necessity through which the Soul must
journey, as expressed in the numbers from 1 to 22, is graphi-
cafly symbolized in Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. On that
Journey every Rest House might be compared to a number
ten where the Pilgrim having successfully conquered the dan-
gers past may rest and refresh himself and be given wise
council and strength for his New Beginning. Number 11 is
the Pilgrim starting afresh on his Journey after his first rest.
Hence well might the Kabalists say of it that it contains within
it the essence of all that is sinful, harmful and imperfect.
Yet it also contains the strength, understanding and experi-
ence that will conquer all that is met with in the new cycle. He
Knows, he Dares, hence can Do, if he has learned sufficient
discretion to Keep Silent; and the inherent strength and
power of will which has enabled him to come thus far will
carry him to the next Rest House.
As the Disciple grasps and begins to use the newly acquired
power of the One Life according to the knowledge and strength
gained, he makes so many mistakes that at first the new life
may seem more inharmonious, difficult and evil than the old.
Hence in number 11 the great lesson is that power is attained
only by use, and attainment is won only through persistence.
In the Hebrew the word for 11 is AcIwd, Osher, Ai, or one
and ten, God and God. Eliphas Levi connects 11 with the
Astral Light which he calls the great Magical Agent in which
all things are reflected. He also calls it mana or man's higher
and lower mind. This idea he founds upon the ability of
man's mind to reach up to the greatest heights or to descend
to the lowest deoths. This idea is correct for at number 11
A New Beginning 7
man has received a new influx of power, and having free-will
must decide whether he will use it for good or evil; again the
two ones standing side by side and representing force. Levi
also calls it the Magical Chain, claiming that wherever two
or more persons stand side by side, united in ideas and lines
of action, they form a magic chain capable of influencing
others.
Apollonius in treating of the hours of Initiation makes ten
the first hour. It is an hour of Joy; the Neophyte has corn-
pleted his Trial of Initiation and has passed its terrible tests,
yet it is also an hour of trial and much depends upon it.
Among the Egyptians they set up the Sphinx as a symbol of
the first hour and called it the Guardian of Esoteric Wisdom.
The human head of the Sphinx at this step says to the Aspirant
for the higher cycle "First acquire the Knowledge"; its bull's
thighs indicate to him "Be strong and patient in thy work";
its lion's paws say to him "Thou must be brave and defend
thyself against every inferior force"; its eagle's wings say
"Thou must will to raise thyself towards the transcendent
regions which thy Soul already approaches." Number 11 is
the second hour and Apollonius calls it the "Abyss of fire
the virtues of the stars close as a crown through the dragons
and the fire (the magnetic chain)." At this step the Disciple
must learn to distinguish the course of the positive and nega-
tive currents of force in his own body, also to distinguish
between good and evil and to choose between them; not so
simple a decision as it sounds.
The Message f Jqi,ana Curtias. 231.2.
CHAPTER II
The Number ii. THE INITIATE
"Figures are symbols of numbers. Numbers are
symbols of Eternal Principles. Principles are un.
changing qualities that belong to Being. They cannot
be weakened or strengthened in their true nature.
but always contain their primal essence."Numbers
and Letters, Psini.
There is an 11 year cycle of the Sun which exemplifies all
that we have said of number 11; for according to the Secret
Wisdom,1 "The Sun is the heart of the Solar World (System)
and its brain is hidden behind the (visible) Sun. Thence,
sensation is radiated into every nerve-center of the great body,
and the waves of life-essence flow into each artery and vein."
Like the heart of man this great solar heart circulates the vital
life-essence--comparable to the blood in manthroughout the
entire solar system, and regularly contracts at every return of
the vital essence to the sun in a rhythmic cadence corresponding
to that of the heart of man. But instead of these rhythmic
heart beats taking place in a little less than a second as they do
in the heart of man, it requires ten years for the solar blood
to circulate through the system and another year, making 11,
for it to pass through its auricle and ventricle, be purified in
the lungs by the Great Breath and be ready again to be sent
out through the arteries of the Cosmos. This is the fixed cycle
of 11 years well known to astronomers, during which the sun-
spots regularly increase in intensity and numbers. "Could the
human heart be made luminous, and the living and throbbing
organ made visible, so as to have it reflected upon a screen....
then everyone would see the sun-spot phenomena reflected
every second."2
Astronomers have also noted that every 11 years the earth
1 TA. SecveI D.cfri.se. Bhavatsicy, VoL 1. DL
VoZ. I. Di. -
The Initiate 9
passes through a specially dense stream of meteors, proving
that the earth receives a special influx of physical natter from
other planets and systems every 11 years, bringing to the
earth materials for a new cycle. Thus it will be seen that we
have an exact proof in nature of our statement that the funda-
mental meaning of number 11 is that of a cydic New Begin-
ning.
The 11th sign of the zodiac is Aquarius, and the kabalistic
value of its name is also 11. It is the Sign of the Son of Man
and its symbol is a water-bearer, a man pouring forth the
Water of Life that the crops for a new season may be fructi-
fled and germinate. As we enter upon this new Aquarian Age
we almost hold our breath in expectation of the mighty un-
foldment which this Great Age will bring forth. Even through
the turmoil of battle, through the smoke and din of bursting
shells and amid the groans of the dying and the lamentations
of the bereaved, we strain our eyes and ears for the first indi-
cations of the glory of the coming of the New Age.
As the Cosmos passes through this sign all that is expressed
in its symbology will be manifested at least in outline. The
Son of Man will indeed come,3 not merely as a sign in the
heavens, but as an embodiment of Divine Love to man, for
the spiritual Water of Life will be poured out in abundance
upon the earth and upon humanity. In fact, if we examine
into all that this term Water of Life means4 we will find that
it has many interpretations, but there are three that are of
fundamental importance. The Son of Man must come out
into manifestation through the three decans or doors of the
sign Aquarius and reach perfection in each. The first door
is already open and through it the Water of Life is being
poured forth in its lowest aspect in the rivers of bloodthe
physical Water of Lifeshed on the battlefields that the earth
may be purged of its lower aspects of selfishness, passion,
greed, envy, hate and personal aggrandizement The second
'See Ths iws .11w. Curtis.,, 137; abo The Jð,s,.ge.I Åquan., Curtis., 450.
'See The Message .1 J,..,i.. Curtis.. 112 sod The Di.t.e M.ther. Curtis.. 53.
10 The Key of Destiny
door is that which opens into the astral and mental worlds
through which the quickening power of the Water of Life
shall pour to germinate and bring to bloom the seeds of an
expanded and illumined consciousness and an opening of the
astral faculties through which man shall see, feel and realize
his oneness with the worlds of life and consciousness above the
physical. The third door is the middle decan or balanced
forces of Aquarius, through which shall pour forth the spirit-
ual aspect of the Water of Life to quicken and unfold man's
true spiritual consciousness. We are now only at the begin-
ning, but ultimately the Water of Life shall pour forth in
all its aspects until each of the three doors stand open wide
and the Sun of Righteousness shall shine from a new heaven
upon a new world. Then from these open doors shall come
forth the King of Kings and Lord of Lords.
Among the Greeks 11 is the number of Zeus, because of the
idea of ever becoming, while among the Scandinavians it is
held sacred to the Valkyries. The 11th of the Buddhistic
meditations is the wind or the Breath of the Spirit. Among
precious stones 11 is represented by jacinth, which we are
told in ev6 forms the 11th foundation stone of the
New Jerusalem. The jacinth is sometimes called the hyacinth
which the Encyclopedia Britannica identifies with the sapphire
or blue corundum, a dark blue stone of a true indigo color.
And it is curious to note that among many exoteric writers
who assign certain gems to the signs of the zodiac, garnets
are carelessly assigned to Aquarius, the 11th sign; and many
of the gems known to the gem trade as hyacinths are only
garnets. Hence it is only natural that in this superficial age
garnets should be assigned to Aquarius instead of the real sap.
phire, a gem which is much rarer and nvre expensive. A
true Aquarian personone who is truly manifesting the force
of that sign, not merely born in itwill have no difficulty in
discovering that there is no affinity between himself and
BXXI. 20.
The Initiate 11
garnets, while were such an one to own and wear a true blue
sapphire the vibrations would be found to be very satisfying
and helpful.
Among trees the aspen and all varieties of pine and cedar
are affinitized to 11. They are the most primitive trees, hence
when portions of the earth which have finished their period of
purification beneath the sea s rise and become ready for vegeta-
tion these trees will be the earliest forms to secure a foothold
and flourish. They are related to number 11 because they start
a new cycle of vegetation.
Among the disciples the 11th is Matthew, and among the
planets the 11th in value is Jupiter, which in this aspect is
called the "King of the spirits of the air" or the Sylphs. The
Sylphs are very shy of, if not distinctly antagonistic to, man
unless he has really reached the point of development mdi-
cated by number 11 and can affinitize with them; then they
become friendly and helpful. Among birds the eagle rising
from earth into a new element is related to number 11.
In the human body number 11 rules the respiratory organs.
Just as the number one is the Breath of Life, so 11 is the
result of the evolution of the Breath of Life through the
digits until it has built up for itself a vehicle with special
organs through which it can manifest in a more definite and
individualized manner in the physical world in a new cyde,
i.e., through the lungs of man. Hence in 11 we see man as
the specialized instrument for the manifestation of the Breath
of Life; for while the animals have lungs they are unable to
use the breath to advance their higher development or reach
into a higher kingdom as can man.
Those who have reached the step symbolized by 11 are
Initiates of the lowest degree, but as yet are untried. They
have passed the number nine (Initiation) and having mastered
the lessons of that step will never again need to experience
exactly the same conditions, yet they have not been proven.
See TA. Vwe of Iii,. Curtis.. 3S7.
12 The Key of Destiny
It is possible for the Initiates to become either black magicians,
Brothers of the Shadow, or true Disciples of the Great White
Lodge. They have learned to govern and control certain forces
within themselves, and have acquired at least a theoretical
knowledge of the possibilities of the new life. This, however,
does not mean that everyone whose name-number is 11 or who
is born in the 11th sign has reached this step and become an
Initiate, for the mere name-number or birth-number of itself
has very little to do with it. In fact such numbers may be
said to bear about the same proportion to this great cycle of
11 as does the cycle of a day and night to the cycle of a zodiacal
sign in heaven, approximately 2,170 years. Remember there
are always cycles within cycles and numbers within numbers.
Each individual must again and again pass through the
experiences represented by the digits. It is even possible
in rare instances for an individual to sweep through the entire
gamut from one to ten in a single incarnation. Such an one
would vibrate first to one number and then to another in rapid
succession. Again, as the cycles of the minute, the hour, the
day, the year and the age each work out their complete ex-
perience and expression one within the other without dashing
or conflict, so is it in the numerical cycles of one's life. The
physical body with its degree of development and its sensa-
tions has its number; the astral body has its number, which
may be quite unlike that of the physical; the mind, both higher
and lower, and the Spirit each have their numbers; and all
these are constantly changing as the Soul advances. Hence the
absurdity of attempting to state the exact degree of unfold-
ment reached by a Soul by a mere computation of the name-
number, especially since the numbers of the higher states are
not known to the personality until the next Great Initiation
has been passed. As well might we hope to find what period
in the age or year was meant from a paper merely dated
Thursday the 11th, with neither month nor year given. It is
useless for students to try to avoid facing themselves and
their creations and conditions or to try to find a short cut to
The Initiate 13
spiritual attainment merely by changing their name to one
with a seemingly more favorable number. The change must be
made within themselves.
People are constantly met who have developed greatly along
certain lines, yet who are very backward along other lines.
Therefore in this domain of numbers and their interpretation
and application the advice given by Pope should be carefully
considered.
"A little learning is a dangerous thing!
Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring;
There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain,
And drinking largely sobers us again."7
As a rule the less we know the more ready we are to spread
abroad the tiny ray of enlightenment we have attained, believ-
ing it to be all-inclusive. Also "Fools rush in where angels
fear to tread." The humanity of this age would reach its
destined height of 11 much more quickly and surely if they
paid less attention to an effort to change and improve condi-
tions in their lives by changing their names or even their
outer conditions and listened more attentively to the Still
Small Voice within, realizing that only the inner change of
unfolding character can really change outer conditions for the
better; for the outer is but a manifestation of the inner.
Therefore when we desire to change our outer conditions, we
must look within and see what thoughts, habits, desires, old
ideas, et cetera, need to be changed crc their outward mani-
festations can change and give us a New Beginning or a new
cydeof 11.
However, the computation of the mere name-number has a
certain value both in helping us to see what tasks lie before us
in this life as well as in the case of a name chosen for a public
career, such as for use on the stage or as a nom de plume in
literature et cetera. In such cases it is well to select a name
whose numerical value is in harmony with the success of the
activity to be entered upon. It is understood that such as.
14 The Key of Destiny
sumed names are applied to persons only in their public work
and do not express either their character or their private life.
Persons in public life are connected in the public mind by
lines of force with certain positions, ideas and conditions
which they are expected to fulfill, yet they have a right to their
own private life in which they are known by their personal
names.
Just so the Soul has a private or Mystery Name by which
it is known in the higher worlds, yet the human or outer
personality has an outer name by which it is known on earth
during each particular incarnation. The Mystery Name, how-
ever, is revealed to the personality only after it has passed a
certain stage of unfoldment or initiation.
On the other hand it must be borne in mind that if one
chooses a name whose meaning he does not strive to express
and live up to, the forces back of the name which work for its
expression will bring disintegration and failure to one who
either cannot or who refuses to express the meaning of that
name.
In our evolution we must climb three mounts, first, the
mount of physical attainment, symbolized in the Bible by Mt.
Sinai in the wilderness, on which we are given the Law;
second, the mount of intellectual attainment or the Mount of
Transfiguration where we walk and are at one with Moses
(the Law) and Elias (the Prophets); the third, the mount of
spiritual attainment or the Mount of Crucifixion where the
angels minister unto us and bring us spiritual power and we
say "It is finished." While we are given a name at the
summit of each of these mounts, only when we stand one
with the Law and the Prophets can we say "I know as I
am known." Between each of these mounts there are deep
valleys, dark cafions and tangled wildernesses to be traversed,
each of which may require many incarnations to cross.
While on this subject it may be well to explain that the
attainment of Mt. Sinai represents the highest pinnacle of
worldly honor, fame, power, position or greatness which the
Tue Initiate 15
Soul has reached, hence the name by which the Soul was
known on earth during that incarnation is the one it usually
assumes while in the astral world after each lesser incar-
nation. For instance a Napoleon when returning to the astral
world after a minor and perhaps somewhat obscure incarna-
tion would not continue to be known by the name used in
that obscure incarnation, but would assume the most famous
name he bad borne, Le., Napoleon. That of course would not
be his spiritual or Mystery Name, merely the name of his
greatest earthly incarnation.
CHAPTER III
The Number ii. REINCARNATION AND TRANSMUTATION
"Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood can-
not inherit the kingdom of God; neither doth corrup-
tion inherit incorruption. Behold, I shew you a
mystery; we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be
changed in a moment..., for this corruptible must
put on incorruption and this mortal must put on im-
mortality.. . . then shall be brought to pass the say-
ing that is written, Death i, swallowed up in vic-
tory."I Corrntlsia,is, XV, 5O-4.
Number 11 as a New Beginning represents the ensouling of
the Divine Ray sent down into physical existence by the
Higher Self upon which it builds up and evolves the various
personalities. The Zohar states this in the following manner.
"In the beginning was the Will of the King (the Absolute),
prior to any other existence. . . . it sketched the forms of all
things that had been concealed but now came into view. And
there went forth a sealed secret, from the head of Am Suph,
a nebulous spark of matter without shape or form." The
Secret Doctrine says: "Every form on earth, and every Speck
(atom) in Space strives in its efforts towards self-formation to
follow the model placed for it in the 'Heavenly an.2
While science recognizes that all forms of life are built up of
living atoms, the occultist goes a step farther and teaches that
the atom itself is but the vehicle of the One Life that pervades
and is inherent in all. The first step in the manifestation of
this ensouling Ray of Spirit (Atma) is its differentiation from
the Absolute. It then builds up and evolves the Higher Self,
with its Spiritual Mind, through a higher and pre-human cycle
of the nine digits until it reaches the ten of its cycle and be-
comes one with its Parent, yet having evolved a vehicle or
1Z.k.r III, 290.
3V.L 1. 205.
16
Reincarnation and Transmutation 17
Soul (Buddhi) through which this Ray (Atma) can manifest
in the higher worlds, the three in oneSpirit, Soul and Spiri-
tual Mind (AtmaBuddhiHigher Manas) constituting
the Higher Self. This point we call its number 10. The
Higher Self then in turn sends down a ray of itself into the
physical world adding a new 1 to the 10, around which it
builds up successive human personalities like successive pearls
on a string. At the death of each personality all that it was
able to manifest of true Soul growth is indrawn by the Divine
Ray, the thread on which the pearls are strung, "the silver
thread which binds you to the Master."
AU the qualities which the Soul has actually been able to
manifest in incarnation remain after death in what is known
as the Permanent Atom in which is impressed the essence of
the experiences of the body of which it has been a part. When
the next human personality is projected, this Permanent Atom
is the nucleus around which the new body is built or is the key-
note by which the tone or vibratory rate is transferred to the
new body. This Permanent Atom is composed of three units,
mental, astral and physical, and is permanent because it is the
focal point in the lower realms for the immortal Ray of Divin-
ity. It also becomes the center through which the spiritual or
superconscious mind reaches the human or rational mind. Thus
at every incarnation the Permanent Atom is the center which
contains all the accumulated experience and wisdom of all
previous incarnations, which the Soul has to start out with
in each incarnation, just as number 11 includes all the power
of the 10 on which it is built.
Many human cycles of 10 are passed through until at last
the human personality becomes so evolved and perfected that
it consciously recognizes the Higher Self as its Father-in-
heaven and does the works of its Father, thus entering into
the great realization of its oneness with the Father. At this
point the Initiate sees the human personality as a naught, a
circle containing unmanifested possibilities. He sees the
Father (the 1) standing at his right hand and there comes to
18 The Key of Ðestinjý
him the realization that within the seeming emptiness of the
little personal self there are all the potencies of the Father.
Then he understands the inner meaning of the command, "Be
ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven
is perfect."3 He can now start out consciously and deter-
minedly upon a new pilgrimage of 11, the Cycle of Transmu-
tation, during which all the potencies of the digits must be
expressed, not only in the higher realms as during the past
cycle, but manifested on earth in the life and character of the
personality, until the completed man (10) becomes more than
man (11). He thus becomes the Pilgrim (10) who takes the
Staff (1) of the One Life in his hand and starts out on a new
cycle of accomplishment in 11. The attainment of this com-
plete manifestation may require many incarnations, for the
Higher Self must build up, evolve, overshadow and guide
many bodies crc it can bring one to the perfection represented
by number ten. When this point is reached the Higher Self
can actually enter into the body of flesh as a stream of Light
or Fire, the first 1 of number 11.
During this cycle of 11 all that has been said4 about the
Dot within the circle and the evolution of the 1 as applied to
the Cosmos and the evolution of the personality, is now re-
peated in man's physical body. For the descent of this Spir-
itual Fire or spark from the Higher Self marks the birth of
the Christ-consciousness in man. For him it is the Word
made flesh. It is God in man, not only in consciousness, but
in action, in creative power. The effect upon the body of
this birth or entrance into physical flesh of the living Fire of
the Christos is that the Fire at once begins to transmute the
mortal flesh into immortal substance. In the ordinary man
what are known in occultism as the "fiery lives" work through
the first five seven-year periods (35) in every incarnation to
build up and perfect man's physical body. From the sixth
seven-year period (35) onward these fiery lives under ordi-
3Sf. M.Stheii' V, 48.
4See Ttse Key to the Oswn-:e. Cuztu. 55.
Reincarnation and Transmutation 19
nary conditions put forth their activities in an opposite way.
In cther words they have reached the curve in the magnet
where the positive activity gradually merges into the negative,
then we say man begins to age. Yet if we bear in mind that
all the time the fiery lives are but the for of the Divine Life,
and that their function is to destroy all that interferes with
the full manifestation of that Higher Life, this turn of the
tide should prove a most important era, wherein man can
consciously lay hold of life that death may be swallowed up
in victory.
In man's early and undeveloped incarnations the death of
the body is a great blessing. Man was turned out of Eden
lest he eat of the Tree of Life and live forever. Back of that
decree was the greatest love and wisdom, for it compelled
him to lay down the undeveloped, unspiritualized body lest it
live forever in its lust and sin and its separation from its
Father-in-heaven. The many stories of physicalimmortality,
such as The Wandering Jew, et cetera, are intended to illus-
trate the horror of continuous life in an unregenerate mortal
body.
When we have really reached number 11 and are ready
consciously to unite with the fiery stream of the Christ-life
we gladly allow it to burn out the dross. All that caáiot
be transmuted is consumed and cast out of the system as are
dead ashes out of a furnace. Hence there is often much
sickness during this period. But if the student will hold fast
to the thought that it is the Fire of the Lord (Law) preparing
a habitation in the body for the Christ, and look upon it as
one would look upon the discomforts of house-cleaning, he
will receive much comfort and understanding. Yet the right
attitude of mind and every precaution known to the highest
and most advanced medical science should be used to assist
the process if necessary; for the ultimate end must be a sound
mind in a sound body.
But we must see to it that a plentiful supply of purified
atoms shall flow in to take the DIace of the old, so that instead
20 The Key of Destiny
of dissolution and death being the result of the consuming
force of the Fire, as in the case of the ordinary mandeath
resulting from too much life instead of a lack of ita con-
stant renewal of the body takes place as this corruption puts
on incorruption. This is facing boldly the Angel with the
Flaming Sword (the fiery lives) which guards the gates of
Eden, Eden being the immortalized and perfected state in
which only a spiritualized body can dwelL
The thing to bear in mind is that from the sixth seven-year
period on to the tenth (from 42 to 70) the activity of the fiery
lives ordinarily destroys the temple. But man must some-
time attain to the knowledge expressed by Jesus when,
referring to these fiery lives, He said: "Destroy this
temple, and in three days I will raise it up," i.e., three divine
periods (3) or nine. On the tenth or perfect day the Christ-man
will have attained victory over the forces of the body, will in
fact have built up a fire body (Nirmanakayc) or one in which
the fiery lives, manifesting now only as "cold flame," dwell
as creators because there is nothing more that requires de-
struction. Life is a manifestation of Fire which is "divine
substance" and in its essence is always creative. It becomes
destructive only when it meets with resistance or opposition
to its manifestation.
Immortality in the flesh is therefore a physical as well as
a metaphysical possibility, but its attainment does not mean
that one who has attained it will have to live on earth forever.
But it does mean that such an one can live on earth in such
a body as long as his work requires a vehide on the physical
plane. When this is no longer necessary the vibratory key-
note of such a body can be raised until it disappears from the
physical and manifests on any higher plane desired.e This
is the "spiritual body" referred to by St. Paul and which,
through lack of understanding, the Christian church teaches
can be attained only in "heaven" after the death of the
St. Jo7sis . 19.
See Ru/ms of th. Lnmg Deed. Curtis,. 239.
Reincarnation and Tran,mtztation 21
physical body. But it cannot be attained merely by passing
through the gates of physical death. Only when, like Jesus,
we have become one with the Father (Higher Self) and can
leave the personality to die upon the cross of matter and can
say, "It is finished," can we attain this spiritual body.
As we said in number this spiritual or Nirznanakaya
body is not a ready-made body which we will inhabit after
we leave our poor worn out and decayed physical body, but
it is a fire-body that is builded slowly and gradually, cell by
cell, within the physical throughout all our incarnations. It
is like gold in a crucible, the fire separates the gold from the
dross. If there be enough gold there need be no death, for the
fire will find only a little dross to consume as it refines the
gold.
This process of transmutation begins from within and works
outward from the heart center of the inner man. From there
it sends out radiations or lines of force which gradually set
up new sub-centers of radiation in various parts, just as does
a degenerate and destructive manifestation of life, as seen in
the cancer, send out its filaments and cells to distant parts of
the body to form new centers of cancerous growth or cell
metastases. And just as the cancer sends out slender radiating
tentacles which insinuate themselves into surrounding tissues
and organs to destroy them, so the fiery lives of the Christ-
force, when directed by the consciousness of the enlightened
number 11 man, manifest in an analogous way, but in a dia-
metrically opposite and constructive manner; for cancer is
but the force of evil (devil) incarnated in the flesh instead of
the Christ. In fact while the fiery lives are the vehicles of the
Christ-life, yet just as the Christ is a positive consuming fire,
so does its opposite expression become the negative consuming
fires of hell. When we see the devil working in the body as
the destroyer we know it is but the negative pole or Deus
inversus. Hence when we correlate with the positive pole
?See The Key I. ike Ueivn-,e. Curtis.. 61.
22 The Key of Destiny
(life-construction-integration) we know that it is naturally
stronger than the negative pole (death-destruction-disintegra-
tion). This is what is meant by the saying "Death is swal-
lowed up in victory."
We must always remember, howeverlest we condemn an-
other, and thus work with the forces of death instead of life
that the individual who is suffering from an organic disease,
even a cancer, is possibly helping to bear a part of the mighty
Karma of mankind rather than exclusively an individual
Karma. Yet such a method of helping to bear the Race
Karma is not a wise one to choose. We can help lift the awful
pall of death and suffering from humanity far more surely and
effectually by lifting up the Christ in our hearts and lives that
all our cells and atoms may be drawn unto Him, than by being
nailed to the cross of suffering and letting the Christ be crud-
fled in our flesh.
The process of transmuting and purifying goes on through-
out every incarnation. In each life some grains of pure gold
are produced, and these are never lost but are added to life
after life, i.e., every cell which the Christ-life has redeemed
becomes immortal and at the next earth life is built into the
new body around the sacred centers, so that little by little we
inhabit a more and more perfect body, until in some life we find
it possible to complete the purification and perfection of all
our interblending bodies, mental, astral and physical. During
our long pilgrimage not one grain of gold is lost, for like
Jesus we must be able to say, "That of all which he bath given
me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the
last day."8 It is these atoms which at the death of the physical
the Angels or the Shining Ones gather up and manipulate
under the karmic law into the final glorified body in which
there is no death, because each molecule and cell has been
purified in the Fire of the Christ and redeemed forevermore.
This is the "Nirmanakaya's humble robe." "Behold I show
you a mystery."
$ St. J,kis. VI. 39.
CHAPTER W
The Number ii. INTRODUCTION TO THE Hinuw LETTERS
"The twenty-two letters which are the foundation
of all things, He arranged upon a sphere with 231
gates, and the sphere may be rotated forward or
backward, whether for good or evil. From the good
comes true pleasure, from the evil naught but tor
ment."Sepher Yetdrah, 18.
"It is generally conceded that the ten numbers and
the twenty-two letters are the centers of reflection
through which the emanations of Unity operate in
the lower worlds, and that these ten numbers and
twenty-two letters are the fundamental principles
which make up or mark out the 32 Paths of Wis-
dom."Numbers and Letters, PEEKE.
The Hebrew alphabet represents the foundation of all things,
each letter being at the same time a number. By various
means of constructing the letters, i.e., by differences in the
shape and size of a letter, its position in a word and by the
addition of dots or Massoretic points, both the meaning and
the numerical value of the letter are modified. A full ex-
planation of these modifications would require a large volume
on the Kabala. But since this is not a book on the Hebrew
alphabet but on numbers, the meaning of the letter and the
Tarot card corresponding to each number is but briefly given
for the sake of completeness.
Briefly then we may say that the twenty-two letters are all
derived from the one letter Yod. This has the numerical value
of both one and ten and is called the Divine Number. It is the
equivalent of the English I. From this source spring three
Mother Letters, Aleph, Mem and Shin, symbolizing air, water
and fire or, considered as three aspects of the one, they stand
for heat, which contains fire, electricity, which contains water
and light which contains air. These Mother Letters, like the
elements they symbolize, are the bringers forth of the mani-
fested universe, yet each brings forth in its own peculiar way.
23
24 The Key of Destiny
For instance, without the Sun-force nothing would grow; with-
out moisture nothing would germinate, and without air neither
fire nor water could bring forth.
Aleph (air) brings forth her children through the at-
mosphere which gives life to all nature through the breath
which animates all forms of life, and preeminently through the
Spirit which is the Breath of Life breathed into the nostrils
of man when he became a living Soul and was given dominion
over all the beasts of the field.
Mem (water) brings forth her children through moisture,
dew, rain and tears, water being as essential as air to all forms
of life.
Shin (fire) is an expression of that Spiritual Fire which is
the basis of all life.
The trinity formed by these Three Mothers brings the One
Life into manifestation on the physical plane (1 +3=4) to
form the foundation of all life, for without air, water and fire
no life can manifest on earth. The Sepher Yetzirah1 says of
them: "The heavens were produced from Fire; the earth
from Water; and the Air from the Spirit is as a reconciler be-
tween the Fire and the Water... . from the fire was made
heat, from the waters was made cold, and from the air was
produced the temperate state, again a mediator between them."
From these three Mother Letters come forth the seven
double letters,2 each embodying the characteristics of one of the
seven sacred planets. And just as the planets each have a
double aspect and influence, a beneficent and a malign, so
these double letters have two aspects or their bard and soft
sounds, which modify the meaning of the words in which they
are used.
There are also twelve simple letters3 which are associated
with the twelve signs of the zodiac. These letters give special
force to the words in which they are used, modified by the
I Page 19.
S Beth. GimeL Daleth, 1Cph. N. Rr,b and Taii.
IThey are lieu. Van. Zain Cheth. Teth. Yod. Lamed. Pun. Sameeb. OEn.
Tzaddi. and Qoob.
introduction to the Hebrew Letters 25
varying power of the double letters in the word, just as the
twelve houses give significance to a horoscope, but modified
by the position of the planets in each house. Hence the twelve
simple letters represent the twelve properties or potencies
which make up the earth's aura, while the seven double letters,
like the seven planets, represent the seven Elohim expressed
through the seven nature notes and the seven colors into
which the one white light (or the yod) is broken up. For as
the planets pass through the zodiac, in each sign there are
awakened definite but varying potencies which, blending with
the force of the ruling planet, send forth a force that is dif-
ferentiated from all the other forces. All these various dif-
ferentiated forces acting together form the sum total of that
which our earth can express, or we might say that only through
the assimilation of the potencies of these forces can the earth
unfold the perfect pattern she is some day destined to express.
And so is it with man. Only when, like the earth, he has
gathered all that the zodiacal forces hold for him can he be
said to be one of the 144,000 or the Elect who were the first
to be sealed.
The three Mothers, like fire, water and air, are the determin-
ing factors in spreading all these forces, hence are the de-
termining causes of all creation; for as we have already said,
only as moisture, heat and air are combined can the seeds in
the earth be germinated. Yet through the planetary forces
and the differentiation of the signs through which the planets
are passing will each seed bring forth after its kind; for there
are no miracles in nature. "God works in a mysterious way
his wonders to perform," yet all is law. The true Mystic is
one who, because he dwells in the "Tabernade of the Most
High," i.e., blends his consciousness with the One Life and
becomes one in mind with the Great Oversoul, can learn to
understand these mysteries. But since there are no miracles
it is through man, made in God's image, that they must be
revealed.
26 The Key of Destiny
We might compare the zodiac and the twenty-two letters to
the switchboard of a mighty wireless station, the letters repre-
senting the operating intelligences, and the three Mothers cor-
responding to the forces coming from the great Central Sun
(the yod) or the avenue through which the power is delivered.
This will help us to understand the influence of the zodiac4
on all things and why it is called the aura of the solar system
in which are contained the potencies of all that shall manifest
in that system.
THE ELEVENTH HEBREW L1?ri, Kaph ()
"He produced Kaph, and referred it to Life; He
crowned it, combined and formed with it Venus in
the Universe, the fourth day in the week, and the left
eye of man."Sepker Yetzirah, 22.
The letter Kaph (or Caph) corresponds to the English letter
K or ch, the sounds of both being similar. It is one of the
seven double letters and is sacred to Venus, the planet of Love,
its two aspects being Divine Love which is God, and human
love through which man can reach God; for if human love be
not degraded it also is divine. Love and life are synonymous
in that it is only love that can produce life. We see these two
terms thus related in the well known passage: "God so loved
the world, that he gave his only begotten Son (also the Sun in
the universe) that whosoever believeth in him (or assimilates
the divine life-force) should not perish, but have everlasting
(that is, spiritual and enduring) life."5
Hieroglyphically Kaph means a hand half closed in the act
of reaching out to grasp, hence it carries with it the idea of
strength and virility. It is also sometimes referred to the palm
of the hand, carrying the idea of more than mere physical
strength, or strength of character attained through reaching
41t 1. not the planets themselves which exert the major inluence, but the
Elohim who rule them and use them as their instruments.
1St. Joke. III. 16.
Introduction to the Hebrew Letters 27
out and grasping opportunities and learning their lessons. The
palm of the hand in its markings indicates the exact point of
development reached by the individual, as well as the possi-
bilities that can be reached during his present incarnation,
through reaching out in strength and virility. For like this
double letter Kaph, in the two hands we have a double power
of reaching and grasping, the palm of one band registering
the development attained, the other registering the point that
can be attained. Hence we may speak of the "hand of Karma,"
for the Great Law as Karma indelibly records the results of
our past lives, in the left hand the mysterious records of the
past experiences which we have built into our character as a
page in the Book of the Concealed Mystery, and in the right
hand the opportunities of the present incarnation, that we may
work out and balance the past and attain to our real possibili-
ties.
Kaph is said to rule over the West or the decline of life,
the karmic harvest or ingathering, i.e., the hand of Karma
stretched out to grasp and demand its due.
Kaph is also sometimes associated with the idea of "Uni-
versal Love," not the mere human love as commonly under-
stood, but that idea of love associated with Jesus, who so loved
the world that He laid down His life for humanity. In this
sense the letter means just that which is meant in The Healing
erT when we say "lay Thy hands upon us in healing love."
For in this sense Kaph symbolizes the bands (powers) of
Jesus stretched out to bless; and if the blessing is rejected,
stretched out upon the cross ultimately to bless through suffer-
ing. Hence we might say Kaph is delighting to love.
Its color is the ruby red of the blood shed for the world for
the remission of sin, also the color of the priestly robes as
the true Priest stands before the altar and stretches out his
bands in blessing over the people.
For It. manifestadon. ire The Vows .1 Iii,i Curti.,. 193.
TSr. The Voice .1 Isis. Curd.,. 341.
28 The Key of Destiny
THE ELEVENTH TAROT CARD.
Strength.
The eleventh card of the Tarot is called Strength. A little
thought will show that this card has the same significance as
the eleventh letter Kaph. This card pictures a young girl dos-
ing the mouth of a lion with her two hands. The symbology
of the lion (Leo) is strength, courage and love or when un.
controlled, animal passion. Yet this card shows woman, the
negative power physically, exerting her positive moral and
spiritual strength to tame the fierceness of passion that it may
manifest as strong all-conquering love.
She is pictured with the sign of balance and life ( ) upon
her head which we considered under number 8 in The Key to
the Universe, denoting that she has taken a definite step in evo-
lution; has mastered the most potent factor of life, i.e., has
transmuted passion into universal love. Hence in the strength
of this all-conquering force she fearlessly doses the mouth
of the lion and makes of a ravenous beast of prey a tame and
loving companion and protector. This is beautifully sym-
bolized by Spencer in the story of Una and the Lion.
She symbolizes the mother power which so tames the lion
that later on the Christ Child that she shall bring forth shall
lead it.
The lesson of this card is that man's true moral strength
lies in the development of the negative aspect of his nature,
i.e., love and compassion. He gains ascendency over the beasts
of the field as well as over himself when through love he doses
their mouths and tames them, instead of using brute strength
to cow or kill them. For we can never gain mastery over
the beasts of the field until we have mastered the beasts within
ourselves.
XI
THE 11TH TAROT CARD
$TRE1%(TH
7*
fl LAFORC
:;.
ZflL5TICE.
Papus MEDIEVAL TYPES Papw
SmitA
MODERN TYPE
St. Gmaui
EGYPTIAN TYPE
THE DIVINE TRINITY WITHIN ITS CYCLE OF MANIFESTATION
TIlE FOUR-FOLD MANIFESTATION OF THE TRINITY, FORMING "THE
JEWEL IN THE LOTUS" OR "THE DIAMOND HEART," THE
GEOMETRICAL REASON FOR THE TWELVE-FOLD
DIVISION OF THE ZODIAC
CHAPTER V.
The Number 12. THE MANIFESTED UNIvazsE.
"Thus Uriel showed me twelve gates open for the
circuit of the chariots of the sun in heaven, from
which the rays of the sun shoot forth."The Book
of Enoch 103.
"As Pythagoras showed, Kosmos was produced not
through or by number, but by geometry, i. e., follow-
ing the proportions of numbers."The Secret Doc-
irine, Blavatsky, 111,461.
The number 12 pertains primarily and fundamentally to the
complete expression or Fruition of the Divine Trinity within
the circle of its manifestation. We therefore call it the Num-
ber of Fruition or the Manifested Universe. This is plainly
indicated by the fact that the original circle of Divine Mani-
festation is marked off into 12 equal divisions by the four-
fold expression of Divinity, the , within it. Since 4 is the
Number of Mundane Manifestation, the cycle of cosmic ex-
pression is not complete until the Divine , has manifested
in a fourfold manner, thus, 3 X 4 = 12.
Also 12 added (1 + 2)=3, showing that the 12 are all vary-
ing manifestations of the Trinity. The necessity of represent-
ing the fourfold manifestation of the Divine within the
() of its manifestation i the fundamental reason for the
twelvefold division of the zodiac and of the cycles of time.
This is also the only satisfactory mathematical and philosophi-
cal answer to the question why, since 10 is the Number of
Completion, the zodiac is divided into 12 and not 10 signs.
It also shows the foundation of the duo-decimal system of
reckoning. As we said in The Key to the Universe: "Herodo-
his tells us that the Egyptians founded a system of a 12 god
theogony. Hence we find in Egypt the duo-decimal system,
or method of reckoning by 12, in common use. And it is to
the use of that system in the construction of the pyramids,
30 The Key of Destiny
to which the origin of the English foot of 12 inches has been
traced. Among the early Races the decimal system, or reckon-
ing by 10, was esoteric and known only to the higher Initiates
among the priesthood."
The twelvef old division may also be looked upon as a three-
fold manifestation of the 4 elemental expressions of the god-
headFire, Air, Water, Earthin the material universe, again
showing that the Divine cannot manifest completely except
in a twelvefold manner. We find this truth corroborated by
Pythagoras in the sacredness he attached to the dodecahedron.
This is a solid figure having 12 equal sides, and approaches
most nearly of all solid figures to the sphere. Hence it is
used to symbolize all forms of created matter; approximate
completeness or the universe as a whole. Pythagoras also
represented the Logos as the Primordial One or number 1,
while matter was represented by number 2. The combination
of the two or the Manifested Universe he naturally repre-
sented by number 12.
Since a 0 contains 360°, when 4 equilateral triangles are
inscribed within it they divide any o into 12 equal parts of
300 each. In the zodiac these divisions are called "signs" and
each is represented by the figure of the fabulous animal which
symbolizes the chief constellation of stars in the sign. The
circle of animal figures is called the zodiac because the word
zodiac means "little animals." Certain exoteric scientists
state that these animal symbols were suggested to the mind
of primitive man by his observing the heavens and seeing in
the constellations the outlines of the animals chosen. But
such a theory is as absurd as that which claims that man was
evolved from the purely animal solely by the mechanical
action of "natural selection" and without the help or influence
of the higher orders of spiritual Beings which were his pro-
genitors.2 For there is nothing in the arrangement of the star-
groups in the constellations which even remotely suggests the
iPage 21.
Zcc "The Origin of Man," The Vows of Ins, Curtiu, 228.
S.
S.
THE
SIGNS
OF
THE
ZODIAC
WITH
THEIR
ANIMALS
AND
SYMBOLS
IN
RELATION
TO
OUR
SUN
AND
ATTENDANT
PLANETS.
The Manifested Universe 31
animals selected. Indeed, the symbols are traced with great
difficulty in the heavens even with the aid of a star map and
a knowledge of what is sought.
If the forms were at all suggested by the configurations of
the star-groups we should expect to find a dipper among the
first symbols chosen. But since this is not the case, Why
were the peculiar animal forms chosen and then applied to
the constellations? Simply because these 12 constellations are
vehicles through which the 7 great Hierarchies of forces pour
forth 12 characteristic streams of force into the solar system.
While there are many other constellations named after ani-
mals, such as the Dragon, Great Bear and Little Bear, Pega-
sus, et cetera, all radiating their characteristic forces, yet they
are not considered as important because they are not directly
within the path or signs of the zodiac.
The animals were chosen because their common and well
known characteristics express most closely the intrinsic prop-
cities of the currents of force poured forth through the con-
stellations. It must be remembered that the early Races, be-
fore their complete immersion in dense physical matter, i.e.,
before they put on "coats of skin," were far more sensitive to
the forces of nature than are the modern, fully materialized
Races. Hence they responded to and recognized the charac-
teristics of the various currents of cosmic force. The secret
of the orderly arrangement and proper designation of these
cosmic currents was explained to their initiated priests by
their Divine Teachers by means of the circle of symbolic
animals. Hence it was from this Divine source that they re-
ceived the wonderful science of the zodiac and not from the
deductions of their own primitive minds. -
Philosophically and spiritually the zodiac is the great Circle
of Manifestation within which the created universe appears.
In fact, it is the 0 with which we began our study of num-
bers, $ but now filled with the actual manifestation of that
-
3 Sc, Tb.. Xv, t. tk. tJ.sksrn. Cud!... 26.
82 The Key of Destiny
which was but potential before the unfoldment of the forces
within the Q; potencies which were fructified by the descent
of the Light and brought forth through evolution within the
womb (o) of the Great Mother. For cosmically the circle
is the Great Deep of the zodiac in which the solar system is
brought forth, as well as the Great Deep of waters whichcov-
ered the earth when it was "without form and void," this tiny
globe being but one of the later numerals brought into being
in due season by the "Spirit of God" moving on the face of the
waters of this Space. The Chaldeans called the cirde of the
zodiac (Space) Ab soo or the Realm of Divine Knowledge,
because it is the Space within which the cosmic system mani-
fests, "that is the dwelling place of all the Intelligent Powers
which invisibly rule the universe."
Our physical Sun, as a vehicle of the Great Light, may be
compared to a candle that was lighted when the Elohim said,
"Let there be Light." Compared to the great Spiritual Zo-
diac, the () in which this candle shines is but as a dot within
that Greater Zodiac. It is the nucleus within the egg of its
system, the manifestor of its Light and life; for the sun is
the focus and distributor through which the One Life is
poured and from which all physical Light and life-force pro-
ceed. The Sun therefore contains the essence of all its attend-
ant planets, each of which, as it unfolds its special nature
and sounds its key-note and manifests its color and number,
expresses one of the cosmic numbers evolved from the mighty
circle of creativeness.
We might compare the Sun to "the Jewel in the Lotus" of
the zodiac, radiating its white Light to each sign. As this
Light reaches the planets they break it up like a prism and each
appropriates and embodies one dominant color-ray. And
while the ray differentiated by each planet is poured out to
all the signs of the zodiac, it is focused in the particular signs
over which its planet rules. It also has greater power in what-
ever sign the planet may be transiting, but is more or less
modified by the dominant color of the sign as well as by the
The Manifested Universe 33
colors of the other planets that may be in that sign. Thus
each sign catches the positive or negative ray of its ruling
planet and acts as a great reflector which sends forth that
color-ray with all the forces into all the creations brought
forth under that sign, but modified or tinged by the character-
istics of the sign through which it passes. The focus into
which all these reflected rays are again gathered up, after
their cycle of differentiation and accomplishment unites them
again into the one white Light.
Each sign contains 3 "doors" or divisions of 100 each
called decanates, each of which is approached by 10 steps and
ruled over by a different planet. Thus the 30° of each sign
signify 3 steps in evolution, for as each sign is the vehicle of
one of the 12 characteristic forces of the universe, at every
100 a new cycle or aspect of that force is encountered.
For instance, each sign has a planet which rules the sign
as a whole, but it also has as sub-rulers the planets which
rule the signs which form the other two members of the same
triplicity. Thus since Aries governs the head it is called the
sign of the Thinker and is ruled by Mars, with the Sun and
Jupiter, rulers of the second and third fiery signs, as sub-
rulers. Its symbolic animal is the ram, hence those born in
this sign will exhibit the general characteristics of that animal
as well as those of Mars. The first 100 are ruled by Mars
whose dear, bright red blends with the purple of the preced-
ing sign (Pisces) producing the dark, angry, purplish red
which is so typical of the most earthly aspect of the animal
nature.* The first 10° therefore express the most pushing
and dominating tendencies of the ram which uses its horns
to force its way through the brambles and brush and to fight
to maintain its leadership, just as the same division of thinkers
use their powers (horns) to overcome all physical obstacles
and maintain their leadership in the practical administration
of affairs as executives, warriors, et cetera.
The third decanate is ruled by Jupiter, but here the red
is darkened by blending with the earth browns of the next
* Sec footnote on page 40.
34 The Key of Destiny
sign (Taurus), hence this decanate expresses the more muddy
and blindly stubborn aspects of the rain. The natives of this
decanate will always try to dominate and lead, but as their
color is more or less clouded they cannot see clearly and have
not the ability wisely or successfully to lead, hence they are
very unreliable, boldly claiming great powers but often unable
to fulfill their claims.
Only in the middle decanate are the forces of the sign
balanced, hence only here does the pure living stream of the
Divine Life-force express in its clear, radiant red, because
illumined by the white Light of its ruler, the Sun. Therefore
this decanate of Aries represents the pure, gentle and inno-
cent aspect of the ram, i.e., the Iamb. This represents "the
Lamb that was slain from the foundation of the world" or
from the beginning of the zodiac, or the Divine Life-force of
the Cosmic Christ which, having obtained the victory over the
lower and more animal expressions of life, pours out or sheds
its purified and illumined life-force (blood) that all the world
(the whole zodiac) may be "bathed in the blood of the Lamb"
and thus be purified and redeemed.
Only in the middle decanate of each sign does its pure color
manifest, the first and last decanates being modified or tinted
by the color of the adjoining sign, while the color of every
other planet as it sweeps over a particular sign, or let us say
reflector or facet of the zodiac, casts its color over that of the
sign's dominant color, thus modifying and changing it in infi-
nite variety much as various colored lights would be modified
when seen through a faintly tinted glass. Thus the zodiac
becomes a mighty kaleidoscope of colors, changing, flashing
and blending in never ending harmony. If we realize that
every color-ray thus flashed into these mighty reflectors has
its own tone and number, hence its special characteristics, we
can gain some conception of the scientific principles underlying
true astrology, as well as a realization of the meaning of the
expression "the music of the spheres."
The Manifested Universe 35
Also each day and night contains 12 hours, each divided
into twice 30 minutes and the minutes into twice 30 seconds.
Astronomically and astrologically there is a lesser and a
greater zodiac. The lesser zodiac, which is usually indicated
when the word is used, is the circular zone or belt of constella-
tions in the heavens through which the earth passes in its
annual revolution about the Sun. This lesser zodiac is the
one upon which Western astrologers base their calculations.
Their calculations are based on the fact that the relations
between the planets and the signs express periodically re-
curring manifestations of cosmic forces which affect man-
kind in characteristic ways. But, since the lesser is but a
more or less limited reflection of the greater, calculations
based upon it can only be general and approximate, as illus-
trated by the many mistaken specific prophecies made by
astrologers concerning the recent world war. They will also
outline the character of the forces definitely influencing only
those who have not evolved beyond the plane of the lesser
zodiac and begun to "rule their stars." For the signs exert
their influences most markedly upon the outer personality
of those born in each, while the planets exert their forces
most strongly upon the Inner Man or Higher Self. This is
why the horoscopes of the spiritually advanced so frequently
fail to give a satisfactory delineation of their character, i.e.,
the chief causative influences in their lives act not upon the
personality but upon the Soul and come not from the lesser
but from the greater zodiac.
The earth requires approximately 1 month to pass through
each of the 12 divisions or signs of the lesser zodiac, hence we
have 12 months in the circle or cycle of the year.
The greater zodiac is the greater belt in the heavens through
which the Sun and its whole system of planets passes in the
cycle of the solar year or Magnum Annus. Since the Sun
completes an arc of approximately 50" of its vast orbit each
year, if we divide the () of 3600 by 50 we obtain roughly the
figures 25,920 as the number of years in one Magnum Annus
36 The Key of Destiny
or solar cycle. Many modern astronomers and astrologers do
not recognize this greater zodiac, but consider the cycle to be
determined merely by the precession of the equinoxes due to
the movement of the pole of the equator around the pole of
the ecliptic, but the teaching herein given is corroborated by
the ancient esoteric wisdom once known and taught by the
ancient Chaldeans and Egyptians4
Instead of passing through each sign of the greater zodiac
in 1 month, as does the earth in the lesser zodiac, the Sun and
its system of planets requires a twelfth part of 25,920 or
approximately 2,160 years to traverse each sign. This period
is called a Day or an Age. Thus we have had the Taurian
Age when the vernal equinox of the Sun appeared in the sign
Taurus, at the close of which occurred the exodus of the
Hebrews from Egypt and during which the Bull or calf was
the object of worship and was represented with the golden disk
of the Sun between its horns ( ' ); the Arian Age, during
which the Ram was worshipped as the symbol of the Sun-god;
the Piscean Age, whose symbol of the Fish was the emblem
of its Great Teacher Jesus, the disciples of whom were all
represented as fishermen and called "fishers of men." And
our solar system has recently entered the Sign Aquarius
or "the Sign of the Son of Man in heaven" referred to in the
New Te.stcnient as the time of the New Dispensation or Age.
In each of these great Ages the solar system enters new
fields in space and encounters rew conditions and new streams
of force. Therefore each Age brings to the planets a new
spiritual and mental, as well as physical, dispensation. Hence
the long predicted and almost universal belief among all peo-
ples of a new manifestation of Divinity at the beginning of
this new Aquarian Age, in the person of a Divine Teacher or
4"It (the sun) Is, moreover, a satellite, snswesing to a gravitational pull from
a greater focal center in the coe6nes of space. The solar system has an orbit,
and, from the viewpoint of Plato. the Sun takes 25,920 years to complete its
revolution..... It i, suggested that the proper motion of the Sun in space is
the ùue cause of the phenomena known as precession..... I see nothing
.gainst it. although I sin aware it is not the argument used by modern astrono-
mrs."K.bal. of Nsusbm. Sepbsrzsl, 164.
Reproduced by permission from The Sun Book, Hazelrigg
The Manifested Universe 37
Avatar who descends into physical manifestation from the
higher realms to become the World Teacher for the Aquarian
Age.5
"Hesiod's explanation that the astronomical Phoenix repre-
sented the great circle of the stars tells us for the first time that
the S. Phinx is the Sign of the Phinia..... This Sun
Phoenix named the great Sun cycle of 25,920 years, and in
America the Maya priests who claimed to have kept all times
from the beginning, also named their Ages by their word for
'Suns' and said we were now well on in the world's third Sun
or Age Our R 0 C K god is named in the Egyptian
and Irish way by Bee-Hives. He wears Twelve Balls or
B E A Ds (Anglican for 'priests'). These named the Twelve
assistants of deity in all ages. John gives the names of these
twelve precious stones as representing the twelve Apostles."6
Thus number 12 stands for and expresses the entire scheme
of manifested creation. The Sun and Moon, the earth and all
the stars of heaven, with the Rulers thereof, each has its ap-
pointed place and definite work to do in bringing into physical
manifestation and completing the Grand Plan, that through it
the Great Law (the Lord God) of Divine Love and Wisdom
may bring forth and perfect Man made in the image of God.
For "He telleth the number of the stars; be calleth them by
their names. Great is our Lord (Law), and of great power:
his understanding is infinite."1
As the Teacher of the 0. C. M. has said: "Just as in the
trifling period of a man's life or of a single day there are
twelve hours, and over these hours there plays the seven-fold
manifestations of our life, each emanation in turn bringing its
influence into the day, the moment and the second to the in-
finitesirnal point within the second, so it is with this Great Law
manifesting in larger and ever wider circles iof manifestation.
This is so familiar that we hear often of the great Clock of
See The Voice of i,i,, Curtu. Chapt. L 'Tbe Doctijee of Avatara; also
TI, Message vi Aqiana, Curtis,, XXXVIII.
0 Jorvis Letters, CbaptcT VI.
7 Ps1,,,i. 147. 4.
38 The Key of Destiny
the Ages with its twelve hours and its seven powers. This
great sidereal clock is often called the zodiac, and each of
the signs of the zodiac is but an hour in this great day-period.
"Like the days in the week and the hours of the day, you
will find upon dose analysis that the influences of these zodi-
acal signs, or, to speak more correctly, the influences of these
Angelic Rulers of the hours of the heavens, manifest just
as distinctively and as perfectly through the periods of the
day as in the greater periods of the year. Moreover, every
one of the so-called planets, or more correctly speaking their
Angelic Rulers, rule over and emphasize those periods of the
day and bring upon the Soul the varying experiences, joys,
temptations and testings which a careful study of the greater
map of the heavens will elucidate and make clear. . . . From
the beginnings of time this great Clock of the Heavens has
marked off its hours, and the Planetary Rulers, the Regents
of the Stars, have passed in grand procession with the torch
of their inimitable illumination through the pathways marked
out. That which is true of the little things of life is equally
true of the Cosmos and we find that through the different
Races of mankind these same planetary configurations have
ruled, hence we find that each of the seven Great Races of
mankind has been the direct outpouring of one of the great
planetary expressions. Now that we understand it, let us
consider the Races of mankind, each Race being the expres-
sion of one of the cosmic emanations called the Planetary Hier-
archies, altho in each Race all the Hierarchies must manifest.
And in each Race the hours, symbolized by the zodiacal
signs, are passed through largely as a Race. When its hour
strikes, or when its day is done, that Race sinks into oblivion
and that portion of the globe upon which it manifested is
either changed and prepared for the new day or it is swept
away, according to the hour or the great day or the period
or the cycle.
"Today we are reaching a time when this great Clock of
the Heavens is pointing to a most important era. The Third
The Manifested Universe 39
Race of mankind was in reality the first physical race. I
speak now of the ancient Lemurians. When its final hour
of dissolution struck, the whole continent of Lemuria sunk
beneath the waves and with it the Race disappeared. But as
the racial hours passed by, certain conditions we will say or a
certain embryonic larva, was deposited in the soul of humanity
in the thought world, in the psychic realms, et ceterawhich
was to be developed and built into the subsequent Races.
"We are now entering the sixth sub-race of the Fifth Great
Race. This is the most bnportant of all the sub-races of the
Fifth, inasmuch as we are now planting the seed of and prepar-
ing for the Sixth Great Race. Very little thought will convince
one that between this Third Race, which was the first race to
materialize or to emerge from the mere astral bodies into the
denser material bodies, and the Sixth Racewhich is the
'third hour' after it completed the triune manifestationthere
must be a very important relation. In other words, on the
Spiral of Evolution the Sixth Race stands directly over the
Third Race. It completes the triangle. It is the other diagonal
side; the lower, more dense, physical, horizontal line of the
triangle being represented by the Fourth Race and the Fifth.
Therefore it is quite reasonable to suppose that as the hour
of the Sixth Great Race is marked out in the heavens there
should gradually come about changes quite as marked as were
the changes from the more ethereal bodies into dense physical
bodies, but these changes will be in the reverse order. In
other words, the more dense physical bodies will gradually
merge into more ethereal bodies, bodies in touch with the
higher ruling spiritual emanations of the Godhead, and a
continent will also emerge from the Great Deep prepared for
a Race such as we have described." -
As we have said elsewhere, "The 12 thrones mentioned in
Revelation are the seats of the rulers of the twelve signs of
the zodiac from which the Disciples or those who have fol-
lowed the Christ and have sounded His key-note and have
come into harmony with the divine Spiritual Sun shall rule
40 The Key of Destiny
the twelve tribes of Israel or the chosen people. Israel does
not mean that the Jewish tribes were the chosen people of the
Lord. It is a symbol of all those who are able to follow their
Divine Guidance, following the divine law symbolized by
Moses, the Law-giver. Hence it refers to any people who
have recognized the Law and are willing to conform their
lives to it."
Nom: Since the seven primary colors are in constant motion and are
ever circling around mankind from the center, and since mankind (the
circumference) is divided into 12 tribes, man receives the influence not
alone of his own parent ray, but of all the other rays as well As the
circling colors pass through each of the 12 houses of the zodiac the
"tribe" afllnitized to each house has its own color and lends its shade of
color to the others, so that to the inner vision the zodiac appears as a
mighty kaleidoscope of heavenly tints,
U 1t.Ifl tht 14 L.
Tjtz SIcN QF TilL ZoDI*.
CHAPTER VL
The Number 12. THE TwEI.vE TRIBES.
"The Old Testament is full of allusions to the
twelve zodiacal signs, and the whole scheme is built
upon itheroes, personages, and events. Thus in
the dream of Joseph, who saw eleven 'Stars' bowing
down to the twelfth, which was hi 'Star,' the Zodiac
is referred to."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, I,
"And he put down the idolatrous priests . . -.
theni also that burned incense unto Baa to the sun,
and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the
hosts of heaven." L...JJ Kings, xxiii, 5.
The zodiac is probably the oldest and most sacred philo-.
sophic conception of the manifestation of the Divine within
His creations of which we have any record. And with good
reason, for its use far antedates the Greeks and Egyptians,
having come down to us through them from the ancient At-
lanteans. For instance, "Whether the origin of the Zodiac
is Aryan or Egyptian, it is still of immense antiquity.
Unless the Science of the Zodiac is admitted to be of the
highest antiquity and universality, bow can we account for
its Signs being traced in its oldest Theogonies? . . . Says
lamblichus: 'The Assyrians have not only preserved the
memorials of seven and twenty myriads of years (270,000
years), as Hipparchus says they have, but likewise of whole
apocatastases and periods of the Seven Rulers of the world.' "
Some of thesej records, dating back as far as 48,000 years be-.
fore the Greek era, have been discovered in recent years
and the configurations of the planets given therein have been
calculated and confirmed as correct by our modern astron-
omers. In fact, the Great Pyramid at Ghizeh was constructed
1 Th. worship was condemned because It bad abeady degenerated Into a ma-
terialized worship of the hysicd planets and stars, instead of the one God mani-
festing through alL
ZT SecveI DocSrme Blavatsky, I, 714-S. See also. Kej to Ske U.uverze.
Curtis,, 20.
£1
42 The Key of Destiny
on such marvelously accurate astronomical calculations that
the main passage leading down to the King's Chamber was
placed at such an angle that the rays from the pole star of
that age shone straight down the passage to rest upon the
sarcophagus in the center of the chamber. Nothing could
more plainly indicate that the ancient Egyptians possessed
a knowledge of the zodiac and planetary influences in many
respects more wonderful than that of the present day, altho
apparently they were without astronomical instruments.
The fundamental idea of number 12 relating to the Mani-
festation of the Trinity within a cycle of expression (man-
vantara) is clearly shown by the fact that in all religions,
whose chief allegory is a symbolic portrayal of the Cycle of the
Sunphysically and also spirituallywe find the Founder
having 12 great labors, 12 sons or surrounding himself with
12 disciples. Thus, not only are there the 12 sons of Jacob
who founded the 12 tribes of.Israel, but there are 12 princes
of Ishmael ' the 12 Olympian deities; the 12 labors of Her-
cules; the 12 gods Consents; the 12 governors of the
Manichean System: the 12 disciples of Jesus; the 12 apostles
of Osiris; the 12 knights of King Arthur and the Round
Table (zodiac); the 12 brothers Arvaus; the 12 Altars of
St. James; the 12 shields of 1Mars; the 12 asses of the Scan-
dinavians; the 12 sacred cushions (seats or signs) on which
the Deity sits in the cosmogony of the Japanese.
There were 12 dimensions to King Solomon's temple, "And
Solomon (the sun) had twelve officers (signs) over all Israel,
which provided victuals for the king and his household: each
man his month in a year made provision."4 Also the 12
precious stones in the breastplate' of the Hebrew High Priest
"were according to the names of the children of Israel, like
$ Nebajoth, edar Adbeel, Mibran. Misbina, Dumab. Mama, Eadar Team,
Jetur, Naphish and kedemah.
41 Kings, Iij. 7.
5 This breastplate consists of 4 rows each containing 3 jewels, thus agreeing
with the 4 triplicitie. of the zodiac. These are engraved with the names of the
tribes and signs as foflows: Judab. sardonyx Issachar, topaz; Zebulon emerald;
Ruben, carbuncle; Simeon, sapphire; Gad, Jasper; Epbraim, ligure; 'I&m..eh,
wte Benjamin. amethyst; Dan, cbrysohte; Asher, onyx; Naptbaii, bcryL
The Twelve Tribes 43
the engravings of a signet," i.e., the engraved symbol of the
zodiacal sign. They were also carved "upon the 12 wings
of the two cherubim above the mercy seat in the tabernacle,
and also on the Chair of Peter in the can.7
In the Brahmanical zodiac the signs are all presided over
and dedicated to one of the 12 Great Gods. i.e., Aries to
Vishnu, Taurus to Yania, Gemini to Pavana, Cancer to Surya,
Leo to Soma, Virgo to Kartikeid, Libra to Kouvem, Scorpio
to Kaina, Sagittarius to Ganesa, Capricorn to Poulhor, Aqua..
rius to Indra, and Pisces to Agni. "These 12 reappear in
the Hindu tales, sometimes in dark, sometimes in lustrous
forms, as the 12 hours of the day or night, or the 12 moons of
the lunar year."8
In the Hebrew allegory we find the Trinity of Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob expressed and "peopling the whole earth"
or the circle, through the 12 sons of Jacob. This allegory
correctly indicates the divine origin of all the Races of man-
kind and obviously does not refer to the historical origin
of the Hebrew nation, for, as is well known, there were
many nations with far higher civilizations than the Hebrews
long before, as well as at the time of, the beginnings of that
nation. Hence even subsequent mankind did not all spring
from the Hebrew tribes, as was commonly taught before
the days of accurate historical research. The allegory was
intended to show that from the beginning there have always
been 12 types of cosmic influence manifesting in humanity,
each type expressing one of the 12 aspects of the Spiritual
Sun reflected in and through the zodiac. It also symbolizes
that humanity has evolved through its various cycles of tin-
foidment by assimilating these zodiacal influences--the cos-
mic life-force, the symbolic "blood of our father Jacob" or
the mystic blood of the Christthrough and because of which
the whole universe must ultimately be redeemed and obtain
oneness with its Divine Source.
$ Ero&is. XXXIX. 14. T law U,ivriled, BIaVZt,1C7, ii, 25.
S Mythology ,f the 4,yao Natwiu. Cox. 98.
44 The Key of Destiny
As one writer expresses it: "In this allegory is given a
minute description of the twelve signs of the Zodiac and
the divisional houses of the horoscope, the astrological im-
port of which becomes evident in the etymology of the central
character. . . . In other words, ab, first or father, and ram,
elevation. Aries the ram is the first division in this Zodiac of
twelve signs or tribes, representing the eastern elevation.
Hence, according to the Bible, Abram came from the East.
Mystically this takes us back to the point, the be-
ginning of manifestation, or the projection of the Christ-
Spirit and its twelve differentiations or subsisting intelligences,
upon the plane of physical existence. . . . Now the word
Father, as qualifying the dignity of Abraham, has reference
to the sidereal godhead as applied to Saturn . . . 'Our Father
which art in heaven' was a direct prayer to this paternal prin-
ciple, and for this reason Christ (Sun) is expressly denom-
inated as a Son of Abraham or Son of the Father, because
the Sun is the center of a system about which Saturn de-
scribes an encompassing circle."9
These zodiacal forces, however, must not be regarded as
having' the compelling power of fate, but as powers furnished
man for use in his great pilgrimage through the lower worlds
toward his Father's house, the perfect mastery of each influ-
ence constituting one of his 12 great labors, as will be shown
in detail in subsequent chapters. The same meaning is indi-
cated when Elijah cast his mantle upon Elisha whom he saw
ploughing with 12 yoke of oxen.'0 This symbolized that
Elisha had mastered, had harnessed and was using all the
powers of the zodiac to do his ploughing or to accomplish
his mission on earth, showing that he was then ready to
receive the mantle of power for the new cycle which fol-
lowed the old cycle closed by the passing of Elijah.
As we have said elsewhere:" "We are told that 'Moses was
rz.. s n.å. U&i. u-is.
101 Kwgs. XIX. 19.
"See Ths Mnuge .1 Jq..na, Curtlu 325-336.
The Twelve Tribes 45
an hundred and twenty years old when he died: his eye was
not dim, nor his natural force abated.' Th figures 120 show
plainly that ere we bury our Law Giver he must have taught
us the wisdom of a completed expression of the Divine Law
as symbolized by a complete multiple of 12, lOX 12=120.
When the followers of the Law have reached the point in
their development where they can be taught directly through
intuition (tuition from within) and inspiration, they have
reached the symbolic Jordan, but to cross this mysterious
river they must have a new leader. For even though Moses
was divinely appointed for his work, when that work was
accomplished another divinely appointed one is ready to take
us the next step onward. 'When the pupil is ready the
Teacher appears."
"Twelve men were selected by Joshua, one from each tribe,
each to take a stone out of the bed of Jordan with which to
erect a memorial. This refers to the complete consecration
of all our faculties (tribes) with which we must find and
take out of the bed of Jordan, ou of the very spot where the
Ark rested, the twelve stones for our memorial."
"The gathering of these twelve stones while consisting of
spiritual experiences will nevertheless make its mark in the
foundation of our character. They will not consist of great
physical or psychic events which all our friends and neighbors
can see and appreciate, for we pass over Jordan in spiritual
consciousness. Hence it is usdess to try to tell anyone of it
who has not bad a similar experience, and much talking of it
wastes its force. The only way we can truly testify to having
passed over is by the presence of the stones of truth we have
brought with us from the midst of the river and used to build a
cairn or a sacred testimonial in our character which shall be
so solid and firm and fundamental that it is like the ever-
lasting rocks on which the earth's crust is laid. For no
matter how much philosophy we have grasped; no matter
if we have sat at the feet of a Masteij and been taught from
his lips; no matter if our psychic faculties are developed
46 The Key of Destiny
and we can speak with the tongues of men and angels, unless
our lives show evidence of a grÇater poise, common sense,
patience and a consideration for others, and unless we have
that 'charity,' or that love which is more than love as it is
generally understood, we have not gathered ouii twelve stones
from Jordan and built our memorial."
"It is in the little every-day affairs that we must prove that
our house is built upon the rock. Long before the winds blow
and the rain descends and the floods beat upon our house we
will know and most of our acquaintances will know if we have
not built upon our twelve stones; for at every little disturb-
ance we go to pieces or grow discouraged; cannot bear dis-
approval; must be flattered and admired; in short, demand and
suffer acutely if we do not receive great consideration from
others. But having gathered our twelve stones and built our
memorial upon them we are ready to give all the glory of the
achievement to the Lord whose power enabled us to cross over
dry shod. Then when our children or our friends ask, What
mean these stones? we can answer that they are testimonials
that we have passed over Jordan dry shod, for the Lord dried
up the waters from before us 'That all the people of the
earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty."
"That the 12 sons of Jacob refer to the cyde of the Sun
passing through the 12 signs of the zodiac is evidenced by
the fact that the banners carried by the tribes bore the sym-
bols of their respective zodiacal signs; and is further evi-
denced by the forecast of 'that which shall befall you in the
last days' given by the dying Jacob to his sons, ' each forecast
being a description of the characteristics of the sign indicated.
To emphasize this point, and even at the risk of some repeti-
tion, we quote from what we have said elsewhere on this
subject'3
"As Israelmeaning soldier, champion or Power of God.
Jacob summons to his death-bed his 12 sons who are to suc-
12 G.i,esis. XL. 1.
"Sec TA, Muzage .1 4wua. Curti.i, 88.
The Twelve Tribes 47
ceed him. He blesses them and prophetically assigns to each
his place and work in the age then dawning. Symbolicallý
the 12 sons of Jacob, the 12 disciples of Jesus and the 12
months in the cycle of the year refer to the 12 signs of the
zodiac which rule the several months, sons and disciples. At
the beginning of each Age these 12 sons become the sons of
'the man who has prevailed' and are blessed by him and are
sent forth. Jesus also called His 12 together and blessed them
and gave to each his work. When we attain this point in our
individual ongoing we am no longer ruled by the signs, but
call or gather their forces together, for now we are able to
bless and direct and guide them toward the fulfillment of the
Divine Plan."
"The 12 tribes of Israel are therefore the 12 aspects of
the 'Power of God' which are sent forth to accomplish their
ultimate work in evolution in each Age; the Power which
draws upward all things that are down and assists all things
that are in the heavens to descend into manifestation on
earth in glory. The physical manifestation and embodiment
of this Power is the physical Sun, but its human embodiment
is the awakened Soul who can grasp the end from the be-
ginning and work with thar end 1in view."
"The New Age will have 12 leaders and 12 seats, all in
their true place around the Sun. Only when each of the 12
has lifted up its banner and has reflected the rays of Divine
Truth so brightly that at least a number who belong under that
banner will gather together and learn from the leader of their
tribe the golden precepts of understanding of the great Ladder
of Life (evolution) ; only when each has taken the very stones
in his path, i.e., the hard hearts, the misunderstandings and
cruelties of life, and out of them has begun to build a cairn of
sacred memory consecrated to the God of Godsthe mystic
meaning of the 12 stones of the Druid sacred circleso that
the 12 cairns shall all be represented in the circle; only as
each learns that co-operation and brotherhood means each Soul
worshiping with his whole heart and giving of his life and sub..
48 The Key of Destiny
stance in his own place and under his own banner, all singing
together a paean of praise and adoration to the one Central
Sun, only then can the Great Teacher descend into objective
manifestation among men."
"Today,14 each of the 12 tribes has heard the command
of the Great Law: Go forth and gather out of thy tribe the
Children of the Lord (those who have fulfilled the Law)
who have not bowed the knee to Baal and who have not re-
ived the mark of the Beast in their foreheads nor in their
hands! Not only are all the nations of the world standing
today before the judgment scat of the ages, but each nation,
nay, each individual, must consciously or unconsciously re-
spond to the force that is today drawing them to the center
of all Beingthe center of the circleand in that drawing
each is passing through a mighty testing. The seal placed
by the angel on the foreheads of the choser ones is the light
of understanding which shines in the eyes of every one who
has found his or her true place and tribe."
"The New Jerusalem which St. John saw when he was led
to the mountain by the angel (the mountain symbolizes a
higher condition of consciousness, a wider view), had the
shape of a cube with 12 gates and at the gates 12 angels and
the names written on the gates were the names of the 12 tribes
of Israel. On the East, the North, the South and the West
were three gates. The wall of the city had 12 foundations, 12
gates garnished witlz 12 precious stones, representing the 12
Patriarchs (sons of Jacob) etc."
liWgitte,, in 1Q17.
t "4slrokgj It, Teachings and Ethics," C. Aq. Libra, 238. We recommend this
as one of the scat works o astrology in a single volume.
CHAPTER VII.
The Number 12. THE TwvE DlscxrrÆs.
"That ye may eat and drink at my table in my
kingdom, and sit on twelve thrones judging the
twelve tribes of IsraeL"St. Luke, XXIII 30.
"AU systems of religious mysticism are based on
numerals."Lcis Unveiled, Iflavatsky, II, 407.
All great religions are fundamentally allegorical expressions
of the universal Sun Myth. That is, they are composed of
allegories and parables which reveal the nature and activities
of the Spiritual Sun in the spiritual life and unfoldment of
man. And "as above, so below" these activities and stages
of unfoldment correspond to the activities of the physical
Sun in nature during the cycle of the 12 months. All peoples,
therefore, may be considered as either unconscious or con-
scious Sun or fire (a derivative of the Sun) worshipers, usually
the Spiritual Sun but sometimes the physical Sun.
This is evidenced by the constant connection of the Founder
of the religion with the Sun, light and fire; for as the physical
Sun lights, wanns and vitalizes all nature, so the Spiritual
Sun illumines the mind, warms the heart and quickens the
spiritual growth of those who assimilate and respond to its
rays. To emphasize this point we quote the following from
among the many references with which the Christian Scrip-
tures are filled. "And Mount Sinai was altogether on a
smoke, because the Lord descended upon it in fire?' (Exodus,
XIX, 18.) And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him
in a flame of fire." (Exodus, III, 2.) "And the fire of the
Lord burnt among them and consumed them." (Numbers,
XI.) "And the Lord spaker unto you out of the midst of the
fire:.. . For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire?' (Deut.,
IV, 12-24.) "In him was life; and the life was the light of
men." (John, I. 4.) "I am the light of the world: he
50 The Key of Destiny
that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have
the light of life." (John, VIII, 12.) "This then is the message
which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God
is light." (I John, I, 5.) "And his face did shine as the sun,
and his raiment was white as the light" (Matthew, XVII,
2.) "At midday, 0 king, I saw in the way a light from heaven,
above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me."
(Acts, XXVII, 13.) "And the city had no need of the sun,
neither of the moon to shine in it: for the glory of God did
lighten it, and the Lord is the light thereof." (Rev.. XXI, 23.)
With such overwhelming evidence at hand no argument is
necessary.
Great prominence is also given to the zodiac and the prin-
ciples deduced therefrom. For instance, at the time of Job's
initiation he was asked by the Great Initiator: "Canst thou
bind the sweet influences of the Pleiades, or loose the bands
of Orion? Canst thou bring forth the Mazzaroth (the 12
signs of the zodiac) in his season? or canst thou guide Arc.
turus with his sons? Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven?"
(Job, XXXVIII 31-33.) The definite identification of the
sons of Jacob. with the 12 signs of the zodiac by their father
has already been mentioned.1
In the New Testament the triune manifestation of the Spirit-
ual Sun in its zodiac is represented by the Father, Son and
Holy Ghost focused in the Sun of Righteousness in the midst
of his 12 disciples.2 That these 12 were directly related to
the 12 signs of the zodiac is sufficiently shown by their con-
nection with the 12 tribes and the 12 thrones. "And Jesus
said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That ye which have
followed me (i.e., the sun's representative) . . . shall sit upon
12 thrones, judging the 12 tribes of Israel." (Matthew, XIX,
28.) "That we may eat and drink at my table (the of
the zodiac) in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the
1 Page 46.
2 Peter; the twin. James and John Ions of Zebedee PbiU!p; Bartholomew;
Thomas; Matthew also called Levi; james, son of AipLeus; madden.; Simon
the Cananite: Anfrew. and Judas Ticariot.
The Twelve Disciples 51
12 tribes of Israel" (Luke, XXII, 30.) That the 12 disciples
are to be regarded in the same light as the groups of 12 men-
tioned in the allegories of other religions and Sun myths, is
now generally admitted by the foremost Biblical scholars.
As expresset by one authority: "On the face of all the gos-
pels alike, the choosing of the Twelve Apostles is an unhis-
torical narrative; and in. the documents from which all scien-
tific study of Christian origins must proceedthe Epistles ot
Paulthere is no evidence of the existence of such a body.
In only one sentence is it mentioned, and that is demonstrablý
part of a late interpolation, whatever view we may take of
the original authenticity of the Epistles... Paul then knew
nothing of a 'twelve.' "
"Reference may be made, however, to the twelve zodiacal
signs as representatives of the Twelve Apostles of which King
Arthur and the Round Table is but another versionas merely
a figurative method of typifying the Twelve as a fundamental
law of psychic geometry. Hereby is sought to establish the
truth that every Circle of Being includes twelve particular
points of spiritual radiation or magnetic departures, whereby
a change in the involutionary outbreathing becomes a vibratory
foil to its polar opposite or evolutionary inbreathing. As an
illustration, observe the annual solar polarities: the Sun,
though cognate in function with Universal Center, perforce
contacts twelve distinct points of coalescence with the cosmic
energies in order to complete and individualize the incidents
essential to the successive chapters in its revolution. And as
Hercules performed his Twelve Labors, so must the steps
of initiation include the duodenary."4
Being the representative of the Spiritual Sun, the Lght
Bearer of every age naturally drew around himself 12 repre-
sentatives through whom his Light could shine forth or be
expressed in 12 phases to the peoples to whom He came, just
as the Sun is reflected in its 12 disciples or signs of the zodiac.
* CkthIf.,iity a,,d Mytk.logj. Robertson. 341.2.
4Tkc Sv Book. H*zelrigg. 119.
52 The Key of Destiny
Therefore, no matter what 1scholarship and scientific research
may determine as to the historic actuality of the 12 disciples
of Jesus, the symbol is forever true, both cosmicly and in the
individual life of every Soul who is striving to manifest the
universal Christ-light within the circle of his aura and en-
vironment.
In the Pistis Sophia we are told of a mystic transfiguration
of Jesus: "It came to pass, therefore, in the 12th year, that
the disciples were assembled with the Master on the Mount
of Olives . . . when, at sunrise, they beheld a great light-
stream pouring over Him. . . and in it the Master soared, to
heaven.. . On the 9th hour of the morrow they saw Jesus
descending in infinite light. . . He may speak to human kind
and reveal all mysteries, but first of all to the Twelve. For
the Twelve are His order, whom He bath chosen from the
beginning. . . He chose 12 powers, receiving them from the
hands of the 12 Saviors of the Light-treasure . . . that
through them the whole world might be saved. . . For from
the 12 'tribes' He chose 12 disciples, and through them He
spoke to every 'tribe.' "
Even though the 12 Apostles of the Patriarch was a well-
known Jewish institution long before and long after the days
of Jesus, we are not therefore to conclude that the 12 disciples
are a mythical continuation of that ancient Jewish custom.
For the fundamental symbology of number 12as we have
shown in the previous chapterscompels us to seek for a
far deeper reason. And it is only by regarding Jesus as an-
other manifestation or incarnation of the Spiritual Sunthe
Dot within the circle of a new cyclethat the great dis-
crepancies and contradictions in the gospel narratives can
be reconciled and the problem solved.
The 12 was a symbol necessarily used by every Light Bearer,
not to copy some older expression of cosmic truth but to
illustrate the 12 aspects of the cycle through which both the
5 Fragmeitts of Flk Foygotte,.. Mead. 459-61. 202.
The Twelve Disciples 53
physical Sun manifests in nature and the Spiritual Sun mani-
fests in humanity; also to indicate the 12 mighty zodiacal
Hierarchies or Rays of Understanding, the 12 mighty expres-
sions of cosmic Truth; 12 avenues through which the Sun of
Righteousnessthe incarnate Wordcan shine forth to illum-
inate the hearts and minds of all classes and conditions of
humanity. They also represent the 12 Gates to the New
Jerusalem, that inner Temple of Truth in which each type of
humanity (disciple) can receive thQ illumination of the inner
mysteries face to face and heart to heart through his own
special avenue of thought and teaching; that inner shrine where
the one Light reveals those inner truths which cannot be given
directly to the uncomprehending multitude, but which are the
basis of the outer shining forth of every true disciple of the
Christ
The zodiac also represents the Last Supper or the round
table on which the Bread of Life is placed, the food which
sustains the universe; while the life-force (blood) of the
Sun, which vitalizes all the signs, is the \Vine of Life or
the mystical blood of the Cosmic Christ of which all must
partake.6 While all partake of this mystic bread and wine
around the Sun's table, only those who are truly disciples
and who recognize their Lord of Light, can consciously par-
take "in remembrance of Him" with a full understanding of
whar is taking place. These have no fear of the betrayer's
kiss or of any so-called malign planetary influences.
Jesus fed the multitude with 5 loaves and 2 small fishes,'
and of the fragments remaining they gathered up 12 baskets
full. In other words, the Light Bearer brings to manldnd
the forces of the 5 exoteric planets and the 2 esoteric planets
hidden behind the Sun and Moon, and these must be recog-
nized and assimilated ere he can fill his baskets with the forces
of those planets expressed through the 12 signs. From an-
SSI. Joka. VI 53.
7 Tradition ted, us that Jesus was one of a family of S boys and 2 girl.. Sec
St. Matthew. xiii. 55-6.
54 The Key of Destiny
other standpoint man must be fed by all the forces cognized
by his 5 senses on all planes, supplemented by the 2 small
because hidden and undevelopedsenses crc he can receive
the return of a basket full from each of the 12 signs.
The age of the boy Jesus when found by his mother in the
temple expounding the law to the elders also has reference
to the relation of the evolution of the Soul to the forces of
the zodiac. That this incident is but another step in the
manifestation of the Spiritual Sun is evidenced by correspond-
ing accounts found elsewhere. "Strauss points out the extra-
Scriptural stories of Moses leaving his father's house at twelve
to play the part of an inspired teacher, and of Samuel begin-
ning to prophesy at that age.. . In Strabo's account of Judea,
after the recital of the Greek version of the Moses myth...
the parents went to Delphi, 'anxious to learn whether the child
which had been exposed [as was the infant Moses] was still
living,' while the child itself 'had gone to the temple of Apollo.'
. . The detail of the Christ-child prophesying in the temple,
however, compares further with.. . the fact that in one part
of the Egyptian ritual Isis figured as wailing for the loss of
her child, the boy Horns,"8 who was afterward found in
the Temple of the Sun teaching the priests.
For according to the Sun Myth at the age of 12 the incar-
nated Sun God or Savior has passed around and completed
the circle of the zodiac and aitho but a child has attained the
Light of Wisdom which enables him to consort with the
Masters in the temple, for he has demonstrated his ability
to rule all 12 influences of the zodiac.
Another significance of the Light Bearer prophesying and
teaching at the age of 12 is that when the Soulthe individual-
ized Sun-god of its cyclehas really correlated with the in-
fluences exerted through the 12 signs, he is mystically 12 years
old; that is, at the age of 12 the Soul has fully incarnated.
In Oriental countries a boy has reached his majority at 12
SCkrstia*ily gad MtkoIogy. Robcrt!on. 310-11.
The Twelve Disciples 55
and is initiated into his caste, religion or tribe, according to
the practice in the various countries. Among the Western
nations, however, who follow the outer and physical mani-
festations of the Law, the age of majority is 21; i. e., 12 is
reflected as 21, just as many other esoteric truths are reversed
and misunderstood in the West.
When the evolving child has reached this period, the Soul
(the 1 or 10) has taken possession of the body (2) and made a
new number 12. The child must therefore take upon itself
new duties and responsibilities or be about its Father's busi-
ness. The Soul must now take its place in the Temple of
the personality as a Light Bearer, for it has now reached a
point where it has realized the character of the lessons and
recognized the forces of each of the 12 signs and has begun
consciously to control and utilize and impress them upon
the personality. Previous to this stage of 12, man's entire
attention is taken up with his personal and selfish aims, but
after that he must begin to be about his Father's business;
i. e., must learn to work unselfishly and for the good of all
the Father's children.
During its many incarnations the Soul naturally must in-
carnate at different times under each of the 12 signs that it
may come under the influences and learn the lessons of each.
Incarnation does not necessarily take place in each sign in
orderly succession from Aries to Pisces, but varies according
to the varying needs of the incarnating Soul. The Soul does
not reach its spiritual majority when it has merely incarnated
once in each sign, but when it has really grasped the lessons
and correlated with the forces of each sign. It may require
hundreds of incarnations in each sign before its lessons are
truly grasped and the Soul is given a glimpse of its spiritual
destiny or its Father's business; namely, manifesting in the
personality or microcosm all the perfection, powers and works
which the Father manifests in the macrocosm. And even
then the Soul is only a child in spiritual development and
just beginning the task of the spiritual man; i.e., not only
56 The Key of Destiny
the recognition of the lessons and forces of each sign, but their
absolute mastery. Therefore even after it has reached the
stage of unfoldment represented by 12, the Soul must spend
many, many "days at school" (incarnations) in each sign ere
Mastery is reached and it attains "to the measure of a Man,
that is, of an anl.° We can "expound the law" in our
temple or personality only by performing the tasks set for
us by our Father, and learning their lessons one by one as
they are presented.
It is at the age of 12 physically that the child must begin to
assume personal responsibility, for it is only then that the
Soul has fully incarnated in the body. The incarnation of the
Soul may be said to begin at the time of conception, for if
there were no Soul present to incarnate conception would not
take place. Another stage is reached at the time of the quicken-
ing and a third stage with the drawing in of the first breath.
During the first two stages there is a mere overshadowing of
the Soul who desires to incarnate and who caused the con-
ception, but with the first breath the Spirit or the Soul begins
actual possession of the body, but it is only a beginning. With
the first breath the consciousness of the incarnating Soul dies
to the higher realms, the first breath in this world following
the last gasp in the higher, just as the last gasp in the physical
world is the first breath of the Soul's return to the higher
world from whence it came.
The possession of the body by the incarnating entity steadily
progresses as center after center in the bodies of the child is
developed and made available for the Soul to function through,
until the age of 12 (approximately) or puberty is reached.
The actual age of puberty varies somewhat according to race,
climate, et cetera, but theoretically it should occur at 12. In-
deed 12 is about the average age between the Northern and
Southern races, children in the Northern countries reaching
puberty somewhat later and those in the Southern somewhat
P RevalgIlo,,. XXI. 17.
The Twelve Disciples 57
earlier. At that period, however, the bodily centers are suf-
ficiently developed to enable the Soul to take full possession.
The power to create which appears at that time and not before
is evidence that the Soul is only then in full possession.
The planet itself is now upon the threshold of its mystical
age of 12 and must assume its responsibilities. This is one
reason why there is so much unrest; why humanity is running
hither and thither; why the elementals are stirring up all
forms of physical unrest and seeking new and higher states
of evolution.
Since the 12 signs of the zodiac are all represented by
animals, it has been said that man receives from the zodiac
the forces of his animal nature. This is quite true, for in
man's body can be found traces of all the lower kingdoms
which he has unconsciously raised to a higher scale simply
because they have been built into a human body. Yet through
the planets he also receives the higher forces by which to trans-
mute the lower. Just as in the course of evolution the life-wave
passed through all the lower kingdoms, receiving from each its
characteristic forces, so must man take his animal instincts and
characteristics and, through the power given to him as man,
redeem and lift them up into a higher expression. For after
reaching the spiritual age of 12, as a conscious ruler of his
zodiac he must take all the forces of the animal kingdom
which he finds within him and lift them above the mere
animal and transmute them into perfected powers for the
use of the Higher Self.
r. tic Nfttloïiu.1 M4u1u, Ctty of xko
Azrw CALENIsI STONI
This stone, which was made at the command of King Axayacat
about 1478. was buried in the marshes near the City of Mixico when
(ortez destroyed' the Aztec temples in 152k, and was not unearthed until
three centuries later.
The sun is represented by the head in the center "with its ear adorn'
ments, massive necklace and protruding tcwgue" The four squares
surrounding the face symbolize the Ages of Water, Air. Fire and
Earth as well as the four seasons. The encirchng hieroglyphics ind-
cate the tiumber of years, the twenty days of the month and the sixteeis
hours of the Aztec day and night.
CHAPTER VIII.
The Number 12. THE GREAT WoRE.
"What we have said of certain numbers we hold to
be true only by reason of the correspondence existing
between the higher and lower worlds, the sphere of
causes and that of effects, the noumenal and phe-
nomenal worlds, . . . the significance of a num-
ber answers to definite archetypal or noumenal re
lations."Kabalo of Number:, Sepharial, Vol. 1, 20.
The ancient Egyptians attached great importance to the
sayings of children after they had reached the age of 12 be-
cause they believed that since in the solar system 12 marks
the completion of the zodiac, so in the cycle of the child's
life the twelfth year marked the complete incarnation of
the Higher Self. The incarnation was believed to bring to the
child many memories of the higher realms, glimpses of the
future and in some cases the power of prophecy to which wise
men should give heed. In modern life, aitho children contin-
ually astonish their parents with visions, prophetic utterances
and a wisdonl far beyond their years, such remarks are often
ridiculed and their significance is lost sight of, hence much
wisdom is left ungarnered. The truth is that a Soul which
has just completed its full incarnation is quite likely to impress
upon the plastic and receptive brain of its new body many pro-
found conceptions which neither the child nor its parents can
account for5 but which are the result of the mighty inrush of
the Soul's consciousness as it leaves the higher realms to
enter earth conditions. This is especially true of those of
advanced spiritual development. Especially are many mem-
ones of the last incarnation brought over, and often a con-
ception of the Soul's life-work and the vital reason for its
present incarnation.
The child naturally follows its impulse to speak these things,
but if 'it finds its parents and friends inattentive or filled with
5*
The Great Work 59
ridicule, its sensitive nature is hurt and humiliated and it
soon learns to cover up and stifle those impressions until they
are obliterated and lost. If more serious attention were paid
to the unusual utterances of children,1 especially during the
twelfth and following years when the child is formulating
its ideas as to its work in life, there would be fewer "square
pegs in round holes," hence less inefficiency and misdirected
lives.
Since all things in the heavens have their reflection on
earth we would naturally expect to find twelve centers on
earth in which the influences from the 1 signs of the zodiac
would find special focal points. In The Secret Doctrine2
we are told: "In the same manner, and on the plane of the
upper Ocean or Heavens, a certain realm on Earth, an inland
sea, was consecrated and called the 'Abyss of Learning';
twelve centers on it, in the shape of twelve small islands, rep-
resenting the Zodiacal Signs.. . were the abodes of twelve
Hierophants and Masters of Wisdom. This 'Sea of Knowl-
edge' or learning remained for ages there, where now stretches
the Shanio or Gobi Desert. It existed until the last great
glacial period, when a local cataclysm, which swept the waters
South and West and so formed the present great desolate
desert, left only a certain oasis, with a lake and one island
in the midst of it a a relic of the Zodiacal Ring on Earth."
Geographers and many others today look upon this as
a mere legend, the sea symbolizing the Sea of Knowledge, the
12 islands 12 centers in man upon which the zodiacal forces
are focused, and the desert the present condition of esoteric
knowledge among mankind. But while this interpretation
is true, the statement has a physical and geographical mean-
ing as well. For the fine sand of the Gobi desert is a preserva-
tive as well as a destructive agent and many wonderful mys-
1 Not, however, discussed brjore others in the presence of the child, thus
tending to cause it to invent ale, that will attract attention and make itself
important, but discussed carefully with the child alone and then recorded in a
book kept for the purpose.
2VoL IL 528.
60 The Key of Destiny
teries are destined soon to be revealed among the treasures
it has preserved throughout the past centuries. St. Matthew,3
referring to the last days of tbo twelfth or Piscean Age, tells
us: "Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered,
that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known."
For even though, through man's ignorance and disobedience
he has made this earth an unfit dwelling place for the phys-
ical manifestation of the great planetary and zodiacal Intel-
ligences and the great Hierophants representing the 12 ex-
pressions of the Spiritual Sun, nevertheless, ere the Cosmos
again passes through the twelfth sign, all the forces of the
entire zodiac must be fully represented on earth by those
Great Ones who embody their respective Hierarchical Rays.
Hence we may expect to see the 12 sacred islands again
restored.
If we express number 12 in Roman numerals, thus XII,
we still find the symbology unchanged. Here we find the
two ones representing positive and negative, masculine and
feminine, standing beside a cardinal cross (X) representing
the 10. In mathematics the X represents any unknown quan-
tity, in this case unknown because man and woman have not
as yet been able to stand beside it as joint rulers of the
mysterious forces it represents.
In the ancient Sepher Vetcirah4 or the Hebrew Book of
Formation the zodiac is represented by the 12 simple letters
of the Hebrew alphabet. And we find our same ideas as
to the symbolism of number 12 there corroborated, namely,
that the 12 signs are the houses of reflection of the various
powers of the Sun which give to it its various aspects of
manifestation. Also "the 12 simple letters are . . . the foun-
dations of the 12 properties: Sight, Hearing, Smell, Speech,
Taste, Sexual Love, Work, Movement, Anger, Mirth, Imag-
ination and Sleep. . . These 12 Simple Letters he designed,
and combined and formed with them the 12 celestial constel-
S
S X. 26.
4 XXIII. 4.
The Great Work 61
Tations of the Zodiac whose signs are Teth, Shin, Tazz, Sainech,
Aleph, Both, Mem, 0hz, Qoph, Gimel, Daleth, and Dalcth.
Twelve also are the Months of the Year: Nisan (March),
Yiar (April), Sivan (May), Tamuz (June), Ab (July), Elul
(August), Tishri (September), Hesvan (October), Ki.clev
(November), Tebet (December), Sabat (January) and
Adar (February)."5 Man, the microcosm, also has these signs
and letters represented in his body as follows:
He (E) is predominant in speech and is connected with
Aries which rules the head, face and the intellectual faculties,
of which speech is the natural expression.
Vau (V) is predominant in mind and also in hearing. It
is connected with Taurus which rules the neck. And since
there is in the throat an important center which has much
to do with the transformation of thought into speech the
connection is obvious.
Zain (Z) is connected with Gemini which rules the arms
and hands, by the movements of which thoughts are executed.
Heth (H) rules the sight, feelings and imagination. It is
connected with Cancer which rules the breast.
Teth (T) is predominant in love and is connected with Leo
which rules the heart.
Yod (I) is connected with Virgo which rules the solar
plexus, bowels and uterus. This represents the Celestial
Virgin, the sign rising at the birth of all saviors. Yod is also
the Alpha and Omega of all numbers, the Divine one from
which all are born. This answers in a mystical way the
mooted question concerning the immaculate conception.
Lamed (L) is connected with Libra which rules the kid.
neys, loins and ovaries. It is connected with sleep and dreams.
Nun (N) is connected with Scorpio which rules the sex
organs.
Saznech (S) is connected with Sagittarius which rules the
Søk.v Y,tzfr.Ji. 23.
62 The Key of Destiny
liver, thighs and hips. It is also connected with the sense
of smell and perception.
Ayiu (GH) is connected with Capricorn which rules the
knees. It is also connected with anger and pride.
Tzaddi (TS) is connected with Aquarius which rules the
calves and ankles It is also connected with taste.
Qoph (K) is connected with the sign Pisces which rules
the feet. It is also predominant in mirth.
"The name of Deity, which we call Jehova, is in Hebrew a
name of four letters, IHVH. . . It is capable of 12 trans-
positions, which all convey the meaning 'to be'; it is the only
word that will bear so many transpositions without its mean-
ing be altered. They are called the 12 banners of: The mighty
name, and are said by some to rule the 12 signs of the Zodiac.
These are the 12 banners: IHVH, IHHV, IVHH, HVHI,
HVIH, HHIV, VHHI, VIHH, VHIH, HIHV, HIVH,
HHVI."
"Dr. Smith shows in the Nimrod Epoch of the Assyrian
tablets . . . (that) its 12 cantos refer to the annual course
of the Sun through the 12 months of the year. Each tablet
answers to a special month, and contains a distinct reference
to the animal forms in the signs of the T
Alchemically number 12 pertains to the Great Work. Ac-
cording to Eliphas Levi: "The great work is, before all
things,, the creation of man by himself, that is to say, the full
and entire conquest of his faculties and hi future."8
The great Work has two major operations, the chief one
being the transmutation of all base forces and passions in
ourselves into spiritual gold thus setting the Soul free from
all prejudice and vice. The second is a threefold mystical
operation which cannot be performed until the first opera-
tion is completed. It consists of, firstly, the transmutation
of all base metals into gold, secondly, the production of the
IThe KabbaIst, Uaveiled, Matbers, 30, 31.
T The Secret Doctriwe, Blavatsky, II, 368.
8 Trauscedeatal Magic. 108.
The Great Work 63
Universal Medicine which cures all diseases, and thirdly, the
production of the Philosopher's Stone which turns to gold
everything it touches. This work is related to number 12
because only as man gathers up the forces of the 12 signs
of the zodiac and builds them into his life can he become a
Magus, one capable of completing the Great Work.
It is said that Hermes Trismegistus inscribed the entire
formula of the Great Work upon an emerald in the cryptic
injunction, "Thou shalt separate the earth from the fire, the
eubtil from the gross." In other words, we must be able
absolutely to separate in our lives and minds all that is earthly
from all that is divine (or fire) and realize that spiritual
things are the "subtil"baving fine structure, ethereal
or hidden causes of life and expression, while all corporeal
things which engage our outer attention are but the "gross."
These are but the outer husks, yet they have their places as
vehides, yet once we separate the Divine Fire of life-force
from them they have accomplished their mission.
The Great Work, like all mystical procedures, has a triple
applicationreligious, philosophical and natural. It is re-
ligious because only as we seek the Supreme Wisdom in the
divine revelation of truth within ourselves can we hope to
accomplish the first step in the Great Work. It is philosophical
because only when we have applied this Wisdom as a philoso-
pher, i.e., one who regulates his life according to principle and
schools himself to calmness and patience under all condi-
tions, can we proceed with the Work. It is natural in that
only as we have learned the subtiler laws of nature and matter
and have proved the axiom "as above, so below; as below, so
above" to be a working hypothesis, can we complete the Great
Work.
In religion it is the gold of spiritual Realization, in philoso-
phy it is the gold of spiritual Wisdom or naked Truth; in
nature it is the gold of the Sun-force. The Great Work is
spoken of as an operation of the Sun because in nature it is
the subtile force of the Sun which transmutes all gross and
64 The Key of Destiny
seemingly dead things into new forms of life, as the delicate
flower arises from the decomposing humus. Within man's
body the Spiritual Sun must accomplish the same Great
Work. The Christ Seed buried in the soil of man's gross
animal body must be quickened and brought to flower in his
life as the Rose of Divine Love.
It is well known to chemists and physicians that the ele-
ments composing the human body are carbon, oxygen and
hydrogen, together with 12 mineral salts. If the average per-
centage of any of these falls greatly below or is markedly
increased above the normal, the body either craves or expels
these salts. For example, if the amount of iron pigment
(hematin) falls below normal we become pale and anemic
and the whole train of symptoms caused by anemia and in-
sufficient oxidatioi follows. Reasoning on this basis certain
biochemists° have connected the 12 mineral salts with the
signs of the zodiac as follows:
Potassium phosfate with Aries and the brain.
Sodium sulfate with Taurus and the elimination of water.
Potassium chloride with Gemini and the animal tissues.
Calcium Flouride with Cancer, the teeth and elastic fiber.
Magnesium phosfate with Leo and the nerve sheaths.
Potassium sulfate with Virgo and oil, hair and nails.
Sodium phosfate with Libra and the acids.
Calcium sulfate with Scorpio and tissue cleansing.
Silica, called the "surgeon of the system," with Sagit-
tarius.
Calcium phosfate with Capricorn and the bones.
Sodium chloride with Aquarius and the control of water.
Ferrum phosfate with Pisces, the blood and vital energy.
In Masonry great emphasis is laid upon the number 12.
The 12 functions of the Lodge are presided over by the 12
Sons of Jacob and connected with the zodiac. Thus Ruben
opens the lodge, Simeon prepares the land, Levi gives the
'Astro Bi.chemijtry. Straug)rn.
The Great Work 65
signal, Judah presides,over the entrance, Zebidun the prayer,
Issacher the circuinambulation, Dan the advance to the altar,
Gad the obligation, Asher the entrusting, Nap utah the invest-
ment, Joseph the N. E. corner and Benjamin the closing of
the Lodge. The 12 inch rule is a symbol of guidance by law
and order; of liberty, equality and fraternity. There are 12
lines of equal length from the sacred cube and 12 Grand
Points.
The Crata Nepoa'° or the Mysteries of the Ancient Egyptian
Priests tells us that the cycle of the Sun was symbolized in the
12 tortures through which the Egyptian Neophyte was re-
quired to pass crc he received the sacred cross, the Tau, and
became a Hierophant.
"Quoted in Th Saflg Doa,j,j. Dlayatsky.
CHAPTER IX.
The Number 12.. FRUITION.
"Humanity and the stars are bound together indis-
solubly, because of the Intelligences that rule the
latter."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, II, 368.
While number 10 is the Number of Completion, and num-
ber 11 a New Beginning, numbeii 12 we will call the Number
of Fruition, or a review of the entire Cosmos such as was
made when "God saw everything that he had made, and be-
hold it was very good." Or we might compare number 10
to a completed tree with all its parts, number 11 to the same
tree beginning to put forth in a new season, and number 12
to the tree at the close of the season when it has borne its
fruit.
In the tenth sign (Capricorn) man becomes a responsible
being and chooses whom he will serve; for in that sign we
find both the Goat of Mendes (the symbol of black magic) and
also the Cradle of the Christ. In the eleventh sign (Aquarius)
we start out to manifest our choice, either to be one of the
servers at the Marriage Feast who pour out of the water pots
the Water of Life at the command of the Son of Man and
find that it has been turned to wine, or to be a Judas who
shall betray Him. In the twelfth sign (Pisces) we stand as
disciples beside Him and take from His hand the loaves and
fishes which at His command we distribute to the multitude
whom we have caused to sit down or become at rest. And
only as we reach this point of Fruition in our spiritual devel-
opment can we swim like the two fishes of Pisces in the great
unfathomable depths of occult and esoteric wisdom poured
forth by the zodiac and be prepared to take up the 12 baskets
full of fragments, or can we be said to have correlated the
12 signs and gathered their forces and become mystically 12
years old.
Fruition 67
Like the two fishes we must also be able to swim in the deep
places of the sea of humanity and so master conditions that
the tremendous pressure of its waters cannot destroy us. For
a true Piscean is one who has fully expressed all the powers
of the twelfth sign, and he should hold the world in his grasp
and understand every influence expressed in all the 12 signs.
Indeed, he should be able not only to swim in the water unseen
while unable to express that which he knows, as do most
Pisceans today, but should be able to master and express or
live in all the other elements at the same time. One charac-
teristic of the fish is a wonderful power of direction, without
having organs to determine it. This will manifest in the devel-
oped Piscean as an ability to make direct contact with unseen
worlds. As the fish has the ability to see at great depths, so
the developed Piscean will manifest the ability to see into the
mysterious depths of life. The fish is a wonderful battery of
magnetic and electric forces and while the undeveloped Piscean
is usually quite negativeowing to the tremendous pressure of
the forces which as yet he is unable to expressnevertheless
the developed native of this sign will be able, like Jesus the
Great Piscean, to manifest a powerful force in setting forth the
teachings needed for advanced humanity.
The earth has been passing through the sign Pisces during
the last zodiacal cyde of approximately 2000 years, and as
Jesus was the Avatar for that Age, in His life and character
we find set forth to the world all that humanity must ultimately
express. However, it will only be when in the Sixth Great
Race, millions of years hence, we pass this way again that the
majority of humanity will be able to express all that Jesus in
His life symbolized and foreshadowed.
Again, the twelfth sign symbolizes the dual power of the
separated sexes. All during the years when we were passing
through the Piscean Age the problem of sex has held sway,
and truly man has eaten ol the Tree of Life and has learned
to know its evil side, hence the Angel with the Flaming Sword
even now bars the gate of Eden. But man is destined to learn
68 The Key of Destiny
the use of this force for good as well as for evil. And now
during the long passage through the Aquarian Age upon which
we have entered, we must learn the many higher lessons of
sex; for verily it i destined that once more the woman shall
give to eat of the Tree of Life, and as one prophecy has been
fulfilled, namely, "The day ye eat thereof ye shall surely die,"
equally true shall be the words of the Serpent (Saturn, the
Great Initiator) when woman gives to man the ripened fruit at
the right time (the time of its perfection), namely, "For God
doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall
be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil."
The twelfth sign is not easy to comprehend for its numerical
composition of 10 and 2 shows it is Fruition or Perfection in
Duality; number 2, duality or the physical separation of the
one Divine Ray into its positive and negative expressions, and
number 10, the same Ray having passed through the entire
cycle of 9 and reached its physical perfection in 10.
Just as the Great Piscean Age was pictured at the beginning
of Geneiis in the few graphic symbols of the Tree of Life in
the midst of the garden, and of man's fall and banishment
from Eden for eating its fruit after the manner of the outer
senses (Adam), even when presented by the intuition
(Eve), so in the last chapter of Revelation we find the
beautiful assurance of its ultimate triumph. To understand
this, however, it must be borne in mind that while the
entire Jesus dispensation refers to the Piscean Age, yet the
planet as well as humanity must pass through a Piscean Age
during the evolution of every Great Race' until the fullness of
its manifestation is reached; for this planet, being the least
and last of this system to manifest, is the Piscean Planet; that
is, the great question of sex is the lesson to be learned upon it.
In Revelation we are given a picture of the conditions which
will prevai' during the Sixth and Seventh Great Races when
the new heaven and new earth will be ruled from the Holy
iWe are now entering the sixth sub-race of the Fifth Great Race (Aryan).
Fruition 69
City which will come down from God out of heaven, Le.,
ruled by direct personal touch with the Divine Teachers and
Rulers of the cosmic Hierarchies. Then will the tabernade
of God be with man upon earth. But these conditions must
be at least foreshadowed during the sixth and seventh sub-
races of our present Fifth Great Race.
CHAPTER X.
The Twelfth Letter. LAMED (s).
"0 sing unto the Lord a new song; for he bath
done marvelous things, his right hand, and his holy
arm, bath gotten him the victory."Psclm.c
XCVIII, 1.
"As I live saith the Lord God, surely with a mighty
band and a stretched out arm, and with fury poured
out, will I rule over you. And I wiU bring you out
from the people . . . with a mighty hand, and
with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured
out."E:ekiel XX, 33-34.
"He produced Lamed (L) predominant in sexual
desire, crowned it, combined and formed with it
Libra m the universe, Teshri in the year, and the
private parts of man."Seplier Yetzirah, 24.
Hieroglyphically the twelfth letter, Lamed, designates the
outstretched arm of a man, or anything that can be stretched
out and made rigid to exert strength and to accomplish some
definite work. The strength manifested in the eleventh letter,
or the hand that grasps,'.must ever depend upon the arm that
stretches out the hand or the power that gives strength to the
hand, also the invisible force or life back of that strength.
Therefore the twelfth letter expresses the power of the exertion
of strength and of the expansion caused by a definite inflow of
the life-force necessary to accomplish an object. White the
strong hand can grasp either good or evil, can be clenched to
save or to punish, the arm must be extended and the life-force
expand its muscles as it is elevated for either purpose, good or
evil.
The letter Lamed corresponds with the zodiacal sign Libra
(the Balance), for only as we have learned to balance our
life-forces and not permit them to sweep us off our feet can
we use them for good, and determinedly stretch out the arm
to grasp that which shall bring us victory over our lower
1 See alao Gund in The Key to tke Û,,wcne, Cnrti,s, 126.
70
Lamed 71
animal nature. Again, it is the arm of the Divine Law (Karma)
stretched out to bold the scales of justice so that they shall
swing free, that the slightest breath of the Spirit of Life may
sway them, lest like Beishazzar the strong hand shall write for
us on the wall of our temple (physical body) "Thou art
weighed in the balances and found wanting."
It takes little thought to see why the ancient sages said this
letter was "predominant in sexual desire," for is not this force
one of the strongest factors affecting the balance of life?
Hence this letter primarily symbolizes the equilibrium that
must be attained through balancing the sex-forces, and the ex-
pansion of strength needed to accomplish this end.
The main lesson of this planet is that the perfect balance
of all that is expressed through sex must be gained crc we
can attain equilibrium or the victory which the Great Law
will bring to us. But we must ourselves reach for it with
the holy ann or the positive power to accomplish and not
negatively pray to some outside power to relieve us from its
tests and responsibilities ere it is balanced. Only then can
we sing the New Song. We need never expect to do, away
with sexual desire until we have gained the victory over it
and used it for its highest ends according to the mandate
of the Divine Law. So long as we adhere to the opinion
that it is vile, unclean, and given to man by a1 capricious God
as a stumbling block to test man's endurance and help him
to create and people a hell for his own sufferings, so long
must we suffer from it. To avoid this we must first balance
our minds, set one thing against another and ask why a God
of love should place man in the midst of His garden of life
and say to him as a part of His blessing: "Be fruitful, and
multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it," if it was
not in very truth the great lesson whose solution would
bring about the victory here outlined.
In other words, to balance it we must see God's end of the
scales and not fix our minds solely on man's end and say that it
brings so much sin and misery that we will cut off this end,
72 The Key of Destiny
hoping thereby to attain a balance. If we do this the great
hand of Karma will still hold out the unbalanced scales and the
fury resulting from man's own acts, with which he has filled
and unbalanced the scales, will be poured out upon him. If
an electric wire be carefully connected it brings even a high
current of electricity safely to the lamp at the other end and
sheds its blessing of light and warmth around. But if the wire
be broken so it hangs down and touches the earth, it flashes,
sputters and spreads desolation and death. So is it with the
scales of which we are speaking. Indeed, to cut off man's
end is even worse for humanity than to make a mistaken
use of it.
There is a difference between balance and equilibrium. A
balance has two opposite ends which must be poised and
equal to each other. Equilibrium is the balance produced by
the counteraction of two or more foroes, equilibrium being
the central pointin this case where the One Life is ever
manifesting through the two, God's end and man's end. Thus
the letter Lamed is associated with sexual desire because the
One Life which manifests through man is the force back of
all evolution, and without this pushing force neither the
stretched out arm nor the strong, virile hand would be effec-
tive; nor in nature could a seed grow, a plant produce, nor
a blade of grass push through the sod. Therefore the pre-
eminent significance expressed by Lamed is the power of the
life-force to produce manifestation.
Another meaning of Lamed is that of an ox-goad. Very
little thought is needed to correlate this meaning with the
one given above, for it is the creative power of the One Life
that ever goads on our ox-like physical consciousness. Also
in the ox-goad the idea of something with which to beat or
chastise the ox is expressed, and the oxsymbol of our animal
natureneeds this to compel it to complete its labor or to use
the abundance of its life-force and energy in creative and
useful work for man. Indeed, in England the word lamm
is still used to signify a severe beating, our slang term a
THE 12TH TAROT CARD
rHH HANGED MAN
T
Pa pus MEDIEVAL TYPES Paptss
Smt
MODERN TYPE
St. Gera,
EGYPTIAN TYPE
Lamed 73
lambasting having the same meaning. Also just as the
stretched out arm enables the hand to accomplish, so the
ox-goad compels the ox to exert his strength to the utmost
to accomplish his task.
THE TWELFTH TAROT CARD
The Hanged Man.
The twelfth card of the Tarot is called The Hanged Man.
On it is a picture of a gibbet composed of two uprights and
a crosspiece. The two uprights are growing trees from each
of which 6 branches have been cut. These 6 lopped-off
branches on either side have the same symbology as the 12
signs of the zodiac. From the crosspiece a man is hanging
by his left foot. His hands are tied behind his back and
under each armpit is a bag of money. His eyes are open
and his hair floats downward in the wind. His back and
the fold of his arms form the base of a reversed triangle
of which his head forms the point. His right leg is crossed
behind his left, forming a cross. The symbol thus formed
() is the sign of personality, while in alchemy it is the
sign of the accomplishment of the Great Work. The Great
Work of man is to overcome personality and transmute his
lower passions into pure gold and become the ruler of his
destiny, yet at the twelfth step we find him reversed, altho
ultimately he must stand upon his feet and surmount the
cross, thus .
Here we see the idea of the pushing force of the One Life
carried into higheij metaphysics, this card expressing the idea
of punishment that the Great Law may accomplish its full-
ness. For man must bang upside down with his feet where
his head should be until he accomplishes the Great Work of
regeneration within himself, and he can never stand in its
midst and rule and dominate the zodiac while he hangs by
one foot, weighted down by bags of money under his arms,
which should be free to stretch out in blessing over man-
74 The Key of Destiny
kind and to accomplish through the strength of his hands.
His head pointing downward and the money bags under
his arms symbolize that man has used his highest powers
(head) on earth to turn all things into money or physical gold
which when thus gained only weighs him down and makes his
accomplishment in the higher realms more difficult.
"I am the Lord (Law) and I will redeem you with a
stretched out arm." Again, "Remember that thou wast a
servant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God
brought thee out thence, through a mighty hand and a stretched
out arm." It is only the power of the One Life controlled by
the determined will, symbolized by the mighty band and
stretched out arm, that can bring man out of the land of
bondage (Egypt), make him stand upright upon his feet
(understanding) and enable him to rule his stars. There-
fore this twelfth card carries with it the idea of the revealed
Law as Karma. It shows that only as man feels the "fury
poured out" and learns the lessons from the suffering en-
tailed by permitting sex desire to rule during the elevation
of the personality, can he accomplish his Great Work of
transmutation.
The Greeks relate number 12 to the myth of Prometheus
who stole the sacred fire from the Sun, again the zodiac which
receives and transmits the Sun force (sacred fire). Like
Prometheus, man today is indeed chained to the rock of phys-
ical existence where the vulture (sex-desire) feeds upon his
liver (seat of passional desires) which grows again continu-
ally as soon as consumed. This condition will continue until
he has gained the wisdom of the zodiac and has balanced the
force of desire and transmuted it into spiritual love. This
myth therefore has the same meaning as the twelfth card.
The Hanged Man here pictured is expiating the theft of
the fruit of the Tree of Life (divine creative fire), a gift
indeed to man, yet one because of which he has been chained
IEz,dus. VI. 6.
Lamed 75
to the rock of personality with the vultures of desire ever
eating at his vitals. Yet some day like Prometheusthe
meaning of the name being Forethinkerman will learn his
lesson and realize that fire is a gift of the gods to be used
to transmute the dross of passion into the gold of spiritual
love, for only so can he become the Master of the Vultures.
They can never destroy him, for what they gnaw today will
be restored to-morrow, and with every pang of suffering
wisdom and understanding will increase until the Great Work
of man's redemption shall be accomplished. Without fire base
metals can never become gold, and without desire, determined
will and strength of character, the base, inverted passions of
man can never be transmuted into spiritual gold.
According to a vulgar interpretation this card is said to
represent Judas, who went out and hanged himself after be-
traying the Christ, with the 30 pieces of silver under his
arms. But when we understand that that whole story is a
symbolical allegory we will see that this card is Judas indeed,
but not as an historical personage. Judas represents a cer-
tain phase of humanity, and as the card shows, he hangs by
one foot, or by a partial understanding; for man's betrayal
of the Christ within is brought about often more completely
by half truths and half understandings than by deliberate
treachery or by utter ignorance.
This Tarot card also agrees with the symbology of the
myth of Edipus who was given by his father into the hands
of herdsmen with orders for him to be destroyed. The
herdsmen were moved with pity, yet not daring to disobey
they tied the child by one foot to an overhanging branch of
a tree. Edipus represents the personality which the Father
seeks not to destroy but to send forth into conditions far
from his real home that he may be succored and nourished
by nature. While the treatment seems cruel, yet through
it Edipus learned to stand erect and become a valiant de-
fender of the community, and later he was able to answer
the Riddle of the Sphinx, which was a symbol that he had
76 The Key of Destiny
passed his Initiation. Later he became a king and was mar-
ried to the king's daughter; i. e., his love and intuition (fem-
inine) were joined to wisdom (masculine). However, some
accounts depict a more dire result, namely, that he married the
queen who was his own mother, thus bringng upon him mad-
ness. This is the other side of the story, for the personality
must either conquer and have love and wisdom wedded, or
else defile the great Divine Mother, which means to use his
acquired power for evil purposes.
CHAPTER XI.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules.
"Take an instance: the legendsfor they are all
legends for exoteric purposes . . . of the lives
of Krishna, Hercules, Pythagoras, Buddha, Jesus,
Apollonius, Chaitanya. On the worldly plane their
biographies, if written by one outside the circle,
would differ greatly from what we read of them
in the narratives that are preserved of their mystic
lives. . . . It is not in the course of their every-
day life, then, that the great similarity is to be sought,
but in their inner state. . . All this is connected
with and built upon an astronomical basis, which
serves at the same time as a foundation for the
representation of the degrees and trials of Initiation:
descent into the Kingdom of Darkness and Matter,
for the last time, to emerge therefrom as 'Suns of
Righteousness.' "The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky,
III, 141-2.
In the Hymns of Orpheus. in the Scholiast of Hesiod, also
in Porphyry, the 12 labors of Hercules are connected with
the 12 signs of the zodiac, Hercules being considered as a
symbol of the Sun in its passage through these 12 signs.
Other sources have variously considered him as a hero or
as a god. Dr. Fox, in The Mythology of all Races,1 describes
him thus: "Herakies is a bewildering compound of god and
hero. While he may properly be called the most heroic of
the Grecian gods, he cannot with equal propriety be termed
the most divine of heroes." We agree with the first named
authorities that the myth of Hercules represents the Sun in
it passage through the 12 signs of the zodiac, but we go a
little deeper. We shall endeavor to show herein that the
myth also symbolizes the steps of Initiation through which
every man must pass ere he becomes a "Sun Initiate." The
labors are those which each must perform in his zodiac or
cycle of evolution, namely, the transmuting of the lower or
IVoT. I. 75.
7
78 The Key of Destiny
malign influences of the 12 signs of the zodiac that the higher
and uplifting powers of each sign may lend their aid to his
onward dimb.
Ere the Soul can start out in earnest to essay the heights
of spiritual mastery he must have reached the stage of un-
foldment in which he has learned to recognize the God within
and has developed the heroic qualities which enable him to
persevere until he has learned to "rule his stars" or convert
all the zodiacal influences into steps up the Mount of Attain-
ment. In the early stages of Mastery it is through the de-
velopment of the heroic qualities of strength, courage, daring
and power that the God-man prevails. From this standpoint
let us consider the 12 labors of Hercules.
The myth of the life of Hercules strongly resembles in
some of its salient features the Bible story of Jacob, thus
giving coloring to the idea that both are myths intended
to teach the same lesson and symbolizing the same divine
truth, hence both hold the same hidden meaning. Like all
Sun-gods, Hercules was born of a divine father although the
human husband (Amphitryon) of his mother (Alkmene)
assumed the fatherhood before the world, just as Josepn
stood before the world as the father of Jesus, who never-
theless was born of "the Most High God." Indeed, every
child born of earthly parents who is conceived Without thought
of impurity and in pure love rather than lust, has an immacu-
late but not miraculous conception,' hence is conceived of the
Holy Ghost. There are many pure virgins even though mar-
ried, of whom it may be said, "The Holy Ghost shall come
upon thee, and the Power of the Highest shall overshadow
thee; therefore also that holy thing that shall be born of
thee shall be called the Son of God." The word "immaculate"
simply means without stain or impurity.
In the story of Hercules we are told that Zeus deceived
Hercules' mother by coming to her in the guise of her hus-
band during his absence. This visit symbolized a spiritual
The Doctrine of the Immaculate C.nceptioa III not become an Article of
Paith natil Dec. 8. 1854.
realization of the Divine Presence and the utter withdrawal
of her thoughts from the personality of her husband, her
consciousness being focused upon the spiritual aspect of the
relation into the realization of which his mind had not yet
risen. Thus it is always possible for the mother to hold the
higher ideal and even to hear the announcement of the angel
and "ponder it in her heart," so that the Holy Ghost shall
come upon her at the time of conception, even though the
father may not be able to understand or realize it or cooperate
with her any more than did Joseph or Amphitryon. Hence it
could be said mystically that he was not there, 1. e., not present
in consciousness, for wethat which thinks and realizesare
where our consciousness is, not merely where the body happens
to be, although in each case referred to upon the husband's
return there seems to have been no hesitancy in his adopting
the child as his own.
Like Jacob, Hercules was one of twins, his brother like
Esau being the son of the human father. Every child that
is born brings to its birth these twins, the one the child of
the overshadowing Divinity which later in life becomes the
incarnating Soulthe child (Jacob) of the Father-in-heaven-
and the animal soul of the physical body and its functions
(Esau), the progeny of his physical parents; for the parents
furnish only the physical vehicle (body) for the Soul's use.
Thus literally, as St. Paul tells us: "The first man, is of the
earth, earthy: the second man is the Lord from heaven."
This animal self is always the "first born" because, as we
have explained elsewhere,8 until the age of 12 the child is a
mere human animal only overshadowed by an immortal Soul.
Yet the divine Soul once having obtained possession is destined
to rule, or as it is expressed in the story of Jacob, acquires
the birthright of his brother Esau. In the same way in the
story of Hercules we find Iphikies, the child of the human
father, superceded by Hercules. In this allegory of the Sun
21 Coviwtkg,z. XV. 47.
2Page, 54-S.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 79
80 The Key of Destiny
Initiate the events of the Sun in each sign of the zodiac are
symbolized by the 12 labors performed by Hercules, while in
the Bible narrative they are not performed directly by Jacob
but througl his 12 sons, this being merely a variation of the
same idea.
As the four vital points of the zodiac are indicated by the
four signs Taurus (Bull), Leo (Lion), Scorpio (Eagle) and
Aquarius (the Man), so the relation of Hercules to the
zodiac is emphasized by his connection with the character-
istic of these four signs. He is represented! with a strongly
emphasized bull's (Taurus) neck and shoulders from which
he gains his great strength and his ability to labor and bear
heavy burdens, the power "to Do." He is clad in a lion's
skin (Leo) from which he is fabled to have gained his great
courage, the power "to Dare." In his cradle when but eight
months old he strangled two serpents which his father Amphi-
tryon put intn the bed9 of the twins in order to decide which
was really his son. The fact that Iphikles fled and Hercules
strangled the serpents at once convinced him. This was a
prophecy of Hercules' victory over the lower serpent-forces
(sex) in later life when he killed the nine-headed Hydra, and
when he rejected Aphrodite (sexual love) and chose Athene
(Wisdom).
The strangling of the serpents symbolizes the lowest aspects
of Scorpio (to Keep Silent), for only in the mystic silence
can we transmute the lower creative forces (Scorpio), which
are the "serpent by the way, an adder in the path that biteth
the horse's heels, so that the rider shall fall backward," into
the Eagle which shall "mount up at thy command and make
her nest on high."4 Also the serpent is the most silent of
all beasts, yet the most deadly.
The human aspect of Hercules stands for Aquarius, the God-
Man, he who pours forth the Water of Life to quicken in hu-
inanity the Christ-seed; the one who can wrest victory from
defeat; who can conquer and bring forth in spite of all the evil
'Job. xxxix '7.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 81
weeds that the pouring forth of the Water of Life may
cause to spring up, both in himself and in his environment.
This is the power of the man "to Know." Even the madness
in which Hercules is depicted as slaying his own children
carries out the symbology, for thus must the would-be Sun
Initiate destroy the children of his evil thoughts. And how
often he is accused of madness! "Strive with thy thoughts
unclean before they overpower thee. Use them as they will
thee, for if thou sparest them and they take root and grow,
know well these thoughts will overpower and kill thee."
Again, Hercules is proclaimed as a Champion of Man by
the five accouterments given him by the gods; i. e., Athene
(Wisdom) gave him a robe; Hermes (Esoteric Wisdom)
gave him a sword, the Sword of the Spirit; Apollo (Illumina-
tion) gave him a Bow from which to shoot darts of truth
and creative power; Hephaistos (Divine Fire) gave him a
Breastplate, the protecting Flame of the Christ-love which
we are told is a "consuming fire" in which nothing evil can
endure if we permit it to form an aura about us; and Hercules
himself cut from a mighty oak in Nemea a great Club, sym-
bolizing the strength of manhood wrenched from nature. And
it was with these five weapons, representing also the five
senses of man, that he performed his 12 labors.
These labors are not performed in the order in which the
signs follow each other in the zodiac, because each Soul begins
its pilgrimage in the sign ruled by the planetary Hierarchy
from which it emanated. After that it incarnates in the sign
in which its next great life experience or lesson is to be learned,
and this varies with each Soul. Hercules, being a Sun God,
naturally began in the sign ruled by the Sun, 1. e, Leo.
THE FIRST LABOR (Leo)
Killing the Neinean Lion.
The first labor of Hercules was to kill the Nemean lion
(Leo). The force of Leo in its lower aspects represents
5 The Voice of the Sileuce. BIavatk.
82 The Key of Destiny
the raging fury of the lion, its lying in wait and pouncing
on its prey unawares. And just as its higher aspects are
strength, courage and love, so the lower aspects are self-
indulgence, cowardice, and a weak, uncontrolled love-nature
which makes its possessor the prey to all the raging lower
passions. It was with these qualities that Hercules bad to
fight; for like the Nemean lion which devastated the land,
they are the "seed of Typhon" and do indeed devastate the
life of man and bring untold misery to the race.
Hercules tracked this lion to a cave having two openings,
one of which he stopped up, then entered the other and
choked the lion to death. The uncontrolled love-nature dwells
within the cave of the physical body. It has two avenues
(openings) of manifestation, the one opening outwardly, i. e.,
animal indulgence, and the other opening inwardly in the
mind as a desire to indulge self, yet to appear loving. The
outer opening Hercules stopped up by refusing to use his
powers in a merely animal way, then he entered within the
mind opening and choked the lion by refusing to allow
thoughts of self-indulgence and thoughts concerning the lower
aspects of so-called love to live. We feed and give power
over us to that upon which we allow our thoughts to dwell,
hence we must choke those thoughts which we do nut wish to
manifest in our lives.
Ever after this victory Hercules wore the lion's skin which
no weapon of man could penetrate. Even so when we have
truly conquered and balanced the heart qualities and our
timid fear of giving offence or facing criticism from the
world, we cover ourselves with the lion's skin of Divine
Love and have the courage of our convictions which no
weapon, even the most dreaded one of the tongue, or of mis-
understanding, disapproval or impurity, can penetrate. We
then have the courage of the lion and we dare to wear his
skin; for this victory builds into our character a quality
which is recognized by the world, even as was the lion's
skin worn by Hercules.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 88
THE SECOND LABOR (Scorpio)
Killing the Hydra
Quite naturally when Hercules had killed the lion (con-
quered the heart), he found his next labor to be the necessity
of fighting the lower forces expressed by Scorpio, the normal
sex passions degraded by lust. These forces are fittingly
symbolized as a monstrous Hydra with nine heads, the middle
one being immortal, which dwelt in the swamps of Lerne.
The nine heads represent the power of the nine digits or
the cycle through which the monster of perverted sex-force
crawls and pollutes mankind. Those who essay to lop off
any one of these heads will find, like Hercules, that two
heads grow in the place of each one cut off; for the more
we turn our thoughts toward sex, even for the purpose of
conquering it or cutting off its heads, the more it grows.
The one immortal head in the center, however, would be the
fifth head or number 5 (man), representing the true man who
holds within his higher consciousness the knowledge of the
truth, sacredness and inherent purity of the sex functions.
This is the great cosmic lesson for which man incarnated in the
separated sexes of this world period to learn. This central
immortal head is Divine Love which can never be killed out.
This immortal head Hercules cut off and placed beneath a
stone, i. c., although its pure and immortal aspect cannot be
killed, yet often we must bury it for a time under the stone on
which we are striving to build our new life; that is, love must
be controlled and not permitted to interfere with the great task
which we have undertaken, 1. e., killing the hydra of lust
It then becomes the foundation stone of our spiritual life.
The eight mortal heads of misunderstanding, profana-
tion, pollution, self-indulgence, lasciviousness, phallicism, de-
bauchery and perversion can and must be lopped off and
seared with the Divine Fire so they can never grow again,
84 The Key of Destiny
while the immortal head must be transmuted into creative
power.
It will be noted that Hercules entered upon this labor in
the full vigor of his manly strength and not as a hero who
strives to conquer by fasting, depleting his body and emascu-
lating his powers.
He who hopes to attain to the Sun Initiation must, like Her-
cules, cut off and sear with Divine Fire the eight mortal heads
of this terrible Hydra which dwells in the springs and swanips
of our earth life and trails its slimy length over all man's fair-
est creations. Number 8, being the Number of Evolution and
Scorpio being the eighth sign, emphasizes the great step in
evolution that the lopping off of these eight heads will bring
about. It will be observed that while Hercules was able to
lop them off one by one with the aid of his dub, which we have
said was manly strength, yet only when he used the Sacred
Fire and seared their roots could he prevent them from grow-
ing and multiplying.
The most casual glance over life as we see it shows us
that for every one of these eight heads, or degraded expres-
sions of this Hydra, which we try to cut off instead of trans-
muting and allctwing the force of the eight to be indrawn
into the ninth or immortal head, two grow in its stead and
the monster waxes stronger and more deadly. Only the earnest
aspirant for Sun Initiation who depends not upon manly
strength (his dub) alone, but upon the strength of the Divine
Flame (the fiery missiles used by Hercules), can so transmute
this force that the immortal head shall swallow up the mortal
beads, even as 9 swallows 8 and Initiation (number 9) trans..
forms the experiences of evolution (number 8) into Wisdom.
It is the perversion of this force which brings to man most
of his unhappy experiences; of suffering, disease and death.
Hence it has become almost a truism with many that love
on earth cannot exist without sorrow. It can, however, when
its eight mortal heads are destroyed. For ordinarily, earthly
love is but a fitful shadow of that Divine Love which is the
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 85
heritage of every incarnating Soul. This shadow can never
take definite form on earth without being separated into its
two opposite poles, "The twain who are made one," since
this is a world of duality. Hence there is no man or woman
who is not a separated part which must ultimately find its
complementary part, and only Divine Love can ever re-unite
the fragments and fuse them into one. Thus every incar-
nated being must in the long journey away from his Father's
house feel more or less of a homesick loneliness, for that
which so filled his being when in the Father's home has now
apparently been lost. Divine Love finds it hard to breathe the
air of earth, for joy is an essential part of its life.
As the Soul clothes itself again and again in garments
of flesh it is ever urged on by great loneliness to seek for its
complementary mate. But alas, this is like seeking for the
living among the dead, until the Soul awakens to the grand
truth that it is immortal. And since immortality embraces
completeness, the awakening brings the realization that the
separation is but temporary.
Therefore in the one immortal head we will find all that
is needed to make us complete, but as long as we seek for
love and satisfaction in any one or all of the 8 mortal heads
of sex, we are doomed to sorrow and disappointment. We
seek again and again, and opportunity after opportunity is
granted us, yet the memory of our true Soul-love always
haunts us, even though obscured, pushed hack and not per-
mitted to enter our consciousness. But if we will but "Be
still" and wait instead of running to and fro seeking, in God's
good time we will find it; for nothing can fully obliterate the
Soul memory or kill the immortal head. It may be hidden
under a stone for a time, but it will surely come forth. There..
fore let us rest in the assurance that what God bath joined
nothing can put asunder, and that those whom God joined in
the beginning of time were perfect parts of a whole and not
misfits, and must ultimately be united.
So often we are like children picking up mussel shells on
86 The Kqj of Destiny
the sea shore and trying to fit together the two pieces which
are but half shells. Only when we find two parts still holding
to each other can we make them fit, for these are the ones
which God bath joined together, and no other half shell in
all the ocean will fit so as to make a home for a living creature.
\Te, like the little mussel shells, have been so tossed by the
sea of life that the two parts of our outer expression are
often torn apart and widely separated, and the living creature
which needs both halves of the shell for its protection, home,
and true life, is seemingly lost. Let us compare this creature
to the Soul which needs its dual parts to make it one and
give it protection and a true home in the sea of humanity.
The idea that one physical body could in itself manifest
perfect duality is reversing the law. It is the twain who
must be made one, not the one twain. The two separated
manifestations of the Soul which are one in heaven must
experience their evolution on earth subject to the law of
earth-life (duality), yet must again become one. But never
can this happen physically, since the physical body being
earthy is ever subject to the law of the pairs of opposites,
the law governing all physical manifestation. But it must
be done mentally, psychically and spiritually. In each world
in which it manifests the Soul must clothe itself in a body
appropriate to that world; in the world of separation (duality)
in separated bodies, but in the spiritual world of oneness
(unity) both manifestations (masculine and feminine) can
enter into the one spiritual body (or ark) from which both
originally descended into separate physical manifestation. This
must be accomplished while all that is mortal is still like the two
sides of a mussel shell, each side complementary to the other
and each needed to hold fast within it the living organism
(Higher Self).
Therefore we as mortals can take a lesson from the mussel.
We must use our higher intelligence to recognize the great
truth, namely, that only our own can bring us completion,
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 87
victory and joy, and we must refuse even to try to match
our half shell with a half that does not belong to us, else the
united shells will always be empty, for no living creature can
dwell therein.
CHAPTER XII.
The Twelvc Labors of Hercuics (continued)
uThere is not the slightest doubt that Hercules is
Baladeva in Greek dress. Arrian notices the great
similarity between the Theban and the Hindu Her-
cules."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, III, 260.
THE THIRD LABOR (Cancer)
The Capture of the Kcryncian Doe
Hercules' next labor was the capture of the golden horned
Keryneian Doe which was sacred to Artemis; both Artemis
and Diana being symbols of the moon. This doe therefore
symbolizes the feminine power of intuition which is the gift
of the Great Mother manifesting through Cancer, the sheath
of the moon.
Intuition is a Soul-faculty that was highly developed in
the Sibyls and Priestesses of the ancient temples, for it was
they who were supposed to receive the true spiritual inspira-
tion from the gods, hence paid great attention to the develop-
ment of intuition. The Sibyl was regarded as a sacred per-
sonage and was surrounded by congenial conditions and
secluded from intercourse with any one who could disturb
or divert the pure stream of intuition and inspiration. Such
Sibyls were highly sensitive psychics who bad to be pro-
tected from unpleasant or upsetting conditions and vibra-
tions. The information and teaching reived through these
Sibyls was recorded by the priests, who received it rever-
ently and gave it out to the people in a form which their
judgment decided would be best understood by the masses.
Hence we find this doe with golden horns (horns symboliz-
ing powers) belonging to Artemis, represents a strictly fem-
inine attribute, yet Hercules in spite of his masculinity bad
88-
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 89
to capture it or unfold this feminine side of his nature. Like
many a hero, the doe of intuition led him a weary chase, for
only after pursuing it an entire year (cycle) did he finally
capture it and bear it on his broad shoulders to Mykenai, the
temple of his Soul.
We are told that Apollo (the Sun) and Arternis (the
Moon) disputed his right to the prize and that Artemis even
accused him of slaying her golden horned doe. This symbol
shows that even in those days women claimed a monopoly
of intuition and were apt to say that man's quiet masculine
way of receiving and expressing it killed it. And man even
today is apt to find both the Sun and the Moonhis intellect
and the feminine quality of love within himdisputing over
his possession of the gift, hence only the strength of a
Hercules can carry the golden horned doe safely on his broad
shoulders. The Voice of the Soul speaks only to one who
has stilled intellectual activity or made it a servant to in-
tuition; who has determinedly listened to the Still Small
Voice of Divine Love which speaks in the heart. Only when
we have temporarily stilled the many loud and persistent voices
of earthly passions and sensations are our ears attuned to the
Inner Voice.
THE FOURTH LABOR (Libra)
The Capture of the Erynzanthian Boar
The fourth labor of Hercules was to capture and take alive
the fierce boar that wasted the town of Psophis. When
captured, Hercules carried its hind quarters and forced it
to walk forward on its fore legs all the way to Mykenai.
This boar symbolized gluttony which must be taken alive and
tamed or controlled, i. e., eating cannot be killed but should be
controlled. We must eat to live and should enjoy our food,
yet we must not eat merely to please our palate or gorge our
animal body, hence the law of balance must here be carefully
applied.
In the way Hercules undertook this task we see the dire
90 The Key of Destiny
results of unbalanced appetite, for we find him feasting with
the Centaurs who soon became inflamed with wine and when
Hercules, like many an enthusiastic but unwise reformer, shot
arrows at them, in spite of the fact that these arrows were
shot from the bow given him by Apollo, the one wise and
good centaur Cheironthe power of true (immortal) dis-
crimination which holds the reins and guides the thoughts
was killed by a wound Hercules would gladly have healed.
The pain of the wound drove Cheiron to exchange his immor-
tality for the mortality of Prometheus. Also by another
unhappy accident his friend Pholosbodily strengthwas
killed by dropping one of Hercules' poisoned arrows on his
foot (understanding). Hercules pursued the boar high up on
the mountain and there in the deep snow snared it.
When we essay to balance gluttony with fasting so often
we find we have killed our great friend, bodily strength,
through a poisoning of our understanding. Then our best
friend can no longer sustain us, for his strength and vigor
of life are killed out. Yet when we attain a true balance,
i. e., put eating in its proper place as a necessary part of our
care for the friend (body) and do not drop a poisoned arrow
on its understanding, we will find that the good Centaur
Cheiron (discrimination) instead of being killed has but
voluntarily exchanged his immortality for mortality and be-
come Prometheus that h may bring the Divine Fire of mind
down to humanity.
THE FIFTH LABOR (Aquarius)
Cleansing the Augean Stables
The next labor was to deanse the Augean stables where
the offal had collected to such an extent that alt tillage of
the surrounding land was stopped. This Hercules accom-
plished by turning the waters of the two great rivers Alpheias
and Peneios from their courses and maldng them run through
the stables. These stables were exceedingly filthy, not having
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 91
been cleansed for thirty yearsor 3 cycles of 10. These
stables are the dwelling place of the cattle or the lower ani-
mal appetites and desires in the physical body, the same
stable in which The Christ must be born and cradled in the
manger where the animal seeks its food. When the Christ-
man, or Sun Initiate, reaches his mystic age of 30 years he
must begin his real work, just as Jesus began his at the same
age by cleansing the temple of the money changers. He finds
these stables very filthy, full of all kinds of impurities, but
this is a task which every Candidate for Christ-hood must
perform ere he can pass his Sun Initiation and the Myth of
Hercules shows us the way. We must turn the living waters
into this stable to cleanse it so that the animal nature may
still abide there, but in purity and health.
The two rivers are firstly, the River of Life or the breath.
The Candidate for Initiation must learn to use the breath to
cleanse and purify his body and see to it that the breath stream
is not polluted by the excreta of the animal so often retained
in the body; and secondly, the River of Thought, which he
must deliberately turn into channels which will cleanse the
body from pollution, i. e., from wild imaginings, selfishness,
lust and disease-producing thoughts. For the body will respond
to the cleansing power of these two rivers even as the Augean
Stables did to the rivers Alpheias and Peneios. Thoughts
indulged in continuously deepen the channels in the brain just
as a river eats out its bank or deepens its channel. This
task Hercules found difficult and only when Athene (Wis-
dom) came to his aid, was he successful.
THE SIXTH LABOR (Sagittarius)
Killing the Man-eating Birds of Styntphalos
The next labor was that of clearing the marshes of Arcadia
of the great man-eating birds. Arcadia is a land of sim-
plicity and earthly happiness, symbolizing gaiety and a care-
free,, thoughtless life. To dwell perpetually in such a state,
92 The Key of Destiny
however, is impossible for the unfolding Soul, for it soon feels
itself shut in. Hence Arcadia is represented as beir.g shut in by
extensive marshes of creature comforts, childish pleasures and
vapid amusements, into any one of which the undeveloped
Soul may easily sink if his thoughts (birds) nest there. There
great man-eating birds made their homes, protected by a dense
growth of underbrush which made access to them difficult.
Mythologists have generally considered that these birds repre-
sent the death-dealing pestilences which arise from great areas
of stagnant water or marshes, but birds are universal symbols
of our thoughts, which should ever fly upward into the pure
ether and lift us above the earthly things. But if we seek to
dwell in Arcadia, rather than to seek for our home in the New
Jerusalem which cometh down from heaven, we force our birds
of life to propagate in the miasmic marshes which surround
Arcadia. Then, instead of being free to lift us above the earth,
they become like birds of prey, feeding upon our very flesh.
It has ever been recognized that a life of ease soon tends to
generate such man-eating thought-forces as selfishness, in-
difference to others and many other life sapping thoughts,
but the higher aspect of Sagittarius gives to man the power
of guiding and controlling thought, and of holding in his right
hand the reins of this fiery steed, forcing it to carry him
up the steep mountain path until it becomes the winged steed
Pegasus which ultimately enables him to soar above the earth.
But ere he can do this, he must kill the stymphalian birds.
And like Hercules, we can only clear the marshes of our
environment when we clash the brazen symbols given us by
Athene and compel our stymphalian birds to take to the air
where they can be seen, recognized and killed one by one.
While the Centaur or the horse and his rider is the symbol
generally assigned to Sagittarius, yet since birds symbolize
thought, horses symbolize,the intellectual activity which we
must guide and train ere the thought or Bird of Life can
carry us safely through the various realms of both the
mental and astrd worlds. The Sun Initiate must kill every
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 93
bird of prey or destructive thought, even if it has risen into
the air or seems to be a higher truth, for if it has its nest in
the marshes it will descend again to hatch its young. He
must discriminate and not be deceived by a seeming angel
of light, in which garb astral messengers frequently come to
him. Saith The Voice of the Silence: "Having become in-
different to objects of perception, the pupil must seek out
the Rajah of the senses, the Thought Producer, he who awakes
illusion. The mind is the Slayer of the Real. Let the Dis-
ciple slay the Slayer." In other words, we must clash the
Cymbals of Wisdom and not be deceived by any bird (thought)
which simply rises temporarily only to settle down in a fresh
spot and feed upon us. If we study carefully the sophistries of
many of man's so-called "advanced teachings," we can easily
discern that the birds of prey, such as ambition, self-indulgence
and above all perverted sex teachings, have only risen a little
above the marsh in which they have been hatched and are
seeking a new home.
CHAPTER XIII.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules (Continued)
"The Occult Doctrine explains that Hercules was
the incarnation of one of the seven Lords of the
Flame . . . That his incarnations occurred dur-
ing the Third, Fourth and Fifth Root-Races, and
that his worship was brought into Egypt from TinIra
and India by the later immigrants."The Secret
Doctrine, Blavatsky, III, 259.
THE SEVENTH LABOR (Taurus)
The Capture of the Cretan Bull
This labor was to capture and bring to the mainland the
sacred bull which Poseidon (Neptune) had caused to be
born from the sea to be a fitting sacrifice to Minos, King of
Crete. This Hercules accomplished by subduing and be-.
striding the bull as if it were a horse and guiding it through
the sea to the mainland. The bull (Taurus) symbolizes
the animal procreative force, pugnacity and the untiring labor
and toil by which we must accomplish all things upon this
mundane plane. The sea is the sea of humanity. Out of
this great sea. Neptune, the ruler of its unfathomable depths,
has caused to be born a sacred bull, strong to labor on earth
for sacred ideals, yet invariably captured and forced to labor
under the yoke of the king of this world.
In fact, this is the fundamental meaning of the biblical
references to burnt offerings and the sacrifice of bulls and
goats. We sacrifice to the world the strength and labor of the
bull and the ability of the goat (Capricorn) to climb to the
heights when we use all that these signs symbolize only to
bring to us worldly advance and attainments. Hence, instead
of our reward being the satisfaction, peace and content which
our Soul craves, it is the guerdon of the king we have served,
i. e., dissatisfaction, unrest, discouragement and sorrow. But
when we sacrifice all our powers as burnt offerings to the
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 95
Christ by involdng the Fire of Divine Love upon all our efforts,
our toil and ability to climb are rewarded by the peace and
satisfaction of Soul which comes only with spiritual growth
and enlightenment. "For if the blood of bulls and of goats,
and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to
the purifying of the flesh: how much more shall the blood of
Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without
spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve
the living God."1
The sacrifice of our powers to the world is also symbolized
by the Minotaur, a monster with the body of a man and the
head of a bull, confined within the labyrinth of physical condi-
tions and devouring our most beautiful ideals (youths and
maidens) until slain by the awakened Soul (Theseus) under
the guidance of Love and Intuition (Ariadne). The bull is
given to man by the Sun God, and only when the Soul weaves
out of the conditions of life a thread of Divine Light can he
find his way out of the labyrinth and no longer be a prey to
the Minotaur or the perverted forces of Taurus.2
This sacrifice also points to the passing of the Taurian
Age in which the sacred Apis (bull) was the object sym-
bolically worshipped even as we might say Christians wor-
ship the cross, although both were intended only as symbols.
Neptune symbolizes the underlying evolutionary power
(Karma) ever ruling the affairs of this restless sea of human-
ity, and from the ebb and flow of its tides bringing to mankind
the experiences which will result in ultimate good.
Hercules was given the task of capturing this sacred bull,
or controlling the labor necessitated by the working out of
his Karma. This he accomplished in the only way possible,
namely, by riding the bull through the sea of humanity and
guiding it by reins, even as a horse is guided by a careful
driver. This task each candidate for Sun Initiation must
accomplish. For only as we can master conditions in our
1 hebrew, ix, 13-14.
2SCC TI,e Kej to the Unverze. Cnrtss. 252.
96 The Key of Destiny
daily lives and guide all our toil and labor through the surg-
ing billows of life, making every effort work toward the
accomplishment of our higher task, can we sanctify it and
prevent this sacred bull from being sacrificed to the King
of this world. If all that is symbolized by th sacred bull
is controlled and guided, instead of being sacrificed to an
earthly king, it will be laid upon the altar of the Christ as
a glad and willing offering. This means that everything we
do we must do for the Christ, and tiat the same effort, labor
and persistency that we put forth to accomplish our worldly
business must be put forth to serve the highest good of
humanity. The meaning of the word sacrifice is to make
sacred, hence if we sacrifice the bull and all that it symbolizes,
we have made it sacred. Indeed this was the idea back of
the ancient worship of the bull and of all sacrifices. Hence
we capture this bull when we sanctify every labor and task,
be it ever so trivial.
Alas, however, we find the bull bard to ride through the
sea, and like Hercules, even when we have guided it safely
through the sea to the City of Tiryns, a city fabled to have
been built by the Cyclops, we often fail to control it and it
escapes and roams over the land mangling men and women.
The Cyclops were said to be three in number, namely, Brontes
(thunder), Steropes (lightning) and Arges (whirling), and
to have had but one eye which was situated in the middle of the
forehead. The symbology is plain as to where we are to guide
our sacred bull, namely, into the citadel which can be discerned
only by the opening of the third eye, the Eye of Wisdom in
the center of the forehead; for this citadel is built by the
whirling forces of thunder and lightning, i. e., the cyclic ex-
periences by which we learn to hear the Divine Voice and see
the Fire from heaven descend.
This is a fate too often experienced even by the most earnest
and ardent aspirants for truth. They harness the sacred bull,
yet in their very eagerness to put him to work, they permit
bun to get beyond control and escape. This is the result
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 97
of misapplied zeal in spiritual work, for nothing so dis-
rupts or mangles the body of Christ's Church on earth as
the misapplied ardor and zeal which manifests itself in sec-
brian bickerings, jealousy, antagonism and intolerance of the
views of others.
THE EIGHTH LABOR (Aries)
Capturing the Man-eating Mares of Diorncdes
The eighth labor of Hercules was the task of catching and
taming the man-eating mares of Diomedes, the son of Ares
(the god Mars), which were running wild and doing great
damage. And since Aries is the sign through which Mars,
the planet of war, ambition to rule and warlike passion can
the most readily find expression, we may infer that these
mares were powerful brood-mares, noted for breeding a
strain of war horses, hence were savage and untamed. This
idea is carried out by the fact that these mares were the
property of Diomedes, the favorite of Athene. He was a
great warrior, in fact one of the bravest of the Greek heroes
in the Trojan war. Horses symbolize intellectual activity
and at the time this chapter is written we see many such wild
war horseswild theories of industry, finance, government
and society such as find expression through Bolshevism,
anarchy, ct ceterarunning amuck and devastating the fair
earth, and we are eagerly looking for a Hercules or a great
Sun Initiate who shall tame them.
Just as a bird symbolizes thought flying free in the ether,
as we have already sa4, so a horse symbolizes the intellectual
activity which must be harnessed and driven by the will and
made to draw the chariot of man's intellect whithersoever
ho wills it to go. When so controlled the intellectual activity
like the horse becomes a powerful, faithful and reliable serv-
5nt and friend. But if we give free rein to this force it runs
away with us. Or if we use our intellect to devise cruelty
or to get the better of our fellow man, we have harnessed
98 The Key of Destiny
our chariot to war-horses and woe to us if we have not the
strength to control them. In fact, man-eating horses very
well express intellectual activity run wild, to riot and destroy.
For instance, the greater the intellectual activity when un-
controlled, the more Bolshevism and anarchy it devises.
Like Hercules, the Initiate must have the courage to face
and the strength to conquer such horses, whether they run
wild in his own brain, or like the horses of Diomedes, are
let loose on the world. But after catching these we must
avoid leaving them in charge of Abderos to hold, as did
Hercules (Abderos meaning stupidity), or like the horses
in the myth they will first trample Abderos to death and
will then be turned loose to meet their death later in the
highlands, harried by wild beasts. Stupidity when overrun
and trampled by intellect (Bolshevism) only too often per-
mits our horses to become the prey of the wild beasts of lust,
revenge and atrocity. And these wild beasts soon harry to
death the strong horses which could have been such faithful
friends and powerful helps to us. We have all seen this ex-
emplified in the results of the revolution in Russia. Even
if we bury Abderos (stupidity) with obsequious honors, soon
there will grow up around his tomb an entire city named
after him, as in the myth.
This labor exemplifies the symbology of number 8 (evolu-
tion) as it indicates the evolution of uncontrolled thought
into constructive idealism; a step in evolution which all, both
individuals and nations, must pass.
Aries, the sign of intellectual activity, must give to the
world horses that are tamed and trained that they may
breed constructive thoughts instead of destructive (war).
And we must see to it that wisdom rather than stupidity
takes care of them while the intellect is attending to its maul..
fold activities. Then indeed will men find them strong to
labor, faithful to support him under all conditions, and help-
liii to draw his chariot of life up the steep Mountain of
Attainment.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 99
THE NINTH LABOR (Virgo)
Seizing the Girdle of Hipjiolyte
Since number 9 is the Number of Initiation, we are not
surprised to find that the ninth labor, the seizing of the girdle
of the Amazon Queen Hippolyte, was the supreme test given
to Hercules. No longer was he confronted by wild beasts
(his animal passions and desires) or by man (his human
faculties) but by Amazons, i. e., by wonn who are taking
the places generally conceded as belonging exclusively to
men. They were warriors or feminine disciples on the Path,
equipped to fight as strenuously as men. This is a question
that for ages has proved a barrier to man in his search for
truth, many societies refusing woman a place in their lodges,
and many, especially in the dark ages, refusing to believe
it possible for her to tread the Path of Discipleship, to fight
fearlessly the enemies within and without and to stand side
by side with man. Yet in this wonderful myth of Hercules
we find even this mooted question dealt with and its solution
marking the ninth step or labor of the Candidate. The
Amazons, like many another little understood myth, have been
covered with obloquy; for that which man does not under-
stand he is prone to condemn. Like the proverbial dog of
whom it was said: "Give a dog a bad name and hang him,"
the Amazons have been held up as coarse unsexed females
and many crimes attributed to them. Tennyson alone among
the inspired poets seems to have caught a glimpse of the real
idea conveyed by the Amazonian Myth when he puts into the
mouth of the Princess Ida these words:
"Thereupon she took
A bird's-eye view of all the ungracious past;
Glanced at the legendary Amazon
As emblematic of a nobler age."
A careful attention to the meaning of words will alone help
irt IL
100 The Key of Destiny
us to unde'stani better what this great ninth labor con-
sisted of.
The Amazons lived in a remote land near the shores of
the Euxine sea. The location of this purely mythical sea by
some has been made identical with the modern Black Sea, but
that sea by no means fulfills the various references to the
Euxine, hence we prefer to accept it as symbolizing that
part of the great sea of humanity near which all those women
aspirants for the higher life are dwelling. The meaning of
the name of the sea ("hospitable, well, good") shows it to be
an inner state of consciousness, and it is described as being
"in a remote district of Asia." Their chief interest, we
are told, was war, 1. e., the inner war between spirit and
matter, and that motherhood was secondary. Yet their Queen
Hippolyte (meaning to loose, or letting horses loose) wore
as her chief pride the girdle of Venus, a symbol of divine
motherhood, which she had won by her prowess. But surely
this gift was not bestowed for physical prowess!
It was said that they reared only the female children, whose
right breasts they cut off at birth so as to facilitate the
handling of the bow. They also put to death, or returned to
their fathers, all male children. This can only be understood
by a careful study of its mystical symbology. A new born in-
fant symbolizes the acquisition of a new truth. A new born
male infant is a positive truth pertaining to the outer life and
earthly affairs. A female infant symbolizes the acquisition
of a new truth pertaining to spiritual things, for the female
is always negative on the physical plane, but positive on the
spiritual, while the male is positive on the physical but negative
on the spiritual Therefore the Amazons made physical
motherhood a secondary consideration not becauso they failed
to recognize its sacredness, but because of their greater desire
to bring forth spiritual children. "Seek ye first the kingdom
cf God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be
added unto you."
As to cutting off the right breast lest it interfere with the
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 101
use of the bow, the esoteric truth concealed in this symbol
is that just back of the right nipple there is an important life-
center which, when correlated with the life-force passing
through it, admits the consciousness into a positive contact
with and realization of physical events transpiring at a dis-
tance. It. also gives the power of prophecy and of psychic
insight into physical happenings, as well as the ability to read
the minds of others, also to enter the consciousness of trees,
plants and animals and have control overt them. Near the
left breast is the heart-center, aid the spiritual children
brought forth through this center must be nourished from the
heart of the Great Mother. The development of this center
gives ecstasy, spiritual vision and opens to the consciousness
the doors to the Holy City. The symbology of this Amazonian
practice proves that these devoted women sought for spiritual
development rather than psychic gifts, which in those days
were so much sought after by the Sybils of the various Tem-
ples, even as they are today.
Like many another sincere yet mistaken Candidate, Hercules
felt it important to wrest from Hippolyte the Girdle of Venus,
and to dispute her right to loose the horses of spiritual war-
fare. To his surprise she met him more than half way and
offered to yield up to him her girdle without a struggle.
But, again like too many seekers after truth, Hercules killed
the Amazon Queen, who in this sense was the feminine side
of his own nature (love, compassion, intuition, ef cetera),
his true helpmeet, who would have been his inspiration and
comforter had his masculine self-sufficiency, egotism and sus--
picion of everything feminine permitted him to recognize and
accept her help. Quite naturally he found a still harder task
growing out of his failure, 1. e., the rescue of Hesione
(daughter of Laomedon, King of Troy) from the sea monster
sent by Poseidon to devour the people because of their breach
of faith. This sea monster is again sex. And again like
many another would-be anchorite, Hercules rejected and killed
his Amazon Queen, or his true Divine Love, only to be con-
102 The Key of Destiny
fronted by the necessity of rescuing a lesser tie from the
devouring force of this monster. This he did by jumping
down its throat and cutting his way out through its belly,
quite typical of the experience of many who kill the true
love of their mate only to find themselves engulfed or swal-
lowed by the lower aspects of this force and compelled to
learn through suffering and a life and death struggle that
nothing brought to us by the Great Law is to be despised, but
is to be used and the lesson it can teach built into our spiritual
life as growth. Many Candidates for Initiation spend life after
life refusing to learn this important lesson, for every time
they reject their true helper and are engulfed by another,
even though they seem to cut their way out, yet they have
set up karmic ties which will retard them on the Path until
fully worked out. Or, like Hercules, after they have ful-
filled what they consider to be their part they find that the
horses of Zeus (the illumination of the intellect) which had
been promised as a reward for this labor, are withheld.
How often we hear the complaint: "I have done every-
thing. I am sure I have fulfilled any Karma I may have
made by my failures and mistaken marriage, yet the Lords
of Karma (Zeus) still withhold from me the illumination
of my intellect which I expected." Thus do many Disciples
on the Path utterly fail to realize the divinity of true love
and think it but a snare or temptation to be killed out. Hip-
polyte seeing Hercules, a true Sun Initiate, would gladly have
yielded him her Girdle of Divine Motherhood or that en-
circling Love which marks true inspirationthe ring of pro-
tecting force extending around every true woman, the out-
reaching emanations of purity and innate Mother Love. Yet
Hercules, deceived by the clamor of her warrior sisters,
doubted her sincerity and had to pay the penalty for his lack
of intuitive recognition of her.
CHAPTER XIV.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules (Continued)
"In the Greek fiction, Hercules, the Sun-god
'destroyed the doctrine of eternal punishment by
dragging Kerberus from the nether world.' And
it was Herakies again who liberated Pro-
metheus . . . by descending into Hades
and the Christian Church also makes her incarnate
god descend to the dreary Plutonic regions."In.ç
Unveiled, Blavatsky, I, 299, II, 515.
THE TENTH LABOR (Pisces)
Capturing the Oxen of Geryoneus
Near the distant river of Okeanos (Oceanus) was the island
Erytheia, on which lived a human monster, Geryoneus, having
three bodies and possessing a world-famous herd of red cattle
which were guarded by Eurytion (shepherd) and the two-
headed dog Orthos (offered in sacrifice), a brother of the
never sleeping hell-hound Cerberus. Hercules' tenth labor
was to capture this herd and carry it across sea and land to
Mykenai.
Little is known of this island except that it was supposed
to be in the far West. In truth it is a mythical isle described
in Tue Voice of the Silence as follows: "Build high, Lanoo,
the wall that shall hedge in the Holy Isle, the dani that will
protect thy mind from pride and satisfaction at thought of
the great feat achieved. . . Aye, build it strong, lest the fierce
rush of battling waves that mount and beat its shore from
out the great World Maya's Ocean swallow up the pilgrim
and the Isle.. . Thine Isle is the deer, thy thoughts the
hounds that weary and pursue his progress to the stream
of Life."
Since the name Erytheia means "red," and the cattle were
"red cattle," mythologists usually associate this island with
1age 63.
WI,
104 The Key of Destiny
the setting Sun as it drops into the ocean. But as the name
is also given to a star in the constellation Piscesforming
the knot which joins the two fishes composing the constella-
tionwe can plainly see that the tenth labor was to capture,
overcome and control the adverse influences of this sign and
allow its higher influences to manifest This sign is a watery,
unstable and double sign, and rules the feet (understanding).
The sign Pisces, being the sheath of Jupiter (Wisdom), the
positive and negative expressions (the two fishes) must be
tied together with the knot of understanding. Solomon tells
us: "With all thy getting get understanding." As under-
standing comes only from the harvest of experience it may
well be assigned to the "far West," the place of the harvest
or to the red and golden glow of the setting sun dropping
out of sight into the ocean of eternity, yet leaving behind the
experiences of each day, to gather them up and rise again
in the new day, the garnered wisdom of the past day being
tied to the new by the knot of understanding.
Having at last found this island it was the task of Hercules
to overcome the human monster Geryoneus (meaning howler
or raver) and take from him his herd of red cattle. Geryon-
eus was the son of Chrysaor (lightning) and the sea nymph
Kalliroe, daughter of Oceanus. Here we again see the double
sign Pisces indicated, for the human monster is the Piscean
character gone awry. As Pisces is an occult sign, we often see
this awryness manifested in psychics and mediums of the
subjective type who are not only eccentric and obstinate, but
in the lower types are dishonest and unfaithful. Here indeed
do we find a human monster with three bodiesphysical,
astral, mentaluncorrelated and all awry, for one of the
greatest needs of a Piscean character is to have pure and true
conditions physically and psychically (in the astral body), and
a well balanced mental conception of the forces he is con-
tacting.
In the two guardians of these cattle we find the dual forces
of the sign, namely, Eurytion, a good shepherd, who if per-
Tue Twelve Labors of Hercules 105
mitted would watch over the cattle and keep them in their
place, and the two-headed dog which, although a brother to
the dog Cerberus who guards the gate of Hell, nevertheless is
capable of being either a good friend, ready to be offered up
in sacrifice, or a fierce, snarling, ravening beast, defending
with his life that which is symbolized by the red cattle.
The heads of Cerberus who guards the Gate of Hell are
sensation, desire and the good intentions which are said to
form the pavement of hell. "Throw a sop to Cerberus" is
a familiar saying which means that when one seeks to indulge
his lower desires or sensations he throws the sop of good
intentions to the dog Cerberus, who with his serpent's tail
then lashed to fury his mane of serpent's heads, thus devising
subtle excuses for that we wish to do. This proceeding soon
reduces our good intentions to the floor of hell and we find
as a resting place for our feet (understanding) only the
molten lava bed of an erupting volcano. The two heads of
his brother, Orthos, who guards the red cattle, arc obstinacy
and a snarling irritability ever ready to fight and bite, traits
of an undeveloped Piscean character which must be overcome
crc the red cattle can be obtained.
Most remarkable of all was the truly Piscean way in which
Hercules dealt with this task, namely, by gathering up the
cattle and placing them in the golden cup given him by Helios.
Of all the signs of the zodiac, the children of Pisces have
the power, when determined to do so, to place all their red
cattle in the cup of Divine Love and let the rays of the Spiritual
Sun transmute them. But, alas, like Hercules, these Piscean
children often let some of the cattle escape when the gadflies
(little things) annoy them while being transported across the
sea of life; for they are generally super-sensitive to little
things, especially lack of understanding and appreciation.
However, by the power and strength of the Sun God, like
Hercules they will some day bring them all safely to the
city of Mykenai and sacrifice them to the gods.
Mykenai was a Greek city which consisted of an acropolis
106 The Key of Destiny
standing on a bill and a lower town in a valley. These two
parts of the city were separated by a high wall or rampart,
but were connected by a wonderful walled passage and gate
called the "Gateway of the Lion." This is indeed Pisces
with its dual aspect which can only be entered and conquered
through the Gate of the Lion, or the gate of courage and
love which carries us through the walled up passage of self-
depreciation and depression, traits only too common to Piscean
characters. We also find in these characters a tendency to
build a high rampart between the city on the hill and their
city in the valley and to live in each one alternately.
- THE ELEVENTH LABOR (Gemini)
Obtaining the Goldcn Apples of Hesperides
A remarkable analogy in the myth of Hercules is its cor-
respondence, not only to the zodiac, but also with the decimal
and duodecimal systems. The decimal system was held sacred
and esoteric for ages, while the duodecimal system, in which
the computation was founded upon the zodiac, was given
to the world because containing less of what in those days
of the unenlightened masses was considered dangerous knowl-
edge. The decimal system is based on the numerology of 10,
the Number of Completion, which is made of the 1 (the One
God) and the mysterious Cypher, a full k-nowledge of which
can be and was used in magic. Hence this system was care-
fully guarded by the Priests, while the duo-decimal (12)
being composed of the human digit 2 dominated by the One
God, pertained to the outer manifestation of the triune God-
head as expressed in his works, 1+2=3. Number 10 was
also held sacred by the Egyptian priests because of its con-
nection with the sacred rites of Initiation. And by Hermes
it was called "the Mother of the Soul, life and light being
here reunited." Also among the ancients the zodiac had
but 10 signs instead of 12 as at present, Virgo, Libra and
Scorpio being considered as one sign.2
2 Fo paztculari sce ike ICey to Ike UrÅverse Curtu. 347.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 107
As we have already said "The signs Virgo, Libra and
Scorpio were united in 1 sign, combining in the one sign
masculine (Scorpio) and feminine (Virgo) united by the
sex attraction (Libra) balancing the 2.
"That early zodiac represented man before the separation
of the sexes, when the androgynous man of course combined
the 3 now separated expressions of life in 1."
That change occurred during the latter part of the Third
Race. The ten signs applied to hermaphrodite humanity and
the twelve to the separated sexes. The twelve had to be
considered after the sexes separated, for since the Divine
Triangle could not be fully expressed within the circle of
the mundane plane except in 12 signs, so the Divine could
not find its highest expression in man until the separation of
the sexes had taken place.
Virgo in one sense expresses the super-conscious or higher
mind, yet it might better be said to express the feminine
or the love aspect of the Higher Self. Scorpio, in one aspect,
represents the lower mind, but more completely the lower
animal nature which must be lifted up on eagles' wings.
Libra, the perfect balance, can be attained only through the
mind recognizing these two natures and balancing them in
perfect equilibrium, for it must be through the mind that this
mid-point of balance is reached. But if the balance is made
in the mind only the work is but half done. Hence we must
look for a deeper meaning in these signs than merely the
mental; they must be balanced first in the mind, then in the
body and then in the environment. In other words, man
must attain to a balance of the earthly and the Divine, recog-
nizing that nothing that is given him can be despised or
cast out; that all must be lifted up and balanced; that the
Divine Trinity must find a central point of balance in the
lowest plane of his nature. Also, when he has lifted up and
balanced his own nature he has still the task of helping to
Th. K. So Ike LlRivevze. Curtu. 343.
108 The Key of Destiny
uplift and balance and equalize everything in nature and in
the lower spheres of manifestation, over all of which he
has been made Lord.
In the early Races, while the two signs were one, man lived
his androgynous life in the so-called Garden of Eden, but
when the separation took place and they were cast out of
Eden (The one androgynous body), the Lord (Law) God
said unto them: "Cursed be the ground for thy sake." Then
He placed Libra between the other two signs and thus set
before man the great task of this physical earth expression,
namely, to find out how to balance the two separated natures
represented by Virgo and Scorpio. When this balance has
been attained God will say to man: "Ble.c.ced be the earth for
thy sake." Man cursed the ground not through original sin, but
through his mistaken use of the forces and materials placed
at his disposal; for use them he must, since only through
the separation could the Divine find complete expression in
this world of duality. Hence the blessing of the earth, or
the perfecting of God's manifestation through His works
upon this planet, can be brought about only when humanity
realizes its mission and takes this advanced step.
In this myth Eruystheus originally gave Hercules but ten
labors to perform, yet because in two of the labors he had
received help, two more labors were given him to perform
crc he could fulfill the prophecy of the Priestess of Apollo:
cFrom this day forth thy name shall no more be Alkeides
but Herakles. In Tiryus thou shalt make thine abode and
there, serving Eruystheus, shalt thou accomplish thy labors.
When this shall be thou shalt be one of the immortals." This
prophecy very plainly points to Initiation, for all the Candi-
dates, when their labors were completed, had given to them
a new name, also were called Immortals or the "Twice Born."
The eleventh labor was to bring back the Golden Apples
of the Hesperides. These apples which symbolize pure Divine
Love and Immortal Life, have the same symbology as the
fruit of the Tree of Life in the Garden of Eden which Adam
and Eve were forbidden to eat. And like the Tree in the
midst of the Garden, the tree on which these Golden apples
grew was guarded by a deathless dragon with 100 heads. In
the Bible version the dragon becomes the serpent which was
more subtile than all the beasts of the field. This deathless
dragon bears a very dose resemblance to the Hydra slain
by Hercules in his second task, but in this case the symbology
is quite different.
These Apples, we are told, were a wedding gift of Zeus
(the Sun) to Hera or Terra (the earth) or the Divine Father
to his children of earth. The apples were preserved and guarded
by 3 beautiful and pure maidens, called the "Daughters of the
Evening-Land" (Hesperides). They were the daughters of
Erebus (darkness) and Nyx (night). Their names were
Aegle, Erytheia and Hesperis. Aegle means the "glory and
splendor of the setting Sun" or "faint breathings of the sorrow
of night." Erytheia is the isle of the West where Geryon, the
deathless dragon, dwelt, whose task it was to dose the gates of
day and thus guard the way to the Tree on which the Golden
Apples grew. He alsQ opened the gates in the morning that
the Sun might again enter the world of men. This same idea
applied to the Spiritual Sun is beautifully expressed by the
Psalmist: "Lift up your heads, 0 ye gates; and be ye lifted
up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in."3
Hesperis means "the evening Star." All these three
daughters obviously refer to the West, hence they were
said to live far away on the border of the ocean where the Sun
disappears beneath the waves. It is plain from this descrip-
tion that the way to find theIesperides and the Daughters
of the Evening Land and to safely pass the guardians is to
follow the pathway of the Sun into the darkness of the mystic
night. For the Golden Apples on the Tree of Life can be
plucked only by the hero who has learned how to let his
3Psalms. xxiv. 7.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 109
110 The Key of Destiny
consciousness be filled with the divine Sun-force, conquer
darkness and dwell ever in its illuminating rays.
This version of the Tree of Life and its pure and life-giving
fruit takes up the allegory at a later period than that of
Genesir. The three pure and beautiful maidens are the three
aspects of the Divine Motherhood, a trinity of purity, love
and wisdom which guards forever the Golden Apples of Divine
Love and keeps the memory of them alive in the dreams of
the pure in heart. These three daughters were born of Nyx
and Erebus, for only when the distractions of earth's activ-
ities have ceased and the Soul rests in the night of earth
can it meet in dreams these lovely maidens.
The deathless dragon with 100 heads symbolizes Saturn,
the great Initiator, who guards the Tree until the
Candidate has passed his 10 cycles of Perfection
(lOXlO=:l00), while the Soul's memory of its oneness with
its complementary mate ever tempts man to cat of the unripe
fruit, even if it be in the earthly similitude of the Golden
Apples. Like the Serpent of Genesis, the dragon guards the
Tree of Life by showing to man in a vague memory-picture
the desirability and, bliss of purd Love and "when the woman
saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant
to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she
took of the fruit thereof and did cat and gave also to her
husband with her, and he did eat."4
This picture when presented to the average man, unless
he be like Hercules an Enlightened One, is likely to be a
temptation and to arouse in him baser desires and lure him
on to his undoing. But in reality it is a test of his purity
and trust in the divine graciousness, and not a temptation.
God gave the memory of pure Divine Love to man as his
greatest incentive to attainment If he be not strong enough
to resst the impulse to eat of the Tree before the fruit is
ripe he must learn through suffering, and therefore the Golden
4Geezu. IlL 6.
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 111
Apples are hidden from him. Like Hercules he must per-
form difficult tasks and seek untiringly, and only when he
reaches the setting Sun, the evening of his Cycles of Perfec-
tion, will he find them.
Like every Soul before Initiation, Hercules had to seek
at random in all parts of the world, for he knew not where
the Apples were to be found. In his search he almost slew
Ares (Mars, the god of War). Then he found Nereus, the
Ancient of the Sea, a benevolent and venerable old man, full
of wisdom and skilled in prophecy. In other words, Hercules
began to listen to the Inner Voice, the Higher Self. Yet at
first this Inner Voice would not reveal the secret, for Her-
cules, like all who seek counsel from that Source, had to
prove his determination to accept only Truth, also his belief
in the Voice that revealed it to him. Only then did Nereus
give him a hint of the whereabouts of the Golden Apples;
that is, only then could Hercules compel him to do so. Nereus
even tried to escape from giving the answer by assuming
various forms, or, as is well known, the Inner Voice always
tests us by suggesting that the answer may be but imagination
or a mere astral mocker. And only when we give a definite
challenge "In the name of the living Christ" and like Her-
cules prove our determination to have only Truth, do we
receive the cryptic answer, which still left Hercules with the
task of proving his sincerity by his determined search.
After turning South Hercules also had to wrestle with
Antaios (Antaeus or Antares), the son of Poseidon. Antaios
symbolizes two things; first, the subtle force of sex attrac-
tion, 1as instanced by the fact that Antalos or Antares is the
name of a very brilliant star called "the Heart of Scorpio."
In this labor Antaios also symbolizes in a very subtle way
the temptations of astral forces which always tend to arouse
sex attraction, generally by suggesting that the Golden Apples
can be found by following the suggestions of such astral
guidance and by intimating that some acquaintance is our
complementary mate whom the astral guides can bring to us.
112 The Keij of Destiny
This is a very subtle temptation as it attacks even the strong in
the most vulnerable spot. And, like Antaios, every time
this temptation touches the earth it gains more strength.
Also such astral beings renew their astral existence by the
life-force which the yielding to such temptations by man
furnishes them. This might well be called touching the earth.
But Hercules, discovering the source of Antaios' strength,
lifted him high in the air when he wrestled with him and
thus quickly overpowered him.
Hercules also dealt quite as expeditiously with another son
of Poseidon, Bousiris, whose name means the ocean, a well
understood symbol of the astral world. This son claimed to
be a great teacher commissioned by the gods to sacrifice
every mortal he met to Zeus, i. e., to convert them to his
teachings. But even though he had Hercules apparently
securely bound upon the altar, Hercules burst his bonds and
in turn sacrificed Bousiris. Similarly every one, even when
bound by astral teachers, by calling upon the name of the
Christ and in the power of the Christ-force can not only
burst the bonds that hold them, but can completely annihilate
such astral beings if they do not withdraw. After this ex-
perience Hercules sacrificed all that was left of his lower
animal passions, symbolized by the yoke of oxen which, he
sacrificed in spite of the imprecation of the owner, the animal
self. On account of this exploit it became the custom when-
ever sacrifice was made to Hercules to accompany it with
vile imprecations, symbolizing the great fight between a strong
man and his lower passions.
After this, no wonder Hercules was able to release Prome-
theus from his torture and kill the vultures (the haunting
sex thoughts) that continually pecked at his liver (seat of
desire). Hercules also found Atlas bearing up the world on
his shoulders and in pity bore the burden for him, in return
for which Atlas obtained for him the Golden Apples. Thus
only is Divine Love attained, firstly by determined will, then
by persistent effort and self-purification, and lastly by for-
The Twelve Labors of Hercules 113
getting self, and even the great quest itself, in seeking to
relieve the burdens and sorrows of others.
In assigning this eleventh labor to Gemini, the comparison
while vague is nevertheless true. In this Sign of the Twins
we have, firstly, the two aspects of humanity, man and
woman; for the finding of the Golden Apples is the ultimate
balancing of the opposite poles so marked in the sign Gemini.
Secondly, they are the forces of good and evil in mankind
striving for equilibrium. In this case the search for the
Golden Apples is the effort of the Soul to harmonize the
two opposite poles and start out on a new Life, a New Be-
ginning or number 11.
THE TWELFTH LABOR (Capricorn)
Carrying Cerberus from Hades
In the foregoing labors Hercules has shown his strength
and supremacy by conquering every phase of earth conditions.
But there was still one realm of nature as yet unconquered,
namely, the underworld generally called hell,6 and thither he
was sent on his last mission. This task was to conquer and
bring back the hell-hound Cerberus. This dog guarded the
gates oft the lower world. He allowed all to enter, bui seized
all who attempted to return or escape. He was the offspring
of Typhon and Echidna. He bad three heads, a terrifying
bark and the tail of a serpent, while out of his body grew a
mane of tangled serpents. In this dog we find a symbology
closely akin to the terrible Goat of Mendes.
Before attempting this task Hercules bad to be purified
from all his sins and initiated into the Mysteries of Eleusis.
As with all Sun Gods, the final step of Initiation is the descent
into hell to minister to the spirits imprisoned there, so with
Hercules. His first act was to release Theseus from the
bonds which held him there. Then he overpowered Menoites
the herdsman of Hades' kine, namely, the evil genius who
See Realms of lie LvÅug Dead. Curtiu.
114 The Key of Destiny
herded and fed the inhabitants on evil by stimulating their
evil passions. Hercules then killed one of the cattle, i. e., one
of the lower animal passions indulged in in that awful realm,
and appeased the gibbering shades with its blood so as to
direct them away from those they were tormenting.
Cerberus was on guard, but Hercules, protected by his
lion's skin and his breastplate of divinity, cautiously ap-
proached the beast, and suddenly grasping him by the head
and neck forced him to submit. This labor agrees with the
sign Capricorn, for in that sign we find the awful Goat of
Mendes, the mystic guardian of.hell, in the form of a black
magic symbol. But we also find that in it the Christ-man is
born, as every Initiate was said to be when he rose on the
third day, as did Hercules, from the tomb of the under-
world. Also Hercules brought Cerberus up into the light
of day, thus proving, as we have already explained, that the
Goat of Mendes is not the devil, nor is the dog Cerberus in
reality the fearsome creature usually depicted, for by the
power of the Christ both can be eonquered and made the
friends of the man who has accomplished, 1. a., the Sun
Initiate.
CHAPTER XV.
The Number 13. THE MANIFESTOR OF THE UNxvsE.
"The Sun and the 12 signs of the Zodiac may
well stand as symbols of the Master and his 12
disciples, but they will not suffice for the historical
fact, for the fact is not limited to a drama in which
13 characters were at one time employed. It is a
drama that is playing through all time, in all places
and among all people."
Cosmic S.mbohsm, Sepharial, li-ia
Number 13 is a number with an unsavory reputation, but
since the occult rule is that every seeming evil is but a per-
version, distortion or misrepresentation of something good,
let us seek in this so-called unlucky number 13 for its true
meaning or soul and thus help to dispel the incrustations
of evil thought which ages of ignorance, superstition and
misunderstanding have built up around it. First, we must
determine upon what basis of thought or fact its evil repu-
tation is founded and correct any misunderstanding that may
be discovered.
Th superstition that if 13 persons sit down to eat together
evil will surely befall the thirteenth many persons claim to
have seen justified. But no matter how ridiculous a super-
stition, if it is believed in by a great many people for a great
many years the united thought-force of all its believers will
form a nucleus of force around which will gather a great
army of elementals whose power will be exerted to fulfill
the dominant thought expressed. In some cases the result
is due to the thought-forces directly, in others to the ele-
mentals who are helping to make manifest the desires of
man. This is one of the secrets of the power, either for
good or evil, given to certain ideas, superstitions and even
to inanimate objects such as talismans, et cetera.
The elementals1 are conscious yet mindless nature-forces
1 See R..J,,u of ike Livuig Degd, Curtiu, xiii.
113
116 The Key of Destiny
which help to build up, materialize and manifest in form
the ideal prototypes in the Divine Mind, as well as in the
mind, thoughts and desires of man. They blindly follow the
attraction of man's thoughts much as iron filings move across
a paper when attracted to and following the lines of force of a
magnet. However, the elementals are in various stages of
their own evolution, from mere centers of elemental conscious-
ness having only latent intelligence, up through the various
grades to the fairies, brownies, elves, nature sprites, et cetera.
Under certain conditions they tend to obey blindly either the
conscious command or the persistent thought of man, doing
good or evil with equal promptness. These forces are there-
fore man's most potent allies in bringing to pass that which he
thinks clearly and definitely and wills strongly. Thus the
greater the number of persons who hold the same thought, the
more powerful it becomes.
It is these elementals who give much of the mystic power
to spells, omens, charms, et cetera. It is also through these
agencies that tho evil thoughts of man are taken up and em-
bodied in the lower forms of life, making many of them an-
tagonistic to man. In this way number 13 in many cases has
really brought about just what man has for ages believed pos-
sible. Hence if 13 persons sit down to a table and one or more
fear that serious consequences will result to one of their
nuniber ere the end of the year, the one who fears most or
on whom the thoughts of all are concentrated, will at least be
subjected to the forces generated and directed toward him
by the 12. And if he opens his aura through the door of
fear he is likely to suffer in proportion.
The origin of this superstition is supposed to date back
to the early Christian era, being connected in the popular
mind with the fate of Judas Iscariot after his betrayal of
Jesus at the Last Supper, although this idea did not become
prevalent for several centuries, as nothing was written about
the death and betrayal of Jesus until about the third century.
Yet the thought that the thirteenth person at a table will be
The Manifestor of the Universe 117
a victim of the power of Judas (betrayal) is nevertheless
often true, for the more strongly such a thought is heldespe-
daily if it be coupled with fear, the paralyzing force which
literally breaks down the protecting force of common sense
the more deadly will it be. But it is never Judas, the be-
trayer, who is the one affected, but the thirteenth or the
symbolic Master in the midst of His 12 disciples.
Some students of mythology tra the origin of this belief
back to the Scandinavian myth of their Sun God Baldor
who was killed by an arrow from the bow of the god Loki,
while the 12 Great Gods sat around a table feasting. It takes
but little thought to see that this is but a Scandinavian ex-
pression of the universal Sun Myth, the round table a4 which
the 12 Great Gods were seated being the circle of the zodiac,
and Baldor, the thirteenth who is killed, the Sun in the centre,
while Lold, the slayer, is the power of darkness, strildng or
killing the light and strength of the Sun during the shortest
day of the year. This is indicated by the fact that he is rep-
resented as using an arrow made of mistletoe, which in all
ancient legends is connected with the shortest day and longest
night of the year.
But before citing the corroborations of this idea in other
Sun Myths, let us examine the reason for the conception,
considering it from the standpoint of its fundamental numeri-
cal symbology.
As we have explained in The Key to the Universe, the
numbers from 1 to 9 represent the unfoldment of the facul-
ties and the acquiring of the experience during a certain
cycle which is completed in 10, each recurrence of 10 having
within it a repetition of the same digits but with the
power of the previous cycles of 10 added. Therefore to gain
a true conception of the meaning of the numbers above 10,
we must carefully consider the meaning of the digits com-
posing them, together with the number derived bl their occult
addition and blend and harmonize the meaning of all. Thus
13 equals 10+3=13 and 1+3=4, or 13 represents a corn-
118 The Key of Destiny
plete cycle (10) of the Divine (3) manifested on earth (4)
or the Christ has completed His descent into matter (4) and
sits at the table of the zodiac in the midst of His 12 disciples.
Number 13 therefore contains the power of its 3 elements.
Through the power of the One Life (1) it blends the Divine
(3) with the terrestrial (4) the Foundation Stone, or the
Divine manifesting in matter. Verily to call this number evil
or unlucky is to make of it the "stone which the builders re-
jected." It is evil only because of man's misunderstanding
and unwise use of the divine heritage and power which it
symbolizes.
The fundamental meaning of number 13 is the Manifestor
of the Universe. Since the Divine cannot be fully expressed in
matter in less than 12,2 the true symbology of 13 is that of the
sunwhich to the zodiac is the One Life or number 1and
the 3 of the Trinity manifesting in its fourfold aspect through
the elements of earth, air, fire and water, and producing the
foundation of the manifested universe. In other words, num-
ber 13 symbolizes the Sun in the center of the 12 signs of the
zodiac as the Manifestor of the (physical) Universe.
'As above, so below." Just as the Divine Dot manifests
within the circle as the Creator God, so does the physical
Sun in the center of the circle of our solar system manifest as
the source of all light, life and intelligence to its attendant
planets. And just as the forces poured out by the Dot bring
to fruition and redeem all its creations, and as all Saviors
are represented as cyclidy giving their, lives or shedding their
symbolic "blood" (spiritual life-force) for the redemption
of their followers, so does the Sunthe Dot in the center of
our circle or zodiacshed its "blood" or pour out its life-
force that all nature might not perish but have life more
abundant during its cycle, or reach Perfection and be re-
deemed in its numbcr 10. We therefore see that the 12 signs
of the zodiac with the Sun (13) in the center is the funda-
mental basis for all myths of a Creator and Savior God.
2 5cc Oiatcr V.
CHAPTER XVI.
The Number 13. TaR SAVIOR GoD.
"If it is once shown that every true Adept had,
and still has, to pass through the seven and twelve
trials of Initiation.. . and that the trials of all
these personages are made to correspond with the
Esoteric significance of initiatory ritesall of which
correspond to the twelve zodiacal signsthen every
one will see the meaning of the travels of all those
heroes through the signs of the Sun in Heaven; and
that they are in each individual case a personification
of the sufferings, triumphs and miracles of an
Adept, before and after his Initiation. . . then
also the mystery of all those lives, so closely re-
sembling each other that the history of one seems
to be the history of the other.. . become plain."
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, iii, 141.
While it is the accepted theory among mythologists and
Higher Critics of the Bible that the physical Sun is the basis
of all Sun Myths and that its journey around the zodiac is
the basis for the incidents in the lives of every Divine Incar-
nation or Sun-God, and while the incidents in the lives of all
are almost identical and coincide most remarkably with the
events of the zodiac, yet we would explain this coincidence
from the opposite point of view. We maintain that, instead
of the life story of Jesus and other Saviors being a mere
personification of the natural phenomena occurring during
the Sun's cycle of the year, both are exempliflcations of one
and the same universal law, i. e., the Law of Cyclic Mani-
festation. In other words, because the Sun is the Light
Bearer and self-sacrificing Savior in nature, it exemplifies
the same unfoldment in the physical life of the universe that
every divine Light Bearer or Savior of man exemplifies in
the unfoldment of his spiritual life. The unfoldment of both
follows th8 same stages, not because one is a copy or person-
ification of the other, but because both are expressions of the
same law, one in the physical world, the other in tbei spiritual.
Therefore as Mystics, instead of being disturbed by the
119
120 The Key of Destiny
proofs of the Higher Critics that certair events ir the life of
Jesus and of other personages in the Bible did not take place
historically, or else took place at a time or place far removed,
or under quite different circumstances from those related, we
accept the facts of the criticism when proved, but still are
able to correlate them with the Bible narrative as we find it.
For instead of turning our backs upon or dosing our eyes to
the many historical and other discrepancies in the Bible, we
set to work to find why they were so used, and to find out
the inner, mystical or symbolic meaning of the very discrep-
ancies themselves; for a true Mystic never refuses to face
any problem, k-nowing that all are but various expressions of
a few fundamental laws. Instead of the discrepancies dis-
crediting the Bible, they go. to prove its ny.ctical origin and
occult .cigniflcance, for only a truly inspired writer could
make apparent discrepancies pregnant with true mystical
meaning.
All life must be the unfoldmentbrought about through
unvarying and universal lawsof the one Grand Cosmic
Plan. Especially do we see this in the unfoldment of the
minds of men. Hence when a careful study of actual history
reveals the fact that men in all ages who have devoted them-
selves to the solution of God's Plan, have reached uniform
conclusions and have sought to express them in a common
way, namely, through the symbology of the Sun and the
zodiac, there must be a deep and truly scientific reason back
of it, a reason which the enlightened minds of every Race
and Nation, each following their own divine guidance, has
grasped and borne witness to. Let us then supply here the
universal rule for solving a problem, which is, turn it over
and view the other side.
The Sun and the zodiac are of themselves the actual mani-
fested result of a higher and more divind truth, i. e., the One
Eternal Absolute Creative God in the midst of His creations.
The physical Sun with its attendant planets is a material cx-
prcssion of this One Eternal God-head, while the zodiac is
The Savior God 121
but the limiting body in which it (Sun) must do the Will of
Him who sent it forth. Therefore, while these heavenly
bodies are wonderful and most sacred to humanity, they
are but one reflection in our universe of that which is far
more sacred. Hence it is not merely the Sun in its annual
journey which is depicted in every Sun Myth and in the
life of every Light Bearer or World Savior, but the same
divine "Word," the Dot in the Circle, which was in the be-
ginning with God and which is periodically sent out from the
Father, even as a ray of the Sun is sent forth periodically
each day into nature. Yet in the case of a Light Bearer, or
Sun Initiate such as Jesus, this Light is the very essence of
the Father or "the only begotten of the Father, full of grace
and truth." Every age and every people must have such a
sliming forth of the glory of the Father, yet each Light
Bearer is the only begotten in the sense that He is of the
essence of the Spiritual Sun which must shine forth from
age to age, just as the physical Sun must send out its force
every year. Yet each recurring year the Light sent forth con
tains all the powers of the Sun, although the Sun itself is not
diminished.
The life-force in the seed is in a static or dormant condi-
tion and requires the application of firein this case from
the Sun's rayscrc its static condition can be transformed
into one of kinetic activity and its sprout begin to put forth.
We find this same law in the mineral kingdom as well, for
the heat that is locked up in coal reminc in a static state
until through the application of fire it is turned into kinetic
energy. And if we see this law manifesting in the mineral
and vegetable kingdoms it must have a corresponding ex-
pression in all kingdoms, hence we may expect to find it in
man. The great Light Bearers are expressions of the kinetic
activity or active burning of the Spritual Sun and through the
Flame of Divine Love they light the spark in the hearts of
men so that their dormant or static Christ-force is turned
122 The Key of Destiny
into kinetic activity and the Christ seed1 in their hearts
begins to sprout.
Thus the Sun and the zodiac form a perfect expression of
the one Law of Manifestation back of all life. This life
must therefore follow universal stages of unfoldment. And
since we can only comprehend the Infinite through His Works,
our finite minds recognize in the Sun and the zodiac the
symbol and exemplar of the Great Divine Mystery of the
manifested God-head, an universal law of manifestation so
exact and mathematically correct in every detail that it must
be an expression of a fundamental and infinite truth, the
manifestation of God in His works.
Therefore instead of the close correspondence between the
recorded life of Jesus and the Sun's journey through the
zodiac being a cause for doubt of His Divinity, in truth it
is a positive corroboration of it. Nor need we be disturbed
if we find many similar Sons of God fulfilling the same law
in former cycles. For taking the Sun as the outpicturing of
the great Law of God, we find that the Sun must shine forth
with fresh vigor every year that it may renew the life of all
nature. If it shone but once and at that time gave enough
of its force to sustain nature for many cycles (years)say,
as long as this earth enduredthen we would know that only
once would "God send his only begotten Son" to sustain all
Races of mankind with His spiritual shining.
But "as above, so below." This cannot help being so,
since the Sun is but the record in the physical universe of a
mighty event in the Divine World. It is just like the writing
of a telautograph which, written by the Eternal on high,
causes its reproduction in our physical universe. There-
fore the so-called "higher critics" have but scratched the
surface of, the truth and are themselves confused by the mul.
titudinous details of the outer seeming because they are ignor-
ant of the Soul or the motive power producing them.
1 See Icuon The Chtht Seed. Curtiss.
The Savior God 123
That the Sun in the center of the zodiac iS the fundamental
meaning of number 13 as a cosmic symbol is evidenced by its
universal use in all myths which depict the cyde of manifesta-.
tion of the Sun-God, no matter what the language, the people
or the age in which it is found. As Baldor was betrayed
while he gathered the 12 Great Gods around him at meat
and as Jesus was betrayed as He gathered His 12 disciples
around the table at the Last Supper so "Helios also, the
Greek Sun-God, the heavenly physician and savior annually
prepared the 'Sun's Table' in nature causing the fruit to
ripen, the healing herbs to grow, and inviting mortals to
the life-giving repast. This Table of the Sun was always
spread in the land of the happy and long-lived Ethiopians;
even the 12 Gods journey thither each year with Zeus for
12 days, 1. e., in the last Octave of the old and the new year."2
Again, we find that "Jason or lasios is only a Greek form
of the name Joshua, the Jesus of the Old Testament who has
been recognized as an ancient Ephraimitic God of the Sun
and Fruitfulness. And just as Jason (13) sets out with 12
companions to obtain the Golden Fleece of the Lamb of
Colchis; Just as Joshua (13) crossed the river Jordan with
12 followers and celebrated the Pasch (lamb) on the farther
bank, so Jesus (13) with his 12 disciples goes to Jerusalem
at the Pasch in order to eat the Easter Lamb there with the
twelve. It can scarcely be doubted that in all these cases
we have to do with one and the same myththe myth of
the Saving Sun and rejoicer of peoples. It is evident that
all these differing versions refer to the annual journey of
the Sun (13) through the 12 signs of the Zodiac. Even the
names (lasios, Jason, Joshua, Jesus, also Vishnu, Jesudu)
agree, and their common root is contained also in the name
Jao (Jahwe)from which Joshua is derivedthe mystical
name of Dionysos among the Greeks, as he roamed about
in his capacity of travelling physician and redeemer of the
3Ths Christ Mytk Drewa, 136.
124 The Key of Destiny
world."3 "It is as the Sun-God that he (Jesus) is surrounded
by 12 disciples;. . . it is as the Sun-God passing through
the zodiac that he is represented successively in art and lore
by the Lamb and the Fishes," 4the beginning and the end
of the Zodiac. "I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the
last."
The Gospel story of the life of Jesus must therefore be
looked upon not only as a new presentation of the world-old
"Sun Myth," but also as a mystical allegory representing
both the stages of the unfoldment and manifestation of the
Spiritual Sun (the Cosmic Christ) in the heart of each Soul,
and also hiding within it the attestation to the divinity of
Jesus as the Son of God (Sun-God) "the only begotten of
the Father." Since the events recorded are almost identical
with the events in the lives of all former incarnations of the
Spiritual Sun (Sun Initiates) it is evident that all were ex-
pressing the same grand truth. It is as though many persons
in different lands should recite an allegory depicting the
events of a new springtime, the melting of the snow, the early
growth and final blooming of the flowers, the bird's songs,
etc. All would use their own metaphors and express it in
their own languages, yet every nation, tongue and people
would recognize in them a description of spring and would
thrill to the same truth.
Also the events of the various narratives would all appeal
to the human heart because each heart would recognize that
it too had its springtime; its cold rains and bitter winds; its
warm sunshine; its new growth, and therefore ultimately must
have its flowering and fruition. This personal application
would in no way vitiate the truth of the various descriptions.
Nor would it make the springtime one iota less true and
beautiful to know there had been others or that other people
in other parts of the world had described its events in slightly
different terms; for every springtime is to nature the coming
$ CknsHa.iitj aid Mytkt,Iogy, Rcbertscn, 138.
4 Ibid. 34.
The Savior God 125
of the Cosmic Christ or a new physical and historical mani-
festation of the universal Sun Myth, because it is a materialized
expression of the great creative drama of Divine Manifesta-
tion or the Divine Life manifesting in all worlds. Hen it
must have its expression in nature as well as in the unfolding
life of man made in the image of the Divine. This law was the
basis for Hermes' axiom, "As it is above, so is it below, for the
accomplishment of the one purpose," 1. e., the manifestation of
the Divine in all worlds.
In the same way every Soul striving to follow the Path
of Unfoldment must experience the events depicted in the
life of Jesus, because all life must follow the same divine
pattern breathed out in the beginning. For this reason we
can always find an analogy in every event in nature and
apply its truths to man, because in its growth, development
and evolution it is pointing the way for him. Its sad and
dark days as well as its happy ones touch his heart, Ecause
he too is experiencing the corresponding states of joy and
sorrow in his expression of the urge of the One Life toward
perfection. In fact, man and nature, the earth and the uni-
verse, are all expressing but the writing of the wonderful
teleautograph in the hands of the Infinite, the One God.
It is evident from the above that the Sun Myth could not
have been evolved by primitive man observing the events of
nature, for no primitive mind could grasp, much less accu-
rately formulate, so stupendous an allegory, and especially
one which would stand not only the test of philosophical
examination and the experiences of life in all ages, but also
the acid test of ,nathe,natics, the cold figures of astronomical
and astrological calculations. The Sun of Righteousness as
it strives to manifest the Light in each life follows the same
law we see exemplified in the physical Sun. Just as the
physical Sun at each new springtime awakens to life all that
was seemingly dead, be it nourishing grain or noxious weed,
so the Spiritual Sun in each heart into which a ray of the
Christ Light streams awakens into life and activity all that
126 The Key of Destiny
seemed dead or dormant in the circle of its life manifesta-
tion. For the real Soul-lessons of life must be learned
through this process of quickening (redemption) by the Spirit
of Life of that which was mystically deaddead meaning
dormant or not in manifestationjust as a latent planet is
brought into manifestation and all its latent powers quickened
by the descent of the Light. The planet, the Soul and the seed
are all sent forth to express the aspect of the Divine Ideal
implanted within them, hence all follow the same steps in
manifestation, obeying the universal Law of Unfoldment
(evolution), i. e., growth from within outward.
The Last Supper is another symbol of the meaning of
number 13, although to be correct the table should be a round
one with a space for serving in the1 center, as used in ancient
Rome and some oriental countries. The significant words
spoken on that occasion by the "Lord of Light," "This do in
remembrance of me," have been little understood. For they
did not merely mean that the followers of the Son of God
were to drink wine and eat broken bread in remembrance
of a cowardly betrayal and a cruel death, but that they were to
look ever to the Christ for their spiritual bread and wine.
If His followers would sit in a circle according to the seats
of the 12 signs of the zodiac, with each one earnestly en-
deavoring to manifest the force of the sign in whose scat
he sitseven if he was not born in that signand with all
their hearts illumined by the radiance of the Spiritual Sun, or
truly "in remembrance of Him" who is the Spiritual Sun
that must shine in their hearts, they would surely be given
to partake of that mystical food of which Jesus spoke when
He said: "I have meat to eat that ye know not of:'
CHAPTER XVII.
The Number 13. NECROMANCY.
"There are depths in man that go the lengths of
lowest hell, as there are heights that reach highest
heaven; for are not both heaven and hell made out
of him, made by him, everlasting miracle and mys-
tery that he is?"CorIyle.
Number 13 has a strong affinity for the astral world because
when the forces from the 12 signs are perfectly blended in
thirteen the earth-forces blend with the astral forces. Hence,
only as we use the positive power of 13 or the power of the
Christ within to conquer all that comes to us is 13 helpful.
Otherwise it is exceedingly dangerous, for in its negative
aspect it is the Number of Necromancy and Evocation whose
power can draw to it subtle forces and entities from the astral
world to be used for good or evil. In certain regions of the
astral1 there are forms which are but the discarded and dis-
integrating astral corpses left behind as empty shells by those
Souls who have passed from the lower realms of the astral
into the higher psychic realms, just as the physical body
is left behind as an empty shell when the Soul leaves the
physical world. These shells are composed of the astral
body and lower principles minus the Soul and life-force.
Although these corpses are slowly disintegrating they last
much longer than do physical corpses, and for a time they
may retain a semblance of life through the amount of
kamic or lower desire principle still enmeshed in them, just
as a physical corpse may retain an amount of life-force
sufficient to make the nails and hair grow to a considerable
length after burial. These shells are sometimes drawn xnag-
netically into the aura of living persons through the practice
of conscious or unconscious necromancy. When thus attracted
they automatically absorb from the living the forces of animal
iSee Realms of the Livuug Dead, Curiju. 83-4.
122
128 The Key of Destiny
magnetism and desire which renew or prolong their shadowy
existence. They are also often drawn into the aura of many
spiritualistic seances where the sitters are of the more ignorant
type. These are not the "Souls" of the dead but merely the
"shades of the dead" which the elaborate ritual, ceremonial
and vital powers of the necromancer galvanize into a seeming
life. They are not the conscious Souls of our loved ones who
have gone before us and with whom true and legitimate com-
munion is possible when independent and legitimate methods
are used.2
Therefore let all students be careful not to confuse necro-
mancy with true and legitimate communion with the de-
parted, as they have nothing in common. Often it is these
empty shells which are clothed in the physical life-forces
and atoms thrown off by the medium and sitters at a séance
and thus become temporarily visible, or are said to material-
ize. This form of materialization, however, is real necromancy
and is a perversion of the real materialization of the living
astral body of the departed. Hence it is not only a fraudu-
lent appearance of the departed but is dangerous, foolish
and' degenerating to the sitters as well as to the necromancer.
It is this practice of evocation which the Bible and all spiritual
teachers and philosophers condemn, and not the legitimate
communion with the departed so frequently recounted and so
plainly sanctioned in the Bible.
This aspect of 13 is very "unlucky" since it leads to nothing
but falsehood, glamour and degeneration, either of the moral
faculties or the physical body or both.
But there are also other forms in the astral world, and to
those whose spiritual growth has brought them step by step
to this thirteenth gate and who determine to receive the
Bread of Life from the hand of the Christ alone and who
give the challenge as we have explained it elsewhere3 there
is nothing to fear. For since man is not a mere puppet to be
2 See Redziz .f t*e Lwuig Ds.d, Curtha. Chapten XVI and XVIIL
S See Re.1m of Me Livú,g Dead. Curtiu, 127.
Necromancy 129
swayed against his will by unconscious forces, once he has
asserted his true manhood and has awakened the powers of
the 12 aspects of the zodiac within himself and has ruled
them even in a slight degree, he has sat at the Round Table
and eaten and drunk with the Christ And the Christ has
proclaimed "This is my body (limits of the zodiac) broken
(into 12 parts) for you, take eat.. . Unless ye eat my body
and drink my blood (the spiritual life-force) there is no
life in you."
Therefore those who thus sit at meat with the Christ
and His 12 disciples know that all is well, even though
there comes a time in their Cycle of the Sun when some as-
pects of force within themthe selfish desires of the per-
sonalitywhich dippeth with them into the dish shall plunge
them into darkness for a season, just as the Sun is annually
plunged into the darkness of the longest night and shortest
day of the year. They know that as followers of the Light
they have the power of the Jesus-man to rise from the tomb
of this season of dormant power (winterdeathhell) tri-
umphant in a new and radiant springtime. In fact, the incident
of Judas dipping in the dish covers the whole question of
man's endeavor to gain life-force and knowledge in an illegiti-
mate manner. For necromancy is a literal dipping of the
hand (power to accomplish) of unregenerate man into the
dish of the Divine Life Force from which only the purified
powers (hands) of the perfected Christ-man (a true disciple)
dares to take the Bread and break it and give to his disciples
(faculties) tQ eat.
Necromancy is the perverted and degraded aspect of num-
ber 13 and is one reason why 13 is sometimes called Judas
the betrayer. It is not 13 but man himself who is the Judas,
for he has betrayed the Christ within for 30 pieces of silver
the metal of the Moon, symbol of astral forcesor during a
cycle of his three-fold being (3X10=30) body, mind and
spirit But when the betrayal is accomplished, then Judas in
misery goes out into thea darkness and hangs himself, i. e., the
130 The Key of Destiny
selfishness and darkness of the old personality will be extin-
guished by the rising of the Spiritual Sun that the Christ-man
may rise and partake of the One Life in its three-fold mani-
festations in body, mind and spirit. This is the positive side
of the picture whose negative side humanity has for so many
ages been tracing in letters of blood upon the pages of history.
Since out of the group of 13 there was but one Judas and
12 who stood fast, why should we ask, as did the disciples of
Jesus, "Lord are there few that be saved ?" The eternal answer
is: "Strive to enter in at the straight gate," laying em-
phasis upon the word straight, for all attempts to find the
way through the devious paths of phenomena or of dabbling
in evocations and necromancy are but crooked gates opening
into dark labyrinths of illusion. For only the Light of Truth
fed by the oil of pure devotion in a true heart and held aloft
bj the Hermit we met at number 9 can hope to find the way
to safety. Yet even here is the Christ; for has not the Psalmist
said: "If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: If I make
my bed in hell, behold thou art there."
Again, since the balanced force of the three gates or decans
of each signthe good, the evil and the perfect balance
between the twois in the center, it will be marked on a
zodiacal map by a straight line. Hence that is the straight
gate we must strive to enter in. In other words, we must
receive the forces of all the 12 signs in straight or balanced
lines. While 13 may be a danger point that can be passed
over only in the strength of complete trust and fidelity and
the love that rests for all help upon the bosom of the Christ,
yet having these, it is by no means "unlucky."
We find also that number 13 is connected with the divisions
of the sidereal year, for in it we find 4 seasons, Spring, Sum-
mer, Autumn, Winter, each embracing 13 weeks. Thus num-
ber 13 is the mystic power of the Manifestor of Life
working in matter and changing the conditions from one
season to another. The pack of familiar playing cards de-
pends for its numerical construction on 13, for in it we find
Necromancy 131
the 4 suits of 13 cards each, following closely in symbology
the 4 seasons of the year and their 13 weeks. The use of
these cards in divination appears wonderful to the uninitiated,
for in the hands of one who has learned to think mathe-
matically' and logically, one who has entered in at the straight
gate, the seemingly accidental numerical configurations of the
cards after shuffling is a true key, not only to the thoughts
and character of the one handling them, but also a forecast
of the happenings to come, providing the events are close
enougl to be reflected in the person's aura. One of, the most
magical arrangement of numbers is this of number 13 four
times repeated, although there are many, many other factors
involved, such as the colors of the suits, the shape of the
figures, the shape of the symbols and the fact that the 52
cards equal the number of weeks of the year, which equals 7
(52=5+2=7), the number of days in the week. When-
ever number 13 is brought into prominence, as at the end
of a season of the year or suit of cards, it is like a magic mirror
making a link between the astral world and the physical, be-
cause 13 is the gathering up of the forces of the zodiac, hence
is capable of reflecting the shadows cast both by thoughts and
by forthcoming events.
The use of playing cards should not be abused else it be-
comes a form of necromancy, for many fortune tellers use
the cards as a means of evoking astral beings who are far
more responsible for the shuffling of the cards and the pre.
dictions than any other factor. For this reason one who is
psychic is most successful as a card reader.
The word psyche means Soul, hence a "psychic" should
be one who is in conscious rapport with his own Soul, the
consciousness of his Higher Self, one who can respond to
the Inner Guidance of the Soul But the word has become
so perverted that today it is used almost exclusively to mean
one who has merely developed one or more of his five senses
to respond to the astral world, hence follows the guidance of
132 The Key of Destiny
mere astral entities instead of the Divine Guidance of his
own Soul.
Those who have a passion for gambling are often in reality
obsessed by disembodied gamblers and driven on to their
destruction just as surely as is the drunkard who drinks not
alone to gratify his own desire for liquor, but to fulfill the ab-
normal lust for sensation of some debauched drunkard who,
having passed out of physical life, is still the victim of the drink
craze and seeks to gratify his lust through the physical or-
ganism of a sensitive but negative character.' Such astral
entities are always congregated in great numbers around the
sensitive who seeks to communicate with the astral by any
means save by the Independent Method4 of prayer and as-
piration for the Divine or listening to the Inner Voice, that
it may manifest in love within him as a natural growth. And
every negative opening of the centers (doors) of the body
and mind is apt to result in an inrush of obsessing entities.
It should be noted here that the base of the Great Pyramid
of Gizehwhich was not built as a tomb, but as a repository
of celestial measurements and proportionscovers approxi-
mately 13 acres, and that the entrance passageway opens upon
the 13th tier of stoiies. Each side of the base measures 9,130
British inches and 9+1+3 +0=13.
See Realms of the Livuig Dcad Curtiss, Chapter3 X and XL
4 Ibid. Chapter XVI.
CHAPTER XVIIL
The Number 13. TuE GREAT Dp.
"Every number has a certain power which is not
expressed by the figure or symbol employed to denote
quantity only. This power rests in an occult connec-
tion existing between the relation of things and prin-
ciples in nature of which they are the expressions."
The Kobala of Numbers, Sephariel, I, 5.
The word necromancy is formed from two Greek words
meaning: "corpse" and "divination." Its accepted meaning
therefore is a form of divination through the evocation of
the dead. It is also connected with sorcery, witchcraft and the
black art. It is no wonder then that number 13 tends to
awaken evil forces and draw them to one who ignorantly
accepts such a perverted meaning and bows to it. But it is
a most powerful number for good when understood and con-
nected in the mind always with the Christ and the enlighten-
ment of manldnd. By the correlation with that which number
13 symbolizes, the spiritualized will of the sincere Disciple can
indeed quicken the dead or dormant seeds of spiritual life in
his nature. But like the necromancer, he dare not evoke
its powers unless he is ready to face and subdue the evil in
himself when it comes forth. It comes forth only that through
the power of the Light of the Christ, he may recognize it
and give it no quarter until redeemed.
The danger of this number is that by its power the Disciple
awakens into new life all that is in him both of good and evil
that it may come forth at the command of the Christ. It is
Lazarus coming forth from the tomb but with the grave
clothes still about him. But like Lazarus, he is awakened
and if he wills it he can soon remove the grave clothes.
So it is with us, the good is intensified and the evil, if recog..
nized and fearlessly faced, can be transmuted into good by
the same Voice that called it forth. The weapons with1 which
to conquer are a pure heart and an unwavering' faith in the
133
134 The Key of Destiny
Divine Love and in the protection of the Christ-light within
and a fearless determination to face and overcome all that
holds us back.
Many students when passing through this period invoke
the shades of their dead past almost unconsciously. There-
fore they have horrid visions or disagreeable psychic experi-
ences. Hence it is important that some help should be given
to those who are passing through this phase of development.
While we most emphatically warn all our readers against
any form of forcing their psychic development, yet when
those faculties are unfolding naturally, in answer to the call
of the Christ to come forth from the tomb, the pupil must
be told how to guard against the evil influences that are ever
ready to rush in the moment the doors (centers) of the citadel
are opened. We have therefore given full instructions on
this subject in our book Realms of the Living Dead.
To the true sincere and loving Soul, Number 13 is a bless-
ing, for in it the Christ stands in the midst of his Q of
Destiny and sheds the creative Light of Truth on all. But
woe to him who, seeking only phenomena, self-gratification
and selfish indulgences, finds Number 13 taking a prominent
place in his life. For it will indeed prove to be the Number
of Necromancy and will raise from the sleep of death all the
demons of self to flatter, betray and ultimately destroy him,
unless they are dismissed and prevented from dipping with
him into the dish of life-force as he sups at his round table
with his disciples, i.e., his faculties.
We are told that, "The Beard (of the Macroprosopus or the
Vast Countenance) in continuation of the symbolic representa-
tion of the head, is divided into 13 portions, which answer by
Gematria to the idea of unity. For Achad, unity, yields the
number 13." 1 Number 13 is also called the "Waters of
Punishment and Mercy" as well as of deansing. Here we
have the meaning of 13 beautifully if cryptically expressed.
For the forehead is the seat of intelligence and also of will,
and benevolence is that benign and loving patience which mani-
TI, Zabbalak UavrilL Mitben. 47.
The Great Deep 135
fests continually manward, even though man in his ignorance
evokes and vainly seeks for help from the inferior powers.
It also holds the idea that the very deceit and perversion of the
life-force by these evil powers can, by this divine benevolence,
be turned into prayers for man's ultimate redemption. And
the Waters of Punishment, Mercy and Cleansing, what are
they but the tears wrung from man's eyes through suffering?
because he has lost his way in the darkness and is so blinded
by their scalding flood that he cannot see the benevolence of
the Vast Countenance expressed in the zodiac.
A certain advanced disciple had a vision in which she seem-
ingly was taken to Paradise and ushered by the Angels into
the Presence of this Vast Countenance, which seemed to fill
the entire universe with its radiance, permeating every atom
of her being like a subtile fire and enchanting all her senses
like an intoxicating and most fragrant perfume; like a
luminous Light, and a sound of almost overpowering rhythmic
music lifting, falling and throbbing through the universe;
hence an appeal to every sense, even senses not known on
earth. Before this Vast Countenance the Angels bade her
kneel, then brought to her broken bread which they bade her
eat, telling her this was composed of all the tiny grains of
effort she had made to feed the children of men with the
Bread of Life which she had cast on the waters and forgotten,
or which had only brought her bitter disappointment and sor-
row. Yet every grain of that spiritual bread had been gathered
by the Angels and ground fine by the Mills of the Gods and
was now returned after many days as spiritual Bread and
given her to eat. They then brought her a cup filled with
a bright, sparkling golden liqueur, which they told her was
extracted from all the tears of sorrow, disappointment and
repentan she had shed on earth through her long pilgrimage
of lives. These had been carefully gathered by the Angels
and preserved and decocted into the Wine of the Spirit, the
true Elixir of Life, which was now given her to drink. This
is an example of the true power of 13 to gather up all the
136 The Key of Destiny
experiences of the Q of our lives (our zodiac) and extract
the spiritual essences from all our efforts for good that seem
to have been lost or to have been ineffective.
In the Book of Concealed Mystery number 13 is also called
"The Waters," or the Great Deep, the surging sea of hiimn-
ity. These waters we are told in Genesis were divided into
two parts. "Let there be a firmament in the midst of the
waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters." Thus
while humanity, being the result of the offspring of the Great
Mother-force, is the sea, or the water below the firmament,
the water above the firmament is the astral light or according
to the Book of Concealed Mystery, the "Mercy" through which
judgment and punishment are mitigated. Judgment is but
justice or the working of the Law of Karma, while punish-
ment is only the suffering necessarily resulting from broken
law, which alone can teach man not to pollute the Great Sea
by evil thoughts and acts. Mercy then is the constant over-
shadowing love of "the Good" turning every experience into
ultimate blessing; the down pouring of the Water of Life from
the Divine Mother. Just as vegetation on the earth can only
come forth when nourished by terrestrial water, no matter
how bright the Sun may shine upon it, so the spiritual seeds
of good can only come forth from the arid soil of experience
and suffering as the Water of Life (Mercy) is poured upon
them or the power of Love and Mercy sink into the heart,
no matter how radiantly the Sun of Righteousness shines
forth.
Number 13 is also compared in the same book to Unity,
arguing that the face of the "Great Deep," the abyss, at cetera,
is the countenance formed from "Am Soph, the limitless one;
the first Sephira, the Crown."
Kabalisticallv 13 is called Rest and is sacred to Saturn.
CHAPTER XIX.
The Number 13. THE SNAEE DjvxNrrr.
"A number is a seal or impress of natural law 35
surely as is the shape of a flower, the sound of an at»
mospheric vibration, the color of an ethexic wave."
The Kabala of Numbers, Sephariel,, 1, 20.
Among the American Indians Number 13 fs held in great
reverence. The Indians of Ydcatan also hold 13 in high
esteem, as their Snake Divinities are 13 in nucaber. Yet they
also fear it, for some idea of its meaning and power has been
handed down to them from the ancient Ma"as and Aztecs
whose priests were well versed in all occult and esoteric sym-
bology, lore and practices. The method of reckoning among
the Mayas was by weeks of 13 days; their year containing 28
weeks of 13 days and 1 day over. The period of 13 years
with them was called a "week of years." The week of 13
extra days accumulated during this time 'as considered
sacred and was devoted to high festivals, sacrifices and re-
ligions ceremonials. It has been reported that at every re..
turn of this sacred 13 year period, in an almcist inaccessible
city hidden deep in the mountains, a strange ceremony takes
place. The body of a white priestess, said to be in a state of
catalepsy or suspended animation, is brought out from its
crypt and carried in a magnificent procession and shown to all
the people.
The legend concerning this remony is that ages ago, be-
fore the Mayas reached the zenith of their gloi y, there came
to them a white child who had remarkable psychic and
prophetic powers. She was said to have come fDm "over the
mountains" and as the city was surrounded by inaccessible
peaks which made communication with the outs de world im-
possibleexcept through a secret pass known oniy to the
prieststhe appearance of such a child was considered miracu-
lous. This white child was given into the care of the priests
137
138 Tue Key of Destiny
and attached to the Temple of the Sun where she was brought
up in all the learning of the priesthood, and in time was made
their High Priestess and was married to the king. Under the
guidance of her divine inspiration the nation grew and pros-
pered to such extent that it became the leader in learning,
civilization and power. But at the death of the king the
Priestess-queen was betrayed and murdered at the instigation
of the king's sister who desired to inherit the throne. After
the tragedy it was found that a miracle had taken place, for
although the Priestess was stabbed to the heart, no blood
had flowed. The priests then took charge of the body and
claimed that it would remain in a state of suspended animation
and perfect preservation until the Soul of the Priestess re-
turned. During the centuries that have elapsed, the nation has
gradually declined until it is now composed of but a few in-
significant tribes buried in the mysterious mountain fastnesses
into which no white man has ever been pennitted to pene-
trate. But the priests still declare that the Priestess-queen
will some day return and restore the glory of the nation.
The legend further states that through caring for the body
of the Priestess, the attendant priests have learned certain
secrets of regeneration by which they utilize the planetary and
zodiacal forces to renew their bodies continually, just as the
same forces renew the life of the earth each season. It is
said they have thus been enabled to prolong life in the same
bodies to an unbelievable length of time, although their bodies
are gaunt, wasted and shrivelled. If there is any truth in this
legend it is indeed a sad one. No doubt their Priestess-queen
will return, but in a new incarnation in a new body, again to
lift up the nation through the light of her inspiration. Hence
all the magical forces used to keep her old form from dis-
integration but hamper the work which only the reincarnated
Soul of the Priestess can complete. If any of our readers
know anything about this legend, the authors would be espe.
cially glad to hear from them concerning it.'
lSucb letter' may be addressed in care of the Publisher.
The Snake Divinity 139
To sum up the meaning of Number 13, let us emphasize that
the number symbolizes the descent of the Divine into manifes-
tation on the physical plane. Hence 13 can be used to attract
to earth forces from above the earth, and its influence may
be usedif the one seeking to correlate with the number
mediates upon the Sun in the center of the zodiac, the Christ
in the midst of His disciples, or the center between the eyes
of the "Vast Countenance"to manifest more perfectly the
divine One Life within himself and thus help to redeem and
upIift the very substance of the globe, as well as the matter
composing man and his bodies. Or its power can be reversed
if the idea held is to produce phenomena with which to satisfy
curiosity, to attain prestige and power over both the forces
working in the matter composing the various planes of the
globe or for any other selfish purposes. Number 13 will prove
a veritable whip of scorpions, driving into the abyss of dark-
ness all who seek to attain power from the Prince of Dark-
ness instead of the Prince of Light.
It can be used to bring forth in humanity either the positive
force of theophanythe overshadowing and shining through
the purified man of the God-consciousness--or it can bring
forth the negative force of necromancy, which is but man's
effort to gain sensation and power by drawing to earth the de-
parted and disintegrating soulless shades from the graveyards
of the astral world through dabbling in elemental forces. And
it must be remembered that the negative side is the one most
easily attained because the nearest the earth. To attain the
overshadowing of the Divine man must lift himself up in love,
aspiration and purity of thought to the God-consciousness,
while in the negative manifestation man but draws down to
himself entities which are seeking an avenue for the expression
of their unsatisfied desires and lusts in the flesh. In both
cases an avenue of desire or a pathway of force must be
created according to that which it is desired to draw down.
The first can be attained only by the balancing of the forces
of the zodiac and by a heart full of love, ardent aspiration
140 The Key of Destiny
and will to realize the Divine. These will never attract
the forces of evil; while no amount of lip-service will avail
to attract the Divine Consciousness if the pathway of emana-
tions from the heart is composed of anything but love and
purity.
There are 13 recorded appearances of Jesus after His
resurrection.
The first appearance was to Mary Magdalene on the
first day of the resurrection (John, XX, 15-17). On that
occasion He spoke to her three times (a) "Woman why weep-
est thou? Whom seekest thou?' (b) "Mary" and (c) "Touch
me not," an occult injunction it is well to remember. when en-
countering the newly risen astral bodies of our loved ones.
For no matter how pure or loving they may be, as Jesus said,
until they have risen into the higher psychic realms, they
cannot contact a mortal aura without casting over it the con-
ditions of suffering with which they passed out of physical
life.2
The second appearance (Matthew, XXVIII, 9) was to
the two Marys on their return from the tomb. The message
was: "Be not afraid: go tell my brethren that they go into
Galilee, and there shall they see me."
The third appearance (Luke, XXIV, 13) was to the two
disciples on their way to Emmaus. They did not recognize
Him, even when He walked and talked with them, expound-
ing the teachings He had given them. Only when He had
opened their understanding did they recognize who had been
teaching them. Thus does the Christ often walk with His
disciples in their daily round today, but must wait for recog-
nition until their awakened understanding shall recognize Him
through His teachings.
The fourth appearance (Luke, XXIV, 34) was to Simon
Peter or Cephas (I Cor. XV, 5).
The fifth appearance was to the 10 apostles in an upper
SSee R:diuis of t, Lfri,. Dead. Curth.. S9.
The Snake Divinity 141
room (John, XX, 19; Luke, XXIV, 36). His message was,
"Peace be unto you: As my Father bath sent me, even so send
I you. . . Receive ye the Holy Ghost."
The sixth was to the 11 apostles as they sat at meat
(Mark, XVI, 14).
The seventh was to the disciples "and Thomas was with
them" (John, XX, 26). His message was "Reach hither thy
finger, and behold my bands; and reach hither thy hand, an)
thrust it into my side. . . . Blessed are they that have ns.n
seen, and yet have believed." This seventh message was like
number 7 itself, most blessed and comforting. Although th
world is full of doubters, here we have the assurance that
every honest doubt shall be satisfied if the doubters will but
put forth their powers (fingers) and investigate thoroughly
for themselves. There is a great difference between the hon-
est doubter who, though he has not yet had the inner per-
sonal experience which settles all his doubts, yet goes on doing
his work in the world with an open mind awaiting his illumin-
ation, and the scoffer who refuses to believe that anyone could
have an experience which he could not share or demonstrate
to himself.
The eighth appearance was to the disciples at the sea of
Tiberias (John, XXI, 12) where He asked for meat, eating
with them broiled fish and bread, His message being: "Come
and dine."
The ninth was to the 11 apostles on a mountain in Galilee
(Matthew, XXVIII, 16), His message being, "All power is
given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach
all nations, baptising them in the name of the Father, and of
the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. - . . Lo I am with you al.
way, even unto the end of the world."
The tenth was to 500 brethren at once (I Cor., XV, 6).
No message was recorded.
The eleventh was to James (I Cor., XV, 7) and then to
all the apostles. No message recorded.
The twelfth was at His ascension (Acts. I, 11) while He
142 The Key of Destiny
blessed them a cloud received Him out of their sight. The
message was: "This same Jesus, which is taken up from you
into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him
go into heaven."
13. The thirteenth was to Saul of Tarsus (Paul) while on
his way to Damascus. (Acts, IX, 3-4). The message was:
"Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?"
Apollonius calls number 13 the fourth hour. In it "the
neophyte wanders in the sepulchers, and it will injure him;
he will experience horror and fear of visions; he should de-
vote himself to magic and to geotie."3 Here he must be able to
face fearlessly the forces which in the 12 hours he has in-
voked, and the first that appears is always the lowest and
most antagonistic, such as elementals who stand ready to
carry out man's unuttered and ofttimes unrecognized thoughts
either good or evil. Also since at this step the door is open
to the remains of the dead astral corpses which are often gal-
vanized into a semblance of life, he must be fearless and know
how to discriminate. But if he has completed the task of the
third hour and has killed all sense of the personality as a sep-
arate entity, he here experiences a sense of utter loneliness.
For although the Celestial Man has been born from the ter-
restrial, yet in this hour he is but a helpless babe, crying out
for the love of the Great Mother whom he knows is near,
but whom as yet he cannot fully see.
Papus says of this step: "The foundations of the Universe
are now reached; the Neophyte touches the extremity of the
terrestrial aura, the sublunar atmosphere which surrounds
each planet, like the reservoir of the elements of its life; he
has now reached a terrible moment when he must lose the
earth to launch out into the ocean of space; a formidable
crisis, to which two periods are consecrated."4
$The magic which evokes the evil genii who injure man.A. P. II.
4 The Tevot of the D,kesu.,is. Papus. 267.8.
CHAPTER XX.
The Thirteenth Letter.MEM. (73)
"Letters as well as numbers, were all mystic,
whether in combination or taken separately. The
most sacred of all is the letter M. It is both femi-
nine and masculine, pr androgyne, and is made to
symbolize Water in its origin, the Great Deep."The
Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, I, 412.
"He caused the letter Mem to reign in the Water,
crowned it, and combining it with the others, formed
the earth in the world, cold in the year, and the
belly in man.."Sepher Yetzirah, 20.
The thirteenth Hebrew letter is Mem (M). It is one of the
three mother letters and is associated with water. In the
creation of the universe on the second day there was created
a firmament in the midst of the waters "to divide the waters
from the waters." As we have said elsewhere,1 these days of
creation are periods of time embracing vast geological ages,
and the face of the Great Deep on which moved the Spirit of
God comprised the materials for the planet, in their semi-
physical or astral state. And since it was from this state
that the earth in cooling gradually solidified into dense phys-
ical matter, the ethereal astral matter or the Great Deep was
the Mother which brought it forth. Matter is therefore also
Mother, the very name (mattermatermother) indicating
that this Great Deep is all one, the firmament in the midst of
the waters being but the result of a difference in specific
gravity; that part of the Great Deep which became dense
physical matter being called earth, while that which remained
as ethereal astral matter was called heaven. It was only at a
very much later period that the word "heaven" became asso-
dated with a place of reward and blessedness.
There is a theory put forth, however, that that which is
called the firmament was a shell of dense water vapor a_the
result of the cooling of the planet, completely surrounding the
1 Ry to Ui.. Uiuw,., Curtlgs, 232.
a The Ev.lgtioi, of the Earth aad It: Iah.Mlaist,, Yale Univ. Press, 33-7.
143
144 Thc Key of Destiny
earth and shutting out the direct light of the Sunthe con-
densation and precipitation of which caused the flood. Al-
though this theory does not entirely agree with the inner teach-
ings, yet like most visions seen in the astral light and more or
less imperfectly understood, it has some modicum of truth.
The word firmament is "to make firm, a support," hence this
firmament is, let us say, the natural phenomena caused by
the separation or settling of the dense matter and the rising of
the more ethereal, a strong, firm and impassable barrier to all
partides either of matter or of Being affinitized to the denser
levels, yet all embraced in the Great Deep, or we might say
brought forth by the same Divine Mother. Again it is the
water of the Great Deep separated into its constituent elements,
fire, air and water, the three Mothers. Therefore we speak
of the Sea of Humanity and the Ocean of Life. Makara, the
original name for the? tenth sign of the zodiac, means a croco-
dile and is associated with water. Another aspect of water
is the astral light which is also called the Great Mother. Water
in all its forms is called the Mother Principle. We also speak
of Mother Earth2 from whose bosom we spring and to whose
bosom we return, yet the earth without water is barren.
The Latin name for sea is mare. The formation of the letter
"M" is a conventionalized glyph for the waves, thus ,n and
in ibis form it is used by American Indians and others. This
is also the symbol of the sign Aquarius, the Water Bearer.
Nearly every name given to the mother of a great Sun mi-
tiate or associated with water begins with the letter "M."
"Maitreya is the name of the Fifth Buddha, and the Kalki
Avatara of the Brahmans, the last Messiah who will come at
the culmination of the Great Cycle. It is also the initial letter
of the Greek Metis, or Divine Wisdom; Mimra, the Word or
Logos; and of Mithras, the Mihr, the Monad Mystery. All
these are born in and form the Great Deep and are the Sons of
Maya, the Mother in Egypt, Moot."3 Thus we have Mary, the
See Ths Ms,s.gt of Aqoar.. Curhu, Cbapter IX.
$ TA. Secret Dodr,,s.. Blav.bky. I. 412.
THE 13TH TAROT CARD
DEATH
J'apus MEDIEVAL TYPES Papist
Smith
MODERN TYPE
St. Gt,main
EGYPTIAN TYPE
Mem 145
mother of Jesus; Myrrha, mother of Bacchus; Mafr, mother of
Hermes; Maya Maria, mother of the Siamese Savior, Som-
mona Cadom; Myrrlia, mother of the Greek Adonis; Maya,
mother of Agni; Maya, mother of Buddha; Miriam, the
prophetess mother of Israel; Mizram, mother of Joshua;
Minerva, the Virgin Queen. Among the Greeks, Rhea, wife
of Krosos, was worshipped as Marid, mother of Mithros, and
Mylitta, mother of Tammuz. Also the month of May has al-
ways been considered as sacred to motherhood, hence it is
considered unlucky to marry in that month if motherhood is
not desired immediately. Moses was given his name because
he was taken out of the water, et cetera.
Hieroglyphically Mem is preeminently the maternal and
plastic sign. It is woman co-equal with man. Mem desig-
nates regeneration, the resultant from previous destruction,
also the Divine Motherhood that has gained from experience.
Just as water washes away that which is soiled or contaminated
and purifies that which is defiled, so it regenerates and brings
forth a new springtime from out of the depth of winter. There-
fore is Mem also called the Great Work.
Water is spoken of as forming cold, in contradistinction to
the heat of fire; for only as the Great Deep engulfed the burn-
ing seething mass of molten ethereal matter of the globe could
it begin its physical evolution, bring forth and become a fit
place for man's further evolution.
THE THIRTEENTH TAROT CARD.
Death.
This card represents a skeleton holding a scythe with whicl
he is mowing down a field. The field is filled with human
heads, but as fast as they are cut down, hands and feet spring
up in their places. The meaning of this is that the ideals and
conceptions of the head very often seem to be cut down by
the mower Death, yet they become immortalized through their
realization by hands (the power of accomplishment) and feet
146 The Key of Destiny
(the understanding) in the next incarnation or in other gen-
erations which follow. Therefore this card expresses the idea
of reincarnation or a renewal of life after destruction.
The thirteenth card has its evil or negative aspect as a
symbol of necromancy, or the evocation of the shades of the
dead, for here we find the gaunt skeleton returning to earth
through magical formulæ to reap his harvest. It can readily
be seen, however, that this is but a misunderstanding and per-
version of the true meaning, which is the renewal of life and
return to incarnation of the Souls harvested by Death that
they may work out that which they have sown; and not the
evocation of the empty shells or cast-off astral envelopes in-
capable of thought. Thus while the Great MotherDivine
Loveis its true symbol, its evil side has for its symbol what
Eliphas Levi describes as the Queen of the World, "Knowest
thou that old queen of the world who is on the march always
and wearies never? Every uncurbed passion, every selfish
pleasure, every licentious energy of humanity, and all its
tyrannous weakness, go before the sordid mistress of our tear-
ful valley, and scythe in hand, these indefatigable laborers
reap their eternal harvest"4
The Bible calls .her the scarlet woman. "Come hither; I
will shew unto thee the judgment of the great whore that
sitteth on many waters: with whom the kings of the earth
have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth
have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication."5
As long as the place of the Divine Mother is taken up by this
creature, the earth and its inhabitants must bring forth in sin,
and while they do so, Death the Reaper is a blessing. To live
forever subject to the whims of this old Queen of the World
who has usurped the Divine Motherhood would be unbearable.
Hence in this respect Death the Reaper is in truth a beneficent
friend. We need the sleep of so-called death, not only that
our consciousness being transferred to another plane may see
4T.wcei,de,,t.l Jf.gw. IÅvi. 181.
IRt,eg$,. XVII. 1-2.
Mem 147
the happenings of our past life from a new angle and thus
judge the hidden springs of action, but we also need it that
we may wait patiently for the harvest we sowed in our past
life to grow and be reaped, that when we again return we
may take up the task of separating the wheat from the tares.
This could not be done in one life, since both must grow to-
gether till the harvest. Only when the skeleton Reaper has put
in his scythe and we have had our eyes opened and have been
able to look at our work from an entirely new viewpoint in
the higher realms, are we able to distinguish which is which.
Therefore since in our next earth life our work must be
burning the tares and gathering the wheat into the garner,
physical immortality without re-generation would be a bitter
curSe.
CHAPTER XXL
Number 14. TuE MENmI.. Fornr.uATI0N.
Every weekthat is every fourteen thousand
yearsthe soul bathes itself and reposes in the jubi-
lee dream of forgetfulness."The Kabbalah Un-
veiled, Mathers, 37.
Just as we found number four to be the Foundation Stone
or the physical basis upon which nature is built, so we may look
upon number 14 as being the Foundation Stone in the mental
world or the Mental Foundation upon which must be built
the higher menta1 conceptions of Truth.
As we have said elsewhere,1 "After having laid the founda-
tion stone, with its four-fold base, upon which the personality
must be sacrificed, yet which is necessary to a true foundation,
let us lay one more stone upon the pyramid of truth which we
are erecting in our lives. Since this pyramid is to be our Tower
of Truth in the three worlds, until we have its foundation
laid in each of the worlds our Tower cannot; reach into the
heavens. This stone we will call our mental foundation stone.
"The Hermetic axiom, 'As above so below, as below so
above,' applies in all realms. Just as in the creation of a
world the rocks must first solidify and take form ere the work
of creation can proceed, so in the mental world our concep.
tions of Truth must solidify and take form crc our mental
world can be founded upon a rock, crc we can truly enter upor
the Path of Illumination."
This Mental Foundation the Soul must lay for itself, firsi
through the mental analysis and then through the synthesis
of the experiences gained in the completed cycle of numbei
ten. For number 14 is all that number four symbolizes, witt
the power of number ten added. We must also consider i
from the digital valuation of 1+4=5 or humanity (5), thi
thinking being or nanas, the mn who has recognized in him
iSee !ei.oc, The M.taI Fee,ÅaÑn, Curti,..
ia
The Mental Foundation 149
self the One Life and consciously laid his Foundation Stone
1(4) in the mental world and upon it begun the erection of his
[reinpie of the Living Christ.
Number 14 is called the Number of the Mental Foundation
because it is only when the mind of man has laid a finn founda-
tion and knows on what to build up his mental structure that
he can become a balanced thought-producer. Without such a
foundation his thoughts are but fleeting and are not spiritually
vital; mere waves of thought-force often not his own which
are passing through his mind; thought-forces of the com-
munity in which he dwells. But a balanced mind, while still
receiving the thought-waves of the community, ha gained the
ability to weigh them and reject those which do not appeal
to him or which do not harmonize with the ideals he has set
for himself. He can also help transmute th error he finds in
the community-thought and send it forth again in corrected
and helpful thought-waves.
In short, one who has laid for himself this Mental Founda-
tion, in a large measure is master of his thoughts, hence is a
leader of the thoughts of others. One who has thus balanced
his own mind becomes to the community a rock or jetty
against which the waves of adverse, trifling and impractical
thoughts may toss yet never override; a breakwater which
turns the tides of thought into wise and helpful channels.
Number 14 therefore represents the man who has balanced
his mind or put his mental house in order and who has laid
four-square the cubic stone whose four corners are Perception,
Promptness, Pcrscverencc and Perfection, as described by us
elsewhere thus:
"He who recognizes his power to perceive spiritually is
approaching the last corner. He is carving the corner of Per-
ception. He has Perception in its wider sense. He is Prompt
and eager because he perceives something true to be attained.
He is like a miner who after years of toil and hardship at last
sees traces of gold. How Prompt are his actions! How
indefatigable and persistent are his efforts! If all his hardships
150 The Key of Destiny
are endured for the possible possession of physical gold, how
much more eager should be our efforts and our perseverence
once we have truly perceived the possibility of obtaining spirit-.
ual gold!
"When we approach the illumination of the mind; when we
begin to perceive spiritually with the Third Eye, no matter what
we fix our attention upon we will see it with spiritual percep-
tion. We will know how to find the answer to our every
question. This Eye, however, does not open all at once, but
follows the Law of Growth. Sometimes there is a flash of
spiritual perception which overwhelms the Novice, but which
is immediately followed by darkness more profound than
before. This is not the final opening of the Eye, but it should
convince us that its continuous functioning is possible. The
true opening of the Third Eye is a great step upon the Path,
yet it is not the end; for we still have our Spiritual Foundation
Stone to carve and lay. It is but the completion of the Mental
Foundation Stone, the acme of Perfection."2
When these three corners are carved and erected the disciple
will be surprised to find that the fourth corner has ap-
parently carved itself in the night while he slept, or during
the long days when he was so busy with the other three Ps.
This fourth corner P is perfection, and he will wonder at its
attainment, even as the prince did when he found his
wonderful palace erected, in a night by the magician. For
every one has a magician to work for him once he learns how
to command him. We call this magician the Will, which never
fails to work its wonders for all who make it their servant.
But like Aladdin we must polish up the Lamp of Truth, keep
it bright and shining, and whenever we call upon our magician
we must rub the lamp; for Truth pure, bright, shining and
uncovered is the lamp or receptacle for the divine Light of
Illumination, and the magician will only obey one who knows
how to keep this lamp polished, trimmed and burning. It is
only when we cultivate the Will and recognize it as a wonder
working magician, given us to use and not to shut up in a
MemtuJ dc1ioa.Oirti.
The Mental Foundation 151
dungeon, that we can gain even that. so much desired gift of
earthly prosperity, to say nothing of spiritual prosperity. In
number 14 we must awaken this magician from his sleep and
set him to work.
Moreover our Mental Foundation Stone must be a perfect
cube. To make it a cube we must determine to see all sides
òf every question presented to us. Many persons develop the
mind in a groove, seeing but one side. When this is done, in-
stead of the Will being a magician it is but a slave; instead
of using our magician to build us a wonderful castle, we find
that because the foundation is not square and true, we must
force him to build on one side only. Hence, no matter how
powerful he may be, all that he can erect for us is a high stone
wall which shuts us away from our fellow men and restricts
and narrows all our beliefs. Here, carefully sheltered behind
this great wall of separation, we live in a world of our own
conception where we cease growing spiritually because we
have cut off our sympathetic communication with the outside
world. And any one who dares to climb up and look over our
wall we throw stones at or ridicule and drive away.
Here also "phantoms of the mind" or distorted reflections
and conceptions of facts and ideas, instead of being checked
up and corrected by contact with other minds, are built up
into delusions which, by repeated contemplation, become so
powerful as to blind us to, and in our mental life take the
place of, realities. Such phantoms are often difficult th
disintegrate and displace, even by positive proof and physical
facts. We speak of such persons as having a peculiar "bias of
mind" which prevents them from clear thinking. Usually
such delusions are confined to a single idea or line of thought,
but when they are systematized the logical deductions dc.
rived from them affect all other lines of thought and action.
Such persons are called "paranoiacs," one of the most dan-
gerous types of insanity, for they are beyond the reach of
reason, logic and fact. Hence in the stage represented by
152 The Key of Destiny
number 14 we must strive always for mental soundness and
squareness.
To our four-square Mental Foundation we must add the
10 of Perfection. This however we must realize to be but a
step, although a perfect step. Do not think as so many do that
a Mental Foundation Stone four-square and perfect is all that
is needed, for on this Stone we must build a tower that shall
penetrate the clouds of earth, with many windows looking in
all directions, each one clear as crystal, so that from the rising
of the Sun even to its going down it shall light up the windows
and fill our tower with Spiritual Light.
Number 14 is called the Number of Delusions, but when we
realize that it is the foundation of our thoughts, we know there
is no delusion that is not the effect of wrong thinking, also that
only the uncontrolled reaction can delude us; only the mind
can turn our good magicianwho waits our directions to build
us a palace of pure gold and crystalinto a black magician
who shall forever evoke for us the powers and principalities of
evil and rule us through mental delusion. Let us then culti-
vate the Will and furnish it a square foundation and there
will be nothing to fear.
The number 14 must also be considered as 7+7=14.
Since we have seen that seven is the Sabbath Day of rest in
which the Soul finds refreshment, so in 14 we find another
Sabbath Day, but not the same as in number seven, for here
it is the mind that rests. We have back of us the memory of
the struggles and triumphs during our journey from one to ten.
We can look to the Sabbath Day of number seven and re-
member the sweet converse of our spiritual guide and the re--
freshment of our weary limbs. We have the sure personal
knowledge that there is a rest and a fulfillment, because we
have already experienced it once. Therefore we can now
trustingly lay aside all our mental worries, all our doubts and
perplexities, knowing that we have reached the Sabbath of
mental rest where we shall find refreshment and strength to
go on climbing to greater heights. Indeed so long as the
The Mental Foundation 153
rational mind struggles or argues the Divine Mind cannot il-
lumine or impress it. Only as we quiet the mind and rest can
we hear the Still Small Voice of the Higher Self.
As we have seen in number seven, there are seven Portals
on this Journey and we may call number 14 the Second Portal.
At each Portal we must pause, study the path we have
traversed, rest and gain strength to go on. Here we must
make sure we have obtained the key that will unlock for us
the Portal. For only after we have mounted all the forty-
nine steps can we knock at the door of the Seventh Portal.
Each Portal reached is evidence that we have gained perfection
in that one particular. As we read in The Voice of the Silence3
"Each Portal bath a golden key that openeth its gate," and
for the second Portal we need the key of "Harmony in word
and act, the key that counterbalances the cause and thq effect,
and leaves no room for karmic action." Hence the key of
harmony can be obtained only by a balanced mind obedient
to the Will.
Also, since number seven completes the first octave of
creation or is the number in which the Divine Creative Fire
or Christ-force in nature has found its first perfect adjustment,
so in number 14 man must take hold of himself and of all his
wonderful powers as a creator and bring under the control
of his Will this same Christ-power or creative fire. He must
learn through experience firstly, that he is not a mere puppet
through whom this mighty creative force surges, creating in
him and through him with no volition of his own, even as it
manifests in nature to perfect a flower or with equal case a
noxious weed. In man it cannot work thus, because of his
free-will to determine whether it shall be a flower or a weed
that he creates. If his will is not used to guide, it will always
be an impediment. Ere he knocks at the gate of the Second
Portal (the fourteenth step) he must be a worker with the
Divine, a conscious agent for the use and manipulation of the
S Blavatsicy 50.
154 The Keij of Destiny
Divine Creative-force. He must know what it is and how to
use it, subject to his awakened and spiritualized Will He
must realize that it is always creative and that he is responsible
for all the children (creations) of his thoughts, as well as the
offspring of his deliberate determination to create and bring
forth, in perfect accord with his Will, physical bodies or
temples in which divine Souls may incarnate. This he can
accomplish only when his Mental Foundation is laid true and
four-square. Only thus can he learn how to think and how to
become a conscious creator, for he has taken hold of thought-
force as the vehicle of Creative Fire to make it obey his Will.
'Tis here as we approach this gate we hear the Master's voice
speaking in no uncertain tones, saying, "Have mastery o'er thy
thoughts, 0 striver for perfection, if thou wouldst cross its
threshold safely."
The ancient Greeks associated the number 14 with rein-
carnation, their doctrine being that as the Soul about to be
reborn on earth drank of the waters of Lethe ere it took up
another pilgrimage, so in number 14 we again take on human-
ity, or number five, the number of man, but now reborn or
made up of 1O-j-4=14=1-f4=5. Hence they assert that at
14 the struggle with matter must recommence. But they failed
to lay stress upon the fact that the Soul at every rebirth enters
earth life with all the wisdom gained during his ex-carnate
life from contemplating the experiences and lessons of his
past earth-life, stored up in the Higher Self as power gained,
and then built into his new born body and brain as character
and inherent faculties. Hence in 14 he begins where the
old life left off or rather takes another step in experience.
There is therefore greater reason for associating reincarna-
tion with number eleven, as we have done, than with
number 14.
In the Sepher Yetzirah the fourteenth Path of Wisdom is
called the Path of Illuminating Intelligence, thus corroborat-
ing what we have said about its being the Number of the
The Mental Foundation 155
Mental Foundation. Also the Moon, the planet of inspiration,
waxes and wanes in periods of 14 days each.
Number 14 rules the boundary of the Great Circle or Ring
Pass Not, and is also sometimes called the Rope of the Angds.
Anagrammatically and cabalistically 14 is expressed as 31415,
for whichever way the figures are counted they equal 14. But
31415 is the incommensurable number which denotes the ratio
of the circumference of a circle to its diameter, and since
the sum of its digits is 14 it makes 14 a fitting symbol of
the Ring Pass Not.
The Egyptians taught that after Set had slain Osiris he
cut the body into 14 pieces. Osiris as the Sun-God, and also in
one aspect as the ruler of the nether regions, symbolized Man
as the Sun Initiate4 As he reaches this point every man
who is following the inner mystical life may be said to be
slain and cut into 14 parts, for he has slain or sacrificed the
personality (5), which is the sum of the Divine (1) mani-
festing on earth (4), the five being composed of 14 or 1-f4.
But we are also told that Isis, the true Priestess of the Inner
Mysteries, gathered the 14 pieces and put them together and
made Osiris a god. Some day when Isis comes as bride as
well as mother, man will find that all things on alT planes that
he cuts from himself at this fourteenth step will be given
back to him to be purified. Isis as bride and mother is an-
other mystery symbolizing the Great Mother Principle in
nature and man, which must be espoused by the Sun Initiate.
In its mother aspect it gives man his spiritual birth, and later,
when man has made the higher correlation with it, it be-
comes his bride, the power through which he is able to put
together, synthesize and bring forth as a god. Each Initiate
is an Osiris or a Christ-man in so far as he is capable of
expressing the divine Osiris or Christ-principle.
Apollonius calls 14 the fifth hour of Initiation, "The waters
4Not only was every man who psased his Initiation called Osiris. but every
man who died was taken hefore the judgment, and if he psased his judgment he
was then called an Osiri.
156 The Key of Destiny
above the heavens." Here the Disciple must become ac
quainted with the great astral currents, for in the astral world
the currents are terrific. And just as a mariner must learn
to steer his ship so as to take advantage of the currents of
wind and water, so ere the Disciple ventures consciously into
the astral regions he must study and know just how and
where and why these terrific currents of astral force mani-
fest and must utilize them, or we might say, command them.
Long before this step is reached the student may enter these
regions, but should never do so alone or unprepared. When
he requests it he is always guided and taught and the hand
of a wise though often invisible Master steers him in safety
through the currents, just as we sail the ocean unthinkingly
depending on the knowledge of the Captain to guide us
safely through the currents of wind and sea. But during this
hour the Disciple must learn to steer his own hark through the
currents of the astral sea and not only consciously enter it
alone and unprotected, save by his Soul armor, but master
and navigate its currents as well as control its inhabitants.
In the earlier steps of the second hour he must learn to con-
trol the earth forces, even the wind and th sea. Of the true
Sun Initiate, as of Jesus, it can be said: 'What manner of
ma is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him !" But
in the fifth hour he becomes Superman and the waters and
winds in the astral above the firmament must also obey him.
CHAPTER XXII.
The Fourteenth Letter. NUN ()
"That day has been prepared for the elect as a day
of covenant; and for sinners as a day of inquisition.
In that day shall be distributed for food two mon-
sters; a female monster, whose name is Leviathan,
dwelling in the depths of the sea, above the springs
of waters; and a male monster whose name is
Behemoth; which possesses, moving on his breast,
the invisible wilderness."Book of Enoch, 67.
"He produced Nun, predominant in smell, crowned
it, combined and formed with it Scorpio in the Uni-
verse, Heshvan in the year, and the intestines of
man."Sepher Yetzirah, 24.
The fourteenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Nun ( ).
It is one of the simple letters and corresponds to the zodiacal
sign Scorpio. Its meaning is given as a fish or something
springing from the primordial waters; something which has
its existence, not only from the very beginning of the inani-
festation of this planet ere the waters of the Great Deep were
broken up, but also something that swims or exists in the
mother element (water) which underlies the manifestation of
all life, or we might say something which dwells in the very
substance from which all life on this planet must spring.
From the earliest ages a fish has been associated with the
deep hidden mystery of the manifestation of the Divine and
its action in the world of matter. As we have frequently
pointed out, any word or idea which endures for ages and
is taken up and expressed in many different forms of religious
thought, does so because it expresses some deep truth. So
it is with this symbol of the fish, for its fundamental sym-
bology is the esoteric or hidden doctrine common to all re-
ligions. Among the Hindus the first Avatar of Vishnu was
represented as half fish and half man, just as were the Chal
dean Oannec, the Phenician and Philistian Dagon, the Greek
Phoibos and the Hindu Durga. The ancient Mexicans and
Peruvians also had semi-fish gods. And in the Hebrew Tal-
157
158 The Key of Destiny
mud the Messiah is frequently referred to as "Dag" the Fish,
while the common symbol for the followers of Jesus during
the early centuries was likewise a fish. There is also a certain
version of the deluge in which the ark is represented as being
drawn through the waters by a huge fish.
The Hawaiians believe in a sacred shark which dwells in
the waters surrounding their Islands, and they have many
legends of great Leaders or Gods having been cast over-
board and guided safely to land through the swift and treach-
erous currents of their tempestuous channels and seas by
either riding on the back of the shark or holding to its tail.
Orpheus is also said to have been cast overboard from a
ship by his superstitious sailors and to have been saved by
a huge dolphin. All these myths are very similar to that of
Jonah, and with precisely the same esoteric meaning, namely,
that he was swallowed (retired from outer life) for the three
periodsthe three days in the belly of the fish, corresponding
to the three days in the tomb 'of the Great Initiation into
Esoteric Wisdom before he was prepared to preach to the
people of Nineveh.
Jesus told His disciples, when they asked Him for a sign,
that there would be no sign given save that of the prophet
Jonah, i. e., the sign of the fish, the inner esoteric wisdom
which alone should assure them of the truth of His teachings
and protect them when cast into the turbulent sea of human-
ity. The Christ chose His disciples from among fishermen,
even as He does today, i. e., from among those who are fishing
in this great sea for esoteric wisdom. And to them He still
speaks and assures them that they shall become "fishers of
men."
All this apparent worship of the fish is usually looked upon
by mythologists as a sign of a primitive and superstitious
nature, but in reality it reveals the fact that at least the seers
and the true priesthood of those early nations understood the
'See lesson Three Dews in The Tosob. Curths
Nun 159
deep spiritual import of this universal symbol. For in each
case the various deities represented by the Great Fish were
the Avatars to the various races and also the Hierophants
who presided over the initiations of mortals into the inner
and sacred degrees of the Wisdom Religion, the fish repre-
senting the understanding and realization of the inner mys-
tery of that power which ever draws the ark of man's life
safely through the raging waters of the sea of humanity. And
it is this same fundamental idea held by the Hawaiians,
although in many cases ignorantly, which causes them to
revere the King of Sharks as the protector of their Islands
and of their fast disappearing religion.
This is also the meaning of the allegory of Jesus feeding
the multitude with five loaves of bread and the two small
fishes, which although continually feeding the multitude were
never consumed. The five loaves symbolize the exoteric doc-
trine which can be grasped through the five outer senses,
while the two fishes refer to the mysteries of the esoteric
doctrine which can only be grasped by man's two inner senses;
also the mystery of the two, male and female, united into
one flesh through that mysterious force of attraction called
love, one aspect of which manifests through the attraction
of sex. When the power of love rises from the level of the
outer conceptions of the sea oL humanity and ascends into
heaven it truly becomes the Initiator and Hierophant of the
unfolding Disciple.
In Psalms2 we find the same doctrine; "Thou breakest
the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gayest him to be meat to
the people inhabiting the wilderness." This may well be a
prophecy of the age upon which we are now just entering:
when this Great Fish of esoteric teaching pertaining to the
lifting up of god-like power to create will be given to the
people to eat in the same mystical sense that we are told to
eat the body of Christ. That this is the great task confronting
2 LXXIV. 14.
160 The Key of Destiny
every Soul who seeks Initiation into the Mysteries is indicated
by the question asked Job3 at his Initiation, namely, could he
draw up out of the depths of his nature this mighty leviathan
and feed on its flesh?
The leviathan is a fabulous monster which symbolizes the
deep unexpressed power of attraction between the sexes. It
is a monster as Enoch tells us, which dwells in the depths of
the sea, i. e., it is the most all-compelling force dwelling in
the sea of humanity. It also dwells "above the springs of
water," i. e., that which like the springs of water nourishes
and replenishes the great sea of humanity. It is a monster
in that it continually devours (in the form of lust) the purity
and beauty of man's creations. Its slimy trail is over the
land so that it has even been questioned by the seeker after
Esoteric Wisdom if it be possible to find the Path of Wisdom
until this monster has been killed past resurrection. Yet we
find that Job in his Initiation is asked by the Lord or the
Great Initiator, "Canst thou draw out leviathan with a hook?
or his tongue with a cord which thou lettest down?" Any
one who reads carefully the entire forty-first chapter of Job
will see that back of the symbolical language the meaning
here given is plainly indicated. To quote a few points: "Will
he speak with soft words unto thee? will he make a covenant
with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant forever? wilt
thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou bind him for
thy maidens? . . . Shall not one be cast down even at the
sight of him? none is so fierce that dare stir him up." And Job
answers: "I will not conceal his parts nor his power, nor his
comely proportion . . . Who can come to him with his
double bridle? . . . his eyes are like the eyelids of the
morning. Out of his mouth go burning lamps, and sparks of
fire leap out. . . . His breath kindleth coals, and a flame
goeth out of his mouth . . . sorrow is turned into joy
before him. . . . When he raiseth up himself, the mighty
$ XLL
Nun 161
are afraid: by reason of breakings they purify themselves.
He esteemeth iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.
The arrow cannot make him flee. - . . He laugheth at the
shaking of a spear. . . . He maketh a path to shine after
him. . . . Upon earth there is not his like. . . He
beholdeth all high things: he is a king over all the children of
pride."
From all this we must gather that this greatest of all forces,
which is a monster if permitted to rule in the depths of our
natures, is nevertheless not to be killed but to be tamed, used
and transformed into the crowning blessing of life, given us
by our Creator not as a danger to fly from or a monster to be
ruthlessly killed, but something necessary for the sustenance
of our spiritual life, as we have seen in the heading of this
Chapter. This overpowering dual force, in the day when we
conquer it and fearlessly face its lower aspect or draw it out
of the sea by a hook and place it in the waters above the
firmament, will be given us for food; that is, all humanity
will eat of it in the same inner sense in which we are told to
eat of the flesh of the Christ, i. e., assimilate its power, be
nourished by its virtues and partake of its blessings.
Joshua, to whom Moses handed over the reins of govern-
ment after he the Law Giver (the exoteric teacher) had led
them out of Egypt, was called the Son of Nun, i. e., an esoteric
teacher. True esoteric teachers must begin by teaching how
to lift up the Eagle from the lair of the scorpion that it may
nest on high. As long as the banner of Scorpio displays only
"the Serpent by the way, the adder in the path," we are strug-
gling in the sea. Many would-be captains or teachers while
riding in the ship of personality on this sea, when the winds
and1 waves threaten to swamp the boat, cast Jonah overboard,
1. e., declare the whole question taboo, and one who like Jonah
would preach the higher esoteric doctrine is to them but a
creator of storms, hence should be thrown overboard. But
if Jonah be truly sent by the Lord the Great Fish will receive
and oreserve him.
162 The Key of Destiny
Just as the sea or Mare is called the Great Mother, and the
fish is the product of the sea, so hieroglyphically the letter
Nun by some interpreters is called "the offspring," and is
associated with production. It is also called the sign of
individual and corporeal existence. In this sense it is easy
to see its association with the zodiacal sign Scorpio, for in
that sign we have the great problem of sex set before us;
first in its aspect of the scorpion whose bite brings death,
yet which in its senseless anger turns on itself and stings itself
to death, symbolizing the results of uncontrolled sexual de-
basement. Secondly, in its symbol as the eagle, i. e., the
lessons of sex learned or lifted up, it shows that through
the experience thus gained there comes the ability to fulfill
the prophecy "Ye have seen . . . how I bare you on eagles'
wings, and brought you unto myself. . . . But they that
wait on the Lord (Law) shall renew their strength; they shall
mount up with the wings of eagles."4 Also one of the ques-
tions asked of Job at his Initiation was, "Doth the eagle
mount up at thy command and make her nest on high ?" i. e.,
bring forth and nourish her young in the higher realms.
Nun is said to be predominant in smell. Now it is a curious
fact that most perfumes manufactured by man have as a
base musk, which is extracted from the dried testicles of the
musk ox. All such perfumes are both heavy and sensuous,
and in the early ages, especially among the Orientals, such
perfumes were used only by the ladies of the harem and by
courtesans. It is strongly advised that all pupils who are
earnestly striving to follow the higher life be very careful
in the use of perfume. In fact, it is better not to use any,
for as the Soul unfolds it develops its own perfume, just as
does a flower. On the higher planes this spiritual fragrance
is quite distinguishable and is a decided factor in attracting
to the advancing Soul such helpers and forces as are needed,
while heavier perfumes, especially those with a musk base,
E,QLVS. XIX. 4. Iz.i.Js. XL. 31.
Nun 163
are strong factors in attracting a class of astral entities whose
sole desire is to prolong their own miserable lives upon that
delusive plane, hence strive by every means to stimulate the
lower passions of mankind that they may vicariously assim-
ilate the life-force thrown off. Also when the Great Teachers
(Masters of Wisdom) desire to approach a pupil, the pupil
should have every sense alert to detect their presence. If
acute, the sense of smell can be readily utilized by a Master,
often only a waft of the Master's characteristic perfume be-
ing given as a signal to the pupil of his presence. But if the
sense of smell has been stultified or overpowered by artificial
perfumes, this sense cannot be used to detect "the fragrance
of his presence." The Masters need no perfumes to attract
them, hence the use of any perfume on the person such as
sandalwood, et cetera, to evoke their presence or invoke their
aid, is worse than useless, the perfume of love, aspiration
and devotion arising from a pure heart being all that is neces-
sary. As well might a rosebush seek to attract lovers of its
beautiful bloom by drenching undeveloped stalks with an arti-
ficial rose perfume.
The letter Nun also expresses concentration and harmony.
By some it is associated with home-love. But to carry out
the idea of esotericism they aver that this home-love is not
such as seeks for outer display and recognition by the world,
but perfect love and harmony within the home life.
CHAPTER XXIII.
The Fourteenth Tarot Card. TEMPERANCE.
'Temperance is a bridle of gold; he who uses it
rightly is more like a god than like a man."Burton.
The fourteenth card of the Tarot is called Temperance and
is associated with the sign Scorpio. This card pictures a
young woman with wings holding a vase in each hand. In
her left hand she holds a vase of silver (metal of the Moon)
from which she is pouring a clear liquid into a golden (metal
of the Sun) vase held lower down in her right hand.
The liquid thus transferred symbolizes the Water of Life,
the all-creative bringer forth of life, the life-essence or crea-
tive force which must be transferred from one vase to the
other during the process of creation, without a drop being
spilled by the intrusion of a thought of evil or by the dis-
traction of the attention to sensation or mundane affairs. It
also symbolizes that we must transfer this force from the
imaginative state, 1. e., Moon, into the activity of the Sun with-
out loss. This is to say, while imagination or the power to
create mental images is a most potent force in creation, we
must see to it that the images thus created are pure and
golden.
We naturally find that the maiden who is performing this
difficult feat has wings, symbolizing that she has taken a step
higher than earth; is able to fly into higher realms in thought.
In short, since this card corresponds with Scorpio, it shows
that the Eagle is at least born in her mind and heart, for as
long as man is under the lower or deadly stinging aspect of
Scorpio, the transfer of the life-force from the silver into
the golden vase cannot be accomplished without spilling
(losing or perverting) it.
This card also symbolizes that it is only the virgin pure
mind, with the capacity to soar above the earth and the
14
LA TEMPERNOEJ
Papus
St. Ger,,,ain
EGYPTIAN TYPE
THE 14TH TAROT CARD
TEMPERANCE
MEDIEVAL TYPES Papus
TEMPERANCE.
Smith
MODERN TYPE
Temperance 16
worldly and perverted conceptions of sex, that can accomplish
this task. To be laid square and firm, the Mental Foundation
must be cemented by the use of the Water of Life. The Will
must be so developed and the imagination (silver, Moon) so
purified that in pouring from the silver to the golden vase
the imagination shall be turned into creative energy without
loss or defilement.
In one of the most noted Temples in long past ages, all
that is symbolized in this card was expressed in a symbolic
ceremony celebrated every evening at sunset. This ceremony,
foreshadowing as it did the perfect equilibrium and balance
between the sexes and the lifting up of the life-forces into a
higher manifestation, was considered most sacred.
It was performed by a pure virgin Priestess who had been
educated in the Temple and kept from all profanation. And
woe to her if by any mischance or by distraction of attention,
one drop of the Water of Life in the vase should be spilled
upon the ground; for this would reverse the whole symbology.
The water thus spilled on the ground would symbolize that
aspect of the Water of Life used only for physical procreation
or poured forth on the earth to bring forth the fruits of the
earth, both of which are perfectly right in their places, but
not in a ceremony performed by a virgin Priestess. There--
fore, should such a thing happen, it would indicate that she
either had or was destined to fall away from the pure worship,
hence was no longer fitted to make propitiation to the gods
for the shortcomings of the people. In this Temple the
esoteric truth was understood, namely, the real creative power
of thought and Will, especially when emphasized through a
mystical ceremony, every act of which helped to impress the
thought held and to strengthen the Will. And it was this
esoteric truth, supposed to be known only to the Priestess,
which was indicated by the Water of Life in the silver vase
held in her left hand, which she as Priestess must pour into
the golden one in her right, namely, this esoteric truth must
be poured out for humanity and made exoteric, yet only into
166 The Key of Destiny
a vase of pure gold or those pure minds who were fitted to
receive it. Hence the spilling of a drop meant that the task
had failed.
The Temple in which this ceremony was performed was
a many storied structure, having in its center a high tower
with battlemented parapets. Access to the several stories of
its tower was obtained by a circular flight of steps with a
broad romp winding round and round on the outside. The
tower formed the entire center or core of the Temple, with
rooms surrounding it on each story, all opening outwardly
on to the romp. At its base it spread out into an immense
audience chamber, with an altar in the very center, upon which
burned a perpetual fire.
The tower was surmounted by a wonderful crystal dome
which was so constructed on a movable axis as to be a mighty
reflector and burning glass. It was so arranged that it caught
the first rays of the rising Sun and the last rays of the setting
Sun and focused them upon an altar directly under the dome.
By this powerful focus the rays of the Sun in that hot dimate
started the fire for the morning sacrifice, the wood for which
was saturated with highly inflammable substances and laid
in readiness.
The altar in the center of the audience chamber was
reached by seven stone steps or platforms entirely surround-
ing it, the fourth step being a broader platform on which
most of the ceremonies of the Temple were performed. The
High Priest and the acolytes were permitted to ascend the
fifth and sixth steps, but only the virgin Priestess could
ascend the seventh step, for it was upon this step that the
mystical ceremony of transmuting the life-force took place.
This ceremony, which was performed at sunset, began by
twelve maidens and twelve youths each robed in appropriate
colors symbolizing the forces of the zodiac, and arranged
according to the forces predominating at the timeascending
to the fourth step and there performing the mystical Sun-
dance.
Temperance 167
At a certain signal the Priestess, who was dressed in a
wonderful robe of translucent glistening white, ascended to
the seventh step and there stood with the lurid light of the
altar fire shining through the folds of her robe, and with the
golden beams of the setting Sun reflected around her head
like a golden halo. Then a kneeling acolyte handed her the
two vases, one in either hand. Into the silver vase a Priest
dressed in full pontifical attire poured from a crystal vase
held high, the water which had been blessed, very much as
the Priest of today blesses the baptismal water.
In an intense hush and illuminated by the raýs of the sink-
ing Sun intensified by the reflecting globe, and while the vast
audience was in semi-darkness, the Priestess first sprinkled
an oblation of water upon the Flame that it might be cleansed
through the fire of Divine Love, and then poured the water
from the silver into the golden vase. This ceremony was but
a symbolic outpicturing of a mystical step in attainment which
must be taken on the Path to Mastery by eveiy Soul in some
life when this stage of spiritual unfoldment has been reached.
This is plainly the fundamental symbology of the fourteenth
card.
CHAPTER XXIV.
The Number 15. MAN THE CREATOR. THE AWAKENING.
"All beings, from the first divine emanation, or
'God manifested,' down to the lowest atomic exist-
ence, 'have their particular number which distin-
guishes each of them and becomes the source of
their attributes and qualities as of their destiny?"
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, Ill, 101.
In number 15 we find ourselves confronted with a very
powerful number and one that is very little understood. In
truth it is a most mystical number, combining as it does the
10 of Perfection and the 5 of Humanity, being completed in
the 6 of the Christ-force (1+5=6) struggling into mani-
festation against the inertia of matter. This number might
therefore be called Man, the Redeemer of Matter.
Hence the fundamental meaning of number 15 is Man the
Creator. But he is still blinded by and scarce dares to look at
the pure Light of the Christos (6) on the one hand, and on
the other hand with the 5 of personality so strong that he still
seeks amidst the darkness of the vibrations of his 5 senses
(sensations) for some focus for his faith, thus setting up
his own conceptions and attributing to them the Perfection
of the 10 of God. Therefore in number 15 we see man
standing midway in evolution, but with his face turned toward
the darkness produced by his own black shadow, which is
made more intense by the brilliancy of the Light focused upon
him at this point. The pure Christ-light is beginning to shine
within him like the Sun rising on a new day, its magical life
and warmth stirring in him a great longing for the Light. All
he has to do to find it is to turn around and face it.
No one who has spent a night camping out in a spot far
from mankind and has awakened very early when the first
herald of the dawn begins to appear, but has felt and heard
through the darkness, which at that hour seems even more
dense than at midnight, certain vague stirrings. All nature
lag
Man the Creator. The Awakening 169
seems whispering of the day about to dawn and in the East
a faint streak of light is suggested. One who has experienced
this awakening of nature and has let that experience speak
to his Soul, knows better than any words can tell it the mean-
ing of number 15. This is a very important number, for it
symbolizes that man's darkest night is now behind him, the
vague stirrings within him belonging to the new day. It is
also man standing in the balance, with all the forces of the
Christ like the rising Sun quickening him and with the promise
of his highest and grandest achievements vaguely foreshad-
owed in his mind. It symbolizes a phase of development all
must pass through as individuals and which the Race as a
whole is today facing.
Like all things that are divine, number 15 is a trinity; God,
man and the devil; or God the Light trying to manifest, man
with his back to the Light and the devil or black shadow cast
by man which has become all the more noticeable because of
the brilliancy of the Light behind him.. It is man in a three-
fold aspect, divine within but not yet divine without, although
being quickened and unfolded by the Divine Fire of the Christ-
force or eternal motion and creative energy ever piercing
the density of man's darkness and disobedience and through
kannic readjustment redeeming him. At this step he is
played upon by the dual aspects good and evil, for just as the
devil is an embodiment of anarchy, evil and injustice, so
the Lord is an embodiment of law, order and justice.
Another aspect of 15 is as 5+5+5 or man with his five
senses functioning in the 3 worlds, which can be understood,
balanced and mastered only as he pennits these three fives,
or his five senses in the 3 worlds, to be permeated by the
Christ-force (6) and permit it to include all (5+5+5=15=6)
and open his eyes to the realities of the 3 worlds. According
to the numbering of the planets revealed to John Hayden and
recorded in his Holy Guide, "It will be seen that an extension
of these numbers according to their cosmic order yields the
glyph of the divine number 15, which, as expressing the name
170 The Key of Destiny
of Jah, the Hebrews replace in their enumeration by the 9
and 6. . . Then the sum of the five planetary numbers, plus
half the value of Sun and Moon together equals positive 35,
and negative 34. The sum of those is 69= 15." 1
Among the Hebrews 15 was looked upon as a divine num-
ber since it expressed the name Jah, and as they were for-
bidden either to speak or represent this sacred word, they
always expressed 15, which they called the unmentionable
number, by 9 and 6, at least this is the reason generally given
for thus expressing 15. But we think it far more likely that
9 and 6 were used to express more fully the true meaning
of 15. For as we have pointed out, 9 is the Number of
Initiation, and 6 is the Number of the Christ Principle. It
will be noted that number 6 lacks just one trinity of becom-
ing 9. In other words, number 6 is two interlaced triangles.
man and nature, while 9 adds one more, 1. e., the trinity of
God. Hence to gather the full significance of the Hebraic
meaning attached to 15 we must take this fact into consider-
ation; at 15 man has not yet developed the God in him, hence
is not yet ready for Initiation, but the Christ is striving to pre-
pare him for it. He has attained his supremacy in the two
worlds, mental and natural, but has not yet learned to govern
them by the divine God-power. He is awakening from his sleep
and is beholding appalled that which in his ignorance he has
created. He realizes that the appalling perversion of both
nature and man himself has been his own work. Through
the suffering and terrible consequences he endures he learns
his power and determines to turn around and add Good, or
the third triangle, to his creation.
This idea of the 3x5 is expressed in the Book of Enoch
in regard to the Moon. "When the Moon rises, it appears
in heaven; and the half of the seventh portion of light is all
which is in it. In 14 days the whole of its light is completed.
By 3 quintuples (3x5) light is put into it, until in 15 days
1 Th Kabala of Ntgmbers. Sephathi. IS.
Man the Creitor. The Awakening 171
its light is completed, according to the signs of the year; it
has 3 quintuples." Of course this is both mystical and sym-
bolical language yet if we take the Moon to mean intuition and
personality and the word "quintuple" meaning as it does five-
fold or of 5 parts, at once we see that the idea sought to be
conveyed is that the Light of Intuition illumines his per-
sonality in 3x5 parts. The first although perfect is but a
seventh portion, i. e., the intuition of the childhood of the
Racethe recognition of oneness with nature being very
marked in all primitive Races. The second part is his power
intuitively to create through his own Will and thought either
good or evil. The third part is when his intuition begins to
awaken the personality to its higher God-like possibilities;
for the Moon being full in 15 days is nevertheless but a re--
flection of the light of the Sun. Thus the personality is com-
pletely filled with the Light of the Spiritual Sun only when it
has reached the point of unfoldment symbolized by number 15.
Again 1+2+3+4-1-5=15 and if we take the digits com-
posing 15 and arrange them in a magic square, they can be
made to add up to 15 in 15 or more different ways. This
indicates that 15 represents not individual man, but human-
ity. It also shows that no matter what the differences
among men, either of race, education or condition, yeb all are
brothers and are common heirs to the karmic conditions pro-
duced by the wrong use of their power. These conditions can
be squared only when all find their places in the magic square
of 15. It also indicates, firstly, that there is a great magical
Arcanum, the heritage of the Race, now black because be-
smirched by man's ignorance and disobedience, yet through
the united efforts of humanity, capable of being "washed in
the blood of the Lamb" (the life-force or the Christos 6----);
and, secondly, that the accomplishing of this task is the Great
Work given to all, hence that all are united in one mighty
chain. This chain can bind man to misery, suffering and
degradation or it can' unite him in one strong abiding band of
brotherhood. And as a chain is no stronger than its weakest
172 The Key of Destiny
link, so individual man can never attain perfect freedom alone.
Hence we might say that the slogan of 15 is "one for all, and
all for one."
The Lamb of God is associated with Aries, the first sign
of the zodiac. It has been slain from the foundation of the
world, 1. e., not permitted to function as the river of life-
force of the Race. The tenth sign (Capricorn) which is the
cradle of the Christ, has been degraded and worshipped as
the devil under the name of Baphomet or the Goat of the
Mendes (the river of astral forces) and it is 15 that must
turn both these rivers back into their true beds.2
Again, 15X15=225 and 2+2+5=9. Thus when man as
an individual reaches 15 and then through his awakened
powers multiplies himself in humanity (or loses the sense
of separateness), the entire Race will stand facing 15, con-
fronted with the possibility of the Initiation which shall confer
upon it the god-like possibilities of mastery as a Race. Then
the whole Race, rather than an individual here and there as
at present, will stand before the judgment seat of God or
before the highest judgment of Good, when Good alone shall
be the measure of a man and of a Race. Only when the
majority stands for righteousness will we enter the Golden Age.
Then the City of Confusion shall become the City of the New
Jerusalem, the City of Peace, and all mankind shall walk its
golden streets and there shall be no more night, because man
has turned to the Christ so that his own dark shadow no
longer obstructs the Light of the Sun of Righteousness; for
15 has reached its final adjustment
The terrible carnage of war, and other karmic adjust-
ments which are today overwhelming the world, is not the final
Initiation, for just as man must face many minor Initiations
on his Path of Attainment crc he reaches the Portal of Mas-
tery, so the Race must face minor readjustments (15) at the
end of every great period or sub-race.3 Ere mankind can
2See pages 90-1. 179-80.
3See TI.. Voic, of iii. Curths Chapter XVII.
Man the Creator. The Awakening 173
enter into a new day the darkness of the past night must be
dissipated. Ere the world can begin a new era, all of evil that
was created in the past era must be wiped out or ground fine
in the Mills of the Gods and its substance made into Good
(experience). And since man has refused to be nourished
by the Blood of the Lamb as the vital life of the Christ,
but has lived in his own physical sphere where the physical
blood is the only idea he has of life-forceand he has even
materialized the grand symbol of the blood of Jesus the
Great Avatar, the Son of Godhe must learn his lesson
through the literal shedding of blood. Hence it is this literal
physical blood that must be poured out to wash away the
sins (or misunderstandings) of the past and prepare for the
new day. 1But it is not the blood of the Son of God, but
the blood of his brother man, for only through such experi-
ence can he learn the mystical interpretation of "Whoso shed-
deth man's blood, by man shall his blood be. shed." Through
this shedding of man's blood, man as a whole is slowly learn-
ing that physical blood is after all but the hf; of the physical
body, and that there is a life-force (blood) which still ani-
mates his inner bodies; that in consciousness he is just as
vitally alive, or even more so, after every drop of the physi...
cal blood has been drained from his body on the battle-field
and the physical body torn to pieces. Moreover, he has learned
that this physical shedding of blood has not washed away the
sins of the world, for sin still exists in the Astral World in
all its hideousness and constantly precipitates itself into the
physical world. Hence, the Blood of the Christ that taketh
away the sins of the world and also washes clean the astral
spheres is the mystical life-force of the Christ, of which each
Soul must indeed partake, and not the physical blood of the
man Jesus.
174
CHAPTER XXV.
The Number 15. THE DEvIL.
"In the circle of its action every word creates that
which it affirms. He who affirms the devil, creates
or makes a devil . . . Let us assert most strongly
. . that as a superior personality and power
Satan does not exist. He is the personification of
all errors, perversities, and, consequently, weak-
nesses."Transcende,,tal Magic, Levi, 308-2.
"For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon
me."Job, III, 25.
By some number 15 is called evil and is dedicated to the
deviL And on the principle so apt to prevail in the world
that the thing we do not understand we both fear and execrate,
this number being no exception to the rule has had to bear
its full share of misrepresentation and ignominy. However,
so many in these days are feeling the stirrings of the coming
awakening that it is scarcely necessary to point out that a
thing becomes to our consciousness just what we call it.
Hence if we call number 15 the devil, at once we must give
the devil or the evil a field of operation, so we make him a
king and give him the world for his kingdom. This kingdom
we call Hell or a place of torment, yet we know very well
that iii has no power to torment those who dwell in the Light
of the Christ, even though this Light be still struggling with
the density of man's ignorance. We know the Light will and
must prevail, just as when we wake, chilled by the night wind
in the darkest hour just before the dawn, we know that the Sun
will rise and dispel the chill and darkness, and that the
shadows which seem so terrifying to us in this dark hour,
the moment the Sun appears will take the shape of familiar
objects, and the wind which moans so dismally now will fill
us with the refreshing rapture of a new day.
The forces personified as the devil are very real forces
at present, though not immortal, for they are man's own
creations. And as long as man is a finite being he has not
The Devil 175
the power of himself to create that which is immortal. He
can only do this through the Christ and the Christ has
nothing to do with the creation of evil or the deviL Man
has created, yes, and still creates, him through the power of
thought and desire. Many men thinking the same thoughts
create corresponding currents of force in the mental world
which if persisted in become entitized into a thought-form
or many thought-forms with the power and characteristics
of the thoughts which have produced them. Hence in exact
proportion to the amount of life-force put into the thoughts
producing such entities, and the creative powers expended upon
them, are they real during the period of their manifestation.
But, as we have said, they cannot be immortal. The Christ-
force must prevail, even as 6 is the ultimate of 15.
A superficial glance over the history of mankind will show
us that the belief in the devil is a very real one, also that
the votive offerings sacrificed to him are the outpourings
of man's most primitive feelings of fear and selfish gain.
And as long as we fear and seek to propitiate him this very
fear is an acknowledgment of his power. In many cases this
sacrifice and worship is offered by sincere so-called followers
of the Christ, for has not the Church for ages taught the
necessity of penance, of prayers, fastings, sacrifices and scourg-
ings of the flesh? Surely not to please a God of Love but
to appease the devil, thus defiling the Temple of the Living
God and making it only a charnel house of disease and death
fit only for the devil to live in. And to the mistaken
scourgings, fastings and flagellations of the Middle Ages can be
traced many present-day neuroses and kindred diseases. By
the horrors perpetrated upon the human body in such prac-
tices, especially during the days of the reign of the so-called
"Holy Inquisition" when even human sacrifices were offered
to this thought of an evil power to be propitiated, 1. e., the
many who died under the torture inflicted for their Soul's
good, and by the inculcated doctrine that the devil was su-
preme, man has not only created him and set him on the
176 The Key of Destiny
throne of the world, but has literally transformed the fleshly
bodies of men made in the image of God into a semblance of
this monster, through the deformities of those who were
broken on the rack and other tortures. Hence, instead of a
pure temple, for the Holy Spirit to dwell in, in many instances
we find the human body today heir to malformations, weak-
nesses and predisposition to disease caused by the mistaken
practices of past lives.
Recognizing as we do today that many diseaseswith the
exceptions of accidents (trauma), external poisonings, et-
ceteraare the result of thought, it is not a wild supposi-
tion to believe that it is this fear-thought of a monstrous
personification of evil, the belief in a personal devil instilled
into the mind of man for ages, coupled with the thought that
every child is born in sin, which has peopled the astral and
psychic worlds with terrible antagonistic and vile forces that
are the cause of many nervous and nearly all psychic diseases,
especially that terrible scourge of mankind, cancer. For just
as the devil and all his followers are a false life or false God,
or the pure life-stream reversed"Satanus est Deus In
versus"so cancer in the human body is the life-force reversed
or working its own will without control or supervision. It is
something evil and monstrous, growing cell by cell, and de-
stroying the Temple of the Living God. Those who are vic-
tims of it, however, are by no means its sole creators, mark
this very plainly, any more than every Soul who succumbs
to a temptation is wholly responsible individually for the
creation of the devil and all his attendant evils. It is a part
of the race karma, yet those who succumb either to loath-
some diseases in the body or the equally loathsome diseases of
the mind do so because they have not been sufficiently filled
with the pure divine life-force of the Christ. They have been
negative and so havø left an open door into which the muddy
stream of evil has poured and polluted the pure strean of the
Christ-life. The belief in or fear of the power of evil is such
an opening.
The Devil 177
Many who are suffering today from the loathsome disease
of cancer, in their last incarnation belie'vd implicitly in
the power of evil and gave much of their thought to the
appeasing or propitiation of the devil. Or in cases in which
the cancer seems to have been inherited, the family in which
the Soul has incarnated has for generations handed down a
strong belief in the inevitability of cancer being inherited. The
Church has made the devil a necessary part of its doctrine, for
although in the Articles of Religion of some denominations they
do not specially affirm the devil, yet they teach it by inference.
For instance, in Article 17 of Predestination and Election we
read "whereby the Devil doth thrust them either into despera-
tion or unto wretchiessness of most unclean living, no less
peri-ous than desperation." Through the Church's postulate of
original sin the devil is given greater power than the Christ in
that he is given the power to blast every Soul born into physical
life, while the Christ can redeem only those who seek saliva-
tion, and that with difficulty. That which is original comes
first, hence from this postulate we might deduce that the
devil was the original king of the world, instead of but the
despoiler of Christ's Kingdom, although we are distinctly told
in the Bible that "Thy ldngdom is an everlasting kingdom,
and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations," and
the Articles of Religion tell us (Article 20): "And yet it is
noi lawful for the Church to ordain anything that is contrary
to God's word written, neither may it so expound one piece
of Scripture that it be repugnant to another." Yet even to-
day the devotee who fails to bow in abject submission to the
belief in the devil's baneful rule or who dares to assert in
Church circles that there is no devil outside of man's per-
verted creations, is looked upon askance. Since all this is
vital belief carrying life and energy and much creative thought-
force, in fact, when we consider the voluminous trtatises of
the early Church on the Devil,1 it is no wonder that we are
suffering from its effects in body, mind and estate. And we
1 Sec IItzS.,y of tke Devil, Carus.
178 The Key of Destiny
will thus suffer until we as persistently create its opposite.
Eliphas Levi tells us "In a word the devil is for us, even as
mortal sin is, to our thinking, thc persistence of the will in
what is absurd."
Can we then hesitate to say that man's thought has created
a devil and made him very real and given him power over the
earth? The devil is the synthetic embodiment of all man's
ideas of a personal devil, as well as the dark shadows of all
man's perverse and degrading beliefs and practices in connec-
tion with the physical expression of the life-force. And this
devil, or to put it more correctly, this entitized evil, is the
Adversary or that which fights against all efforts or attempts
either to change the current of thought which feeds him or
to withdraw the life-force on which he lives.
We cannot impress too strongly this fact upon our readers;
for all those devout Souls who believe in the devil are striving
continually to propitiate him or are bowing down to worship
him by admitting his power, even though they do so in a
negative way, and are thus helping to keep him in power.
There are thousands today who think their faces are turned
toward the Light of the Christ and who earnestly desire to
walk in that Light, who are nevertheless pouring out daily
libations of thought-force and worship to this monster. But
his power is limited by the amount of belief and vital thought
given him. Like all thought-forms, he will gradually fade
into nothingness when this force is withdrawn.
The Bible tells us to "resist not evil" but to overcome evil
with good. This is wise philosophy, for the devil, being
but man's creation, we naturally give to him much thought
of a very vital character. To overcome him with good we
must recognize that the thing we dwell on in thought we
give power over us. Hence, we must fill our minds with
thoughts of Good as a positive force that it may drive out
the phantom of evil. In other words, when man turns around
and faces the pure white Light of the Christthis being the
one immortal realityit will just as surely drive out and
The Devil 179
overcome the black shadow of man's imagining as will the
risen Sun dispel the darkness of night.
As the world is today, we might compare evfl to a great
corporation whose chief asset is the devil and all his works.
Every one in the corporation will receive his share of the
assets in exact ratio to that which he has put into it or the
stock he holds in it. Hence, if we refuse to take stock or
pay premiums in the corporation, we do not receive dividends.
So why waste time fighting or resisting it? We should use
our powers to make the idea unpopular. To do this we
must spread the idea of Light and freedom, hold up the ban-
ner of the Christ, and through concentrated thought add to
the power of the Light. While we cannot help but recog-
nize the presence of evil in the worldelse why any effort
to reform?.-we should avoid talking of or dwelling upon it
in thought, but should create its opposite every time it is
presented to our consciousness and thus hasten the dawning
of the new day.
Number 15 is above all other numbers the one which either
makes or destroys the devil and all his works, among which
is black magic. Magic is that which is produced by invisible
means or by thought-power and concentrated Will. Hence,
if the devil is the entitized force of man's evil thinking and
willing, black magic might well be described as the almost
unbelievable lengths to which man, while professing to be a
Christian, can still carry hatred, cruelty, persecution and un-
brotherliness toward his fellow men. And this monster thrives
on autocracy in religious matters as well as on war, famine
and pestilence, lust, greed and avarice. All these things are
facing the world today as the Race is passing the period com-
parable to 15. And it is only the completion of this number
in 6, i. e., 15=1+5=6, or the rising of the Sun of Righteous-
ness, that can awaken man to see things in their true light.
Today the world stands aghast at the blackness and chill of
the long night and asks with blanched lips: "Is this the darkest
hour before the dawn?" Who shall say? The world is now
180 The Key of Destiny
turning longing eyes toward the East and by the very suffer-
ing and horror resulting from the negative expression of 15
is expecting to see the Sun of a new day arise, and the Christ
of number 6 rejuvenate and recreate the world. Repentance
means turning round and facing the other way, and 15 is
such a turning point in the life of individuals and the Race.
Let us pray that the dawn shall break crc these lines are read.
When Belshazzar, the King of Babylon (confusion), was
at the height of his insolence, debauchery and vileness in the
midst of his festivities, his enemies, the Medes and Persians
led by Cyrus, took from him the city by turning the waters
of the river Euphrates into a new channel, thus leaving a
passageway under the gates of the city. When the city of
Babylon was built, the river Euphrates was deflected to the
left from its original channel so that the river would flow
through the city and supply it with water. It was so ar-
ranged that the entire river flowed under the principal gate
of the city so that when the gate was shut down, the river
fonned an important factor in the defense of the city. When
Cyrus took the city, he restored the river to its original chan-
nel and marched his army under the gate where the river
once flowed. The meaning of the name Cyrus is "The Sun,"
thus symbolizing that it is the Sun of Righteousness alone
which can capture the City of Confusion by turning its river
(life-stream) into its original and normal channel
The Bible story of Belshazzar and his feast does not agree
with the facts of historjas it was designed to teach a
mystical truthbut it is an excellent symbolic story of how
we can conquer the devil and take his kingdom from him
even at the height of his power and feasting, namely, by
digging a new channel for the rivers of thought-force to
flow through that they shall no longer flow into the City of
Confusion and water it with festive life, but shall leave it
dry and at the mercy of the Conqueror. The thing to do is
to mobilize a great army of our thoughts and set this army to
work to patiently dig a new channel that the river of the
The Devil 181
world's thought may no longer flow into the City of Con-
fusion, but shall water the land as originally intended and
bring forth love, purity and unselfishness for all mankind.
So shall the King of this World (the Devil) be destroyed
and his kingdom be taken from him. For' "it is not by might
nor by force, but by my Spirit saith the Lord." Hence, the
true meaning or power of 15 is the power to Dare and Do.
Again, number 15 is the number *hich gives man the
power to use his senses in the Astral World, much in the
same way as he has entered the Mental World in number
14 by the control of thought. Here again he can either create
or destroy the devil, according as he uses the experiences
there found to further his personal ends or learns their les-
sons and uses them to help humanity. Here, too, must he
dig a new channel for the river of astral force that it may
no longer water the land of delusion and desire, 1. e., he must
withdraw the life-force from all deluding and misleading
thought-forms that are emissaries of the devil to deceive and
mislead the seeker after Truth.
According to Apollonius, 15 is the sixth hour of Initiation,
and he calls it "Typhon" (the electric whirlwind). "Here
one must remain quiet, immovable through fear." While
we do not altogether endorse this precept, yet we understand
what it refers to, for at this step the Neophyte has reached
and is facing a most formidable test. It is here that he
must meet the dread Dweller on the Threshold so graphically
described by Buiwer Lytton in his novel Zanoni. This dweller
is an entity built up by the synthesis of all our faults and
failings, hence because it is the evil ii ourselves it is horrible
to the last degree and most difficult to face, recognize as
our own and conquer. It also inspires a feeling of terror
and almost hopelessness, for in its evil eyes we see the things
in ourselves we have refused to admit heretofore, the crea-
tures of our outer darkness. We meet a lesser expression of
the Dweller at every minor step in a particular manifestation
of the especial thing we must conquer at that step. But when
182 The Key of Destiny
the Neophyte reaches this sixth hour (the Christ-hour made
up of 1+5) he must once for all face his lower self and
must recognize all its hideousness. It now stands revealed
and ready to fight for continued life. Nd longer is it but one
fault that is shown to him, but every hidden vileness; that
which he never suspected, yet which at that moment he can
no longer say is not his own lower self. Well might he stand
immovable with fear, for because it is his own creation he
alone and unassisted must face and conquer it. If he hesi-
tates he is lost, for even as he watches it it grows, until what
at first appeared but a hideous dwarf now becomes a menac-
ing giant. Although he is seemingly so unprotected, yet
he has the power of the Guardian of the Threshold, the syn-
thesis of his higher thoughts and better nature, which although
unseen stands close beside him. This is the threshold of a
new day of at-one-ment; the day when he leaves behind for-
ever the old life interests and enters into a life of interests
engendered by his awakened powers.
The world today is facing the monstrous Dweller on the
Threshold of its sixth hour. The great world war with its
attendant horrors was a manifestation of this Dweller. And
only as we unite our forces, not in anger and hate, but in love
for truth, justice and humanity, to strangle this terrible thing,
knowing full well that no matter how hideous its mien, it is
our ownbelonging not to any one nation alone, but to the
Racewill we have the power to conquer. We each individu-
ally through all the ages of the old day just past have poured
into it our thoughts of cruelty, unbrotherliness, greed and
avarice which have coalesced into the thing we now face. The
one who is its earthly leader is but one who has opened his
mind and heart to the world's evil thought-forces and has
dared to express them.2 Therefore since all are responsible
all must help to overcome this Dweller that a victorious and
purified humanity may cross the Threshold and enter into
the new day now dawning.
2 See The Philosophy of War, Curtiss.
CHAPTER XXVI.
The Order of the r5.
"The Fifteenth Path is the Constituting Intelli-
gence, so called because it constitutes the substance
of creation in pure darkness, and men have spoken
of these contemplations; it is that darkness spoken
of in Scripture, 'and thick darkness a swaddling band
for it.' "Sepher Yetzirah, 30.
"Where is the way where light dwelleth? and as
for the darkness, where is the place thereof ?"Job,
XXXVIII, 19.
The Order of Christian Mystics was originaily put forth
under the name of The Order of the 15, this being its cosmic
and numerical designation. But this name caused so much
misunderstanding that it was considered better to use the
name of the philosophy which it teaches. Hence the name
now used is The Order of Christian Mystics, although The
Order of the 15 is still retained as a sub-title. When the Order
was first put forth in this cycle it was planned primarily to
meet the demands of advanced students only who, having
been associated with it in past lives, knew something of its
symbology, hence could appreciate the deep significance of
its numerical designation at this period of the world's ad-
vance. But with the rapid expansion of the work the field
of its appeal has steadily grown and widened until now while
it still amply satisfies the same class of advanced occult stu-
dents, yet there are many less advanced who need its help.
The monthly lessons sent out by the Order are in some
ways so plain that "He who runs may read," yet they also
contain so much deep underlying and occult lore that the most
advanced students! find much that is new and much that while
very old, old as humanity itself and familiar in principle to
all occult students, is nevertheless put in a new light, i. e., the
light of the new day. For that which is based upon Eternal
Truth is fitted for all time and can therefore be studied from
183
184 The Key of Destiny
all angles, each angle presenting a perfect picture. Thus every
age can find its needs supplied, for every phase of thought
in any age can clothe these Eternal Verities in its own dress
so that they will appeal to the mind of that Race or, that age.
Therefore this Order as put forth in this present age brings
nothing new in principle, but proves, by its ability to present
world-old truths in language understandable in this present
agebecause recognizing all the scientific advancesthat
these truths are indeed like nature, ever new, yet ever old;
ever renewed so that each age finds in their beauty, in the per-
fume of their blossoms, in their fruits, and in their exhaust-
less supply, a new wonderment, as if made for that day and
generation fresh from the hand of God.
Hence the Order today is reaching out among those who
are loosely classed as orthodox Christians, yet who are eagerly
seeking for a greater understanding of Spiritual Truth and a
more Soul-satisfying interpretation of the Scriptures than the
Church affords. It also appeals to the many who have former-
ly been satisfied with the so-called "advanced teachings" of
modern origin, but who now require a more comprehensive
and all-inclusive philosophy than they have found elsewhere.
To these ever-increasing classes the numerical name of ihe
Order means nothing; in fact, instead of appealing to them
and leading them to inquire into its teachings, it often turns
them from it, hence the name of its philosophy is used instead.
In the face of the undoubted power of numbers, let us say
that all students who have carefully read and digested the
meaning of number 15 will have no difficulty in understanding
why an Order bearing the numerical title Order of the 15
should have been put forth when it was. In fact, had not the
Masters of Wisdom made an effort to give to humanity some
special form of teaching by which it could understand the
shadows and forms, which during this awakening to the dawn
of a new day are pressing so heavily upon the world, humanity
would be left like frightened children who waking in the chill
dark which precedes the coming of day, cry out for some
The Order of the 15 185
wiser head to explain the terrifying conditions of the dark-
ness, and show that the shadows are not monsters lurking in
the darkness to devour them, but only natural phenomena
misunderstood.
The Elder Brothers of the Racewho themselves have
passed through many similar nights and watched the dawn-
ing of many similar dayshave therefore in love and com-
passion sent to the world at this period these special teach-
ings, which are not new or startling, but which go back to
fundamental principles for an explanation of present day con-
ditions, thus relighting a torch of Truth that the ignorance
of this age shall be less dense and the struggle for enlighten-
ment shall be less discouraging than in their age.
This Order was established at a time when the world was
crying out for help. So many were beginning to feel in their
lives the overlapping of the three worlds; were having dreams
and visions and psychic experiences as a result of their five
senses beginning to unfold and respond to the octave of vibra-
tions of the higher worlds. Even in the midst of the gaiety and
confusion of Babylon, many had seen the five fingers of a man's
handwriting on the wall of the world's banquet hail strange
characters which neither the astrologers, the soothsayers nor
wise men were able to interpret Hence, this Order came like
a "Daniel come to Judgment" to read the many riddles; to
show the world that the pound of flesh demanded by it cannot
be given if its giving shall shed one drop of spiritual life blood.
While to the earlier Races the realms of consciousness might
seem to be distinct globes,2 yet as evolution progresses and the
life-wave sweeps upward from its lowest point, the realization
grows in humanity that these realms interpenetrate and have
their reactions each upon the other. Hence, unless there is
some special teaching given out to meet these conditions and
explain all the phenomena pressing upon the attention of the
worId, humanity would be lost in the manifold illusion of the
2Fot explanation see The Voic, of isis. Curtieg. 207.
186 The Key of Destiny
astral world or wander hopelessly in the labyrinth of mental
speculation and fail utterly to see that through all realms the
Great Ones have blazed a Path and have left a guiding thread
which will lead safely through the maze. Without a clear
and rational explanation man would also be at the mercy of
the outpouring of all his evil creations in the three worlds and
be crushed by the seeming hopelessness of it all and, like Job,
would be tempted to "curse God and die." This Order there-
fore presents a logical, reasonable, scientific and Soul-satis-
fying philosophy which is able to point out both the why and
the wherefore of all the changing conditions of the times. And
becauso it can do this it is able also to show the way out and
conclusively prove to humanity that the very darkness of the
times is a proof that the dawn is at hand. Its mission is to
dear away the mental rubbish which the ancient world has
accumulated that the fountain of Living Water (the Christ)
may spring into everlasting life.
The slogan of this Order is "Know, Dare, Do, Keep Silent";
the word "Know" being implied by the open eye in the
center, while the other words occupy the three sides of the
triangle in the symbol.3 Every Neophyte who sets out upon
the Path of Attainment does so because he has mentally seen
the Open Eye and from his inner divine intuition knows it
holds a message for him. He must have developed within
him a strong consciousness that there is something worth
the seeking, hence has aroused the daring spirit necessary to
leave the old "primrose path of dalliance" and seek new and
unknown regions. It not only takes a firm conviction of the
truth of that which he would seek, but it takes far more; it
takes courage, determination and perseverance. So many be-
lieve and long to attain, yet spend incarnation after incarna-
tion bemoaning the fate that has given them a heart with which
to long and a mind with which to aspire, yet has surrounded
them with so many seemingly insurmountable obstacles which
ThiIt. chpt.r XXXIV.
The Order of the 15 187
they call impossibilities. So year after year, and life after life,
the longing grows fainter and the obstacles more substantial,
until through the stern whippings of karma, the Soul is left
naked to do or die, like a boy who is thrown overboard to
swim or sink. This is well expressed in the couplet, "He who
hesitates is lost."
Therefore to Dare is the first step into this Cosmic Order,
and many take it almost automatically, having attained to it
in past lives. The next step is to Do. At this step many
linger, for the great temptation is to dream, rather than to do.
But the Do here indicated must be of a very definite character;
it must begin with his own life, in overcoming his faults and
failings. The Neophyte can never say: "I have accomplished,"
no matter what work he has done for humanity, until at least
to some extent he has accomplished this first overcoming and
it begins to show in his life. But we must be lenient in our
judgment for, like a floating iceberg seven-eighths of which is
always submerged below the water, so with the Neophyte.
Vhile his efforts must affect his life, yet the foundation must
be below the surface of consciousness. Only such overcoming
as has built for itself a strong foundation below the surface
will endure the storms and dashings of the waves of life.
Therefore, do not grow discouraged, for if even the tip appears
above the water know there is seven-eighths below the sur-
face. And even before its tip is in sight, the submerged seven-
eighths will do much to hold back the waves.
The hardest lesson of all is to learn to Keep Silent. The
esoteric meaning of Keep Silent is not merely to refrain from
talking, although it does mean that we should refrain from
frivolous chatter, from gossip and criticism. Its chief mean-
ing is that we should keep in touch with the Silence, in the
consciousness of that deep mysterious Silence which makes
all our thoughts, works and deeds potent. It als6 means that
we are not merely to dream of past accomplishments, but are
to realize intensely what we have accomplished, and from the
past seek to understand the mighty unseen forces which work
188 The Key of Destiny
only in the Silence, without which we never could have accom-
plished. Hence we must waste none of this precious force in
mere talk or dreaming, for this is a prolific waste of force.
Ve must obey the mandate of the Christ within who tells us
"Let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for what-
soever is more than these cometh of evil." This means not to
waste words; not to try to impress on others our degree of
advance by telling them of our experiences, or by boasting of
our victories or speaking of the qualities we think we have
builded into our characters. For if all these things are true the
world must see them, and to claim them, even if we are very
sure that seven-eighths of them are already built beneath our
consciousness, will but draw antagonism and dislike upon us
and perhaps the very foundation we have so laboriously built
below the surface will be destroyed by the heat of the antag-
onism thus engendered.
If one word is forceful enough to express our meaning, do
not use more. Also let all our conversation be as simple and to
the point as yea, yea, nay, nay. Above all, always listen in the
Eternal Silence for inspiration which will direct our every
word, so that n word we utter "cometh of evil" Vain chat-
tering, either out loud or mentally in talking to ourselves, will
and must disturb the Great Silence so that we cannot be
guided by it. "Be still and know that I am God."
Many persons think they are talking through inspiration
because the words they utter seem to be put into their mouths
without their own volition, but if we dwell in the Silent Court
of the Temple of the Living God we will learn to distinguish
between true inspiration, which is the inbreathing of the
Divine Spirit, and the parrot-like chatter of astral friends or
others who know little more than we, or the thought-force of
the community, or that of some stronger, more positive friend.
In such cases the words we utter "come of evil" No matter
how good the words, if the method is evil, it "cometh of evil"
True inspiration comes from the Divine Indwelling Christ
and is the inbrcathing of the Holy Spirit, thus making us one
The Ord,er of the 15 189
with the Father. Then, like Jesus, we can say, The words
that I speak unto you I speak not of myself; but the Father
that dwelleth in me."4 Never try to justify or defend or
explain by much argument. Speak the truth to the best of your
ability, then rest in the assurance that you have done your best
and that time and events will justify you. This is the inner
meaning of Keeping Silent or dwelling in the Eternal Silence.
4St. Jokis. XIV. 10.
CHAPTER XXVII.
A Symposium of The Order of the 15.*
"Behold, I bring unto you good tidings of great
joy.,,
For convenience in reference we will here gather together
what we have said about the Order in our various other works.
"To all earnest seekers after the spiritual life whose sincere
desire is to progress in spiritual growth and unfoldment, and
who wish the opportunity of coming into closer personal touch
with those Masters of Wisdom who, through all ages, have
been the Teachers, Guides and Elder Brothers of humanity,
there comes the following message:
"In accordance with the geometrical design of the universe,
a point in evolution has now been reached when an advanced
Order has been established upon- the earth plane. This Order
is not an organization in the general acceptance of the term,
nor is it connected with either the outer or inner work of any
other occult organization now in existence on the physical
plane.
"The Order of Christian Mystics is but one name for a great
Cosmic Order which has always existed and through which all
Souls who have reached Mastery have passed on some plane, at
a certain stage of their evolution. It has been represented upon
the earth-plane at certain cyclic intervals in all ages, and has
been known under various names. Its manifestation upon the
earth-plane during the present cycle began on January 1st,
1908, its numerical name, The Order of the 15, being
then used. But now that the Order is reaching that great
class who are looked upon as orthodox Christians, yet who
are eagerly seeking more definite instruction concerning the
mysteries of the spiritual life, the name of the philosophy
which the Order presents is used instead.
"The Order of Christian Mystics is a non-sectarian, unifying
spiritual movement, inspired by an unselfish love for humanity
Prom the first circular sent out in 1908 to announce the Order.
A Symposium of The Order of the 15 191
and a desire to help mankind recognize the reality, and make
practical use of, its spiritual guidance in the daily life.
"It is Christian in that it seeks the universal Cosmic Christ
Principle, no matter by what name that Universal Principle is
known in other lands; and in that it bases its teachings on the
Christian rather than on Oriental scriptures. It is Mystic in
that it teaches its pupils the mystery of how to come into
personal and conscious touch with the Christ-consciousness
within.
"It is not put forth to form a new sect or cult to further
divide up and separate humanity, or to form another pigeon-
hole in which to isolate a few followers; nor does it seek to
secure a following for any human leader or personality. It is
a spiritual movement, without creed, dogma, rules or pledges.
Instead of emphasizing the differences between its teachings
and all others, it strives to establish a platform so universal
that its pupils can find in ii some one thing to which they can
agree, even though that one thing be not the same for all.
Thus will this Order become a link to join the best efforts of
all into one great universal movement which shall spread
Brotherhood upon the earth through spiritual understanding.
True Brotherhood does not mean that all must think alike,
but that each recognize Truth wherever found and demon-
.strafe love and tolerance toward those who find a different
aspect of Truth more helpful.
"This Order does not ask its pupils to leave any church,
society or organization to which they feel attracted, unless
they find in this Order their true spiritual home and desire
to work exclusively with it. It but seeks to help all to under-
stand the workings of the great fundamental Laws of Life,
and thus enable them to do their own work the better, in their
own way and place. It asks no one to subordinate his in-
dividuality or to follow any leader, but leaves all free to follow
the Truth as revealed to them. It does not require that any
of its teachings be accepted by its students because some
authority says they are true, for unless a teaching appeals to
192 The Key of Destiny
the heart and rings true to a Soul it is not true to the con-
sciousness of that Soul. Hence, no authority is enforced,
except the authority of that Voice within each heart which
recognizes and witnesses to Truth wherever found.
"Understand this point clearly: It will be only through your
own individual effort, your attitude of Soul and the character
of your subsequent life that will enable you to place yourself
in personal, conscious touch with the Masters of Wisdom.
It depends upon no personality but your own.
"All organizations and movements which receive help from
the spiritual-plane have their own particular work to do.
Whether they have succeeded in the task set before them, or
whether they have failed, is dearly shown by their results,
and the same rule must be applied to the work of this Order.
But many students have outgrown organizations, having found
them too narrow and their necessary limitations too binding.
Hence, in this Order an avenue of instruction and help has
been put forth that 1s not an organization and which i not
limited in its activities.
"This movement is not an organization, because it has no
constitution or by-laws, no officers (only the Founders),
requires no pledges and no dues, and does not restrict a stu-
dent's activity in any society or organization. Therefore it is
not antagonistic to, or a rival of, any existing organization
that is helping humanity, but permits perfect freedom. It holds
out the hand of Brotherhood to each and gives to all an op.
portunity to prove the ideals of Brotherhood and tolerance
which they profess.
"We can but reiterate that while The Order of Christian
Mystics stands alone, nevertheless it stands for Truth
wherever found, its motto being, "By their fruits ye shall
know them."
"Under no circumstances does it criticize any. If an organ-
ization, society or movement has helped one Soul to take one
step upon the Path to Mastery, it has not wroughif in vain.
"Whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little
A Symposium of The Order of the 15 193
ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily
I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward I . . . Inas-
much as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my
brethren ye have done it unto me."
"The fact that a teaching attracts and helps you is evidence
that it contains the lessons needed by you for the step you are
taking. The fact that a movement no longer appeals to you,
not matter how helpful it may be to others, is evidence either
that your Soul has learned the lessons that movement had
for youeven though not mastered intellectuallythat it is
not your true spiritual home or that the movement, no matter
how beautifully conceived and launched, has become tainted
with something that is1 not helpful, or is perhaps distinctly in-
jurious to your physical, mental, moral or spiritual growth.
Hence, to remain connected with an organization to which
you no longer feel drawn or which you have outgrown, is as
detrimental to your Soul-growth as it would be for a flower to
remain in a pot which bad become too small for it or whose
soil had become exhausted.
"Each movement that aims to help humanity has its own
place and its own work. Colored blocks are necessary in
the kindergarten, primers for children, text-books for the
training of the mind in school and college. But when the mind
has been trained it must then put that training to use in a
practical way; in business, under the head of the firm or man-
ager; in art, under a great teacher; in spirilual things, under a
Master of Wisdom. But remember that, because you are no
longer interested in the colored blocks or primers you once
thought so beautiful, you are not to despise the children who
still cling to them, or find fault with the teachers of the a-b-c's.
All have their place, and the children will grow away from the
blocks when they have learned their lesson, just as you have
grown. The proof that you have outgrown earthly organizations
will be the love and tolerance with which you treat all your
brothers and sisters who still feel the need of such methods. To
rail at organizations, and those who work in them, especially
194 The Key of Destiny
one which has helped you to reach your present state, is proof
that you still need theif discipline. Every uplifting movement
or teaching has its place and has for followers those who need
its lessons.
"One of the chief objects of this Movement is to correlate
advanced philosophical teachings with the orthodox Christian
teachings; to form a neutral ground where both can meet and
recognize Truth, and to reach the great mass of people who
will not join organizations or occult societies of any kind.
On this account we may disappoint many intellectual students,
for our language will purposely be made simple, and the great
truths which we set forth will be so stated as to appeal to
minds schooled in Western religious thought. Our great ob-
ject is to enable all sections of spiritual seekersNew
Thought, Spiritualism, Theosophy, Christianity; in fact, all
lovers of Truthto draw together at the heart-center. TIzLc is
o necessary preparation for the near advent of the great Spirit-
ual Teacher for the Western world who is soon to appear, The
Avatar. The good news of His quick coming must be given
'unto all people,' not merely to a few intellectual thinkers or
occultists. All schools of spiritual thought need this prepara-
tion.
"While the teachings of this Order are those of the Wisdom
Religion, they are not theosophic or rosicrucian in the sense
of being put forth by any of the numerous societies bearing
those names, for they deal with the Christian Bible quite as
much as with Oriental or medieval teachings.
"There is a real necessity for the various presentations of
Truth as given to the world; for just as the dimate, flora and
fauna of a country, and the language and customs of its pee.
pIe, vary in different parts of the world, so must Truth garb
itself in habiliments suited to the modes of thought of the
people to whom it is given. There comes a time, how-.
ever, in all organized bodies giving out spiritual teachings
when some students will advance as far or farther than the
leaders of the organization. And since it is only natural for
A Symposium of The Order of the 15 195
such leaders to assume that they are more advanced than any
of their students, inharmony and dissatisfaction, or even seces-
sion, result. In the development of all students a point is
reached where they need the advanced, personal instruction,
not of any leaderswho are themselves but studentsbut of
One who has at his command all knowledge and all wisdom-
i. e.. a Master of Wisdom.' It is in answer to his personal need
that The Lodge of Masters has put forth The Order of Chris-
tian Mystics at this time. It comes as a direct response to
the prayers of many, many hearts for more light, love, sym-
pathy and personal guidance.
'As this continent may become the home of a new Race
which will ultimately perfect itself by the survival and inter-
blending of the fittest of all the races now existing, so must
its religious thought be blended and purified that it may emerge
as a pure ray which has gathered into itself the force from
all its sub-rays.
"The Order of Christian Mystics is put forth in an effort
to awaken The Christ-love in the hearts of men, rather than to
cater to the intellect or the desire for psychic powers; for only
those who can correlate with The Christ-power can be gathered
together to form a nucleus in which this Power can be in-
dividualized on earth. The aim of this Movement is especially
to help all Christian people to find the deep, underlying, vital
truths common to all religions in their own, and thus truly,
and in the only way possible, prepare for an Universal Broth-
erhood on earth in which each Soul shall find the same vital
truths spoken in his own language,2 i. e., couched and taught
in terms of the religion in which he was born.
"SPECIAL OBJECTS OF THE ORDER.
"1. Complete individuality through union with the Higher
Self.
ift is understood, of course, that the Founders do not answer the letter.
nor compose the teachings, although their consciousness had to be especially trained
to reach up, grasp and correctly interpret and express the wisdom to be transmitted.
They are merely the transmitters in the ordinary sense of the word, and do not
pretend to be the Teachers of the Order.
2See Acts II. &
196 The Key of Destiny
"The ideal of this Order is one of constant self-mastery,
in obedience to the personal guidance from within and
prompted by the ability to help humanity to a greater realiza-
tion of the Christ-consicousness. This is the acme of individ-
ualismMasteryfor the Soul and the acme of oneness for
the Race. Necessarily the fundamental assumption is the possi-
bility of each Soul coming into conscious touch with his
Father-in-Heaven.
Personal training in the philosophy of life.
"The personal training is carried on partly on the inner
planes and partly by correspondence with the Teacher of the
Order through the Founders. Such correspondence is open
to all who need personal help with the problems of their Soul-
life. For adequate reply, the letters should contain not more
than three questions. The answers will contain dear ex-
planations of the laws of life which apply to the individual
needs of the pupil. Such correspondence is sacredly con-
fidential.
A higher standard of purity on all planes.
"Ere the pupil can attain to the higher stages of spiritual
consciousness he must learn to control his thoughts as well as
his words and acts. The highest ideals as to the sacredness
and purity of the marriage relation and the creative forces are
inculcated.
Esoteric interpretation of the Bible.
"The special object of these teachings is to bring to the
attention of the world, as simply as possible, the Pearls of Wis-
don; in the teachings of the Master Jesuspearls that have
been overlaid with wordy misconceptions and dogmas so long
as to be almost unrecognizable.
"Although the Christian Bible is the greatest occult book
ever given to humanityfor it contains not only the wisdom
of all prior scriptures, but also a prophecy of the futureyet
it is the least understood of any scripture, because heretofore
all efforts to explain it have been upon a literal, intellectual,
A Symposium of Tue Order of the 15 197
material or historical basis and not from the standpoint of its
spiritual .cymbology and esoteric meaning.
"This Ordei gives its students the esoteric key which en-
ables them to apply the underlying laws of every parable,
allegory and mirade to their own spiritual growth.
Training the senses to respond to vibrations from all
planes.
"The great psychic awakening now sweeping the world has
brought many students to the point where their inner faculties
are unfolding. This is a point of great danger, for here the
two pathsthe Right Hand and the Left Handdiverge.
"This Order offers no formulas or general exercises for
developing psychic powers, but teaches that all such faculties
should evolve gradually as a natural result of normal spiritual
growth. To seek them in the séance room or to force them
through special forms of concentration or negative 'sitting
for development,' etc., is abnormal. But, as the Soul evolves,
the senses must respond to higher rates of vibration and
awaken to higher states of consciousness. When this occurs
the pupil must be taught both how to protect himself from
the many dangers of the psychic realm3 and also how to make
the best use of the newly acquired powers in furthering his
spiritual growth; for psychic powers in themselves are not an
evidence of spirituality, merely evidence that the student is
opening his five senses to the ethereal or astral world, and
all depends upon the use he makes of the powers attained.
This is a personal work which could not be aomplished by
any organization bound by set rules.
Preparation for the Coming Teacher, The Avatar.
"Like nearly all advanced thinkers and movements along
spiritual lines this Order expects a great spiritual Teacher to
appear on earth during the early years of this century. The
prophecy, 'Many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ;
and shall deceive many,' is being literally fulfilled to-day.
This Order fully explains the true mysticism and fundamental
$ See Realms of th. Liviag Dead. Curtis,.
198 The Key of Destiny
laws of the Coming that the Elect may not be deceved4 For
just as lightning flashes from heaven as the result of the gath-
ering on earth of certain forces which induce its descent, so
must the Coming be the result of the gathering together of the
forces of love, tolerance and brotherhood which shall induce
its physical manifestation. Hence one of the great objects of
this Order is so to train its pupils that, through their own
intuitions, they may learn to recognize and respond to the in-
fluence of that Great Teacher upon the higher planes and not
be led astray by personality. For one who requires to be told
by another, 'Lo! here, Lo! there,' cannot recognize the Inani-
festation when it takes place.
"7. Special training in recognizing the oneness Truth
wherever found.
"Since the human race reflects Truth, as a diamond reflects
light, through many facets, Universal Brotherhood can never
be achieved by all men thinking alike. Our idea of Brother-
hood is universal recognition of the oneness of Truth in its
various expressions or unity in diversity, thereby manifesting
perfect tolerance toward all.
'This is fully cxplained in The .we of Ins. Curtiss, Chapter X, also in The
Dlesuze .1 Jqwi.. Curtu. Chapter XXXVIII.
CHAPTER OCWII.
A Symposium of The Order of the i5 (con finued)
"All we can say is that it is a direct outpouring of The
Lodge-force, and the agents through whom it is manifesting
are of no more importance, from the standpoint of the teach-
ings, than would be the pipe through which a stream of pure
water was led into a parched and thirsty land. Those who are
athirst for the living waters will drink; those who are satisfied
with that which is at their disposal will pass it by. Only the
thirsty appreciate water.
"If a history of the personalities were set forth, with photo-
graphs, names, et cetera, of what avail would it be? Would
it make the message any more satisfying? Would it make the
truth any more true? Or would it, as has always happened
heretofore, tend to detract from the teachings? Those who
had a personal leaning toward the agents would cling to their
personalities, excusing every eccentricity and perhaps follow-
ing some personal bias or weakness, and would waste many
words and much force in defending such personalities. Such
an attitude has heretofore put many temptations in the path
of agents, and has even made theni unfit instruments for The
Lodge to use. On the other hand, all who did not altogether
admire the personalities of the agent would have a target at
which to throw stones. To them all the teachings would be
tainted by the personalities of the agent. This, and much
more has been the sad experience of all past attempts to give
out The Lodge teachings. The Karma ignorantly incurred
in the past by the treatment of former agents of The Lodge
is to be spared humanity this time if possible. As each indi-
vidual grows into touch with this work on the Soul-plane and
displays a right appreciation of the sacrifice made by such
agents, and ability to judge the matter impartially and apart
from personality, he will learn to know the Agents from the
inner rather than from the outer standpoint.
200 The Key of Destiny
"You are quite right in thinldng that the teachings are them-
selves their own authority, for if they did not indicate their
source no amount of specious claiming on the part of the
agents would avail. 'If this work be of men, it will come to
naught; but if it be of God, ye can not overthrow it; lest
haply ye be found even to fight against God.'
"At present we can only say that this Movement is a modern
prophet without the walls of the city, crying: 'Prepare ye the
way of the Lord, make His paths straight.' It is a modern
'Voice of one crying in the wilderness, Repent ye; for the
kingdom of heaven is at band.' If that voice finds an echo
in your heart follow it; if not, go your way in peace, for
your time is not yet come.
"Many sincere Theosophists have questioned our Move-
ment by asking why, since it comes direct from The Lodge,
it is not given out through the already established channels.
We do not desire to have it understood that the formation
of this new channel is a reflection upon or a criticism of such
organizations; for they all have their particular work. The
work of this Order, however, is something quite different,
1. e., the interpretation of the teachings of the Master Jesus and
the giving of the help required by each Soul after it has
reached a certain point of development where the teachings
given out to the mass of students as a whole no longer meet
its needs. This cannot be done by organizations that arc
bound by general rules; for their fundamental principle is that
all must fare alike and take such general instructions as can
be given without regard to the needs of individual pupils. If
you will carefully study the chapter on Degrees and Orders'
you will understand why such laws and rules are necessary for
such organizations, and from their standpoint, are right and
proper. They must follow their instructions from The Lodge;
for those are laws given to all organizations working on the
negative side of the cross. Hence they must follow the nega-
'Sec 7k. Voice of isis. Curtis,. Cbavter IlL
A Symposium of The Order of the 15 201
tive law, i. e., advance can only be made collectively and all
must fare alike as to instructions. The Order of the i, how-
ever, as you will see from that chapter, is on the positive side
of the cross and is put forth to aid those who need personal
instruction; those who have reached a point where they can
come into personal touch with the Masters of Wisdom in-
teriorly, yet who need instruction and direction in forming
such contact. We do not aim to supplant any established
movements but should supplement their work in greatest har-
mony; for we build upon the same Rock of Truth where there
is room for all. This is the Law; only he who asks can re-
ceive, because the asking opens the doors through which the
help can come.
"Every Soul has implanted within it, as an integral prin-
ciple, the power of intuition, just as every mineral, vegetable
and animal has the power of selection or instinct which leads
it to follow the lines of evolution best fitted for its growth
and perfection in accord with its environment. This beneficent
provision was not denied manthe highest point reached, so
far, in the scale of evolutionindeed, it was given him in
far greater abundance than to the lower kingdoms. With it
was given the power of reason and free-will, that he might, if
he would, know or he might, if he would, doubt and go astray
and waste timea privilege denied the lower kingdoms.
"The object of the personal instruction in this Order is to
help each pupil to come into personal touch with his own
Guru or Teacher, and thus receive his instruction in prac-
tical occultism at first hand. There are no two persons who
need exactly the same help, and for that reason no Soul who
had not reached Mastery would dare give instruction and as-
sume the karmic responsibility for' the teachings given. There-
fore, when a student is prepared for such instruction the
Teacher will be ready to give him personal training. But unless
the student has awakened his intuition sufficiently to recognize
the Master's presence, and has acquired sufficient knowledge
of the laws governing such communications, the message is
202 The Key of Destiny
apt to be misunderstood or even to be meaningless, for he will
be unable correctly to interpret it..
"The Order of the 15 is the sum of the numerals of 5. The
5 is the great mystical number of humanity, and was held
most sacred by the ancients. On their Temples where the
numerals were carved in stone the number 5 was inlaid with
pure gold. The numeral 5 stands for humanity, hence this
Order ordains to help humanity to reach the highest state of
evolution. Its Teachings deal with the human every-day
problems which must be mastered ere man becomes more than
man....
"This is the Order of Transmutation or Alchemy. And
while geometry and music are touched upon, more attention
is given to the transmutation of all the baser qualities, in-
cluding the elements or inner forces of all life, into the spiritual
gold of Regeneration through the power of Divine Love.
"The Order of the i has always existed, and traces of its
various manifestations can be found in ancient and medieval
history. All through the Middle Ages, the number 15 was
celebrated with many religious ceremonies and observances,
the Order of the Annunciation, held in such high esteem by
royalty today and said to have been founded by Count Ama-
deus of Savoy, being but an adaption to Romish ideas of the
ancient Order of the 15. The emblem of the Order of the
Annunciation is a star on which is represented the annuncia-
tion surrounded by 15 love-knots. This also symbolizes The
Order of the i, for its mission has always been, even in the
darkest periods of the world's history, to announce the pos-
sibility of bringing into manifestation (birth) the Christ-con-
sciousness which is brought about by the spread of tolerance,
liberty and brotherly love. The Masons, also retain a degree
of this Order, called the Degree of the Fifteen, its main oh.
jects being devoted to the spread of 'Tolerance and Liberty,
against Fanaticism and Persecution, political and religious;
and to that of Education, Instruction and Enlightenment
A Symposium of The Order of the 15 203
against Error, Barbarism and Ignorance.'2 These instances
all show that The Order of the 15 has always been the Open
Door through which the Light of the Great Law has reached
humanity and shown it how to evolve above the light of any
one candlestick, be it ever so golden or its light ever so bril-
liant, and how to behold the Divine Law which imparts the
Light to all, giving to each as much as his candle is able to
manifest in the world.
"The Order of the i is the Order of the Holy Grail whose
lessons prepare for the final Initiation into the Order of the
Flame. It is an expression of the Mother-force, the power
of bringing forth. It is not what you know or believe, but
what you bring forth in your life that admits you into full
membership of this Order
"In those long past ages (4700 B.C. in Egypt) this Order
was born. It wa then that the mighty mystic teachings were
given to the Race and the meaning of the symbol (Sphinx)
foretold to those Souls who were entrusted with manifesting
it. And today, as this great Aquarian Age begins its cycle,
those Souls must once more gather together their reincarnated
students and followers that that which was symbolized in stone
may be manifested in the world today, but this time erected
in the hearts and lives of men. But in that far off time, seeing
the end front the beginning and knowing the impossibility of
preserving unmixed with error and misconception the mighty
esoteric truths for which this Order stands, they were pre-
served for those who knew, for those who could understand,
in the majestic figure of the Sphinx. Therefore, each one who
is today strongly drawn in heart and mind to these teachings
wash no doubt a follower of them in those ancient days, when
the Celestial Teachers descended and gave directions how this
sacred Order (then called the Order of the Sphinx but not the
one so called today) and its principles should forever be pre-
served intact until the day of their complete manifestation.
2 MoveIs awd Dogma, PThe, 160-171. -
3 Sec The Voice of Isu, Curtis,. 61-62.63.
204 The Key of Destiny
Hence, it is fitting, as the Great Day draws near when the
many scattered ones are to be assembled, that there should
be at least a few gathered together whose hearts and minds
are attuned in perfect harmony, united in love and illumined
by understanding, and once more have the Riddle of the
Sphinx in its spiritual aspect elucidated for the betterment
of mankind
"Just as that stony figure, with its imperishable message to
humanity, has stood upon the border of the desert enduring
the fierce heat, the storms and the forces of. the ages without
disintegration, so has this Order endured throughout the ages
and its message been given to man in each succeeding cycle.
Again and again have the terrific sand storms of worldly criti-
cism and opposition beaten upon it until it seemed almost de-
stroyed and its message distorted and lost sight of. Yet as its
day dawns in each cycle the winds of heaven blow away the
accumulated sand and those who belong to its tribe are gath-
ered undeij itj banner and are once more thrilled and enlight-
ened and fed by its mystic message. And just as none can
look into the eyes of that great stone image, with their human
gaze piercing the desert depths, without feeling a thrill of
awakened inner sight, so today none who were once its follow-
ers can look into the Eye of the Order (the center of its
symbol) without feeling a thrill as its rays pierce the darkness
of their understanding and bring light into their conditions."4
"Thus is it found with those who at this stage are brought
by the Great Law into touch with the Order of Christian
Mystics after having toiled through the wilderness of all
other teachings. Those who truly belong to it, whose enlight-
ened intellect and quickened heart have enabled them really to
grasp its teachings and correlate with the great currents of
force back of them, are contented to rest in it, for in it they
have found and recognized a manifestation of The Christ and
know it to be their spiritual home, hence fed no inclination to
'Sec Th Message of Iqoana. Curtiss,
Cbapteg XVIII.
A Symposium of The Order of the 15 205
seek elsewhere. But there are many others who come to these
teachings, as they do tQ many others, seeking for just the ex-
pression of spiritual truth and the currents of force to which
their stage of unfoldment will enable them to respond. These
may stay witl us1a shorter or longer time and then find their
home elsewhere. Many, on the other hand, after going forth
again into the intellectual wilderness, return and here find rest
and satisfaction. But all are welcomed as honored guests, and
such as do not become 'Children of the Household' are cheered
on their way when they depart with a blessing and a hearty
'God-speed' and a sincere hope that they may soon find the
Christ manifesting in some other spiritual home so that they
may rest on His bosom and go no more out."
'Sec The Message ol Iqiiana Curtiss, 144.
CHAPTER XXIX.
Tue Fifteenth Letter. SAMECH ()
"Now the Serpent was more subtil than any beast
of the field which the Lord God had made."
Genesis, III, I.
"He produced Samech, predominant in Sleep,
crowned it, combined and formed with it Sagittarius
in the Universe, Kislev in the Year, and the stomach
of Man."Sepher Yet:irah, 24.
The fifteenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Samech (S).
It is one of the twelve simple letters and corresponds with the
zodiacal sign Sagittarius, the double sign "the horse and his
Rider" or the Centaur. The Centain was a mythical creature
half horse and half man and is well symbolized by the fifteenth
letter, for in 15 man has not yet fully separated himself from
his animal nature, and still in thought identifies himself with
the steed he should ride and govern. This sign is also called
the Archer and we find a very similar meaning attached to the
letter Samech. The influence of the sign Sagittarius is either
exceptionally good, if the rider sits on the horse and guides it,
or exceptionally bad if the rider identifies himself with the
horse and becomes but a Centaur. This a study of ancient
mythology will corroborate. Samech is called an arrow, the
arrow which the Archer shoots forth. "He shooteth forth
his arrows, even bitter words" or it is a sword carried by a
true Knight with which he may conquer.
The meaning of Sainech differs from that of Zain, which
is also a weapon, in that Samech is something that must re-
turn like a boomerang to the place from which it is shot forth.
Also like the English equivalent 5, it is closely connected in its
meaning with a serpent, but in Sarnech we find the serpent
swallowing its own tail; thus making a 0 which ends at
the point where it began. Iij is from this idea that the letter
has the meaning of destiny, a fixed fate or fatality, given to
it by some writers.
Samech 207'
But in its esoteric interpretation the serpent swallowing its
t2il has quite a different meaning, for it symbolizes the com-
pletion of a cycle of manifestation.1 The serpent is preparing
to shed its old skin and emerge in a new and larger one fit
for future growth. For the Aspirant this shedding of his old
ideas and conditions is a period of overlapping which is both
painful and disquieting, for until the cycle is completed the
old skin still clings and circumscribes his activity, yet this is
but a preparation for a new and less circumscribed existence.
Thus this letter stands as a link between two cycles, and
necessarily both the number 15 and the letter Sanech must
for a period circumscribe man's free-will until his karmic
harvest is reaped. Yet out of the old will emerge the new and
greater unfoldment.
Here the Aspirant must stand and face his creations, and
here he must gather up all the experiences through which
he has passed and out of them forge the link that shall pre-
pare him to enter the new cycle. He must learn here that a
boomerang will return to the sender. Here he must realize
that "all they that take up the sword shall perish with the
sword." He must learn also that even a boomerang in the
hands of one who knows how to throw it can hit the mark,
and that the sword he is to take up must be "the sword of
the Spirit which is the Word of God."
Thus we find the serpent, which in the garden of Eden
tempted infant humanity,2 was in reality the bringer of Eso.
teric Wisdom or the fruit of the Tree of Life which, if plucked
and eaten before the eater is prepared to receive and digest
it, i.e., by the unevolved or animal man, inevitably must bring
sorrow, suffering and death quite as surely as if a new-born
infant were fed on solid meat ere its digestive organs could
assimilate it. This same serpent is today beginning to swal-
low its own tail; that is, the cycle begun with the temptation
in the Garden of Eden is closing and a period of overlapping
lee The Key to tke Urnrevse, Curtiu, 26.
ISee The Voice of lass. Curt,,. .Cbapttr XVIIL
208 The'Key of Destinjj
is being experienced ere purified humanity can re-enter the
Garden. And as this painful and disturbing overlapping
period is finished and the circle of limitation thus made is
overcome, man and woman will once more return to Eden by
the gradual path of evolution. The innocence of ignorance
will be replaced by the purity acquired as a result both of the
experience gained through suffering and the wisdom gained
through the inner teachings of the Esoteric Doctrine.
The letter Sainech stands for fatality and also destiny; for
sin and suffering, death and the deviL All these, however, are
but experiences on the way. For while the serpent crawls
upon the earth and "biteth the heel of the woman," its destiny
is that the offspring of the woman shall continually bruise
its head until, through the power of divine magic, the crawling
serpent is lifted up as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilder-
ness and transformed into the Rod of Power, the Magic Wand,
with which the ultimate destiny of the whole human Race shall
one day be achieved. For the fixed destiny of mankind is
ultimate salvation. The serpent which bites or swallows its
tail is Time, which must swallow all the lesser cycles of im-
mature life. And as the perfect cycle of maturity encompasses
the earth it brings the triumph of Good.
Another meaning attributed to the letter Sanech refers to
the mysterious astral currents surrounding the earth acting as
a great reflector, so confusing because as in a mirror the re-
flection is reversed. Again it is predominant in sleep, for
during sleep, unless trained and guided, we are apt to wander
in the little understood astral regions. Also during the period
symbolized by this letter the most of humanity are spiritually
asleep, dreaming bad and confusing dreams. They are seeing
things reflected reversed, "call evil good and good evil; that
put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter
for sweet, and sweet for bitter."3
Santech is also associated with the stomach of man because
3 Iz..L V. 20.
LE DJALE
THE 1STU TAROT CARD
PILE DEVIL
(The Goat of Merides
Is xv
i'apui MEDIEVAL TYPES Papss
Smith
MODERN TYPE
St. Germain
EGYPTIAN TYPE
Santeck 209
it is only the power to digest and assimilate Esoteric Wisdom
that can nourish and carry man safely through this period in
his Soul's unfoldment. No axnount of study will alone answer,
yet it is as necessary to study if we would assimilate wisdom
as it is to eat food if the stomach is expected to digest it and
provide nourishment for the physical body.
THE FIFTEENTH TAROT CARD.
The Devil.
The fifteenth card of the Tarot is called The Devil, but as
we have fully considered the devil in a former chapter and
have shown just where he stands and how he became so un-
portant a factor in this world, we will say no more about him;
for, as Eliphas Levi so graphically says: "He who affirms the
devil, creates or makes the devil."
This card should be compared with the first card of the
Tarot, The Juggler, for in that card we considered man with
the symbols of his powers within his reach, with the Wand of
the Magician in his hand and the portion of goods given him
by his Father ere he took his journey into the far country of
earth life spread out before him. In the fifteenth card we
again contemplate man the Magician, but we now find him
confronting not his possibilities, but the actual results of his
work; we see what he has brought forth for humanity through
the power of his Magic Wand. Here we find humanity, rep.
resented by a man and woman, chained together and the chain
attached by an iron staple to the pedestal on which they have
erected the gigantic figure of evil, the devil, while they like
slaves stand before his footstool awaiting his commands.
In this card the vivifying force of life which crowned man
as the Juggler in the first card has now become the universal
destroying force; the Sceptre or Magic Wand held in the hand
of the Juggler has now become the demon's torch of incendiar-
ism, scorching with its hot breath everything it touches. The
angel wings on which man could rise to heaven if he would
are here changed to bat wings, symbol of the dark night
210 The Key of Destiny
through which he is hopelessly flitting with awkward beating
of his wings, following every will-o'-the-wisp, every gleam
of false light. Yet when the morning dawn begins to streak
the sky he deliberately hangs himself upside down in the
darkest spot he can find and covers his eyes with his wings
lest he see the Light. However, if we carefully consider this
card, with its dark and sinister symbol, we will find that eso-
terically it carries out most perfectly the meaning we have
already given to number 15.
In this card we see that the hands are in a reversed position
from those of the Juggler. In other words, the young man
starting out in his innocence to accomplish, holds high the
Magic Wand. The hands always symbolize man's ability to
accomplish, his right hand accomplishing upon earth through
the outer or exoteric means of accomplishment, i. e., through
the intellect and through physical activity. The left hand
is the symbol of an inner accomplishment, 1. e., the accomplish.
ment of his own inner life, his attainment of esoteric wisdom
and the use he makes of it. Hence the Juggler holds the
Magic Wand in his left hand and points it to heaven, indi-
cating that only from on high can he receive the power to
accomplish, while in the fifteenth card the figure which now
takes the place of the Juggler holds the left hand pointing
to earth and in it a lighted torch. For at this step humanity's
only idea of the mystic power of the Magician, symbolized
by the Juggler, is that of black magic, fittingly symbolized by
the devil, man's evil genius. His only idea of the divine
Light is a torch held to earth to illumine and thus further
the accomplishment of his own personal ends. Yet the flame
of the torch burns upward, casting only its shadow below
while the man and the woman turn their backs to its Light.
His right hand, which should be reaching down to earth to
spread the blessings of accomplishment for humanity, instead
is held aloft and in it is grasped firmly a sword, a symbol
of his determination to carve from heaven by force the power
that will enrich him and add to his self aggrandizement.
Samech 211
Yet a careful consideration of the monster form which the
man and woman have erected will show it has little semblance
of life. The symbol of life adorning the cap on the head ot
the Juggler is here replaced by the horns of the goat, and in
spite of his effort to draw down the Light of Heaven to
illumine his earthly darkness, it can manifest only as a flicker-
ing smoking torch.
The sword lifted high is in reality the Sword of the Spirit
which must accomplish its own divine mission, 1. e., separate
that which is false from that which is true. If man in his
ignorance lifts it high to heaven, through it he will of a surety
accomplish his destined purification, because he has taken up
or held aloft the sword, hence all that is evil in him must
inevitably perish with the sword. Mark well the wording.
It does not say perish by the sword, as so many think, but
with it; that is, the physical sword and all it means when
brought to manifest on earth, will perish when its mission is
accomplished, and all who have made of it the Magic Wand
and depended on it to accomplish their ends will and must
perish with it. Yet as it perishes from earth as an ideal, in
falling it will cut asunder the chains that now bind humanity to
evil, for it will be that only in man which has lifted up the
sword, or the devil he has created by his false use of his
powers, that will perish.
CHAPTER XXX.
The Number 16. VICTORY.
"The transcendent world is therefore open to who-
ever has sufficient Will (or even artificial impulsion)
to triumph over the forces which guard it; but woe
to that man who approaches it with a passionate and
selfish heart; with lowered head he will fall back into
the current of decomposition, where he will be dis-
solved. Nature destroys all Evil; it is the law of
selection !"The Tarot of the Bohemian:, Papus,
266.
The meaning of number 16 must be largely derived from a
consideration of the digits of which it is composed, the ten of
Completion and the six of the Christ-force and the six Days
of Labor. Here we find the One Life of the Father (1), sup-
porting the struggle of the Christ-force (6) to manifest in
matter, here so united (16=1+6=7) that they are able to
manifest Perfection (7) on earth in physical nature. This
indicates that in 16 the first victory has been won. The Christ-
force has worked up through the lower kingdoms and reached
into the human. The great unrest of number six has, through
its constant activity of destroying, rebuilding and perfecting,
gained its first victory and the "Word" has become flesh or is
embodied in man. Henceforth man must consciously embody
the number six of the Christ-force in himself and permit it to
repeat the cycle of unrest in him. Wescott calls 16 Felicity,
while others regard it unfavorably, but as usual the true
meaning lies in the middle. Number 16 is called the Number
of Victory, yet it is by no meaus the complete and final
Victory.
Another aspect of 16 is one little understood hence seldom
alluded to, namely, the connection between it and the cle-
mentals. In The Key of the Universe1 we explain that all
Nature Sprites bear the impress of niunber six, just as man
does number five, in their makeup. Now since 16 is 1+6=7
iPage 204.
212
Victory 213
it is natural to find it in some way connected with the dc-
mentals. This is quite true, but the connection is with the
rulers of the different tribes of elementals, or their kings.
In these elemental kingdoms a king or a ruler is one only be-
cause such an one is a synthesis of the elemental forces of that
kingdom of nature, hence can be used as a tool we might say
under the great Hierarchies who are working to form and
develop nature and bring it to perfection. Just so man when
he has reached a certain step in evolution must become an
instrument of or a co-worker with the Divine. One great
difference between man and the elementals is that the ele-
mentals, because without free-will, obey automatically the
will of those using them, but man having the gift of free-will,
must obey because he himself has decided it is best.
Quite naturally such synthetic elemental entities agree with
16, for six, the number of nature, has been wedded to the ten
which has perfected its expression in that kingdom. As
number six is the mysterious aspect of the One Life filling
all nature and as the nature elementals are the living atoms
in the stream of that Life in nature, so number 16 represents
a state of development where the One Life is far more defi-
nitely organized and entitized. A most remarkable corrobora-
tion of this has recently been brought to our attention in an
article in The Occult Review of London, of November, 1917.
"Here it was that I met with a girl who had more
knowledge of elementals than any one I have since met.
HaIf-witted she was, so the schoolmaster told me; it had
been utterly impossible to teach her anything at school;
he doubted whether she could even read or write in-
telligibly, but he was a Lowlander from the Border coun-
try, and rather fancied himself on a certain intellectual
agnosticism. Any how this girl bad a certain sweet wis-
dom of her own, which was perhaps beyond anything that
was taught in the schooL She told me that whenever any
of the Kings of the Elementals came across the island,
any one who knew could see their footprints, and know
what was coming.
"One day she showed me a mark in the soft ground at
214 The Key of Destiny
the edge of a peat moss. 'That's the foot of the Sea
King,' she said. 'He is going up to the heights of the
Coolins. There will be a rain storm tonight.' The mark,
whatever it was, was perfectly distinct, six crescents ar-
ranged round a circle, quite unlike the track of any beast
I am acquainted with. It was a blue and cloudless day
with never a hint of rain, but sure enough at sunset
ominous black lurid clouds piled themselves on the peaks
of the Coolins, and before midnight there came such a
deluge of rain as I have seldom seen."
The unfavorable side of 16 is derived from the fact that
this number is associated with what is known as spells or
bewitchments. The reason for this is quite plain, for spells,
bewitchments and witchcraft can only be effective when the
elementals are called to the aid of a powerful will, for as we
have said, all nature forces are living elementals commanded
by certain conscious entities. They are without free-will yet
eager to work out the will of any being whose will is strong
enough to command them. They are utterly without responsi-
bility hence obey a strong will and accomplish evil quite as
readily as they accomplish good, but karmic retribution is
brought upon those who invoke them as their servants to
accomplish evil, in that these elemental forces once started
upon a destructive path go on blindly until turned into a differ-
ent path by a stronger will, hence will ultimately destroy the
one thus using them. It is like starting a forest fire which if
unchecked will destroy the home of the one starting it. It is
through the elementals working out in nature the evil thoughts
and creations of man that he has fulfilled the curse, "Cursed
is the ground for thy sake. Thorns also and thistles shall it
bring forth to thee."
Therefore the only sense in which the spells or bewitchments
can achieve any real force is when, either by the conscious use
of the Will pr through selfish ignorance, the one desiring to
influence another, either for their hurt or as often happens for
what the ignorant one thinks is for their good, calls forth the
mighty potency of the Creative Power, the Christ-force or the
Victory 215
Z'rilliant Light of the Vast Countenancea call all elementais
must obeyand strives by the power of his Will to pervert
it for his own selfish ends. To use this terrible power to de-.
stroy rather than create must ultimately destroy the one so
using it, even though the power is evoked ignorantly to destroy
the free-will of another or bend it to his. If the Will is used
through a selfish and willful determination to bring to oneself
power, health, wealth and happiness the perversion is just as
disastrous in the end, for this divine power is the eternal un-
rest and constant effort of number six to destroy all evil and
make way for perfection that man like nature may express the
perfect pattern of God-hood. Therefore to so use the Will
as to make this power work for our own selfish ends, rather
than to use all our Will to make our personality work with
it to bring about peace, harmony and perfection, is like focus-
ing an oxy-hydrogen flame or an electric current, both of
which might be very useful to cut through steel and accomplish
useful work, but dangerous to play with and criminal to use
f or burgiarious purposes.
In kabalistic language number 16 is the sixth day, while
the number six kabalistically considered would be the sixth
hour of the day. The Vast and Lesser Countenances of Mac-
roprosopus and Microprosopus plainly mean that the Vast
Countenance is the perfect expression of the Christ-force on
high, all shining brilliancy and perfection, while the Lesser
Countenance is its reflection in matter through the zodiac.
Therefore if in the sixth hour the mystical power of this
mighty Countenance of God shines down and reflects itself
in matter, struggling to make a perfect image, how much
more mystical and powerful must be the symbol of the inter-
laced triangles, which represent number six, when consid-
ered from the standpoint of 16 instead of six. Here we have
the fullness of the command "Six days shalt thou labor and
do all thy work?' We stand at 16 as it were on an eminence
and see the Christ-light struggling with the darkness and
inertia of matter, yet see that it has accomplished a definite
216 The Key of Destiny
amount of work, hence we can go on in the assurance that its
mystical power is all potent and must conquer, for it has
already gained a victory over nature.
In the Thirty-two Paths of Wisdom,2 the "Sixteenth Path
is the Triumphal or Eternal Intelligence, so called because it
is the pleasure of the Glory, beyond which is no other Glory
like to it, and it is called also the Paradise prepared for the
Righteous."
Thus when man walks to the end of this sixteenth Path
he will indeed be filled with the Glory of the Eternal Intelli-
gence, for then the Christ-life will express itself in man even
as it does in nature, and no longer can it be said of the lilies
of the field that, "Solomon in all his glory is not arrayed as
one of these," for when Solomon, the man of Wisdom, is
clothed in the Christ Glory at the completion of the sixteenth
Path, in his kingdom he will be just as perfect an expression of
God's handiwork, and there will be no Glory like unto it.
Kabalistically 16 is called the Solar Light, and is sacred to
the Sun, which is the eye of the world. Claud de Saint Martin
the Unknown Philosopher states in his book, Livre des Rap-
ports, that the primitive alphabet was composed of 16 signs.
Also Lacour in his book on the Elohim has inductively de-
termined the existence of a primitive alphabet composed of
16 signs. Still another author, Barrols, reached the same con-
clusion as to the existence of 16 primitive signs on which the
twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet were built.
Another meaning often ascribed to number 16 is the Fall
of Satan's Kingdom. This is deduced from the meaning
given by Apollonius who calls number 16 the seventh hour
of Initiation, i. e., the hour when the Neophyte rests for a
period in the Hall of RealizationApollonius calls it The
Lightning Struck Tower, and says of it "Fire comforts every
living creature, and if some priest, himself a pure man, purloin
and use it, if he blend it with holy oil, consecrate it and then
2S.ihe, Ydd.û. 30.
Victory 217
anoint some ailing limb with it, the malady will be cured."3
Fire is the great purifier, hence the Neophyte must make it
his servant, resting in the divine assurance that fire, the divine
element, will consume only that which is evil; that which agrees
with its inner force will be sublimed and glorified. But woe
to him if he be not pure, for at this step where he invokes the
fire he is threatened with dissolution more or less complete
according to his intellectual and moral unworthiness. If how-
ever, he be found worthy this baptism of fire makes him one
of the Magi.
This idea is expressed in the beautiful myth of Psyche and
Cupid, the Soul and the fire of love. In this myth we have a
story of the Soul in its struggles through matter, its seduction
through mortal love and its purification through labor and
suffering, i. e., another story of Initiation. Cupid the son of
Venus or the earthly offspring of the Divine Mother-love,
the reflection of the Divine into matter, found Psyche, the
Soul, sleeping in the garden of Venus. In the garden there
were two fountains of water (the water of lifethe water
of illusion) the one sweet and the other bitter. These two
fountains forever spread their sweet and bitter waters in the
garden of love where the Soul wanders and often sleeps. But
Cupid who wished to chain Psyche to earth touched her lips
with the bitter waters of earth. Then Psyche awoke and in
her amazement at the beauty of Cupid she spilled over him
the sweet Waters of Life Eternal, and at the same time
wounded herself with her own arrow.
As earth love touches the lips with bitterness the Soul
awakes, and by its wondrous beauty enamours the earthly
child of the Divine Mother, human love, Cupid. For a long
time Psyche never saw her husband, but constantly- heard
his seductive voice and felt his radiant presence, until at
last, driven to desperation by the desire to see and know, i. e.,
reaching the stage of 16 or the culmination of the cycle of six
3 Quoted by Papus. Tarot of the Bokemiaa: 269.
218 The Key of Destiny
(unrest) in the darkness of the night (the rest hour), Psyche
determines to see. Finding Cupid asleep she holds high her
Lamp of Truth, determined to see her godlike spouse, even
if she perish at the sight. But being amazed and enraptured
at the beauty of her sleeping lord she lets fall one drop of
burning oil upon his fair shoulder and he flees from her, for
he was only the earthly shadow of Divine Love hence could
not stand the test of the Divine Fire.
How often we seek for the Divine in its human offspring
and then when the fiery ordeal comes we find it no more!
Yet like Psyche we cannot forget. If the love given to
humanity has been pure, little by little the Soul remembers
that it is of divine origin, hence must be immortaL So while
accepting it as the offspring of heaven we seek its source,
knowing that Love is immortal even if Cupid, its earthly child,
can be wounded or frightened away. Then in our life experi-
ence we pass through the mental ordeal of fire, for Divine
Love is Fire in its highest aspect. Hence no burning earthly
tear-drop, no withering doubt or fear can quench it. In its
radiant shining it swallows up all tears. Once having reached
this point the Soul like Psyche can never rest, but starts out
on its long and laborious search through all the worlds, or we
enter on the Path by giving up our earthly god to find God.
And only when the Soul like Psyche has climbed laboriously
to the dreary heights of the Mount of Attainment and humbly
knocked for admission on the little door which gives entrance
to the Temple of Venus (the Divine Mother), can we com-
plete the sixth day of labor and find our rest one the seventh,
16=1+6=7. Then we find not only Divine Love, but we
find that this Divine Love includes all love throughout the
Manifest Universe, hence if we are joined to it at its source
it must bring to us Love Immortal throughout the spheres.
CHAPTER XXXI.
The Sixteenth Letter, AYIN (37
He produced Ayin, predominant in Anger.
crowned it, combined and formed with it Capricornus
in the Universe, Tebet in the year, and the liver
in man."Sepher Yelzirah, 25.
The sixteenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Ayin (37).
It is one of the twelve simple letters and corresponds to the
zodiacal sign Capricorn. Its meaning is an eye. By Papus
this letter is given a hieroglyphical correspondence with the
sixth letter Vau, the nieaning of which is given as a peg or
nail, a link or connection between two antagonists. The human
eye, the window of the Soul, is a link between the spiritual
life and the physical. But there is a decided difference in the
meaning of Ayin, for while both refer to the eye and its power
of seeing, Vau refers to the human eye which can look out
and by its power of seeing grasp something of the physical
plane, while the Ayin is the inner eye, which is the organ of
spiritual sight. For only as an inner comprehension of what
we see with the outer eye is grasped and interpreted can we
ay we really see. Hence the expression often used when
one comprehends a thing, "I see," meaning I comprehend.
Therefore while undeveloped man has a perfect physical eye
given him as a link between the inner world or Soul and the
outer world of manifestation he may remain quite ignorant
until he has passed through a complete cycle of unfoldment
comparable to ten and has learned to see by the use of his
mind, i. e., until the things he sees outwardly have taken on a
new significance in his mind. Here is where the letter Ayin
corresponds with the liver in man, for in the liver is a very
important center, namely, that of Kama or the desire principle.
And only as this principle of desire is illumined by the Light
from the Inner Eye and we begin to desire enlightenment can
219
220 The Key of Destiny
the mind be gradually illumined and enable us to see the inner
meaning and reality of things and thus interpret what we see.
Thus while 16 by some authors is compared to the physical
eye and is considered from its material basis we can still see
that it represents a cycle of ongoing.
The desire principle, Ka,na, has ever been looked upon as
man's tempter, the cause of his fall, et cetera, yet since the
fall into matter or the clothing of the Soul in coats of skin
was an absolutely necessary step in evolution, so through the
desire principle alone can he fully learn the great lessons and
accomplish the great work of redemption which his evolution
demands. Again while the seat of desire is in the liver, it is
by its mysterious connection with Manas, the mind, that it
produces effects. For the Rational Mind acting through a
center in the corpora-quadrigemina is called by Eastern
teachers Kama-nzanas, and this is where the mental pictures
produced through the eye are registered. And since this
Rational Mind of man is the battle ground where the desires
of the lower animal self (Kama) come up to man's atten-
tion for him to cognize and, by the power of his higher mind
(Buddhi inanas), to decide whether they are to be indulged or
denied, if we postulate man's impotency to control these lower
desires, we may agree with Papus who says of the sixteenth
letter, "it is the sign of material sense. Again, degenerated,.
it expresses all that is crooked, false, perverse, and bad."
But if on the other hand if we refuse to admit his impotency
to control his desires we see in this step but a link between.
man's lowest materialization and his highest ideals. We see in
it, as we did in the sixth letter, the Christ-force struggling with
matter, but now struggling with the materials of man's mind-
stuff; the Christ-consciousness struggling with the animal con-
sciousness. Shall the desire of the animal hold him in its
power? or through the mental pictures seen by his inner un-
derstanding of outer things shall it but force him to reach up
and grasp hold of the rope (the antaskarana) thrown him as a
bridge to connect his lower mind with his highç, over which
Papus
THE LIGHTNING STRUCK TOWER
THE 16TH TAROT CARD
MEDIEVAL TYPES
I'
LAMA1SN.DI V)
Papu,
St. Cermoi StnitA
EGYPTIAN TYPE MODERN TYPE
Ayin 221
he can climb up and dwell in the higher consciousness of the
BuddJzi-manas
It is also the desire principle manifesting through the cen-
ter in the liver of man which acts to produce anger. But
it is also the same force that gives to man his supremacy
over the beasts of the field and the power to rule them; for we
are told that the man who ruleth his temper is greater than
he who taketh a city.
Astronomically it corresponds with the zodiacal sgn Capri-
corn. This sign governs the knees, and it is the knees which
symbolize the power to stand erectwhich differentiates man
from the beastsalso the power to command, the term "bow
the knee" being synonymous with servility. Capricorn, how-
ever, is an earthy sign and typifies man striving in his own
strength to climb the heights of attainment But it is also in
this sign that the Christ is born and laid in the mang& of our
animal self, the place where the ass (uncultured thought), the
ox (procreative power) and the goat (ambition) are wont to
feed. It is noteworthy that in all pictures of the Nativity of
Jesus some or all of these animals stand beside the manger in
which the child is laid.
Again the sixteenth letter shows the eye as the Window
of the Soul which has completed its first cycle and in that
cycle fully manifested a physical vehicle for the Soul-light,
the brilliance of the Divine glory, like unto which there is no
other glory. But here man, by the exercise of his free-will,
can make of his eye the open window through which this
glory shines, or can metamorphose its light until it becomes
the power of fascination such as a snake might use to draw
a bird into its power, or the hypnotic eye which is a vehicle
of evil.
THE SIXTEENTH TAROT CARD.
The Lightning Struck Tower.
The sixteenth card of the Tarot is called the Lightning
Struck Tower, astrologically corresponding with the sign Cap-
222 The Key of Destiny
ricorn. On the card is the picture of a high tower built of
bricks, bricks always symbolizing man's handiwork, while rock
represents God's work. The battlements (symbol of warfare)
of this tower have been struck by lightning; and two men, one
crowned the other uncrowned, are falling with the tower.
By some this is taken to symbolize the fall of Adam, and
also the fall of the Spirit into materialization.
Quite true, but considering its numerical value as well as
the zodiacal sign with which it is associated, it seems more in
keeping to say that this High Tower symbolizes man's intel-
lectual unfoldment and his material achievements built up
brick upon brick (thought upon thought) through all his cyde
of ten until he thinks that like the Tower of Babel his material
and intellectual achievements will enable him to reach high
heaven. Yet he forgets that heaven can send its shafts of
fire to teach puny man his place.
The idea of this card is well expressed in the Voice of the
Silence.1 "Self-gratulation, 0 Disciple, is like unto a lofty
Tower, up which a haughty fool has climbed." But we must
remember that the lightning is but one phase of the Divine
Fire which destroys only that which is evil, and purifies that
which is good. In this card we see man, crowned and Un-
crowned alike, cast down from the tower built of his own
ambition and to his own glorification, only that he may learn
to build upon the living rock of Spirit, erect his tower out
of the stones of truth, make good deeds to his fellow men
the bricks and loving thoughts and aspirations the mortar by
'which they are cemented. Then the lightning playing around
his tower will only illumine it and make it stand out as a
beacon to lead others to the heights.
In this card we again catch the idea of the inner eye; for
while the Sun is the eye of the physical universe, i. e., the outer
eye Vau, lightning is produced from the electro-magnetic
forces from the Sun (Father which have been absorbed by
1 Blavatslcy.
223
the water in the clouds (mother), while we might call the
flash o.f lightning the birth of terrestrial fire or the invisible
Father-mother becoming visible and so materialized that they
may even cause a physical conflagration, just as we see with
our eye, but only as we perceive with our mind is the thought
produced which will result in a physical act.
The two men falling with the tower show the utter futility
of man's attainments if he builds his tower of earthly pomp
and wears a crown of earthly homage in defiance to the law
of Divine Justice. The very height to which he has climbed,
even to the battlements of his tower, taking with him the
slavish devotion of the uncrowned masses, but makes of him
a target for the Fire of the Law to bring him low. For thus
will the highest attainments of man's unregenerated powers
ever crumble to fragments when the ineffable glory of the
Divine Christ-force shall manifest itself. In 16 we see Cosmic
Consciousness struggling through man's thoughts, ambitions
and achievements and bringing them to naught that he may
build better on the true foundation, just as we saw the Christ-
force in six struggling in matter, tearing down, disintegrating
and changing forms that higher and more perfect ones may
be built, forms capable of permitting the Divine Life-force
to manifest more perfectly.
Therefore the Crowned King who sits upon the pinnacle
of man's temple (or high tower) beholding all the kingdoms
of the earth ready to fall down and worship at the feet of
the Lord of this World, together with his sycophant and
dupe who looks to and worships only heights of man's erec-
tion, both shall be cast down along with the fragments of the
tower they have builded.
This card is associated with the sign Capricorn because
this zodiacal sign exerts very much the same influence as the
primary force of ambition and worldly achievement. As we
have already pointed out, the habits of the animals which give
the signs their names do so, not because the shape of the con-
stellations bear any resemblance to the animals, but because
224 The Key of Destiny
the influences exerted by the signs find expression in the
habits and characteristics of the animals indicated. Hence by
studying the characteristics of the animals in question we can
determine the kind of influence which the sign they represent
will have on man..
In this sign the goat dimbs to great heights and sustains
himself on almost any product that the earth can produce, yet
he cannot fly intcir the ether or draw sustenance from on high.
Hence the goat in its symbology points to the manifestation
and materialization of the Divine Light (Christ-force) work-
ing through mortal agencies. It must be remembered that
it is in Capricorn (Dec. 20 to Jan. 21) that the Christ is born
or is made flesh, i. c., is embodied in man, the highest link in
the creation of this physical universe.
CHAPTER XXXII.
The Number 17. THE DIsPOsING INTELI.IGENCE.
"The Seventeenth Path is the Disposing Intelli-
gence, which provides Faith to the Righteous, and
they are clothed with the Holy Spirit by it, and it
is called the Foundation of Excellence in the state
of higher things."Sepher Yetzirah, 30.
In the above quotation we find the mystical meaning of
Number 17, namely, the Disposing Intelligence which pro-.
vides Faith to the Righteous. This indeed expresses the full
meaning of 17, for only the righteous or those who are not
only on the right Path, but who have been able to manifest
this Disposing Intelligence even in the little things of life,
can have the faith which Jesus referred to when he said. "If
ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto
this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall
remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you?'1
A Disposing Intelligence formulates an intellectual concep-
tion of truth which then has to be weighed, tested and freed
from all error. It must prove that from the heart alone can
come the Foundation of Excellence. Hence one who has thus
intellectually sifted all knowledge and disposed of all that
stands in the way of revealed truth is clothed with the Holy
Ghost. This is the overshadowing of the Holy Spirit of which
Jesus said: "Even the Spirit of Truth whom the world can-
not receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him,
but ye know him for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in
you?'2 And again "But the Comforter which is the Holy
Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach
you all thing; and bring all things to your remembrance,
whatsoever I have said unto you."2
The formation of 17 (10+7=17=8) shows that it is an
important step in evolution; 8 being the Number of Evolution.
1St. Matthew. XVII, 20.
2St. John, XIV, 17.26.
225
226 The Key of Destiny
In number 7 we saw the Perfection of the seven-fold Elohim
which had created man in their image and started him out on
his triumphal journey through the Cycle of Necessity armed as
a warrior to go forth to Victory. In 17 we see the 10 or
Completion added to Perfection, thus 10+7=17. In 7 we saw
the Soul resting on its Sabbath Day crc it essayed its journey.
The Soul in this seventh day is looked upon by the Lord and is
pronounced very good. Hence we might say that 7 marks the
perfect Soul as God made it, unsullied by contact with its
garment of flesh, while 17 is that same Soul when it has
completed the cycle of 10 and gained the Victory over the
flesh, having added a cycle of experience to its pristine purity.
The Initiate has entered into his kingdom of flesh, has strug-
gled with it and compelled it to obey his mandates. He has
faced temptations, felt the chill of the night of darkness,
doubts and fears and the thirst for power and has made his
thoice. His feet (understanding) have been "washed in the
blood of his heart," hence he can now stand in the presence
of the Masters, i. e., the blood of the heart which has bathed
his feet is the spiritual life-stream which flows through the
heart rather than the head, and has now bathed and washed
clean his understanding of truth.
However, 17 is but another rest-house although far up on
the rugged mountainside. Here the pilgrim may abide for a
night and listen to the wise discourse of the Masters who
have gone before. This is a most important step, for here
he must begin to recognize himself as a creator, a mighty
factor in the Great Army of the Voice. Not only must he
be accountable for the creative thoughts and words in him-
self, but must be held responsible for their effect on his fellow
men and the whole planet. The evolution of 17 as 8 is not
only the personal evolution of number 8 already described,3
but is the evolution of the Race, hence one who has reached
this point must become an active factor in helping on this
Z 7*. ICe3 to the Uuirevse. Curtis.. 102-134.
The Dispong Intelligence 227
evolution. Here he must be consciously clothed with the Holy
Ghost, not in a vague way, but as a recognized force, a guide
and a Comforter on whom he can rely. He must also be in a
definite relationship with those Rulers in each kingdom whose
duty it is to sound and express and pass on "the Creative
Word."
"In each kingdom there are the Rulers called by various
names: Dhyan Chohans, Devas, et cetera, in regular orders,
each with his special field of operation and each subject to
a still higher intelligence above him, all obeying and passing
on the Word, the lower expression of these rulers being Nature
Sprites or nature elementals, while the Highest are Planetary
Rulers." When man reaches the step symbolized by 17 he
comes into conscious at-one-ment with this mighty army of
workers and should take his place, realize and accept his
responsibilities and work with the Law toward the mani..
festation of Divine Perfection. For on the step symbolized
by 17 man himself becomes a sort of rest-house for the creative
force; that is, here man must consciously touch the Higher
Intelligences and must stand as a distributor to the lower.
He does this through the power of his now spiritualized Will
and the Victory he has gained over his thoughts. This func-
tion is called creating through the power of Kriyashakti.
"The first step towards the accomplishment of Kriyashakti is
the use of the Imagination. To imagine a thing is to firmly
create a model of what you desire, perfect in all its details. The
Will is then brought into action, and the form is thereby trans-
[erred to the objective world. This is creation by Kriya-
shakti."
While man can and must become an active participator
either for good or evil in the evolution of the planet, yet each
kingdom is subject to the Dhyan Chohan ruling that kingdom.
"The whole Kosmos is guided, controlled, and animated by
almost endless series of Hierarchies of sentient Beings, each
4 Vw,tt Docfyj,,e. Blavatsky. III. 561.
228 The Key of Destiny
having a mission to perform, and whowhether we give them
one name or another, whether we call them Dhyan Chohans
or Angelsare 'Messengers,' in the sense only that they are
the agents of Karmic and Cosmic La5 For instance, all
animals of the one species are ubject to the Group Soul
(Dhyan Chohan) of that species, yet each Group Soul owes
obedience to the Planetary Ruler of that Hierarchy from
which it emanated. While each of the lower kingdoms has
its rulers, Nature Sprites, et cetera, yet the influence of the
Ruler of the Hierarchy is supreme, i. e., the kingdoms can
only evolve through obedience to the laws governing the
Hierarchy to which they belong.
Each human Soul also belongs to a certain Planetary
Hierarchy which gives him his dominant characteristics, yet
in the course of his pilgrimage through matter he will be
born under all the various planetary conditions. In fact,
crc he becomes the victor over planetary influences he must
have passed through all the 12 houses and mastered the in-
fluences of all the 12 signs, no matter how many hundreds
of incarnations this may require. When these cycles have
been completed he shall then become one of the 144,000
(12X12=144), a perfected Master. And 1_I I I 1 =9, the
number of the Initiates who were the first to be sealed from
all the tribes of the Children of Israel (the 12 houses).
As we have said in our lectures on Bible interpretation:
'To understand this 144,000 we must realize that each Soul
that is born is an emanation from one of the great Spiritual
Beings which rule the universe, called in our Bible the Elohim
or the Seven Angels of the Presence, which rule the signs
of the zodiac. Each Soul incarnates under a particular sign to
learn the lessons which are the degree of manifestation of
that particular force. After he has passed an incarnation in
that sign, learning as much as he can little by little, he in-
carnates in another sign with all the experience he has gained
ike Secret Docinue. Blavatskj. 1. 295.
The Disposing Intelligeflce 229
in the first sign built into the new body as inherent faculties
and abilities: and so he goes on around the entire zodiac.
When he comes back again to the first sign in which he started
he has the added powers that he has gained in passing through
all the other signs and hence can take up the same lessons
on a higher plane and with a greater power to manifest the
positive aspect of the forces of that sign. Thus must each
Soul pass around the zodiac and learn the lessons of the
forces from each of the 12 signs. This will require at least
12 incarnations in each sign, the 12X12 making in all 144.
The thousands are simply the ciphers relating to certain mystic
eras in his perfection.
"Therefore those who were sealed out of the different tribes
were those who had completed this twelve-fold cycle, who
had gained the power out of each sign twelve different times
or in its twelve different phases. They may have made 1,000
incarnations in one sign before they were able to conquer its
characteristics, but symbolically they must have passed through
it at least twelve times. Hence those sealed out of the twelve
tribes means that out of each phase of humanity there will
be those who reach Mastery and are able to be sealed with
the seal of the Lord.
"This has a very particular help in your daily life. We
hear so many people say, 'I was born under Libra (or Capri-
corn or Scorpio, et cetera) and of course I cannot conquer in
this incarnation in such a sign. You cannot expect me to con-
quer. I am not responsible for my failure.' And immedi-
ately there sets in a phase of discouragement. But we see
that since you pass through every sign it does not make any
difference what sign you are in now. You can conquer if you
look to the Lamb. If you use the power of 'the root of
David.' No matter what sign you are in, no matter what
particular lesson you must learn, it is possible for you to
conquer in that sign."
"After the twelve thousand were sealed out of each tribe
we find there was a great company besides. Those who have
230 The Kejj of Desliny
been absolutely sealed have finished all the manifestations
of the forces of the zodiac and have obtained the Mastery
of the Sun, but besides these we find there are countless
hosts. 'And after this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude,
which no man could number, of all nations, and peoples, and
kindred:, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the
Lamb, clothed with white robes.' e Thousands from every sign
of the zodiac stood before the Lamb, dothed in white robes
with palms in their hands. These are they who have attained
to a certain degree of Mastery, the mastery of one sign, and
who have recognized the necessity of leading the Christ-life
and hence have donned their white robes and have palms in
their bands.
"You will note that there were many circles around the
throne. First the beasts, outside them the elders, outside them
the 144,000, outside them the great mass of humanity, no 'lost
tribes,' no 'lost souls,' all mankind were there. If we take
the literal construction or the ordinary understanding that
there will be only 144,000 persons saved out of the millions on
earth and who have passed away we will find it a most unjust
and preposterous idea. For the very next verse states that
there were countless millions who stood around the throne,
showing that all humanity will ultimately, as they attain, wear
the white robes and stand around the throne and there sing
their songs or anthems to the Lamb. These are they who have
washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb and made them
white. That is a horrible idea if taken literally. But if we
remember that the symbology of the 'blood' in all spiritual
teachings is the spiritual life-force, just as the physical blood
renews the physical life-force so the higher circulation carries
the spiritual life-force of the Christ through all our bodies.
And it is only by washing all our 'garments' or allowing the
Christ-force to permeate all our bodies that we can ultimately
sit down around his throne."
S R.vsloiwu. VII. 9.
The Dispoaing Intelligence 231
When the New Jerusalem comes down from heaven it is
represented as having 12 gates and at each gate 12 angels stand,
i. e., 12 influences of the Rulers of the Hierarchies. As man
gains the Victory over or learns to correlate with and control
these forces he co-operates in the work of their Hierarchies
and penetrates deeper and deeper toward the center of Being.
His field of influence is constantly increased because he has
etherealized and spiritualized his bodies, faculties and powers
so they can respond to these higher Orders. Therefore one of
the great objections to astrology as generally practiced in the
making of horoscopes is explained; for there are no two per-
sons exactly alike. Two may be born at the same moment in
the same place, under the same planetary influences, but each
may belong to a separate Hierarchy which colors with its own
influence all conditions of his life. Again, one may be working
through the particular sign for the seventh, eighth or even
twelfth time while the other is in it for the first time. Thus
each will have a separate lesson to learn and different aspects
of the forces in that sign to correlate with and to manifest,
although the astrological chart for each would be the same.
Among the Egyptians number 17 was associated with one
of their deepest and most mystical teachings, one which has
never been properly apprehended by modern scholars, namely,
the myth of Osiris. Here we find Osiris as the Sun God
(Number 1), Isis the Moon Goddess (Number 7) and Set the
Destroyer, who is none other than Saturn (Number 8) the
Great Initiator, who induced Osiris to enter a coffin which ex-
actly fitted him, and who is identical with the serpent who per-
suaded Adam and Eve to fall into generation or to be clothed
in coats of skinthe physical body which is a coffin which just
fits. After cutting the body of Osiris into many pieces (Adam
and Eve becoming many people) he was drowned in the Nile,
always a symbol of the river of physical life renewing itself
yearly by the flood which overflows its banks and brings forth
vegetation. Isis is not only a symbol of the nourishing principle
of nature. but the Great Mother-force which nourishes and
232 The Key of Destiny
brings forth good out of evil in mankind and in all creation;
that underlying power of Divine Love which, no matter how
the perversity of human passions imprint inharmony and death
upon the world, is still ever working unseen, unrecognized to
cover up the scars of man's making, to renew life and to heal,
uplift and advance. It is this nourishing force which heals
all wounds if they are kept dean and let alone. In short,
Isis symbolized the Divine Motherhood of the Godhead, the
Comforter, the Holy Ghost so prominent in 17, which Jesus
told his disciples should be with them always even to the
end of the world. It was this great Mother-principle with
which Jesus identified himself when speaking of Jerusalem
(a symbol of the home of the earthly man). "How often
would I have gathered thy children together, even as a
hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would
not."
Isis gathering the separated parts of the body of Osiris
together has the same meaning; for some day the Great
Mother, the Comforter, will gather all the parts of this great
body of humanity together under her wings and we shall then
become truly one with the Sun God or "that Light which
lighteth everj man that cometh into the world."
1St. M,ttke. XXIII. 37.
DIAGRAM OF THE HIERARCHIES
The 12 pyramidal spaces formed by the lines radiating from the center represent
the 12 Signs of the Zodiac, while the circular space between any two adjacent
Concentric circles represents the field of action of an Hierarchy with its many
ruling forces. All Hierarchies, as they encircle the Center, thus operate in all the
12 Signs.
CHAPTER XXXIII
The Number 17. TUE CELESTIAl. HIESA1cHras
"The whole order of Nature evinces a progressive
march towards a higher life. There is design in the
action of the seemingly blindest forces. The whole
process of evolution with its endless adaptations, is
a proof of this."The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, I,
29&
What is an Hierarchy? The word is made up of hieras,
sacred, and arc/to, to govern, and according to The Standard
Dictionary means "a body of Ecclesiastical Rulers called An-
gels, Archangels, Princedoms, Powers, Virtues, Dominions,
Thrones, Cherubim and Seraphim, the last Order being near-
est the Trinity." The Planetary Rulers of the Hierarchies are
the Elohim, a plural feminine word translated in the Bible not
in its true and specific meaning, but by the generic and vague
term God. That a plural meaning was intended is clearly evi-
denced in Genesis I, 26, where we read "Let us make man in
our image and after our likeness." We thus see that the doc-
trine of Hierarchies is not merely an Oriental or "heathen" one,
but is well recognized in Christian literature.
In the language of mysticism the term Hierarchies refers to
the seven sacred Powers or entitized Creative Forces of the
Cosmos which govern all the kingdoms of the macrocosm and
which manifest in all the 12 divisions of the Celestial zodiac.
This can be roughly illustrated if we draw a zodiac with its
12 houses, then draw 7 concentric rings around the center, all
the space between any two adjacent concentric circles, from
center to circumference, represents an Hierarchy and indicates
the field of action of many ruling forces, all, however, subject to
the Planetary Ruler of the house in which a certain Planet is said
to have either its throne or its decline (see Diagram opposite).
Thus we find planetary influences not only affecting man, but
all the kingdoms. At the very center is what we call God or
the Great Creative Intelligence, ruler over all. Hence it is
quite right to say that God is within, since all evolution pro-
233
234 The Key of Destiny
ceeds from within outward. "The Universe is worked and
guided from within outwards. As above so it is below, as in
heaven so on earth; and man, the microcosm and miniature
copy of the macrocosm, is the living witness to the Universal
Law. . . - As no outward motion or change, when normal,
in man's external body, can take place unless provoked by an
inward impulse, . - so with the external or manifested
Universe."
God is also above, hence we are quite right in saying we
"look up to God," for man's place is on the circumference of
the circle with his head towards the center, hence he must
look up to God and also look within the center both of himself,
as the microcosm where God is reflected, and of the Cosmos.
Man's body might be called an Hierarchy ruled over by his
Higher Mind, yet every different organ or extremity has an
independent ruler or center of consciousness and every cell of
the body its nucleus which is its ruler. All, however, are sub-
servient to the higher ruler, the Divine Ego, who in turn must
be obedient to the Infinite. Thus we see that an Hierarchy
would include man as its highest subdivision on the plane of
outer manifestation, yet it would pass through every lcingdom
of nature from center to circumference. And each kingdom
manifests in each subdivision of the 12 houses, hence comes
under the zodiacal influence of each sign and also obeys
the laws of its Hierarchy. Since man stands at a point
where he can hear the word of command and respond to the
guidance of the higher Ruler he can pass that command and
guidance down to the kingdoms below him, hence is capable of
becoming a mighty factor toward enforcing obedience and
bringing harmony and brotherhood throughout all the divisions
of the Hierarchy. "Man, being a compound of the essences of
all these celestial Hierarchies, may succeed in making himself,
as such, superior, in one sense, to any Hierarchy or Class, or
even combination of them." 2
iTk. Secret Doctn*e, Blavatsicy. 1. 295.
Z TIs. Secret Doctyjue. Blavataky. 1 297.
The Celestial Hierarchies 235
When man has reached the seventeenth step he has begun
to manifest in his body that which was meant by "the word
made flesh." Having reached this definite point in evolution,
the Wordjust as when uttered over the chaotic darkness of
this planetwhich has gone on unceasingly vibrating through
all the kingdoms, creating, preserving and destroying, has
reached man, has been made flesh in him and differentiated
into consecutive thought which can be expressed in words.
And because he has reached this point where his intellect has
become a foundation, i. e., a rock upon which he can build a
definite structure of thought, at this point it may be called
"the Foundation of Excellence" for now he knows, because
he has experienced and proved; and he has chosen of his own
free-will to be a creator of harmony, rather than permit his
intellectual powers to build up false structures destined to fall
and bury him in their ruins. In the lower kingdoms "God
spake the word and they were made," hence had to obey
blindly that evolutionary impulse, but man, being made in
God's image, must speak the Word for himself and see that all
his bodies, faculties and kingdoms obey it.
He now knows that he alone is the ruler of his world, and
has chosen to work with those Great Powers with whom he
has consciously allied himself. He has turned away from the
egotistic and ignorant worship of his own intellect, and hav-
ing learned its power, when wrongfully used, to impress all
the kingdoms below him with antagonism, disease and death,
by the vibrations of his thought and speech he now consciously
impresses all the lower kingdoms for good. Moreover this
has now come to be recognized by him as a duty he owes to
the lower kingdoms because "He made man to rule over
them." In short, man at this step must begin to manifest the
power of the Word to rule the lower kingdoms.
The Creative Word flows like a life-stream, the vibrations
of which are guided and directed by Conscious Intelligences;
for all the powers of nature are expressions of the Word of
God; all things are obeying, in mystic language, the rhythmic
286 The Key of Destiny
Law of the Creative Word. This Word is composed of four
syllables, sound, number, color and form. Everything in nature
has its voice which speaks in tones so positive it cannot mislead
one who has learned its language. 3 Only when creation has
reached man, who being the micrososm has within his own
body all the elements found in the macrocosm, can the Vord
be reproduced through spoken language. Hence when man has
reached 17 he takes his place as a co-worker with these Con-
scious Intelligences which have been called the "Army of the
Voice," all working in harmony, each obeying the will of God
and co-ordinating as a mighty Army to bring to perfection
through evolution all things that are upon this planet.
The "Army of the Voice" penetrates all the TTierarchie, in
fact it is the deep mystery of sound (vibration), the second
syllable of the creative Word. Thus while man alone of all
creatures has the power to use his voice to translate thought
into articulate words, nevertheless this mighty army of sound
runs through all the kingdoms. "Day unto day uttereth speech,
and night unto night sheweth knowledge. There is no speech
nor language where their voice is not heard."
Everything has a voice and a rate of vibration, for there are
sounds both above and below man's power to hear.5 Man
by his use of words and by the modulations of the tones of
his voice literally sends out sound waves which go on and on
in never ending vibrations, either lending to the inarticulate
sounds of creation the power to raise the vibrations of their
key-note, hence evolve a little more harmoniously with the
mighty key-note of the Divine Harmony sounded by the Ruler
of their Hierarchy; or he helps to make the sounds more in-
harmonious and destructive. And as the whole object of
evolution is to evolve and redeem every atom of this planet,
man will never complete his task until he has found for him-
S The Voice of liw Cortisi, Chap. XXVIII.
4 P,dms XIX, 2.3-4'.
5'An organ recently installed in Lowell, Mass., can produce a tone an octave
lower than has ever been known before. it is described as a mighty atmospheric
throb of awesome majesty, and scientists declare that it must be rather felt than
beard."
The Celestial Hierarchies 237
self the Divine Harmony of the Hierarchy to which he be-
longs. He must then impress this harmonious force of love
and perfection on everything within his environment, begin-
ning with his own body, but including every kingdom of ani-
mal, plant, mineral or particle of matter that he can touch by
his thought waves. Thus 17 in its fullest sense is 1 (God),
and 7 (Perfection) in man blended to help on 8, the evolution
of the planet. Number 1 is the Sun in its positive aspect and
number 7 the Moon, while number 8 (1+7=8) is Saturn the
Great Initiator. Number 1 is related to creative thought and
number 7 to feeling, especially the feeling of mother-love,
that which gives of itself to bring forth, while number 8
relates to Justice.
Apollonius calls number 17 the eighth hour and names it
"The Star of the Magi," designating it as "The Astral virtues
of the elements, of seed of every kind." The disciple reaching
this eighth hour has, according to Apollonius, ended his task,
or he has reached the region of principle, and life becomes
clear. He has gained his power and all further outward ad-
vance will belong to a future world-period, for if at this step
he uses the power, which is the guerdon of his own Soul's
travail, to become a co-worker with the great Planetary Deities
to help on the evolution of the Planet, he will go on in the
work advancing inwardly, and at each new day of planetary
existence will help to form the earth for more advanced
attainment, until ultimately he will be absorbed in the glorious
splendor of the Central Sun and go no more out therefrom.
Many advanced Souls are already responding to this cosmic
Urge to Redemption and Perfection in their efforts to improve
the plants and animals man uses for food, purifying them from
disease and uplifting them in the scale of evolution. This is
a necessary preparation for the coming sixth sub-race children,
for they will be so sensitive to inharmony, impurity and disease
that if such a child were given an apple with a worm in it he
would immediately take on the conditions which the worm
manifests, hence would be poisoned by its emanations if he ate
238 The Key of Destiny
the apple, even if all trace of the worm had been carefully cut
out. Therefore there must be new and finer kinds of food
developed.
While each of these "hours" takes but a few words to ex-
press, each of them may take years, centuries and often lives to
attain. How few there be who even pass the first step, or ac-
cording to Apollonius, hold the vigil of the first hour! But let no
one despair, for nothing is lost. That which we conquer today,
be it ever so little, will never assail us again. To begin, if we
be in earnest, we have to take the Sphinx as our emblem and
study well its lessons, seeking for spiritual, moral and intel-
lectual supremacy, looking for. no miraculous tests but content
to take the tests as well as the tasks of our daily life and out
of the material in the environment in which we find ourselves
build in cell by cell the new perfected spiritual body which shall
some day be dothed in the glorious splendor of the Holy Ghost.
CHAPTER XXXW.
The Seventeenth Letter P ()
"He produced Pe, and referred it to Power; He
crowned it, combined and formed with it Mercury in
the Universe, the fifth day of the week, and left ear
of man."Sepher Yetzirah, 22.
The seventeenth letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Fe (P), t
double letter which corresponds astronomically to the planet
Mercury whose double qualities are power and servitude. Mer-
cury is called the Messenger of the Gods and is the planet of
"thought" permanently in its creative aspect, for like Mercury
thought is the Messenger of the Gods, yet it can sink low or
climb high and can travel faster than the wind. Mercury is
also the messenger of man's thoughts to the kingdoms below
him.
The Greeks represented the god Mercury as a beautiful
youth in the attitude of flight, poised on one foot, while
Boreas is blowing him out of his mouth. He has wings on his
head, symbolizing the power of thought to lift the intellect
above the earth, to fly up to heaven and to carry man's aspira-
tions to the Gods. But he also has wings on his heels, indicat-
ing the exceeding swiftness of thought to "put a girdle round
the world," also to carry man's thoughts over all the earth
that man's impress shall be stamped on all the kingdoms below
him. Hence just as the letter P has its hard and soft sound,
Mercury or the thoughts of man become either a clothing of
righteousness or a cloak of darkness effectually hiding from
him the higher Divine Understanding. Alas for Mercury if
the wings upon his heels are permitted to grow overlarge while
those upon his head atrophy!
The letter P is called the paternal letter, and its form is
very suggestive, for it is made up of a circle with a straight
line, th 1 or the One Life, descending from the circle. In this
case the circle while presenting the same meaning as any circle,
has the added meaning of a head or brain. Hence we
239
240 The Key of Destiny
might say that in this letter it is the brain of the divine
Father-in-heavena cypher from an earthly standpoint
because unknownpouring upon humanity through the
straight line all the inscrutable Wisdom contained in the circle.
As we have said elsewhere: "The four PsPerception,
Promptness, Perseverance and Perfectionform the four cor-
ners of the Mental Foundation Stone
"Let us then briefly consider the geometrical design of the
letter P. Originally it was made up of a circlesymbolizing
a sphere of manifestationlifted a little above the earth. In
this case we will call the sphere the mental world or that sphere
of conception which our mentality is capable of entering, grasp-
ing and cognizing. From the circle there reaches down to
earth a perpendicular line or pedestal upon which it rests. In
other words, the letter P is a modification of a circle resting
upon the top of a fixed perpendicular line. This line represents
unity or 1. It also represents the letter I, that conception of
I-am-ness which we must gain by reaching up into the mental
world long ere we are ready to lay our mental foundation stone
and prepare for spiritual illumination. Until we have carved
this fourfold stone and placed it upon its pedestal in the mental
world we have no sure foundation of knowledge upon which
to stand or build.
"First we must have Perception. We speak of using our
powers of sight upon the psychic plane and we call it clairvoy-
ance, but it is not a new sense, nor is it Perception. It is but
the use of sight in the psychic world. Perception is something
quite different from sight. It belongs to the mental world.
For no matter how much we see, either physically, clairvoyantly
or even spiritually, unless we mentally perceive, sight brings
to our consciousness no real meaning or lesson. Perception is
that power to understand, that mental desire to grasp and com-
prehend something which we know exists; something which we
perceive is necessary, but which we have not yet attained. A
prime factor in Perception is attention. We must give atten-
tion to the laws of manifestation in the higher relmc if w
Pt 241.
would perceive and understand the realities of life, the neces-
sity of laying our foundation stone and proceeding with the
Great Work
'When we have awakened our powers of Perception, powers
which not only stir our hearts and fill our lives, but which our
reason has convinced us are necessary to bring forth and make
tangible our ideals, then we must begin work upon the next
corner of our stone, Promptness. Promptness means to do at
once whatever you perceive should be done, even little things.
Let nothing come between you and the thing or duty your
Perception has told you is your next step. This corner in the
life of the novice often takes many years to carve, so hard is
it to overcome habits of dilatoriness. We are so prone, even
when building our spiritual temple, to neglect this corner, to
try to lay our mental stone and leave this corner improperly
squared and fitted. Yet if we do so our structure will fall or
be so weak that we will have to come back and rebuild it later.
Therefore build it while you may, strong and square and per-
fect. Never be so busy, even with that which you consider
important, that you cannot promptly obey the Perception which
your Soul has given to your intellect. If you perceive a duty
to be done, do it now, even if you have to stop something you
prefer to do. There is nothing that disturbs your mental and
psychic poise, whether in your studies, your business or other
affairs of life, as to feel that there, is something hanging over
you, some little thing that you should have done, but which you
have neglected or put off. Such an unfulfilled duty becomes
a pressure or an unrecognized source of irritation in your
mental and psychic life which hampers your perfect accom-
plishment of other duties. -
"Through your lack of Promptness the opportunity to gain
the end you desire often slips from you. You forget or soms
trifling matter or personal inconvenience delays you and later
you find that your project has failed because you have
neglected to obey promptly the Perception of Truth given
you. For instance, you perceive the advantages of study.
242 The Key of Destiny
ing the tenchings of this Order in company with those
whose hearts respond to the same great ideals, the advan-.
tage of coming into the currents of spiritual force for-
ever flowing from its inner center, currents which those
who study together focus upon themselves. You perceive
all this, but some trifling excuse prevents you from acting
upon it. You are too tired, you had company, it was too cold
or too hot, too wet or too windy, and you wish to be excused.
You are like the guests bidden to the feast of which Jesus
speaks. "They all with one consent began to make excuse.
Tfie first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and
I must needs go and see it; I pray thee have me excused. And
another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove
them; I pray thee have me excused. And another said, I have
married a wife, and therefore I cannot come?' Human nature
is still the same. How many fail to fulfill their promises or
follow their perception of duty, yet find time for more con-
genial tasks! Have you no confidence in the love and power
of the great Masters of Wisdom to protect and sustain you
when you would study Their teachings or be about Their busi-
ness? If you have, then prove it. Follow the Perception.
Make the effort. Every positive stand you take builds char-
acter, increases your strength, lifts you out of your negative
state, gives you the power to conquer your weaknesses and
tends to make promptness, courage, resolution and trust habits
which will replace the negative habit of making excuses.
Therefore we declare unto you that after Perception comes
Promptness of action. Follow up every Perception by prompt
execution. Never stop to argue when the Soul speaks. Never
put off a duty until you have more time. You have all the time
there is. Do it now!
"The next corner of the stone you must carve is Persever-
ance. In the journey of the Soul the Great Law urges
everyone to perfect himself. If through lack of Perception
and Promptness we lag behind, how difficult to Persevere!
Through Jack of Promptness we grow negative and lose -
St. Germa
EGYPTIAN TYPE
THE 17TH TAROT CARD
THE STAR
Smith
MODERN TYPE
J[[ES £T5
[a pus MEDIEVAL TYPES Papis
Pt 243
terest. Our Path does not look half so inviting, our duty
half so compelling. The Master's voice grows fainter and
fainter, for we are too far away from Him to hear it dis-
tinctly. His presence does not seem half so tangible, so loving
or so desirable nor His blessing so necessary to our lives.
Ve find a thousand reasons to lag behind, to relax our Per-
severance. We say to ourselves, 'I did so wish to perceive
and learn and progress! I have studied and attended
meetings, yet here I am no more the master of myself and my
life today than I was a year ago!' Of course we are not. We
may even be less a master because we have permitted negative
forces to enter in and hold us back. We have not promptly
obeyed. We have not determinately and doggedly persevered.
Therefore our Perception becomes fainter and the flashes of
intuition and the glory of realization grow farther and farther
apart We have lagged behind. Perseverance is absolutely
necessary to complete the four-fold foundation stone in our
mental world.
"tJntil we have a Perception of the Path and its Goal we
will never start out. If w are not Prompt and Persevering
in putting our Perception into execution it will fade away.
We will forget or become negative and will never carve the
last corner, Perfection. Our stone will not be four-square.
Its corners will not be laid and it will not be ready to build
upon. It will not fit in with the other stones that are being
laid. Hence when the Master Builder comes to inspect our
stone it will be rejected, for it has not the mark of the Master
Builder, Perfection, upon it. Balance up then the corners
and find that which is perfect in the mental world. Per-
fection is attainable to him who Perceives, who is Prompt and
who Perseveres."
THE SEVENTEENTH TAROT CARD.
The Star.
The seventeenth card of the Tarot is called "The Star."
It is pictured as a nude young girl pouring upon the ground
244 The Key of Destiny
water from two vases. The water which she pours from the
vases is the symbol of the Water of Life, the universal solvent.
The two vases or ewers symbolize the positive and negative
vessels through which the Universal Life is expressed in
man and woman. It is the same symbol we found in the
fourteenth card where the Virgin poured the Water of Life
from one vessel to the other, but here she pours it upon the
earth, symbolizing that man must now consciously pour forth
this Life Principle to the lower ldngdoms through the power
of thought, either unexpressed or expressed through sound
(speech), that all the earth may bring forth in harmony.
When man has reached this point in his spiritual unfold-
ment his aura has become so illumined and brilliant that it is
seen by the elementals of all the kingdoms as a brilliant star
which they gladly follow. In short, he has become a Star
or Light Bearer to the lower kingdoms.
CHAPTER XXXV.
The Number 18. TUE SEcoiw INITIATION.
"Now bend thy head and listen well, 0 Bodhi-
sattva. Compassion speaks and saith: 'Can there be
bliss when all that lives must suffer? Shalt thou be
saved and hear the whole world cry?' . . . Thou
art enlightened, choose thy way."TJze Voice of the
Silence, Blavatsky, 75.
Let us first consider the number 18 according to its sep-
arate digits. Here we find 1, the straight and narrow way
and the rod of power or the Magic Wand, standing at the
right hand of the spiral path of physical evolution, number 8.
The most obvious meaning of this number is therefore that
of contrast, i. e., God's way is direct, unswerving, straight,_
true; man's way is evoluted, curved, doubling on itself. But
here in 18 we find this curved line of physical evolution has
accomplished its cycle, passed its first initiation and has taken
the One Life to be the determining factor in all its future
unfoldment. If we take number 18 in its totality of 1 plus 8
it gives us 9, and since the Angel of Revelation measured with
his golden reed "an hundred and forty and four cubits, ac-
cording to the measure of man, that is, of the angel," this
again confirms the idea of number 18 being the Second mi-
tiation (since 144=1_1 4=9 or Initiation) in which the mi-
tiate must measure the walls of his inner life. The word
"angel" means a messenger, here evidently meaning God's
messenger to lesser evolved humanity and to the lower
kingdoms, a Super-man or an Initiate, for man has not
attained "the measure of man" until he has become an
Initiate. In fact, at this step the Disciple has made the
One Life a "golden reed" with which he measures all
things pertaining to his new life. And like the angel spoken
lRevelatwn, xxii, 17. The Hebrew sacred cubit equals 25 "Pyramid inches"
(one five hundred millionth of the earth's axis) by which all planetary
san be exactly measured. tht showing the cubit is a celestial mea.ur
246 The Key of Destiny
of, through the power of this golden reed he sees to it that
his Cityhis life with all its inhabitantsis foursquare
both outer and inner (4+4=8), "the gates (centers) thereof
and the walls thereof." The fact that the length and breadth
and height of his City are equal, being 12,000 (1 I I I 1=12)
furlongs each, is another reference to the completed experi-
ence of the 12 zodiacal signs and their 12 forces. The
3X12=36=9 is the completed Initiation of Matter, the
Triune God manifested in the three dimensional universe. It
should also be noted that 12,000 furlongs equals 7,920,000
feet, which by occult addition = 18=9, and when repeated for
each of the three dimensions gives 23,760,000 feet, which
again gives us 18 or 9.
The Disciple has now grasped the Rod of Power in his
right hand and made of it a staff on which to lean. As he
passes through the Valley of the Shadow of Deaththe point
in number 8 where the curves cross each otherhe can now
say: "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow
of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod
and thy staff they comfort me."2 Leaning upon this Staff
he passes over the dread Valley of Death and carries on his
evolution uninterrupted by physical death. Yet from this point
on he must use his Rod to measure, test and square his outer
life (the walls of his City) with his inner experiences. When
he begins thus both to lean upon the One Life and use it as
a measure for his own life, he cannot but find it is also a Magic
Wand. As he ceases to trust in his own power he finds the
seductions of the senses more and more subject to the divine
inner sense, and with this Magic Wand of trust and righteous..
ness a decision is no longer so difficult to attain and manifest.
Again number 8 is the cirde which we have already found3
be the container of all the potencies out of which the Light
shall bring Perfection, but now twisted or turned upon itself.
The serpent no longer swallows its tail, thus completing its
2 P&aI,p.s, XXII!, 4.
3 The JCe ta Ms Uz.iverss. Cuitiu. 26-54.
The Second Initiation 247
cycle, but writhes and twists in space and out of the contortions
of its writhing it brings forth a perverted image of itself so
that the Light of the Christos or the Dot in the center is par-
tially obliterated by the crossed linesthe cross of crucifixion
hence we call the serpent-for evil, the devil and the
tempter. But in 18 we have seen the vision of the Straight
and Narrow Paththe Dot has unfolded into the 1 and be-
come the axis around which our life turns. At this step the
Initiate has faced this one divine truth and felt the mighty
urge of the One Life. Henceforth he strives to make the
twisted line (8) subservient to the straight line (1) that is
at his right hand. Therefore he struggles no more but fear-
lessly lifts up the writhing serpent and like Aaron makes of
it the Rod of Power, knowing that it must ultimately bring
both equilibrium and balance to himself and to mankind.
Eliphas Levi associates 18 with all that is magical, espe.-
cially the glamour produced by love philters, etc. In this he is
correct, but we differ somewhat in the application. The ideas
expressed in this number are, firstly, that evolution (8) inevit-
ably leads to Initiation (18=9); secondly, the eternal,
immutable fixity of the "One Law of the Good" destined
forever to bring man back, even though to straighten the
twisted line of evolution he must vanquish his last enemy
death, or as it is expressed in Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress,
fill up the Slough of Despond which lies in the midst of the
Valley of the Shadow of Death. Therefore the connection
of this number with magic, glamour and love philters must
be carefully considered.
In number 18 the Initiate has lifted up the Rod of Power,
but has not yet been tested as to the use he makes of it. He
has proved that by it he can perform so-called magic, for he
has done so in his own body. The Magic Wand in his hands
can be used to strike the rock that the Waters of Life may
gush forth to refresh thirsty humanity, fainting in the desert
of life or may be used as sorcery or black magic to enslave
his less evolved brethren. This last, however, can only occur
248 The Key of Destiny
when he becomes the victim of the glamour of his own attain-
ments.
As to love philters, while they have little intrinsic power,
there is more truth in the possibility of their effectiveness than
is often supposed. The major effect produced by such
concoctions is the result of the deliberate Will put into the
words spoken over them by the one preparing them, and
the magnetic force coming from one who has learned how to
make use of this will-power, rather than the ingredients them-
selves, although these may actually stimulate the sex func-
lions. Today the magician generally prefers to work directly
on the aura of the victim rather than through the "hokus
pokus" so effective in the dark ages of ignorance and super-
stition.
According to Eliphas Levi, number 18 is strongly aflinitized
to the subject of sex. And the many vire teachings rife today
bear a close relationship to the medieval dabbling in love
phitters, glamours and black magic; for the seduction of the
senses preeminently includes the perversion of sex and the
waste of the life-forces. Once having strayed from the
Straight and Narrow Way, the Initiate has lost his own power,
hence must depend upon the whims of the incubi of the lower
astral who must be constantly propitiated through the pouring
out of the physical life-force either as blood or as sex-force.
Hence the temptations at this step are fearful. Our protec-
tion lies in a realization that our power comes not from astral
entities who require obedience and propitiation, but from the
divine Christ. Hence at 18 the evolving Soul must lay tight
hold of his Rod of Power, recognizing that it is the One Life
or Christ-force, the ruler and sustainer of all manifestation.
Yet there are still black magicians, those who have reached
18 and have then chosen to pervert their powers. There are
also those whom we will call Brothers of the Shadow, i. e.,
neither deliberately black nor wholly white, who lead mankind
astray either for their own aggrandizement or through an inor-
dinate belief in their own judgment, believing since they know
The Second initiation 249
more than others they have the right to compel others to follow
and obey them. Their life may be centered in the One
Divine Life and they may think they use the Rod of Power
only to help and uplift, but they insist upon absolute allegiance
to them or to their way of thinking, having fanatically argued
themselves into the belief that their way is the best way for
alL But just as the black magician can only harm one who
is aflinitized in some way to him and who deliberately opens
his heart to the glamour thrown over him, so the Brothers
of the Shadow can only lead astray such Souls as desire
adulation, pomp and show of power rather than Divine Truth;
who are easily flattered and led on by specious promises
always about to be fulfilled; also those who are seeking a
justification for unlawful indulgence in some form of satis-
faction or desire, hence welcome anyone who under the guise
of spiritual teachings will give them an excuse for breaking
the law of God and man. To make 18 a true symbol of black
magic, however, the 1 would have to be dominated by the 8
or the crooked path cast its shadow over the Straight and
Narrow Path so as to make it difficult to see.
The world today is working out its misuse of the power
given to money, there being quite a similarity between 18 and
the dollar mark $. Money should be used as a blessing for
all mankind instead of being a curse; for neither money nor
the possession of other forms of wealth is evil in itself. It is
evil only in the use made of it and in the power given to it by
considering the money value of an object or idea the highest
standard by which it is measured. In the coming New Age
money value as a standard must give way to the standard of
service or usefulness to the general good. Because of -the
resemblance of the $ to number 18 it suggests the idea that
we can never outgrow the curse of money until we learn to
make of it an 18, i.e., until we use it as a Rod of Power with
which to help on all evolution.
Many altruistic and spiritually advanced persons are suffer-
ing today from a lack of money with which to help humanity
250 The Key of Destiny
because of their misuse of it in past incarnations. In those
days, through mistaken teachings as to the uses and obligations
of wealth, those who aspired to spiritual development turned
their backs upon the wealth which the Great Law had placed
in their hands to administer for the best good of the com
munity, and taking vows of poverty either turned their wealth
over to the Church or left it in the hands of those who were
neither unselfish nor spiritually advanced enough to be guided
through inspiration as to its proper and most helpful adminis-
tration. Today such persons find themselves possessed of all
the spiritual development which resulted from their unselfish-
ness, prayers, devotion and spiritual aspiration, but without
the physical means necessary to put their unselfish ideas into
practice. And they will continue to suffer from lack of funds
until they learn that they must not turn their backs upon any-
thing which the Great Law brings to them, but must administer
it as stewards, that it may accomplish its greatest good for all.
When one has reached 18, having opened the door of power,
he must face the awful accumulation which the misuse of this
power has created through the ages. The very fact of his
reaching this point means that he must now set to work to
redeem the results of this wrong use of power. Hence unless
he be very pure and strongly centered in the White Light of
Truth, if he opens the door but a crack all the pent up forces,
the product of ages of such misuse of power, will sweep in
like a pack of devils and drive him on to his own undoing,
usually into black magic. Also in the majority of cases there
is a personal Karma to be adjusted. Very few pass this step
the first time they essay it; generally it is only after many
failures and bitter experiences that one can pass on in safety.
Therefore instead of condemning those who fail we should
send them the strength of love and sympathy.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
Tite Number 18 (continued)
"Initiation comprises two different but united sec-
tions. The Theory of the resources and necessities
of his enterprise, which the Neophyte always
receives as an inheritance which leaves him absolute
liberty of thought,and Practice in which he exer-
cises, under the direction of his masters, the physical,
intellectual and moral self-control which wilt render
him an Initiate."The Tarot of the Bohemian,,
Papus, 256.
As we explained in number 8, the original presentation of
8 was in a horizontal position ( cxj) in which one circle rep..
resents man, the other woman and when joined they symbolize
a balanced life. To manifest life in its fullness the two circles
must add the straight line or must individually take up the
nd of Power. While number 8 carries the idea of the two
perfect circles touching and working out their evolution to-
gether, only the 1 standing at the right hand of the 8 can
bring them to this Second Initiation. In 8 man and woman
are joined by the senses, in 18 by the One Life. Number 8
in the horizontal position is called the symbol of life, 1. e.,
that which has brought forth all life, or evolution. But while
the 8 unopened is a symbol of physical life, each circle must
eventually be unfolded into 9, i. e., man and woman must
receive their First Initiation individually, but later must
stand upright side by side, as symbolized by the two pillars
of Jakin and Boas, and receive their Second Initiation together
as 9+9=18; for every multiple of 9 brings about an Initia-
tion. This must be accomplished ere either can pass on to
the completion of the cycle and say "I and my Father are
one." Thus standing side by side they have completed the
balance ( ), because each has individually equilibrated the
forces within and together they can go on to the Third
Initiation.
2S1
252 The Key of Destiny
In the Sepher Yetzirah number 18 is referred to equi-
librium and it is called the "Kingdom of the restored
world" or the Bride of the Microprosopus. It also fre-
quently refers to man and woman as the "Book of Con-
cealed Mystery." The deepest mystery given to this planet
to solve is conceded to be the mystery of the equilibrium of
sex that a balanced humanity may result and thus restore
the world to its Edenic purity. "Equilibrium is that harmony
which results from the analogy of contraries. . . It is the liv-
ing synthesis of counterbalanced power. Thus form may be
described as the equilibrium of light and shade; take away
either factor and form is viewless." For the Aspirant there
is a difference between equilibrium and balance; equilibrium
is the equalizing of all the forces in himself, while balance is a
perfect adjustment of the positive and negative forces of twi
perfectly equalized factors at each end of a scale.
Number 18 is the Second Initiation because 8, the number
of Saturn, stands beside and is subservient to the 1, the num-
ber of the positive Sun. The tests of Saturn the Initiator then
are here illumined by the Sun and overcome by the Magic
Wand of the One Life now held in the Initiate's right hand.
Once having passed this Second Initiation, he can go no more
back, although his temptations are great and he may fail
and pervert his powers, for eventually the Sun of his double
Initiation (9+9=18=9) will inevitably bring him to the
third 9. If we have thus blended the Sun and Saturn,
we find Saturn no longer in his malign aspect of the Tester,
but as he appears to one who has passed the Second Initia-
tion, namely, as the Star of the Morning.2 Saturn the grim
skeleton whose path passes over the dread valley, he who
tears from us every earthly thing we have clung to, has
now been fearlessly faced, and as the Initiate looks upon
him he sees the radiance of the Sun illuminating him. Hence-
1Tb. Kabsilak U,iveiled, Mathera, 16.
2See A Mes.ge from Saturn" in 'Rca1ma of the Living head," Curth
The Second Initiation 253
forth glamour has no more power to deceive, even the
glamour of the astral world no longer aifrights or sedus him;
for he has dared to enter it carrying the Rod of Power with
him and has proved to himself his supremacy over it. Hereto-
fore he may have explored its many regions, but always under
the care and guidance of his Master who has shielded him
from all harm. But now he must face the insidious glamour
of flattery, temptation and promised power alone and conquer
by the aid of his Rod. Here he will be tempted to the utmost
and only as he lifts high his Rod can he come off victor Thus
he is able to pass through the Valley of the Shadow of Death
and fear no evil, for just as a valley is a depression between
two mountains, so here the Initiate, having left behind the
height of spiritual exaltation resulting from his balancing of
earth conditions, must pass through this valley ere he is ready
to climb the greater height of Spiritual Attainment beyond.
There are many earnest travellers on this Path who because
they thought they had reached the first stage of Completion
in 10 by the road of celibacy, now find that something was
lacking. They now realize that 18 can only express its full-
ness when the two circles of the 8 stand together as the Book
of Concealed Mystery, now to be opened, read and inwardly
digested. They found it impossible to pass through the Valley
to its further end alone hence must reincarnate in number 11
to learn the vital lesson of cooperation with their comple-
mentary mate. And no matter how objectionable the lesson
is to them, they will reincarnate again and again until they
have laboriously retraveled the Path of Evolution and learned
their lesson. As we saw in our study of number 9, this is
but the straightening out of the curved line in 8. And it is
the Angel of the Great Law, who with the golden reed, is for-
ever measuring, straightening, and calling with love-notes too
persistent to resist: "Come back, come back," who gives to
man that power to accomplish which carries him. through
suffering, hardship and deaths innumerable, yet gives him no
rest until he listens to the Voice and obeys. And it is through
254 The Key of Destiny
this action and reaction of 1 and 8 that man can ultimately
complete the second cycle of 10 and manifest all that 18
stands for.
Many who treat of numbers look upon 18 as wholly evil.
Others label it the Path of the Senses, but from the fore-
going it should be fully understood that it is the Path of the
Purified Senses, under the control of the One Life.
Among the thirty-two Paths of Wisdom, "the Eighteenth
Path is called the House of Influence (by the greatness of
whose abundance the influx of good things upon created
beings is increased), and from the midst of the investigation
the arcana and hidden senses are drawn forth, which dwell in
its shade and which ding to it, from the cause of all causes."8
Kabalistically number 18 is called the Stella of Light, and is
sacred to Mercury.
The symbol of the eighteenth degree of the Rosicroix is
an aquatic bird, sometimes a swan and sometimes a pelican,
but always floating on the waters, as the Spirit or Dove moves
upon the waters of space or the Great Deep in the creation
story. This Swan or Pelican issues periodically from the
waters to give birth to 7 young ones (the seven-fold Elohim).
Later, however, this symbol was represented by a pelican tear-
Ing open her bosom to feed her 7 young, which carries out the
same idea and expresses all that 18 signifIes.
We must also consider 18 from the standpoint of 666 (6+6
+6=18=9), the Number of the Beast, representing the strug-
gle of the Christos or the Great Creative Force we call the
Christ-force (number 6) through the opposition of the three
worlds. In this sense the interpretation is quite different from
that of 18, for 18 represents the individual overcoming his
opposition to the Divine and passing his Second Initiation
and becoming the Super-man, while the summing up of 666
represents all that the Christ must overcome in the three
S Sephe, Yetafr.li 30.
4Th. Ke . the Ui,iver:e. Curtis.. 195
The Second Initiation 255
worlds. This opposition (the Beast) is the controlling power of
this world at the present stage of evolution. It stands black
and terrible, with his mark in every hand or in the forehead,
confronting the Neophyte at each step. The mark in the
hand indicates the power of the Beast to prevent us from
accomplishing except according to its methods, "that no man
might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name
of the beast, or the number of his name." This power we
see exemplified in the business world today. The mark in
the forehead indicates those who cannot think save in the
terms of the Beast, whose very faces proclaim "the shrewd
(avaricious) business man."
While the Beast has been personalized by many writers
and assigned to various persons and institutions which seemed
opposed to true Christianity, and while many such persons and
institutions may have been channels for the expression of the
Beast, they could not have been the Beast itself, for the Beast
includes all the forces which oppose the perfect manifestation
of the Christ, from the mere inertia of matter and the accumu-
lated evil of mankind and evil astral entities, to the conscious
opposition of black magicians and the utterly selfish material-
ists who look upon the principles of the spiritual life as
something opposed to the free indulgence of their desires,
hence work against all spiritual expressions. And since man
reaches his final 9 or Great Initiation only when he has con-
quered all opposition to the Christ within himself, so humanity
and the globe itself will reach their Great Initiation only
when the Christ-force vanquishes the force of the Beast or
manifests without opposition through man and the planet.
In the early days, through the inertia and selfishness of man,
the Beast was allowed to establish his dominion over the earth,
therefore through the conscious efforts of enlightened and
unselfish man must the Beast be vanquished and the reign of
the Christ be established.
18 considered as 6-f-6-J-6 shows plainly that it refers to
the Second Initiation, not of the individual but of humanity.
256 The Key of Destiny
Here we find not only the struggle but the assurance of the
final victory of the Christ-force over the material conditions
and lower creations of the physical, astral and mental worlds.
It is also the number of "Baphomet," the goat of Mendes,5
the image of that mystical and symbolic Beast, which sym-
bolizes the synthesized power of magic, both black and white,
which confronts the Disciple when he reaches his Second
Initiation. Only when we have reached mastery in the three
worlds are we confronted consciously with this Beast, for
only then can there be any real temptation to worship him.
When we hold in our hands the power of the Magician it is
a very real temptation as to how we will use that power. If
we use it to work for or to worship self in any of the three
worlds we fall down and worship the Beast in its aspect of
black magic. But if like Jesus we cry "Get thee behind me
Satan," we see that once we turn away from the black side
and refuse to use our hard-won powers for self, the Beast
becomes a symbol of the conquering Christ or White Magic.
This aspect of the Beast is encountered only by one who has
struggled with the temptations of the three worlds and mas-
tered their forces. Only when not only one Christ-man here
and there has conquered, but a majority of mankind or the
Race at large has said, "Get thee behind me Satan," will the
great question be answered as to which shall rule the three
worlds, Baphomet or the Christ.
In another aspect the Beast is to the world what the animal
soul° is to the individual, not evil in itself but the force of
inertia which the Christ must overcome and make to 'vibrate
in harmonious response. It is all that resists the force of the
Christ-life. In nature it is that force which will turn the
most highly cultivated land back to a wilderness if left to
itself; that will make the most highly gifted and intellectual
man a barbarian if too long separated from the restraining and
5 See Chapter IX.
S See The ICey to the Uiverze. Curti,i. 259.
The Second Initiation 257
also stimulating forces of civilization; that will make a body
ferment, putrify and ultimately disintegrate once the divine
Spark of Life has left it. It is the natural brutishness of man
which expresses as Bolshevism and anarchy once he refuses
to obey the Voice of the Divine Guidance or lets go the guiding
thread of life (conscience) which would lead him out of the
labyrinth of inharmonious physical conditions through the
path of law and order.
Although this force is not evil in itself, being but a lack
of response to the higher, it becomes evil when man, who
should work with the One Life in its mission of redemption,
uses his powers to mould this inert and negative phase of life
to pander to his lower passions and desires or give expression
to the Beast in him. Hence "those who receive the Number
of the Beast in their hands" are those who are either actively
or supinely working with the forces of nature which tend to
interfere with the harmonious manifestations of life on the
planet. Only the manifestation of the Christ-principle can hold
this earth "in the hollow of his hand" and mould from it a
perfected theater for perfected man's further evolution.
The Beast is also the primitive force of matter, restless and
ill at case and tending ever toward disruption; each separate
atom seeking to manifest its own form of life at the expense
of the rest, as seen in cancerJ It is Chaos before it is in-
formed by the Light of the One Life and started on its evo-
lution toward Cosmos. This force is always striving with
the Creative Force (the Christ), struggling to go back to the
nothingness from which it emerged. Hence we call number
6 the Christ-force struggling in matter and 666 the inertia
and opposition which the Christ must overcome in the three
worlds. In Revelation (xiii-18) we read "Here is wisdom.
Let him that bath understanding count the Number of the
Beast; for it is the number of a man." This verse refers
to animal man while he is yet in the stage of unfoldment
symbolized by the 666 or when the Christ in him is still strug.
T See sage 21.
258 The Key of Destiny
gling with ignorance, indifference and the sway of the animal
instincts by which he is ruled in that stage, while 144 is "the
number of a Man," the Super-man who has mastered and
become the Angel.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
The Eighteenth Letter. TZADDX ()
'The Eighteenth Path is called the House of In-
fluence (by the greatness of whose abundance the
influx of good things upon created beings is in-
creased), and from the midst of the investigation
the arcana and hidden sense are drawn forth, which
dwell in its shade and which cling to it, from the
cause of all causes."Sepher ¥etirah, 30.
"He produced Tzaddi, predominant in taste,
crowned it. combined and formed with it, Aquarius
in the Year and the gullet of man.".Sepher Yet-
rirah 25.
The eighteenth letter is Tzaddi (TZ). It is a simple letter
and corresponds to the sign Aquarius. Its meaning is a fish-
hook But the fish-hook here spoken of has a mystical mean-
ing, i. e., it is the hook by which the Initiate must pull Levia-
than out of the sea or the power bestowed by Jesus on his
Disciples who were fishermen, to enable them to become
fishers of men. The idea is similar to that given in the ninth
letter, namely, that of a definite step in evolution, a place of
protection, also a Naga, a Serpent or Wise Man. In occult
numeration it is always the ultimate digit which completes the
meaning of a letter and in 18 that digit is 9. We also find
that the Kaballah gives the numerical value of 18 as 90, but
it must be remembered that kabalistically ciphers do not change
the numerical significance of a letter but simply mark its
expansion into a higher octave, or lift its value into a new
step of development. They also refer to periods of time, tens
always referring to periods of evolution, while hundreds refer
to prophecies or to future events. Therefore 18 considered
as 90 would represent the accomplishment of all that 9 con-
tained, but with the cycle of 10 added, while 1800 would
point to a future evolution in which these same powers would
be greatly multiplied.
The particular meaning generally given Tzcddi is that of
an aim or an end. For instance, placed at the beginning of a
259
260 The Key of Destiny
word it signifies the movement which will lead to a desired
end. But if placed at the end of a word it marks the end
itself or indicates that the aim has been accomplished.
It is referred to the gullet of man in that it performs spirit-
ually for man what the gullet does materially, i. e., carries
the food to the stomach to be digested after it is masticated.
THE EIGHTEENTH TAROT CARD.
The Moon.
The eighteenth card of the Tarot is called The Moon. Here
we have the picture of a meadow faintly lighted by the Moon,
symbol of intuition. The light of the Sun no longer shines
directly but is reflected in the Moon. The meadow is bounded
by a tower on either side, while a path winding up bill loses
itself in the distance. A dog and a wolf are howling at the
Moon and a crawfish is trying to crawl out of the water.
Drops of blood are raining down from the Moon upon the
dreary path.
This card indicates the turning point. The Initiate has
here let go the guiding hand of his Guru, who would symbolize
the direct sunlight, and henceforth must walk the Path lighted
only by the Moon, his own intuition. The towers between
which he must go are mighty strongholds, on the one hand
the Tower of Ambition and Black Magic, whose snares and
glamours are spread for his feet; on the other band the Tower
of Discouragement and faintheartedness whose battlements
are armed by Giant Despair and amidst whose swift flying
arrows he must wend his way. The drops of blood symbolize
the spiritual blood or as The Voice of the Silence calls it, "the
blood of the heart" which must bathe the feet (understand-
ing) of every Aspirant who walks this Path. He must learn
to listen to the Voice of Intuition (Moon) and even though
he seemingly walks alone, must know the Voice of God speak-
ing to him from within. The Rod of Power is in his right
hand, for with man's recognition of it the Spirit has begun its
conscious evolution through matter. The Ught of the Great
Papr4
THE 18TH TAROT CARD
THE MOON
LAy LIJNE
THE MOON.
-.
LUNE
St. Germai Smith
EGYPTIAN TYPE MODERN TYPE
MEDIEVAL TYPES Pa pus
Tzaddi 261
Central Sun has reflected itself upon the Moon so that this
orb of night can still give light to his feet, and he knows he
walks in the Divine Light because he finds it reflected within
him.
The dog symbolizes a friend who, being servile, cringes and
flatters and bays at the light of truth, yet is ready to attack
at a moment's notice. The wolf is his own animal nature,
subdued but not domesticated. The point on the Path of
Attainment symbolized by this card is where the Initiate must
descend into hell, whose Threshold is guarded by the three-
headed dog Cerberus.' One aspect of this hell represents the
confusion, opposition and antagonism into which the Initiate
must descend as he begins to withdraw from his former activ-
ities in the world. From this point of view the first head of
the dog represents the tendency of the world to bark at, ridi-
cule and bite every one who takes this important step. - The
second head represents servile devotion to home, house-
keeping, family duties, business affairs or any other
thing of a purely worldly nature when it is permitted to
check the Soul's ongoiiig. The third head represents all hard,
preconceived and limited understandings of truth which insist
upon truth being interpreted according to certain set rules
and laws, which at this point confronts and tempts the Initiate
to consider that the particular experiences he has passed
through must be experienced by all. Since they have been
his means of advance he is tempted to assert that his way
is the only way. As we step across the portal of our higher
life we find many saying: "Are not these traits admirable
and are not the tasks of the outer life necessary?" They are
indeed, yet like Hercules we must bring Cerberus up out of
the lower life and without using weapons, i. e., without killing
out any of these animal traits, must make him follow at heel
and submit to a new master, our True Self, instead of Pluto
the god of the lower regions.
'See pagee 102.4.
262 The Key of Destiny
The crab is a symbol of the Great Mother (Cancerthe
breasts) and in this card we find it just emerging from the
water (sea of humanity, also the great deep of ignorance). As
the eighteenth card corresponds with the zodiacal sign Aqua-
rius, and as the Aquarian Age, into which humanity has
recently entered, is the Woman's Age, that which is sym-
bolized by the crab woman, motherhood, et ceteramust
emerge from the sea of ignorance and illusion and take its
true place in the world. We also find that the true Aquarian
should be one who has reached 18 or who has perfected his
Initiation on the physical plane; who has imbibed sufficient
nourishment from the breasts of the Great Mother to sustain
him on hh lonely way; who is now ready to step out from the
sea of humanity as more than man and with his Staff in hand
tread the Path of 18, the Second Initiation. At this point
only too often the Great Mother-love seems to be immersed
in the waters or only just crawling out of them. Now he is
treading the Path alone through showers of blood, but later he
will see the Mother as the Holy Ghost, the Comforter. Then
lie will lift the jar of water and pour it forth for humanity and
for the world and go on his way rejoicing.
The Aquarian has only now awakened to the fact that the
Path of the Senses is the path of bloody sacrifice; that the
Moon drips blood; that the wolf and dog dispute his ongoing.
But the true Aquarian is the Captain of the Host. He has the
strength of Hercules to bring Cerberus out of the lower re-
gions and make him a faithful friend to guard his ongoing,
while the wolf he will drive back into its own place of mani-
festation and hold it in leash.
Another meaning given by Papus to this card is "Chaos." But
it is Chaos as it begins to fall away at the word of conunand
given by the awakened Soul through the force of the Creative
Light. While it is the end or final point of the Divine Material-
ization, as Papus puts it, yet we would rather hold to the idea
that it is the beginning of redemption; in fact it is the turning
Doint in evolution. The Path of the Senses winds back and
Tzaddi 263
forth around the Straight and Narrow Way of Divine Realiza-
tion, and at 18 the Initiate, like Hercules, has found his
strength and has seized the Rod of Power and started out in
earnest to perform the 12 tasks which constitute his Initiation
or to correlate with and master the 12 signs of the zodiac with
their forces. Then indeed he becomes the Captain to lead
rather than a slave to follow. -
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
The Number 19. TuE NUMBER OF THE SUN.
"The Nineteenth Path is the Intelligence of all the
activities of the spiritual beings, and is so called be-
cause of the affluence diffused by it from the most
high blessing and most exalted sublime glory."-
SefJ&er Yetiroh, 30.
"Everyone who has any idea of the ancient Egyp.
tian exoteric faith is quite aware that for the multi-
tudes Osiris was the Sun in Heaven, 'the Heavenly
King'. . . that by the Greeks the Sun was called
the 'Eye of Jupiter, as for the modern orthodox
Parsi he is the 'Eye of Ormuzd'; that the Sun,
moreover, was addressed as the 'All-seeing God.'"
The Secret Doctrine, Blavatsky, iii, 278.
Number 19 is the number of Ultimate Attainment both as
19 and as 1+9=10. As number 19 it is associated in all
mythology and legends with the Sun. And every nation of
antiquity which has in any way represented this number has
connected it with the Great Spiritual Sun, while in the Mys.
teries, number 18 brings the Candidate to the Mastery of the
Sun, 1. e., the vital energies and magnetic forces which in
nature are focused in the physical Sun.
In the spiritual life of the Initiate the step symbolized by
19 is nothing less than the understanding of, correlating
with, and complete mastery and control of the correspond-
ing forces from the Spiritual Sun acting in himself and the
world. Here the Initiate must stand firm and strong in the
full knowledge of his elevation and the powers he has attained.
Here in perfect yet not abject humility he must prepare for a
still higher climb. As 19 equals 1+9=10, it of course repre-
sents the completion of a great cycle of the One Life which
now has been tried and tested and which finds its culmination
in the great Sun (fire) Initiation. One who has attained
to number 19 becomes a Sun Initiate, a Great Light ready to
accomplish for the world and humanity on the inner planes
that which is comparable to the work which the Sun accom
214
The Number of the Sun 265
plishes for the earth, 1. c., give light, warmth (love) and in-
spiration; to quicken the seeds of good that they may grow
in mankind and bring forth fruit; to quicken the process of
fermentation, and by the fire of intense love and purity trans-
mute the evil emanations of corruption and putrefaction, the
disintegration of evil, into higher and constructive manifesta-
tions of life; to bring to mankind the vital energy of spiritual
life, ultimate peace, harmony, happiness and fruitfulness;
in fact, to bring good out of evil.
Although throughout the ages many have reached this point,
comparatively few have been able to withstand its awful
temptatjons. Those who conquer become the Masters of the
Great White Lodge, while those who fail become the Masters
of the black or Left-hand Paththe Brothers of the Shadow
being far below this pointfor ere this point is reached each
must deliberately have chosen his Path as Super-man. - Here
they find awaiting them that residue of the unredeemed Karma
of past lives which up to this point they have not had the
power to redeem. And often they return and perhaps
spend incarnation after incarnation before this Gate until
they finally conquer. Then they reach number 19, at
which step they perfect the lessons learned by all the experi-
ences passed through. Hence there are but few in each Age
who reach 19.
It is therefore rightly called the Fruit of Ages. It is said
that when one Soul reaches this step the whole earth thrills
with joy, and henceforth he is one of the Twice-born. "Behold
the mellow light that floods the Eastern sky. In signs of praise
both heaven and earth unite. And from the four-fold mani-
fested Powers a chant of love ariseth, both from the flaming
Fire and flowing Water, and from sweet-smelling Earth and
rushing Wind. . . All Nature's wordless voice in thousand
tones ariseth to proclaim. Joy unto Ye. . . A Pilgrim haflz
returned bock from the other shore. A new Arhan is born."
1 The Voice .1 the Sileiice. BL.r&gky. 76-77.
266 The Key of Destiny
The following are the various interpretations of number 19,
Master of the Sun; Wisdom; Great Light; Vital Energy;
Magnetism; Joy; Happiness; Strength; Success; Honor;
Elevation and Attainment. We also find much mystic lore and
so-called superstition connected with the number 19. Among
the many trinkets found in Egyptian tombs there is a chain
with 19 links completed by an oval amulet or vignette of
Osiris, the links being composed of 19 scarabs. Osiris was
both the Sun God and the God of the Nether World, in
reality the Sun when it has sunk below the horizon, yet still
a god and in no way dimmed in his glory, while Ra is the
Sun in the day time. Therefore the Egyptians always asso-
ciated Osiris with Initiation. He was the Great Initiate into
whose care the departing Soul was given and who later was
to become identified with him; for every Soul who passed the
Initiation or completed number 19 was called Osiris.
There is a cycle of nineteen years called the "Metonic Cycle"
which even by modern astronomers is considered of great
importance. In it according to Metonic cycles there are 235
lunations (2+3+5=10) embracing approximately 6939
(6+9+3+9=27=9) days. Modern astronomical computa-
tions of the 19 solar years also make it approximately 6939
days. But all agree as to the importance of this 19 year cyde.
Since the fifth century B. C. it has been noted by astronomers
that an eclipse of the Sun occurs in the same longitude at
intervals of 19 years, these eclipses being looked upon as of
great value in predicting physical phenomena.
The term Hyperborean Land or White Island was a term
applied to the continent occupied by the Second or Hyper-
borean Race which was situated in what is now the polar
regions. Later this term was applied to England (including
Ireland and Wales) which was also known as Albionmean-
big whitebecause of the sacred college of Druids or Sun
Initiates established there. Thus Druidic terms and names
are often confused with the names in the ancient legends of
The Number of the Sun 261
the Sun, such as the Story of Latona, the mother of Apollo
the Sun.
Latona represents the polar region and the night, and is
said to have been born in the Hybçrborean land (now
applied to the north polar regions but once an inbabitated
land) wherein all the inhabitants were priests of Apollo. These
priests celebrated the descent of Apollo the Sun to their
country every 19 years. This would coincide with an eclipse
of the Sun. But Latona represented the Hyperborean or
White Island from which the Sun or the illumination of spirit-
ual understanding was given to the Race. The legend relates
that Latona, after giving birth to her son, was driven out of her
country under punishment of the gods, and the only place of
refuge she could find was on the Island of Delos which was
chained to the bottom of the sea until Jove in pity permitted
it to rise above the waters. This points to its true symbõlogy,
for the true Wisdom Religion, symbolized by the Sun-worship
before it became degraded, was given to the Second Race,
hence the son of Latona was born in the Hyperborean land,
although not where the North Pole is today. That which they
called "the punishment of the gods" by which Latona was
driven out of her country, was the change in the axis of the
earth after which the polar regions became the uninhabitable
land of the frozen North. Delos, the island chained to the
bottom of the sea, points to a land that was formed at first
by small islands rising out of the ocean. The meaning of Delos
is "Island of Delight," the esoteric meaning of which is the
spiritual ecstasy which is always chained or imprisoned in the
depths of the sea of humanity until Jovethe Light of Sun
Initiationsets it free and it rises to the surface in the con-
sciousness of the Initiate. Physically and geographically at
the time of the sinking of Atlantis, "The island of Delos, the
Asteria of Greek Mythologý, was never in Greece, for this
country in that day was not yet in existence, not even in its
molecular form. Several writers have shown that it renre
268 The Key of Destiny
sented a country or an island far greater than the small dots
of land which became Greece."2
Pythagoras considers 19 as the denary or the 10 and the
triad multiplied by itself (3X3=9+l0=19). Having consid-
ered3 the meaning of 10 and also considered 9 as 3x3=9, we
can well agree with the Pythagorian interpretation that 19
represents Wisdom in its application to the Absolute. We
can also agree with Eliphas Levi when he attributes 19 to
the Great Work by building a highway from the Infinite to
the Absolute; in fact, Levi makes of number 19 the Philoso-
pher's Stone. We again agree, considering the Philosopher's
Stone not in its literal but in its symbolical aspect. For 19
is the strong stone or Rock of Wisdom (Petros) upon which
Rock the Church of God must be built. Like the Philosopher's
Stone it is both one and many. In its analysis it is a powder
and in its synthesis a stone; for it is the true God-given Wis-
dom which includes intuition and illumination and which mani-
fests in the heart and life of the Sun Initiate yet is all summed
up in the Absolute Wisdom of Divine Truth. Like a fine
powder it covers every phase of life, yet when gathered by
the sage and synthesized it becomes a great Rock of Truth
against which the waves of ignorance, superstition and bigotry
beat in vain. Says Ehiphas Levi: "The Philosopher's Stone,
say the Masters, must not be exposed to the air, nor to the
eyes of the profane; it must be kept in concealment and pre-
served carefully in the most secret receptacle of the laboratory.
He who possesses the great arcanum is truly King and
is above any King, for he is inaccessible to all fears and to all
vain hopes. In any malady of soul or body, a single .fragment
broken from the precious stone, a single grain of the divine
power, are more than sufficient for their cure."4
All the chemical elements composing the Philosopher's Stone
found in the universe, are also to be found in the body of man,
2 The Secret Doctvi*e, Blavat4cy. 11. 817.
3Tke Key to ike U,,svevse, Curtise.
4Trazsscei,dewtal U.gw. Levi, 347.
The Number of the Sun 269
even in their literal sense, that is, as chemical elements. But as
long as these elements are separated and scattered the stone
is said to be in a powder which is blown hither and thither by
every wind of desire. Only when the Initiate lays hold on
Wisdom and controls the breath in his own body, can he find
all these elements. Through the control of the breath in his
body he can ultimately correlate with and control the winds
of the Cosmos, so that it shall be said of him as of Jesus:
"\Vhat manner of man is this, that even the winds and the
sea obey him I" Even though they are scattered as a fine
powder, the gathering of these grains of Wisdom is the first
alchemical step for one who seeks after Wisdom, for Wisdom
is made up of many little things (powder) through the con-
quering of which he builds the Philosopher's Stone. So shall
be gather this powder step by step, cement its particles with
the Elixir of Lifewith love, devotion and persistenceuntil
he reaches the nineteenth step where all shall emerge from the
retort of life's experiences as a bright and shining Stone. He
will then have accomplished the Great Work and gained the
Mastery of the Sun. "Wisdom resteth in the heart of him
that hath unta5
Again the Philosopher's Stone is man and woman sublimed
and transfused by the mystical union of spiritual forces and
not merely sexual union; for there are energies and forces
on all planes to sublime and transmute crc it is possible for
them truly to become the Philosopher's Stone.
The Hermetic Philosophers declare that in the making of
this stone there are two essential laws which balance, one
against the other, for the stone can be produced only by the
universal equilibrium of forces. These two laws are fixity and
motion. A11 that which in its nature tends toward control,
rest and immobility is called feminine and fixed. Hence a
true woman should be the fixed principle, that is, she should
be serene, poised, quiet, free from fear and fixed in faith
5 Proverb:. xiv. 33.
270 The Key of Destiny
upon the divine overshadowing mother-love which is the
crown of womanhood. Man stands for the volatile or the
principle of motion and activity. He should be always the
active, moving power in all things, while woman should be
the inspirer. Man is the executive whose active brain gathers
the inspiration of the woman and translates it into under-
standing, ready to be manifested as accomplishment. On the
other hand, woman should be the intuitive heart that weighs,
ponders and decides on that which man gathers from the
outer world.
But the philosophers tell us that to make this stone the fixed
must become the volatile, and the volatile become fixed. From
this paradox we can see that both man and woman must con-
cede to each other the power of entering the other's sphere
of action; that is, the man must cultivate all the feminine
virtues of love, sympathy, restfulness, quiet power, intuition
and synthesis, while woman must cultivate the masculine
qualities of will, courage, judgment and activity of mind.
Each must become the complement of the other, combined in
the retort of life to produce a new substance. They must
stand together through all the vicissitudes and changes that
are needed to harmonize, combine and transmute each into
pure gold and both into the one Philosopher's Stone on which
the Great Temple of the New Age can be built, with love as
the Universal Medicine or Elixir of Life.
We can now understand what is indicated by the Nine-
teenth Path as set forth in the Sepher Yetzirah, namely, "the
Intelligence of all the activities of the spiritual beings ;" for we
have seen that 19 represents the blending of all the positive
and negative activities. First it is the gathering together of
the forces produced in the mind of man by all his experiences
in the outer world; the efforts he has made to rule himself
and the experiences of his faculties and the wisdom resulting
therefrom; for Wisdom is not an accumulated knowledge of
things, but is the result of understanding the experiences
gained from tbe things accomplished and the mistakes made.
The Number of the Sun 271
Wisdom is also gained by observing and studying others
and learning from their experiences. Exactly as the Philoso-
pher's Stone is said to be produced from powder (fine dust)
so is Wisdom gained by the coalescence of the fine grains of
experience.
Kabalistically 19 is called the Luna Flame, and is sacred to
the moon. This sounds like a contradiction, but it is not; for
the Luna Flame is the force of the Sun which has given its
light to the moon. Hence 19 is the Flame of the Spiritual
Sun which has given its light to man as Wisdom. And only
as the Spiritual Sun is reflected in him can he show forth
his Spiritual Light.
CHAPTER XXXIX.
The Nineteenth Letter. Qoin (p).
"He produced Qoph, predominant in Mirth,
crowned it, combined and formed with it Pisces in
the Universe, Adar in the Year, and the spleen of
Man."Sepher Yetzirah, 25.
The nineteenth Hebrew letter is Qoph (Q) one of the
12 simple letters. Its meaning is the back of the head or the
base of th brain (the cerebellum) in which are situated the
functions of coordination and balance. Hieroglyphically Qoph
expresses a sharp weapon, something that is able to penetrate
or cut asunder. In this respect, taking the cerebellum as a
due, this sharp weapon would be coordination or power of
balancing the good and the evil. Also we know that one of
the dominant forces of the sign of Pisces, with which Qoph
is connected, is the power, through thought and understand-
ing, to cut deeply into the mysteries of life. Mirth, too, is a
great balancing power, for one who can see a joke often saves
the day. The spleen of man contains the center which con-
nects his physical body with the astral world and it requires
much balanced power of understanding to coordinate with
its activities.
Again we are told by Papus that this sharp weapon is
"everything that is useful to man; defends him; makes an
effort for him. The Qoph is therefore a particularly com-
prehensive, astringent, and cutting gn.1 We know of no
sharp weapon given to man that can accomplish all this save
the awakened power of discriminative thought.
This letter is the fulfillment in natural progression of the
letter He (5) Universal Life; Cheth (8) Evolution of nature
and man; Kaph (11) assimilated life, and Qoph (19) ma-
terial existence reflecting spiritual purification, or man and
woman consciously building up in the universe, because they
1 T.rot of tile BokeJ,&i.ftz, 179.
712
V.
L b1
THE 19TH TAROT CARD
THE STJN
Pa pus MEDIEVAL TYPES Papus
St. Cermain SmitA
EGYPTIAN TYPE MODERN TYPE
Qopl& 273
have builded it in themselves, the Spiritual Temple and con-
sciously becoming the responsible doers and builders of their
own destiny. When humanity in the aggregate, or even in
the majority, reaches this point, mirth, joy and harmony will
reign on earth.
THE NINETEENTH TAROT CARD.
The Sun.
"To will well, to will long, to will always, but
never to lust after anything, such is the secret of
power."Tra,sscendental Magic, Levi, 238.
The nineteenth card of the Tarot is called The Sun. It pic-
tures two naked children who seem to be shut in by a high
wall built of brick, symbolizing something of man's making.
Above them is the full orbed Sun sending forth two kinds
of rays, the straight line (masculine) and the curved tongue
(feminine). The two naked children standing beneath it
are surrounded by a shower of 19 golden drops from the
Sun. The left hand of the male child is placed over the
solar plexus of the female, while his right hand with the
fingers cupped is held upright before him in a position of
receptivity directly in front of his own solar plexus. The
right hand of the female rests upon the center at the base
of the brain of the maleover the center of Wisdomwhile
her left hand is stretched toward the earth. The position of
the hands gives to this card deep significance, for as we have
said elsewhere, the hands symbolize the power to accomplish,
the left on interior and the right on exterior planes.
The meaning suggested by the entire card is that of the
Sun in the Universe bringing forth, through its positive and
negative or masculine and feminine forces, the golden showers
of productivity for the children of men. Humanity presented
as male and female, children of the Sun, are receiving the
forces thus showered upon them and in their turn are using
them to bring forth Wisdom in both the outer life and the
inner.
274 The Key of Destiny
Just as the physical Sun represents the Spiritual Sun, so
in this card man and woman stand not only for the highest
point yet reached in physical evolution, but also as the repre-
sentatives of God, being creators as well as procreators. The
positive magnetic force of the man awakens the solar plexus
of the woman which draws in the life-force of the sun and
sends it up the spine as the Kundalini Fire.
In the performance of a certain breath exercise the ad-
vanced student, through the power of his trained Will, is able
to direct this stream of life-force to the heart where, through
the feminine power of intuition, it receives the baptism of
Spiritual Fire. The cup-shaped position of the right band
indicates that the Initiate at this step is able to use this spirit-
ualized power to accomplish in the outer world.
The inner work of accomplishment for woman is to stimu-
late, through her love, intuition and sympathy, the brain of
the man that his mind may be illumined and enabled to store
up Wisdom from his experiences, while her outer work is to
bless the earth through her progenybe they spiritual, mental
or physicalwhich will ultimately fulfill the prophecy "It
shall bruise thy (the serpent's) head, and thou shalt bruise
his heel." This prophecy refers to the serpent in its aspect
of Time, as well as the Saturn-force or the Tester. For the
serpent, Saturn and Time are all in a sense synonymous. Sat-
urn is represented as Cronus devouring his children, i. e., time,
the serpent, swallowing its tail.
In another sense, this card refers to the Great Work or
transmutation, sometimes called "The Mastery of the Sun,"
in its two-fold application; for the shower of gold from the
Sun represents first the transmutation of metals, then the
forces of nature and finally the inner Sun Initiation in which
the lower nature of man and woman is changed to spiritual
gold. In this card-19 whose numerical power is 1+9=10
or Completionwe find the completed out-picturing of that
which the first card, The Juggler, presented.1 In that card we
irks Xe, to the (Jnivevse. Curti,,. 74.
Qoph 273
saw man standing alone with the two principles, active and
passive, contained in himself, while before him were all the
implements of the Great Art. In this nineteenth card we
find man and woman united through the Sun-force, balanced
the one with the other, and bringing to Completion the
Great Work. Hence the work for each must first be to
balance the forces within, then unite the balanced forces to
complete the Great Work.
In this nineteenth card the sign of the Swastika is sug-
gested by the united attitudes of the man and woman. In
The Secret Doctrine, in reference to this marvellous symbol
we read: "Verily many are its meanings! In the macrocosmic
work, the 'Hammer of Creation' [symbolized bý the Sun in
this card] with its four arms bent at right angles, refers to the
continual motion and revolution in the invisible Kosmos of
Forces. In that of the manifested Cosmos and our Earth, it
points to the rotation in the Cycles of Time; . . . the two
lines forming the Svastika, meaning Spirit and Matter.
Applied to the microcosm, Man, it shows him to be a link
between Heaven and Earth; the right hand being raised at
the end of a horizontal arm, the left pointing to the Earth.
It is at one and the same time an Aichemical, Cosmo-
gonical, Anthropological, and Magical sign."1
This cross is now no longer a cross of suffering on
which Spirit must be crucified in its effort to uplift matter;
for through the mystical divine Union of the Spirit in
man and woman we see its work completed. It is now
balanced and set in motion to perform its wonders in all
worlds. It has become "Thor's Hammer" the Magic Weapon
which strikes sparks from the flint. In the picture, the ccii-
ters of the body touched by the hands (Swastika)the solar
plexus, the sun-center, and the base of the brain, the Mercury-
centerindicate a most important truth often overlooked in
descriptions of the Tarot, namely, that it is man, also the active
1 VoL II. 104.
276 The Key of Destiny
principle in both man and woman, which must work through
the physical forces and awaken the solar plexus in both. Or
we might say, it is the active principle which must connect
humanity with the active principle in the Cosmos contacted
through the Sun, for the power of the solar plexus in man
corresponds to the active power of the physical Sun in the
Cosmos. But it is the feminine or the passive principle, both
in man and woman, which must awaken in both the center of
Wisdom and through it spiritualize the Sun-force. In the
Cosmos the heat (active principle) of the Sun will but dry
and wither if moisture, the passive principle, does not nourish
and quicken the growth of the seed, and an analogous process
must manifest in man and woman ere the Sun, both physical
and spiritual, can drop showers of spiritual or physical gold
upon them and upon the world.
This card also suggests that this step or completion must
be taken while man and woman are yet on the earth, still
circumscribed by human limitations. This is indicated by the
wall of five tiers of brick. The wall is not so high that it
cannot be surmounted if necessary, yet they turn their backs
upon it and, standing together and working together, each
in his or her own spheres, each a complement of the other,
they have accomplished the Great Work and become the
Philosopher's Stone. Hence they recognize that the brick
wall of physical conditions is not an insuperable barrier to
the Spirit and that it is needed by those who are still working
toward the completion of the Work. That it is a work for
humanity is shown by the five tiers of brick which compose
the wall surrounding their field of labor. Just as surely
as a retort and a fierce fire are necessary to the perfect
transmutation of metals and a limited field of operation,
i.e., the limits of the solar system, is necessary to the physi-
cal Sun that it may not dissipate its forces in the depths of
space without accomplishing anything, so must there be a
limit to the field in which man must complete the Great Work.
This card also holds a world of irkaning as to how the
Qoph 277
perfect equilibrium between man and woman can be accom-
pushed. The man stands with bent arm (strength bent to
execute) and hand (accomplishment) cupped to receive the
downpouring of the higher forces that by the awakening of
the Mercury-center (thought) in both, united they shall solve
the riddle of the universe. The woman must uplift thought,
center it upon spiritual things in both and create the higher
ideals for the life-force to animate, strengthen and manifest.
Her other hand is pointed to the earth to accomplish by
bringing forth more spiritual children, not alone through
physical birth, but also by the birth of ideals and the birth
of higher standards and of reforms.
This perfectly balanced pair are here represented as hav-
ing created the Philosopher's Stone which turns everything
into gold. And it is the work of the feminine to see to it
that everything the two aspects of the Philosopher's Stone
touches shall be transmuted into pure spiritual gold. Thus
will man take his true place in the universe as "the lord of
creation" or the distributor of God's divine forces on the
mundane plane. Then in a very practical way will "all things
work together for good."
CHAPTER XL
The Number 20. TIlE DISPENSER OF WISDoM.
"If thou woulds't have that stream of harð-earn'd
knowledge, of Wisdom heaven-born, remain sweet
running waters, thou shoulds't not leave it to become
a stagnant pond. Know, if of Amitabha, the 'Bound-
less Age,' thou would'st become co-worker, then
must thou shed the light acquired, like to the Bod-
bisattyas twain, upon the span of all three worlds."
The Voice of the Silence, Blavatsky, 70.
"God operates by His worksin heaven by Angels,
and on earth by men."Eliphas Levi.
The number 20 is composed of two complete cycles of 10,
each containing the experience of the 9 digits. But unlike
10, which has the 1 or the Divine standing at the right hand
of the circle of unmanifested forces, in 20 we find 2 or the
number of the mundane or differentiation. Here the One
Life has become thoroughly materialized. It has not only
entered into matter but has evolved through it until man,
the highest expression of duality (male and female) has
realized his position and responsibility, and has completed
his cycle, hence in this number he stands as the representative
of God to all below him.
In 20 therefore we must consider man as God's Ambassa-
dor, responsible for his works and also responsible to God for
the kingdoms and inhabitants of earth entrusted to him,. In
short, man has now "become as one of us" (the Elohim).
In this present state of the world it is only one here and there
during the ages who has reached this state of attainment, yet
there has never been an age which has not produced its
Initiates. And since the truth is recognized that "power be-.
longs to him who knows," so is it equally true that he who
knows is responsible, in exact proportion to the amount of
his knowledge, for the use he makes of his power, for per-
sonal responsibilities cannot be evaded if true progress is to
be attained. Therefore the Initiate is one who by toil, self-
275
The Dispenser of Wisdom 279
sacrifice and suffering has sought out the hidden mysteries of
life and has, like Job, stood face to face with the Lord (the
Great Law which spoke out of the whirlwind) and at his
command: "Gird up thy loins now like a man: I will demand
of thee, and declare thou unto me,"1 has fearlessly answered,
"Here am I." Such an one has never been wanting in any
age of the world and in the early days of manldnd such
Initiates were the rulers of mankind. And as mankind ad-
vanced in intellectual knowledge the greatest of all mysteries
was given to all who could receive it, namely, the truth that
God dwelt in man, be he ever so seemingly separated from
God; that mankind are not separated atoms of matter driven
helplessly hither and thither, nor are they children to be
ruled and governed even by the Elders Brothers of the Race,
but are now responsible beings, Rays froûi the One Divine
Light, the God or the Spiritual Sun. "The only begotten Son
of the Father" incarnate in the flesh has a dwelling place
within each Soul, hence through this divine indwelling Christ
each man and woman has the power of reaching to the full-
ness of the Father. This doctrine has been universally
taught by the wise men of all ages.
Once man had reached the stage of individual responsibility,
the close personal guidance given him in his child-stage has
little by little been superseded by the guidance from within.
When this stage is reached he must begin to recognize the
God-power within and learn to trust it as a sure guide and
pathway to knowledge, and not look without to any super-
human guidance. Only thus will the mass of mankind reach
the step symbolized by number 20, for its primal meaning is
that God has fully clothed himself in man, the Word has
been made flesh and dwells among us, not only in the great
divine Avatar, Jesus, whose life-story was given us as an
example of what each Soul must attain, but God has touched
the physical plane in each man. From this point on number 2
lJob. XL. 7.
280 The Key of Destiny
must be looked upon not as the Number of Separation or
departure from the 1, but as made up of two ones; God and
man united in one figure.
Number 20 must also be considered from the aspect
of the knowledge of good and evil. But in 20, baying
passed 2 cydes of 10, it stands for one who has eaten of
the Tree of Good and Evil and has become as one of the
Elohiin, hence has the power to walk either in the right
band path or the left according to his own Will, but this he
aow does consciously, not ignorantly, as before.
The law of the physical plane is duality, hence the num-
ber 2 or the God-man now stands where - the 1 stood in the
first cycle. "Throughout the whole mystic literature of the
ancient world we detect the same idea of spiritual Esoterism,
that the personal God exists within, nowhere outside, the wor-
shipper. That personal Deity is no vain breath, or a fiction,
but an immortal Entity, the Initiator of the Initiates, now that
the heavenly or Celestial Initiators of primitive humanity
are no more among us."2 Note well that this does not say
that there is no manifestation of God outside of man, but no
personal God outside.
This Immortal Entity spoken of is the Ray of God which
has become the Father-in-Heaven or personal God of each
man and woman, just as surely as a ray of sunlight is an
individualized expression of the Sun. Yet just as the ray
of sunshine has become embodied in a flower or fruit so
the Immortal Ray of God has become flesh of our flesh, is
dwelling within each Soul; in fact is the Real or Divine
Self of each one. Hence only as we listen, obey and identify
ourselves with this divine incarnate Ray can we, like the
flower or fruit, unfold our perfect pattern or become an
Initiate. This, however, does not postulate that we are Gods
now at the present stage of development, except potentially.
We are only such when we demonstrate that the lower self has
2Tke Secret Docfri,,e Blavatsky III, 62.
The Dispenser of Wisdom 281
ceased to be the governing power and the God in us sits on his
throne and rules our lives in the sight of men. Only this incar-
nate God-power can initiate us into all mysteries of being and
make us one with all that is, so we can rule, firstly ourselves
our bodies, our minds, our forcesthen rule the forces of na-
ture. Only when we have touched within ourselves the
Source of all forces in nature can we open the Book of Life,
read and understand its concealed mysteries, converse with
the bee and ant and understand the music of the spheres.
Therefore to the majority of students 20 must stand as a
great ultimate possibility, yet it must point to a positive fact,
i.e., that they have with them "the power of the Christ"; that
through this power of the Christ they can conquer, beginning
with the little things that come to them day by day, realizing
that Mastery is a growth; that a fault once mastered never
has to be mastered again, but it is stored up as power and
lends its aid to master the next difficulty. A God-like quality
such as love, compassion or unselfishness once built into our
character, has strengthened the expression of our God-nature
just that much more and has given us power to attain to a
new step.
But this number must also remind us that, being a human
or mundane number, it comes under the law of duality, hence
must have within it the two opposites. Since it stands at the
right hand of the circle of unmanifested possibilities, thus, 20,
there must be 2 ways in which this circle can be manifested,
either good or bad, black or white. Hence number 20 stands
for free-will, or man with his developed Will and the power
to use it in deciding which Path he shall tread, for this new
circle is as yet unmanifested.
Kabalistically number 20 is called the Breaker of the Ele-
ments ze., one who has separated the elements and has gained
control over them.
According to Kabalistic teachings each Soul has two
angels, a good and an evil one. "From Ruach (reason) and
Nephesch (passion), influenced by' the good aspirations of
282 The Key of Destiny
Neschainah, proceeds Michael, the good angel of the SouL
From Nephesch dominating Ruach and uninfluenced by
the good aspirations of Neschamah, proceeds Samael, the evil
angel of the SouL"3 Thus the duality of man is explained;
reason controlling the passions creates a good angel Michael,
literally a force which each Soul draws from the Sun and
entitizes, and which becomes a reliable helper towards the
higher development. But when passion dominates or is cx-.
cused and its indulgence is argued away by reason, it creates
an entitized evil angel or Genius, Saxnael, which is always
ready to give a plausible excuse or reason why black should
be called white and evil good.
Again, the Kaballa tells us that man's personality is an image
which is double, since it can reflect either Michael or Sainael.
In other words man can choose which likeness shall be im-
printed upon the sensitive plate of his individuality. Once
the choice is made it is like a sensitized photographic plate, the
more it is exposed to the light of the Sun, ze., the higher we
climb, the more intense the image. This accounts for the
fact that many persons have great spiritual unfoldment and
charming manners, yet have deformed bodies or repulsive
features. In some incarnation they have permitted Samael
to rule and find expression in their lives, hence must bear his
imprint until the rule of Michael can transmute it into his
image. Hence the choice is, Shall we let Michael or Samael
rule our lives and make his imprint upon our bodies?
"Beauty is but sldn deep" is only a half truth, for true
beauty is an expression of Soul development or "the beauty
of holiness" which will ultimately produce a symmetrical
expression on all planes and in all our bodies, beginning with
the inner and most ethereal and gradually manifesting out-
wardly; for we could not imagine a Super-man with a de-
formed body or repulsive visage. Those who today have
beautiful bodies but evil minds arc those who in the past have
37k. K.bbdak Uuv.il.j. M.tbeu. 37.
The Dispenser of Wisdom 283
allowed Michael to rule, but who today are allowing the
imprint of Samael to overlay that of Michael.
In the Sepher YetrÅrah4 "the Twentieth Path is the Intelli-
gence of Will, and is so-called because it is the means of prep-
aration of all and each created being, and by this intelli-
gence the existence of the Primordial Wisdom becomes
known."
4Pagc 30.
CRAFER XL!.
The Twentieth Letter. REsU (n).
"He produced Resh, and referred it to Peace; He
crowned it, combined and formed it with Saturn m
the Universe, the sixth day of the week, and the left
nostril of rnan."&jiher Yetsiroh, 22.
"The number one (1) signified with the Alexan-
drian Initiates a body erect, a living, standin? man,
he being the only animal that has this privilege.
And, by adding to the '1' a head, it was transformed
into a P,' a symbol of paternity, of the creative
potency; while 'R' signified a 'moving man' [with
his foot forward!, one on his way."The Secret
Doctrine, Blavatsky, ii, 607.
The twentieth letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Re.sh (R).
It is a double letter corresponding to the planet Saturn whose
double aspects are the strength of silence and immobility and
the dissolution of death; also peace and war. Its meaning
is the head. As the head of man is the seat of govermnent,
this letter corresponds very well with the meaning given to
number 20 in the preceding Chapter, for it is man standing
upright, his head containing a brain so developed that it has
unfolded or awakened the Third Eye or Pineal Gland, the
center of spiritual sight situated in the middle of the brain.
"The Pineal Gland, or Coranariurn, is a rounded, oblong body,
from three to four lines long, of a deep reddish grey, con-
nected with the posterior part of the third ventricle of the
brain. It is attached at its base by two thin medullary cords,
which diverge forward to the Optic Thalaxni. Remember that
the latter are found by the best Physiologists to be the organs
of reception and condensation of the most sensitive and sen-
sorial incitations from the periphery of the body (according
to Occultism, from the periphery of the Antic Egg which is
our point of communication with the higher universal planes).
We are further told that the two bands of the Optic Thalami,
which are inflected to meet each other, unite on the median
.Resl& 285
line, where they become the two peduncles of the Pineal
Gland.
"The Pituitary Body or Hypophysis Cerebri is a small and
hard organ, about six lines broad, three long and three high.
It is formed of an anterior bean-shaped, and of a posterior
and more rounded lobe, which are uniformly united. Its
component parts, we are told, are almost identical with those
of the Pineal Gland; yet not the slightest connection can be
traced between the two centers. To this, however, Occultists
take exception; they know that there is a connection....
Dissectors on the other hand, have to deal with corpses; and,
as they themselves admit, brain matter, of all tissues and or-
gans, collapses and changes form the soonestin fact, a few
minutes after death. . . . But the contraction and even inter-
blending of parts in this process of shrinking, and the subse-
quent pasty state of the brain, do not imply that there is no
connection between these two organs before death.. . . When
a man is in his normal condition, an Adept can see the golden
Aura pulsating in both the centers, like the pulsation of the
heart, which never ceases throughout life. This motion, how-
ever, under the abnormal condition of effort to develop clair-
voyant faculties, becomes intensified, and the Aura takes a
stronger vibratory or swinging action. The arc of the pulsation
of the Pituitary Body mounts upward, more and more, until,
just as when the electric current strikes some solid object, the
current finally strikes the Pineal Gland, and the dormant organ
is awakened and set all glowing with the pure Alcashic Fire.
For a brief space of time man becomes omniscient; the
Past and the Future, Space and Time, disappear and become
for him the Present. If an Adept, he will store the knowl-
edge he thus gains in his physical memory, and nothing, save
the crime of indulging in BlaCk Magic, can obliterate the re-
membrance of it. If only a Chela, portions alone of the whole
truth will impress themselves on his men*ry, and he will
280 The Key of Destiny
have to repeat the process for years.. . before lie can be-
come a fully initiated Adept."
Since the awakening of the Pineal Gland is the recognition
of the Great Initiator (the Real Self, under the guidance of
Saturn, as we have said in a previous chapter), this attain-
ment is the supreme power vested in the head and makes of
man the ruler over all the beasts of the field; for man is the
only animal in which this can be made to function in the
higher realms. Also as we are wont to speak of Saturn as the
Great Initiator, it is well to understand that the process of
opening the Third Eye is the work of Saturn, working through
the Higher Self of the individual.
The twentieth letter is also connected with the left nostril
of man, which corresponds. to the life vehicle, while the right
corresponds to the life principle. In other words the life of
the physical breath is drawn through the nostrils and, in the
illumined Adept, is vitalized by the spiritual force from the
auric vibrations through the Pineal Gland. But the two
nostrils have each its own work to perform; the right carries
the life-principle outwardly while the left as it draws in the
vital breath, becomes a vehicle for the more mysterious spir-
itual force of the inner life.
THE TWENTIETH TAROT CARD.
The Judgment.
The twentieth card of the Tarot is called The Judgment. It
pictures in the center of the card an angel with radiant wings.
This angel is enthroned in the clouds while the halo from him
extends like an encircling wreath above his head and around
him. From his aura great shafts of light both positive and
negative shoot down to earth, symbolizing the human nature
of the sign or that it must be interpreted in connection with
the evolution of the pairs of opposites and of man and woman.
The angel is blowing a long, straight horn, having a banner
1ke Secf D,ct,we. BIZVatAY. III. 504-S.
THE 20n TAROT CARD
TUIi JIJDGMENT
c
it
20 LEJUENET
PaDUS MEDIEVAL TYPES Pa pus
Smith
MODERN TYPE
St. Ge,-main
EGYPTIAN TYPE
ResJ& 287
attached such as was used by ancient Heralds. On the ban-
ner is a balanced cross, which always means victory or the
lifting up of the cross of suffering and crucifixion, and the
folding up of the cube.2 In front of the angel or let us say
the Herald, is an open tomb or initiation crypt from which
emerges a child, while a man and woman stand outside the
crypt, facing the child, with hands clasped in adoration.
This card has generally been interpreted as the Resurrec-
tion and the Last Judgment of the dead. But the symbology
does not carry out this idea at all, for it pictures a well known
ceremony of the Eleusinian Mysteries which marked the com-
pletion of an Initiation. The tomb as we have said is the
crypt into which the Candidate must descend for the final
cerenonies which take place entirely on the higher planes
while the physical body, in a state of suspended animation, is
watched over as depicted in this card, by a Priest and Priest-
ess who are Adepts of high degree. At the end of three days
a Herald, by many described as an Angel of Light, announces
the victory and awakens the Candidate from his trance. The
child emerging from the tomb represents such a Candidate.
He is represented as a child because he has just been re-born;
for one who has passed the last crucial test was always called
"The Twice-born." The man and woman facing him are the
spiritual Parents, so-called because they have been his watch-
ers and guides through the terrible experiences that have
given him spiritual birth.
The rays or shafts of light shooting from the Aura of the
Herald are pictured as 20 in number or in some versions only
12. Moreover there are drops of water falling as a shower
upon the three figures. These are the symbol of heavenly
dew or power and they in turn are 20 in number. Also these
falling drops symbolize the baptism in the Jordan8 which
esotericly symbolizes one of the Major Initiations.4 In the
2 See The Key to the Ui,iverse.Curtiss, 140-197.
'See The Message of Åqwa, Curtiss, Chapter XL
4 See The Key to the U,Åverse. Curtiss 307.
288 The Key of Destiny
revised medieval card the man and woman are standing waist
deep in a river while the child is about to step in, showing
that the man and woman have already been baptised and be-
come Initiates.
It may be questioned by some if there is any reason why
a man and woman should occupy the place they do in the sym-
bology of this card. To all such we quote: "Woman, being
left with the full or perfect cosmic number 10 (the divine
number of Jehovah), was deemed higher and more spiritual
than man. In Egypt, in days of old, the marriage service
contained an article that the woman should be the 'lady of the
lord,' and real lord over him, the husband pledging himself
to be 'obedient to his wife' for the production of aichemical
results such al the Elixir of Life and the Philosopher's Stone,
for the spiritual help of the woman was needed by the male
Alchemist."
There are high Adepts and Masters who have reached that
state through the feminine Ray, but so far in evolution the
worldly conditions have been so strenuous that the extreme
sensitiveness of the Initiate has required a masculine body to
cope with physical conditions. For this reason the feminine
Ray has had to exert its helpfulness from the higher planes
or else incarnate in a masculine body. But when the feminine
cycle or Woman's Age is fully manifested on earth it will be
different, and humanity may be surprised to see a feminine
Master manifesting in a feminine body, which heretofore
has been impossible.
'Tb. Secret Doctriiie. BIavatzky. 111. 449.
CHAPTER XLII.
The Number 21. No NUMBEL
"Know that the stream of superhuman knowledge
and the Deva-Wisdom thou hast won must from
thyself, the channel of Alaya, be poured forth into
another bed.... Its pure fresh water must be used
to sweeter make the Ocean's bitter wavesthat
mighty sea of sorrow formed of the tears of men."
The Voice of the Silence, Blavatsky, 70.
"The Twenty-first Path is the Intelligence of Con-
ciliation, and is so called because it receives the
divine influence which flows with it from its bene-
diction upon all and each existence."SeJ'her Yet-
ziroh, 30.
In this number we find "The Man" who has completed his
evolution through the double cycle of 20 in which he became
one with the Father (the One Life) and has again taken this
One Life for his Rod and Staff and used it as his Magic
\Vand, as he did in number 11, to strike the rock of hard
earth conditions that the refreshing Water of Life might
flow and give of its refreshment to the world. He has also
drunk of this Living Water until it has become within hini
"a well of water springing up into everlasting Life." We
have seen him, on the strength of this living force, complete
a second cycle of 10, a cycle which might be called "The
word made flesh" or the divine One Life absorbed into the
physical and differentiated into the dual forces of spiritual
and corporeal life. Therefore as man perfected in duality
(2), in number 20 we have seen him "sit in the seat of the
mighty" and become the Viceregent of the God within now
standing at the right hand of the unmanifested circle of hi
next cycle, thus, 20.
In number 21 we see the Soul starting out on its third and
great or Divine Cycle of manifestation, 3 being the number
of Divinity. This is really a superhuman cycle, for the now
perfected dual manifestations of the Soul, the completed and
truly united man and woman (2), as separate personalities
289
290 The Key of Destiny
have been indrawn into the Higher Self upon their completion
in the number 20 of their separate cycles. Although that in-
drawal and union with the Higher Self (the circle) ended the
necessity of the Higher Self for further incarnations in the
flesh, nevertheless the perfected personalities have left behind
much Karma and many creations which they must redeem.
The Spiritual Ray which constituted their Higher Self, hav-
ing completed its mission in matter by having built up mascu-
line and feminine vehicles and so purified and perfected them
that they are one with it and capable of manifesting all its
positive and negative God-powers on earth, now withdraws
to still higher regions, leaving the perfected and now super-
human personalities or completed Individuality as its repre-
sentative. This completed Individuality remains in the higher
realms but sends down a ray of itself to animate a new but
temporary personality through which it is enabled to work
out all its old Karma and redeem its left-over creations. The
completed Individuality thus in turn becomes the Higher Self
of the new personality and guides it step by step along the
same path by which its oneness was attained.
This doctrine is confirmed by The Secret Doctrine as fol-
lows: "In this case, after the physical translation of such
a saint or Bodhisattva, his astral principles cannot be subjected
to a natural dissolution like those of any common mortal.
They remain in our sphere and within human attraction and
reach; and thus it is that not only a Buddha, a Shankara-
charya or a Jesus can be said to animate several persons at
one and the same time, but even the principles of a high
Adept may be animating the outward tabernacles of common
mortals. - . . When corporeal death takes place the follow-
ing mysterious event happens. As a Dharmakaya, a Nirvani
'without remains' entirely free from terrestrial admixture,
the Spiritual Ego cannot return to reincarnate on earth. But
in such cases, it is affirmed, the personal Ego of even a Dhar-
makaya can remain in our sphere as a whole, and return to
incarnation on earth if need be. For now it can no longer be
No Number 291
subject, like the astral remains of any ordinary man, to gradual
dissolution. . .. It has become too holy and pure, no longer
by reflected but its own natural light and spirituality, either
to sleep in the unconscious slumber of a lower Nirvanic state,
or to be dissolved like any ordinary astral shell ani disap-
pear in its entirety. But in that condition known as the Nir-
manakaya (the Nirvani 'with remains') he can still help
humanity."1 The working of this law effectually disposes of
the persistent claims made by many that the Great Soul known
in her last incarnation as Helena Petrovna Blavatsky must
incarnate again and cannot possibly be still working in the
Astral World,2 and redeeming the many mistakes of the early
days which she acknowledged, both of personality and of
teaching, and from that World redeeming her karmic left-
overs through lesser personalities.
Therefore in number 21 we see the perfected and lual In-
dividuality (two perfect tens) now sending down its ray in
the new 1 at its left hand, showing that this new 1 is a minor
incarnation or temporary personality. If we consider 21 as
2+1 or 3 it also brings us back directly to Divinity, showing
that the perfected 2 has become Divine and stands as the
Father-in-Heaven to the new 1.
We also note that in 21 the figures are the reverse of those
in number 12. We therefore see that in 21 the perfected In-
dividuality reaches its spiritual majority, at which time it be-
comes independent of the Father which has been indrawn
to higher worlds, and sets up its own household, of which the
new 1 is the offspring and which contains all the powers and
forces required to manifest such temporary personalities as
it may be necessary to project for the completion of its work
and the redemption of its creations. As we have already ex-
plained, when a child is 12 years of age, the Ego takes full
possession and it is said to have reached physical puberty, so
in 21 the completed Individuality has reached its age of
1 Tie Serd DacIyij,e. Blavatsky', III, 372-3.
2 Realms of She Liriug Dead. Curtis'. 194-S.
292 The Key of Destiny
spiritual puberty, i. e., can take up the creative work of the
Father through the new 1.
In a much higher sense at this point the completed indi-
viduality can say, as Jesus said to His parents when at 12 He
was found in the Temple: "How is it that ye sought me? wist
ye not that I must be about my Father's business ?" Since
He was of age He could sit "in the midst of the doctors, both
hearing them and asking them questions." And the learned
doctors understood that at that age the Ego impresses much
upon the sensitive brain of the child, hence patiently listen
to him and answer his questions.4 Now, at the point which
is symbolized by 21, the Higher Self enters into the Great
Temple of the Universe, which is that which the Temple at
Jerusalem was meant to symbolize, and standing in the midst
of the Elohim before the Throne, both asks and answers
questions, i.e., gives the accounting of his stewardship; for
in number 21, having already become one with his Father,
he now becomes a conscious executor of "his Father's busi-
ness."
But this work is not an easy one, for in the long Cyde of
Necessity in which the Soul laboriously climbed to this height
of completed Individuality, there were many evil creations of
its own which, until fully reaching this stage, it had neither
the strength, wisdom nor ability to redeem and adjust. If
in each incarnation we had literally to redeem every mistake
as we went along, no Soul would ever reach At-one-ment,
for there would be little time left for progress. Because God
is a God of Love, and Love is a perfect balance of Wisdom
and Mercy, it is the earnest struggle, the persistent effort, the
valient facing of every foe within, and above all the ardent
devotion to ideals and the realization of Divine Love, that
brings the slow but sure growth into oneness with the Father,
because it is the realization of the God-consciousness and
Divine Love by which we gain the victory. Therefore the ad-
I Luke. IT, 49.
45c. pagel 55.6-8.
No Number 293
vancing Initiate finds many things with which he is unable to
cope, and like the disciples of Jesus, many devils he is unable
to cast out until he not only holds the Rod of Power, but has
become that Rod himself. This is a distinctly Christian doc-
trifle; in fact, it is just this little understood phase of life of
the Super-man to which Jesus alluded when He said to His
disciples: "He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall
he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because
I go unto my Father," i.e., the completed Individuality (Jesus)
was to be indrawn and leave his representatives on earth to do
His works in succeeding ages.
The world has been growing more and more dense, more
and more steeped in the darkness of materiality and the Karma
left behind like the trail of a slimy serpent is more difficult
to redeem. Therefore that which must be accomplished by
the Higher Self in the later ages is far more difficult than in
former ages. And because the Higher Self now has greater
or harder work, it can never enter into the fullness of rest
until it can say with Jesus: "Those that thou gayest me, I
have kept and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition."
It must perform greater works, for the greater the evil, the
greater the strength is gained by overcoming and transmuting
it, and evolution never stands still. "Those that thou gayest
me" are the various personalities which have been informed
by the higher Divine Ray while the Son of Perdition means
all the emanations and creations of the lower animal soul, or
we might say the Adversary of the Higher Self, made up of
all the entitized evil that the various personalities have cre-
ated in the long struggle during which they have warred
against the divine guidance and have refused to follow and
obey.
This evil has become entitized by creative thought-
forcebecaue the personality has free-willuntil it is a
living monster, "the Dweller on the Threshold," which must
be met and absolutely overcome and transmuted by the Higher
294 The Key of Destiny
Self and its influence over the personality destroyed for.
ever crc the personality can be redeemed and the com-
pleted Individuality can accomplish "his Father's business."
This monster stands ever at the Threshold of each new on-
ward step and is in very truth the "Son of Perdition," for it
is but the ephemeral entitization of evil and perdition, and is
killed or perishes only when every perverse and evil thought
and creation of which it is made up has been turned around
(re-deemed) and made to work for good.
We must also consider 21 in its aspect of 7+7+7=21.
For while 12 is the Number of Fruition on earth or the field
of accomplishment within the zodiac, it is but the reflection
of 21, which is the Fruition or field of accomplishment in the
divine realms. This is a - most sacred number, for number
7, because it is both male and female, Divine and mundane or
3 and 4,5 contains within it the symbol of the greatest test of
the humanity of this planet, le., the perfect blending of the
mystic forces of the two, male and female into spiritual cre-
ative power. Hence 7 is the magical number par excellence,
and the magic of it is the perfect rest of the equilibrated
forces which have completed the unrest of the 6 periods of
labor and now rest in the midst of a perfect sphere. The nunf-
ber 7 three times repeated is this rest in all three worlds.
Also from its Kabalistic reading we can see that the three
sevens mean a perfected man in the three worlds and also the
ultimate perfection of all the human Race. Hence 7 7 7
must be considered as being concealed in 21 as 7+7+7=21.
It is the totality of the Mystery of Life in the 3 worlds.
Hence we find that the number 21 is called "no number"
arni is passed over in silence for the same reason that
the sacred name was merely indicated but never spoken by
the Hebrews. This number relating as it does to the works
of the Soul after it has completed its earthly pilgrimage and
5" The number 7 says the Kabbalal,. 'Is the great number of the Divine
Mysteries.'" The Secret Doctnwe, Blavatsky. I. 68.
No Number 295
become Superman and in point of fact no longer exists on
earth except in its results, from this point of view may be
called 'no number."
The usual way to interpret this number is as the ultimate of
the Magical Arcanum, and it is only too often confounded with
the vulgar idea of Divination, namely, the power to divine
that which is hidden, or to exercise magical power, rather than
its true meaning, i.e., to exercise Divinity.
We must also consider 21 from its aspect of 7+7+7=
21=3. Since 7 is the number of Perfection the 3x7 would
be Perfection gained in the 3 worlds, or the threefold rest of
the Christ-power after its 6 days of labor in each world.
Again the idea of "no number" is emphasized, for this is the
"Rest that remaineth for the people of God," for just as the
3 sevens are ultimately summed up in 3 (7+7+7=21=3)
the triune Godhead, so is this rest an indrawing of the mdi-
vidual into the Nirvanic Rest or merging (by expansion) of
the individual consciousness into the Divine.
CHAPTER XLIII.
The Twenty-first Letter. SHIN (7).
"He caused Shin to reign in Fire, and crowned it,
and combining it with the others, sealed with it the
heavens in the Universe, heat in the year, and the
head in man, male and female."Sepher Yetzirah, 20.
"Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding
high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of
the world, and the glory of them; and saith unto
him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall
down and worship me."St. Matthew, IV, 8-9.
The twenty-first letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Shin (Sh),
one of the Three Mothers. Its Kabalistic meaning is a tooth,
while it carries the double sound of the fifteenth letter Sa,neclz
(S) a prop, and the fifth letter He (H) a window. This may
sound somewhat confusing, yet if we consider each as carry-
ing a different shade of the same meaning we will find all
fit into its fundamental meaning, which is that of Fire.
Sainech is a masculine letter and He a feminine, hence the
esoteric meaning of Shin is the fire of perfect love manifesting
when man and woman are united as one and embodying the
Divine Fire.
Applying the idea of fire to the Cosmos, we find that there
were three distinct stages in the coming forth of the
Cosmos out of its primordial cipher, each attributed to one
of the Three Mothers or one of the three aspects of the Divine
Creative Fire. In the first chapter of Genesis we read: "God
created the heaven and the earth.. . and the Spirit of God
moved upon the face of the waters." This first creation was
brought forth by Aleph, the air; for the Spirit is the Breath
and it was by the Spirit or Breath that God created the heaven
and the earth. "God saw everything that he had made and
behold it was very good." This was the creation or bringing
forth through Mem, the water which, as we have said in for-
mer chapters, is the symbol of the Divine Mother-side of the
Godhead; that which after the Breath had animated the Cos-
Shin 297
mos gave solidity to it by the brooding power of embodiment
through Mother-love. Hence "God saw" or we might put it,
the Mother aspect of God (Mern) saw to it that everything
was very good, just as a hen gathers her little newly hatched
chicks under her feathers and sees to it that no harm shall
come to them; that they shall be warm and safe and comfort-
able, or as a Mother cherishes, feeds and tends a new-born
infant that it may have every chance to grow in, health
and strength. We might call this form of creation the for,na-
tive or the cherishing power of love to solidify and make per-
manent structure.
The third creation is through Shin or Fire, which purifies,
tempers and hardens. This is noted in Genesis II, 6-7.
"There went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole
face of the ground. And the Lord God formed man of the dust
of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of
life." The mist was caused by heat (fire) evaporating the
water and moderating the cold. Hence only as fire entered
as a third constituent of the earth could man be made "of the
dust of the ground." Since to manifest in each world the
Soul must necessarily build up a vehicle or body composed of
the substance of that world, to manifest on earth a body
must be perfected composed of the materials of the earth or
literally "of the dust of the ground" ere the Soul can function
here. Since man then contained all the elements of manifes-
tation he became a Microcosm or Cosmos in miniature. Thus
it is that Shin completes man. "As above, so below." No
creation can be completed until the force of Shin or heat has
done its perfect work.
The whole process of the Three Mothers creating in matter
is illustrated in the maldng of pottery. Here the earth or
clay is mixed with air, then water is added until it can be
moulded into form and finally it is burned in a kiln that the
fire may purify, harden and make permanent the form, just
as the heat of the mother's kiln or womb, where it remains
for its period of completionlO lunar monthsis necessary
298 The Key of Destiny
to perfect the form of the child. Again, just as Mem, the
Mother-love, completed the creation, so in Shin only when man
and woman are truly joined in one can the fire of Divine Love
purify and solidify and complete their formation as "the twain
who are made one flesh."
The Kabalists in their usual minute analysis have compared
the effect of heat in separating, distributing and preparing all
things in creation, to the use of the teeth in masticating food
and preparing it for assimilation.
The two sounds S and H (Samech a prop and He a win-
dow or eye) both refer to man. Hence we must look at this
letter as the final creation which makes of man the window
or eye through which all the lower kingdoms may look
towards God the Creator, and also as their prop or their sponsor
to God. Also, as the quotation which heads this chapter tells
us, this letter or fire "seals the heavens" through the power
of the Sun, the eye of the world. In man the head contains
the principal heat centers of the body. Yet only as these cen-
ters are bathed in the pure blood-stream from the heart does
the head become the distributor of heat to the body.
Hieroglyphically Shin expresses a vibration from one pole
to another, with a point of equilibrium in the center, hence it
is a sign of relative duration, i.e., the vibration of love between
man and woman is but a vibration from that creative fixed
point of equilibrium (the creative Dot) which is permanent
THE TWENTY-FIRST TAROT CARD.
!iVo Number.
"chance1 as taught by Cornelius Agrppa, is in
reality an unknown progession, and time but a suc-
cession of numbers."Euiphas Lév.
The twenty-first card of the Tarot is called the "Unnum-
bered Card," also "The Fool" In this card we see a young
man pictured -as wearing a fool's cap as his Crown of Life.
His clothes, although gaudily bedecked as to surtout, which
is adorned with the fool's bells, are nevertheless badly torn,
his trousers scarcely covering his nakedness. Yet he goes
Pa pus
THE 21sT TAROT CARD
LLE FOO1
MEDIEVAL TYPES Popu,
3*
11
1Å
LEFOU
Sm,th
MODERN TYPE
St. Germain
EGYPTIAN TYPE
Shin 299
carelessly on his way, paying no attention to a dog which is
biting his leg (the power by which he stands firm and pro-
gresses). The dog symbolizes his animal nature which at this
step he has subdued, and because he has made it his friend to
follow at heel, he heeds not its playful bites, yet nevertheless
it interferes considerably with his ongoing.
He carries in his right hand and uses for a walking stick
the rough limb of a tree instead of the straight wand or Rod
of Power which his Initiation in the twentieth card conferred
upon him. In his left hand he carries a forked stick cut from
a tree. This he awkwardly carries over his right shoulder,
while dependent from its forks hangs a wallet. There is a
well established belief in the power of such a forked limb
to assist in magical ceremonies such as locating water, gold
or other metals beneath the earth (dousing). Such a stick
is called a divining rod. The point where the two forks meet
being the point of balance or equilibrium, one who has reached
the step symbolized by the twenty-first card should, through
correlating with the equilibrium in his own nature, be able.to
assert his power over nature. But this foolish youth has
used the crotch of his divining rod as a convenient place to
carry a wallet or he has perverted his powers to attain gold
and supply his personal needs.
He is unthinkingly approaching a precipice where a croco-
dile is waiting to devour him. The crocodile is a well known
symbol of esoteric wisdom, and in very truth it will devour
every one who, having reached this step and passed a great
Initiation yet who, instead of absolutely subordinating and
ruling his animal desires, permits them to follow at heel, play-
fully biting at his legs, or who endeavors to take them with
him on the Path in the role of friends and companions in-
stead of servants, thus allowing them to distract him and im-
pede his progress.
Since the Tarot has always been called the "Book of Life,"
and since this is the twenty-first card, the next to the highest
of the series representing the entire evolution of man, and fol-
300 The Key of Destiny
lowing directly after the card of Initiation, it could not possibly
refer to primitive man as claimed by certain writers.
The primary meaning of the word "fool" is not that of an
imbecile or even an ignoramus, but "one who acts without
judgment"; in other words, one who knows better yet does
not govern his acts by his knowledge. One who is lacking
in knowledge or mental capacity is not a fool: he is merely
ignorant or mentally defective.
Therefore, in spite of this card being called the Fool it
must refer to an advanced Disciple, one who has struggled
to attain but having attained does not use his knowledge
wisely; one who has reached great heights yet, when sub-
jected to the subtle temptations of the higher selfishness and
desire for power, has fallen and therefore deserves the ad-
monition given to the Church of Sardis, "I know thy works,
that thou basta name that thou livest (i.e., still appears before
the world as one who has attained), and art dead (i.e., has
failed).. . . Remember therefore how thou hast received and
heard, and hold fast, and repent."1 It represents that "exceed-
ing high mountain" of spiritual attainment where the Christ-
man receives his supreme temptations, but in this case has
failed in the temptation of power. He boasts of his power over
nature's forces, of his ability to interpiet her laws, to bring
from her depths her hidden treasures to enrich those who
acknowledge his leadership. He boasts loudly of his power
over his own animal nature and takes pleasure in showing the
world his contempt for conventionalitysymbolized by the
exposure of his persontalking loudly of the purity he has
won, hence the needlessness of proper clothing to cover his
nakedness. Yet on his head the fool's cap proclaims aloud the
utter fallacy of his pretensions, and sooner or later the waiting
crocodile will devour him.
This card therefore symbolizes the negative or Left Hand
Path of one who has through laborious effort climbed to the
heights of Initiation yet has fallen. And verily such a one is
iii. 1.3.
Shin 301
no number, for when the crocodile devours him his name will
be blotted oùt of the Book of Life for this world-period and
he must begin the dimb all over again in future eons.
CHAPTER XUV.
The Number 22. Tnz NEW JERUSALEM.
«Awake, awake; put on thy strength, 0 Zion; put
on thy beautiful garments, 0 Jerusalem, the holy
city; for henceforth there shall no more come into
thee the uncircumsised and the undean."Isouzh,
lii,L
"In thirty-two wonderful Paths of Wisdom did
Jah, Jehovah, Tzabaoth, the God of Israel, the
Elohim of the living, the King of ages, the merciful
and gracious God, the most exalted One, the Dweller
in eterijity, most high and holyengrave his name
by the three SepharimNumbers, Letters and
Sounds. Ten are the ineffable Sephiroth, Twenty-
two are the Letters, the Foundation of all things."-
Sepher Yetzirah, 15.
Number 22 is the last of the numbers under consideration
in this work in which we have followed to its logical conchs-
sion the entire Path of Evolution, both of man and the Cos-
mos as revealed in the 22 letters of the Hebrew Alphabet.
And we find this number 22 equals 2+2=4 or the foundation
of a never ending spiral of manifestation. For just as all
numerical calculation is but the continuation and rearrange-
ment of the ten digits, all of which are contained in the 4
(1+2+3+4=10), so we must build upon our fourfold foun-
dation Eternal Progression.
The 4 made up of 2 plus 2, now to be considered in this
number, is the perfect balance of man and woman and their
joint creations. This is the White Stone which is the four-
square foundation of the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, of
which we read: "And I John saw the holy city, New Jeru-
salem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a
bride adorned for her husband."
In The Key to the Universe we started with the circle which
represented the Garden of Eden in which was found every
tree that was pleasant to the sight and good for food, and in
1Rgj,ngjnjj, XXI. 2.
The New Jerusalem 303
the midst of this wonderful unmanifested Garden (circle) was
the Tree of Life (Dot within the cirde). But while this
Garden contained all the things needed for man's evolution, he
was forbidden to eat of the Tree of Life in its midst lest he
die. We have shown2 that this was not a cruel temptation
nor an unescapable prohibition or "don't," for it only asked
of infant man that he dabble not with this mysterious Dot
within the circle, because in reality it was not a mere spark
of light, but the end of a tremendous battery of force whose
creative energy, if used under the guidance of his Divine
Teachers, could be used gradually to develop and unfold all
his God-powers. But in his early days of ignorance as to what
life-forces were needed and how they should be used, this was
too dangerous a center to be played with. Man was like a
child who had been placed in a room with a powerful electri-
cal apparatus which was to be used for his education and who,
until the teacher could explain and the child comprehend,
was told not to touch it lest it kill him; for only as be was di-
rected how to use it by his teacher (the Lord God) could it
yield to him its wonderful power with safety to himself.
We have seen disobedient man, like a foolhardy child, eat-
ing the unripe fruit of the Tree, turning on the force of the
unknown apparatus and suffering from the consequences. Like
unripe fruit it brought sickness and death, and like uncon-
trolled power it created many horrid and malign travesties of
that which was intended. And yet through all the resulting
horror of creation perverted we have seen the superhuman
patience of the loving Father, who planted the Tree and who
let the Light shine as the Dot, never condemning or punishing
his disobedient children. Through all the subsequent sick-
ness, deformity and death which came upon them, as the in-
evitable result of their refusal to follow their Divine Guid-
ance and their consequent misuse of their forces and the ma-
terials given them, we have seen the Father using all His
2 See page. 68, 107.9.
304 The Key of Destiny
powers of Divinity to help and guide, succor and teach His
children, never turning a deaf ear to their cries for help.
We have seen Him sending all the magical forces of the
universe to turn the experience of their mistakes into good;
to heal their self-inflicted wounds and cure their self-created
diseases; to unfold them and draw them Godward, that out of
the very suffering which their creation of evil entailed they
should the more quickly realize the outpouring of Divine Love
and Compassion, as a loving Mother nurses and comforts the
disobedient child who has burned itself by playing with fire,
in spite of her positive warning. In short, "God so loved the
world that he gave his only begotten Son (the divine One
Life) that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but
have Eternal Life. For God sent not his Son into the world
to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might
be saved." The mandate "Thou shalt surely die" was a bless-
ing, for to live eternally in the chaos man's disobedience had
created would have meant the eternal torment and suffering of
imperfection. Everlasting Life must be the harvest of many
deaths.
By the help of numbers we have followed man step by step
as he slowly and laboriously learned his great lessons; learned
to recognize and appreciate the Divine Love that has provided
every help for his upward climb and has never wavered in its
forgivenesses; that has cleared his eyes, dimmed by many
tears, that he may see the Guiding Hand ever held out if he
would but look up and grasp it. The wonderful perfected
Eden is his destiny and at every step, often in the darkest
depths of despair, has its vision been glimpsed by the dying,
even by the degraded, so that in spite of all the evil man has
wrought and all the impediments he has ignorantly placed in
his path, as we have followed him through the numbers we
have seen man grow wise by his very suffering. By this time
he has grown obedient and loving, or at least the few have
who have reached this point, which all will some day attain.
Like Jobq Ibe Revelator, who symbolizes the spiritually ii.
The New Jerusalem 305
lumined intellect õf man, at last all shall see the New Jeru-
salem descend from heaven and will know it for the same
perfect Eden, once lost yet ever vaguely sought for, now no
longer a Cirde of unmanifested possibilities with its Tree of
Life but a Dot, for the circle has been squared and "the taber-
nade of God is with men and he shall dwell with (in) them."
For now "It lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the
breadth: . . . the length and the breadth and the height of it
are equal."3 The cross has been folded up into a cube.
The inner esoteric meaning 9f squaring the Circle is the per-
fect balancing of man and woman or 22, each a dual being,
and from their spiritual evolution evolving the reed or the Rod
of Power with which the Angel in each may measure the Holy
City. And as they find their new home and dwell in it, they
find the Tree of Life has grown into a dual tree growing on
both sides of the River of Life, and that it bears 12 manner
of fruit, and yields its fruit every month for the healing of
the nations. They find that the Light has descended and lo,
the Lord God is the light thereof, "and there shall be no more
death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any
more pain: for the former things are passed away . . . Be-
hold, I make all things new."
As we have said elsewhere:4
"The New Jerusalem is a citysymbol of a large body of
peoplewhose inhabitants are all striving to square their lives
and lay their Foundation Stone of Spiritual Understanding
four-square. In the world today all the signs of the times
show that the New Jerusalem is coming down out of heaven
and is even now beginning to manifest It is descending
surely and steadily into manifestation on earth, just as fast
as the understanding of the Law of unselfish Co-operation
grows and spreads in the consciousness of one here and there,
then in a community, then in a city and finally in the world
as a whole. Today the lives that are founded upon the Rock
S Revektioii, XXI. 16.
4Sec lesson 7k Rock of Sj'untsoJ Usdrnlasdusg. Coitus.
306 The Key of Destiny
of the Spiritual Understanding of this Law are in the minority,
but some day they will be in the majority. Then will they be
the ones who set the standard ad make the laws; who direct
the business, control the wealth of the world and see that it is
administered for the common good. This will be brought
about as soon as each has learned to furnish his mansion and
allow all others to furnish their mansions according to their
own ideals, yet all co-operating instead of quarreling across the
necessary boundaries which separate their individual homes.
"Every form of intelligent co-operation for the common
good helps to hasten the manifestation of the New Jerusalem.
But we cannot have intelligent co-operation until each works
with some spiritual understanding of the Law. Each must be
willing to face conditions and eat and digest the lessons they
contain. These conditions will then no longer form a dense,
hard unhewn stone, but rather something firm and dependable,
a manifestation whose understanding will unlock the mysteries
of life. Try to form a mental picture of this New Jerusalem,
this City of God, descending to earth to replace the civilization
which now prevails. You will then see that you must be up
and doing. Those who are content to sit with folded hands
and merely cry for bread must stand aside and be left behind
while the live, active workers attend to "their Father's busi-
ness" if Bolshevism, or the rule of ignorance and selfishne.cs,
is not to delay the establishment of the New Jerusalem.
"We are told that in the Holy City there is no night. What
is night? It is a time of rest and recuperation, of gathering
and storing up the forces for the new day. At first thought
it would seem that with no night the New Jerusalem would be
a tiresome and exhausting place. But in the splendour of that
inner Light your forces are ever renewed. You are never
weary because it is not you who are doing the work, but the
power of the Christ working through you. Also here there
will be no depressing night-periods of the Soul.
"The Stone of Understanding is your eternal and enduring
foundation, the soil into which you sink your roots and thereby
The New Jerusalem 807
draw upon the forces of the entfre universe. Upon it you
can rest in calm assurance and know neither weariness nor
faintheartedness, for you are able to soar above the perplexing
problems of physical manifestation into the higher Realms,
into the Light of the Holy City, and gain greater light, re-
newed youth, strength and the power to accomplish. Hence
you look forward not to a day of everlasting toil with no rest,
but to a great Sabbath Day of Rest in which you, as Children
of the Light, are sitting in the centre of the circle, beholding
all your labors that they are good. In your heart is the
eternal Light of Truth, the Wisdom of Divine Guidance and
the creative Spark of Divinity that can bring all things to
pass."
CHAPTER XLV.
The New Jerusalem (continued).
"Learn what we who descend from the Primordial
Seven, we who are born from the primordial Flame
have learnt from our fathers... . Listen, ye son5 of
Earth, to your instructorsthe Sons of Fire.
Learn, there is neither first nor last; for all is One
number issued from no-number."--Stonzas Dyan,
- iv, 2-1.
While the numbers have thus symbolized the grand allegory
of the unfoldment of individual man, the allegory also has its
application to humanity as a whole, namely, the Race must
have its New Jerusalem manifested on earth in a perfect and
divinely ruled City. Just as the physical city of Jerusalem
symbolizes tIi spiritually undeveloped civilization of its time
the word Jerusalem means "The City of Peace"so does the
New Jerusalem symbolize an advanced civilization ruled by the
King of Peace through His representatives, the Masters of
Wisdom.
This New Jerusalem we are told must be clothed as a bride
arrayed for her husband, i. e., a true bride is not only
arrayed outwardly in her best apparel, but is also in-
wardly arrayed with love and devotion to her spouse, with
purity and singleness of purpose. She has chosen him from
all the world and is eager to devote her life to him. She also
is prepared to turn her back upon her old life and no longer
be known by her old name. Her spouse has given her a new
name, and a new life opens up before her. So will the New
Jerusalem, and all who enter in and find their home there, be
arrayed, both outwardly and inwardly.
As Jesus wept over Jerusalem, because her children re-
fused to respond to His loving desire to gather them together
as a hen gathereth her chicks, so in the New Jerusalem there
must be commensurate rejoicingfor his joy none taketh
from himover those who have responded to the call of the
The New Jerusalem 309
Christ and been gathered together under the wings of the
great Bird of Life.
It is fitting that the New Jerusalem for the Race should
begin its descent at this time. For the great Aquarian Age is
the woman's age and since, as we have said elsewhere,' "It
is woman's duty and privilege to array the bride, so must this
Bride of the Christ be arrayed by a manifestation of the femi-
nine qualities of love, compassion and intuition, expressed not
only by women but by the feminine aspect of men as well, crc
the New Jerusalem can find expression on the physical plane.
All students of the mysteries of life recognize that we are now
living in what has long been prophesied as 'the last days.'
Some find proof of this belief in the study of astrology, some
in occultism and some in other forms of mysticism. And even
Bible students who know nothing of its esoteric interpretation
recognize that the predictions of Daniel, Ezekiel, Joel, the
Apocalypse and otler prophetic books are being fulfilled in
the wars, rumors of warseven prohibition 2the earth-
quakes, tornadoes, floods and other physical catastrophies
that are devastating the world today. These are signs as
we have explained elsewhere,3 not of the destruction of the
planet, but of the dose of a certain great cycle. They
result from the natural process of purification and prepa-
ration of both humanity and the globe that must take place
crc the New Jerusalem can find conditions for its physical
manifestation as it descends from heaven. There must be
many and increasing changes in the climate and physical con-
ditions of the earth, as well as in human thought and relations,
and these changes will bring about what will seem to be great
disasters. But an understanding of the law of cycles will
show these disasters to be but the adjusting process of the
great Law of Justice. .
"The whole world today is a great testing ground for a
1 See le5son Tke New J.,ii,.Iem, Curtis,.
3Joe. I. 5.
1IL
The Phil.,.h, of War, Curtis.. a1.o The Message of Jquai-is. Curtis., Chapter
310 The Key of Destiny
similar ingathering. The world is the field and humanity is the
grain. The angels are the reapers and the harvest time is at
hand. Out of all the grains that grow in the fields of earth
comparatively few are fitted and ready to be made into the
Bread of Eternal Life. But it is just as possible, through the
scientific application of the laws of growth, to double and
treble the nutritive power of the spiritual grain as it is of the
physical grain. By spreading the truths of man's spiritual
heritage and the laws of his spiritual growth mankind can
consciously enrich the nutritive quality, multiply the quantity
and hasten the ripening of the spiritual grain.
"While the angels are the reapers, they need loving Souls
on earth who are eager, devoted, trained and ready to go out
into the fields and vineyards and bring the golden sheaves into
the granary of the Lord. We, individually and collectively,
who can recognize the times in which we live and the great
events foreshadowed in the heavens, must work with all our
hearts and minds and powers toward spreading the news of
the coming of the New Jerusalem. We must encourage, cheer,
uplift and teach all who will listen to the call of the Christ
that they may be gathered into the Great Center, the New
Jerusalem. This is no time for drones. For once we have
vowed allegiance to the Christ and His work the great Law
of the Universe will force us to fulfill our vows or pay the
penalty. Thus we must become either helpers and redeemers
of mankind or stumbling blocks in its path. If we refuse to
take a firm stand on the positive side of good, we are swept
into the negative current
"This terrible world war through which we have been pass-
ing is but the beginning of this great Day of Purification and
preparation. For as we build anew the old must be torn down,
as Jesus prophesied when he said, 'As for these things which
ye behold, the day will come, in which there shall not be left
one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.'4
4 SL Lvke. XXI. 6.
The New Jerusalem 311
This is being fulfilled today, for a stone is always used to
symbolize something on which to build or with which to build,
and we see almost every old conception on which man has
built the social fabric now tottering in business, politics, so-
ciety and religion. Nevertheless not one stone which is found
perfect and fit to be builded into the New Jerusalem shall be
thrown away or destroyed.
"Those Souls who pass out of incarnation in such catas-
trophies are those who are not yet ready to take their several
places in the new conditions that must prevail and hence are
removed to await the particular period in the new subrace
when their next step in spiritual evolution can find a more
perfect expression. Some may have learned the main lessons
and- accomplished their chief tasks in this cycle and pass out
that they may take up their life work again under the more
advanced and peaceful conditions of the future. Their re-
moval through the disasters of the closing cyde is due to their
being involved in the local or community-karma of the region
devastated."
"As the physical readjustments must inevitably present the
dark side of the picture, just so inevitably will the spiritual
readjustments present the bright side. The eyes of Christen-
dom are even now turned toward the establishment of new and
ideal conditions of industrial, social, political and religious life.
Since all things have their origin in the Divine World and
gradually descend to manifest on earth, this conception of an
ideal state for humanity is the natural result of the descent
into the thought-world of humanity of that which is symbolized
by the New Jerusalem, and all who can respond to such an
ideal are awakening to the possibility of its physical mani-
festation. Those whose psychic and spritual powers are de-
vped are able to grasp this ideal more or less clearly. They
realize that it is not merely an altruistic dream, but is literally
the descent of a new and higher state of civilization than any
the world has heretofore known."
Although but few of its inhabitants have as yet reached the
312 The Key of Destiny
period symbolized by 22, or balanced the two equilibrated
ends of the scale, the world is nevertheless building toward it,
and the few who have reached this point will naturally be the
leaders and establishers. So far in the world's history woman
has never had her full opportunity. In her side of the balance
has been heaped up so much heterogeneous falsity, and her
end has been so anchored by a hard and twisted rope of
prejudice and misconception, that when this rope is severed,
as is being done today strand by strand, both woman herself
and the world will begin to reap the Kanna thus released.
And as one after the other of the evilsand many of them
are man-madehidden in the feminine scale are brought to
the light, it will be like opening Pandora's box. For Pan-
dora was a fair type of woman in the aggregate. Was she
not heaven-made? All the God-powers contributed some-
thing to perfect her. Venus gave her beauty, Mercury per-
suasion, Apollo music, et cetera, yet when her curiosityor
let us say rather her desire to set man's mistakes right and
help clear things up, a desire she is expressing loudly today
made her take off the lid of the box, which contained the
left-overs from man's creations, forthwith there escaped a
multitude of plagues, leaving only hope behind.
Therefore let us not expect the Woman's Age to bring im-
mediate surcease from all our sorrows, for "there is nothing
covered, that shall not be revealed" and woman is proverbial
for uncovering and cleaning out corners and emptying re--
ceptacles of their trash. Let us rather help her not to replace
the lid and thus imprison all hope of betterment, but to en-
lighten the world and thus redeem the plagues she has let loose.
This is the day when the things hoped for must be realized,
when the Race must be willing to face its creations and redeem
them.
"The New Jerusalem has existed throughout eternity as a
perfect and ideal state of humanity, but it has only existed in
the Higher realms and only in our Higher Selves have we been
able to dwell in its mansions. If it is to become a reality upon
The New Jerusalem 313
the physical plane its manifestation must be accomplished by
the united efforts of all sincere and devoted followers of the
Christ who are awakened to this possibility. We must begin
with ourselves. Our hearts and minds and bodies must liter-
ally be made holy temples, sanctuaries of the Most High. The
first step then in this great coming of the Lord is to prepare
our tabernacles. It is useless to look forward to the founding
of an ideal city or center of civilization in some favored spot
on earth, where the gods or god-powers shall incarnate in a
perfected manhood and womanhood, where the Great Ones
shall teach mankind face to face and establish the reign of
love and justice, unless we begin the preparation for such
manifestations in our own hearts and minds and lives. For
unless we can build within ourselves sacred sanctuaries in
which the god-powers can dwell and manifest and enable us
to live in love and fellowship with our brothers and sisters,
how can we expect to associate with the Great Ones?
"At present so many of us are like the children of Israel,
captives in the land of Egypt, the land of darkness. We are
building we know not what, while cruel task-masters stand
over us with lifted lash. Sometimes even the straw with
which we must make our bricks is denied us, yet the tale of our
bricks is not lessened, the toil of our days is not shortened.
How then can we believe either in a Promised Land or in a
New Jerusalem? How can we rise up in the darkness of
Egypt, rebel against such conditions and set out for Caanan?
Just as did the Children of Israel. By following the word of
the Lord given through His chosen prophets. Had the Chil-
dren of Israel continued to toil and wait while Moses went to
the land of Caanan and brought back gold with which to buy
their freedom from Pharoah, or to bring them arms, raiment
and supplies for the journey or faith and courage to take the
first steps, had they demanded all these things crc they fol-
lowed the guidance of their leader, they would be slaves in
ligypt to this day.
"So is it in this present day. Moses and Aaron have ap-
314 The Key of Destiny
peared in our midst and have spoken the word of tin! Lord
'Arise! Get you up out of the land of Egypt, out of the house
of bondage, Toil no longer for the Egyptians, but enter into
the Promised Land.' The task is no mpre hopeless today than
thousands of years ago when the kings of Egypt ruled under
similar conditions. Begin then today to prepare your dwelling
place in the New Jerusalem. Fashion the ideal of the spiritual
and material life you would live, not for yourself alone, but
that you may be a factor for the upliftment of humanity.
Make your ideal concrete and perfect that the constructive
currents of life may pour into the mould you have made and
bring it forth in your life. Invoke the power of Truth and let
Truth dwell and manifest in you. Truth is more than merely
refraining from speaking falsely. It means being true in
every phase of your thoughts, desires and life, being true to
your Divine Self. Let Truth search out every hidden fault
and failing that you may recognize and correct it.
"Have no false conceptions, no veils to hide your real char-
acter from you. When you make your vows to your Higher
Self search diligently for the foundation stone of Truth. And
every time you touch it and the power of Truth thrills through
you, realize that you have transferred something of Truth
and Reality into the city of your dreams; have come a little
nearer to it; have laid another stone in your individual
dwelling place within its walls. But every time you are false,
every time the temptations of the world sweep over you and
you give way to them, you build a stone into the wall of
separation that shuts you out from the Immortal City."
As we bid farewell to our readers who have journeyed with
us along this mystic Path of Attainment, we wish to leave an
added word of hope and encouragement. There is a little
prayer taught to children with which we are all familiar:
"Four corners to my bed. Four angels round my head. One
to watch and one to pray and two to drive all harm away.
Mathew, Mark, Luke and John bless the bed that I lie on." Let
our consolation be the assurance that the bed we lie on is the
The New Jerusaleni 315
fourfold foundation of life, the 22 or the 2X2=:4, the City of
Peace in which we must ultimately dwell, and can dwell and
find our rest in thought even now. The 4 angels who guard
this bed, i. e., the bed-rock on which our City of Peace is built,
are the same great mystical angels alluded to in our Key to
the Universe. These Angelic Powers are not only the four
pillars by which all the physical world is upheld and evolution
brought to perfectionbecause the 2+2=4 is always there
like the everlasting armsbut they manifest in us in a very
definite way.
The ancient teaching is that the 4 angels abide, two in our
eyes; the right eye to watch, the left eye to pray or help the
inner mystical vigil; and two, who drive all harm away, in
the two nostrils which through the power of the life-breath
can so fill our aura with the spiritualized Breath of the Spirit
that literally no evil thing can come nigh our dwelling, if we
consciously breathe in Divine Aspiration and the Fire of the
Christ-force, and breathe out Peace on earth good will toward
men. Then shall the Great Ones come.
It should be noted that the book of Revelation contains
22 chapters and that the 22nd chapter paints with glowing
colors a picture of the New Jerusalem that cometh down
from heaven which awaits every Pilgrim who has success-
fully traversed the weary Path of Evolution and who has
thus completed his or her task and fulfilled the prophecy,
"And they shall bring the glory and honor of the nations
into it." This means that each victorious Candidate who
has reached 22 and entered the New Jerusalem has not only
brought into its gates the perfected fruits of his own experi-
ences and victories, but has also brought the sheaves of his
harvest in the world, that out of which he has garnered the
glory and honor of work well done. For he has sown the
seeds of Christ-life, Light and Joy in the hearts of others
and they have sprung up and borne a rich harvest. And he
now fearlessly enters in, lnowing only too well that "There
shall in no wise enter into it anything that deflleth, neither
316 The Key of Destiny
whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they
which are written in the Lamb's book of life."1 He knows
well that before he enters in he must divest himself of all
false conceptions, all binding forces, all things that tend to
make a lie or that can mislead or cause another to be defiled
or that can work abomination. He also knows that all those
things he has had to overcome in himself through battles
fierce and discouraging. His spiritual emanations and out-
breathings must bless whomsoever touches his garment, and
like a pure crystal stream flow from him to help irrigate the
desert fields of earth life.
Having mentally, at least for a moment, left behind us all
these bars to our entrance into this City of the Soul, let us
together stand for a moment on Mount Patmos and behold
its glories; for we do not have to die to earth to enter this
City of Peace, although we die many deaths ere we glimpse
the vision, for death means change of manifestation, and as
we face the Light and progress we must change, just as thel
plant changes as it progresses under the influence of the light.
The vision reveals to us the pure River of the Water of
Life proceeding out of the Throne of God, i.e., we see and
realize as never before that from God cometh our life, and
like a deep flowing river it enriches the city of our abiding
place. We also see that life is now no longer a devious path
winding ever uphill, passing through valleys and dark canons,
bogs and quicksands, but has now become a great street, wide
and bright and paved with gold. In its midst is the won-
derful Tree of Life standing on either side and in the midst,
i.e., the fulfillment of the perfected duality of earth; the
perfection of the individuality and the realization of the one-
ness with the complementary mate, each standing on an oppo-
site side of the streetpositive and negativeyet absolutely
one in the midst, i.e., in the Spirit. We see this Tree bearing
the 12 perfected fruits of the iodiacal forces, each bringing
its own blessing of healing to the nations. For the moment
1Revel.io,,. xxL 27.
The New Jerusalem 317
we correlate with the forces (blessings) of the signs the
curse is removed and all its evils transmuted.
We see this perfected couple which we first saw in Eden,
now no longer blaming each other for their failures and
mistakes, but wise and loving, recognizing that through their
mistakes they have learned mighty lessons and grown strong,
bowing before the Throne, i.e., the seat of the Divine Life
and Guidance, and before the Lamb or the perfected and
cleansing power of the Divine Life-force, in their own hearts.
Here verily "they shall see his face," for they have attained
the fulfillment of their oft-repeated Prayer for Light.
"0 Christ! Light Thou within my heart the Flame of Divine
Love and Wisdom, that I may dwell forever in the radiance
of Thy countenance and rest in the Light of Thy smile."
"And his name (number) shall be in their foreheads," i.e.,
the radiant look of one who has gazed into the Divine Radi-
ance, a mark no one, not even the beasts of the field, can
fail to recognize. "And there shall be no night there," for
when the Christ-within smiles all the world smiles with us,
and by the radiance of His presence all the dark places are
made bright.
John tells us that when he would have worshipped the
Angel who showed him all these things the Angel said: "See
thou do it not: for I am thy fellow-servant, and of thy breth-
ren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this
book (of life): worship God." This is one of the most
illuminating texts in the Bible, and as we bid each other fare-
well let us carry its meaning with us, i.e., the one who can
point out to us the Path is an Angel (messenger) of God,
no matter of how lowly a degree, our fellow pilgrim on the
Path, our brother, our sister, one who reaches out hands of
fellowship and helpfulness crying aloud: "Come with me.
Let us together see that we may know?' For just asno one
can make a thirsty horse drink even after leading him to
the water, so no one can open our spiritual eyes and make
us see the glories of the Holy City, although we may have
318 The Key of Destiny
been led to the Mount of Vision and been told of its glories.
"He which testffieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly.
Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus."
Also 22 when divided by 7 gives approximately p or the
ratio between the diameter e of a circle and its circumference, or
the relation of the 1 God to His manifested universe. The
Pi=3.141+
22-.7=3.142-I-.
CHAPTER XLVI.
The Twenty-second Letter TAU (fl).
NThe Twenty-second Path is the Faithful Intelli-
gence and is so-called because by it spiritual virtues
are increased, and all dwellers on earth arc nearly
under its shadow"Sepher Yetziroli, 30.
"He produced Tan, and referred to it Beauty;
He crowned it, combined and formed with it
Jupiter in the Universe, the Seventh Day of the
week, and the mouth of man."Sepher Yetzirah, 22.
The Twenty-second letter of the Hebrew alphabet is Tau
(Tb). Its meaning is "The sign of the Cross" and it is
assigned to Jupiter. It is a double letter just as the cross is
both crucifixion and redemption. Also the double force of
Jupiter is the power to rule, either in righteousness, as the
Father of the Gods, or through ambition and worldly might.
Like the Tau, the power of Jupiter can only be manifested in
its fullness as the Jupiterian becomes a true ruler, when
through much suffering and service he has at last found the
perfect balance and given up his spirit of ambition and self
into the bands of the Father, and with Jesus can cry: "It is
finished. Into thy hands I commend my spirit." This letter
is assigned also to Beauty, i. e., the Beauty of Holiness or of
wholeness. Its opposite expression is the deformity of sin and
imperfection.
In astronomy this letter represents the Sun, owing no doubt
to the Myths of the Sun Initiation associated with the cross.
In The Voice of the Silence, Tau is called the Fourth Path
that leads to the Fourth Truth. "Hast thou not entered Tau,
the 'Path' that leads to knowledge"? The meaning of this letter
is well expressed in this sentence, for the Tau marks the final
Path to Liberation, just as the crossa Christianized Tau
represents the final redemption. Like 22 it is the square
foundation which, laid in bitterness and crucifixion and planted
in the mire of earth, still frees the Christ-wan. And the words
119
320 The Key of Destiny
"It is finished" form the triumphal cry which this letter pro-
claims. When this is accomplished it becomes no longer the
Tou or cross of crucifixion, but the perfectly balanced cross
of spiritual power.1
THE TWENTY-SECOND TAROT CARD.
The World.
Because the previous card, "The Fool," is called "no
number"although it bears the twenty-first letter, Shin
many writers have called "The World" the twenty-first card.
This we regard as a grave error of judgment, for not only
does this card bear the twenty-second letter, Tau, but its
symbology is in no way expressed by 21, but u fully ezpressed
by 22. We therefore feel justified in calling it the twenty-
second card.
In this card we find the picture of the oval shaped
wreath of one who has conquered. This is the egg-shaped
aura symbolizing the great mystery of creation held sacred
in all ages; for all things come forth from an egg,2 whether
surrounded by a limestone shell, as in birds; a woody
husk, as in seeds and nuts, or a fleshly membrane, as in man
and the animals. The egg contains all the nutriment and Hf e-
forces that will be needed to bring forth, and this is equally
true of the aura (egg) of the Spiritual Man and of the Uni-
verse. "The Radiant Egg, in itself a symbol of Universal,
Abstract Naturemeant spiritual conception and birth, or
rather the re-birth of the individual and his regeneration."3
Hence in this card we find an egg-shaped aura composed
of leaves all turning downward toward the earth, showing
that the symbol is meant to be all-inclusive and final embracing
the idea both of the macrocosm and the microcosm, since it
is a well known legend that the Tree of Life has its roots
I For desczipton of T&u a the Path. lee The Voice of 1w, Curtis,. page 320.
also The Key to the Uwivevse, Curtisa. 135-140.
'See The Ke. to the Uiiiver:e. Curtis,, 43-4.
'The Secret .boctrsite Blavatsky. U. 492-4.
'tI
St. Germa
EGYPTIAN TYPE
THE 22ND TAROT CARD
THE WORLD
Smtli
MODERN TYPE
'à4,
't(
21 I.E NONE fl
Papui MEDIEVAL TYPES
Tint 321
in heaven and grows downward, its leaves and fruits being
brought forth on earth.
Within this egg, with which the numbers began,4 we have
seen the Dot expand and evolve until it is now represented by
the Divine Mother, fully manifested, naked and very young,
e., now fully brought forth in perfection on earth (22)
and standing with her legs crossed. Her hands are held in
the attitude often called the "sign of esotericism," described
elsewhere. In her left, which is raised, she holds the Magic
Wand in the form of a Lingham. "The Hindu Lingham is
identical with Jacob's 'Pillar'most undeniably. But the dif-
ference, as said, seems to consist in the fact that the Esoteric
significance of the Lingham was too truly sacred and meta-
physical to be revealed to the profane and the vulgar." $
To the profound student who is approaching this step, this
gives a hint of what it is and how the Magic Wand will bring
the balance, if his mind be free from all impurity and the
Wand be uplifted in the left hand of the Great Mother of
Divine Purity, i. e., the hand which marks accomplishment
through inner and finer forces. Mark this well, for were the
Linghani held in the right hand it would be a phallic symbol.
Her right hand is held towards the earth that the earth may
bring forth its fullness and blessing.
In the four corners of the card are the four apocryphal ani.
mals, namely the Man or Angel (Aquarius), the Lion (Leo),
the Eagle (Scorpio), and the Ox (Taurus). These signs have
been fully described elsewhere.4 The configuration of these
four beasts as they are called also gives a hint as to what the
so often alluded to and so little understood expression, "the
great task of man," means, ic., to square the circle.5 For it is
the forces of these four symbolic beasts which must be balanced
and made cornerstones in the life. The force of toil and
patience and perseverance of the Ox, the strength and courage
of the Lion and the task of taming him, form the lower corners
3The Key to the U,uvevse, Curth!. 26. 35.
4 See The Key S. Slit LJ,.,verse Curtiu. 144-7.
41bd. 150.
322 The Key of Destiny
on which our Eggout of which our spiritual birth is to come,
is upheld, and on which it rests during its term of incubation.
Upon this foundation the man who has evolved his wingshis
ability consciously to soar at will into the higher realmsand
manifested angelic virtues, and the Eagle, which is the uplift-
ing of the Scorpion, are the forces which must cover the Egg
with the wings of the angel and the eagle and guard and bring
it forth, thus making it 4 square. Also the position of the
feet of the figure in the center of the card represents the Tau,
as well as the figure 4, and symbolizes that only by way of the
cross, with its 4 ends made square and balanced, can we reach
this point of development.
A
Abderos, symbol of, 98.
Above, as, so below, 125.
Acts, quoted, 195.
Adam, the senses, 68.
Adversary, 293.
Age, Aquarian. 9, 36. 203, 309' Arian,
Taurian, l'iscean, 36, 66-8; 3few, 47;
Golden, 172; of children, 54-5-8, 66;
of Jesus, 54; of 30 years, 91; Pis-
cean, 66-8; Tauriasi, 95; woman's,
309, 312.
Ages, clock of, 37-8.
Alkmene, 78.
Amazons. 99.
Amphitryon, 78,
Angel, meaning of, 245. 287; good and
bad, 281; reapers, 310; the Four,
314.
Annus, Magnum, 35.
Antajos, Antares, 111.
Antares, 111.
Aphrodite, symbol of, 80.
Apollo, gift of, 81-9, 90; prophecy of,
108.
Apolloisiss, quoted, 7.
Apples, the golden, 106-8-9-110-113.
Aquarius, labor of, 90; letter and, 259;
sign, 9, 262 321; start out, 66; stone
of, 10; to Know, 81.
Arcadia, symbol of, 91.
Ardor, misapplied, 97.
Ariadne, 95.
Aries, intellectual activity, 98; labor
of, 97; sign, 43-4 172.
Ark, symbol of z1
Arm, symbol of: 70-4.
Arrow, the poisoned, 90.
Artemus, doe of, 88-9.
Asteria, 267.
Astral, currents, 156, 208: guidance.
Ill; shells, 127, 139, 142; tempta-
tions, 111, 248.
Astrologers, calculations, 35,
Astrology, Its Te.chiags and Ethics,
quoted, 48.
Athens, present of, 81; symbol of, 80.
Atlas, 112.
Atom, the Permanent, 17.
Atoms, gathered, 22; new, 19.
Avatar, coming, 36-7; descends, 48;of
Vishnu, 157; Piscean, 67; preparatIon
for, 197; the KalId, 144.
Aura, 286-7.
Axis, changed, 267.
B
Balance, Libra the, 107; meaning of,
252, 275 312; our minds, 71.
Baldor, ià.
Beads, 37.
Bee-hives, 37.
Beast, mark of, 48, 25S; number of,
254-7.
Beasts, symbolize, 99; the Four, 321.
Begotten, the only, 121-2.
BeJh,ir. warning of. 71, 180.
INDEX 323
Bible, interpretation of, 196; origin of,
Bird, symbol of 92-7, 254.
Birds, of Stynipialos, 91.
Blavaisky, Mmc., 291.
Blood, bathe in 260; of bulls and
goats, 95; of òlrist, 53, 173; drink,
129; of Jacob, 43; of Lamb, 34, 171-3
230' of solar system, 8; rivera 01
sbeå, 9; Saviors shed, 118.
Boar, the Erymanthian, 89.
Bodhisattva, 290.
Body, spiritual, 20.
Bolshevism 98, 257, 306.
Book of (owcealed Mysteries, quoted,
134-6.
Book of Enoch, quoted, 29, 157, 170.
Bousiris binds Hercules, 112,
Bow, 1 Apollo, 81-90.
Bread, loaves of, 159; of Life, 128,
310; spiritual, 126, 135.
Breath, control of, 269, 296; number of
the, 10; of Life. 11.
Breast, centers behind, 101.
Breastplate of Ifephaistos, 81; of high
ricst, 4i
Brick, 276, 313.
Bride, 308.
Bull, 4pis, 95; symbology of, 80, 94;
the Cretan, 94.
Business, the Father's, 55.
C
Cairns, 47.
Cancer, 21, 176 257' the sign, 88.
Capricorn, cradle, 62, 172; labor of,
112-3; letter and, 219; manger,
221-3; the goat, 94, 221.
Card, the 11th, Strength, 28' 12th,
hanged Man, 73; 13th, DeatL, 145;
14th, Temperance, 164; 15th, Devil,
209; 16th, Tower, 221; 17th, Star,
243; 18th, Moon, 260; 19th, Sun,
273; 20th Judgment, 286; 21st, Fool,
298; 22n, World, 320.
Cards, playing 131.
Carlyle, quoted, 127.
Cattle, of Hades, 112; symbolize, 105;
the red, 103.
Celibacy, 253.
Centaur, 90-2, 206.
Center, an earthly, 313.
Cerberus, capturing, 113; hound, 103,
261; sop to, 105.
Challenge, the Christ, 111-2,
Cheiron, 90.
Child, at 12, 55-6-8, 292; symbolizes.
100.
Christ-consciousness, Mrth of, 18.
Christ, cosmic, 124, 191; power of, 281,
Christ Myth, quoted, 123.
Christianity and Mythology, quoted,
51-4, 124.
Cbzysaor, l0&
City the holy 68.
ClocI. of the Ages, 37-8,
Club, of Hercules, 81.
Colcbis, lamb of, 123.
Communication, independent, 128,
324 lndez-Continued
Conditiesia, boa to change, 13.
Consciousness, Cosmic, 223.
Cooperation, 306.
I Coriiitkiows, quoted, 16, 79.
Corners, to bed. 314.
Corpora-quadrigeinina, 220.
Cosmic Symboissse quoted, 115.
Countenance the Jast, 134-9, 215.
Crab, syinbo, 262.
Creator-God, 118-9.
Critics, higher, 119-20, 121.
Crocodile, 299.
Cross, and cube, 305; sign
Cup, of fleios, 105.
Cupid, 217.
Cycle, of Manifestation, 1' metonic,
266; of Necessity, 6; of 1 266.
Cycles, within cycles, 12.
Cyclops, three, 96.
Cyrus, 180.
D
Dare, to, 80, 181-6-7.
Day., the last, 309.
Death., a blessing, 19; in disasters, 311;
result of, 20, 146; the Card, 145.
Decans, three, 10.
Decimal system, 30, 106; duo, 106.
Deep, the Great, 133-6, 143.
Deity, name of 62.
Desert, Gobi, 9.
Destiny, 208.
Dcvii, 174; entitized,
209.
Dbarinàkays, 290.
Dhyan Cbohans, 227.
Diana, 18.
Disciples, the, 49.
Diomedes, mares of, 97.
l)ionysoi, 123.
Dissster, 309; death in, 311.
Disease, 176, 303.
Divinity, the Snake, 137.
Do, to, 80, 181-7; it now, 241.
Dodccahedron, 30.
Doe, the Xeryneian, 88.
Dog, Cerberus, 103-5, 261; Ortboe the,
103.5, 261; symbolizes, 261, 299.
Dollar mark, 249.
Doors, to signs, 9, 33.
Dousing, 299.
Dragon, and Saturn, 110; becomes ser-
pent, 109; Geryon the, 109.
Druids, 266.
Duality, 280.
Dweller, the, 181, 293.
E
Eagle, number of, 11; Scorpio, 80, 162,
321.
Eating its place, 90.
Eden, 19 20, 108, 207, 303-4.
ldipus, Is.
Egg, all life from, 320-21.
E.ypt. .ymbol of, 74, 313.
Efementala, and number 6, 212; obey
thought, 115, 142, 227.
Elements, the four, 30.
Elijah, 46.
Elohini, the seven, 25-6.
of, 319.
179; the Card,
Enoch 160.
Equihnum, meaning of, 72. 252, 277l
point of 298-9.
Erebus, 169.
Erytheia, star, 103-9.
Esan, 79.
Ethiopians, 123.
Euphrates, 180.
Eurysthena. gave labors, 108.
Eurytion, shepherd, 103.
Euxuie, sea, 100.
Eve, intuition, 68.
Evil, calling, 208; creation of 175; do.
stroyed, 312; ciititized, 29i
Evocation, 127.
Evolution, number of, 84, 98, 302; of
the planet, 237; spiral path, 245.
Excalibur, sword, 3.
Exodus, quoted, 43, 74, 162.
Eye, of lower kingdoms, 298; of the
Order, 204; Open, 186, 219, 222;
third, 96, 219, 221, 284.
Esekiei, quoted, 70.
F
Faculties, psychic, 197.
Father-in-Heaven, 17.
Fear, effect of, 175.
Feast, marriage, 66; excuses for, 242.
Feet, bathed in blood, 260; symbolize,
Fire, Akashic, 285; comforts, 216 Di-
vine, 84, 90-6, 153, 296-7; in lble,
49; ordeal of 218, 222.
Firmament, 14i
Fish., hook, 259; shark, 158-9- symbol
of, 67, 157-9.
Flattery, 249.
Fleece, golden, 123.
Foundation, the mental, 148.
Forehead, symbolizes, 134.
Framieat., of a Faith ForgoU.is,
quoted, 52,
Fruition, 66.
C
Gadflies, symbol of, 105.
Gamblers, obsessed, 132.
Garnets, 10.
Gemini, labor of, 106; twins, 113.
Geii.sii, quoted, 46, 110, 206.
Geryon, the dragon, 109.
Geryoneus, monster, 103.
Girdle, of Hippolyte, 99; of Venus,
100.
Glamor, 249 252.
Goat, symbol of, 94 221-4.
Goat of Mendea, IL, 172, 256.
God, no; 280; Savior, 119; sons of,
121; within, 234, 280.
Good, and evil, 68.
Grail, holy, castle of the, 4.
Guardian, the, 182.
Guidance, astral, 111, 131 Divine, 131.
H
Hand, guiding, 304; symbol of. 26, 145,
210, 273-7.
Heart, of golar system, S.
Heaven, after death. 20.
Hebrews, quoted, 95.
Helion, cup of, 105; table, 123.
Hell 174.
Hcpfiaistos, gift of 81.
Hercules, a Sun-Gxl, 102; and Jacob,
78; as alkeidcs, 108; bound, 112;
club of, 81; the Hindu, 88; weapons
of, 81.
Hercules, labors of, 51; chapters XX-
XIII. 77; killing the Neinean Lion,
81; killing the Hydra, 83; capturing
the Keryneian Doe, 88; capturing the
Erymanthian Boar 89; cleansin& the
Augean Stables, 96; killing the thrds
of Stymphalos, 91; capturing the
Cretan Bull, 94- capturng the Mares
of Dioinedes, 9; seizing the Girdle
of IIppolyte, 99; capturing the Oxen
of Geryoneus, 103' obtaining the
Golden Apples of llesperides, 106;
carrying Cerberns from Ilades, 113.
Hermes, gift of, 81.
Ilesione 101.
iiesperiaes, apples of, 106; three
daughters, 109.
Hierarchies, diagram of, 253; definition
of, 233; planetary, 38, 53. 227, 231.
flierophants, 59, 60.
Higher Self, centers, 18; composed of,
Hippolyte, girdle of, 99.
Horns, symbol of, 88.
Horse, and rider, 206; symbol of. 92-7,
Horses of Zeus, 102.
Hound, the hell, 103; shepherd, 104.
Hour, eighth 237; influences of, 38;
fourth, 14k' fifth, 155; sixth, 181,
215; sevent 216; darkest, 179.
Hyacinths, 10.
Hydra the, 80' heads of the, 83.
Hyperfioreans 66.
flypophysis (crcbri, 285.
I
Ideals, make concrete 314.
Imagination, 164-3, 27.
Immaculate, meaning of 78.
Inunortality, in the flcsfI, 20.
Incarnation, stages of1 56; to complete
tasks, 311; under signs. 55-8, 81.
Incubi, 248.
Indians, American, Aztecs, Mayas,
Individuality, complete, 290. 291-2-3.
Initiate, Sun, 79, 91 1214, 144, 264,
278; temptations 1, 248.
Initiation, and ten, 106; at 15, 170;
great, 255, 299- number of, 84, 99;
second, 245 2514, 262; steps in, 77;
sun. 264 24, 319.
Initiator, Lreat, 5, 160, 231; accolade
of1 15.
Inspiration, 188, 274.
Intuition a Soul faculty 88; moon,
171 20; of woman, 274.
Iphikies, 79.
Isaiah, quoted, 162, 208.
Ishmael, princes of, 42.
Isis, 231.
Isis Unveiled quoted 43-9 103.
Island, of Atlantis, 27; of' Delo., 267;
of the West. 103: white. 266.
Israel, children of, 43; meaning of,
46.
3
Jacinth, 10.
Jacob, and Hercules, 78; sons of, 43-6.
Jakin and Boss, 251.
Jason, 123
Jerusalem, dimensions, 246; the New,
48, 53, 172, 230, 246, 302-8, 311.
Jesus, among disciples, 117, 123-6.
134-9' appearances of, 140; at 12.
292; Llood of, 173; life of, 120, 122-
4-5; life principles, 290.
Jewels on breastplate, 42.
Job quoted 80 160, 174, 183, 279..
Joel, quotej, 369.
Jonah, 158.
Jordan, baptism in 287; crossIng, 45,
123; stones in 45.
Joseph, not the lather, 78.
Joshua, 123, 161.
Judas, betrayer, 116, 129; meaning of,
Jupier, 11, 33, 319.
IC
KabaLs of Nembers, quoted, 1, 36, 58,
133-7, 170.
Kabbalak Unveiled, quoted, 62, 149,
252, 282.
Kalliroe nymph, 104
Kama, h9-20; world, 293.
ICaph, 26.
Karma, hand of, 71-24; Lords of, 10.!;
of mankind, 22 311; results from,
136; nnredeemej, 265, 290, 291.
Key to the Universe, quoted, 1. 18, 21-
9. 41 70 95, 106-7, 143, 212, 226,
246, 54-, 268, 286-7, 320-21.
I Kings. quoted, 42.4
11 Kings, quoted, 41.
Klingsor, 4.
Know, to, 81.
Kriyasbakti, 227.
Kundahni, 274.
L
Lsbyrinth1 95.
Lamb. Aries, 172; Easter, 123; of Col.
chis, 123; slain, 34, 171.3, 230.
Latona, I.egend of, 267.
Lazarus, 133.
Learning, a little, 13.
Legend, of white girl, 137.
Lemurians, 39.
Leo, symbology of, 28, 81; to Dare,
80.
Lesson, refusing. 102.
Letter, K, 26; L, 70; U, 143; N, 157;
P. 239; S. 206.
Letter, the 11th, Ka h 26; 12th. Lamed,
70; 13th Mew, 2 143-5, 296; 14th,
Nan, 117; 15th Samech, 206- 16th,
Ayin, 219; 17th, 1e, 239; 18th, Fzsdd,
259; 19th, Qoph, 272; 20th, Resk, 284;
21st, Shin, 23-4 296; 22nd, Tan, 319;
Aleph, 23-4, 96.
Letters, Hebrew, Introduction to, 23-4;
Lamed. 70.
Index-Continued 325
326 IndexContinued
Letters, double, 24: Jarvi,, 37; mother,
23-4 aimpl 24, 60.
LeviatLan, 15 0, 259.
Libra, 70; balance, 107; labor of, 89.
Life, elixir of. 135, 269-70, 288; Tree
of, 19, 67-8. 74, 303-5, 310; water
of. 9 10, 66, 80, 136.
Light earcr, 121.
Lightning, symbolized, 104.
Lion (Leo) Gate of the, 106; sIan, 82;
symbol 01, 28, 80, 321; the Nemcan,
8L
Liver, seat of desire, 112, 220.
Lives, the Fiery, periods of the, 18,
20, 21.
Loaves and fishes, 53, 66.
Lodge, Great White, 265.
Lola, myth of, 117.
Lotus, diagram of, 29; Jewel in the,
Lov Divine attained, 112; philters,
24-8.
Lungs, number of, 11.
M
If, letter of. 143-4-5.
Majority, physical, 55-6.8; spiritual,
291.
Makara. 144
Man, the celestial, 142; ebaracteriatics
of, 270; earth earthy 79; the
Hanged, 73; the Hcavcny place in,
16.
Manas. 148, 220.
Manifestation, Law of 118. 122.
Mares, of Diomedes, 47.
Mars, 33, 97; son of, 97, 111.
Mary, 144.
Masters, feminine, 288.
Materializations, 128.
Medicines,the Universal 63; use of, 19.
Mendes, boat of, 66, 113-4, 256.
Menoites, 113.
Mercury, 239, 277.
Meteors, streams of, 9.
Michael, 282.
Mind, phantoms of, 151; rational, 220;
spiritual, 16, 220; sub-conscious, 107;
super-conscious, 17. 107 234.
Minus, King of Crete 4.
Minotaur, symbol of, 9.
Mist, went up 297.
Money, use of, 249.
Months, Hebrew 6L
Moon path of, 160; symbol of, 165-70.
MoirJjr asd Dog,,.., quoted, 203.
Moses, age of, 44-5, 54; message of. 313-
14 named 145.
M.t1,r EzrtL, quoted, 9, 144.
Mother, the great, 32, 143, 217, 231,
296, 321.
Mothers, the three, 25, 144.
Mounts, three, 14.
Mussel shell, simile of 86.
Jtykenai, of, 89, los.
Mysteries, Eleusinian, 287.
Mystic, the true, 25.
Myth, the Sun 49, 54, 117, 124; not
primitive, 12.
JyIkokgy .f 411 Races, quoted, 77.
Myfkologp of She Ary.i, Nations,
quoted. 43, -
N
Name, in astral, 15; mystery, 14.
Name-numbers, 12-14.
Necromancy, meaning of, 133; number
of 127
Nepesch, 281.
Neptune, symbol of, 94-5.
Nereus, 111.
New Beginning no. 11 is a, 1, 9, 113.
Ni,mauokaya, hre-body, 2-21.
Nirvana, 291.
Nothing, I shall lose, 22.
Number, eight, curves of, 253; nine, 99;
of Beast, 254; six, 180, 215; ten, 106;
666, 254-7; 144,000 25 228, 245.
Number 11, chapters 1. it, III; A New
Beginning 1; Separation, 1' Reincar-
nation, 2; Differentiation, 4; Sin, 4;
Repentance, 4; evil reputation 5;
Achod, 6; M.u.s 6; Abyss of Ytre,
7; The Initiate, Óiapt. H; Aquarius,
9 Zeus, 10; pine and cedar, 11;
Iatthew, 11; Jupiter, 11; eagle, 11;
lungs, 11; transmutation, 16; letter
Kaph, 26; card Strength, 28,
Number 12, Chapters V-3Ç 29-76; Mani-
fested Universe, 29; in all rehgions,
42; jewels, 42; oxen of Elisha, 44;
stones from Jordan, 45; disciples, 49,
50-2; baskets full, 53; years of
54; masonic use of, 65; fruition.
letter Lsm.d, 70-2' card KasigeJ
Meat, 73; Jesus at, 92.
Number 13 Manifestor of the Uni-
verse, 11-6; complete cycle, 118; a
blessina, 134; sun in zodiac, 118, 123;
necromancy, 127; Saturn and, 136;
unlucky 115-6, 126, 132; seasons
and, 136; playing cards and. 130; the
Great Deep 133; waters of punish-
ment, 134-i vnity 136; rest, 136;
Snake Divinity, 13); weeks, 137; let-
ter Mess. 143- card, Death, 145.
Number 14, Iiental foundation, 148;
delusions, 152; Ring-pass-not, 155;
Nun, 157; tenperance, 164.
Number 15, the Creator, 168; the awak-
ening, 169; a trinity 169; devil, 174;
Dare and do, 181; l'yphon 181; The
Order of the, 183, 191, 201; Sasseck,
206; Devil, 209.
Number 16, Victory, 212; Path 216;
Solar Light, 2l6 fall of atan'.
kingdom 216; Ayui, 219; Lsghtataag
Struck tower, 221.
Number 17, 225; Disposing Intelli-
gence, 225- celestial Hierarchies, 233;
Pr 239; T1Ie Star, 243.
NuniLer 18 245; Second Initiation, 245,
2514; I1ath of Senses, 254 262;
House of Influence, 254; Tzo.dJ,, 259;
Moon, 260' Chaos, 262.
Number 19, fiie Sun, 264' Ultimate at..
tainment, 264; Fruit ol Ages, 265;
Meanings of 266 Cycle of, 266; as
10, 268; Phiosopler's Stone. 268-70;
Path, 270; Luna Flame, 271; Qoph,
272; Sat., 273.
Number 20, Dispenser of Wisdom, 278;
Free-will, 281; Breaker of the Etc.
melds, 281; Re,!,, 284; Judgsse,.t,
Number 21, No Number, 289 295- as
777, 294; Mystery of Life, 2'4; llagi-
cal decanum, 295; Skin, 296; Fool,
Numler 22, New Jerusalem, 302-8;
City of Peace, 308; Tan, 319; world,
320.
Numbers, higher include lower, 1.
Numbers, Wescott, quoted, 5.
Numbers and Letters, quoted, 1, 8, 23.
Occult Review, quoted, 213.
0
Offerings, burnt, 94-5.
Omens, power of, 116.
Optic Tholami 284.
Order, of Óinstian Mystics, 183;
Agents of, 199; cosmic, 191; foun-
ded, 202; objects of, 195, 201; of
transmutation, 202..
Orthos, the dog, 103, 105.
Osins, 155 231, 266.
Ox, symbol of, 72. 112-4 321.
Oxen, of Geryoneus, io.
Ox-goad, Lamed an, 72.
P
P, the four, 239-40.
Pandora, 312.
Path, left band, 300; of Attainment,
186; of Illumination, 148; of the
Senses, 254, 262.
Patriarch, disciples of, 52.
Pelican, 254.
People, the chosen, 40.
Perdition, son of, 293.
Perfumes, 162.
Personality, projected, 17; redeemed,
296.
P1, ratio, 155.
PhilosopJy of War, quoted, 182, 309.
Pierian Spring, 13.
Pilgrim': Progress, quoted, 6.
Pine, number of the, 11.
Pineal gland, 284.
Pisces, and Qof.k 272; children of,
105; cycle of, th; influence of, 104;
labor of, 103; meaning of, 66; star
of, 104.
Putis Sophw, quoted, 52.
Pituitary body, 285.
Plan, the Grand, 37, 120
Planet, lesson of this, 71, 83.
Plejades, 50.
Plexus, solar 273-6.
Pope, quoteJ, 13.
Proverbs, 269.
Portals, the Seven, 153.
Poseidon, monster of, 101; Neptune,
94-5; son of, 111-2.
Potter, symbol of, 297.
Poverty, cause of 249.
Prayer, the Healing, 27.
Predestination, 177.
Priestess, ceremony of, 165; story of
white, 137.
Prometheus, 74 90; released. 112.
Psalms, quotes 37, 70, 109, 130, 159,
236, 246.
Psyche, and Cupid. 217.
lndeContinued 327
Psychic, meaning of, 131.
Puberty proof of 56, 292.
i'yranuii, 41; of truth, 148.
R
Race, third, 39; fourth, 39; Sfth, 39;
sixth, 39, 67-8; sixth sub-, 237.
Races, seven great, 28.
Ray, feminine, 288; of God, 280;
planetary, 32; positive and negative,
68- the ensouling, 16, 280; the mdi.
,iåual's, 29L
Realms of the Living Dead, quoted,
20, 113, 115, 127-8, 140, 197, 252.
291.
Redemption, 177.
Reed, golden, 245.
Reincarnation, number of, 2, 154.
Religion, Articles of, 177.
Repentance, is, 4.
Resurrection, 287.
Revelation, quoted, 10, 56, 68, 146, 230,
245, 302-s.
River, of Life, 91; of thought, 91.
Rivers, Alphcias and Peneios, 90, 91.
Rock, 37, 268.
Rod, divining, 299.
Rulers, angelic, 28.
Ruoch, 281.
S
Sabbath, 152.
Sacrifice, of lower, 112.
Sagittarius, labor of 91-2; sign of, 206.
St. John, quoted, I0-2-6, 189, 225.
St. Luke, quoted, 5, 49, 292. 310.
St. Matthew, number of, 11; quoted.
18, 60, 225, 232, 296.
Salts, the 12 cell, 64.
Samael, 282.
Sapphire, 10.
Saturn and letter, 284; and 13, 136;
the initiator, 110, 221, 252, 274.
Savior-God, 119.
Saviors, other 119 123.
Scorpio, and dud, 164; and letter, 157;
eagle, 80, 162, 321- heart of, 111;
Keep Silent, 80; laLor of, 83; mas-
culine, 107; sex, 162.
Sea, mare, 162; obeys, 156; old man of
the, 111.
Secret Doctrine, The, quoted, 8 16,
29, 41, 59 62-6, 77, 88, 94, 119, 143-4.
227-8, 231-4, 264-8, 275-80, 284, 286-
8-90, 291-4, 320.
Separation, number of, 4.
Sepher Yetsirak, quoted, 22-4-6, 60-1,
70, 143, 157, 183, 206, 216-9, 223,
239, 252-4-9, 264-70, 272, 283-4-9, 296,
302, 319.
Serpent, as dragon 109; Hercules and,
80; in Eden, 6, 207; of Wisdom,
259; swallowing tail, 206.7, 246-7 274.
Sex, and 18, 248; equilibrium of, 71;
lesson of planet, 71, 83; monster
of, 83; never both in one body, 86;
not evil, 71; problem of, 67, 108, 153,
161, 269, 303.
Sexes, when separated, 107.
Shadow, Brother, of the, 12, 248. 265.
hankaracharya, 290.
Sibyls, 88. 101.
Sickness, 303.
Sign, Aquarius, 9, 10, 66, 81, 90 239,
262; colors of, 334; degrees of, 30;
length of. 12; Libra 70, 106.7-8.
Sign of the Son of Man, 9, 36.
Signs, only ten 106-7.
Silent, Keep 8å. 181-7.
Silver, 30 pieces, 129; symbol, 165.
Simile of, electricity, 72; journeyman,
2; mussel-shell, 86.
Sin, number of, 4.
Solomon, temple of, 42.
Soul, animal, 256, 293; builds body,
297; group-, 228; in signs, 81; no lost,
230; seeks mate, 85; takes possession,
Spear, of Amfortas, 4.
Sphinx, 7, 37, 203; riddle of, 75.
Spleen, 272.
Stables, Augean, cleansing the, 90.
Sissies of Dyzais, quoted,- 308.
Stars, influences of, 35.
Static, forces. 121.
Stone. foundation, 148-50, 305, 314;
Peter the, 268; the Philosopher's, 63,
268, 277, 288 white, 302.
Strength, 11th card, 28.
Studying, advantages of, 242.
Stupidity, symbolized. 98.
Stymphalos, birds of. 91.
Suui Hook. The, quoted, 44, SI.
Sun, effect of 265; number of, 264;
spiritual, 261, 271.9; Temple of the,
Sun-(o& 119, 124.
Sun-myth, 119, 124.
Sun.spots, 8.
Supper, the last, 33, 116, 123-3-9.
Swan, 254.
Swastika. 275.
Sword Przlibur, 3; flaming, 20, 67;
of hermes, 81, of the Spirit, 81, 211.
Sylpbs, 11.
7
Table, of sun, 123; the Round, 51,
126-9, 134.
Tarot of the Rohsimaiis, quoted, 132,
212, 217 231, 272,
Taurus, lai,or of, 94; to Do, 80.
Teachers, descended, 203.
Telautograph, 122.
Temperance, 164.
Tesuysois, quoted, 99.
Terra, 109.
Tbeopbany, 139.
Theseus, release of, 113; symbol of, 9i
Thou children, 154; constructive
an estructive, 98; create, dcvi'
bOlC2.,.oem. 149, 178-9; syus
Thrones, twelve 29.
Tomb, symbol of', 129, 134, 287.
Tone, organ, 236.
Tooth, 296.
Tower, symbol of 222-3, 260.
Trawsce,sde,stai i/sine, quoted, 62, 146,
174, 268, 273, 278, 298,
Transmutation, chapter III; cycle of
18; of metals, 274; within outward.
Tree, of good and evIl, 280; of Uk,
67-8, 74 108-10, 207.
Triangle, biia, 107; racial line of, 39.
Tribes, and masonry, 64; sealed, 229;
symbols of, 43-6-8.
Trinity, 29.
Twice-born, 108 265 287.
Twins, Jacob, frercutes, 79.
Typhon, seed of, 82, 113, 181.
-V
Vailcyrics number of the, 10.
Valley, oi Death, 246.7 253.
Vase, symbol, 164, 24-i.
Venus, garden of, 217; girdle of, 100-1.
Vibrations, 236.
Victory 212.
Vigil,i
Vision, of a Disciple, 135.
Virgo, feminine, 107; labor of, 99,
Voice, army of the, 226, 236; the Iii.
ncr, 111, 257.
Vow, of isis, quoted, 2, 9, 11, 27,
30-7, 172, 185-6, 197-200, 203-7, 236,
320.
Voice of the Silence, quoted, 81 93,
103, 153. 221, 245, 265, 278, 289.
Volatile, and fIxed, 269-70.
Vulture, symbol of, 74, 112.
w
Wand, magician's, 209, 243.7, 321;
Mose,, 208, 289.
War, the world, 309.
Water, symbolizes, 3, 136.
Water of Life, 9, 10, 66, 80, 136, 164-5,
217, 244, 289.
Weapons, of Disciple, 133-4; 0f Her-
cules, 81; Qoph, a, 272.
Week, of years, 137.
Will, the, 150, 165, l7l 214-S. 281.
Wine, of Life, 53; of spirit, 126, 135.
Wings, symbol, 164, 209.
Witchcraft, 214.
Wolf, symbol, 261.
Woman, characteristic of, 270; inspirer,
270, 274; opportunity, 312.
Word, syllables of, 236; the, 121, 227,
Wrestler, Antaios the, 111-2.
Work, the Great, 58, 62, 171, 268,
274-6; sign of, 73.
World, 320.
World, Queen of the, 146.
z
Zeus, deception of, 78; horses of, 102;
number of, 10.
Zodiac, a limit, 120; snetent, 41; and
Hercules, 77 263; nimals of, 30. 57,
223; a switchboard, 26; Brabmanical,
43; diagram. of, 31-6 41; greater,
35; hierarchies and, &34; 10 signs,
29; 12 signs, 29.
Z.hae, quoted. 16.
828 IndeConhinuéd
The Fellowship of the
Order of Christian Mystics
A non-sectarian spiritual movement for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and universal.
Monthly lessons and personal correspondence on all vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teachings of the Order presented in this volume
have interested and helped you, send for Descriptive
Pamphlet.
F. HOMER CURTISS, B.S., M.D., Sec'y.
3510 Quebec Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.
"THE CURTISS BOOKS"
These books present the philosophy of Christian Psychology and
Mysticism in plain, comprehensible terms and applied to the daily
life. Not mere theory and metaphysical speculation, but a definite
and comprehensible philosophy of life and Soul-growth, tested
through years of experience, which includes a rational explanation
of sil forms of mysticism and Biblical Occultism, as well as the
vital and complex problems of modern life and all after-death con-
ditions.
There are perhaps no books on the market to-day which so tnt-
fill the needs of the awakened Soul who is seeking to know and
understand how to apply the universal laws of the spiritual life
under present and cominÇ world conditions. While philosophical
and comprehensive in their scope, they also answer the heart-cry
for love, light and life.
Just the hooks to place in the hands of a friend who is cut-
growing former limitations of thought and old conceptions. Chris.
thu in their ethics, yet non-sectarian, cosmic and universal.
Send for Descriptive Catalog.
TUE CURTISS PIULOSOPIUC BOOK CO.
3510 Quebec St., N. W., Washington, D. C.
"The Curtiss Books" Dispel the Mists From Mysticism
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian Psychology. Spiritual
Philosophy and Esoteric Biblical Interpretation
Not cold, intellectual essays, but vibrant with sympathy, understand-
ing and comfort for those facing life's trials and problems, explaining
the reasons therefor and how to master them. Radiant with practical
help. Takes fear out of the Bible.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Life's Duties and How to Recognize and Accomplish ThemThe
Cycle of Fulfiflmpnt. The European War Foreshadowed and Causes
Given Two Years Before It BeganDegrees and Orders, and the
Celestial HierarchiesThe Wisdom ReligionConcerning the Doctrine
of Hell Fire, Takes Fear Out of the BibleThe Eleventh Command-
mentNarcotics, Alcohol and PsychismA Study of KarmaThe
SelfThe Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear Explanation of the Laws
Under Which the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest on Earth in
This Age, exposes the mistake of the many r1iimintsA Study of
ReincarnationThe Seven Powers of ManA Brief Outline of Evo-
lution, both Man and NatureThe Sevenfold LawThe Formation
of World ChainsPurity, and the problem of sexThe Órigin of Man,
a dear explanation which reconciles Fundamentalists and Liberals
The Symbol of the SerpentPurification vs. DeificationThe Memory
of Past Lives, explains why so many think they have been great per-
sonages in the pastThe Cycle of NecessityThe Path of Attainment
Earth's Fmer ForcesThe Descent of the LightThe Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and Mission in LifeThe 1T1ir.
Prayer, and how to use itHow to Enter the SilenceNature's Mystic
Alphabet. A Study of the Relation of Sound, Number, Color and
FormThe Word Made FleshIlluminationThe Symbol of the Salt
Thou Shalt Not Kill, Covering the Whole Problem of Meat Eeating
The Prayer of ConsecrationThe Meaning of the Symbol of the
Order.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
"The Curtiss Books" Help You to Help Yourself
The VOICE OF ISIS
APPRECIATIONS
"Here we have a wise book."Portland Oregonian.
"Is the most valuable, yes, the most practical of any that has cone
under the observation of the reviewer."Joliet News.
"A marvel of erudition. Practical instruction accompanies well seasoned
Lheory at every turn."The Occult Review, London.
"Reveals with wonderful simplidty, directness and convindng force,
Christianity as perceived by the light of the Secret Wisdom."Azoth
Magazine.
Uft is indeed an epoch-making volume and almost every subject of
importance is treated. . . and eluddated beautifully. Verily those who
accept the authors' interpretations. . . will be students of Universal
Religion."Kalpaka Magazine, India.
"High ideals are given upon sex and generation, and the book is
permeated with a large tolerance and loving service towards advandng
humamty."The Master Mind.
"it is the practical problems of life .. . that constitute its use and
commend it to every earnest student."The Public, Chicago.
"Altogether, this is a book rich in thought and suggestion."The
American Tlzeosophist.
"It contains truth of the highest spiritual order which the student of
Truth may readily lay hold upon."Unity.
"Not only has the book very favorably impressed me through its
common sense way of treating subjects on which occultists sometimes
go wild, but I have almost invariably heard the same expression of
opinion from others who have read it."Librarian, the 0. E. Library
League.
"The greatest book since The Secret Doctrine."J. B.
"The first and only book that gives me a feeling of complete satis-
faction as I read."Mrz. S. S. B.
"I keep it dose and read it as some do their llibles."Mrs. C. W.
"For me, your book is the most inclusive, popular, comprehensive,
sane and balanced, and saturated with that wonderful and helpful
essence of understanding, sympathy and love, which makes your book
a living friend. Your spiritual psychology is unique! It has opened my
ey&'P. R.
Tenth Edition, 433 Pages, Elaborate Index. Price, ZJO
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
"The Curtiss Books" Explain the Second Coming
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Not a sequel to The Voive of Isis, but rather a response to the
urgent call for further and more advanced instruction concerning the
great unrest in world conditions, and their solution.
Also contains a reasonable and scientific explanation of how and
when and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Coming.
The only satisfactory exposition of this subject.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
The Mystic Lifein nature, so in manbow to react to stimuli from
the inner world as we now react to the outcrThe Sign Aquarius
doctrine of cycles and agesthe Sign of the Son of Man in heaven
Are These the Last Dayscycles of Races and sub-racesmeaning of
"the end of the world."Comets and Eclipseshow cosmic changes
affect the Earththe Sun-spot cycle and its effectHalley's comet
ushered in Aquarian Age.The Law of Growthbow the ideal mani-
fests through the Law of Growththe dynaspheric forceBirth of
the New Agethe Water Bearerembodiment of the ChristHis
teacbings.Jacob and Eraumeaning of the trickeryof Jacob's twelve
sonssymbology of the Stars and Stripesis America the seat of
the new race?Mastery and the Mastersmeaning of mastery and
bow attainedfeminine Mastersthe Great White Lodge.Mothcr
Earthher alchemyher seven layersorigin of insect pests and plant
blightseffect of blood shed on battIefleldsThe Pow Windsuse of
in the Biblecoming cataclysms.The Three JohnsJohn the Bap-
tist, John the Beloved, John the Revelator.Children of the House-
holdthe Prayer for Demonstrationprotection from astral forces.
astral chillastral diseasesdilld trainingattaining material supply.
Man, Know Thyselfdivisions of manlaws of mindconcentration
on the solar plexustraining the subconscious mindthe superconsdous
symbol of the carpenterof Herodthe cruciflxion.Orderly Sequence
effect of order and disorderThe Spiral of Lifereason for changes
in lifeuse of the Masters' v.ame&LiJe Waveslaw of wave-motion
rhythm of the breathtidal wavesstorms of emotionmagnetic
variations of the Earth.Message of the Sphinxmeaning of the
scaraborigin of the Order of Christian Mysticscrypt beneath the
SphinLThe Second Woelength of the four periods of the woe
false prophets.Tke Day of Judgmentsigns of His comingLaw of
Sacrificesacrifice of the Sun in Naturevalue of talismansvalue
of sacrificeThe Sheep and the Goatstheir symbologythe "other
sheep"Tke Mystic Oakorigin and function of the dancerhythmic
motion in religious servicessymbology of Circle and Sun dances
origin of bonfires and the Maypoleflryads and Naiads.The Tha-
reond Heartformation of a diamondforces obtained from a din-
mondThe Trite Priesthoodmeaning of priest, hieronhant, prophet-
Meichisedec and Jesushow an Avatar manifestsHis near advent
partial Avatars or Avesbas.A New TestamentJesus' new testament
"The Curtins Books" Gave a New Outlook on Life
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
symbology of "the upper chamber"symbology of bloodof the
bread and wine"He shaU so come in like manner."Crossing Jordan
Allegory of the Children of Israelwandering in the wilderness
dividing the waterscrossing dry-shodTaking Jerichosymbology of
the ram's hornspower of rhythmwhy the walls felLThe Vain
ShowLuciferdistinction between Lucifer1 Satan and the devil
Universal Center of the Solar Schoolthe Luciferian SchooLFaith
and Worksmeaning of faithSun Initiation.Marswhy Mars is
redrelation of Mars and Venuswhy the Bible is allegoricaLThe
Spiritual Birthplace of the spiritual birththe spiritual or Nirmana-
kaya body.Tke Mighty Angel"this same Jesus shall so come in like
manner"llis method of appearanceconditions necessaryhow to
recognize HimThe Soul's Guerdonmeaning of a guerdonlesson
of each Earth-lifeobject of incarnationpredestination and free-will
value of ceremonies, observances, diet, etc.necessity for personality-
guerdon of the Orderpersonality and Soul of the Orderthe Lord
from heaventhe Soul's guerdon.
APPRECIATIONS
"An admirably conceived and well produced volume, which should do
much to increase still further the wide circle of students to whom the
Christo-Theosophy of The Order of Christian Mystics makes so strong
an appeaL"The Occult Review, London.
"Have only got about one-fourth through with 'The Message of
Aquaria,' but the book is so good that I want to put one in each of our
public libraries."R. H. W.
"I am having a splendid time with the new book. I am reading it
slowly, trying to get as much as I can at the first reading. While it is
tremendously fascinating I am resisting the temptation to race through
it, because I wish to have my pleasure continue as long as possible."-
11. A. D.
"Aitho I have given much time and study to 'The Message of Aquaria'
I feel that I have merely scratched the surface of this wonderful book.
Quite apart from their great message to the world, the amount of
actual knowledge they contain and the extraordinary high standard of
literary finish, together with perfect simplicity of language and style,
snake this side of these works (the Curtiss books) without a jarring
note."A. A. B., London.
Third Edition now in press. Indexed, $250
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
"The Curtiss Books" expound a Cosmic philosophy.
COMING WORLD CHANGES
A rational summary of the many recent prophecies as to
world cataclysms, the value of such prophecies, and the
scientific and philosophic principles underlying such cyclic
changes in the earth's surface.
Not a pessimistic, hopeless and fear-producing volume,
but presenting the underlying principles of the changes, and
a definite remedy for shortening "the days of tribulation."
Chap. IProphecies of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle and
many others.
Chap. ILGeological Consider-
ations, the scientific aspect.
Chap. IlLThe Philosophy of
Planetary Changes such as
sank Atlantis, etc.
Chap. IVd.The King of the
World and the predicted
Asiatic invasion of Europe.
Chap. V.The Heart of the
World. The relation of
America to world condi.
tions.
Chap. VLThe Battle of Ar-
mageddon. Psychic fac-
toes in the World War,
Chap. VILThe Remedy.
Based on scientific psycho-
logical principles.
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are noted internationally for the
profound scholarship with which they have studied the prob-
lems of ancient and modern mysticism.. . . The fact that
they predicted the World War, in a volume published two
years before the assassination at Serajevo, lends special value
to their dream of the approaching new era. . .
National Pictorial Monthly, New York.
If you wish to understand the finer forces operating back
of present-day conditions you need this remarkable volume.
Third Edition Art Boards. Price $1.10 post paid.
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
"The Curtiss Books" expound the laws of future events.
COMING WORLD CHANGES
APPRECIATIONS
"For many years now 'The Curtiss Books' have been welcomed
by all earnest and devout seekers of wisdom; and this volume is of
special value in the present World Crisis. There are many books
written . . . on these great changes . . . but few are of equal value
to this one." The Rally (London).
"Like all the other 'Curtiss Books', this is a deep and scholarly eon-
sideration of the subject.. . . An important book .. . and we hope
that each of our readers will secure a copy." The Aquarian Age
(Santa Barbara).
"In view of present tendencies it strikes a startlingly confirmatory
note.. .. Is it merely a coincidence that seismic and meteorological
disturbances of all kinds are now becoming so frequent and severe?
Needless to say that we consider the course indicated is one
which is worthy of every commendation, and that we can heartily
reco,nniend it.' From a four-page editorial review in The Occult
Review (London).
"Even when read with certain reservations as to possibility and
probability, one cannot but grasp the deep spirituality of the messages,
and to be assured of the earnest and sincere motives back of the
writing?' Washington Post (D.C.).
"The book is well written and dear; and much credibility is lent
to the prophecies by statements of geological changes already in
progress. . . . The book handles the spiritual side of coming world
changes as saliently as it does the physical, with a beautiful short
chapter at the end called 'The Remedy.'" Theosophical Messenger
(Chicago).
"Full of deep spirituality." Hid! Evening News (England).
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are exceptionally gifted writers in their
peculiar fielda field of Oriental mysticism lighted by a Western sun.
Coming World Changes is a remarkably interesting volume." Ghost
Stories (New York).
"The work done by Dr. and Mrs. Cuthss, as set forth in this little
book, deserves recognition from all fellow-workers." Canadian The-
osophist (Toronto).
"Any addition to 'The Curtiss Books' is very welcome in the library
of the occultist because of the unusually sincere and constructive na-
ture of the work carried on by the doctor and his wife." The Mes-
sage (Los Angeles).
"With the advent of each new 'Curtiss Book' we reasonably expect
further researches into truth, and we are not disappointed....
Much spiritual pabulum is developed in their new book, which we
take pleasure in commending." Mercury (New York).
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
"The Curtiss Books" Explain the Mysteries of Life
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
"This work is not only the most comprehensive and authoritative
book on the significance and spiritual interpretation of numbers and
symbols, but its 40 chapters contain more new, reliable and spirituaHy
helpful information on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the circle,
triangle, square1 pentacle, Seal of Solomon, the Commandments, indud-
ing the esoteric interpretation of many Bible and classic myths hereto-
fore little understood, also Masonic symbols, the Trinity, the Elohim,
angels, mythology, evolution, cycles, imitations, etc., than mnay sep-
arate books on those subjects."Baltimore American.
Not a dry mathematical treatise, nor mere speculative theories.
Illustrations and confirmations frois nature at every turn.
Shows "That all personal experiences are expressions of the one
Great Law manifesting according to mathematical principles, demon-
strating that the unfoldment of the godlike possibilities inherent in each
Soul follows, step by step, the same order of events that is followed
in the Cosmos."
CONDENSED TABLE 01? CONTENTS
The Origin of Numerical Systemsthe Symbol of the Circle, Ser-
pent, Kirk and Churchthe Druids and HyperboreansRound Towers
of IrelandIndians' Use of Feathersthe Circle as the Egg and the
CatOrigin of the Decimal SystemOrigin of the Druid Bonfires
and MaypoleWhy 1 Comes Firstthe Letter AlepIsThe Juggler
Origin of Constantine's Symbolthe Magic Wand and CrozierSoul-
marriageKey to the Universal Law of Sexthe Letter Beththe
High PriestessJakin and BoasSolar CrossVeil of Isisthe 3 Gmat
Star StreamsOrigin of the Triangle and the TrinityDiagram of
Law of Marriage and DivorceTripod of Pythian PriestessNoah and
His SonsProphets in the Fiery FurnacePower of the Spoken Word
"Army of the Voice"The Letter GimelThe EmpressOrigin of
the Square, and Cross, SwastIkathe 4 Beaststhe 4 Windsthe 4
Gospelsthe 4 Rivers of Eden-40 Years in the Wilderness.-40 Days'
Fastthe 4 Castes of Mankind-4 Stages of Civilization-4 Forms of
Government, the last of which we are now enteringthe Letter Daletk
The EmperorDifference between Sabbath and SundayRole of
SaturnS Pointed StarB_chiimr's VisionClairvoyance Not a 6th
SenseSymbol of the Crocodilethe 5 Ta1icm2n of the SlkbsAnti-
gonus' Vision of the PentacleEffect of a Reversed Symbolthe Letter
HiThe PopeOffering Up Isaac-6 Days of Creation-6 Days of
LaborNumber 6 and the- Elementalsthe Letter VauThe Mystery
of Creationthe 7 ElohimMusic of the SpheresColors of the Musi-
cal ScaleApollo's Lyrethe Pipes of Panthe number of Gestation
the 7-fold Earth Chainthe 7 Races and Sub-races--the 7-fold Con-
struction of Manthe 7 Cycles of Lifethe 7-fold Basis of Masonry
Mme. Blavatsky and Number 7the 7 Churches in AsiaNumber 7 in
Revelationthe 7-Pointed StarSeal of SolomonLegend of the Mina-
tourof Phactonthe 7 Principles of Man clearly expoundedthe 7
"The Curtiss Books" Renew Faith through Xno'uuiedge
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Pleiades and the 7 RishisMyth of Orionof Niobethe Letter Zain
The Chariotthe Number of Evolutionthe Octavethe 8th Sphere
the Dweller on the ThresholdValley of the Shadow of Deaththe
Letter HethJustice---the Number of InitiationApollonius of Tyana
MeditationGenii of the HoursHigher InitiationsPlato and Num-
ber 9the 9th Hourthe 9 Musesthe Mystery of Number 9
Symbology of a Ropethe 144,000the Letter TethTJie Hermit
the Number 10the Number of Completionthe Decadthe Sun
Abram and SaraiZodiac Formerly had Only 10 SignsDiagram of
the Group-SoulMeaning of the 10 Lepersthe Letter YodThe
Wheel of Lifethe Joy of CompletionICey-note of CreationGeo-
logic ErasNumber of Completed Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
"In this book all the lore of centuries that has gathered about the
number from 1 through 10 is set forth with a perfect wealth of
detail. . - This book is easily the most complete and satisfactory
bringing together of information that is scattered in hundreds of vol-
umes not readily accessible."Tke Boston Post.
"It is the most fascinating book I ever read."New York Sun.
"It certainly makes out a good brief for the significance of num-
bers, and one well supported by mathematics and music. - - . It con-
tains much besides the ingenious showing of the curious correspondence
of numbers."Springfield Republican.
"An elaborate spiritual interpretation of numbers and symbols which
supplements Middle Age deliverances in this held with illustrations
from modern sdencc, and comes near to relegating Pythagoras to the
shelf as a back number. . . - The treatise presents an amount of well
collected information which no student of numbers and their form
symbols can afford to neglect. . . . The general aim is both ethical and
religious."Boston Herald.
"It is deep and profound. As one goes into this message of phi-
losophy one becomes vitally interested, and even awad."Portland
Oregonian.
"The person who has only an amused contempt for this sort of
thing will vet find a gripping interest in contemplating what it has pro-
duced."Tke San Francisco Chronicle.
"Goes deeply into the philosophy of numbers and should be of
interest to all students of symbolism and Freemasonry.. . . Not a
mathematical dissertation, but replete with occult information."
Masonic New Age Magazine.
Profusely illustrated with ten full-page plates, portrait of Mm. Cur-
tim, many diagrams, tables, etc.
Complete Index. Fifth and Revised Edition. Price, 2JO
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
The Curtisa Booka" Have Remodeled Men's Lives
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to The Key to the Universe
11th volume presents three revelations of supreme Importance, con-
cerning the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Hercules, and the
relation of the Sun Myth to the Christian religion.
Why is the Zodiac divided into 12 signs and not some other number?
Why should there be only four elements, earth, air, fire, water? Why
should each have three manifestations in the Zodiac?
All the myths and allegories involving 12, such as Jacob and his 12
sons, also the 12 Disciples of Jesus, and the 12 months of the year,
etc., are aU based upon the 12-fold division of the Zodiac. But
nowhere in print have we found any philosophical and scientific rea-
son why the division into 12 save in this volume. Truly
a momentous discovery.
Why should the peculiar 2nim'lc used be applied to the Zodiac when
the forms of the constellations they embrace in no way resemble or
even suggest such iihnik? The reason is found only in this volume.
Vitally necessary for all students of astrology.
Nowhere in all literature can the interpretation of the 12 Labors
of Hercules be found. In this volume the authors not only give the
interpretation, but connect each labor with its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book in itselL
The universal Sun Myth has been the basis of the life-narrative
of every Sun God or spiritual Light Bearer sent to humanity. This
volume shows that this is more than a myth and why it is a spiritual
reality. These chapters are a direct challenge to the so-called "higher
critics" of the Bible and a complete refutation of their chief claims
against the Bible story. Of great importance to all students of com-
parative religion, ministers and to Bible students generally.
These are only a few of the many revelations of this truly wonderful
volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Number 11, a New Beginning, the cycle of the advanced Disciple.
the Legend of Parsifalthe 11 year Astronomical Cydetbe 11 year
Sun Spot CycleGems and the ZodiacUse of a person's Name-
NumberReincarnation and Transmutationthe Permanent Atom
Physical ImmortalityAttitude for HealingCause of Cancerthe He-
brew Lettersthe 144,000the 11th letter, Kaphdiagrams of the
Cycle of Manifestation. -
Number 12, the Manifested UniverseGeometrical Law why the
Zodiac is 12 foldDiagram of Zodiacthe Aquarian AgeWhy were
the disciples called "Fishers of Men"?Origin of the 12 Tribes-
12 Stones from Jordanthe 12 Disciples-12 Knights of King Arthur
the Last Supperthe 12 Baskets of BreadJesus at 12 yearsWhen
Is Incarnation Cosnplete?Incarnation in Various SignsMystery of
the Gobi Desert-12 Hebrew Simple Lettezs-12 Body SaltsJesus, the
Piscean Avatar.
"The Curtiss Books" Satisfy Both Head and Heart
The KEY OF DESTINY
The 12 Labors of HerculesRelation of Hercules and JacobKill-
ing the Nemcan LionKilling the HydraCapturing the Keryneian
DoeCapturing the Erymanthian BoarCleaning the Augean Stables
Killing the Man-eating Birds of StyniphalosCapturing the Cretan
BullCapturing the Man-eating Mares of DiomedesSeizing the
Girdle of HippolyteCapturing the Oxen of Geryoneusthe Three-
headed Hell HoundObtaining the Golden Apples of HesperidesChange
from 10 signs to 12Wrestling with AntaiosMysteries of Eleusis.
Number 13Why Considered Unlucky-13 at a dinnerIts Real
SignificanceThe Savior GodMystical Meaning of the BibleHigher
Critics refutedthe Life of JesusNumber of Judas-30 pieces of
SilverMeaning of Playing Cards-13 Apparitions of Jesus.
Number 14Phantoms of the MindHawaiian Sacred SharkLevia-
thanJonahUse of Perfumes.
Number ISBlood of the Lambthe Devil, How CreatedOrigin
of DiseasesRace KarmaPower of ThoughtDweller on the Threshold
Hour of Initiationthe Order of the 15Why EstablishedCon-
tacting the Mastersthe Holy GrailMessage of the Sphinx.
Number 16VictoryNature SpiritsEnchantinents.
Number 17Disposing Intelligencethe Celestial Hierarchies-144,000
Value of HoroscopesDiagram of the Hierarchies.
Number 18The Second InitiationBlack Magiciansthe $ Sign
Symbol of the Swan or PelicanNumber 666 and the Beast.
Number 19Number of the SunTwice-bornSun Eclipse every 19
yearsthe Hyperborean LandDruid CollegesSun Initiationthe
Philosopher's StoneCenter in the Spleenthe SwastikaEquilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20Celestial InitiatorPower of the ChristReason for
Spiritual Development in Deformed BodiesDescription of the Pineal
Gland and the Pituitary Bodythe Feminine Ray.
Number 21Incarnations of the Higher SelfMme. Blavatsky's last
IncarnationSpiritual Majoritythe Crocodile.
Number 22The New JerusalemSquaring the CircleLaw of Co-
operationAquarian AgeProphecies of DiastersEstablishing New
Conditionsthe Woman's AgeTaldng Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
"They have collected a positive wealth of material about the sym-
bolism of numbers. .. . You will find here a positive treasury of in-
formation about how to climb to the ultimate attainment."The Boston
Post.
Ten full-page plates, portrait of Dr. Curtiss, many diagrams, etc.
Second Edition. 322 Pages. Complete Index. Price, 2S0
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
"The Curtiss Books" Solve the Riddle of Deathand After
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALITY SURVIVE DEATH?
Is communication possible? Is there a safe and legitimate method?
This book gives a clear, scientific, satisfying and comforting explanation
of all after-death conditions, including a dear explanation of the
problems unsolved by "Raymond"; "Letters from a Living Dead
Mass"; "Patience Worth," etc. A rational, scientific, all-inclusive philos-
ophy, not a mere mediumistic report.
Wastes no time with elaborate proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already know it to be a fact and desire authoritative
instruction as to the details. Explains all methods of communication
with the invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting PowersIndependent Commu-
nications, examplesThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from lincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from SaturnThe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe CurtainAviator
returns.
You will find all your questions answered in this volume.
CONDENSED TABLE OP CONTENTS
Scientific proofsRivers of Life and Deaththe Seven Realms
Realm of Reflectionthe Astral Doublethe After-Death Sleepthe
Awakening of the Aged; After BattleAstral HelpersIndians as
GuidesEarth-bound Spiritsthe Law of Thought and DesireDiseases
Due to Reflex Psychic ConditionsClothing, Houses, Amusements
the Method of MaterializationSouls Seeking IncarnationCondi-
tions Around the Prosepctive Motherthe Hall of LetheWhy We
Forget the Higher Realms at BirthLaw of Manifestationthe Outer
Darkness"Weeping and Wailing and Gnashing of Teeth"Masses
of Color, Perfumes, SoundsHow the Flowers Are ColoredThought-
forms and Inventionsthe Pattern MuseumAeroplane Models and
Other Inventions to ComeObsessing EntitiesPsychic Cause of
DrunkennessExamples and the CureCrimes of "Irresistible Impulse"
Lustful TemptationsControl of Sex DesiresDual and Multiple
PersonalitiesLoving Friends and HelpersSt. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Spirits"So-called "Lost Souls"the Dweller on the Threshold
Sad Fate of the SuicideElementalsthe Fairies, Nature Sprites--
Their Messages and PropliedesHow Gold is FormedPsychic Realms
Diagrams of the Astral WorldDeath of the Astral BodySpirits
who "Progress to Higher Spheres"the "Hall of Learning" and the
Great Schoolsthe Great White LodgeWork of Mme. Blavatsky
ContinuesIndependent Methods of CommunionTelepathy, Clairvoy-
ance, Clairaudience, Clairsentience, Intuition, Inspiration, Theophany,
AveshaDifference Between Independent and Subjective Methods
"Spirit Control"Subjective vs. Ecstatic TranceMaterialization-
Trumpet Speakingthe Ouija Board, Examples of Its Deceptions md
"The Curtiss Books" Explain All Psychic Experience,
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DangersSir Oliver Lodge's Warning as to Automatic WritingThe
Telepathic Method, Bible ExamplesSt. Paul's Directions to AU Chris-
tionsthe Astral Chill vs. the Spiritual Fire, Chill or ThrillProtecting
PowersNegative vs. Positive StatesEnoch and the Doctrine of
TranslationAkashic Recordsfour added chapters of Independent
CommunicationsThe Aviator's Great Adventure, a Message from
Quentin RooseveltThe AnnunciationA Message from LincolnA
Prophecy of the Aquarian AgeA Message from Saturnthe Garden
of PrayersThe Message of the SphinxThe Curtain.
You will find your questions answered in this volume.
APPRECIATIONS
"We can very warmly recommend this volumeBy far the .nost
advanced book on (e subject.Knickerbocker Press, Albany, N. Y.
Is the Christian hereafter that is described with the classification
of the Astral World on a scientific basis."New York Times.
"Distinctively allied with the Bible. . . really of essential value."
Springfield Republican.
"One of the most valuable passages of the book, and a really notable
contribution to the subject, is on the treatment of drunkards and the
nature of alcohoL"Toronto Sunday World.
"We heartily recommend the chapter on The Desire Realm.
There is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such as
regards suicides and the dangers of (subjective) mediumship. The
chapters on elementals and fairies are extremely interesting, and alto-
gether our friends the Curtisses have given us a very valuable contribu-
tion for occult study."Editor of Azoth Magazine.
"A great deal of exceedingly useful advice is given to people regard-
ing their relation to their friends who have passed over. It is partic-
ularly desirable that in these times of death and sorrow people should
be familiar wish conditions of life on the other side of the veil.
Toronto Sunday World
"A saner treatise on the After-Death life would be difficult to
find.. . . The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their teachings,
and this work should enhance their already great reputation....
Over 300 pages of sound knowledge and advice... . The space at
one's disposal cannot possibly do justice to a work of this caliber,
and those who would delve deeper into this subject should not fail
to read this boolc." The Occult Review (London).
Can You Afford to Remain Ignorant on This Vitally
Important Subject?
Fifth Edition. With New Appendix on Narcotics. 12.50
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
"The Curtiss Books" Solve Sex Problems Normally
LETTERS from the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of The Order of Christian Mystics,
in answer to questions coming from earnest and intelligent students
all over the world, touch just the practical questions that arise in
the daily lives of all who are striving to live the higher life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Volume I
Spiritual Growth and De-
velopment.
The Masters of Wisdom
and Their Work.
IlL Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
Prayer and Its Results.
The Astral Plane.
Psychic Phenomena.
Dreams and Visions.
Health and Disease.
The Sex Problem.
Miscellaneous
Each volume contains en-
tirely different letters covering
different phases of the subject
mentioned in the other volume.
Volume II
Health and Disease.
Psychic Conditions.
The Law of Karma.
Coming World Changes.
Concerning The Order of
Christian Mystics.
After Death Conditions.
Prayer and Its Results.
Health and Disease.
Financial Problems.
Reincarnation.
The Sex Problem.
Marriage and Divorce.
Discouragement
Jesus and The Christ.
Miscellaneous.
Volume I. Sixth Edition Price Volume II. Second Edition Price
$200 $2.00
Order direct from the publishers
THE cURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
3510 Quebec St., N. W. Washington, D. C.
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTION
AND THE BIBLE
A new and illuminating concept of Evolution.
A new interpretation of the factors claimed by both skIes of the con-
troversy and a rational basis for the reconciliation of religion and science;
of the Fundamentalists and the Liberals.
Revolutionary yet inspiring views of the Garden in Eden, the "fall of
man," "original sin," "sex equality" and woman's position in society.
Satisfies the head, yet thrills the heart.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction.
Chapter i. Science. What science has proved as to the evolution of
forms.
Chapter ii. MateriaLism. Can explain processes but not origins and
causes.
Chapter iii. The Law of Manifestation. Necessity of a pattern. How
the pattern is materialized.
Chapter iv. Creation. Length of the "days" of creation. Geological evi-
dence.
Chapter v. Creation (Concluded). The second Adam not "created" but
"formed" or evolved. The fall of man. Original sin.
Chapter vi. Madfesting the Creation. Evolution not a mechanical
process.
Chapter vii. Manifesting the Creation (Concluded).
Chapter viii. Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve not the parents of all
mankind. Woman's place and duty m society.
Chapter ix. The Garden in Eden. No such locality ever found. How
long did it take Adam to name 1,000,000 species?
Chapter x. Trees in the Garden. Origin of evil. Why banished from
Eden?
Chapter xi. The Serpent Power. Serpent not the initiator of evil.
Sex not impure.
Chapter xii. The Serpent Power (Concluded).
Chapter xiii. Unity in Duality. Sex underlies all manifestation. Doc-
trine of spiritual mates.
Chapter xiv. The Twain One Flesh. Marriage made in heaven. "Trial"
and "companionate" marriages.
Chapter xv. Summary.
Chapter xvi. God. Part 1.The Three-fold Flame.
Chapter xvii. God. Part 11.The Chariot of Fire.
Chapter xviii. God. Part 111.The Christos.
Chapter xix. The Image of God.
The only book needed on evolution
Indexed. Price S2.5O
"The Curtiu Books" Blaze the Trail for the New Age
The GEM SERIES of BOOKLETS
Ideal Gifts at Any Season. Handy Pocket Size.
GEMS OF MYSTICISM
Inspiring passages selected from the writings of Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss.
Gives best simple insight into Mysticsm.
L Spiritual Growth. II. Duty. IlL Karma. IV. Reincarnation.
V. The Christ. VI. Masters of Wisdom. VII. Miscellaneous.
"One might wade through the religious philosophizings of every people
and place and not receive the inspiration one will get out of a ten-
minute perusal of this little book."Battimore American.
Third Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, LOO
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A Prose Poem of Devotion and Meditation
"Whatever one's creed, every soul can eat and drink of a book full of
loving helpfulness, that comes as unpretentious as a song-sparrow, as
quiet as a hidden spring, as soft as an odor-laden zephyr, with song, re-
freshment and delight."George Wharton James, Editor "Out WcstP
Second Art Edition. Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
THE TEMPLE OF SILENCE
The most inspiring treatise on Meditation and entering the Silence.
Practical working directions given.
The Great SilenceEntering the SIlencethe Noon Silence Service.
Second Edition. Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, fl.00
THE DIVINE MOTHER
The latest and most beautiful gem of the series.
The Divine Motherthe Bnnger Forththe Midnight Prayerthe
Waters of Lifethe Comforter.
Art Paper, 50 Cents; Limp Leather, $1.00
Send for Descriptive Catalog of The Custi,s Books
Order "The Curtiss Books" Direct from
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK Co.
3fl0 Quebec Street, N. W., Washington, D. C
