{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__clymer___the_rosicrucians_2ed.pdf","mytitle":"The Rosicrucians 2ed","mylang":"de"}
'\m
»iim
m
n
m
m
iib
m
w
By R. Swinburne Ciymer
n
S
m
u
r
f
ROSICRUCIANS
s
: b f u * z . 3
T R 'lC 'U S
V \ 9 . «
SE C O N D E D m O N
COPYRIGHT, 1928
© C U 1 0 8 3 1 1 8
JU N 2 9 >
s2 8
RESPONSIBILITY
T his book let is w ritten by the President
o f the
Rotjal Fratemitvj Association, Inc.
Registered in Pennsylvania
w ho is personally responsible for every
statem ent contained herein
C orrespondence relative to the
ROSICRUCIANS
should h e addressed to due
D E PA R T M E N T O F IN ST R U C T IO N
Beverltj Hall Corporation
Revm h} H all Building
Q ualrertow , Pa.
Issued by
Authority o f
For Your
Protection
.EULIS. PRELUDE
Ath
Tke Rose Gross
A' A A
Our
(Maims
T his Fraternity, or Association of
men, claims, without any reservation,
qualification, or exception whatsoever,
to possess sole jurisdiction over all Rosicrudan af­
fairs, general and particular, irrespective ©f the
special or peculiar phraseology relative to the name,
title, appellation, nomenclature, Greek or Latin de­
rivative, by which the Order, Fraternity, Brother­
hood or Society is known in America and all her
possessions, and her island possessions, and defies
successful contradictions of its righto and authority
to sudi possession, and the presentation of one single
honest daim to the contrary, by any person or per­
sons whosoever.
PAGE HVE
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
„ , „ The possession of this power
and authority was obtained by
i K lgriit the various leaders, teachers and
Priests of the Fraternity; by right of having legiti­
mately enrolled in the august Fraternity; by having
been properly and thoroughly instructed, fully train­
ed, and finally Initiated; also by right of bring
properly authorized and commissioned, prior to the
institution of the Order on American soil and by
the continuous existence of the Order since its estab­
lishm ent
* * *
A. T v ia l itfhd ^ 1872, while Dr, P. B.
an Admission Grand Hierarch of the Rost-
cracians, lived in Boston, and long years before any
other association in America or any of her posses­
sions attempted to use the name Jtomruciaa in one
or another of its variations, some of Dr. Randolph’s
enemies tried to ruin him and his work and the
Order. The prosecuting Attorney, during the course
of making bis charge to the jury, said:
"Over twenty years ago, Dr. Randolph was
known to be a Rosicrucian, and in that period
he ascended the steps of the mystical brother­
hood, outstripping the thousands and rushing
•past hundreds of gray-beards in the mental race,
until he attained the chieftainship of the true
Rosicruclans In America and the Isles of the
■Sea, and finally to the Supreme High Priest­
hood of the Order, and the Grand Mastership
:
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
of the combined Lodges of the earth likewise:
reaching the double office through bis absolute
defiance of poverty and wealth, and persistent
pursuit of ideas alone!" {*)
Setting aside the admitted twenty years prior to
1872, there is no record of any other association of
men functioning as Rosicraeians, and in addition
to the proofs by Copyright and In existing books,
this public trial and Its records prove beyond con-
tradiction, the existence of the Order, the undisputed
authority of the said Hr. P, JJ. Randolph as
Supreme Hierarch, and his right to appoint Ms own
successor, teachers and Priests, and Che consequent
illegality of any other man, or body of men, forming
an association, or associations, and using the name
or title Rosicrucian, unless appointed by Dr. P. B.
Randolph or his legitimate successors.
During Dr. P. B. Randolph’s Grand Mastership’
the SEE and the House of SS. of the Triple Order,
was located in San Francisco, Boston, and Toledo,
in the order named. During the life of Freeman B.
Dowd, the SEE and the House of SS. of the Triple
Order was located in Arkansas first, and later in
Mexico. With the induction of Dr, Edward H.
Brown into the chair of Grand Master, several
changes were made:and the SEE and House of SS. of
the Temple of the Rosy Cross and Eulis, was moved
‘See The History of the Rose Cross Order, Philo­
sophical Publishing Co., Quakertown. Pa.
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
"nm**
to Salem, Mass., while the See and House of SS. of
the Order mid Fraternity of the Roeicrucians was
located at Beverly H all, Quakertown, Pa., and in i
the year 1910 a fe c ia l Temple was constructed for
the express purpose of holding the June and AJ1-
Souls-Nigbt Convocations.
^TR Y \ 1 With the passing of Dr. Brown, all authority of
the Triple Order became vested in the present Su­
preme Grand Master, whose authority is of triple
derivation or descension: Directly from Dr. P . B.
Randolph, through his heir and associate, and
through Dr. James R. Phelps, and equally directly
from the Supreme Hierarch, Count, Ciounctti, the
Master and Teacher of Marie Corelli, who conferred
full authority of the International Ittumwati upon
Dr, Phelps (t); and, at present, the SEE and the
House of SS. of the Triple Order Is located at
Beverly H all, Quakertown, Pa., at which place, and
in the reconstructed Temple of file Order, the Con­
vocations are held twice each year.
$ 4t 3
fc
Fallacious Apparently sincere and deeply
. interested students sometimes
R eason in g question whether it is wise to
attempt an expose of clandestine bodies, leaning to
the belief that the better*way would be to ignore
fSea The Sene of God, Philosophies! Publishing
Co., Quakertown, Pa.
i WH
IM
li
9
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
►
<
<
P
w? <■.«..-
these, arguing that “each [students as well as organi­
zations] being at his own particular stage of evolu­
tion, he w ill work up through it, so why concern
oneself?”
If such reasoning were logical and in harmony
with the Divine Law, then we should likewise say:
“Why form International Associations for the con­
trol of the sale of narcotic drugs, looking to a reduc­
tion of the number of victims of this fearful scourge?
Since each individual is at his own stage of evolu­
tion and therefore In need of this experience (which
in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred results in
total destruction of body and soul), why not give
the manufacturers and purveyors fu ll freedom to sell
their deadly drugs to all who will buy?”
Or again: “Why have physicians and associa­
tions for die purpose of reducing the number of
diseases and their victims? Why not, seeing that
each one is at his own stage of evolution and there­
fore needs just this experience, let things go on as
they are, permitting epidemics to sweep the country
as black cholera did in the past?”
Or; “Why have churches and ministers to point
out to people those acts which are sins (destructive
of body and soul) and lead to death? W hy fight
the devil (evil) ? Why not give him eray chance
in the world, seeing each individual soul is at Its
own stage of evolution and should pass through this
'
A
1
i
1
1
1
I
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
10
experience?”
If it be our duty to fight (overcome) any one
evil, then each and every evil should have like at­
tention at our hands, and those evils which affect
the soul even to its destruction, as do false occult
teachings—which are the most greatly destructive,
should have our first attention.
Students who, without vigorous protest, permit
false teachers to flourish, teachers who even clothe
themselves with the names of honored associations,
names to which they have no right,—such students
are disloyal to their Order and their Master; they
are negatives or semi-negatives, and in great danger
of falling under the sway of the Black Brotherhoods
and their illusive doctrines and seductive but false
promises.
Evil must be met face tj> face and handled without
gloves. To compromise s to be lost. That which
is, either is right or wrong—there is no middle path.
7*tot a
Pleasant Duty
It is not a pleasant duty
to accuse or contradict o r ,
to engage in contentions,
It has frequently been
and these things are to he avoided whenever pos­
sible. However, it becore es a holy duty thus to do
when that which is sacf is parodied before the
public and degraded by misuse,
said that if one is clothed
sii-g y
TH E ROSICRXICIANS 11
with the truth and in die right, then that Is all
sufficient and the Law ultimately w ill right the
wrong. In theory this is admitted, but, in the
meantime, a countless army is misled, many beyond
redemption. Even the Great Master-Teacher ad­
mitted by practical action?—as note when he chas­
tized and drove forth the money changers in the
temple—that there are times when the truth must
be openly defended, and when those who debase
things that are holy must be confounded with the
truth and brought to justice and righteous punish­
ment.
* * *
“Think not that I am come to send peace on
earth: I come not to send peace but a sword.”
—St. Matthew 10:34.
Thus, while it is the mission of the
Rose Cross to bring peace and
spiritual insight to die seeking,
wandering, yet sincere Soul, and to lead it to Illu­
mination and Immortalization, in the present in­
stance we are compelled, even as was the Master-
Teacher of old, to unsheath the sword, and carry it
unsheathed until the false teachers and self-
appointed leaders who pose as members of the Order
are driven from the Temple of the Rosy Cross.
Justice
I F
m
'TRY'
JE euiu
i.i, lit*
1
THE ROSY CROSS
jem
Earlij H
M
oarij
% ¥
The beginning of the Rosicru-
jj dan Order or Fraternity, as
K osentp-euz dates from the seventeenth
century when Johann Valentin Andrea (not Lord
Francis Bacon as erroneously daimed tty some un­
informed writers), signing himself Christian Rosen-
kreuz, published a number of pamphlets dealing
•' with the mystical teachings of Societies (the Her-
metics and Paracelsians) then in existence but of
which little was known. The mystically inclined
at once seized on the name, and the Hermetic body
PAGE THIRTEEN
14
—
j**
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
’‘rariar..
j£M
»
'TRY
became known as the Rosy Cross (* ). In the book,
The Fraternity of Rosimtciam {**), issued by the
legitimate Order, bearing date 1906, and fully Copy­
righted, die author then recognized as an authority
cm the subject, the mystery was explained, and it
was dearly pointed art that the signature, Christian
Rosenkreuz, meant the Christian Rose Cross, by
which the name of the Fraternity was to be known
thereafter. So that all misconceptions may be avoid­
ed, it is necessary to repeat that this book was Copy-
(*)There are various forms, or usages of this
name, such as: The Order of The Rosy Cross; The
Golden and Rosy Cross; The Red Rose and Golden
Cross; The Temple of the Rosy Cross; The Fratern­
ity of the Rosieracisms; The Rosicruetans (Roslcrn-
cian Order); The Brethren of the Rosy Cross; The
Rosterucian Brotherhood. All of these are protected
by usage and though synonymous, there is a shade
of difference in their signification and they apply to .
different phaseB of the Great Work. The use of the
terms, Society, Fellowship, Colleges, Latin or Greek
translations for the Rosy Cross or Rosicrucians, pre­
fixes or suffixes, are merely subterfuges used in an
attempt to prevent the legitimate Order from obtain­
ing justice or protecting sincere seekers front being
misled or defrauded.
(••IW hen the text book. The Fraternity of .Reel-
crucians, was first published there was but one
Roslcrucian body in America, that founded by Dr.'
F- B. Randolph, under the Law of usage and that of
the Spiritual Hierarchy governing Occult affairs.
This was, and still Is, the legitimate body, and with
the exception of one instance, since become void,
this body has given authority to no other association
or organization.
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
tpi null*
is
3E
copies duly filed in the Library of Con-
that years later, two men, the founders
feSnf daridestine organizations, styling them Rosknp-
*iW$ian, deliberately used tins matter as original with
and without giving credit to the writer
J&rfljjfirst solved the mystery, and gave it to the
'^ubiioiav The proofs are filed In the office of this
ation for inspection.
iS^GkADES IN THE HIERARCHY
R o se T^
ie Rosicrudan Order, august as
it is, is but tie first grade or step
in the Spiritual Hierarchy. The
Cross is the primary training school wherein
a sublime philosophy, a law of justice, the
*1§of Compensation, the necessity of Manhood
. .gjttt^interfereace with the rights of other men.
Igm its training, the Rosy Cross leads the gross man
,f|by.;' degrees from the purely physical-carnal to the
1 Verity of the spiritual. It instructs man in the
, 'process:of transmutation, so that he can, by his own
i:#ffort3, transmute the base into the fine, the dross
•f,into:pure gold. This process gradually results in
IUuHunation. Man proves to him self through this
method that he does possess a Soul, and the location
where the Soul (die lining fire) has its center. Man
^becomes a son of the gods, and bis next step is to
. contact the Hierarchies in the heavenly realms. He
16
~JW
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
has attained to the first degree, he has become (not
been made) a Rosicrucian and thenceforth he is a
Brother of the Order,
* * *
_ _ _ . The Rosicrucian Order
TTte R o sicru cia n ^ gj^-g
O rd er a School ginning in the past
ages, and especially so since the change from an
Hermetic appellation to that of the Rosy Cross, a
school of philosophy and divine science, and a train­
ing center for spiritual development The whole
aim of this ancient Brotherhood has had in view
the transmutation of the gross, carnal man into a
highly developed spiritual, albeit practical, normal
being. It has for its Great Work, the spiritualiza­
tion of the material, physical man so that Illumina­
tion (Initiation) may take place, and that man
nay find himself a living Soul. The Rosicrucian
Order is, we repeat, a spiritual school, and as point­
ed a it by one who signed himself Christian Rosen-
kreuz, aims at the spiritual marriage (the balancing
of the Spiritual and the material) within man,
which is to make him both man and as one of the
gods.
* * *
Man has now but entered the
sacred sanctuary. Only the first
step has been taken. H e must
Imperial
Eulis
■
1
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
**■
press onward and forward. If be stops bere, be
w ill stu d still and though his work has not been
in vain be has not yet attained the goal which is
beckoning him on. If be is sincere, if be has the
persistency and the courage, the deep desire and
great love, then gradually he enters the realm of
Imperial Eulis (* ) and, i£ he is faithful, he w ill be
able to contact the Hierarchy. Here he enters the
grade of the Second Degree, again made possible
only through his own efforts and inner growth. Here
greater secrets and ancient teachings are confided to
him as was not possible in the First Degree, but he
ia yet a long way front the top of the ladder; he has,
attained fire Second Degree, it is true, but the Ex­
alted Third is still to be envisioned and worked for,
and, to be accepted as a Master t e e , much is to
be done and overcame.
(*)Imperial Eulis Is the term generally used.
Synonymous titles are: The Brotherhood of Eulis;
The Hierarchy of Balls; The Triple Order; The
Grand Hierarchy; The Imperial Order of Eulis, etc.,
a« of which, like the JBtti Priesthood, are the ex­
clusive right of the Grand Fraternity, by the right
of the descension of authority, long usage, priority
of establishment and as now protected through their
membership in the Royal Fraternity Association,,Inc.
18
•g- '-T g1
THE ROSICEUCIANS
The AEth
Priesthood
wise above Eulis, glorious as these are, there is the
y£th Priesthood with its centralized authority, and
its Priesthood, a Priesthood since time immemorial
selected from its most faithful Initiates, Herein
are developed the members who become Initiates of
the Exalted Third, and into whose keeping are con­
fided the Lesser and Greater Mysteries, and manu­
scripts whose contents are little dreamed of by the
uninitiated, and who have the privilege of being
ordained into the Priesthood, Only men may enter
here who are willing to lay aside self-conceit, self-
opinion, bias criticism, self-judgment, self-righteous­
ness and all the other vices of smallness, and who
stand ready to help all, and condemn none. To
the Neophytes in the J£th Priesthood is also taught
the Highest Occultism known to man.
Reached Here lot °! Cross du,\ t0
unholy use made of it by charlatans to cloak every
form of vicious propaganda with claims made for it.
so foolish and utterly unreasonable, drat honest
students of the Mystic and Occult have shrunk from
Sordidness
Has H ot
TH E ROSICRUCIANS 19
W
publicity therewith, and only the most ignorant have
been foolhardy enough to proclaim their member­
ship. The Temple of Eulis and the Priesthood of
riJth have thus far been free from these parasites
and It is hoped that, due to the protection, fraternal
and legal, given these associations of men, they
will so remain and not be dragged into die mire as
has the Rosy Cross.
* * *
As in the Rose Cross, where
A *U '* authority is conferred through
Authority dlK |nels so ^ the Tem­
ple of Eulis and the Priesthood of JStb. Those
Aspirants who seek to become members, must first
enroll as Neophytes and become proficient in the
histoiy and the philosophy of the Order, for the
Fraternity seeks only those who truly desire to be­
come Masters, and accepts none who, due to ignor­
ance, would be mere appendages, slaves, followers.
These applicants must pass, therefore, through the
trial chambers of development; when they have
finally attained their full status as members, earned
by their oum deliberate and conscious efforts and
inner growth, they may be appointed as teachers and
Priests. Thus it w ill be recognized that men must
be prepared within the school, thoroughly trained in
every department of the Great Work, and then,
through a line of descension, as from Grand Master
A
SK
TRY'
%
20
—
w
&
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
A
or authorized teacher, to the next in line, receive
authority.
The Number
of Degrees
Seekers alter truth and Initia­
tion have been, offered by pseudo
teachers the privilege, through
the payment of certain fees or dues, large or small,
as the case may be, of being initiated into from one
to twelve degrees, each one of which was supposed
to make the applicant a member of the Order and
therefore a Rosicrucian. Such a procedure is a
parody cm all that is sacred and sublime. Though
a man were to be “initiated” into a thousand cere­
monial degrees, he would be no more a Rosicrucian
than he had been before the “initiation-’* A mm
cannot be made a Rosicrucian, he must become one
through a process of timer growth, a spiritualization
which is known as the transmutation of the gross
into the fine. In no other way than by growth, an
actual inner development, does one ever become a
Rosicrucian and a member of the august Fraternity.
The true Rose Cross consists of but three, de­
grees, or three distinct steps of growth, the highest
of which is known to the true student and seeker as
the Exalted Third. In the first degree, he finds Ins
own Center of Light,'gains the absolute knowledge
that he is a living Soul. In the second degree, he
comes into touch or communion with file Spiritual
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
T h e Conferring
of Degrees
Hierarchy of the Fraternity and receives the knowl­
edge of the contents of ancient manuscripts dealing
with these subjects. O f the Exalted Third nothing
may he said.
* * *
The true Rose Cross, like
every other organization of
men, has a history, but
nowhere in the records, whether written or handed
down by word of mouth, is it discoverable that the
Order ever attempted to make Rosicrucians by con­
ferring symbolic degrees through the medium of les­
sons or a ritual of Initiation. N o man. Irrespective
of how great or good he may be, can be made a
Rosicrucian by any other man or set of men, nor
can any man become a Rosicrucian through cere-
• 3. menial initiation. He who offers an initiatory rite
as a basis of membership in the Fraternity, at whe
professes to be able to make any one a member,
^thereby convicts him self of clandestine practices and
being wholly ignorant of all that concerns Rosi-
gaucianism . There are now, and always have been,
ceremonies and rituals connected with the
ter^and these have been handed down to us front
j?i)r. Randblph and every other Grand Master to bis
Successor and have been “worked” in the Temple at
|Rever3y Hall. These ceremonies, however, are never
3a»eierred until after the Neophyte has become a
22
sr
THE ROSICRUCIANS
'■mry
Rosicrucian and passed over the Threshold by his
own deliberate, conscious efforts and through inner
spiritual growth. The records of some of these Con­
vocations and ceremonies as held at the SEE yearn
before the establishment of clandestine Rosicrucian
organizations, are to be found in the Copyrighted
books issued in memorial* of the Convocations, and
are indisputable proofs of the existence of the Order.
« _ , In the Great
S e c r e c y a n d Work of the Fra-
Gnmp Instructions temity, group in­
struction is absolutely incompatible with the inner
training required of the individual Neophyte. Why?
Because no two people are alike. One person may
be strong in cate faculty or emotion and uncontrolled
in some passion, while another has conditions wholly
different to meet The philosophy of the Fraternity
is identical for both, but the training is wholly dif­
ferent, and, as it is the work of the Order to bring
about an all around development of the Neophyte, it
at once w ill be apparent that each student must be
individually guided and trained, and that this in­
dividual treatment is impossible in group instruc­
tions or along general lines.
Secrecy is essential. Without secrecy one student
would permit another to follow the plan outlined
particularly for him, and the danger and damage
23
wtr«
THE ROSICRUCIANS
-* *
would be even greater than should a physician pre­
scribe a potent remedy for a patient whose tempera­
ture and vitality are subnormal, and that sufferer
induce a victim of high blood pressure to take the
sa w remedy; or, as when the psydro-aaalyst pre­
scribes a course of development for one who is
creatively impotent, and that one were to permit a
friend exceptionally strong in that department of
his nature, to follow the same instructions. In either
case ruin would follow, possibly death in one in­
stance and degradation ami insanity in tire other.
The secrecy demanded by the Order is for the pro­
tection of its Neophytes and their fellow men.
* * *
Silence
Secrecy
Having the above fact in mind, Dr.
Paul Tyner, one of its teachers,
said, in speaking of the Fraternity:
“Roeicructae la spiritual, not material; a
Fraternity rattier than an Order. Its members
are gathered from the Bast and the West,
from among the lofty and the lowly, the learn­
ed and toe unlettered, wherever there are free
Souls, and sympathetic and aspiring natures.
It embraces all ages, races and climes, and
reaches from the visible far into the Invisible
realms of being, ‘Silence, secrecy and unpre­
tending good works are its characteristics,' and
one member may pass his life next door to
another, and neither- $4 aware of the bonds
between them unless some stress of need draw
the curtain aside. The law of Silence Is par­
ticularly emphasized, vbedfenee to toe Injunc­
tion to 'eater Into toy closet and shut toe door’
m
frm n
%
< 2 = *=
24 TH E ROSICRUCIANS
m
^TRY
EyusL
Those Who Talk
Do not Know;
Thom Who Know
Do not T al\
being Imperative on alt who would have access
to the source ot power."
* * *
Whoever claims, or even
admits, except in defense
against persecution or
fraud, that he is a Rosi-
crucian, or a member of
the Rosicrucian Order or Fraternity, thereby pro*
claims himself an imposter, a charlatan, and wholly
ignorant of the first principles of the Order. Even
the teachers connected with the Fraternity avoid such
a claim, and, when their connection becomes known,
modestly profess that they are humble workers in
the great Brotherhood. A ll sincere students when
speaking of the Order and its work, w ill refer to it
only as something in which they are deeply inter­
ested and which they have found good. Such stu­
dents will avoid those who wear any form of em­
blem indicating their connection with any organiza­
tion claiming to be Rosicrucian, knowing them at
once to be either charlatans, or of those who do no!
yet comprehend the first of the great Occult Laws;
“Know all things but thyself remain unknown.”
Insignia and
Peculiar Clothing
The most ancient
and universal Law
of die , legitimate
rje"
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
s : «i
i
Order (*) forbids the wearing of any insignia or
peculiar clothing which would Indicate that (me is
either a student or a member of the august Fra­
ternity. It plainly declares that he who does so, is
at once marked thereby as an imposter and a charla­
tan. This Law has never been revoked, and never
can it be, for a spiritual Hierarchy never declares
itself to the profane.
* * *
p ity J^o t Real members. Initiates belong-
n ing to the true Order, who have
Contempt n
lltM
l<
n
d
,
membership by deliberate, conscious self-effort cov­
ering a period of from one to fire years, and among
whom are numbered many belonging to the highest
and noblest professions, yet whose affiliations remain
wholly unknown to men at large, smile, though with
deep pity, when they hear some foolish (though in­
nocent as to intent) dupe proclaiming himself as ft
Roeicrodan. And it is a pity that these be thus
blinded for, due to their self-delusion they may have
dceed to themselves every avenue where they might
enter to become real brethren of the Order.
(*)8ee The Roelcruoiane: Their Teachings, FbJto
Bophicat Publishing Company, Quakertown, JPa.
4 ft
TRY'
JEUU5
26 TH E ROSICRUC1ANS
So blindly ignorant are these charla-
* e tans and their dupes of the real mean-
iv o s e jng the august Fraternity that they
are unaware that its main symbol, the Rose, is an
emblem meaning silence. From the earliest time the
rose has been the emblem of silence. Eros, in the
Greek mythology, presented a rose to the god of
silence, and to this day sub rasa, cm- “under the rose,”
means to keep a secret The Rose Cross, mystically
interpreted, means; To keep silent before the Cross.
Many A re Called
But Few A re Chosen
M any who sin­
cerely b e l i e v e
themselves deeply
in earnest in seeking for wisdom or spiritual power,
apply to the Fraternity for instruction and guidance.
O f these the greater number fall by the wayside.
W hy? Because they do not possess the strength tuad
the manhood— or womanhood— to think, desire and
iwork, day after day, for their own purification, inner
development, and freedom from slavery to self and
others. The Path is never easy. There is no one
to praise and glorify. Frequently faults and weak­
nesses are grievous and these must be pointed mil
without mercyr *The Neophyte cannot immediately
see the fruits of his efforts. There is no applause
in his favor, he is possibly inherently weak, and, as
is to be exported of all who are lacking in true worth
THE ROSICRUCIANS
'-M '■ 1......
2?
• T 1
and manhood, seeks dm easier way. These are the
men and women who most frequently become the
victims of the clandestine organizations who offer
them Rosicmdan fellowship and, in connection
therewith, the privilege of proclaiming themselves
Rosicrurians if they but enroll for their lessons and
contribute the monthly dues or apply for their cere­
monial degrees.
Teachers
And Fees
The instructors and guides con­
nected with the Great Work are all
business or professional men and
do not depend on the Great Work for a salary or
any part of their livelihood. A ll that they do, is
done because of their love of the Work and their
desire to help along their fellow men.
As in every honest endeavor, as even in the most
unselfish charity, with which an expense is con­
nected, there must be a financial return ca- nothing
can be accomplished. T ie Great Work, in its finan­
cial department, is based On sound, honest and
straightforward business principles. There are
neither monthly nor yearly dues. The actual ex­
pense, such as for the issue of lessons, the publica­
tion of necessary text books which teach the philos­
ophy of the Order, and the vast amount of corres­
pondence necessary, is in part defrayed by a fairly
correctly proportioned donation required from all
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
sincere students cm enrolling. The balance neces­
sary is covered by the tithes received from members
and students who are deeply interested in the wel­
fare of the Work and highly appreciative of the
benefits they received.
*
Wisdom Cannot
Be Sold
* *
W!sd0 m~-apiritual truths,
cannot be sold. The Order
has no truths fen sale, and
the enrollment donation does not cover a sale of
lessons, or a system of training. It Is required merely
to cover honest, legitimate expenses connected with
the W ort H ie modem paper house does not fur­
nish free paper, stenographers and printers do not
give their services, nor does Unde Sam cany the
m ail, unless cash payment is made. The enrollment
donation or “fee” demanded is for the express pur­
pose of covering these and other necessary items.
He who is unwilling to help defray these costs is
either blind <
xt dishonest and it is utterly impossible
for even the greatest Adept or Master to bring him
into Illumination or Mastership.
The fallacy that
something may be
received for nothing
cannot be too quickly dispelled. The absolute, un­
deniable, and unescapable Law is Equal Exchange
or Compensation. We must, in the final analysis.
Something for
Toothing Impossible
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
■ 11
pay for what we get, and in proportion as we re­
ceive. A ll honest men and women are w illing to
comply with this law, and the Rose Cross can be
of benefit to no other, nor can it in any way help
them.
Some to Pay
Others to Benefit
The illogical reason­
ing that free-will of­
ferings w ill take care
of any great work is wholly fallacious and te d s to
weakness and degradation. In some instances, or in
some special work, it may appear to prove profitable
to the prompters, bat In the Great Work it cannot
find place W HY? Because as stated, we all ulti­
mately must pay for that which we receive, and to
accept that for which we have not made a propor­
tionate exchange, at once makes us weaklings who
shun our duty, and dishonest at heart because we
accept that which does not belong to us, and the
man or woman who is not honest at heart cannot
become an Initiate, or a Rosicrueian. Even if some­
one else were to pay, that does not save or excuse the
(me who receives without making the righteous ex­
change, though it might compensate the workers
or teachers; and it would, at the same time, make
these workers dishonest la that they permitted a
wrong. The Rose Cross Is based on Law, self-
endeavor, and above all, self-responsibility.
30 TH E ROSICRUCIANS
1 llilllllI
■
1
1
B
u
m »
n
i\tS
a
t~
\... mfj
l
i
l
l
U
ftr
Foreign
Authority
In no Instance, and under no
consideration, may the legiti­
mate Rose Cross In any country
grant authority (a Charter) to men in another
country to establish a branch of the said Order in
said foreign country, unless there does not exist in
that countoy a s Order functioning under the same
or a similar name. For illustration: If there is a
Rosicrudan Order, Fraternity, or Brotherhood in
Francs, then die legitimate Order in America could
noli under any terms, except by express permission
of the Order already functioning in France, grant
a Charter to applicants from France, To attempt
to do so, would at once stigmatize the American
' Order as clandestine, since it is guilty of not respect­
ing Rosicrudan Law. It is equally true that neither
the French, Spanish or Swiss Order, under any
pretext, can grant a Charter to any man, or asso-
dation of men, in America, to operate as Rosicro-
cians, because it is known to all students, and
provable by published documents, that an Order of
that title has existed in America since 1857.
Masons w ill at once understand this, since each
country and state jealously guards its territory and
jurisdiction and refuses to permit the establishment
of or operation within its territory of associations
styling themselves Masonic (even though they add
“Ancient” or “M ystical” to “Masonic”) which did
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
-m m " mm
fAot receive authority from the Grand Lodge of said
.w> jurisdiction.
t , t As a matter of fact, the leaders of clandestine
Rosicrutian organizations know this to be true and
^Inadvertently admit it in their literature. For ex­
ample, one of these organizers, when engaged In
^establishing his illegitimate progeny, made die claim
in a magazine published in December, 1916, that:
“The ****** n s established In America In
February, 1916. ****** its rights and privil­
eges and wonderful laws, having been trans-
.\*>f mltted to the Supreme Council in this country
Htf? from the Order in Europe by the approval ot
the Supreme Pontif of the Order in Egypt and
through the Supreme Council of France,'’
Further; "The Order Itself is International.
It has existed since 1500 B. C. . .
now so happens that this pseudo-Rosicrudan
jffcody finds itself at odds with another organization,
almost ss lacking in authority and legitimate exist-
fence, but which apparently is making inroads into
'the ranks of the former by reason of a much finer
ritual. What is the result? In an article published
•Ifn its magazine November 1927, eleven yearn later,
purporting to give the history of the true Order, the
||a m e writer says:
"There are several organizations having such
names aa ***»•*, which name could not be in­
corporated or legally used because it la a name
of a foreign body,"
.Thus does the writer convict him self and his own
acts,: proving that an Order of foreign persuasion,
Mg.' i
32 TH E ROSICRUCIANS
m
m
gm
whether his own, or that of another, cannot have a
legal right of existence in America.
* * *
Incorporation
K[ot Sufficient
Mm who have never been
enrolled with the true
Rosicrucians, who had re­
ceived no instructions, much, less training in the
Order, and therefore who could not obtain legitimate
authority to establish Rosicmd&n centers, lodges,
temples, a id es or colleges, have attempted to over­
come this handicap by Incorporating their associa­
tion. Incorporation does not grant an authority not
previously possessed. To m ate this plain, even to a
novice, let us say that a number of m m might
fraudulently gain possession of the Masonic ritual
(by eavesdropping or betrayal by a M ason) and
could justly claim to be in possession of the Masonic
knowledge, yet the fact that they were in possession
of this knowledge and associated themselves together,
and obtained a State charter under a Masonic name,
would in no sense give them the authority—the right
and privilege to initiate men and style themselves
Masons, The first requisite is that they be legiti­
mately made Mamas, that they be in good standing,
and that they obtain the rights and privileges from
the established authority within that jumdicUtm,
and then to incorporate, or operate (incorporation
not necessary) under that Charter. T o attempt &
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
I'W
IL
. 1“* Z
"
33
>"*r-
$
do otherwise, at once makes them clandestine and
|fraudulent. This identical law governs all Rosicru­
dan operations, and the establishment of Lodges,
(s Temples, Centers, Societies and Colleges, and every
^.association of men in America operating under a
| title Rosicrudan (or one so similar as to be easily
mistaken) which does not possess authority from the
^ originally established Order, & without legitimate
^-authority, therefore wholly clandestine and operat­
ising under false colors.
■
„ * * *
The Rase Cross n» K*y c™. i»-
a ^ Incorporation
|ttot incorporate as such since an incorporation at
*«ice becomes a business association from which all
Ijsecrecy and privacy are eliminated. The Order
"proper is composed of the Supreme Hierarch who
I" is. known, and the Priesthood and instructors, who
'•^re unknown, and, as these latter do not proclaim
res, they cannot form themselves into a car-
ion which would at once proclaim them and
sir assodation. Any organization which Incor­
ates, as a Rosicrudan body thereby proclaims
as cpesating without legitimate authority. The
:protection, the Brotherhood has, is the result of
•existence and the use of die name, and of the
^-transmission of authority from one Grand Master
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
.'a** -
to the wixt appointed by him, and Grand Hierarchs
to teachers, and by becoming a member of an incor­
poration which has in view the protection of its
members(*).
* * *
Defense and n e R
o
s
e
C
r
a
8
S
\“a
I
r
e
a
^
* h a i n M A i s r i m i t A l l i f A e r i i r - l t ....
Prosecution
stated, being essentially a spirit­
ual Hierarchy, can neither de­
fend itself against persecution, new prosecute those
who deliberately steal from them their name and
sacred possessions. For its protection it must de­
pend upon those who have been selected for that
purpose and who are capable of fulfilling this duty
to the letter.
v * * -
The
Osirians
The Sens of Isis and Osiris, was
permanently established, in Amer­
ica, in 1908, a grove was bought
and buildings erected, and, in June of that year, the
first Ancient Egyptian Initiation was held. The
records of later Initiations appear in the Convoca­
tion books as well as in newspaper reports. The
Osirians are a body o f men recognized by the
Rosicrucian Order, members of the Royal Fraternity
Association, Inc.? and working under authority of
(*)As far tools aa 1909, the Rose Cross became a
member of the Royal Fraternity Association, Inc.
This Charter waa duly filed.
TH E ROSICMUCIANS
.-...........
.... ■'■l
l «ap— —a»iu '*■*» "
3$
the Rose Cross. This Order is not engaged in con­
ferring Rosicrucian degrees, nor does it make Rosi-
crucian initiates. It iq an outer body of the Rosi-
crudans, possessing a sublime, wholly Egyptian
ritual, its members known as Osirians.
The Osirians are the M ilitia of the Rosy Cross.
In them is vested the right and duty, as well as
authority, to defend the Fraternity from all attacks
and to prosecute (not persecute) when necessary,
those who, without authority, assume names, titles,
appellations or nomenclature to which they possess
no right and which mislead thousands of sincere
seekers.
* * *
Fraudulent
Claims
it is Utterly Incomprehensible
that men and women who pro­
fess to seek the truth and the
wisdom of the Secret Schools said Fraternities,
should be so easily misled by self-appointed teachers
who, though drey have never been Neophytes in the
Rose Cress, have never been taught the Inner Fhil-
Jpscphy or received the slightest training in the Secret
•^School, set forth the claim that spiritual masters
appeared to them in sleep or trance, initiated them
while in such state, and appointed them as masters
at .teachers of the Rose Cross. In all cases there
must be a mundane, physical line of descension
;%ade possible by having been a worthy Neophyte in
36
2 m :
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
the Older, as well as a spiritual authority from the
Hierarchies of the Fraternity, which last follows, or
is the result of faithfulness on the part of the
Aspirant who has attained a recognized degree as
an outgrowth of obedience to certain Laws, which
obedience brings about inner spiritual or Soul De­
velopment and Ilhunimttion.
Despite all Rosicrurian law and usage, one, for­
merly a student of Theosophy and German Mysti­
cism (in itself not condemned here) started an or­
ganization in 1911, styling itself Rosicrucian, and,
minus any other authority than his own words, this
individual proclaimed that an Elder Brother of the
Rosicrucian Order came to him in his room, and,
before the matter was aided, authorized him to give
freely of the Rosicrucian teachings to America; this,
despite the fact, that, with the exception of a few
excerpts made without credit from our copyrighted
hooks, his publications contain no Rosicrucian teach­
ings whatever.
or the casting of horoscopes. This is not a Rosi­
crucian science. The individual student or member
has a perfect right to believe In astrology. That is
his privilege as a free agent, but the Fraternity does
Teaching
Astrology
31
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
¥ not endorse it, and never permits any member of
I the official body to teach It
j Out of Their Own Mouths, and by Their
flr Own Words, Shall the Charlatan
* Be Convicted
I C olon ies In the romantic but charlatanic
I and Lodges literature lately issued, as •well
h as in syndicated newspaper ar­
ticles, the statements are made (with the one pur­
pose in mind of trying to discount the work and
authority o f the legitimate body established about
. 1857, and in an attempt to show the priority of
existence of the illegitimate organization) that Rosi-
i crucian colonies existed in Philadelphia, Ephrata
and other places in the State of Pennsylvania, prior
to and during the period of the American Revolu-
p lion. Like almost every other statement appearing
in this dass of literature, this story is manufactured
i out of whole doth and should be looked upon as a
Highly colored fairy tale, rather than as truth em­
anating from a Rosicrucian source.
Religious colonies did exist throughout the State,
especially round about Philadelphia, Lancaster,
: Ephrata and Bethlehem, but these were in no sense
’ Rosicrucian; they were of the Quaker, Mennonite,
Moravian and other sects. Benjamin Franklin and
others may have belonged to die Order, as well as
other individuals who came from France where die
38 TH E RO?JCRUCIANS
•nm
rnjStm
m
mu$A
Fraternity was testy active at the time, but neither
colony nor lodge had been established prior to 1857.
* * *
Peculiar
_ , phase of the matter is that
Statements and all Afese claim3 are ^
Contradictions by the man who, in 1915
established a pseudo*order and asserted at the time,
without qualification, m his literature, magazines
and newspaper interviews, that prior to the time he
established the Order there had existed no Rose
Cross in America, and that he had been called to
a foreign country to receive his authority.
In this man’s official magazine under publication
date of November, 1927, the statement is made:
"The Headquarters have been established in
many Sagtern localities since the dawn of
Rosieruelantsm in America in 1662. and In the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries there
were national Headquarters located at various
times In Philadelphia, Germantown, ftphrata,
Pennsylvania, in New York, Baltimore, Boston
and other cities,"
In a still later publication, entitled “Sane facte
(Sic) about the Rosicruciaas,” he states:
"And, lastly, the Order Is closely allied with
the early history of America and Is on© hun­
dred per cent American in this land. It was
first estabiistoda- in America in 1666 and its
original building* still stand In Fairmont Park,
Philadelphia. Among its early officers were
Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson."
Let us now take a step backward and examine the
THE ROSIGWJCIANS 39
y official literature of this man. and his organization,
» In one of his first booklets, is this statement:
\ “On the 9th of August, 1909, the present Grand
f Master of the Order In America again renewed
L his eighth annual application for the privilege
P of establishing the Order in America [the
If italics ours]. Already prepared hi the prin-
j1 doles, lie was siren the Anal tests In the City
of Toulouse, France, where tlie Grand Lodge
of France was established In 883 A. D. under
£ the charp# given to one Araand II., of Royal
w lineage. The necessary papers were prepared,
A certain Jewels assigned and the sponsorship
fl guaranteed by Raynaud Brail de Bellcastle-
d Lings, Grand Master of the R. C. in France
/ and its Colonies. The papers permitted pub-
f lie negotiations to be made in the United
f States only after Ja n u a ry 1, 1915; for the year
| 1915 w a s the one dealfloated centuries before
I. as the proper time for the Order to be bom
\ c a u s ^
(*)i In America [emphasis ours],"
If any honest seeker for facts can reconcile these
statements, all of which appear in the official litera­
ture, then he must have developed into a super-
logician. One more fact in this connection: The
statement has been openly published that in 1913
this nan appealed to the Society for Psychical Re­
search to help him form a lodge of the Rosy Cross
but met with indifference. In 1915 he met with
better success, for, as correspondence w ill show,
several of those who had taken vows in the legiti­
mate Order, broke them, and associated themselves
(*)Note carefully that the word born, not re-
instituted or reborn, la used.
TH E ROSICRUCIANS
with him and die pseudo-order was hatched.
* * *
H ad Knowledge o f
the Legitimate Order J "
which had long been established. We again quote
from Ms official literature, the identical booklet from
which the former quotation was made:
"TMa le why the attempts of Dr. Randolph and
one or more other Rosicruetans of foreign
Initiation to establish the Order In this country
within Hi® past hundred years hay® always
foiled. The necessary cooperation and priv­
ilege could not be secured, even regardless of
fbe fact that Dr. Randolph was one of the
foremost men of the order who ever lived In
this country and was at one time GRAND
MASTER OF THE R. C. Lodge of France,
which was attended by one of the Napoleons
(emphasis ours].*’
Just a question: If Dr. Randolph was, as here
admitted, the Grand Master of the Rosicrucians in
Francs, to whom could Dr, Randolph have applied
for authority to establish tile Order in America when
he returned and found no Order established here?
Was his authority as a Grand Master, not sufficient
to permit him to establish the Order in any country
where it had not previously existed, there being no
higher office than that of Grand Master? This
writer and ■founder of a pseudo-order, strangely,
does not claim to have been a Grand Master, he
claims (which is here denied) that he was merely
THE ROSICRUCIANS 41
•“•HP" •ne*
an Initiate yet he secerns authority to establish a
Grand Lodge of the OrderI
* * *
a r .___ _
_ * In much o f the pseudo-
A n International
E oay sued by men ■who have
never been even enrolled as Neophytes in the Rose
Cross, and who can know nothing of its inner
teachings or laws, the claim is made that the Order
is International. This is contrary to every Law of
the Order. The Supreme Grand Lodge or Hierarch­
ical organization of each country Is separate and
independent, and the officers of the Grand Lodge of
one country have absolutely no authority in the
government of that of another country. The one
exception was that of Cptmt Gotmotti, in h is selec­
tion of Dr, James R. Phelps as head of the Rose
Cross lUtminati and was authorized and legitimate
doe to the fact that the Illuminati had not been
established in America prior to this act
Colonization
The Rosicrudans do not at­
tempt to form colonies of its
members either in America or any other country. As
a matter of record, the offidal body frowns on any
attempt to do this, knowing fu ll well that such
attempt would be foredoomed to failure and would
adversely react on the Order. Moreover, to do this,
THE ROSICRUCIANS
'TRY The Publishing
of Boo\s
even if practical, would be to set aside the age-old
law of secrecy, of which the Rose is an emblem,
as regards to Neophytes and Initiates, something
which even the Supreme Grand Lodge canned legally
do.
* * *
Irrespective of the false­
hoods published, the Rose
Cross publish no books.
It is true that the teachers and perceptors recom­
mend certain books to students, insist, even, that
these students procure them and study them. This
is because such books teach the philosophy and the
history of the Order. This, we maintain. Is as
necessary and honorable as it is for a student of
medicine to study the text books of his particular
school so that be may become well versed in all the
knowledge that has been accumulated during times
past and may be wholly proficient in his particular
line of endeavor. The true Rose Cross encourages
its students to investigate, and would, if legally pos­
sible, send every seeker to the Library of Congress
there to investigate priority of existence and all other
facts connected with the Order. The Rose Cross
derives no profit from the books it recommends de­
spite all innuendoes published and promulgated by
the leaders of clandestine organizations in order to
justify themselves and detract attention from their
S3
THE RQSICRUCIANS 43
ji ......M
F
activities. As a natter of fact, these questions are
raised to becloud the Issue and to hide the real
facts relative to the genuine Rosicrudans and their
work, and with the intent to prevent their followers
from reading published books and thereby possibly
learning the truth. As an example: the Masonic
Publishing Companies may advertise books and texts
dealing with Masonic Philosophy, History and
Usages, written by men recognized as authorities era
the subject; even so, legitimate publishing houses
may print, advertise and sell books dealing with the
krumy, h istory and philosophy of the Rosicrurians,
both ancient and modern, but the Order may not
advertise itself, as an Order; and may not appear
* * *
All Aspirants who seek to enroll in
the Great Work must first secure
and read; T he R osicru dan si T heir
Teachings; T he P hilosophy of F ire; T h e Rose Cross
O rder. Why? Because these hooks teach the phil­
osophy and the history of the Order and it is the
desire of the Fraternity that each applicant shall be
fully informed before entering the School so that
there shall be no disappointment It is the wish of
the Older that each Neophyte become a foundation
stone in the Great Structure and this would be im­
possible If the student were not fully conversant
in print
B o t%
N ecessary
TOE ROSICRUCIANS
with flie history and philosophy of the Great Work.
One might just as well expect a man to become an
expert in Law or a great physician and Surgeon
without the study of text books, as for a man to
become a M aster-Initiate without a full comprehen­
sion of the philosophy and the law underlying die
Great Work of the Fraternity, W e seek only those
who wish to know and to become; mere camp fol­
lowers are not sought
T "
THE ROSICRUCIANS
T H E P H I L O S O P H I C A L
publishing company
The Philosophical Publishing Company has been
in the bode publishing business for more than
twenty-five years and is Justly proud of its record
and its known policy erf fair dealing.
This Company has issued In the past, and is still
so engaged in issuing, doth-bouad bodes that sell
at $1.00, actually for less than the cost of produc­
tion, It does this so that those with little money
may possess the best of books. In common, with
high class publishers of fine books, it issues some
of these books in de luxe style, printed on fine paper,
deckle edged, leather bound and, according to style,
priced from $10.00 to $50.00 or more, per copy.
The one dream of this Company has been and
continues to be, that the day may dawn when it will
be in position to issue the world’s roost beautiful
bocks and at a cost proportionate to their rarity and
beauty. It believes that if the lay reader is willing
, to pay immense prices for books of prose or poetry,
then surely there are students who desire what they
deem “priceless treasures” to be issued in equally
- beautiful style.
Books are issued on philosophy, religion, and
I p u s
2
46 THE ROSICRUCIANS
many other subjects. Private books are printed
also. However, this Company has no official con­
nection with the Rosierucian3. It does not claim
that any of the books, not even the private or the
de luxe subscription books can make either an
Illuminatior a Rosicrucian. No book published can
do that, nor can any course of lessens or instructions
which may be issued weekly or monthly for many
years and which ultimately cost the student many
times more than a legitimate scholarship would. This
Company has never made the claims attributed to it,
and the men who constantly cast innuendoes at this
Company in their publications, do so with the de­
liberate intent of distracting the attention of their
victims from their own numerous publications and
the fact that they are sailing under false colors, and
using the name of a Fraternity for which use they
have not one shred of authority.
The Philosophical Publishing Company
(Registered)
Quakertown, Pa.
Established at
Allentown, Pa.
1904.
