{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__clymer___the_gods.pdf","mytitle":"The Gods","mylang":"de"}
JALVIC~ L. \...JitCCl~.C
Eastern Representatiue
SONS OF ISIS AND OSIRJ~ Registered
P. 0. Box 384 G. p. O.
New Yorlt City
The Gods.
The Immaculate Conception. Setting Forth the
Mystery of the Ages, and How this Supposed
Impossible Condition is Really Under Natural
and Divine Laws. Giving Full Details and a
Challenge to All the World.
Bv DR. R. SwiNBURNE CLYM!tR.
I
Author of "Alchemy and the Alchemists,"
"Divine Alchemy," "The Rosicrucians;
Their Teachings,'' etc.
,.,- .... :: .
_
, ·- · -· ..
PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING Co.,
ALL!lNTOWN, PA.
..
-' ·
, ' '
• • ••• • • • • .. ...... .... w ...
::::• ~ :. : •. .,•: =~..~ ~u"'
::::.. ·:·: : .... : "'.,~ "'..
......... .··~~~
:··: ::·~: =
..:. ~
.. .... .. ..."' ""
.. ............ : .. ............ ~
~.....~:-::;·.:··.! ::.:-:·-....'!'*
··.:::::··.·....·
.·:.·:·...·.
..... .
... ....
.... .....
.... ....
........
···.: :i::: ::::
..:: ..:··.:·..·:
.. ::::.··: :::-:::: .
.......... .
' .. ..........
r----·-·· ·-
T' J
870032A
Tll.DE.N 1'"0'.: ;·; D;,TJ•jNS
R iO~tl L
NOTICE.
This work is copyright~d by Dr. R. Swinburne
Clym~r .
All rights and titl~s and matter reserved .
The right of translation and foreign coprrights
is also rer.e;vcd.
Copyrighl~d 1910.
r-
·~
r--
The Mystery Solved.
GODS.
"THE sons of God saw the daughters of
men that they were fair; and thev took
them wives of all which they choose."-
Genesis 7, v. 2.
''There were giants in the earth in those
days; and also after that, when the sons
of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they
bare children to them, the same became mighty men
which were of old, men of renown. "-Genesis 5, v. 4.
Beloved Scholar, the Mystery of the Ages has been the
birth of the Christ. The Church has taught that Christ was
of Immaculate Conception; but, believe me, that same
Church ha!: NOT believed in that Doctrine. It belongs to
the men of that oldest and most mighty Fraternity to en-
lighten you and those who would listen, for we hold the
secret, and we will give you it.
Does it seem !:o very strange that Mary might have con-
ceh·ed without human agency ? It may seem strange to
those who know not the secret, but surely the student can
guess the secret, for it has been hinted at in all Rosicrucian
literature.
In explaining this mystery to you, we do not intend to
depend upon our explanation, but we will depend entirely
upon the Bible, that book accepted as truth by all Chri~­
tians, and we will also place before you the writings of the
Holy Fathers.
In the Rosicrucian romance of the "Comte de Gabalis,"
or ''CoaYersations Upon the Secret Sciences,'' by the Abbe
...
Tlt:E DIVINE M:YSTERV.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
de Villars, we read:
''When you shall be.enrolled among the children
of the Philosophers you will discover that the ele-
ments are inhabited by very holy creatures, whom,
in consequence of the sin of unhappy Adam, his
too unhappy prosterity have been forbidden to see
or know. The immense space that is between earth
and heaven possesses inhabitants much more noble
than the birds and gnats merely; the vast ocean bus
many more dwellers than the dolphins and the
whales; the depths of the earth are not created on-
ly for the moles; and the elements of fire, more
noble than the other three, were not made to re-
main void.
''The air is full of an innumerable multitude of
creatures of the human form; great lovers of the
sciences, sabtle, benevolent to the wise, but ene-
mies to the stupid and ignorant. Their wives and
their daughers are of bold and masculine beauty,
such as painters have represented the Amazons.
"Know also that the seas and rivers are as fully
inhabited as the air; the wise ancients have men-
tioned these populations under the names of Un-
dines or Nymphs. There are few males among
them, but a vast number of females; their beauty
is extreme, and the daughters of men are not to be
compared to them.
·'The earth is filled to the center by Gnomes, a
people of small stature•, guardians of the treasures
of the mines and quarries; they are ingenious,
friends of mankind, and easy to command; they
furnish the children of the wise with all the
money that they require, and ask little for their
7
*See the book, ''The Irreconcilable Gnomes, or Continua-
tion to the CoHltc rle Gabalis," published by this house.
8 TitE DIVINE MYSTERY.
'tHE D~VINE MYSTERY.
service, except the glory of being commanded.
The Gnomides, their wives, are small but very
agreeable, and their custom is very curious.
9
As regards the Salamanders, inhabitants of the region of
fire, they serve the philosophers, but they do not wish to
seek their company with much eagerness, and their wives
and daughters rarely allow themselves to be seen; the wives
or the Salamanders are beautiful, in fact more beautiful than
all the others, because they are of a purer element. I pass
over the description of these people because, when one of
us, you will see them yourself at Ieasure, and easily if you
have the curiosity. You will see their customs, their mode
of living, their manners, their policy. their admirable laws;
you will be charmed with the beauty of their minds, even
more than with their bodies; but you will not be able to re·
frain from pity when they tell you that their souls are mor-
tal, that they have no hope of the eternal enjoyment of
divine felicity in the presence of that Supreme Being whom
they know and WHOM 'l'HRY RELIGIOUSLY ADORR. They
will tell you, that being composed of the purest particles of
the elements which they inhabit, and having no contrary
qualities in them. as they are made of but one element they
do not die till after many centuries. But what is time com-
pared to eternity? They return at last into eternal nothing-
ness; and tl:is thought so afflicts them that the philosophers
have much trouble in consoling them.
Beloved Student, you will see that, although
these Elementalsare of the purest of the pure, they
are not immortal, because they are ONLY of ONE
element instead of a combination of the four. BEAR
IN MIND THIS GRRA'l' LAW. These Elementals CAN
become immortal if some mortal will have inter·
course with them. This is the great law. Bear
in mind further, that there are but few males, and
these males will seek intercourse with earth woman
-as Genesis states1 witn the daughters of man1-
10 THE DIVINE MV$l'ERV..
.
TltE DIVINE MYSTERY.
(bear this in mind) IF THHY CAN FIND ONH MYSTI-
CALLY INCLINED AND WHO IS PURE. So, aS the
Bible teaches, the sons of God see that the daught-
ers of man are fair and they beget children with
them.
''Now, bear in mind further. Unlike man, but
LIKE Gods, these Elementals are TRUlt TO ONE
ONLY; thus it happens that, there being but few
males among them, seldom will such an Elemental
have intercourse with woman, and when they do a
Christ or Saviour is born; for KNOW: ''When the
sons of God came unto the daughters of men, and
they bare children to them, the same BECAME
MIGHTY MEN WHICH WERlt OF OLD, MEN OF RE-
NOWN.''
11
Tht: student will now grasp the meaning of this mi~hty
mystery, and will no longer condemn tl1e mystery of the
immaculate conception.
St. Luke 1, 26. And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel
was sent from God unto a city in Galilee named Nazareth.
27. To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Jo-
seph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was
Mary.
28. And the angel came in to ·her, and said, Hail thou
that art highly favored, the Lord is with thee, blessed art
thou among women.
29. Apd when she saw him, she was troubled at his say-
ing, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this
should be.
30. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou
hast found favor with God.
31. And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and
bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus.
32. He shall be great, and shalt be called the son of the
Highest; ami the Lord God shall gh·e unto him the throne
of his father DaYid,
12 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 13
33. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever;
and of his kingdom there shall be no end.
34. Then said Mary unto the a11gel, How shall this be,
seeing that I know not A MAN?
Our student must note this question carefully,
for she asks the direct question: "How shall this
be, SRRING 1 KNOW NO'.L' A MAN?
Answer: "And the angel answered and said unto her,
the Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the
Highest shall overshadow thee; therefore also that holy
thing that shall be born of thee shall be called the son of
God. (The son of a God.)
Always bear in mind that the words Holy Ghost
means nothing short of the word "Fire." Holy
Ghost is the Spirit, and in its final essence Spirit is
the Fire. So the overshadowing of Mary was noth-
ing other than that of a son of God, the Elemental
of Fire-a Salamander.
Now, note further what the Abbe de Villars had to say:
"Our fathers, being TRUR philosophers, and speaking to
God face to face, complained to him of the wretched fate of
these people; and God, whose mercy is illimitable, remem-
bered him that it was not impossible to find a remedy for
this evil.''
He made known to them that in the same man-
ner as man, by the alliance which he has contracted
with God, has been made a participator of the di-
vinity; so the Sylphs, the Gnomes, the Nymphs,
and the Salamanders, by the alliance which they
MAY contract with man, can be made participators
of man's immortality. Thus a Nymph or a Sylph-
ide becomes immortal, and capable of the bliss to
which we aspire, when she is happy enough to
marry one of the "wise;" and a Gnome or a Sylph
ceases to be mortal from the moment that he mar-
ries one of the daughters of ''men.''
14 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 15
And thus is the mystery solved, in words so plain that any
student may underst!:n:l.
It is here given in a few words and very plainly. This
mystery was, to a certain extent; solved by the early church
Fathers, as is proven by the work: "Demoniality, or Incubi
and Succubi," by the Rev. Father Sinistrari of Ameno.
(17th century.)
However, the church Fathers believe that these Elemen-
tals, called demons by them, were all wicked; they believed
and taught that women bare children from these demons,
but that such were always men who were against the Cath-
olic Church, then known as the only TRUB church.
This will be enlarged upon throughout the book, which
is really a translation of the work by the Rev. Father Sinis-
trari, a1;d which is now in such form a!; is agreeable to our
present century. In other words, instead of being called
Demons we call them Elementals. The same with other
teachings in the hook. The body is the same, but it is giv-
en in the terms used at the present day.
Belm•ed Student, you have been given the mystery. You
need not believe without knowing like the millions before
you. Yon can KNOW, for herein will you find full instruc-
tions so that yon may be able to save many of the
.''Daughters of God.''
R. SWINBURNE CLYMER.
16 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
DEMON I AL ITY
OR
-INCUBI AND SUCCUBI.
PRELUDE.
ALL theologians haYe devoted more
or less pages to the question of material
intercourse between man and the demon·
Thick Yolumes have been written about
witchcraft, and the merits of this work
were but !:ilencer if it merely cleveloped
the ordinary thesis; but such is not its chara(;teristic. The
ground-matter, from which it derives a truly original and
philosophical Stamp, is an entirely novel del\lOnstration of
the existence of Incubi and Succubi t. as rational animals!,
both corporal and !'piritual like ourselves, lh·ing in our
midst, being horn and dying like us, and lastly redeemed as
we are, through the merits of Jesus Christ, and capable of
t The reader must bear in mind that these words are no
longer used, but that all TRUE Philosophers now call these
beings the Elementals. The student must, however, bear
in mind the great Rosicrucian LaVI', i. c., that there are t\\'o
kinds. The true Elementals known as the Gnomes, Salaman-
ders, Undines and Svlphs, and those disembodied humans
who are held to earth through their own misdeeds, passions,
crime", etc., while on earth, who suck out the vitality of
negative human beings. These are known as Vampires.
! The word ''animal'' here means human beings. This is
proven by the fact that the author says: "Both corporal and
spiritu~l LIK!t ourselves."
18 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYS'rERY. 19
receiving sahration and damnation t. In the opinion of the
Father of Ameno, those bein~ts endowed with sense and rea-
son, thoroughly distinct from angels and demons, pure spir-
its, are. none other than the Fauns, Sylvans and Satyrs of
paganism; continued by our Sylphs, Elfs and Goblins; and
thus is connected anew THR LINK OF BELIEF. On thislscore
alone, not to mention theinterest of details, this book has a
charm for the attention of the earnest student.
t As explained in the Introduction to this work, and as is
still more fully explained in the book "Irreconcilable
Gnomes,'' these beings can become immortal only through
the intercession of a human being already immortal.
Man can be saved through the Christ. That is, FINDING
THE Christ WITHIN HIMSELF. These Elementals, being of
only one of the elements, can naturally not harmonize the
other elements, and, therefore, the only way to immortality
for them is through the human being who is already immor-
tal. Thus is mali saved through the Christ and the Elemen-
tal through Man, It is one vast connecting link between
the lowest creature and God.
-·
20 TI-IH DIYIXE l\IYS'rERY.
15he Divine Mystet'Y·
c:l
1. The tlrst author to invent the word Demoniality was no
doubt John Caramuel, in his "Fundamental Theology." Before
him there is no one who is known to have distinguished that
crime from Beastality. All theological moralists, following in
the train of St. Thomas, include, under the specific beastiality,
"every kind of carnal intercourse with anything whatever of a
ditTerent species." Such are the words used by St. Thomas.
Cajetanus, for instance, in his commentary on that question,
classes intercourse with the Demon under the description of
beastiality; so does Sylvester, "De Luxuria," Bocancia, "De
Matrimonio."
2. However, it is clear that in the above passage St. Thomas
did not at all allude to intercourse with the Demon. As shall be
demonstrated further on, that intercourse cannot be included in
the very particular specks of beastiality; and in order to make
that sentenc;: of the holy doctor tally with truth, it must
be admitted that whw saying of the natural sin, "that commit-
ted through the intercourse with a thing of different species,
takes the name of beastiality." St. Thomas, by a thing of dif-
ferent sp.::ci~s. means a living animal of another species than
man; for he could not here use the word Ibis in the most gen-
eral ~ensc, to mean indiscriminately an animate or inanimate
bdng. In fact, if a man ~l~ot:!d fo: nicate OII/I r,Idm:cre houan
22 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
he would have to do with a thing of a species quite different
from his own; similarly si cadaveri beastiali copularetur; and
yet, fa/is coitus would not be beastiality, but pollution. What,
therefore, St. Thomas intended here to specify with preciseness
is carnal intercourse with a living thing of a species different
from that of man, that is to say, with a beast, and he never in
the least thought of intercourse with the Demon.
The subject of beastiality is not a pleasant one, and, since it
has no bearing upon the subject in hand at the present time, we
will not consider it further. However, it had to be considered
this much in order to draw the distinction.
3. Intercourse with the Demon, whether Incubi or Succubi,
(which is, properly speaking, as understood by the holy Fath-
ers, Demoniality,) differs in kind from beastiality, and does not
in connection with it form one very particular species, as Caje-
tanus wrongly gives it; for, whatever may have been said to the
contrary, some ancients, and later Caramuel in his "Fundamen-
tal Theology," unnatural sins differ from each other most dis-
tinctly.
Fornication and Sodomy, in most instances, come directly
under the head of beastiality. He who is guilty of Sodomy,
Onanism and Human v;rpirism cannot become immortal. In
fact, these sins will prevent immortality in the human being.
On the other hand, Demoniality will bring about immortality
to the Elemental. This is to be understood as marriage with the
Elemental. Demoniality, as such, has no existence to-day. In
fact, it never had, for intercourse with the Elementals is not
Demoniality.
4. In sins against nature, the natural semination (which can
not be regularly followed by generation) is a genus; but the
gbject of such semination is the difference which marks the
species under the genus. Thus, whether semination takes place
on the ground, or on an inanimate body. it is pollution, and can
lead only to degeneration and eternal death.
5. It is a trite doctrine with Moralists, established by the
Council of Trent, session 14, and admitted by theologians that ·
THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
I \ ; .
'I'HE DIVI:Nrt MYSTERY. 25
in confession it suffices to state the circumstances which alter
the species of sin. If, therefore, Demoniality and Beastiality
b~Ionged to the same very particular sp~cies, it would b:! enough
that, each time he has had intercourse with the Demon, the pen-
itent should say to his confessor, "I have been guilty of the sin
of beastiality." But this is not so; therdore, those two sins do
not belong to the same very particular species.
Churchmen and scientists may deny that man can
come into personal intercourse with the Elt!mentals,
and to prove this point it is only necessary to quote:
6. St. ft-:1!_stin, who, speaking of carnal intercourse between
men and the demon, expresses himsdf as follows, book 15,
chapter 23rd of "The City of God:" "It i3 widely credited, and
such belief is confirmed by the direct or indirect testiony of
thoroughly trustwOJihy people, that Sylvans ;md Fauns, com-
monly called Incubi, haw frequently molested women, sought
and obtained from them coition. There are even Demons,
whom the Gauls called lJuces or Elfs, who very regulary in-
dulge in those unclean practict!s; the fact is tt!stilied by so many
and such weighty authorities that it were imprudent to doubt
it."
The student will note that it is plainly stated that the Demon
was none other than the Sylvans and Fauns, known later as
Duces and Elfs. These are none other than the Elementals.
However, the statement made throughout these ktters of carnal
intercourse, must not he taken too literally, for, though it is
true that the Elementals seek true marriage with the human
family in order to obtain the boon of immo1iality, it is not true
that they seek the human for the mere satisfaction of what
\\Ould be, to the human, bodily pleasure. The fact is the con-
trary to this.
THE GREAT LAW.
The Student must bear in mind continually that the
holy Father~, and even early Philosophers, mixed up
the Demons (Elementas) with the Vampires (earth-
bound disembodied Spirits or Souls.)
•
26 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
.....
'!'HE, DIVINE MYS'l'ERV.
..
It is true that those spirits which have left the body
of 'clay, but which are earth-bound on account of
crimes, passions, etc., do seek carnal intercourse with
the embodied men and women, but this isonly for the
sake of vampirism. In other words, in order to sap
the vitality from humans in order that they may be
held near the earth. Such disembodied souls may well
be classed as Demons, for they are demons or devils
in the true sense. The fact is, the word "fiends" would
do greater justice to them. The holy Fathers con-
founded these Vampires with the Elementals. The
Elemental does not seek intercourse with humanity in
order to satisfy lust or passion, but only so that he or
she may become immortal. I hope this matter is plain
to the student, and shall now proceed with the work
in hand.
27
7. If. the authors be asked how it came to pass that the De- v·
mon, who has no body, can have carnal intercourse with man
or woman, they unanimously answer that the Demon assumes
the corpse of another human being, male or female, as the case
may be, or that, from the mixture of materials, he shapes for
himself a body endowed with motion, and by means of this he
is united with the human being.
Here we have the mystery solved. But here again the au-
thors confound the Elementals with Vampires. No. 7 refers
exclusively to such earth-bound souls as before referred to, for
the Elemental never takes on a body, and cannot become visible
to the human unless that human makes for them the proper sur-
roundings, and even then it is a hard matter. These demons
referred to are not Elementals, but disembodied souls who are
earth-bound through passions, crimes, etc.
8. We read likewiseof numerous women incited to intercourse
by the Incubus Demon, and who, though reluctant at first to
yield to him, are soon moved by his entreaties, tears and en-
dearments; he is a desperate lover and must not be denied. And
although this comes sometimes of the craft of some Wizard who
avails himself of the agency of the Demon1 yet the Demon not
28 THE DIYIXE MYSTERY..
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 29
infrequently acts on his own account.
This again is not an Elemental or Demon, but a disembodied
Soul or Vampire. The Elemental never work in this manner,
and never seek the human in this way.
9. Now, it is undoubted by theologians and philosophersthat
intercourse between mankind and the Demon sometimes gives
birth to human beings; that is how is to be born the Antichrist,
according to some doctors, such as Bellarmin, Suarez, Maluen-
da, etc. They further observe that, from a natural cause, the
children thus begotten by Incubi are tall, very hardy, very proud
and wicked. Thus writes Maluenda; as for the ~ause, he gives
it from Vallesius, Archphysician in Reggio.
This now does refer to the Elementals, for there can be no is-
sue from the intercourse between the human and disembodied
Soul or Vampire. The Fathers admit that these children may
be powerful, but as this is not in accord with their belief, they
naturally claim that such children will be very wicked. This is
really not true. In fact, absolutely the contrary is true. Why?
Because the Elementals have no gross material in their b.!ings,
therefore absolutely no lust. They are simply one pure element.
Consequently the issue between them and a human must be
very rare, very pure, since all the carnal desires that such a child
can have must come altogether from the mother. Consequent-
ly, only Christs or Saviours can be born through such inter-
course, and, as the male Eletnentals are very few, such births
happen but ~eldom. Let us see the list as given by the holy
Father:
10. Maluenda shows from the testimony of various authors,
mo~tly classical, that such associations gave birth to: Romulus
Remus, according to Livy and Plutarch; Servius-Tullius, the
sixth king of Rome, according to Dyonisius of Halicarnassus
and Pliny the Elder; Plato the Philosopher, according to Dio-
genes Laettius and Saint Hieronymus; Alexander the Great, ac-
cording to Plutarch and Quintus-Cmiius; Seleucus, king of
Syria, according to J ustinus and Appianus; Scipio Africanus the
Elder, according to Livy; the Emperor Cesar Augustus, accord-
ing to Suetonius; Aristomenes the Messenian, an illustrious
30 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
•
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 31
Greek commander, according to Strabo and Pausanias; as also
Merlin or Melchin, the Englishman, born from an Incubus and
a nun, the daughter of Charlemagne; and, lastly, as shown by
the writings of Cochloeus, quoted by Maluenda, that damned
Heresiarchycleped Martin Luther.
Certainly a strong list, but, none the less, one that can be
mainly true; and now, my Christian friends, if Martin Luther
was the offspring of a Virgin and an Elemental, why not the
Christ? The student must bear in mind the one Great Law:
namely, that the human mind cannot imagine anything which
has no foundation in fact. The Great Law of Hermes is: "As
above so below; as below so above." "As in the Material so in
the Spiritual." Therefore, that which the mind of man can con-
ceive, can also be brought into material manifestation.
I do not say that Martin Luther was thus born, but
I say this, and I challenge the Christian world, Catho-
lic or Protestant, to successfully contradict me, that.
Christ was thus born. If he were not, then the Doc-
trine of the Immaculate Conception is a lie, and if this
is a lie, then the very foundation of religion, both
Protestant and Catholic, is a lie and a farce.
11. Although it is generally admitted as a fact that those who
are thus begotten excel other men, yet such superiority is not
alwa·ys shown by their vices, but sometimes by their virtues and
even their morals. Scipio Africanus, for instance, C:esar Au-
gustus and Plato the Philosopher, as is recorded of each of them
respectively by Livy, Suetonius and Diogenes Laertius, had ex-
cellent morals. Whence may be inferred that, if other individ-
uals begotten in the same way have been downright villians, it
was not owing to their being born of an Incubi, but to their
having, of their own free will, chosen to be such.
Surely this is a confession for a Church Father to make, and
this proves just exactly what I have already proven. If these
great men were born, then it is an easy matter for a Christ or a
Buddha to have been thus born.
12. We also read in the Testament, Genesis, 6, verse 4, that
32 THE DIYIXE :\IYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYS'I'ERY.
giants were born when the sonsof G::d came in unto the daught- ·
ers of men; that is the very letter of the sacred text. Now,
these giants were men of !(reat stature, says Baruch, Chapter 3,
verse 26, and far superior to other men. Not only were they
distinguished by their hugh size, but also by their physical pow-
er. Some contend that by sons of God are meant the sons of
Seth, and by daughters of men the daughters of Cain, b~cause
the former practiced piety, r~ligion and every other virtue,
whilst the descendents of Cain were quite the reverse; but, with
all due reverence to Chrysostom, Cyrillus, Hilarius, and others,
who were of that opinion, it· must be conceded that it clashes
with the obvious meaning of the text. Scripture says, in fact,
that of the conjunction of the above mentioned were born men
of hugi(bodily size; consequently, those giants were not previ-
ously in existence, and if their birth was the result of that con-
junction, it cannot be ascribed to the intercourse of the sons of
Seth with the daughters of Cain, who being of ordinary stat-
ure, could but pro::reate children of ordinary stature. There-
fore, if the intercourse in question gave birth to beings of hugbw i.
stature, the reason is that it was not the common connection
between man and woman. but the performance of the Incubi
Demons, who, from their nature, may very well b~ styled Sons
of God. Such is the opinion of the Platonist Philosophers and
of Franci~ Georges, the Venetian; nor is it discrepant with that
of Josephus the Historian, Philo the Jew, St. Justinus the Mar-
tyr, Clement of Alexandria, and Tertullian, who look upon In-
cubi as corporal Angels who have allowed thems~lves to fall
ilto the sin of lewdness with women. Indeed, as shall be shown
hereafter, though seemingly distinct, these two opinions are but
one and the same.
This really refer to the Elementals. It is not true
that these Elementals allowed themselves to fall into
lewdness. It is that they desired to become lmmmial
that they undertook these intercourses, and there is
not a single instance in history to prove fhat an Ele-
mental had intercourse more than once with a woman.
Were lewdness the object then this would not be true.
34 THE DIVIXE MYSTI~RY.
....
THE DIVINE MYS'I'ERY. 35
13. If these incubi, in conformity with the general belief,
have begotten Giants by means of the Vita taken from man, it
is impossible, as aforesaid, that of that Vita should have been
born any but men of approximately the same size as he from
whom it came; for it would be in vain for the Demon, when
acting the part of a Succubus, to draw from man an unwonted
qualific of the Vita liquor in order to procreate therefrom chil-
dren of higher stature. Quality has nothing to do here, since
all depends, as has been said, upon the vitality of the Vita, not
its quality. We are, therefore, bound to infer that Giants are
born of another sperm than man's, and that, consequently, the
Incubus, for the purpose of generation, uses Vita which is not
man's.
14. Subject to comction from our Holy Mother Church, and
as a mere expression of opinion, I say that the Incubus when
having intercourse, begets the human fetus from his own Vita.
1.1 this the Father is correct. However, it is a fact that the
Vampires obtain their vitality through the human for this rea-
son, they use Sodomites, Onanits, and others of this ilk. It is
also for this reason that the human who practice:;; these things
gradually throws away his Soul and feeds these Vampires. Such
a human gradually destroys all chancesof Immortality, and this
is the sin that God will not forgive. It is not that He could not
forgive it, but it is because such threw their very Soul away un-
til there i:;; nothing left but the mere body, the shell. The Soul
has been absorbed by Vampires.
15. I premise, a~ an article of belief, that there are purely
spiritual creatures, not in any way partaking of corporal matter
as was ruled by the Council of Lateran, under the pontificate of
Innocent Ill. Such are the blessed Angels, and the Demons
condemned to everlasting tire. Some Doctors, it is true, have
profe:;;sed, subsequently even to this Council, that the spirituali-
ty of Angels and Demons is not an article of belief. Others
even have asserted that they are corporal, whence Bonaventure
Baron has drawn the conclusion that it is neither heretical nor
erroneous to ascribe to Angels or Demons a twofold substance,
corporal and spiritual. Yet the Council having formally de-
'
36 THE DIVINE MYSTERY,
THE DIVINE MVSTERV. 37
clared it to b.! an article of b~lief that God is the maker of all
tbini(S ·visible and invisible, spiritual and corporal, 1.1.!bo bas
mised from notbinl( t't'l'(V creature spiritual or corporal, Atrl(el-
ic or Terrestrial, I contend it is an article of belief that there are
certain merely spiritual creatures, and that such are Angels; not
all of them, but a certain number.
The student must bear in mind that here are really meant the
Angels, on the one hand, which are good and evil forces; Dev-
ils, on the other hand, which are bad. The word Demon does
not here signify the same thing that it did when used before.
Here it means the evil side.
16. It may seem strange, yet it must be admitted not to be
unlikely. If, in fact, theologians concur in establishing among
Angels a specific, and therefore essential, diversity so consider-
able that, according to St. Thomas, there are not two Angels of
the same species, but that each of them is a species by himself,
why not certain Angels be more pure spirit. of a consequently
very superior nature, and others corporal, therefore of a less
perfect nature, differing thus from each other in their corporal
or incorporal substance? This doctrine has the advantage of
solving the otherwise insoluble contradiction between two
(Ecumenical Councils, namely, the Seventh General Synod
and the above-mentioned Council of Lateran. For, during the
fifth sitting of the Synod, the second of Nicea, a book was in-
trodued written by John of Thessalonica against a pagan phil-
osopher, wherein occur the following propositions: "Respecting
Angels, Archangels and their powers, to which I adjoin our own
Souls, the Catholic Church is really of opinion that they are
intelligences, but not entirdy bodiless and senseless, as you Gen-
tiles aver. She, on the contrary, ascribes to them a subtile
body, aerial or igneous, according to.what is written: He makes
the spirits His Angels, and the burning tire His Minister." And,
further on, "Although not corporal in the same way as our-
selves, made of the four elements, yet it is impossible to say that
Angels, Demons and Souls are incorporal, for they have been
seen many a time, invested with their own bodies, by those
whose eyes the Lord has opened." And after that book had
THE DIVINE :MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
been read through before all the Fathers in Council assembled,
Tharasius, the Patriarch of Constantinople, submitted it to the
approval of the Council, with these words: "The Father show~
eth that Angels should be pictured, since their form can be de-
tined, and they have been seen in the shape of men." Without
a dissent the Synod answered: "Yes, my Lord."
This explains itself, except that it is remarkable in that the
composition of both man and the Elementals was understood.
"Made in the same way as ourselves, made of !be four ele-
ments." It is in this that man differs from the Elemental. Man
is made of the four elements, and, consequently, is both mortal
and Immortal. The Fire, or element of Fire, gives him his soul,
his power to .love and his Immortality. The Elementals are
only of 4>nc element, and, consequently, unless they can come
into natural connection with a human being cannot be Immor-
tal.
They have been seen by "those whose eyes the Lord had
opened." This also is true. When man, through certain Soul
development, has reached a state where the Spiritual Sight is
opened, he can see, not only the Angels, which are distinct from
the Elementals, but he can see the Elementals also. This is no
idle dream, as the writer knows many who can and do hold
daily intercourse with these Elementals, and knows of one Ini-
tiate who has been instrumental in bringing about the Immor-
tality of more than one hundred Elementals of Fire.
The Angels must not be confounded with the Elementals, for
all Angels are eternal in that they are the messengers of God.
Such Angels may and do appear to men, but they have no in-
tercourse with men, since there is no need of it, and, therefore,
no desire. Desire is the law that rules in all things.
17. I premise that the word Angel applies not indeed to the
kind, but to the oftice. The Holy Fathers are agreed thereupon.
(St. Ambrose, on the "Epistle to the Hebrews;" St. Austin,
"City of God;" St. Gregory, "Homily 34 on Scripture," St.
Isidorus, "Supreme Goodness.") An Angel, very truly says
St. Ambrose, is thus styled, not because he is a spirit, but on
account of his oftlce. Nuntius in Latin, that is to say, Messm-
40 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
-
'THE DIVINE MVSTERV. 41
p;er. It follows that whoever is entrusted by God with a mis- /
sion, be he spirit or man, may be called an Angel, and is thus
called in the Holy Scriptures, where the following words are
applied to Priests, Preachers and Doctors, who, as Messengers
of God, explain to men the Divine Will. (Malachi, chapter 2;
v. 7.) "The Priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they
should seek the law at his mouth, for he is the Angel of the
Lord of Hosts." The same prophet, chapter 3; v. 1, bestows
the name of Angel on St. John the Baptist, when saying: "Be-
hold, I will send my Angel, and he shall prepare the way before
me." That this prophecy literally applies to St. John the Bar-
tist is testified by our Lord Jesus Christ in the Gosple accord-
ing to St. Matthew, chapter 11; v. 10. Still more: "God him-
self is called an Angel, because he has been sent by His Father
to herald the law of mercy. To witness, the prophecy of lsiah,
chapter 9; v. 6, according to the Septuagint, "He shall be called
an Angel of Wonderful Counsel." And more plainly still in
Malachi, chapter 3; v. 1: "The Lord whom you seek shall sud-
denly come to his temple, even the Angel of the covenant whom
ye delight in," a prophecy which literally applies to our Lord
Jesus Christ. There is, consequently, nothing absurd in the
contention that some Angels are corporal, since men, who as-
suredly have a body, are called Angels.
18. I premise that Holy Scripture and ecclesiastical tradition
do not teach us anything beyond what is required for the sal-
vation of the soul, namely, Faith, Hope and Charity. Conse-
quently. from a thing not long being stated, either by Scripture
or tradition, it must not be infemd that that thing is not in ex-
istence. For instance, Faith teacl:es us that God, by His Word
made things visible and invisible, and also that through the
merits of our Lord Jesus Christ, grace and glory are conferred
on every rational creature. Now, that there is another world
than the one we live in, and that it be peopled by men not born
of Adam, but made by God in some other way, as is implied
by those who believe the lunar globe to be inhabited; or, fur-
ther, that in the very world we dwell in, there be other rational
creatur..!s besides man and the Angelic Spirits, creatures general-
_.--
·
42 THE DIVINE MYStERY.'
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 43
ly invisible to us, and whose being is disclosed but accidently,
through the instrumentality of their own power. All that has,
nothing to do with Faith, and the knowledge or ignorance
thereof is no more necessary to the salvation of man than
knowing the number or nature of all physical things.
19. I premise that neither philosophy nor theology is repug-
nant to the possible existence of rational creatures having spiiit
and body and distinct from man. Such repugnance could be
supported only on God, and that is inadmisable, since He is
all-mighty, or on the thing to be made, and that likewise can
not be supported, for, as there are purely spiritual creatures,
such as Angels, or merely material, such as the world, or lastly,
semi-spiritual and semi-corporal, or an earthly and gross cor-
poreity' such as man, so there may 11Jell be in existence a crea-
ture eudowed with a rational spirit and a corporeity less gros~
and more subtile !ban man's.
20. Question: Should such creatures be styled rational ani-
mals? And, if so, in what do they differ from man, with whom
they would have that definition in common?
21. Yes, they would be rational animals, provided with senses
and organs even as man. They would, however, differ from
man not only in the more subtile nature, but also in the matter
of their bodies. In fact, as shown by Scripture, man has been
made from the grossest of all elements, namely clay, a gross
mixture of water and ealih. But those creatures would be made
from the most subtile part of all element~·, or of one or other of
them.
Thus some would proceed from ealih, others from water, or
air, or fire; and in order that they should not be defined in the
same terms as man, to the definition of the lattershould be add-
ed the mention of the gross materiality of his body, wherein he
would differ from said animals.
22. Question: At what period would those animals have
be!n originated, and where from? From ea1ih, like the bc:asts,
or from water, like quadrupeds, birds, etc.? Or. on the con-
trary, would they have been made, like man, by our Lord
God?
THE DIVINE MYSTERY.:
...
THE DIVI~E MYSTERY. 45
23. Answer: It is an article of belief, expressly laid down by
the Council of Lateran. that whatever is in fact and at present,
was made in the origin of the world. By His all-mighty virtue,
God, from the beginning of time, raised together from nothing
both orders of creatures, spiritual and corporal. Now, those
animals also would b~ included in the generality of creatures.
As to their formation, it might be said that God Himself,
through the medium of Angels, made their body as He did
man's,to which an Immortal spirit u:·as to be united. That body
being of a nobler nature than that of other animals, it was meet
that it should be united to an incorporal and highly noble spir-
it.
24. Question: Would those animals descend from one indi-
vidual, as all men descended from Adam; or, on the contrary,
would many have been made at the same time, a~ was the case
for the other living things issued from earth and water, wherein
were males and females for the preservation of the kind by gen-
eration? Would there be amongst them a distinction between
the sexes? Would they be subject to birth and death, to senses,
passions, want of food, power of growth? If so, what their
nutrition? Would they lead a social life, as men do? By what
taws ruled? Would they build up cities for their dwellings, cul-
tivate the a1is and sciences, hold prope1iy, and wage war be-
tween themselves, as men are wont to do?
25. It may be that all descend from one individual, as man
descended from Adam. It may be, also, that a number of males
and females were made initially, who preserved their kind by
generation. We will fUtiher a,dmit that they were born and die;
that they are divided into males and females, and are moved by
senses and passions, as men are; that they feed and grow ac-
cording to the size of their body. Their food, however, instead
of being gross, like that required by the human body, must be
delicate and vapory, emanating through spirituous effluvia from
whatever in the physical world abounds with highly volatile
corpuscles, such as the flavor of meats, the fume of wine, the
fragrancy of fruit, tlowers, aromatics, which evolve an abund-
ance of those effluvia until all their subtile and volatile pa1is
!
46 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 47
have completely evaporated. To their being able to lead a so-
cial life, with distinctions of rank and precedence; to their culti-
vating the arts and sciences, exercising functions, maintaining
armies, building up cities, doing, in short, whatever is requisite
for their preservation, I have in the main no objection.
I would refer the student to the book "The Irreconcilable
Gnome" for the reason -wl!l' there are Elementals, or why the
Elementals are not human in every sense as we are. I would,
also, refer the student to the private work "The M~s_kries of
Osiris" for the explanation of the first "fall" of man.
What the Father has to say regarding the food of the Ele-
mentals, is entirely and absolutely correct. This explains why,
in the process of Soul Development, the Neophyte uses incense.
Using incense has a triple meaning. It helps the Neophyte to
open the Soul sight; it attracts the Elementals because it proves
to them that there is one who desires their companionship, and
it is also a food for them.
The Father here further clears the question as to the differ-
ence between the Elementals and the Vampires, or disembodied
souls.
The Elementals do not live upon the vitality of hu-
manity, but upon such food as before stated. The
Vampires live entirely upon human vitality.
A MYSTERY.
It is a well known fact that seldom is a drunkard
killed while in a drunken state. It does not matter
into how dangerous a place he may go, he usually
comes out safe. This is the reason: · When a man is
drunk he is in an entirely negative state. While in
this state, more especially if stupefied, these disembod-
ied souls, who are ea1th-bound, can easily absorb the
vitality they require in order to live. This they do,
and it is, therefore, to their great benefit to see that
such a slave is not killed, for were he or · she killed
their food would at once cease, and it would mean
their death. It is, therefore, their desire that such neg-
atives-Vampire slaves-shall not come to any harm,
48 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
and they watch over them carefully.
Sooner or later, they have' accomplished their desire
and no longer need such a negative. The result isthat
they no longer protect such drunkard, and death
comes while he is in some drunken state, and the ver-
dict is "heaii failure."
This is also the reason why it is so hard to reform
a drunkard. He may stop for months at a time, but
it is only by exerting his will that he can keep away
from drink. There is always that "something" urg-
ing him to drink, until this desire b~comes so power-
ful that he will staii drinking again.
The greater paii of Mediumship also comes under
the same heading. The vast majority of mediums are
not honest, neither are they living a pure life. These
disembodied Vampires come into touch with them be-
cause ther are Negatives. They give them a certain
amount of knowledge, in exchange for which they re-
ceive enough vitality to lin. Gradually the medium
becomes so absolutely sucked dry of vitality that there
is a physical and mental breakdown.
I naturally do not refer to that pure, conscious me-
diumship where the medium is both pure, developed
and honest, but to that universal, commercial medi-
umship abounding on every hand. .
49
26. Question: What would their figure be-human or other-
wise?
27. As regards their figure, we 'neither can or should be af-
firmative, since it escapes our senses, being too delicate for our
sight or touch. That we must leave to themselves, and to such
as have the privilege of intuitive acquaintance with immaterial
sub3tance. But, so far as probability go~s. I say that their fig-
ure tallies with the human body, save some distinctive peculiar-
ity, should the very tenuity of their bodies not be deemed suf-
ficient. I am kd to that consideration that of all the works of
Goj, the human frame is the most perfect, and that whilst all
other animals stoop to the ground, because their soul is mOiial,
~
. so THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
God, as Ovid, the poet, says, in his "Metamorphoses,"
"Gave man an erect figure, bidding him behold
the heavens,
And raise his face towards the stars,"
51
man's soul having been made Immortal for the heavenly bode.
Considering that the animals we are speaking of would be gift-
ed with a spirit immaterial, rational and Immortal, capable,
therefore, of beatitude and damnation, it is proper to admit that
the body to which that spirit is united may be like unto the
most uoble animal (man) frame, that is to say, .to the human
frame. Whence it follows that in the diverse parts of that body
there must be an essential order; that the foot, for instance, can
not be an appendage to the head, nor the hand to the belly, but
that each organ is in its right place, according to the functions
it has to perform. As to the constitutive parts of these organs,
it is, in my opinion, necessary that there should be some more
or less strong, ·others more or less slender, in order to meet the
requirements of the organic working. Nor can this be fairly
objected to on the ground of the slenderness of the bodiesthem-
selves; for the strength or thickness of the organic parts alluded
to would not be al:tsolute, l:tut merely in comparison with the
more slender ones. That, moreover, may l:te observed in all
natural fluids, such as wine, oil, milk, etc., however homogen-
eous and similar to each other their component parts may look,
yet they are not so, for some are clayish, others aqueous. There
are fixed salts, volatile salts, all of which are made obvious l:ty
a chemical analysis. So it would l:te in our case, for, supposing
the bodies of those animals to l:te as subtile and slender as the
natural fluids, air, water, etc., there would nevertheless be dis-
cr~pancies in the quality of theirconstitutive parts,some of which
would be strong when compared with others more slender, al-
though the whole body which they compose might be called
slender.
The Elementals are formed like the human form, except that
their l:todies are far mor~ perfect. They are composed of only
the pure elements. no Kross material entering their make-up,
consequently they can be as perfect as they wish. On the oth-
52 THE DIYIXH l\IYSTHRY.
..
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. f3
er hand, there b~ing no mat.!rial or gross matter in their make-
up, they may appear in different forms in different people.
It is with pleasure that \VC here Rive the picture of one of the
Elementals of Fire, the Salamandcrinc. This is from that beau-
tiful work, ''The Salamandcrine," which we hop~ to issue at an
early date.
The student should c:::rdully nok the stat.:m.:nt: "That we
must leave to themselves, and to such as have the privilege of
intuitive acquaintance with immaterial sub~tances." This, from
a holy Fathu, is of vast impmiancc. It is rcaily through the
Intuitive faculty that on..: can tirst b;,;comc acquainted with the
Elemcntals. This can come oniy through Soul development.
28. Qu;.;:;tion: Would th~s.: animals b.: Slib].cct to discaxs,
infirmiti.:~:, sL:p, food, drink, de.?
54 THH DIVINH M\'STI<:RY.
THE DIVINE MYSTJtRY. ss
29. Their bodies, though subtile, being material, they would,
of course, be liable to decay. They might, therefore, sufferfrom
adverse agencies, and consequently, be diseased; that is, their
organs might not perform, or painfully and imperfectly perform
the office assigned to them, for therein consist all diseases what-
ever with certain animals, as has been distinctly explained by
the illustrious Michael Ettmullat, "Physiology," C. V. thesis I.
In sooth, their bodies being less gross than the human frame,
comprising less elements mixed together, they would not so
easily suffer from adverse influences, and would, therefor!!, re
less liable to disease than man. Their life would also exceed
his, for the more perfect an animal, as a species, the longer i:s
days. Thus mankind whose existence extends beyond that of
other animals. For I do not believe in the centenary existence
of crows, stags, ravens, and the like, of which Pliny tells his
customary stories; and although his dreams have been re-echoed
by others without previous inquiry, it is no less clear that before
writing thus, not one has faithfully noted the birth or death of
those animals. They have been content with taking up the
strange fable, as has been the" case with the Phenix, whose lon-
gevity is discarded as a story by Tacitus, "Annals," B. 6. It
were, therefore, to be infened that the animals we are speaking
of would live longer still than man, for, as shall be said hereaf-
ter, they would be more noble than he. Consequently, also,
would be subject to the other bodily affections, and require rest
and food. Now, as rational beings, amenable to discipline, they
might also continue ignorant, if their minds did not receivt! the
culture of study and instruction, and some amongst them would
be more or less versed in science, more or less clevt!r, according
as their intelligence had been more or less trained. However,
generally speaking, and considering the whole of the species,
they would be more learned than men, not from the subtility of
their bodies, but perhaps because of the greater activity of their
minds or the longer space of their life, which would enable
them to learn more things than men. Such are, indeed, the
motives assigned by St. Austin ("lJivin. lJemon." Ch. 3, and
''Spirit and Soul," Ch. 37), to the prescience of the future in
56 'l'ltH DIVINB :MVSTBRV.
..
~l!E DIVINE MYS'tERV. 57
Demons. They might indeed suffer from natural agencies, but
they could hardly be killed, on account of the speed with which
they can escape from danger.
In the main, the holy Father is right in his conclusions. How-
ever, these Elementals do not suffer from diseases, for the rea-
son that a single Element cannot suffer. Before man fell into
the material form, he felt neither sorrow or joy. Consequently
he desired to know. Through this desire he fell into the ma-
terial form with all its SOJTows and joys. The Elemental does
not suffer from disease. Its death is a natural death from old
age, as should be the death of man. However, immediately
that an Element~! has been married with the human, it will
know both sorrow and joy, and be subject to nearly all the sor-
rows and pains of the human. This is the Law.
30. Would these animals be born in original sin, and have
been redeemed by the Lord Christ? Would the grace have
been conferred upon them, and through what sacrament? Un-
der what law would they live, and would they be capable of
beatitude and damnation?
31. It is an article of belief that Christ has merited grace and
glory for all rational creatures without exc!!ption. It is also an
article of belief that glory is not conferred on a rational creature
until such creature has been previously endowed with grace,
which is the disposition of glory. According to a like article,
glory is conferred by merits. Now, these merits are grounded
on the perfect observance of the commands of God, which is
accomplished through grace. The above questions are thus
solved. Whether those creatures did or did not sin originally
is uncertain. It is clear, however, that if their· first parent had
sinned as Adam sinned, his descent would be born in original
sin, as men are born. And, as God never leaves a rational
creature without a remedy, so long as it treads the way, if these
creatures were infected with original or actual sin, God would
have provided them with a remedy; but whether it is the case,
and of what kind is the remedy, is a secret between God and
them. Surely, if they had sacraments identical with or differ-
ent from those in use in' the human Church militantl for the
58 'ritE DIVINE MYSTERY.
'tl1E DIVINE MYS•tERV. 59
institution and efficacy thereof they would be indebted to the
merits of Jesus Christ, the Redeemer and Universal Atoner of
rational creatures. It would likewise b~ highly proper, nay
necessary, that they should live under some law given them by
God, and through the observance of which they might merit
beatitude. But what would be that law, whether merely na-
tural or written, Mosaic or Evangelical, or different from all
these and specially instituted by God, that we are ignorant of.
The author came near to the solution of the prob-
lem, and especially concerning the original sin.
The Elementals were not born in original sin, for if
they had been then they would be mortal like man.
This in itself is the strong proof that they were not
born in original sin. Why they are Elementals in-
stead of men is clearly given in "The hTeconcilable
Gnome."
They cannot be redeemed through Christ, but must
be redeemed through the agency of man. Man must
be their redeemer. This has already been fully ex-
plained. The Laws of God as given to man cannot
affect them, nor the sacraments. Man alone, as al-
ready explained, must be their Savior. There is no
damnation for them. They must either become Im-
mortal through man or they die.
32. The only argument, and that a rather lame one, which
long meditations have suggested to me against the possibility of
such creatures, is that, if they really existed in the world, we
should find them mentioned somewhei·e by Philosophers, Holy
Scriptures, Ecclesiastical Tradition, or the Holy Fathers. Such
not being the case, their utter impossibility should be inferred.
33. But that argument which, in fact, calls in question their
existence rather than their possibility, is easily disposed of by
our premises, for no argument can stand in virtue of a nega-
tive authority. Besides, it is not correct to assert that neither the
Philosophers, nor the Scriptures, nor the Fathers have handed
down any notion of them. Plato, as is reported by AJ:uleius,
"The Demon of Socratesj': and Plutarchl "Isis and Osiri~/' d~·
-
60 THE DI\'I:NI~ MYSTERY.
THE DIYINE MYSTI~RY. 61
dared that Demons were b~ings of animal kind, passive souls,
rational intelligences, aerial bodies, everlasting; and they gave
them the name of Demons, which of it~lf is nowise otlensive,
since it means
REPLETE WITH WISDOM.
So that when authors allude to the Devil (or Evil Angel) they
do not merely call him Demon, hut Cacodemon; and say like-
wise Eudemon, when speaking of a good Angel. Those crea-
tures are also mentioned in Scripture and ry the Fathers.
34. Now, that we have proved that those creatures are pos~i­
ble, let us go a step further, and sho·.v that th~y exist. Taking
for granted the truth of the recitals concerning the intercourse
of Incubi and Succubi with mortals, recitals so numerous that
it would look like impud~n::e to d~ny the fact, as is stated by
St. Austin, whose testimony is given, I argue: Where the pe-
culiar passion of the sense is found, there, also, of necessity, is
the sense itself; for, according to the principles of philosophy,
the peculiar passion flows from nature, that is to say, where the
acts and operations of the sense are found, there also is the
sense, operations and acts being but its external form. Now,
those Incubi and Succubi present acts, operations, peculiar pas-
sions, which spring from the senses. They are, therefore, en-
dowed with senses. But senses cannot exist without concomi-
tant composite organs, without a combinations of soul and
body. Incubi and Succubi have, therefore, soul and body, and,
consequently, are animals: but thd;; a::ts and op~rations are,
also, those of a rational soul. Their soul is, therefore, rational,
and thus, from tlr!'t to last, they are rational animals.
The student must read "Spirits" for "Soul." for if these Ele-
mentals had a soul they would he Immortal. They have body
and spirit, but the soul, the immortal part, can only come
through marriage with the human, or that which already is Im-
mortal.
35. The Evil Spirits, the incorporal Demons, which haw to
do with Black Magicians and Sorcerism, constrain them to dl-
mon worship, to tre abjuration of the Orthodox Faith, to the
commission of enchantments and foul crimes, as preliminary
62 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
'
'
THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
conditions to the infamous intercourse. Now, Incubi pretend to
nothing ofthe kind. These are, therefore, no evil spirits. Last-
ly, as written by Guaccius, at the mere utterance of the name of
Jesus or Mary, at the sign of the Cross, the approach of holy
relics or consecrated objects, at exor~isms, at adjurations or
priestly injunctions, the Evil Demon either shudders or takes to
flight, or is agitated and howls, as is daily seen with energumens
and is shown by numerous narratives of Gauccius cenceming
the nightly revels of Black !!\_gicians and unholy Mediums. • '
The Incubi, on the contrary, stand all those ordeals without
taking to flight or showing the least fear.
36. Now, if the evil Demons, subdued by our Lord Jesus
Christ, are stricken by fear by his name, the cross and the holy
things; if, on the other hand, the good Angels rejoice at these
same things without, however, inciting men to sin nor to give
offense to God, whilst the Incubi, without having any dread of
the holy things, provoke to intercourse, it is clear that they are
neither evil Demons nor good Angels. But it is also clear that
they are not men, thou![h endowed with reason. What, then,
are they? Supposing them to have reached the goal, and to be
pure spirits, they would be damned or blessed, for correct theol-
ogy does not admit of pure spirits on the way to salvation. If
damned, they would revere the name and the cross of Christ; if
biessed, they would not incite men to intercourse. They would,
therefore, be different from pure spirits, and thus have a body,
and be on the way to salvation.
37. As an other principal proof of our conclusion regarding the
existence of these animals, in other words, respecting the cor-
poreity of Incubi, is adduced by the testimony of St. Hierony-
mus in his "Life of-·St. Paul, the First Hermit." St. Anthony,
says he, set out on a journey to visit St. Paul. After traveling
several days he met a Centaur, of whom he inquired the her-
met's abode. Whereupon the Centaur, growling some uncouth
and scarcely intelligible answer, shew the way with his out-
'• stretched hand, and fled with the utmost speed into a wood.
The Holy Abbott kept on his way, and, in a dale, met a litre
man, almost a dwarf, with creeked hands, horned brow, and
64 TIU: DIVINE l\lYSTHRY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 65
his lower extremities ending with goats' feet. At the sight of
him, St. Anthony stood still, and, fearing the arts of the Devil,
comforted himself with a sign of the cross. But, far from run-
ning away, or even seeming frightened at it, the little fellow
respectfully approached the old man, and tendered him as a
peace offering dates for his journey. The blessed St. Anthony
then inquired who he was. "I am a mortal," replied he, "and
one of the inhabitants of the Wilderness,whom Gentility, under
its varied delusions, worships under the names of Fauns, Satyrs
and Incubi. I am on a mission from my flock. We request
thee to pray for us unto the common God, whom ye know to
have come for the salvation of the world, and whose praise is
sounded all over the earth." Rejoicing at the glory of Christ,
St. Anthony, turning his face towards Alexandria, and striking
the ground with his staff, cried out: "Woe be unto thee, thou
harlot city, who worshipest animals as Gods!" Such is the
narrative of St. Hieronymus, who expatiates at length on the
fact, explaining its import in a long discourse.
38. It were indeed rash to doubt the truth of the above reci-
tal, constantly referred to by the greatest of the Doctors of the
Holy Church, of St. Hieronymus, whose authority no Catholic
will ever deny. Let us, therefore, investigate the circumstances
thereof which must clearly confirm our opinion.
39. We must observe that if ever a saint was assailed by the
arts of the Demon, saw throw his infernal devices, and carried
off victories and trophies from the contest, that saint was St.
Anthony, as is shown by his life, written by St. Athanasius.
Now, since in that little man St. Anthony did not recognize a
devil but an animal, saying, "Woe unto thee, thou harlot city,
who worshipest animals as Gods!" it is clear that it was no
devil or pure spirit ejected from heaven and damned, but some
kind of an animal. Still more. St. Anthony, when instructing
his friars and cautioning: them against the assaults of the De-
mon, said to them. as related in the Roman Brevi•JY "Festival
of St. Anthony, Abbot," B. 1.) "Believe me, my ~rethren, Sa·
tan dreads the vigils of pious men,their prayers, fasts,volunhry
poverty, compassion and humility; but, above all, he d1ead;
66 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVIXE MYSTERY.
their ~uming love of our Lord Christ, at the mere sigi1 of whose
most Holy Cross he tlies disarted." As the little man, against
whom St. Anthony guarded himself with a sign of the cross,
neither took fright nor fled, hut approached the Saint confident-
ly and humNy, offering him some dates, it is a sure sign that
he was no Devil.
40. We must observe that the little man said "I am a mor-
tal." whence it follows that he was an animal suhject to death,
and, consequently, called into lleing through generation. For
an immeterial spirit is immortal, b~cause simple, and, conse-
quently, is not called in:o h:ing through generation from pre-
existent matter, but through creation, and, consequently, also,
cannot lose it through the corruption called death. Its existence
can only come to an end through annihilation. The:·efore, when
saying he was mortal. he professed himself an animal.
41. We must observe that he said he knew that the common
God had suffered in human tlesh. Those words show him to
have been a rational animal, for hrutes know nothing hut what
is sensible and present, and can, therefore, have no knowledge
of God. If that little man said that he and his fellows \\'ere
aware of God having suffered in human tlesh, it shows that, by
means of some revelation. he had acquired the notion of God
as we have ourselves the revealed faith. That God assumed
human flesh. and suffered in it, is the essence of the two pJinci·
pal articles of our Faith- the existence of God, one and three-
fold; His lncamation, Passion, and Resurrection. All that
shows, as I said, that it was a rational animal, capable of the
knowledge of God through revelation, like our~lves. and en-
dowed with a rational and, consequently. immmial soul.
42. We must observe that, in the name of hi~ whole tlock.
whose delegate he professed to be, he besou~ht St. Anthony to
pray for them to the common God. \\'hereupon I infer that
that little man wa~ capable of beatitude and damnation, :IIlli
that he was not in !t'nniw, but in 1:i,1.
Here is the proof of one thin)!' whkh I have alwa~·~ contend·
ed for. .If these Elementals could l'ecome Immortal throuKh
their own effo1is, it would not l'e necessary for them to apreal
68 THE DIVI~E MYSTERY.
~l:lE DIVINE MYSTERY. 69
to the human beings for such prayer. They would then go
direct to the Godhead for their salvation, or Regeneration. This
is not possible. Consequently there is but one way. They
must appeal to mankind, and man must help them to Immor-
tality. It is the only way for them.
43. We must observe that the little man professed to be del-
egated by others of his kind, when saying, "I am on a mission
from my flock," words from which many inferences may be
deduced. One is, that the little man was not alone of his kind,
an exceptional and solitary monster, but that there were many
of the same species, since congregating they made up a flock,
and that he came in the name of all; which could not have
been, had not the will of the many centered in him. Another
is, that those animals held a social life, since one of them was
sent in the name of the many. Another is, that, although liv-
ing in the Wilderness, it is not assigned to them as a permanent
abode; for St. Anthony having never previously been in that
desert, which was far distant from his hermitage, they could not
have known whom he was, nor what his degree of sanctity. It
was, therefore, necessary that they should become acquainted
with him elsewhere, and, consequently, that they should have
travelled beyond that Wilderness.
44. We must observe that the little man said he was one of
those whom "the Gentiles, blinded by error, called Fauns, Sa-
tyrs and Incubi;" and by these words is shown the truth of our
principal proposition, that Incubi are rational animals, capable
of beatitude and damnation.
45. The apparation of such little men is of frequent occur-
rence in metalic mines, as is written by Gregorius Agsicola, in
his book "De Animal-Subterran." They appear to the miners
clothed like themselves, play and caper together, laugh and tit-
ter, and throw stones at them for the sake of amusement. A
sign, says the above named author, of excellent success, and of
the finding of some branch or body of a mint'ral tree.
This is true, but only one kind of Elementals can ever be
found in the mines. These are the "Gnomes," or Elementals
of the earth.
70 THE DIVlNI~ MVS1'I<~RV.
;'tliE !>lVlNE MYSTEkV. 7i
46. The only question which remains to be answered is this:
Whence do those little men, or Incubi, dwell? To that I reply:
Some are earthly, some aqueous, some aerial, some igneous;
that is to say, that their bodie3 are made of the most subtile
parts of the elements. Their dwellings will, consequently, be
found in that element which corresponds to their bodies. Igne-
ous Incubi, for instance, will only stay forcibly, may be will not
stay at all, in water or marshes, which are adverse to them,
Thus with the others also. We see the like happen to men,
who, accustomed to thicker air, cannot reach certain lofty ridg-
es of the Alps, where the air is too subtile for their lungs.
47. St. Austin, then, in his "Commentary on Genesis," book
2, chapter 17, writes as follows concerning Demons: "They
have the knowledge of some truths, partly through the more
subtile acumen of their senses, partly through the greater sub-
tility of their bodies," and book 3, chapter 1, "Demons are
aerial animals, because they partake of the nature of aerial bod-
ies." In his Epistle 115 to Hebridius he aftlrms that they are
"aerial or ethereal animals, endowed with very sharp senses."
In the "City of God," book 11, chapter 13, he says that "The
worst Demon has an aerial body." Book 21, chapter 10, he
writes: The bodies of certain Demons, as has been believed by
some learned men, are even made of the thick and damp air
which we breathe." Book 15, chapter 23: "He dares not de-
fine whether Angels, with an aerial body, could feel the lust
which would incite them to communicate with women." Psalm
14, he observes that "the body of Angels is inferior to the soul."
And in his book "De Divinit Daemonum" he everywhere, and
especially chapter 23, teaches that "Demons have subtile bod-
ies."
Regarding the food of the Elementals, or Incubi, let us see to
this, also.
48. I deduce that, being animals, consequently reproducible
through generation and liable to corruption, they require food
for the restoration of their corporal substance wasted by efflu-
via. For the life of every sensible being consists in nothing
else but the motion of the corporal elements which flow and
72 'tHlt DIVIN!t MYStltRY.·
'ritE DIVINE MVS·tEkV. 73
ebb, are acquired, lost and recruited by means of substances
spirituous, yet material, assimilated by the living things, either
through inhalation of air or by the fermentation of food which
spiritualizes its substance.
49. But their bodies being subtile, equally subtile and delicate
must be its food. And, just as perfumes and other vaporous
and volatile substances, when adverse to their nature, offend and
put them to flight, in the like manner, when agreeable, they de-
light in and feed upon them. Now, as ·is written by Cornelius,
"Manna is nothing but an emanation of water and earth, refin-
ed and baked by the heat of the sun, and then coagulated and
condensed by the cold of the following night." Of course, I
am speaking of the manna sent down from Heaven for the
nourishment of the Hebrews, and which differs, all in all, from
nostrate or medicinal manna. The latter, in fact, according to
Ettmuller, "is merely the juice or transudation of certain trees
which, during the night, gets mixed up with dew, and, the next
morning, coagulates and thickens in the heat of the sun." The
manna of the Hebrews, on the contrary, derived from other
principles, far from coagulating, iiquified in the heat of the
sun, as is shown in Scripture. The manna of the Hebrews was,
therefore, undoubtedly of the most subtile substance, consisting
as it did of emanations of ea1ih and water, and being dissolved
by the sun and made to disappear. Consequently, it may well
have been the food of the animals we are speaking of, and thus
have been truly called by David "Bread of Angels."
50. We have another authority in the Gospel according to
St. John, chapter 10, verse 16, where it is said: "And othfr
sheep I have, which are not of this fold. Them I must bring,
a1d they shall hear my voice, and they shall have one fold and
o1e shepherd." If we inquire what are those sheep which are
of that fold, and what the fold of which the Lord Christ speak-
eth, we are answered by all commentators that the only fold of
Christ is the Church to which the preaching of the Gospel was
to bring the Gentiles, sheep of another fold than that of the ·
Hebrews. They are, in fact, of opinion that the fold of O.rist
w"s ~he Synagogue1 because David had said1 Psalm 951 ver~e 7;
74 'tHlt DIVINE MVSl'EkV.
'tHE OIVlNE MYtS'fE~V. 76
"We are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand."
And, also, because Abraham and David had been promised that
the Messiah should be born of their race, because he was expect-
ed by the Hebrew people, foretold by the Peophets who were
Hebrews, and his advent, his acts, his passion, death and resur-
rection were prefigured in the sacrifice, worship and ceremoni-
als of the Hebrew law. •
51. But, saving always the reverence due to the Holy Fathers
and other Doctors, that explanation does not seem quite satis-
factory. For it is an article of belief that the Church of the
Faithful has been the only one in existence from the beginning
of the world, and will thus endure to the end of time. The
head of that Church is Jesus Christ, the mediator between God
and men, by whose contemplation all things were made and
created. Indeed, the faith in the Divine Trinity, though less
explicitly, and the Incarnation of Word were revealed to the
first man, and by him taught his children, who, in their turn,
taught them their descendants. And thus, although most men
have strayed into idolatry and deserted the true faith, many
kept the faith they have received from their fathers, and ob-
serving the law of nature, stayed in the true Church of the
Faithful, as is noticed by Cardinal Tolet in reference to Jot-,
who was a saint among idolatrous Gentile~. And, although
God had conferred special favors upon the Hebrew people, pre-
scribed for them peculiar laws and ceremonials, and separated
them from the Gentiles, yet those laws were not obligatory on
the Gentiles, and the faithful Hebrews did not constitute a
Church different from that of the Gentiles who professed their
faith in one God and the coming of the MessiaP..
52. All in all, it becomes clear that the Gentiles, also, belong-
ed, like fhe Jew, to the fold of Christ, that is, to the same
Church of the Faithful. It cannot, therefore, be correctly said
that the words of Christ: "Other sheep I have, which are not
of this fold," are applicable to the Gentiles, who had, in com-
mon with the Hebrews, the faith in God, the hope, prophecy,
expectation, prodigies and preaching of the Messiah.
53. I, therefo~:t, ~ay that by the words otber sbeep may very
76 'tHE DIVINE MVSTEtlV.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 77
well be understood those rationalcreatures, or animals, of whom
we have been treating hitherto. They being, as we have said,
capable of beatitude, and Jesus Christ being the moderator be-
tween God and man, as also every rational creature (forration-
al creatures attain to beatitude in consideration of the merits of
Christ, through the grace he conferred upon them, without
which beatitude is impossible of attainment,) every rational
creature must have cherished, at the same time as the faith in
God, the hope of the advent of Christ, and have had the revel-
ation of his nativity in U:e flesh and of the principlesof the law
of grace. Those were, therefore, the sheep which were "not of
human fold," and which Christ had to bring; the sheep which
were to hear his voice, that is, the announcement of his advent
and of the evangelical doctrine, either directly through him or
through the Apostles; the sheep which, partaking with men of
heavenly beatitude, were to realize "one fold and one shep-
herd."
54. To this interpretation, which I hold to be in no way im-
proper, force is added by what we related, according to St.
Hieronymus, of that little man who requested St. Anthony to
pray for him and his fellows, unto the common God, whom he
knew to have suffered in human flesh. For it implies that they
were aware of the advent and of the death of Christ, whom, as
God, they were anxious to propitiate, since sought, to that ef-
fect, the intercession of St. Anthony.
What we have hitherto deduced, accordingly solves the ques-
tion as to how a woman can be got with child by an Incubus
(Elemental.) In fact, it cannot be brought about by the vita
assumed fro1p man, agreeably to the common opinion which
we confuted. It follows, therefore, that she is directly impreg-
nated by the vita of the Incubus, which, being an animal and
capable of giving life, has the vita of his own. And thus is
fully explained the begetting of Giants from the intercourse of
the Sons of God with the Daughters of men; for that inter-
course gave birth to Giants who, although like unto men, were
of higher stature, and, though begotten of Demons, and conse-
quently of great strength, yet equalled them neither in might
•
78 THE DIVI~E MYSTERY.
THe DIVINE MYSTF.RY. 79
nor in power.
55. In confinnation of the above inference, we observe that
animals sprung from the mixing of different kindsdo not breed,
but are barren, as seen in certain kinds.
Now, we do not read of Giants having been begotten of oth-
er Giants, but of their having been born of the Sons of God,
that is Elemental, and the Daughters of men. Being thus be-
gotten of the vita of the Elemental mixed with the human vita,
and being, as it were, an intermediate species between them and
man, they had no generative power.
56. It will be retorted that, if the generation of Giants had
really come from the combined vita of Incubi and women,
Giants would still be born in our time, since there is no lack of
women who have intercourse with lncubi,as shown by the Acts
of St. Bernard and Peter of Alcantra.
57. Now, it must be observed that, after the flood, the air,
which surrounds our earthly and aqeous globe, became, from
the damp of the waters, thicker than it had been heretofore;
and damp being the principle of curruption, that may be the
reason why men do not live as they did before the flood. It is
also on account of that thickness of the air that ethereal and
igneons Demons, more corpulent than the others, can no long-
er dwell in the thick atmosphere, and if they do descend into it
occasionally, do so only by force, much as divers descend into
the depths of the sea.
58. Before the flood, when the air was not yet so thick, De-
mons came upon the earth and had intercourse with women.
Thus procreating Giants whose stature was nearly equal to that
of the Demons, their fathers. But now it is not so. The In-
cubi who approach women are equeous and of small stature.
That is why they appear in the shape of little men, and, being
aqueous, they are more lecherous. Poets have depicted Venus
as born of the sea, in order to show, as explained by mytholo-
gists, that lust takes its source from damp. When, therefore,
Demons of short stature impregnate women nowadays, the
children that are born are not Giants, but men of ordinary size.
It should, however, be known that when Demons have inter-
-
80 THE DIVINE MYSTERY.
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 81
course with women in their own natural body, without having
resourse to any disguise or artifice, the women do not see them,
or, if they do, see but an almost doubtful, barely invisible, shad-
ow. But when they want to be be seen they assume a visible
disguise and a palpable body. By what means this is effected
is their secret, which our shortsighted philosophy is unable to
discover. The only thing we know is that such disguise of
body could not consist merely in concrete air, since this must
take place through condensation, and, therefore, by the influ-
ence of cold. A body thus formed would feel cold like ice.
There is error in this, hecause it is not true that on-
ly the Elementals, that are aqueous, can have inter-
course with earth people. The one reason why the
Salamanders, or Elementals of Fire, which were really
the Giants, or Sons of God, do not appear more often
is because they are but few, and these few come only
when some leader of the people is required. It is not
the air or dampness which prevents them from reach-
ing the ea1ih plane, hut the fact that there are few
vessels properly fitted for the Great Work. All those
who have truly learned the A:.th Mystery can know
these Salamanders, although not all can come into di-
rect touch with them.
The world does not need Giants, and thus no Giants
would be born, for the law of Hermes is: "As above
so below." The demand for Giants is no longer, and,
therefore, such would not be born, unless we under-
stand it as Mental, Moral, or Spiritual Giants.
The means the Elementals use in order to become
visible is now know as materialization. However,
even this they need not employ, since those who want
to see them, and do see them, are usually such as are
Spiritually Developed, or, as the author would have
it, such as have the perception of Intuition.
59. As for intercourse with an Incubus, wherein is to be found
no element, not even the least, of an offence against Religion, it
is hard to discover a reason why it should be more grevi.ous
82 THE DIVIXE MYSTERY.
•
THE DIVINE MYSTERY. 83
than any other. Beastiality is a sin, because it degrades man,
both body and soul, but when with Incubus it is quite the re-
verse. For the Incubus, by reason of his rational and immortal
spirit, is equal to man; and by reason of his body more noble,
because more subtile, he is more perfect and more dignified than
man. Consequently, when having intercourse with an Incubus,
man does not degrade, but rather dignifies his nature.
Beloved student, you may question why the writ-
ings of a Catholic are thus brought prominently to
the fore. The reasons are many. Among these is
the fact that many students of the mysterious consid-
er that only the Occultist and Mystic, who is consid-
ered slightly weak anyhow by the people, has relieved
in these things. Herein it is shown, without danger
of contradiction, that all the Church Fathers, even the
Councils, have believed in this very thing.
Another reason is that it strengthens my contention
that the Immaculate Conception is not only possible
but that it is an absolute fact.
Still another reason is, that by quoting the Church
itself on these points, there is no danger of my chal-
lenge ever being accepted, for to do so would over-
throw the very foundation of religion. The work has,
therefore, served its purpose, and served it well.
The student will bear in mind that all the paragraphs num-
bered appear in the original book, known as "Demoniality; or,
Incubi and Succubi," by the Rev. Father Sinistrari of Ameno,
(17th century,) although many had to be changed on account
of the plain language used. All other parts are original, and
for which the present publisher is responsible.
A number of entirely new Laws are given, and I
challenge the entire world for a successful contradic-
tion of them.
Furthermore, it would seem that the desire of the Elementals
is to come into contact with mankind for the purpose of inter-
course, and Immortality through that. Let me tell you frankly
that such is not the case. All that these Elementals d.esire is to
84 THE DIVIXE MYSTERY.
...
'tHE DIVINU MYSTERY.
come into contact with true humanity and he lo·t'ed by such,
for they can become Immortal through this love just as well as
through the intercourse, if not more easily so, since intercourse
may lead to degradation. All that these Beautiful Beings desire
is the IO'Ve of those with whom they come into contact. They
actually do not seek any other intercourse, but, like all women
of the earth plane, they would not refuse the one whom they
thus love.
It may be questioned whether, to my personal and
absolute knowledge these things are facts, I answer,
they are absolutely true in every respect. I know of
those who, being Initiates of the A:th Brotherhood,
have been able to save hundreds of these Beautiful
Elementals. On the other hand, I know of many
who have been the victims o( disembodied Vampires.
I have had both men and women to come to me from
nearly every part of our country and plead with me
to help them get rid of these deadly Vampires who
were sapping their very life by sapping them of their
vitality. In every case I have been successful. Thus
do I know that these things are absolute facts, and,
through the following of these Laws for many years,
without failure in any case, I know that they are
absolute.
The student will excuse me for making these personal re·
marks, but they are required in order to show that the things
set forth are true.
FINIS.
tilE DIVINE MYStERY.
i
I
- ROSICRUCIAN WORKS.
-
BY DR. P. B. RANDOLPH.
SEERSIIIP. Guide to Soul-Sight, Clairvoyance, or
Sonambulistic Vision, its arts and culture, with rules for its
attainment, giving not only the views of the author, but of
various European and Asiatic adepts. Those desirous of
cultivating the occult will revel in the page11 of this manual.
Price, $2.00.
SOUL WORLD. The Homes of the Dead. A work deJi-
cated to those who think and feel, who are dissatisfied with
current theories and rash speculations regarding the soul,
its origin, nature and destiny. This was the first work read
on Rosicrucians by Dr. Clymer, and is his most precious
companion. Price, $2.00.
AFTER DEA1'H. The disembodiment of mau. Tho
world of spirits, its location, extent, appearance. 'l'he route
thither, inhabitation, customs, and societies. Also sex and
its use there, etc. This is a splendid work. Price, $2.50.
40VE, WOl\IAN, l\IARRlAGE. The woman's book
(but good for the brothers). A work for the heartful, love-
starved and isolated ones of the world. A book de,:oted to
magnetic attraction. The mystey of mysteries. Blondes
and brunettes, their relative love power, etc. Price, $~.50.
HERl\IES l\IERCURIUS TIUSJlEGIS'I'FS. His
Divine Pymander. Also the Smaragdine Table and the
Song of Brahm. (Edited by Dr. P. B. Randolph.) This
work comes from Bgypt. These Oriental documents at·c of
engrossing interest to all students of Occult Thought,
'fheosophy, and Buddhism. Price, $3.00.
EUJ_;lS. The greatest mystery of all. This work is be-
yond value to all students and should be studied by all who
have "Divine Alchemy" by Dr. Clymer. On the other
hand, all who have "Divine Alchemy" should havc this
work. No one who has the work would part with it if truly
interested in the things of the soul. It is beyond value. It
is the " History of I1ove." Price, $2.50.
Address all orders to
PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING CO.,
ALLEN'l'OWN, pA.
88 'tHE DIVINE M\'STERV.
• ROSICRUCIAN LITERATURE.
•
CLYMER, DR. R. SwiNBUUNE. The Ft·ateruity of the
Rosicrucians. '!'heir 'feachinga and Mysteries according to
the Manifestoes issued at various times by the l<'raternity
itself. Also some of their secret teachings n.nd the mystery
of the Order explained. 12mo pp. 314. $2.00.
CLYMER, DR. R. SwiNllUltNE. The Philosophy of the
Living Fire. (Love, God.) "'l'hl•re is nothing uew under
the sun." Fire Philosophy the l<'oundatiou of All 'rrue
Initiation, and All Mystic a111l Oecult .B'rateruities, as well
as the Secret Doctrines and .Aueilmt Mystei'il'S. Atlantis,
Its Beauty, and Its Fall. The 'l'emplars and }i'it·e Philoso-
phers. The Therapeut:e a!Hl Essetws all!! theit· Initiution.
12mo, pp. 174. 1906. $1.50.
CLYMim, Dn. H. SwJNJHml'·E. Ancient Mystic Ol'iental
Masonry; Its Teuchit•gs, Hules, I.aws ami Present Usages
which govem the Ordet· at the present day. '"!'rue l\Iasoury
and the Universal Brothel'iwod of Man are one." Cloth,
12mo, pp. 194. 1907. $1.50.
CLYMER, Dn. H. SwiNllUUNE. True Spiritualism. The
Beautiful Philosophy of Lifl', and not mct·c Spiriti!'m which
deals only with phenomeua. The bool~ contaius 190 pages,
printed on heavy egg-shell paper, handsomely bound in
cloth with lettering and si-le-st&mp in gold. 1!)07. $1.00.
DE ST. VINCEN'l', CouNT l\L The Oniet· Militia Crucifera
Evangelica. l<'oundcd on IIistory and their own Mani-
festoes, and on facts, documents aml writings in the pos-
session of the Bt·cthrcn of the Order at the present day. .•
12mo; pp. 198. Cloth, price, $2.00.
CLYMER, Du. H. SwiNBURNE. Alchemy and the Al-
chemists. 'l'his wol'l< is now pubbhed in four volumes.
Vol. I, pp. 2613. Vol. II, pp. 230. Vol. III, pp. 24i. Hound
in silk cloth, stamped in gold with symbol. ·'Jompilation of
the old masters, Paracclsus and others. Descriptive circular
of all of Dr. Clymer's books sent on application. Price of
the volumes, $8.50.
"Divine Alchemy ·· ''Illy for members of the OrJor vf
l'!ilitia Crucifera Evangeliea, by Dr. Clymer.
Complete Catalogue now ready.
Address the PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING CO.,
A.LL.f;Nl'OWNz PA.
90 'tHE DIVINE MYSTEkY.
THE AETH DRILL.
A series of instructions for the few. It gives com-
plete instructions for the development of aeth powers
and their use. By following these instructions it is
possible to completely charge your body with aeth life
within a few minutes, so that any one can feel it
eminating in streams from the body. It gives the
power known to but a few and hinted at by Bulwer
Lytton as his virile. It is the ''Elixir of Youth'' of
the Philosophers and the "tTniverFal Solvent" of the
Alchemists. Only a few can be taught. Cost of in-
structions, $150.00. This fee inelnrles text-hooks. All
lessons prepared for the individual student.
..-··
