{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__bosman___the_world_mother.pdf","mytitle":"The World Mother","mylang":"de"}
THE WORLD MOTHER
BY
LEONARD BOSMAN
LONDON
THE DHARMA PRESS
16 OAKFIELD ROAD, CLAPTON, E. 5
With grateful thanks to Ml88
N. Wheatland, of Worthing,
for her work in preparing the
manuscript for publication.
THE WORLD MOTHER,
DuBiNG the many years in which the
Theosophical teachings have been promul-
gated, there have been a few who have
wondered why the Occult Hierarchy should
apparently consist entirely of Beings using
male bodies. The One Life has its
feminine as well as its masculine aspect, and
it is therefore as reasonable to expect that
the feminine qualities should be expressed
most fully through Great Beings using
female bodies as it is that the masculine
qualities should be expressed most fully
through Great Beings using niale bodies.
That there are female as well as male
Arhats is obvious, and we have quite
certainly learned as much of the Divine
Wisdom from the one as from the other ;
moreover, w^hat we have seen of them
shows conclusively that the masculine and
feminine qualities are blended in each of
them—the men having the gentleness and
i^iental refinement of the female, and the
women the strength and mental clarity of
the male. This makes it more difficult to
understand why a male body should be
considered more convenient than a female
body for the work a Master has to do
;
doubtless, there are good physiological
4 THE WORLD MOTHER
reasons foi- tliis, bul ji knowledge of them
is certainly not easily nnule public.
That in the long upward climb towards
l)erfection, the human being should need
exj)eriences tlnougli both male niid female
bodies is evident, for man, as a spark of the
Divine Flame, has to learn free and pure
expression for both .'ispeets and manifest
the feminine aspect through experiences
gained in female bodies, and also the mas-
culine aspect through experiences gained in
male bodies. Yet it is obvious that some
Egos, realising the purpose of evolution and
feeling a strong call to this or that s|)ecial
department of the work, could, for the
purposes of that work, deliberately dedicate
themselves to an age-long series of incarna-
tions in one sex only ; thus, in their long
climb upwards, developing the qualities of
the sex chosen and learning to express them
to the highest possible ))itch of perfection,
from the first early stages of their spiritual
awakening and self-dedi cation up to the
stages of the Arhat and the Master. But
apart from such cases as these, it seems
necessary that both sides of the nature
should be developed, for until man has
reached the stage where he will be neither
masculine nor feminine but a spiritual
blend of the two, it is needful (the body
being the restrictive agent to the life which
it undoubtedly is) that it should be capable
of being used exclusively for the purpose of
THE WORLD MOTHER 5
clevelo[)iiig the especial qualities of Deity
of which it is an expression—^the male hody
of the Causative aspect and the female
body of the Formative.
This method of development is as needful
in the case of the feminine qualities as of
the masculine ; for while the male body is
capable of being used as a channel for the
positive-masculine-causative aspect of the
Deity, it is the female body which is best
suited to express the receptive-feminine-
formative aspect. And it is only the perfect
expression of these dual aspects through
Great Beings of both sexes which will bring
home to struggling, unsatisfied humans a
full realisation of the task that awaits them
and enthuse them with the determination
first to develop and then to synthesise the
like attributes within themselves.
Despite the fact that a Master does not
generally use a female body, there yet remains
a feminine side of Nature, and it is reason-
able to expect that its especial qualities
should be expressed by Great Beings using
female bodies. The Angelic orders, as is
well known, express the qualities usually
associated with both the male and female
types, and although the Perfect Man is able
to blend both natures in Himself and show
them forth as needed, there is still the
possibility of a Master being more masculine
than feminine in His manner. This is clearly
seen in the case of the Great Fouiider of
6 THE WORLD MOTHER
(lie Tlioosophicjil Society, tlio Master Morya,
wliose type in distinctly masculine and who
has not. it is said, so far been traced in
a leinale incarnation in Plis past lives. On
the other hand, there are Those who seem
to show forth more of the feminine than
the masculine attributes, as is the case, to
a certain extent, with the Master Koot
Hoomi, for though it cannot be said that
He is more feminine than masculine, Pfe
does undoubtedly seem to the would-be
disciple to show forth the formative qualities
of His nature more prominently than the
causative.
It is, of course, obvious that the Masters
of Wisdom, to Whom we aspire and to
Whom we look for guidance, are able to
help wherever help is needed. Yet there is
still a feeling in some minds that in the
case of feminine difficulties there is need of
a " Mother's understanding." True, we all
have to learn to stand alone, yet there are
times in the life of a woman when she would
be glad to be able to express herself as
a woman to a Woman, and this possibility
w^ould seem to have been somewhat obscured
in the Theosophical teachings although it
has always been to the fore in Anglican and
Roman Chi'istianity.
The One Life in all is the same, but the
male and female bodies through which it
works cause certain modifications in its
expression. It is not that the male is
THE WORLD MOTHER 7
better than the female, or the female
better than the male ;
yet there is a marked
difference in the two types, not only in the
physical bodies, but, it is said, also in the
astral and lower mental, and this causes
a corresponding difference in their methods
of feeling and thinking, so that egos using
bodies either definitely masculine or defi-
nitely feminine find it difficult to express
themselves in any other manner than that
characteristic of the vehicles they are
temporarily using.
This fact gives rise to certain difficulties,
not only in ordinary life, but also in the
higher life. There are many cases known
of instructions given to men which have
proved helpful both on this plane and on
others, both in the waking state and in the
dream state ; but, icitli certain great excep-
tions, there seem to have been few women
in the Theosophical Society capable of
understanding the great difficulties in the
way of the would-be occultist incarnated in
a female body. Yet the difficulties peculiar
to women are not generally understood by
men, and this makes more obvious the need
for highly-evolved women to whom women
students may go in their difficulties and in
whom they will find developed the powers
needed for the giving of a correct diagnosis
and of helpful, encouraging advice. That
this need will be more and more filled as
the " Woman's Age " progresses, there is no
8 THE WORLD MOTHER
doubt; nioanwliilc, tljosc who st'ek to lill
such a role in tlif futuie will liiid tlicii- task
the oasiiu" for an iiniiicdiate undcistaudiug
of and roHponso to tlie wonderful teaching
regard inf,^ tlie World Mother. Su(.h a
response will not only enable them to put
themselves into touch with Her, but will
also give them the power to understand
the work Slie is doing for the Race and the
part they themselves may play in helping
forward that work.
Although now almost unrecognised in
the West, save in the Roman and Anglican
Churches, this idea of a World Mother has
nevertheless existed from the earliest days
and found expression in practically all
religions, as study shows. It was not, of
course, considered that God w^as either male
or feiuale, either Father or Mother, in the
ultimate sense; yet it was known from
earliest days that His Being expressed
Itself in our world as a Duality—positive-
causative and receptive-formative, the latter
being termed His Shakti, that through which
He expressed Himself in terms of time and
space. And it was this, the aspect of Him-
self in and from which all forms came into
existence, that was called the World Mother
—the term " Mother " being ever the symbol
of that from which all forms are born.
Among the ancient Hindus, this feminine
THE WORLD MOTHER 9
aspect of the One was called Aditi. In the
metaphysical sense She was the World
Mother, the Virgin Substances, the Nounienon
of Matter spread everywhere in SjKice, from
which, as from a womb, all things were
born. But this abstract idea later became
personified in order to help those who were
unable to grasp religious truths save as
they were represented to them in image
and symbol, and the World Mother then
became known as Deva-mati'i, " the Mother
of the Gods." She is said to have given
birth to eight sons, with whom, after casting
away the eighth, She approached the Gods
;
the meaning being that She prepared from
Her own Substance and presented to the
Gods, or Planetary Beings, the seven planets
through and over which they were to rule,
the eighth "son," whom She had cast into
space, becoming the sun. Vishnu, the
Cosmic Christ, the Second Aspect of the
Holy Trinity, is said to have been born
from her in His incarnatioJi as The Dwarf
—
a very deep symbolism—and He is conse-
quently sometimes called Aditya. Krishna,
the Hindu World Teacher, is also said to
have been born from Her, although Devaki
was really His mother, and the meaning
here is i)robably that She, in Her aspect as
World Mother, allied Herself mystically
with the mother of Krishna, giving her
especial blessing because of the great work
awaiting' her Son. There is here the same
10 THE WORLD MOTnER
connection between Aditi an Woild Mother
and DcvaJd mother of Krishna aw there is
between the Cosmic Marc, or Virgin Hca
of Substance, and Mary, the jiiother of
Jesus.'
Each Person of the Holy Trinity is said
to have Its "feminijie" Power, or Sliakti,
and we iind tliat tlie Shakli of Shiva (as
the Hindu called the Third Person of the
Trinity), was called Jagan-mata or " Mother
of the World," and was also known as " The
Virgin," or Kanya. Although She represents
a i)ower of Spirit rather than of Substance,
She is described as having two aspects, the
one terrible and fierce and the other gentle
and mild, and thus as showing clearly the
two opposites. Passion and Pure Love, over
which She rules ; for these are, of course,
opposite poles of one and the same reality,
the savage lust of the unevolved man
ultimately becoming transmuted into the
Pure Love of the Master and the Christ.
Lakshmi, the Power, or Shakti, of Vishnu,
is also said to have been the Mother of the
World. She is akin to the Grecian Aphrodite
—the one beiiig born from the churning of
the ocean, the other from the foam of the
sea; the meaning being, of course, that
pure love comes to the surface of the astral
element, love being produced fi'om desire
but rising above it.
1 See the writer's Amen, the lu'i/ to the Universe (Tlio TMiarma
Press).
THE WORLD MOTHER 11
In most of the religions of the world this
idea of the feminine aspect of Deity has
been prominent, its Representatives differ-
ing in different ages. Isis of Egypt stands
out more clearly than others, probably
because more of Her story has been given to
the world. Ishtar, or Mylitta, of Babylon is
also well known. Aphrodite and other
maternal Powers are represented in the
Greek and Roman mythologies, whilst
Demeter of Greece and Her Temples are
still remembered by those who once served
Her and who still serve her successor, Mary.
The Carthaginians worshipped the Great
Mother, or Heavenly Virgin, and She is
said to be the same as Tanith ; Lat of the
Arabians was also reverenced by the Naba-
theans as Mother of the Gods, as was the
Virgin Mother at Petra/
It is probable that all these names for
the World Mother applied to one Represen-
tative, the Office evidently being held for
long ages by one individual. It is evident
that in Egypt the worship of Isis was carried
to great extremes, and a perusal of the
evidence in Budge's works on Egypt strongly
conduces to the idea that Christian doctrines
are reflections of the Divine Wisdom as it
was taught in Egyi)t. This fact makes the
story of Isis of especial interest to all who
believe in the World Mother; for though
the real truth regarding Her lies deeply
1 History of the Semites, Robertsou-Smith, pp. 56-7.
12 THE WOPiLI) MOTIIEll
buried helical li tlic story of llcr w aii(.ltM*in<^s
as an cartlily woman and arc more cosniic
llian tcricslrial, She was novcrtliclcss repre-
sented by a (ircat Being wlio bad attained
to tbe Angelic K^ingdom after lia\ ing i-eacbed
Perfection along w bat may be called feminine
lines.
At tbe end of Her eartbly pilgrimage, tbis
Great l^eing became one witb Her Cosmic
Lord, Osii'is, baving, symbolically, found tbe
scattered remnants of His Body in dilTereiit
parts of tbe world and, in piecing tbem
togetber again, made Osiris whole; tbat is
to say, sbe bad realised perfectly tbe Divine
Immanence, seeing God as oue Wbole,
undivided and indivisible, though i)resent
everywhere throughout the Universe. It is
probable that she took on the office after it
had been vacated by an earlier (Atlantean)
Being; but whatever the succession of office
it was Isis who answered the prayers of the
Egyi)tians, presided over all functions of
a feminine nature and radiated Her loving
power and wisdom upon all —thus becoming,
as wus said of tbe later Eve, " the Mother
of all living." Her aj)pearance was denoted
by a blue and silver brilliancy which can be
seen to this day by all who contact Her
activities, even though She has now finished
Her work as Representative of tbe World
Motbei' and has passed onward to tak(* up
other work, of tbe nature of wliicb we k'novv
nothing.
THE WORLD MOTHER 13
Hei" siiccossor in offico, ilio pi'osoiit Repre-
seiitativo of the World Molhor, is tliat Great
Being wlio was known as Mary, the Mother
of Jesus. She, like Isis, had linked Herself
ver}' definitely witli what must, for want of
a better term, be called the feminine aspect
of God, becoming, through Her great love
and Icnowledge (es[)ecially of the feminine
principles in Nature) and Her great purity,
the guardian of a.U Her sex, the Dispenser
of the Love and Power of the Great Mother.
For ail who listen attentively, in the hope
of hearing God's Voice speak to them "in
the cool of the day," i.e., in the innermost
centre of their own nature when the heat
of kmna-manas (the mind ruled by the
emocions) has subsided, this message of
Our Lady's continued work for the world is
peculiarly helpful and significant. There is,
however, nothing new in the idea of a World
Mother, new though it may be even tb some
members of the Theosophical Society. It
was spoken of long ago in The Secret Doctrine
by H. P Blavatsky, who states that "Isis
was the mother and nourisher of man " and
was " considered as feminine and I'epresented
as a virgin woman by the Egyptian Initiates.
It was the pure idea of mystic
Natui'c that was personified in the '
Woi-ld
Virgins,' the '
Celestial Maidens,' and later
on by the human Virgin, Mary, the Mother
of the Saviour, the Salvator Afinidi now
chosen bv the Christian world. And it was
14 THE WORLD MOTHER
tlic clijUMclcr of the Jewish iiiaidcii lluir was
adiipU'il by '^riicolo'^y to arcliaic- syiiiholisiii."
{S.D. iii. 'i'.)?). She also (jiiotoK Maury, wlio
says tliat " the Virgin took poKscssion of all
tlio Sanctuaries of Cores and Venus, and
that the I*agan rites, proclaimed and i)rac-
tised in honour of these Goddesses, were in
a great measure transferred to the Mother
of Christ " {ibid., i., p. 431). The same writer
shows elsewhere that the Virgin Mary took
over all the attributes of Isis and continued
Her work.
It is interesting to note these remarks in
this connection, for there are a few students
in the Society who make a distinction be-
tween what they call Neo-Theosophy and
the teachings of Tlic Secret Doclr'nic, foi-
getting that the later leaders of the Society
were pupils of H. P. B. and that their teach-
ings are all based upon those of TJic Secret
Doctrine, being but enlarged snapshots of
that very compact work. The promulgation
of the Divine Wisdom is a gradual process,
for each age has its especial need and
humanity is not capable of understanding
the whole fullness of Truth in any one age;
hence the necessity for teachers w^ho can
understand and satisfy the need of the age
by understanding and interpreting the teach-
ing of the Masters as it is related thereto,
as that teaching was given to H. P. Blavatsky
and as it was and is given to Their other
pupils.
THE WORLD MOTHER 16
It is not a question of " WJio said that ?
"
but what is said that really matters. The
later teachings do not contradict the old,
although the need of these later days may,
and does, necessitate that emphasis should
be given to different aspects of that teaching.
The student who seeks to become a pupil
of the Master must become catholic in the
correct sense of that much-abused word and
must be sufficiently broad-minded to listen to
all that is said and sufficiently stable to make
his own decisions under the guidance of the
Self within him. There is no need for him
to be a blind follow^er, but neither need he,
like Nelson, deliberately put the telescope
to his blind eye and say " I cannot see the
signal." He must know how to open himself
up to truth and become a true Catholic-
Eclectic, accepting all that is offered, and
from the mass selecting the best, as far as
his own development will permit. Lessons
may be learned from a child as w^ell as from
a Master and as the One Light is in all it
would be foolish to decide beforehand from
which direction the light will shine to
illumine the path of the aspirant. To re-
ceive, per-ceive and con-ceive—this is the
duty of the would-be disciple w^ho seeks to
become able to serve and to do the work
which must be done for the defence and
enlightenment of the world.
Rigidity of mind is the great enemy of all
who would use their know^ledge to help and
16 THE WORLD MOTHER
not, to hinder. 'IMiis ri^idit-y lias grown up
in v(Mv many of us in \\n\ Tlicosopliical
Society, but much help lias been given to
lessen it especially by the Liberal Catholic
Church, and througli the Coining of the
World T(!acher. Indeed, great helj) has
also been received by many through the
ceremonial ^vorshi|) of the Church and of
Freemasonry, and there was always a need
for this form of development, for the
Theosophical Society has been jierhaps too
exclu&ivelyoccuj)iedwitli intellectual studies.
Such studies are, of course, necessary, but
they are not useful if pursued to the exclusion
of the devotional side of the natui'e. The
Liberal Catholic Church has helped many
membersof the Society, who, otherwise, would
never have attended any form of worship,
and their development has undoubtedly gone
forward more ra])idly than it would had they
restricted their activities to attending or
taking lectures and study groups. The way
of approach to God, and hence to man,
through ceremonial worship is a very real
and sure one, and though there are a few
to whom it does not appeal, it none the less
offers a means of rapid advancement to the
individual. The more intimate presence of
the World Mother should also have a great
effect upon all who are able to take
advantage of it.
t- * * . *
Geoffrey Hodson has told how, whilst
THE WORLD MOTHER 17
making clairvoyant researches into pre-natal
development, be first learnt for himself of
the Madonna's work for the world. Whilst
studying the pre-natal development of
a human embryo he found that a deva
was at work upon it and noticed that in the
ninth month the aura of the deva under-
went a remarkable change, appearing "like
a beautiful mantle of blue thrown over the
head and shoulders, with one corner covering
the mother and child. . . . The blue mantle
. . . shone with a silvery sheen, and as the
head of the deva was bent down over his
charges and his arms embraced them, the
effect was irresistibly reminiscent of the
Madonna and Child.''
This appearance as of a blue mantle
covering the head and shoulders of all who
are specially connected with the World
Mother, appears not only during childbirth
;
it can also be seen over the heads of those
devotees of Our Lady who, by reason of
a strongly maternal nature or of strong
attachment to Her, endeavour to channel
Her blessing to others. The hue of the
colour in the case of the Madonna is perhaps
not quite that used by the Lady Isis, being
of a darker, brilliantly electric shade of blue,
of great depth and purity of colouring.
" There w^as such a deep tenderness, such
a truly maternal spirit of love and joy and
protection " expressed in the attitude of the
deva, that Geoffrey Hodson set himself to
18 THE WORLD MOTHER
discover its cause. liaising' his conscious-
ness to liij^iiei- planes, lie siiw tliiit the real
source of the wonderful love and i)rotection
en\vra))|)ing the mother and child was :
one so lovoly, so truly fMiibodx ing ttie
spirit of Motlu'iliood, as of woiiuinhood, that I knew
Her as none otlior than tlio Blessed Mother Herself.
Radiant and beautiful is She l)eyond description.
She sliines with all the ^lor.N of divinity, yet Her
'
form '
is that of a fresh >ounK girl : throuRh the
wondrous eyes there shines forth a glowing happi-
ness, an almost ecstalie ))liss which in spite of its
exaltation and supoihuman intensity is .\et full of
the liappy laughter of children, sti-angel.\ combined
with the deep content moiil of human matuiity."
So intimate aiul wondeiful was Her over-
sliadowing of the deva, and through the
(lera of the mother and child, that it seemed
as if She Herself were actually present at
the birth.
" So close does She come tliat She actuall> seems
to share the pangs of birth as well as the joys of
parenthood : indeed, I believe that She actually
unifies Herself with the womanhood of the world,
suffering with them all their pain, even their shame
and degradation, in order that She may more truly
share with them Her own divine achievement. Her
own wondrous power. Her all-embracing love.
" So I think does She expeiience with them all the
joys of the first love, the fresh beauty of awakening
womanhood, as well as the deep happiness of maturity"
and the joys of wife and mother. . . .
" This influence must increase the power, depth
and beauty of the love of the maid for her man, give
courage and endurance to the wife in the hours of
her pain and trial and increase enormously the value
to tlio ego of tliose great ex)mnsions of consciousness,
THE WORLD MOTHER 19
those deep changes of soul which come to every
woman in some degree when she passes into the
valley of the shadow of death that a child may be
born.
" She seeks ever the perfection as w ell of the
individual as of the race and She works first through
woman, seeking ever to exalt the sacredness of
marriage and maternity, to restore to man the lost
ideals of the deeph sacred nature of marriage and
parenthood. She knows that thus a purer race will
be born, a race that shall provide bodies ever more
and more fit to be the temple of the indwelling God."'
It is well that the student of Occultism
should realise that although the act of
child-birth is just a natural and in some
ways even mechanical process, yet the
experience gained by the mother is by no
means so. No woman can pass through it
without gaining some extension or expansion
of consciousness, and no one who has borne
a child should ever be able to lose the
realisation of having thus expressed herself.
Even though a normal experience, it is one
which should, and nearly always does, give
a newer and broader outlook upon life to all
who pass through it.
This is the effect of the experience on the
ordinary woman, an effect which must surely
be greatly enhanced in the case of the woman
who is an occult student and whose life is
devoted to service. In her case, the awaken-
ing caused by the act of birth-giving must
be far more pronounced ; indeed it is probable
'
The Herald of the Star, .August. 19-2().
20 THE WORLD MOTHER
that no woman can become a real occultist
unless sIk* lias gained sucli an expansion of
consciousness and gained it alon^ tliis lint-.
There are some, of course, to whom such an
expansion of consciousness comes in oilier
ways. A few have learned the lessons of
Mothei'hood without having to pass tlirough
the pangs of labour. In any case, it is j)os-
sible that no woman can attain to perfection
unless she has, either mystically or actually,
gained such an experience, and thus caused
the Motherhood ideal to become tii-mly
engrained within her. The suppression
practised by so many women who give
themselves up to religious and philosophical
studies often leads to reaction of an un-
pleasant kind, to a peculiar introversion
which shows upon their faces, whereas the
woman who has learned to give expression
to the holy forces of motherhood within her
has gained a wonderful experience which, if
she can hold on to it, will enable her to
contact a breadth and depth of spiritual
consciousness unknown to her before.
For those who have missed or have refused
this particular mode of service, or have not
yet realised the beauty of Motlicrhood, the
present age offers a wonderful oi)portunity
of realising it mi/sticaUjj by co-operating
with the work of the World Mother. Those
who feel drawn to such woi'k will be enabled,
through devotion to Her and by meditative
union with Her, to become Her messengers
THE WORLD MOTHER 21
to the world. And iu Her service the woiiiau
who has suppressed her nature and become
somewhat cold and rigid, a prey to fear of
sex, may safely loosen Jier bonds, and in so
doing become a Mother to the needy, and
a warmly sympathetic friend to all.
It is unfortunate that Protestantism,
which has done so much good in putting
aside many of the exaggerated views of the
Roman Catholic Church, should have lost so
much that is of very great value; for despite
its inability to appreciate the maternal side
of God and Nature, it is undoubtedly true
that very wonderful help is given to the
world by " Our Lady," the World Mother.
When it is remembered how many there are
w^ho need the loving care of a Mother who
is the Mother of all mothers and Queen of
Love and Sympathy, it will perhaps be
realised how' necessary is the help of such
a Being. There is not a prayer for aid She
does not answer in Her own way, not a
Mother or child from whom She turns. Not
that prayer is necessary to gain the help of
One w^ho takes as Her province the whole
w^orld of Womanhood and Childhood, and
pours Her love unceasingly upon both. But
prayer and meditation are both of use to
the individual and She certainl}- answers
whenever a call is sent to Her. Prayer of
the cruder type cannot but be weakening,
22 TIIM \V()i;i.l) MOTURR
for It iiiduLcs a UmhIcikv Luwards n lack of
self-rcliaiKM' ; but flicrc arc ncvcrtliclcss
times in tin- lives ol men and women when
the need is felt loi' a dccpei- sympathy than
that f^iven by ordinary fiicnds. Tliis in
especially so in the case of many women,
even when tiiey are highly evolved : for
such do not always receive sympathy froni
their equals, indeed theii- dilliculties are not
often understood or are understood only by
those too busy to notice the need for h(dp.
In such cases, prayer or, better still, medi-
tation, is of great assistance, hringing the
aspirant into direct contact with the Mother
of mothers, and consciously into the orbit
of Her unfailing love and blessing. Though
concerned with a World Work, the World
Mother answers each call that comes to
Her, pouring true Love and sympathy and
strength upon all who need it, giving to
women a strength which they do not
ordinarily possess, however highly evolved
they may be. She does not condemn the
so-called fallen ones. Her rich sympathy
being as truly with the lowest prostitute
as with the highest Lady in the land.
It is certainly a matter for regret that
the western world has almost lost nil know-
ledge of the maternal side of Nature as so
marvellously rejiresented by the World
Mother. In the East to-day She is as well
known as she was in all ancient religions.
No one would accuse the devout Hindu of
THE WORLD MOTHER 23
"going over to Iloiiic " Ijccauso he sees both
sides of Nature and of God and consequently
reverences the " Shakti," or feminine aspect
of the Creator, as well as the Creator Himself.
The difficulty in the West is caused by the
fact that, although Christians hail Christ
as Divine, they fear to acknowledge the
divinity of the human being because this
would entail the recognition that the realisa-
tiou of God is as possible to the woman as
to the man. But nothing could be more
illogical than the assumption that whereas
the Divine Life in Christ was fully and
perfectly realised, in His own Mother it
could not be so because she was a woman.
There are some who say, with regard to
this, " Worship God alone," forgetting that
God manifests Himself to man in various
ways, His Life being everywhere and in
everything, and that when a Being has
become perfect then in that Being the Light
of God will shine brightly, and be of inestim-
able service to all, whether that being use
a male or a female body. We have to learn
to reverence true greatness and to look for
it in all, for by so doing we acknowledge
the presence of God in His Universe and in
humanity. It is not that we offer to man
the worship that should be given to God,
but that in reverencing all we worship the
Divinity in them, and through them pay
homage to the One from whom all came.
As the ancient Sanskrit writer puts it,
24 TflR WORLD MOTHER
" not for tlio husband is ilic liUMbiiud loved
but for the divinity in liio iiusband is the
liusbiind loved; not for the mother is the
inotlxM- loved but for the divine life in her
is she loved."
it is |)i-obable that the western world will
learn to appreciate this idea of the World
Mother when it is better understood. The
few thousands who already accept it will,
by reason of their quiet enthusiasm and
deep conviction, cause the knowledge of it
to sj)read over the world, so that in time
the great majority will also accept it and
be helped accordingly ; and as this is the
age of woman's emancipation and the male
is slowly losing his self-assumed domina-
tion, it is probable that women will have
much to do in opening human hearts and
minds to the influence of the Great Mother.
Though acceptable, in a general sense, to
the devout Roman and Anglo Catholic, the
idea as it is presented by the Theoso{)hist is
so much more catholic and far-reaching
that it will probably only be accepted in
this broad meaning by those who are in
sympathy with all religions, seeing each as
a distinctive and necessary note in a great
chord of Religion.
It is interesting to note that, long before
Dr. Annie Besant had entered the Theo-
sophical Society, the matter of the World
Mother had been dealt with in the pages of
Madame Blavatsky's own journal, Lucifer
THE WORLD MOTHER 25
(Jan., 1880). In m,ii article, ''A Vision
produced by Music " (since reprinted in the
June, 1928, TJieosophist), a contributor
speaks of tlie vision which came to lier as
a celebrated artiste was singing an Ave
Maria and Liszt's Saini Elizabeth's Prayer.
In a side chapel the writer saw the Virgin
slowly ascending and gradually becoming
transfigured, so that " the radiance and the
glory were too bright for my eyes. . . .
I heard a voice as from heaven say: 'Be
comforted, lone heart, I ascend now but
only to descend again ; wait with j)atience.'
"
The symbols of Man Crucified on earth
were next shown her and a voice was heard
explaining that he would remain " crucified
until Mary comes back again. . . . The
partition between the two worlds can never
be removed until Mary descends again into
the living human heart, annulling its division
and bringing to each the divine counterpart
of which Maria is the eternal symbol.
When Slic comes agam—and I say the time
is not long—the Crucifixion of Man shall be
ended Maria comes soon again to
each and all, and there shall be no more
sorrow or sighing in the Whole City of God.
Pra.y then that She may come soon, for the
earth is weary of Her absence."
Dr. Besant, writing in The Theosophist,
June, 1928, affirms that tlie World Mother
spoke to her directly, asking her to announce
Her coming, to announce to the world the
26 THE WORLD MOTHER
coiiiiii;^' ol" the Divine (^oiiipiissioii in its
Icinalc nspccl . She s.iys :
'•
W'Jicii tlio
Woiid MoLLici" spukc lu nic ul '
our blessed
Lord now in the world,' it was a glad surprise,
and linked 1()<(eniei-, as with a ^^olden clas|),
the Kingdom of lla.pj)iness proclaimed by
our Krishnaji, and the all-embracing Com-
passion of the Divine Motherhood. Slowly
will come this complementary worjv, calmly,
serenely, the revelation of the true place of
Woman in the coming civilisation, not as
the rival of man, but as his comrade, his
friend."
After she had received from the World
Mother this assurance of Her coming closer
to humanity. Dr. Besant gave a most wonder-
ful sermon at Adyar in the course of which
she stated that the " World Mother stands
out as the representative of Womanhood,
in its highest function, the function of
Mother. Now Motherhood as a national
vocation has not been recognised to the full
in the West ; and it is a little strange that
in the Constitution of the German Republic
we meet for the first time the definite
recognition of Motherhood and of the duty
of the Nation to the mothers of the Nation,
That is to be one of the notes of the future,
and the great movement of recognition of
that is to begin here. For all the great
religious movements have come forth from
the East. . . . It is at this time, in
connection with the same forward move-
THE WORLD MOTHER 27
ment of civilisation, that the World Mother,
—known by different names in different
faiths, is coming forward to take Her special
place as the Mother of the World, recog-
nised pnblicly, as She has ever been active
spiritually. Hers is the tender mercy that
presides at the birth of every child, whatever
the rank or place of the mother. The
sacredness of Motherhood brings beside the
bed of suffering, Her compassion and Her
tenderness. Her all-embracing Motherhood
knows no differences of caste, colour, rank.
All, to Her, are Her children ; the tenderest
of all human movements, and, because the
most compassionate, the greatest power in
the civilisation."
But although Dr. Besant was told by the
World Mother Herself to proclaim Her
advent it is not, as she acknowledges, she
herself who is to lead the movement. " It
will be," she says, " Rukmini Arundale. It
was for that she was chosen, that she was
cared for through her (as yet) short life on
earth. It is she who is chosen by the
World Mother to spread through India and
the world this recognition, which partly has
been overlooked by western thought, of the
sanctity, the greatness of Motherhood in all
its varied aspects. And it is well that such
a movement should be led by an Indian
woman, chosen for this splendid work. . . .
Wide as the world, it will be. Great as the
Divine Power, it wdll be. The West is
28 THE WORLD MOTHER
i(':i(lv lor il, lof it i'«'C()<^nis(»s llir power ot"
woman, and llic cori-ccrivc llniL is needed
tluMo is tlial woman is not nuin's rival Ijut
the other side of God ; tliat marriage is
a lioly saeiameni, the great nnion of tlie
Divine Nature by wliieli Humanity is ci'eated
and ('volved, . . . And tliis great move-
ment for eo-operating with tlie woi'k of I he
Worhl Teacher will be ibe femiiniie sid(»
of the work for the uplill of iliiinanit}'.
I count it as the greatest privilege of my
life to have announced and |)repai"ed for tlie
coming of the World Teacher. And that
is crowned when I am bidden to-day to
announce the complementary movement,
the movement of Motherhood, which will
appeal, T believe, to the hearts of the
Nations, whether they belong to the East
or to the West. . . .
"There is a great Sj)iritual Being who
represents the feminine side of Divinity in
a concrete form —the Ideal Womanhood, as
the Ideal Manhood is represented by the
World Teacher. . . . The Hindus have
always regarded the Emanator of the Uni-
verse and His j)roducts as of His own dual
nature; every divine manifestation is dual,
masculine and feminine. . . In the feminist
movement of the West the idea of God as
Father-Mother has been re-born ; the Catho-
lic-Christian concept of th.e Madonna has
instinctively preserved the Ideal Womanhood
—'Our Lady.'
THE WORLD MOTHER 29
'•
The time being ripe, this Great Being,
whose function is clearly indicated by the
title She bears of '
World Mother,' has
deigned to give to Her world the following
'Call,' transmitted through the inevitably
imperfect channel of a pupil living in the
outer world. Now the difficulty of trans-
lating messages from the higher planes of
consciousness into physical plane words is
that above the mental plane, images are
used, not words. The words convey the
images or thought, but these vary with the
mental vocabulary of the translator. The
substance of the thought is conveyed, but
the words may be bolder or more ornate,
according to the artistic or emotional habit
of the translator. Unless this be understood,
many difficulties arise ; it is peculiarly true
in this region that '
the letter killeth but
the Spirit giveth life.'
"
But why, it may be asked, should an
Indian woman be chosen to represent the
World Mother ? But it is just because she
is an Indian woman that she has been
chosen. As Dr. Besant says, " only in India
can be found the pure unmixed descent of
Aryan blood for thousands of years, marked
by the wonderful delicacy of the physical
body, the utter j^urity and impersonality of
the emotional nature and the subjection
of the mind to the intuition." (TJie Thco-
sopliisf, June, 19'28.) All those wlio know
Mrs. Arundale will acknowledge that this
80 THE WOULD .MOTHER
is a most fittinj^ clcseiiption of her jiiid w ill
feci with Di". I^csjint that she "is woitliy of
ho.v great iiiissi(jii in tlie world."
Tims tlicrc ('Oincs, thi'ou^di I)i\ Bcsaiit
and Mrs. Uukiniiii Arundalc, the assurance
that this wonderful Being intends to hring
Herself into yet closer contact with the
human race, to the end that woman, so
long the physical chattel, the emotional
plaything of man, may realise to the full
the great oppoi'tunity that is hers for help-
ing in the upliftment of the race and for
the fulfilment of her own divine destiny as
woman—in her holy love, in her sacred
ability for motherhood. So the World
Mother gives Her " Call."
*'
Do yon know how glorious is Motlierliood '?
In
every kingdom of natuie the peiiotl of Mothoihood
is subHine, for the fiercest of creatures becomes
infinitely tender, the most selfish full of sacrifice,
the weakest mighty in self-forgetful protection.
Such is the transmuting power of Motherhood,
which lifts the lowest creature for the time into the
splendour of its Divinity. Even the very physical
body itself glows with faint consciousness of the
Immanence of the Mother-Life Universal ; and to
those in whom the ineffable m>stery of Motherhood
dwells is opened a marvellous vision of the glory of
the creative power of Life, of that which is the
sublime and glorious wonder of Divinity. What is
more wonderful than INIotherhood, for Motherhood is
the supreme Act of God, with peifoct i-efloction in
every living Spark of ITis Lif(\
" In the home, the IMotherhood of woman has
supreme place and has been honoured from time
immemorial, though false tradition and blasphemous
THE WORLD MOTHER 31
custom have brought to her shameful dishonour in
many evil practices, thus dethroning her from her
rightful place, and bringing degradation both to the
home and to the race. I call upon those who follow
Me to restore her to her throne in the heart of the
home, and to free her to be its glory and its most
precious jewel. In the outer world no less must
w^oman have her honoured place, for the Nation
needs her as a perfect example of the power and
sacrifice of citizenship, purifying and ennobling its
life, and by the Purity of her Shakti' burning away
the dross of selfishness and unbrotherliness. Every
woman must be a Star in the home and in the life of
the Motherland, '
shining more and more into the
Perfect Day.' Where women are honoured and
fulfil their womanhood, there shall reign peace and
prosperity. Then shall the young be happy in the
joy and gladness of youth. Then shall the elders
work as comrades in the service of the land . . .
each contributing to the common stock the special
richness of his individual faith and circumstance.
Then shall the aged bless and fructify with their
wisdom, and depart into their Peace honoured and
rejoicing. Come unto Me, My children, that these
things may be, that in the Presence of our Glorious
Lord the world may enter into the Kingdom prepared
for it.
" Who will help Me to be to My world as I would
wish to be ? Who will help to give to women their
rightful place in life ? . . . Who will reverence
them as mothers should be reverenced, be they
mothers of children, or mothers of the sorrowful,
and of all who are in need. . . .
"What more splendid work for inan than to help
woman reverently to achieve the ,sul)limity of her
womanhood ? What more splendid work foi- woman
than to perform the sacrament of Motherhood oilher
in lier own person, or in the service of a world ail too
1 I.e., the iudvvelling Power of God in her.
82 THE WOIMJ) MCJTIIIOK
motherless. Shall not ovc'!>' woiiuui ho n inolhcr,
either to her own eiiildreii oi' lo My other c-hildrcn,
to those wlio are sturvin^,' Cor wiint of Motherhood ?
If every wcjiiiiiii were active in My «er\ ice, and if
womanhood were honoiiied, all wretchedness, all
misery, all loneliness, all desi)air, would disapijcai",
for there is no room for these where Motherliood
abides in strength and tenderness.
" Our Blessed Lord bids you enter into the world
of llai)piness. . . . As Tie comes to the woild, so
come I. But My call is to the womanliood of the
world and to those who honour womanlujod ; for if
the word of the Lord is heeded b>' the woman, the
world is sure of its salvation. Thercfoio do I call
upon the women of the world, members of My
kingdom. My special care and in whom I dwell, to
manifest Me to the world, to spread My INIotherhood
everywhere, so that Motherhood may be reverenced
as God's most precious gift."'
It was Scaid long ago by a Master of the
Wisdom that wlien woman took hei- rightful
place she would bear Btiddhas and Clirists.
Yet not of herself can she do this. For,
just as " Motlierhood is the fulfilment of
life, the flowering of Divinity, at every stage
of its nnfoldment," in a woman, so is Father-
hood, when rightly understood, the flowering
of the Divinity expressing itself through
men. Parenthood in its highest aspect can
only manifest when men as well as women
understand aright the sacred nature of that
holy oflfice. No woman can " go down into
the valley of the shadow to bring forth
a child" without realising an expansion and
1 " The World Mother, May, 1928.
"
THE WORLD MOTHER 33
upliftmcnfc of consciousness, even if she
goes alone ; but no woman can go down
into it, secure in the I'ealisation of her
husband's intimate understanding, wrapped
round, body and soul, by " tlie guardian wall
of her husband's love "—in the real sense,
taking him with her—^without touching such
heights of bliss, such holy deeps of spiritual
consciousness, that through her the con-
sciousness of her child, her husband and
the race are permanently enriched. No
children in the world excel in beauty and
equilibrium those born of a deep and holy
love. And birth under such conditions,
permanently deepening and enrichening the
consciousness, not only builds into the
woman a deeper and more abiding love for
her man, but builds into father, mother and
child the capacity to understand more fully,
especially through "the wisdom of the heart,"
the mysteries of life, so enabling them to
become more truly " all tilings to all " whom
they contact.
It is only as the sexes rise to mutual
understanding of and reverence for the holy
qualities and capacities of both that the
Path of Perfection can be trodden by either
of them. Isolate the two in sympathy and
understanding, even in aspiration towards
the Path, and both remain spiritually at
a standstill. Only in the recognition of
their mutual interdependence will they
attain the completion of their being. Only
84 THE WORLD MOTHER
throiijj[li Mil cver-grow iii"^' uii(l(Msl;iii(liii^ of
and rcvci'ciH'c for each other can the now
Race be born.
It is for this reason tliat the a|)j)eal of
tho World MotluM* aj)i)lies as much to men
as to women. Deep within every woman,
in her early years at least, is a consciousness
of the lioly nature of tlie work enti'usted to
her as a woman. How long can such a feel-
ing survive before the present attitude of
humanity in general and men in j)articular'?
Yet in the interests of the Race it must
survive, and must dominate the conscious-
ness of both men and wonuMi. And it is
for the bringing about of a real understand-
ing of the matter that the power of Our
Lady is focussed upon the world. For it is
only as this understanding dominates the
minds of men and women that they will be
capable of raising Parenthood to the level
necessary for the birth of those advanced
souls awaiting incarnation in the new Race
about to come into being.
Hence the call of the World Mother is
not destined for women only. True, it is
through the recognition of her holy capacity
for Motherhood and in her coming great
work for the upliftment of the weak and
helpless, that much of the work must be
done—by her, for herself ; but such recogni-
tion will fail of its highest fulfilment if it
comes to her alone, if men do not rise with
her and help her attain —what they also
THE WORLD MOTHER 35
must attain—the right, because highest,
use of all inner and outer forces.
To those who realise their responsibility
to unborn generations, this call of the World
Mother comes as a benediction—opening
the path to more speed}' realisation of the
higher methods of service, the expanding
and enrichment of all they have to give, all
they can do. Such know that in this call
of the Mother of the World there is release
—release from out-grown phases of con-
sciousness, release into the higher phases
of being within themselves.
In the light of all this, would it not be
well if every female Theosophist who is able
to accept the great Idea of the World Mother
would endeavour to make the Presence of
Our Lady as much manifest as is now that
of Her Lord ? As a means to that end the
writer would suggest that all who can should
devote a few moments each morning and
evening to a brief meditation upon Our Lady
and Her Work and thereby endeavour to
make themselves agents, not merely negative
channels but active messengers to the world
to bring about the changes She desires, to
develop Purity, Devotion and Self-sacrifice
as well as the truest Sympathy and the
greatest Love and Compassion. It would
not be at all difficult for anyone who is
accustomed to meditation or prayer to enter
into very definite relation with the World
Mother in this way; and the more there
86 THE WORLD MOTHER
are wlio iiiidortalvo ilw, work tlie greater will
be tlje soluiiie of f^^lorioiis llciiiity, Peaet*,
Love and iiarmoiiy Slie will be able to give
to the world. Altliougli the Theotiophical
Society (mmiioI be coinmit ted as a whole to
this belief, much can be done by individual
TheosophiKls to help the world along theHo
lines, A gieat ix'aceful, healing |)owei', un-
like any oLiier, will stream from the World
Mother thiough all who put themselves in
nieditati\(' touch with Her, and will enrich
and uplift all who contact it. A continuous
and definite stream of blessing would thus
be ever at the service of the world.
It is perhaps peculiarly woinan's work.
Let all such welcome Her into their homes,
making therein a little corner shrine where-
on to keep a picture of Our Lady, and at
which to meditate for a few moments each
morning and evening. This endeavour to
get in touch with the World Mother through
Her picture would quickly bring the aspirant
into rapport with Her and she could then
think of all those who need help and send
to them the healing forces poured out by
Our Lady. In this work of healing, it is
perhaps more efficacious to pronounce the
Name by which She is known to the devotee,
and to affirm, as each person is being helped,
" In the Name of Our Lady, Maria-Isis, and
in the Name of Her Lord and Son, I send
you Peace, Health and Happiness." This
is of course only one formula amongst the
THE WORLD MOTHER 37
many that might well be used ; but each
individual will be able to find his or her
own way of approach and his or her own
method of channelling the healing force,
provided that the proper rapport is made
and the true intent be there.
Such a method will do much to raise the
consciousness andstimulate spiritual growth,
and the time will come when this—added
to the daily endeavour to channel Her bless-
ing to the world—will bring home to each
aspirant the knowledge that they have made
a direct link with Her, and that so long as
they remain faithful Her power will flow
through them for the blessing of the world.
THE BOOK OF GENESIS UNVEILED
liy LEONARD BOSiMAN.
PRICE 3s. Od.'Post Free.
I'ractical Psychohgist. —Those who are familiar with Mr Bosnian's
utterances, spoken or written, will recognise in the puhlication of this
little volume —the first of a series of ten—the fruit of a task begun
—
who shall say when ? Assiduously pursued, patiently wooed with the
incense of aspiration, and ripened in the glow of an unbiased, detached,
but uncomproinisuig mental rectitude. Lot us say at once that in
thi.s, as in all Mr. Bosnian's works, there is that serene, charitable,
but unquenchable passion for Truth that ever seeks the Unity of Idea
in diversity of opinion —albeit he has chosen to labour in a field where
opinion in many disgui,scs has hitherto held undisputed sway. The
Author gives ample evidence of this in his introduction, wherein he
quotes many notable divines, " doctor and saint " replete with diversity
of opinion and "great argument." The closing paragraph of this
introduction is typical of the author's attitude. "The writer, there-
fore, offers the whole of this work with the hope that it will aid
religionists to think for themselycs. If this be accomplished, it will
not matter if the present work be rejected." We should be doing
Mr. Bosman injustice if we pictured him as a mere iconoclast.
Rather is he the magician evoking Light and Order %vhere Darkness
and Chaos reigned. Thus, " Despite the many misunderstandings of
the original Sacred Scriptures on the part of both Eastern and SVestern
translators, and the many mistranslations of the original tongues in
which they were written, the Divine Wisdom has ever been preserved
within it. . ."
OccuU Review. —The book now under discussion can but enhance the
author's high reputation and should prove a boon to all. Mr. Bosman
has searched the heart of Rabbinic, Brahmanic and Gnostic lore, and
his elucidations of the problems in Genesis are illuminating to a degree.
"The Qabalists, the students and interpreters of Divine Wisdom,
whether called Freemasonry, Brahma Vidya, Mystic Christianity,
SufLsm, or Gnosis, read the Scriptures in a peculiar manner. They
had four ways of reading and interpreting that collection of symbols
known as the Old Testament, each symbol having four (some say,
more correctly seven) meanings. The first of those, the literal, super-
ficial manner, was called Pshat, or simple ; this was the way for the
ordinary folk. Next came Ramaz, literally a hint for the student
;
and Darash, meaning inferential, or, perhaps, intuitional, for the
Disciple. For the Sage, there was a final method called, literally,
Secret or Slid. In this estimate, the sage is thus the true Past
Master."
Alas ! how far has the majority fallen from the true reading. How
have narrow theologians obscured the golden altar-fire 1 Mr Bosman
re-institutes the high-priest in the Holy of Holies, and reveals much
of his sacred office.
THE DHARMA PRESS,
16, Oakfield Road, Clapton, London, E. 5.
AMEN: THE KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Brj LEONARD BOSMAN.
PRICE 35. 9d. Post Free.
The New Age, Washington.—Students of the occult will find
much information and mental stimulus in " Amen : The Key to the
Universe," in which the author contributes valuable information
concerning the Sacred Word. Of the interpretations of symbolism
there can be no end and every serious contribution by an earnest
student of the deeper things is welcomed. All power and potentiality
resides in the Ineffable Name, and happy he who solves the riddle.
Co-Mason.—Names, according to Plato, possess "form" which
corresponds to soul, and "matter" which corresponds to body. In
form they participate from nature, in matter they participate of
a substance from position. They arc not only appellations, but in
some sense, images of things. Intellectual effort can usually trace
the roots of a name, but the real problem is to understand why a root
of two or three letters should be linked with a certain idea : why
words should mean exactly what they do mean and nothing else.
Because a word sounds like another word it does not necessarily
derive from the same root or convey the same meaning. In the
ancient languages, such as Hebrew and Greek, names were given
according to the sound-power expressed by the letters. Letterg were
sound-pictures ; the pictures perceptible to the soul energising by
imagination. Mr. Bosman, taking Amen as a key-symbol of the
universe, provides some very stimulating and penetrating suggestions
on that wide subject. There are several Masonic terms and proper
names which would repay investigation on the lines laid down by Mr.
Bosman, and we commend his little volume very heartily to our readers.
Messenger, Chicago.— The complete title of this book is " .4?Heu .
The Key to the Universe In Wliich the Fmidamental Principles of the
Universe are Exi^lained." This seems to be a rather ambitious title,
and especially so for so brief a book as one of 119 pages of large type.
The author, however, is a deep and masterful student who under-
stands the fundamental truths of the universe. Much material
extraneous to the Amen, or at least not apparently connected by the
author, such as Spirit and matter, the Trinity, the Virgin Mother of
the Universe is discussed in a brief way. The discussion upon the
Amen centers itself largely into a deep but illuminating etymological
or philological treatise on the meanings of the various letters of the
alphabet and their combinations, rather than a treatise on the potency
of occult sound. The book is far from uninteresting because it casts
a scholarly flood of light on a subject on which comparatively little
has been written—the meaning of letters and words.
THE DHARMA PRESS,
16, Oakfield Road, Clapton, London, E. 5.
NOV 30 1993
^S/TY OF ^^£
^
v^
A
