{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__beck___the_way_of_power.pdf","mytitle":"The Way Of Power","mylang":"de"}
. '
..~ .... -. - .. ._. "- . . - .
~he 7fuayof Tower
Studies in the Occult
by
L. c5L\dams
GJ3eck
···!E. Barrington!· ..
eosmopolitan613ook
t;orporation
:}\(g.w
York v- MCMX X VIll
Copyright, 1927, 1928, by
L. Adams Beck
All rights reserved in-
cluding that of trans-
lation into foreign
languages, including
the Scandinavian
~ ~ ~ $
Printed in the U. S. A.
------~~ r - -
BooksbyL.ADAMS BECK
'?5heCJeouse
of CJulfilment
C-Oreams
and C-Oelights
'?5heI(gy of C-Oreams
'?5he:l'{inthVibration
'?5heCf'erfume
of the '1\9,inbow
'?5heSplendorof c:5\sia
'?5he'?5reasure
of CJeo
'?5he'"Wayof Stars
PREFACE
A book of this sort has so many debts to ac-
knowledge that it should be thickly set with notes
and references, and yet in writing for the general
reader this is not possible. Therefore I can only
say, speaking generally, how much I owe to many
and great thinkers from those of three millenniums
ago down to the present time. I am often asked
to recommend books on these subjects, but it is
difficult to do so, for with regard to many of the
Indian thinkers on whom so much depends their
invaluable writings, even when translated, are
hampered with Sanskrit terms very difficult for
those unused to them, and modern writers some-
times assume more patience and perhaps knowl-
edge than the average man with all the prP.occu-
pations of life has time to possess. Yet he may
wish to know. This book is therefore an effort to
interpret, to suggest, and no one knows better
than myself what a contracted statement it is of
what a great subject. Yet I venture to hope
there are those to whom my experiences and con-
v
VI PREFACE
clusions, as I felt my way, may be of the same
value that they have been to myself. And this is
why I have stated them in a detail which may be
misunderstood as egoism.
L. Adams Beck,
(E. Barrington.)
'&he
7iJayof crower
~(._/
Studies in the <9ccult
CHAPTER I
"The Occult of Today Is the Science of
Torrwrrow."
I HAVE CHOSEN THIS MOTTO FOR MY BOOK
relating to the occult, for it is an attempt to
describe the (at first) very small experiences and
knowledge which Jed me to see the reality of the
true occult world lying like an almost uncharted
country behind the thick jungle of fraud and
charlatanry, and which have led me also to state
in comparative detail what I found on my jour-
ney and the conclusions it compelled. I use the
illustration of "going through the Looking
Glass" for two excellent reasons. Firstly, every-
one knows that remarkable story of Alice, dear
to two or three generations, and how she passed
through the Looking Glass to the queer upside-
down sort of country behind it. Secondly, few
people realize that the book is a wonderful para-
ble of how you can get through the mere reflec-
tions of things into the reality behind them if
2 THE WAY OF POWER
only you know the way. Carroll, who was a
great mathematician, knew of the undiscovered
country from that point of view: I found a very
different road and as a matter of fact there are
almost as many roads as there are people. The
. country behind the Looking Glass,, generally
called the Occult world, is reality, and the daily
world we live in is Shadow-land though the re-
flections look so hard a'Ild bright and real that
they take most of us in.
The world is a great mirror. A man sees him-
self in it as the foremost figure and around him
the persons and things which make his surround-
ings. The Japanese have called it the Mirror of
the Passing Show-an uncommonly good name.
Seeing it with our eyes we take this reflection
for reality and are quite content to believe our
senses and go copifortably or uncomfortably on
our way. Very few people know what blind
feelers the five senses are-feeble, faulty, mis-
taken, and yet (until we know better) our only
means of approach to anything outside the prison
of ourselves. We pity a blind, deaf, dumb man,
but are much in the same case ourselves. It is
only a question of degree, and the microscope,
telephone, and so forth carry us a few steps far-
THE WAY OF POWER 3
ther into the dark. They are simply extensions.
That is what makes the occult world so amazingly
interesting.
We see, no longer blinded by our eyes,
And hear, no longer deafened by our ears-
which is distinctly good business in such a fas-
cinating universe.
Like others I lived in perfect satisfaction
with the gay ordinary reflections in the Looking
Glass World until the first doubt overtook me in
childhood. My mother, who had trained me to
be perfectly fearless in matters of the imagina-
tion, told me a strange experience which had
befallen her and her sisters and it set me
thinking.
Her father owned many ships. A little dance
was to be given, and she and her sister were prac-
ticing some dance music two evenings before,
with a third sister to turn the leaves-three happy
girls. The drawing-room was a very large one
with dividing folding doors thrown back. As
.they played, the standing sister suddenly caught
my mother's hands and the tune crashed in dis-
cord. Leaning round the folding door was a
man roughly dressed in a thick short coat. He
called out authoritatively "Stop the music," and,
4 THE WAY OF PpWER
as they thought, drew back ·behind the folding
doors and was gone. I should explain that only
two of the three saw. One saw nothing, which
i~ curious but not unusual in such cases. Two
saw and heard. My mother said that no thought
of what is called the supernatural struck them,
but they were frightened because a strange sud-
den man in the house when it is sliut up for the
night is not altogether a pleasant visitation. Still,
it might have been someone to see their father
on business. The three rushed into the dining
room with their tale and behold tpeir father was
dozing in his armchair at the head of the empty
table after dinner, his glass of punch beside him.
When the house was searched and nothing found
they could not explain the man though they could
not dismiss him from their minds ; and the dance
arrangements went on until next evening. Then,
as again they were rattling off their music,
came interruption. My grandfather put his
head round the folding doors exactly as the
stranger had done. . . . "Stop the music," he
said. "One of the ships has gone down with all
hands. There can be no 'dance tomorrow." The
man they had seen sounded, he thought, very like
the captain of the lost ship. Th~y could get no
THE WAY OF POWER 5
nearer to a clue but the thing was as certain to
the two from whom I heard it as the sight of each
other.
Now when one hears a personal experience like
this from people one knows do not lie, it is either
dismissed as hallucination, or makes an impres-
sion coloring all opinion. I turned it over and
over in a very young mind and accepted it as
what people called "a ghost," but that did not
last. A ghost is only a symptom. Why did
ghosts come to some people and not to others?
And, if they came at all, from where and for
what purpose? Was their country far or near?
I had no fear, but deep curiosity, and from that
moment knew that the shining surface of the
mirror of the world may be jarred by quite other
1·eflections than those one reckons on. But the
question in my mind was, Where do they come
from? Is there another world beside this which
is their domain 1 Even then, I did not think this
covered all the ground.
My next experience, a personal one, was
startling. My grandmother was strongly clair-
voyant. Though I did not even know the word
then, I knew that when she dreamed a thing it
had an odd way of coming true; and always in
----------
6 THE WAY OF POWER
the disagreeable things no one likes to face. In
particular, she had an ominous recurrent dream
which was followed by the Unpleasant as surely
as a dog follows his master. I hated that dream,
but set it down to some crank in grandmothers
from which young people had nothing to fear.
It coincided more or less. That was all, but it
had a kind of interest difficult to escape.
I was very young and. in the rather conceitedly
skeptical stage of that youth of whom the great
Master of Trinity, Cambridge, remarked, "We
are none of us iµfallible ; not even the youngest
of us." However, one morning she came down
to breakfast with a very grave face and began
at once.
"A very curious thing happened last night.
No, not a dream. I was a.wake, and I saw in my
room a tall man in a turban and a sort of robe.
He knocked three times on the wall. I saw him
do it, and somehow I knew it meant the three-
syllabled name of a place and that some terrible
misfortune had happened there'. Mark my
words, we shall hear something from Bermuda."
A very near relation was holding a high posi-
tion there at the time and for a moment I was
startled, but youth is always a little over-clever
THE WAY OF POWER 7
and I said arrogantly, "As nobody in Bermuda
wears a turban that doesn't seem _
likely!" and
went my way in peace.
She said no more; and letters came from Ber-
muda and all was well and I triumphed. But
we.had not done with the gods. At the earliest
possible moment news came that her nephew, a
young officer in the army, loved by her as a son,
had been stabbed to death in the bazaar at Kan-
dahar by an Indian lunatic. The man, who had
apparently never seen him before, came up be-
hind and drove a knife deep down between his
shoulders and so an end.
Then indeed I began to think, for I had
known my cousin well; he was a real person to
me and here was a thing done before my eyes.
How had this strange message fled overseas from
India (for the time matched) ? Why had it not
come to his mother? Why had my grandmother
misread it? Why, when my cousin had been pro-
moted and we all were glad, had that news come
in a slow letter? ,Why had the murderer, for it
seemed it must be he, anno1¥1ced it to a woman
he had never heard of? Then there must be
some natural affinity with misfortune in this
mysterious kind of intelligence! And had God
8 THE WAY OF POWER
or the Devil anything to do with it? And what
good did it do?
Youth can think when it chooses, and no
answer given by the elders to the questions I
propounded met the facts to my satisfaction.
They didn't kno'\\'.', They retired on "coin-
cidence," but I reflected that a world where such
coincidences happen would really be such a
miracle in itself that it only brought the difficulty
a step nearer. And again when, not long after,
another case happened which I could verify-
the mother of a sailor hearing his voice crying
for help, and finding that that night his boat had
been overturned on the way to his ship and his
life all but lost-it was clear to me that behind
the well-polished mirror into which we all look
for our impressions of the world was a dark hin-
terland where very strange forces played or
worked on lines of their own, having no relation
at all to anything we know and yet with a queer
wireless which they used with people whose
aerials were ready to tune in. How and why ?
But I called it the private telegraph wire, for
wireless had not yet been reflected on the Mirror
of the Passing Show-the world we lived in.
So then I began to read hungrily, untiringly,
THE WAY OF POWER 9
and for years such books as those of Podmore,
Myers, Flammarion, and many more-the ad-
ventures and experiments of Sir William
Crookes and the leading men of the Society for
Psychical Research in England deserving spe-
cial mention because they were so flawlessly
honest and possessed by the desire for truth.
They led me gradually into divergent paths, the
magic of the ancient world and of the medieval
times, and still I got no light. The more I
studied the subject, the more impossible seemed
any theory that the spirits of the dead should
return to communicate with the living for the
purpose of uttering the platitudes attributed to
them. For one thing, these books admitted
that the phantasms of the living could be seen
also, and as a girl my own eyes had seen the
appearance of a relation then at a distance pass
through a room when I was alone. Nothing
happened as a result, but I had seen and real-
ized that my :first belief that these things were al-
ways connected with death and misfortune was
mistaken. And as to any instruction from de-
parted spirits worth the paper it is written on,
from that day to this I have never heard of or
read any remark from a supposed departed
10 THE WAY OF POWER
spirit which is not platitude pure and simple.
Even the spirits of the mightiest are not exempt
from this unlucky law of platitude and become
as tedious and obvious as the rest. But I came
to the conclusion that when a very large amount
of fraud is excluded there remains certain evi-
dence of some strange forces at work in some
of these dubiou _
s manifestations and materiali za-
tions. But what? And where could any sort of
evidence be got hold of which would lead to a
clue?
Meanwhile I had some inte resting personal ex-
periences as the years went by. I touch briefly
on a few of these. I was staying with the mother
and sisters of a very near relation who was on a
voyage. One night I dreamed I saw him limping
along the deck in great pain; I told them at
breakfast and met with the usual laughter. But
I wrote, and-yes-he had fallen down a hatch-
way, had not meant to tell us, and how had I
known? I developed too a curious faculty of
sensing some people's thoughts if I held their
hands. A tingle seemed to run up my arm from
theirs and then I knew to a large extent what was
in their minds, and this applied also to things
they had held for a while. This did not come off
THE WAY OF POWER 11
with everyone. There had to be some underlying
connecting force, and one might :find that in a
stranger and miss it in people of one's own blood.
It was interesting but I gave it up very soon, for
physically it was wearying and I dislike play-
ing about with forces I do not understand. At
the entreaty of a friend now dead I attended one
seance, saw what was considered an extremely
:fine program of materializations, voices and so
forth, heard the usual ~xplanations, recognized
glimpses of the unknown force. But that
approach I considered neither scientific nor
spiritual. A good deal of it seemed grotesque.
I never went to another. There ' were things I
could not explain, but it carried no conviction
whatever and the semi-religious flavor was un-
pleasant.
But still, behind all these changing scenes lay
the belief in power, uncharted, misunderstood,
played with, but-power! And such experiences
brushed me here and there with passing wings as
if on their own errands and left me startled but
ignorant.
Then on a day very memorable for myself I
stumbled on books relating to the thought of
Asia, but especially India. But does one ever
12 THE WAY OF POWER
stumble? Is not everything that befalls a man
the direct, inevitable result of his own deeds and
thoughts? I read in astonishment, realizing that
here was a nation which had made what we call
"the other world" its chief and engrossing study.
In other words, the wise and great among the
Indian people moved with ease in the mysterious
World behind the Looking Glass and found it so
much more interesting than the Mirror of the
Passing Show that they really concerned them-
selves very little with the latter and gave its
prizes the go-by. They had for three thousand
years and more devoted themselves to the study
of the soul and its powers as, let us say, the
Western nations have devoted themselves to the
literature of love, and they had done this to the
exclusion of the dreams and delights which tempt
us in the West and engross us in that polished
surf ace reflecting us and our doings in home and
mart as the be-all and end-all, until we never
dream that anything lies behind the Looking
Glass which can interest or concern us. And
that belief is the state of mind called by wise
men Materialism, and when it possesses a nation
it points straight down the road to national and
individual ruin.
THE WAY OF POWER 13
Then for the first time I began to see glimpses
of light on the horizon, for I saw that these
Indian people spoke of a law which could be
tested and followed and that the "occult" like
all the rest of the universe may have its being
within the limits of law. Their books said:
"Yes, there are mighty forces at work all
round us, and by obeying certain rules some of
us know how to bend them and make them
obedient. When you understand how to make
the wheels go round, then these things are no
more wonderful than telegraphy. As a matter
of fact there is nothing supernatural. There are
only things which don't happen commonly be-
cause the rules are not known."
Here was an astonishing thought to meet at
large! I resolved to begin at the beginning and
study some of their doings before I probed their
reason. Fate threw in my way a connection by
marriage, a naval man, who on board his ship at
Bombay had had a visit from a wandering Hindu
who offered to show a sight the sahibs could
never have seen before. He agreed, and stand-
ing a great brass vessel of water on the deck the
man stood off at a great distance and in the
sight of many people beckoned, and the water
14 THE WAY OF POWER
rose snake-like in the jar and crept over the edge
and slipped down the side a bright snake of 1
water, and so along the deck until he halted it
with a sign, released it with a heckon, and so on
until it crept to his feet and there dissolved into
a pool of common water, leaving the jar empty.
I
I asked, "How did you explain it?" and the
captain answered, "I couldn't. It couldn't have
happened, but all the same he made a lot of us
see it."
"But that kind of mass-hypnotism could be al-
most as wonderful as the reality," I suggested.
"A really terrible power for good or ill! And
besides you saw the empty jar. What about
that?"
He laughed and gave it up. But I pondered.
What was the law?
My own turn came to go to India, not credu-
lous at all in the ordinary sense of the word-
quite prepared to meet with fraud ,and the
sleight-of-hand man, but still confident that be-
hind the Looking Glass lies the world where
things happen not at all according to our logic
but on a very different logic of its own. You
can see that mthe brilliant "Through the Look-
ing Glass." First comes the punishment, then
THE WAY OF POWER 15
the crime. The White Queen begins to scream
and cuts her finger afterwards, and the part may
be greater than the whole. I saw that our little
maxims end with the Looking Glass and have
no currency behind it; that it has its laws.
There was at one of the most sacred towns a
man who was said to perform the mango trick ex-
tremely well, and we invited him to sit on the
veranda of the little .hotel and there, under my
very eyes, to show his skill. He sat at my feet,
he planted the mango stone in a pot at my feet,
then sitting far off he returned and raised the
covering at intervals, holding it at arm's length
and touching neither pot nor plant, that I might
see the growth.
Finally, when the plant had grown to a height
of over two feet I picked two leaves from it and
sent one to a friend at home. And the cm·ious
thing is that though I know I sent this and a
friend standing beside me saw the whole incident,
the man to whom I sent the leaf declares to this
day he never received it. He returned all my
letters in case I should wish to use them as a
travel record and among them is the one in which
I speak of the leaf, but he never saw it. Could
it have dropped out and how? A mango leaf is
16 THE WAY OF POWER
not a small one. I do not know. I have seen
that same performance several times since and
done on obvious lines of juggling. The differ-
ence can be seen and felt very easily.
CHAPTER II
IN INDIA AND CEYLON I HAD PERSONAL
instances of this force which develops itself in
powers that transcend the senses. In Benares
a wandering fortune-teller came into the veranda
of the little hotel where I had just arrived, un-
known. Liking something about the man's face
I consented that he should read my hand. It
was a strange experience in more ways than one.
He did not touch it; it lay, palm upward, on my
knee, and he stooped and read it with unblink-
ing black eyes.
"This mem-sahib writing."
I said: "All mem-sahibs write."
"Yes-knowing that. This mem-sahib write-
book."
I had never written a book in my life and had
no more expectation of writing one than he had.
Articles on health subjects had been my only con-
tribution to the gaiety of nations. So I shook
my head. He doggedly repeated the assertion,
"This mem-sahib write book," and went on with
17
18 THE WAY OF POWER
the most singularly accurate description of the
events of my past life. I do not mean the in-
timate thoughts but the events. One can
scarcely imagine anything stranger than in a
place so foreign (until one has grown to love it)
to see the past unrolling before one, touched into
life by the hand of a wandering fortune-teller.
And again I thought, "How is it that they get
·in touch?" for by this time I knew very well
that discounting all frauds and fakes and guesses
there are persons who can undoubtedly read
events quite otherwise than by the senses. At
the time I was watching with some interest for
the failure of a prediction made to me by a
Western seer before I had left London on my
journey to India. Its failure, because, though
he had predicted it as a certainty, humanly
speaking it was impossible it should take place.
We had met on a business matter before I
left London, and sudde:n;1y, sweeping beyond
material matters as was his strange power occa-
sionally , and fixed in gazing on the unseen, he
said in that voice which seems to come from very
far behind , the Mirror of the Passing Show:
"Things will not be as you think in India. I
see a very important change in your intentions.
THE WAY OF POWER 19
The event which will determine them will take
place at Christmas time. I see the exact circum-
stances which will enable you to continue your
explorations in the Orient for a very much longer ,
time than you have arranged."
I said it was impossible. I asked for the
description of the unknown events and it was
given without hesitation. . In my heart I set the
whole matter down as one of those incalculable
errors of the clear-sight which I had noted before,
giving them the effect of a scientific communi-
cation ignorantly understood. But again the
agencies of the World behind the Looking Glass
knew their business better than I. Without my
own agency the plan I had made for India was
swept out of being, and on the succeeding Christ-
mas Day events culminated in the possibility of
my continuing what had become my work in
Asia without any obstacle. And this was the
more singular because I had clearly realized by
that time that if one wanted to understand the
thought of Asia in these esoteric matters it must
be studied in Burma, Ceylon, Java, China, and
Japan as well as in India, and of this there had
seemed no possibility. Now the way lay straight
before me to all this exploration and long after-1
20 THE WAY OF POWER
though I did not dream it then, to my writing
the books which the fortune-teller foresaw, nom-
inally by looking in my hand, really by a force
tuning the vibrations between himself and me
until each responded to the same stimulus. In
other words, that event which I had believed jm-
possible made me a student of the innermost side
of occult sci~nce and also made me a writer every
one of whose books, whether as L. Adams Beck
or E. Barrington, is engaged with the Mirror of
the Passing Show and leading up to the percep-
tion of what lies behind it; the irony of life as it
presents itself to those who have no psychic per-
ception and its understanding by those who have.
I pause here for a moment to note the effect
on my mind and daily life of the certitude that
a very different world from the one which our
senses propose to us really lies about us and that
we move in it in ignorance as complete as that of
cats or dogs in a library, surrounded by all the
wisdom of the ages yet unable not only to taste
it but even \o guess that it exists. I had not
reasoned this belief out as yet. I did not see in
the least how it could be, though I felt blindly
that it must certainly be so. There was no other
way of accounting for the phenomena I had
THE WAY OF POWER 21
myself observed. So I resolved that I would de-
vote myself to collecting and studying by the
light of my own experience all possible evidence.
It is of no use to cling only to one's own ex-
periences, for they are very apt to run in one
channel and to blind one to other real experi-
ences. But I realized what a jungle of fraud,
folly and mirage lay before me and was deter-
mined it should not be my only preoccupation,
and that a healthy natural life, with what are
called "outside interests," must be the accom-
paniment of this study. I thought it peculiarly
necessary that there should be no fanaticism, no
eagerness to believe. Our wishes, however ar-
dent, are no guarantee of truth or even of hope.
"Nor does our being weary prove that there
is rest." I can truly say my wish was only to
ascertain the facts in a difficult problem and not
to deduce any moralities from it. That latter
desire is an almost inescapable trap in the path
of truth-seeking. But I saw that one must read,
mark, learn, and inwardly digest with keen alert-
ness of brain and a something beyond, which as
yet I did not understand. Thus I had no axe
to grind. I did not wish at all to assure myself
of immortality or to console anyone else by prom-
22 THE WAY OF POWER
ising it to him. ~ was by no means sure from
Western teachings as to immortality that any
sensible person need desire it, and though I be-
lieve in it now it is on very different grounds.
Thus my attitude was much the same as when,
a child, I studied Euclidean geometry. It was
a fascinating game. It could not appear on the
surface to matter very much that the sum of
three angles of a triangle was equal to two right
angles, yet I was taught if it were otherwise the
world as we conceive it would be quite other than
it is. Might not something of.the same be argued
of what interested me now? I still think this
was a fortunate attitude for beginning my in-
vestigation though I now know that more is
needed at a later stage. But I certainly thought
that if I could trace these facts to their source
some conclusions as to life and death would need
revision and that the logical conclusions accepted
as basic facts might be thrown seriously out of
gear, though how I could not tell. It was clear
that many people who possess these powers in a
small way use them quite carelessly and indeed
unconsciously; and this seemed both interesting
and encouraging for it was exactly the same
spirit in which many years ago people watched
THE WAY OF POWER 23
the magnet and other natural forces at work and
drew no conclusions whatever. Probably it was
chance, they thought-but anyhow a trifle. That
was sufficient. But to me these small manifesta·
tions seemed indicative of something vast, not
terrifying in the least, but with surprising possi·
bilities if one could get the hang of it. Such had
been the result these earlier people scorned.
So I began to collect evidence from the people
with whom I came in contact in India and re·
solved that this should be my special study, little
foreseeing to what conclusions it would lead me.
And here I must mention another factor which
I believe has a most important bearing on these
problems though many people will laugh the
suggestion to scorn. ·
Early in life instinct had pushed me to the re·
linquishing of many foods in common use--
among them, meat of all sorts, fish, soups, pud·
dings, cakes, richly flavored foods and such
drinks as tea, coffee, cocoa, and of course any·
thing alcoholic. I find it difficult to say whether
this instinct is a cause or effect of what I will
call the psychic temperament. lt may be a
little of both. I believe now that the tendency
occurs at a certain stage of development in psy·
24 THE WAY OF POWER
chic evolution and has some strongly marked
results. Be that as it may it will be found that
in India, which may be regarded as the very
fountainhead of the si,ddhi,s or occult powers,
it is thought a necessity for the serious _
student
that the foods should consist of the simplest and
the most natural things that can be had, and the
less cooking the better. For myself for many
years I have lived upon fruit, salads, cheese,
eggs, and milk or water with or without fruit
juice as drinks and I sincerely believe that this
simplicity of life has helped me enormously phys-
ically, intellectually, and in spiritual perception;
and I may say this with more courage because to
bring the body to heel is the counsel of all the
highest forms of religious belief. I own I am a
little inclined to doubt the perception of those
who profess to be authorities in matters psychic
and spiritual and yet drug themselves with sub-
stances which cloud the brain and body. The
subconscious self is independent of brain-sight,
I know, but yet the body and brain are instru-
ments through which we are obliged to register
the conclusions of the subconscious and for ex-
cellent reasons, and if those instrun1ents are not
kept in the best working order there is as much
THE WAY OF POWER 25
loss as if one attempted to see through a clouded
telescope. I regard the simplest for~s of living
as being undoubtedly best for the health of the
body and therefore necessary for the brain,
which is the registering instrument of the psyche
in us. It has also been recognized by all the
faiths and by the medical science of the present
day and others as an aid to morality and to the
self-control without which it is most dangerous
to have anything to do with what is called the
occult. But I shall discuss this side of the ques-
tion in more detail later.
So it seemed to me that all the circumstances
of my life had fitted me for attacking this prob-
lem.in a level-headed way-neither credulous nor
taking experiences on trust nor as a rabid oppo-
nent. I may say I have had experiences put be-
fore me very imposingly 'backed which I felt
obliged to reject because I believed that the
percipients were fitted neither to see nor to
record their sights.
Having said this I will return to the evidence
I have collected, touched here and there by my
own psychic adventures,
CHAPTER III
IN THE FffiST CH.APTER OF THIS BOOK I HAVE
spoken of the science of the occult as standing on
the tripod ·of the psychic, intellectual and physi-
cal and I might have said much more on all three,
as India has done in her great teachings. But in
such matters it is wise to be extremely practical
and to begin at the beginning and with some-
thing entirely in one's own control; and this can
scarcely be said either of the psychic or of the
intellectual, for both are more or less conditioned
by the stage of evolution reached in their
development, whereas with common sense and
intelligent suggestion one can begin at any
moment to improve the powers of the third per-
son of that strange trinity which is man-namely,
the body-and thereby begin to clear the
channel through which force flows to the other
two. I do not deny that people of frail or
crippled physique have had strong psychic and
intellectual perception, but it is in spite of the
physical disability, not because of it; and had
26 I
THE WAY OF POWER 27
their bodies been in the same efficient working
order as (say) the reflectors of an astr.onomical
instrument they would have had clearer and
more coherent results, less disturbed with the
storms and vibrations which interrupt connec-
tion. It is a fact proved by age-long experience
that the body embruted and degraded by intem-
perate living and misuse of the sensual pleasures
completely blocks the way to the evolution of
intellectual and psychic growth:
The Lord let the house of a brute to the soul of a man,
And the man said, "Am I your debtor?"
, And the Lord-"Not yet; but make it as clean as you can,
And then I will let you a better."
In other words, to work without the co-operation
of the body is to be perpetually standing on tip-
toe in an unnatural attitude which deflects atten-
tion to itself. Also, happy people are much more
likely to do the best work in psychic science.
Misery has a driving force which sometimes
wrings fine intellectual and artistic work out of
men as an escape-valve from its pressure, and be-
cause ill-health is misery a man like Lombroso
can point to certain brain and body cripples who
have had what he calls genius. But for the highest
forms of art, serene and sunny consciousness of
28 THE WAY OF POWER
peace and power is the atmosphere for the most
enduring work, and this applies a thousand£ old
to psychic wisdom, where, historically, are seen
immortal results attained by those who have
made the body a clear window through which the
inward light can shine.
Therefore health of the body, which includes
that transmitter the brain, is of immense impor-
tance for people who wish to attain high results in
the study of the psychic, commonly called the
occult, and it is plain wisdom to neglect no means
of attainment, especially the fundamental one
of a body trained to co-operation instead of
hindrance.
To those who have experienced this advantage
it is really like watching a dance of lunatics to
see how people apparently otherwise competent
to pursue the business of life treat their bodies.
Women who consider the possession of physical
beauty the chief business of life as means to the
only end they are capable of understanding de-
stroy it as it were wilfully, withering its brief
blossom by every means in their power. They
eat foods fatal to the circulation and mechanism
of the body, coarsening their skins till all the
raddling and rouging in the world only accen-
THE WAY OF POWER 29
tuates the mischief, dulling the luster of their
eyes and hair, driving their bodies into the re-
bellion of excessive fat or leanness at ages when
they should still be beautiful as figures on a
Greek frieze. Men to whom pellucid clearness of
brain is wealth or power, vital to all their hopes
and interests, cloud it with nicoti.ne and alcohol,
darken it with gross and mistaken feeding.
Since the brain is part of the body and the
nervous system is the first to cry out against
such usage one may safely say that men and
women suffering from the results of such folly,
are very ill qualified to run the world's business.
When Carlyle wrote th at every sick man was
a scoundrel he was with characteristic violence
overstating a case which does not need strength-
ening, and there is something to be said for the
point of view in Butler's brilliant "Erewhon"
where people suffering from physical disability
are brought before a jury to be judged and con-
demned accordingly . The Roman who spok.e of
"a healthy mind in a healthy body" knew what
he was talking of. And with Carlyle I marvel
at what men suffer, not at what they lose.
In the study of the Occult a healthy body and
clear brain are even more necessary than in the
30 THE WAY OF POWER
affairs of daily life, because in that strange world
we are explorers. It is ours, yet unknown to us,
forgotten, uncharted , in some ways dangerous.
Though the world is really our own we are as
little at home in it at first as the long-lost heir
when he returns to his kingdom and finds the
scepter strange and alarming in hands used to
the spade. Anp.it is largely because they have
often lacked this physical calm and poise that
we are apt to call those men mad who have pene-
trated behind the deceptive Looking Glass of our
senses and with half-dazed eyes ,broµght back
word of the strange conditions beyond. They
are very strange because in the world of reality
the values are not ours, our great things are
small, our small things great and all our logic
baffled. But the pioneer need not necessarily be
unbalanced. Take an historical example of what
is probably the greatest pioneering fact in the
history of psychics; the one which has shaped the
lives and destinies of more uncounted millions
than any other. No one has called the Buddha
either nerve-broken or insane, though after that
tremendous psychic experience which gained him
the name of the Enlightened One he returned
from the world of true perception with teachings
THE WAY OF POWER 31
perfectly staggering to the opinions concerning
life and death held by the world at large. And
the foremost reason of his triumph in enabling
men to discern what really matters from what
does not matter a cent was his perfect sanity and
cool clarity of brain backing the highest psychic
perception and all based upon a disciplined body.
That was a thing all men could understand and
honor. He had tried luxury and had renounced
its poisons. He had tried a cruel asceticism and
had cast aside its follies, and so experienced he
taught a wise temperance that the body attaining
perfect poise may not thrust its revolt in the
face of the spirit. According to his doctrine the
psychic powers are sooner or later within the
reach of every man who follows a certain plainly
defined path. They come as inevitably and nor-
mally as breathing, but like all other powers are
to be used with caution and wisdom and by no
means as a show-off or an end in themselves.
This wisdom he had learned from the ancient
Indian teaching and his own great experience.
It is the art of seeing life steadily and whole both
within and outside the perception of our physical
senses and it cannot be completely mastered un-
til the subjugation and co-operation of the body ·
32 THE WAY OF POWER
are made part of the coherent scheme of things.
Real life cannot be treated as a thing of little
colored patches. It must be seen in its entirety.
I know that to acquire a perfectly working cir-
culation of the blood and mastered appetites may
seem a lowly beginning for a great quest but
there is an Indian parable which illustrates the
value of the infinitely little. A prisoner in a
great tower directs his wife to bring to its foot
a beetle , a silk thread and a little honey. She is
to attach the silk to the beetle, to smear his horns
with honey and set him free to climb the tower,
following the scent of the honey. He does it. A
twine is attached to the silk thread, a rope to
the twine and the prisoner is freed. The in-
finitely little has conquered.
So the ancient wisdom of India perceived long
·ago, what we are dimly beginning to guess, that
if a man desires to storm the strange world of
psychic attainment safely he must lay his founda-
tions on the earth as he sees it and make the body
his co-operator and not his trampled or pam-
pered slave. For, as says one of the greatest of
the ancient books: "He who fasts and he who
eats too much, he who does not sleep and he who
sleeps too much, he who works too much and he
THE WAY -OF POWER 33
who does not work,-none of these can be
adepts." In other words one cannot acquire dis-
crimination, insight and instinct without making
a scientific study of the means to that end.
I gained the beginning of this knowledge by
experience years before I knew anything of the
way charted out in Asia. Fortunately for my-
self I suffered in youth from violent headaches
which obliged me to consider whether there was
no means of escape from facing life with such a
miserable handicap. Doctors failed in finding
their cause or cure and at last I resolved I would
give up one food after another in hope of track-
ing down the offender. I did this and have never
had a trace of headache from that day to this,
though with as many opportunities for it as most
people can boast of.
I was groping blindly for escape from bodily
suffering and had not the faintest notion that this
change would influence my life psychically and
intellectually. It would be handsomer if I could
say I had done it from the most exalted motives,
but it is perhaps more impressive as showing the
colorless and impassive action of law in these
matters that such a very ordinary impulse should
lead one into such unforeseen paths. For when
34 THE WAY OF POWER
I came in touch later with the wisdom of the
Orient I knew that by a very little hole I had
crept in through the thorny hedge that guards
the ancient wisdom. It was a tiny beginning,
but a beginning.
I do not sa:y for a moment that the world
of true wonders lies open before one who has
so entered. Life is not like that in any of its
spheres .... Physically, intellectually and psy-
chically it is always a case of evolution, and in
evolution you cannot jump any of the links. I
will try to tell as simply and truly as I can ex-
actly what the process s~emed to me to be as it
worked itself out.
First there was the relief from a crippling dis-
ability. That is always joy. Indeed it has been
said there is no joy in the world so great as the
relief from suffering, which though it may be an
exaggerated statement represents a common ex-
perience. I knew at once that a problem was
solved and had left me free to grapple with
others, and realizing that the body is like a boat
obedient to the rudder I had a passionate desire
to see how much .could be done with it by wise
steering. It was more difficult then than now
because within the last few years the doctors have
THE WAY OF POWER 35
begun to pay some attention to the preventive
aspects of disease and one can have advice. For
me it was a case of pioneering, but I did not turn
back for a moment.
Here I may be asked what I did. I gave up
in one gesture, so to speak, meat of every kind,
including poultry and :fish. I also surrendered
tea, coffee, and cocoa. Alcoholic drinks I had
never used. I was ignorant that this sudden
change of habit was a risk and it did not hurt me,
but I should always advise against any but a very
gradual change. For a time I lived on cooked
vegetables, much cereal, and an abundance of
milk, a mistaken diet though infinitely better
than the one I had left. But gradually the
mysterious wisdom of the body asserted itself
and I evolved a diet of raw fruit, salads, nuts, a
little cheese, eggs not abundantly used, and for
drinks water and sometimes milk. Everyone
cannot take milk so I may mention that with
lemon juice dropped into it and stirred while
dropping (in the proportion of about half a
lemon to a tumbler of milk) it is a very refresh-
ing and digestible drink. I took very little cereal,
and gave up cakes, puddings, pastries and all
suga red foods, and I have lived ever since in this
/
36 THE WAY OF POWER
way, eating only two or three times a day and
never between meals. I tried twice in view of
going to a country where it is dangerous to eat
salads to substitute a little fish but it was such a
failure from every point of view that I gave it
up. I may say I have no use for the so-called
"simple feeding" which demands all sorts of
meatless dishes, elaborately cooked, and con-
tinues the drugs of tea and coffee. It is better
to get down to bed-rock if you really want to
make a success, and one gets to like these simple
foods so much as to think it strange that every-
one is not content with them.
And now I will say what these did for me. I
had ra.ther an inclination to overweight. That
disappeared and I touched the normal weight
for my height and have kept to it. With this
came activity and energy of mind and body which
have never left me. I had been a little inclined
to drowsy and lethargic reverie. Doing now be-
came more interesting, but it was doing with a
clear purpose ahead for I realized that I was
gaining weapons and sharpening them for the
adventure of life. My circulation was clear. I
no longer suffered from cold hands and feet, and
instead of pallor, developed a healthy color. I
THE WAY OF POWER 37
noticed that even my hair gathered luster, as one
may see a sick dog's roughened staring coat
smooth itself and shine, with wise treatment. I
could walk distances almost incredible when I
remembered how the least fatigue had ended
formerly in sick headache. The next result was
that I began to realize in natural sequence that
though cutting out certain food-poisons is the
foundation stone of the palace of health the
building asks for such tools as right exercise,
right breathing, right use of hot and cold water
for drinking and baths, pure air and sunshine,
and all these things I studied and practiced pa-
tiently and for a while believed this bodily health
was all that mattered for life. That was natural,
for I saw clearly the instant advantage it gave
over people who had not sufficiently grasped its
value to make sacrifices for it-sacrifices which
one can afford to laugh at in view of the gain.
Then came one of the penalties of ignorance.
I lost strength and discovered I had been living
on capital instead of income. In other words I
had not been eating the necessary ration of the
tissue-forming foods. This may sometimes be an
excellent beginning for it runs off the poisons
accumulated by wrong feeding, but it is always
38 THE WAY OF POWER
risky and should be closely watched. So it
became necessary to take the thing as a serious
study that I might understand food v~lues and
their relation to sedentary and active occupa-
tions. All this can be done for one now, but I
have never Tegretted that I had to work through
it myself. The knowledge was driven in and
has been most useful. I recovered strength in a
few weeks and then had the luck of meeting a
famous doctor, now dead, who blazed a trail for
many through the jungle of ignorance in such
matters. With his help I cleared up the only
remaining difficulty, that of suiting genernlities
to my own especial needs-a question always im-
portant in every diet. I achieved that and had no
further difficulties. I fear all this sounds very
egotistical, but I have been asked to give details
in case they should be useful to otheTs.
Having now a :fixedcenter to wOTkfrom I had
leisure to notice what a surprising ·change was
taking place in my intellectual equipment. I
could measure that growth almost daily also.
First, in my memory. That had always been
good, but now it became unusual, and I noticed
it was growing by a process which I called in-
ward sight. That is to say, I saw things rather
~
THE WAY OF POWER 39
than remembered them in the ordinary way, and
just as when one knows a place the picture is
hung once and for all for reference in one's brain,
so with anything that interested me. I had not
to call anything. to mind. It was as it were
flashed upon me the instant I needed it-like a
v1s10n. I memorized nothing but it was always
there when I wanted it; and to this day this is so
true that I write a whole historical story without
doing much more than verify my references and
seldom find them mistaken. Perhaps this may
be a more common case than I think, but it is
a very useful thing and from another aspect
provides me with what I can ·a traveling library
of prose and poetry, which I have not memorized
but which is always there for use or pleasure. I
see a book as a picture-see the printed page
and the very paragraphs and can then repeat
almost anything I have liked whether for use or
for pleasure, things practical as well as things
beautiful, if there is a distinction. And this
includes the spoken word.
This was the first thing that made the ques-
tion of clairvoyance clear to me. Memory. I
said to myself: If what we call the past can be
instantly present to one by inward sight whether
40 THE WAY OF POWER
intellectually or in the perfect vision of memory
calling up and transporting one to a place trod-
den no more by one's earthly feet, why may not
this strange faculty of presentment stretch for-
ward also into what we call the future and pre-
sent it as clearly to those who have developed
along that line? To memory time and distance
offer no barriers. Why may it not work for-
ward as well as backward? The contra argu-
ment will be: "Because you have not yet seen
the things which are to happen. The impression
is not yet made on the brain." But what of fore-
telling dreams and prophecies, with which I
might :fiUthis article? I did not then know any-
thing of the Oriental teaching of the static qual-
ity of time which science now appears to be en-
dorsing-what is called in India the Eternal
Now in wpich past, present and future are One,
-but great possibilities loomed dimly upon me
like mountains seen for an instant through mist
and resumed into it.
I found also a very much increased clearn ess
in following argument, in perception all roun d.
I fear at this time I was ready to make myself a
nuisance, for I was young enough to believe that
things clearly advantageous should be thru st
THE WAY OF POWER 41
down everybody's throat and that virtue demands
a persistent bumping of all one's friends into the
paths of peace. I know few things which develop
a more maddening fana.ticism than this kind of
brilliant success. However, I soon outgrew that
pugnacious stage and realized that people can
only accept things in their .own vibration or stage
of development and are better left without argu-
ment which is meaningless to them. Their time
will come as one's own does when the soil is there
to provide for the root of the flower.
But I saw from day to day what a wonderful
thing I had hit on. It had cured my physical
disability, had doubled every intellectual power
I possessed, and had given me the confident ex-
pectation that this was only the beginning of what
it could accomplish. I was right there. Gradu-
ally another aspect of the question dawned upon
me. This way of living was the most excellent
moral (I hate the word) gymnastic that could be
devised. It is no easy thing to live on a plan of
one's own in contradiction to that of the world
about one, to be laughed at, chaffed, however
kindly, to be told one is a faddist and so forth.
That would not be the case now. It was the case
then. And there was also the question of giv-
42 THE WAY OF POWER
ing up foods one had enjoyed for those which at
first seemed insipid, and of reducing them to the
simplest, most unobtrusive form, that it might
not inconvenience others.
But after a while it became strangely delight-
ful to find that I did not mind a bit what people
said or thought. I got to know a lot about the
subject and began to make it interesting to them
when it happened to come up, and there was a
pride in being what they called "a mighty good
advertisement" for my opinions.
But there is much more to it than that. Chaff
rightly directed is the best tonic in the world for
the anemic disease of taking oneself seriously, a
complaint to which the young and clever are
dreadfully prone and from which even the adult
and stupid are not wholly exempt. As a remark-
able Bishop of London once said: "After having
slain the ape and the tiger in oneself there still
remains the donkey, who is the most intractable
animal of the three." Chaff and good-humored
scorn are an excellen 't diet for starving out the
donkey, and so I found it. But there was more.
I do not think anyone knows or realizes the full
flavor of life until he has learned to say no to
himself with rather more than the same ease
THE WAY OF POWER 43
with which he can say no to other people's enjoy-
ments. I had learned the great lesson-it still
seems stupendous to me though it may be a tru-
ism to some--that with a real end in view any
sacrifice becomes a pleasure and in that spirit the
very best good is attainable on whatever plane
you may choose to seek it. I may add that in
Asia this way of living opens many a close-shut
door to those who practice it. It is regarded
as a virtue there.
And after that and with the early experiences
I have described in my first chapter it was not a
long step to the question of why all the great
faiths have taught abstinence, temperance, fast-
ing, as a very sword and shield in the fight against
the dominance of the body. They did not do it
to be tiresome and contradictious as had once
seemed possible, but _
because they were all stu-
dents of psychology; their business was with the
Occult, and world-wide, age-long experience had
taught them in differing degrees that the real
world behind the Looking Glass is not to be en-
tered by those whom the body binds to its ca-
prices. It is the religions that insist on this
fact which still keep their hold on their peoples,
and the religions that walk in purple and fine
44 THE WAY OF POWER
linen and fare sumptuously every day which have
lost it; because the reduction of the Occult to a
law which every man can perceive and follow
daily is the business of all faiths, and in his own
heart every man knows this cannot be achieved
nor the circle squared unless the body also has
sworn allegiance to the quest. It is impossible
to know one's real self and its powers until this is
gained, and when it is achieved the rest is not
difficult.
And now things rapidly cleared up in my
mind. As my force increased I was able to speak
easily in public, an effort of which I had always
thought with terror hitherto. Not only so, but
I can truly say I did not even need preparation
nor do I think I could speak if I prepared. I
can only note any quotation that occurs to me
on the subject (and th~ subjects are many) and
leave the rest to the moment, knowing that the
impulse and fulfilment are independent of the
brain.
Thus I gradually realized that what is called
the Occult is only an extension and wider per-
ception of the powers we know, and that every-
thing is attainable if we leave off talking and get
down to business. Do not let your mind spread
THE WAY OF POWER 4>
and splash over. Concentrate on one resolve and
exclude others. Take time to be solitary daily.
A void people who disturb you. Have the body in
such training that it no more dares to interpose
than a highly trained dog. Cultivate will and
perseverance as you can never do with an un-
disciplined body. The world has had examples
of what concentration can do but has not realized
the source. It is by such thoughts and prac-
tices that man is put in touch with the force of
the universe ; and he becomes a channel of the
sort of power on which he has chosen to concen-
trate-bad or good.
So I learned that the trained mind becomes a
form of reason, and reason blends into the
psychic, and delimitations are destroyed so that
it becomes difficult to say where each dominion in
the trinity of body, mind, and spirit which is man
begins and ends.
CHAPTER IV
IT IS NECESSARY BEFORE GOING FARTHER TO MAKE
some allusion to the strange world in which man
passes nearly half his visible life-the world of
sleep. Nearly three centuries ago the delight-
ful poet Herrick wrote these lines:
Here are we all by day. By night we are hurled
By dreams, each one, into a several world.
Wonderful insight !-Yet he would have been
amazed indeed if anyone had told him that his
poet's instinct had revealed to him the existence
of that strange world behind the Looking Glass
of which I have written so often in these chap-
ters. Yet it is so. The poets, the philosophers,
those whose wisdom and instinct alike draw them
to what in India is called Realization have always
understood that through dreams is a very direct
way to the World As It Is-not as it appears
in waking moments when earth-bound Reason
stands at the helm of the many-peopled ship
which a.man calls "myself."
46
-THE WAY OF POWER 47
Of course there are foolish little dreams also,
mere bubbles on the surface of memory of the
day's doings, but these are easily known for what
they are and nobody marks them. Sometimes,
however, and often to those who least expect it,
comes a dream marching with the certainty and
assurance of a god, or the profoundly disturbing
enigmatic questioning of the Sphinx, or the terri-
fying fore-vision of a prophecy, and all life is
changed and deflected for the dreamer. In
other words, the dreamer has for a moment
stepped through the Looking Glass, or, in the
Indian phrase, he has realized with a sudden
shock of truth that life is not as he has thought it
-but far otherwise. That man is fortunate, for
to most people such knowledge comes only in the
act of what we call death. It may then be
guessed by the look of helpless surrender, of aw-
ful recognition on the faces of the dying as their
true Selves look into their hearts. Very happy
are those who have seen glimpses already through
the eyes of Death's younger brother, Sleep. And
this is one of the many reasons why some knowl-
edge of the world of dreams is desirable.
So strongly were the Greeks impressed with
the haunting mystery of this state of conscious-
48 THE WAY OF POWER
ness that they offered divine honors to the Triad
of brothers, Hypnos, Oneiros, Thanatos, or
Sleep, Dream, and Death ; and looking upon
their dark brooding faces yearned for the Knowl-
edge to which each is in turn a gateway.
One of my own first steps through the Look-
ing Glass of early perception into the true world
behind it was in the revelation of a dream. I can
tell it only in part, and it is inherent in the mystic
nature of drea~s that they can never carry the
conviction to others that they do to oneself. That
is inevitable, springing as they do from roots
deep-set in long-past experiences of personality J
I was going on a very long journey, full o
l
doubts and loneliness, leaving much behind. It
was ha.rd to go. I think death must have that
same bitterness on the cup's edge from which all
must drink excepting those who know that death
is nothing-a mere link and by no means the
most important in the chain of psychic evolu-
tion.
But one night far out at sea, a dream came
walking the water. Dewy twilight and an old
garden at home, flowers tall in the borders, fad-
ing into forgetfulness of color and light, the
mouse-angels (as I was taught to call the bats)
THE WAY OF POWER 49
weaving magic circles about them under a dawn-
ing evening star. So far, all familiar, but in the
shadows a Personality not to be bound in any
earthly words I know, unseen but in the deepest
sense of the word absorbing my being into what
was far beyond my understanding. I found my-
self (it was long ago) pleading for the right to
grief. How could it be otherwise when the cup
of bitterness is thrust into one's hand and the
Angel of the Darker Drink invites the soul forth
to the lips to taste it?
"It is so far-to the other end of the world,"
I said, and much more that cannot be told. The
answer was-but whether spoken or not I never
know: "You are ignorant indeed. All such
grief is self-pity. And furthermore in the real
world there is no far or near-only states of
mind. Step out from it into the light. Even
here, when you know a very little, everything is
just round the corner. If you try with all your
might you cannot lose touch when you know the
truth. Everything is Here and Now." And
suddenly I knew, and the shock of delight which
woke me forever destroyed in me the fetters of
"far and near" or any vestige of belief in parting
made by time, distance or death. There was
\
50 THE WAY OF POWER
more than that, and how conveyed I cannot tell
for I despair of repeating the assurance which
freed me from one of the most painful maladies
of ignorance.
India has always recognized three planes of
consciousness connected with sleep: Waking,
Dreaming, and Deep Sleep. The first they class
as the Gross, the second as:the Subtle, the third
as the Pure. From deep sleep are brought back
the incommunicable dreams-often completely
forgotten by oneself-whi ch bring us in touch
with the Eternal Self. The subtle states of con-
sciousness with the one hand lull and numb the
obstinate perception of the senses and with the
other free that huge submerged subconscious self,
in relation to which man's every-day conscious-
ness has been compared with the vastness of the
submerged area of an iceberg in comparison with
that part which appears above the surface.
When this takes place many very singular
things may and do happen . Men may easily re-
member acts and scenes of experiences in former
lives. Not infrequently the strangest, most edil-
cative type of dream springs from this source,
and it should be regarded with deep interest for
obvious reasons. That has been a subject often
THE WAY OF POWER 51
dealt with in :fiction but never, so far as I know,
in the fullness of certitude with which it comes in
reality. It is a state very difficult of investiga-
tion because dreamers are naturally shy on such a
subject, but I may say it is almost a test of truth
that when such experiences are revealed they are
natural and simple. They seldom are connected
with violently dramatic experiences or the arro-
gance which claims great place or position in for-
mer lives for the dreamer, and they bring convic-
tion to those who experience them because they
reveal the secrets of development and arrest, and
throw light on the way that still remains. I have
never heard of one in which the whole life was re-
membered except when perfection of perception
is attained, and such instances come rarely to the
world's knowledge.
There are happily few cases where homesick-
ness for the beauty and verity of the dream-life
extinguishes all desire for the Mirror of the Pass-
ing Show as revealed by the senses, and the
dreamer pines through the long inhospitable un-
realities of the sunshine for night and the truths
hidden in darkness. This is a state as wholly un-
desirable as the paradises revealed by drugs and
drink. It is a psychic parcotic and should be com-
52 THE WAY OF POWER
bated manfully, especially as it is invariably as-
sociated with a diseased condition of body which
reveals it for what it is and marks a failure in
discipline. And there are the strange dreams
which I call "fusing dreams" where one person-
ality meets another in sleep and a dual life is
lived, for a time becoming a reality and remem-
bered in daytime but out of reach except in
sleep. This appears to be a foreshadowing of
the intimate communication and absorption in
store (when psychological matters are more
clearly understood) for lovers or the highest
farms of friendship. Of this state I have no
personal knowledge though I have based a story
("V. Lydiat") on knowledge gained elsewhere,
which attracted interest from those who knew it
was true in essentials.
I myself had at one time the very strange ex-
perience of a connected story which I dreamed
nightly. It was, so to speak, serialized, in that it
went on for many nights, beautiful, dramatic (as
I thought) in conception and development,
springing and branching as a tree does from its
seed. But the singular thing was that a friend
one day brought to my house a visitor supposed
to have unusual perception in such matters, and
THE WAY OF POWER 53
when my dream-serial was mentioned he said,
"Yes; I can see it," and forthwith began to de-
scribe with perfect accuracy the terraced lawns
and clipped box hedges which were always the
beginning when the mists of sleep rolled aside
and the stage was set. I think this was a case
of mind-reading, startling in the extreme, for I
had never given a detail to a living soul. I had
the impression that he could have told me the
whole story as easily, and regretted afterwards
that I had shut down the subject. For I never
knew the end though I believe it is still latent
in my own perception. The experience ended
as suddenly as it began.
I find that many of the subjects of my stories
come to me in sleep in the form of dramas which
I see clearly acted before me; sometimes also
in the form of stories told dramatically after the
fashion of story-tellers in the bazaars of Asia.
But I have never succeeded in catching more
than a flashing glimpse of the story-teller, and
I know he is not always the same. I have a belief
that to come face to face with him in dream would
open the measureless stores of wisdom and beauty
lost in the past. Is art a recovery as well as a .
prophecy?
54 THE WAY OF POWER
The titles almost always come in the state be-
tween sleeping and waking when reason and
thought lie on the threshold of consciousness like
dogs on duty but still dormant. When they take
charge the connection is broken and I mqst re-
member as I can. Daily events blunt the im-
pressions very quickly except in some remark-
able cases.
I had lately a. dream of extraordinary beauty
and perception which I shall not forg et. It be-
gan in Kensington Gardens and a meeting with
a little middle-aged woman there, leading up to
the discovery of a strange boarding-house in Lon-
don for people who had died with unfulfilled
lives which apparently came to nothing, but who
were now directing themselves along ways of ful-
filment, absolutely unconscious that they had un-
dergone the experience of death. I dreamed the
name also: "The House of Fulfilment." That
title I have been compelled to steal for an "oc-
cult" novel which nothing else would fit, but the
story abides and I shall write it one day. There
were such strange people in it, and the singularity
was that, belonging to the World behind the
Looking Glass, they were obliged to work with
tied hands in the conditions of this until they
THE WAY OF POWER 55
could make good. The house was in one of the
little old-fashioned Georgian streets of Kensing-
ton ... running up the hill from noisy Ken-
sington High Street, very quiet, with yellowing
poplars looking over the :wall and bushes of
Michaelmas daisies in the borders. I see it all.
I hope I shall not be suspected of any arro-
gance in telling these experiences. I think those
things told quite simply and truly are helpful in
the deciphering of a difficult subject and I should
be glad to know if other writers also dream many
of their stories. It is interesting, because quite
undoubtedly the gift of creative art in its differ-
ing degrees is one of the roads to the Land be-
hind the Looking Glass. There are reasons for
that too long to enter into here but irrefutable,
and it is a singular fact that while the saints ap-
pear to enter in great flashes of cosmic conscious-
ness, the artist seems to take the winged ~ay of
dreams. But there can be no fixed rule in such
matters, nor would one expect it.
There is one amazingly interesting fact in true
dreams. It is that the dreamer goes free. He re-
gains his birthright and is no longer the slave of
the miserable dimensions of length, breadth and
height which control all our waking doings. Nor
56 THE WAY OF POWER
is he bound by time as with a tether. Observe
that in dreams time is no more. It may be to-
day and tomorrow at the same moment. You
may be a child, yet with all the memories and
experiences of old age. You may drift com-
posedly down the street never touching it with
a footfall. You may melt through walls and
doors like Christ after the Resurrection. You
may talk fear less and unamazed with friends who
cross the river of death to meet you, and know
they never died. You may easily meet two per-
sonalities of people you know, fused into one,
and find it quite comprehensible and natural un-
til you wake and it blurs as the darkness of the
prison-gates closes on you; you may be in two
places at the same moment. Things can be ab-
solutely simultaneous which in ordinary life are
consecutive. One great thinker has suggested
that death itself may be a passage from the con-
secutive to the simultaneous. This is very likely.
He had had in dreams a glimpse into the World
behind the Looking Glass.
Profoundly beautiful subconscious revelations
sometimes take place in dreams. Here is one
which carries a meaning not negligible.
THE WAY OF POWER 57
I knew two men who had once been close
friends. The one had done the other a terrible in-
jury and its consequences had completely
estranged them. People did not even speak of
either in the other's presence. All was ended.
But one day the injured man suddenly said to
me: "It's a strange thing. I hate the man.
Heaven knows I have reason to. But I dream of
him constantly-can't get away from him; and
always in my dreams the old friendship is there
and to be together is good right through. Those
are the happiest dreams I have. And yet waking,
I would run the country sooner than meet the
fellow. I could kick myself for being such an
ass in my sleep." ~
As you will see, the submerged self he met in
dreams knew best . It knew that love is in its
nature real and eternal and hatred a darkness, a
nothingness, which dissolves in the light of truth.
I would give much to know the dreams of the
other man. Would they complete the story? I
have often wondered that. The first was, at all
events, compelled in the dream-world to Reality.
Such a case is well understood in Indian teach-
ing. India asserts that the infinite tide of per-
58 THE WAY OF POWER
fection behind all of us flows in by such inlets as
tb,
e di:fferent planes of consciousness in sleep.
I "For in the animal lay hidden and possible the
man, and when the door of consciousness was
opened, man rushed out. And in man lies hidden
perfection barred and locked away by ignorance.
With Realization he comes in touch with the Hid-
den Treasure."
Milton wa/r ight in his almost miraculously
perceptive assertion that high revelations are
made "in clear dream and solemn vision."
For in sleep we move on much more subtle and
permeative planes of action than in waking, and
the more we are daily disciplined in opep.ing up
the channel of communication with the untrod-
den continent of our submerged self-the lost
Atlantis hidden in us all-the more wonderful
and illuminating are our dreams. This may be
seen in the dreams recorded in the Scriptures of
the great Faiths. They would form a book of
profound psychological interest if analyzed and
compared.
Yet, striking through apparently very com-
monplace personalities come sometimes singu-
larly revealing dreams, thus proving that in truth
no one is commonplace,-that it is only the com-
THE WAY OF POWER 59
monplace of ignorance in ourselves which so sees
it. For below the dwarfed nature of which
our senses make report lies the submerged and
marvelous self of which the man himself is wholly
unconscious except in the strange visitings of
dreams which he is unlikely to reveal to any hu-
man being except in most unusual circumstances.
Very often also, his every-day self entirely fails
to interpret them. He will say in bewilderment,
"I knew when I was asleep, but now it all seems
nonsense." And I fancy most of us have had
the experience of dreams extraordinarily lovely
and revealing which the awaking sense clutched
at for a moment and then let go helplessly, drift-
ing away shapelessly as mists at dawn. One may
see the dream-flowers wither in the hot clasp of
our sense-perceptions, see the dream-pageant
fade and dissolve like sunset clouds, leaving noth-
ing behind but the gathering gray of loss.
That dream of being in two places at once-
places that melt into each other and are absolutely
one-I have had often. Each is each, yet there is
no overlapping. I walk through the one and
know no surprise. Waking, I remember it per-
fectly but cannot intellectually understand how
it was possible, though I know well that is how
60 THE WAY OF POWER
thin gs are in the real world behind the Looking
Glass, where the logic and rules of the game are
entirely different from those we know in front
of it. Because, as I learned in a dream already
quoted, places there are not solidarities but states
of mind.
/I. have heard many people express the wish
·that they could control their dreams and enjoy
what they most desire in sleep. But that is a
foolish wish, for dreams would lose all signifi-
cance if our every-day selves took charge. It is
precisely because they are off duty that the un-
expected, the illuminative, come through. This
is the flaw in Du Maurier's beautiful book,
"Peter Ibbetson." The hero and heroine, divided
in life, meet nightly in dreams. ·The dream is a
duet-but of the senses exalted to the highe_
st
pitch. They dream together of exquisite jewels
and toilettes, of dinners at the choicest restau-
rants and wines of the costliest vintages, operas,
plays, by the most celebrated performers, and so
forth,-opiates for the sorrow of parting. Such
dreams are earth-bubbles . The senses are awake
and guardant though the body sleeps. They are
a fairy story of the reasoning, clutching mind.
No. Let us rejoice that in the true dream the
THE WAY OF POWER 61
close guard of the senses is off duty and we go
out free in the dark to revelation. Very differ-
ent is the wish that we could unfailingly meet the
hidden self and, joining hands, walk straight into
the Real World, and that wish can be gratified
by patient discipline. And there the disciplined
body may receive its share, for it may be said
with truth that there is no sleep so deep, tran-
quilizing and profound as that which is called
"The Opener of the Gate y
The Greeks and Romans both believed in the
healing power of dreams, and in ancient Rome
the College of the Inspired Dreams was a place
of gathering for those who were sick or sad. It
was dedicated to .lEsculapius the Healer, and it
was believed h~ was the inspirer of these dreams.
Those needing help slept in the quiet of the
sacred cloisters and seldom without result. One
sees exa~tly why that should be and wishes such
help could be given now, and wituout human in-
tervention, to those who need it. (But it is a true
saying that we can participate in heaven and its
gifts only in so far as heaven is within ourselves.
How can people empty of heaven realize the pos-
sibilities·of dreams or the meaning of that little
known saying of Christ's, "When the outside be-
62 THE WAY OF POWER
comes the inside then the Kingdom of Heaven is
come." It means that when for any man the de-
ceptions and distortions of the outer world are
swallowed up in realization of the inner, the hid-
den world,-when the outer and the submerged
selves have joined hands and are one,-then he
has touched on immortality and has drunk of the
wine of eternal joyJ
It is a strange tiiought that all round us, hid-
den in every recurring night, lie these silent fields
of harvest in which so few are reapers. Yet they
lie, ripening in sunshine. In the words of Pro-
fessor James:
"One conclusion was forced upon my mind,
and my impression of its truth has ever since re-
mained unshaken. It is that our normal wak-
ing consciousness is but one special type of con-
sciousness, whilst all about it? parted from it by
the filmiest of screens, there are potential forms
of consciousness entirely different. We may go
through life without suspecting their existence,
but apply the requisite stimulus and at a touch
they are there in all their completeness."
With the last four words I disag~ee, for it is
impossible for the uninitiated to say·what their
completeness is when we know of cases ranging
THE WAY OF POWER 63
from the mere glimmer to the conflagration of
revelation. But the statement is true and strik-
ing and it is gladdening to see the distinguished
thinkers of the West gradually awaking to facts
known and taught for millenniums in the Orient.
Professor James added:
I "The whole drift of my experience goes to per-
tsuade me that the world of our present conscious-
Iness is only one out of many worlds of conscious-
\ ness which exist, and that these other worlds must
· contain experiences which have a meaning for
( our lives also."
That statement is clear and concise, but how
far does it fall behind the statement of St. Paul
(with direct experience to back it) struggling
with the futilities of words to express what eye
has not seen nor ear heard , but nevertheless what
he had known for truth in ways far beyond mor-
tal senses. (I condense.)
"I knew a man above fourteen years ago
(whether in the body I cannot tell; God
knoweth I)-such a one caught up into the third
heaven; How that he was caught up into para-
dise and heard unspeakable words which it is not
possible for a man to utter."
In our version "possible" is translated "law-
64 THE WAY OF POWER
ful," but the former is said to represent the
meaning more closely. And again he says, us-
ing the very illustration of the Looking Glass
which
1
I have used so often, "For now we see
through a glass darkly, but then face to face."
Yes, there are indeed many states of conscious-
ness and such a man could have taught, can teach,
modern investigators much about the varying de-
grees of consciousness in dream and tr ance.
/ In India is the well-spring of knowledge of
these states and their powers and it is clearly
stated by those who know that there are dan-
gers. In the World behind the Looking Glass
are no guides. There a man must depend upon
the essential in himself and on nothing else. I
have written a story about that side of the world
of dreams which came to me so actually as a
dream that though my hand wrote it I could
never say my objective self created it. It sums
up more than I knew of the subject at the time,
but I have since learned its truth.
One of the characters says:
"We recognize a strange force, a very power-
ful dynamic. We consider it a manifestation of
, the primal energy. It lies all round us for the
1 taking and in itself is neither bad nor good. The
THE WAY OF POWER 65
result depends on the person who uses it. The
rules we call The Rules of Detachment. Cer-
tainly this force may be used for a very high kind
of spiritual adventure, but in itself it is neutral.
It is a sword. Now a sword may be used by a
god or a devil or any of the grades between."
The Rules of Detachment are given.
This force is of course related to the world of
dreams, and the hero persists in projecting him-
self into this state of consciousness without
knowledge of where safety lies. The story is
concerned with his neglect of the Rules of Safety
.and the terrible consequences and final extrica-
tion. The point is that what you will meet in
th at world is what you deserve to meet and what
your own thoughts and life have invited.
"With a thought you may be in the horror of
the Desol ate Country, with another in the Shin-
ing Land, for every man creates his own universe
until he can perceive it as it is in truth."
Indeed one must not walk unguarded among
dreams. ·There are many people whose degrada-
tion, slow but complete, has been consummated
by what they have met there : There are people
in mad -houses who could testify to this and more,
and would not be believed if they did so. We do
66 THE WAY OF POWER
not understand. We play with the Unknown
and wreathe it with flowers and one day it rises
and petrifies us with a deadly stare. There are
thoughts and deeds which should make any man
who is their slave fear to sleep. Shakespeare
knew this as he knew most other things. Look
at his Lady Macbeth crawling against the castle
wall and shuddering at the very thought of night
and what it brings in hidden hands.
Sleep is so imminently near to the reality which
brushes away illusion and reveals our true selves.
Does any man of that order need a more burn-
ing hell than to meet himself and see the truth?
It has been said that the most appalling experi-
ence in ghost stories is that of the man who meets
the doppel ganger-his own double; and I re-
call a terrible picture of Rossetti's-"How They
Met Themselves"-where fear stares at you from
two ravaged faces. But what is the experience
of meeting one's outward semblance to that of
meeting one's inward verisimilitude?
Many dreams visit us of which we miss the
importance. The waking self has not the knowl-
edge to interpret them. The counsel is needed
then of one instructed who can "divine" as it says
in the Bible. The Old and New Testaments are
THE WAY OF POWER 67
very wonderful dream-books, as they are also in
all the psychological matters in which the West
begins to explore. It will be remembered in Jo-
seph's adventures in Egypt-that land of ancient
mysteries-how the two servants of Pharaoh and
Pharaoh himself dreamed dreams which they
knew instinctively were important but could in
no way decipher until Joseph "divined" for them.
If an adequate study were made of these and the
many allied cases of abnormal consciousness we
should realize the treasures of knowledge hidden
for the seeker. Many thousands might be helped
· to realization if their dreams could be divined
for them, not indeed after the methods of the
modern psycho-analyst but by one who under-
stands something of the conditions of that world
where the subconscious meets us with face un-
veiled according to our capacity of understand-
ing.
Let it be understood that the enjoyment of life
as presented to us in the Mirror of the Passing
Show is by no means hurt or hindered by com-
prehension partial or complete of its illusions,
and is neither stilted nor highbrow, nor tinged
with Puritanism. We can afford to love what
can no longer deceive or hurt us and every step
68 THE WAY OF POWER
onward reveals more and more of the joy that is
based on this understanding.
Do we enjoy the theater less because we know
the show is only a shadow and reflection of life
as it seems to us? Is it of less interest because
we know that presently the actors will have laid
aside their assumed characters with their dresses,
and the lights will be extinguished and the stage
remain empty and echoing until the next troupe
of actors bounds on in the glitter of lights and
watching intent faces? Eyes that are unblinded
perceive all the more clearly the beauty, irony, .
and pathos of the show because they know that
it must pass, that it dances before them veiling
from its actors and most of its spectators the
Utterly Lovely, the Wholly Desirable, which at
times it attempts to shadow forth.
In India they call this glittering, shifting,
changing spectacle the Lila or "Sport of God"-
a conception that has meanings too profound to
be touched on here, though some minds will see
the implication for themsel ves. And of these im-
plications one of the deepest is the meaning of
sleep and dreams, and the state of consciousness
into which each one of us is nightly thrown. It
THE WAY OF POWER 69
is as though the evolving power within cried to
the most crass and materialistic of us all:
"You shall not wholly forget your true self
and its origin. You bury it in the day with
schemes and fancies that heap the earth above it,
blinded, deafened and dead. But the night is
mine and yours. Then, be you what you will, sot,
dollar-chaser, prostitute, thief, blinded with fri-
volity or with earthly wisdom, drunken with the
pleasures of the Passing Show, I take you by the
hand and lead you into the Ancient Dark, forc-
ing you to the sight of things lovely, terrible,
grotesque, deadly, foreshadowing, and thus com-
pel you to remembrance of that which abides
when the fashion of this world passes away."
It is well to take the reminder of sleep and
dreams. In that world those who know carry the
Lamp and Sword, and the universe is their y
CHAPTER V
SCATTERED THROUGH ANCIENT BOOKS OF ALL THE
Eastern countries (including the Scriptures we
ourselves accept as canonical though at present
the so-called miracles which they record do not
enjoy a very high reputation) are events so un-
usual and alien to every-day experience that the
witnesses incline to attribute them to the mani-
festation of supernatural interference and there
leave the subject withr,
mt further explanation.
They have been dismissed as a. whole in a sum-
mary fashion with the apparent conclusion that
until our own favored nineteenth and twentieth
centuries people were incapable of weighing evi-
dence, were shining examples of mendacity, and
were as easily deceived as children. Certainly
there were and are many people of this descrip-
tion even in the present day, but it is very diffi-
cult to suppose even in connection with the Bible
that one or other of these was invariably the case.
For my part, in my quest, I have thought it worth
while in an extended course of reading to con-
70
THE WAY OF POWER 71
sider thes~ instances and endeavor to relate them
to what I have learned further on my way and to
note some of them for consideration. Let us for
instance glance at the famous travels of Abu-
Abdulla Mahommad, known as Ibn Batuta, the
most famous of Arab travelers, a man born in
I
the year 1304 and known to scholars all the world
over, who made his way as far as China in those
difficult days. The editor who set down the trav-
els (70,000 miles) of Ibn Batuta from his own
lips concludes thus :
"Here ends what I have put into shape from
the memoranda of the Shaik Abu-Abdulla Ma-
hommad Ibn Batu ta whom God honor I No per-
son of intelligence can fail to see that this Shaik
is the Traveler of our age, and he who should call
him the Traveler of the whole Body of Islam
would not go beyond the truth."
In all that I relate I alter no fact nor impli-
cation though I condense. I give one singular
incident which took place in Silhet in Bengal.
Ibn Batuta says:
"My object in going to the hill country was
to see a holy personage who lives there, the Shaik
J alaluddin, one of the most eminent of saints
and singular of men who had wrought miracles
72 THE WAY OF POWER
of great note. He was when I saw him a very
old man. At a later date I heard from the
Shaik's disciples of his death at the age of one
hundred and fifty years. I was also told that
for some fifty years he had lived only on milk.
When I was going to visit him four of his disci-
ples met me at a distance of two days' journey
from his place of abode. They told me that he
had said to the faquirs with him: 'The traveler
from the West is coming: go and meet him.'
Now he knew nothing whatever about me, but
the truth had been revealed to him. I set out
with these people and arrived at the hermitage
outside his cave. . . . The day I entered his pres-
ence he was wearing an ample mantle of goats'
hair which greatly took my fancy, so that I could
not help saying to myself: 'I wish to God that
he would give it to me.' When I went to take
leave of him he went into a corner of h1s cave,
took off this mantle and ma.de me put it on. The
faquirs told me that the Shaik was not in the
habit of wearing it, but put it on at the time of
my arrival, saying:-'The man of the West will
ask for this dress. A Pagan king will take it
from him and give it to our brother to whom it
THE WAY OF POWER 73
belongs and for whom it was made.' When the
faquirs told me this, my answer was:
"'I have the Shaik's blessing with his mantle
and shall take care not to wear it in visiting any
king whate ver.' '
"So I quitted the Shaik and a good while after
it happened that when I was traveling in China
I came to the city of Khansa [Hang-chow].
The crowd was great and I was separated from
my companions. I had on this dress. The vice-
roy was passing with a great following and ob-
served me. He called me, asked questions and
would not let me go but took me in and pre-
sented me to the prince who bore the title of
king, who asked me questions. While I answered
his eyes were fixed with admiration on my dress.
"'Take it off,' said the viceroy, and there was
no possibility of disobeying, so the prince took
the dress and gave me ten robes of honor, a horse
caparisoned and a sum of money. I was vexed
but then came to my mind the saying that a
Pagan king would take my dress, and I was
greatly astonished.
"The year following I came to the residences
of the King of China at Cambaluc [Peking].
74 THE WAY OF POWER
I betook myself to the hermitage of the Shaik
Burhan-uddin. He was reading and had on my
very dress.
" 'This,' said I, 'is the mantle the King of
Hang-chow took from me.'
"'This mantle,' said the Shaik, 'was made for
me by my brother J alaluddin and he wrote to me
that it would reach me by the hands of such a
one.' So he showed me J alaluddin's letter, which
I read, marveling at the Shaik's prophetic pow-
ers. On my telling Burhan-uddin the first part
of .the story he said :
" 'My brother J alaluddin is above these prodi-
gies now. He had indeed supernatural resources,
but now he has passed to the mercy of God.' "
Now this, even if the story could be proved to
be unreliable in some details, is an interesting ex-
ample of what was believed of clairvoyance in a
remote time. The shrine of this shaik is still
venerated in India. Ibn Batuta gives also an
interesting account of what we call hypnotism.
A friend of his in discussing events of this kind
tells him:
"I went once to see the Shaik [or Khan] in his
cave. He took hold of my hand and all at once
I imagined myself to be in a great palace where
THE WAY OF POWER
this Shaik was seated upon a throne. I thought
there was a crown upon his head. On each side
were beautiful handmaidens and there was water
about into which fruit was constantly dropping.
I took up an apple to eat it, and straightway I
found myself again in the cave with the Shaik
beside me laughing. I had a bad illness which
lasted several months and I never would go again
to see that strange being."
At Hang-chow in China, where he mentions
there were many Mohammedans, Ibn Batuta
had also a singular experience. There he was en-
tertained by a Mongol viceroy named Kurtia (it
may be remembered that at this time the Mongol
dynasty, best remembered by the famous Kublai
Khan, was ruling China), and great are the ac-
counts Ibn Batuta gives of his noble hospitality
in his own palace. But here is the passage:
"That same night a juggler made his appear-
ance and the Amir said:
" 'Come. Show us some of your marvels.'
"Upon this he took a. wooden ball with sev-
eral holes in it through which long thongs were
passed, and laying hold of one of these, slung it
into the air (we were in the middle of the palace
court). It went so high that we lost sight of it.
76 THE WAY OF POWER
There now remained only a little of the end of
a thong in the conjuror's hand and he desired one
of the bystanders who assisted him to lay hold of
it and climb. He did so, climbing by the thong
and we lost sight of him also. The conjuror then
called him three times, but getting no reply
snatched up a knife, climbed the thong and dis-
appeared. Presently he threw down one of the
boy's hands, then a foot, then the other hand,
the other foot, the trunk, and last, the head.
Then he descended, puffing and panting, with his
clothes all bloody, kissed the ground before the
Amir and said something in Chinese. The Amir
gave an order, our friend took the lad's limbs and
laid them together, gave a kick, and lo I there
was the boy who got up and stood before us. All
this astonished me beyond measure and I had an
attack of palpitation like that which overcame
me in the presence of the Sultan of India when
he showed me something of the same kind. They
gave me a cordial. The Kazi was next me and
said he:
" 'Wallah! ,,. It is my opinion that there has
been neither going up nor coming down. It is
all hocus pocus.' "
THE WAY OF POWER 77
This seems to be an excellent example of rriass
hypnotism.
The former occasion to which Ibn Batuta al-
ludes here was very curious.
While visiting Mohammed Tuglak (whose
noble mausoleum I have seen in India) he found
two yogins in the King's room, one of whom,
while sitting cross-legged, rose into the air. His
comrade pulled off a shoe, and rapped it on the
ground. The shoe immediately rose in the air
and tapped the other on the nape of the neck,
when he gradually subsided to the ground. Ibn
Batuta was so horrified at this transgression of
all natural law that he fainted away in the King's
presence.
Ricold de Monte Croce ascribes the same prac-
tices to the Tibetan lamas. One of them was said
to fly, but, according to Ricold's description, he
did not exactly fly bl,lt skimmed over the ground
without touching it, and could seem to sit with-
out sitting upon anything.
I now give some particulars related by the
Mogul Emperor (J ehangir) of India, son of the
great Emperor Akbar, and father of Shah J ehan
who buiH the Taj Mahal. He was born in Au-
78 THE WAY OF POWER
gust, 1570. I may mention that in his singu-
lar autobiography a man in the greatest posi-
tion in the known world had no temptation to
mislead anyone. He was what he was-and
when the men whom he describes asserted that
they could achieve effects passing the bounds of
human belief they were running the risk of im-
palement (rather a favorite punishment with the
Emperor) if they had failed to convince him.
"They stated that of any tree which should be
named they would set the seed and I should im-
med iately see the result. One of the nobles pres-
ent desired a mulberry. They set ten different
seeds in the ground and recited among them-
selves in unintelligible language, when instantly
a plant sprang from each of the ten places, each
of which was the tree required. In the same way
they produced a mango, an apple tree, a cypress,
a pine-apple, a fig-tree, 3:nalmond, a walnut and
many others, and this without any attempt at con-
cealment and open to the observation of all pres-
ent. The trees sprang slowly from the earth to
the height of one or perhaps two cubits, when
they shot forth leaves and branches; the apple
tree in particular producing fruit which was
brought to me and of which I can attest the fra-
THE WAY OF POWER 79
grance. But the fruits were not confined to the
apple; they said I should taste of the fruit of
every tree. Then making a sort of procession
and invocation about the trees there appeared on
the respective ones a sweet mango without the
rind, an almond fresh and ripe, a large delicious
fig and so with the pine and the rest. This was
not all. Before the trees were removed there ap-
peared among the foliage birds of surprising
beauty and melody of song such as the world
never saw before. At the close of the operation
the leaves, as in autumn, put on variegated tints
and the trees gradually disappeared into the
earth. I can say only that if what I describe had
not happened in my own presence I could never
have believed it. Also, they were furnished with
a bow and about fifty steel-pointed arrows. One
took the bow and shooting an arrow into the air
it stood fixed at a considerable height. He shot
a second which became attached to the first and
so with all the arrows to the last, which striking
the united sheaf in the air the whole broke asun-
der and fell to the earth. This it would be dif-
ficult to explain. Also, they brought a chain
fifty cubits in length which they threw up into
the air where it remained as if fastened. A dog
80 THE WAY OF POWER
immediately ran up and disappeared in the air.
A hog, a panther, a lion and a tiger were alter-
nately sent up and disappeared. At last they
took down the chain and put it in a bag, no one
discovering in what way the animals were made
to vanish. This, I may venture to affirm, was
beyond measure strange. Al so they excavated
the earth in the shape of a tank of considerable
size. They spread a covering over it, and this
being removed, the water appeared to be a sheet
of ice. They desired that the elephant keepers
should lead their eleph ants across. Accordingly
one of the men set his elephant upon the ice and
it walked over with as much ease and safety as
upon rock, remaining for some time on the sur-
face of the frozen pond. The sheet was replaced
and being again removed every vestige of ice or
.even moisture had completely disappeared.
"I can add only that though I had frequently
in my father's court witnessed such performances
never did I see or hear of anything so wonder-
fully strange. I dismissed them finally with a
donation of 50,000 rupees with the intimation
that all the Amirs of my court should each con-
tribute something in proportion. In very truth,
however we may have bestowed on these perfor-
THE WAY OF POWER 81
mance s the character of trick or juggle, they very
evidently partake of the nature of something be-
yond the exertion of human energy. I have
heard that the art has been called the Semnanian
[perhaps "celestial"]. It may be said indeed
that in some men exists a peculiar and essential
faculty which enables them to accomplish things
far beyond the ordinary scope of human exer-
tion."
So speaks the Emperor. His translator,
Major Price, adds in a note:
"I have myself been witness to the mango
operation on the western side of India, but a
sheet was used to cover the operation [i.e., the
growth]. I have however no conception of the
means by which it was done, unless the jugglers
had the trees about them in every state from the
seedling to the fruit."
I also have seen this done as I have said and
can safely say there was no opportunity for an all
but naked man to carry either trees or branches
with him. Like others, I have seen very clumsy
imitations of this performance-one no later thari
three months ago, and there is no mistaking the
difference. These latter can be seen anywhere
in India.
82 THE WAY OF POWER
The Emperor had some i:emarkable experi-
ences also with a famous astrologer at his court.
I profess no belief in astrology, for I know noth-
ing of it and think quite another explanation pos-
sible, but it is worth recording. Jehangir writes
(I condense as usual) :
"On the 17th a strange affair happened. Shah
Shuja [his grandson J was playing in the palace.
There was a window and the prince went to it to
look out. He fell headlong from it. By chance
there was a carpet below and a carpet-spreader
sitting on it. The child's head fell on the carpet
and his feet on the back and shoulders of the man
and though the height was seven yards the com-
passion of God came to his aid and the carpet and
the man saved his life. nc was unable to speak.
I ran out in a state of bewilderment and hold-
ing him in my affectionate embrace was dis-
tracted with this favor from Allah. A strange
thing was that three or four months before the
royal astronomer had represented to me that it
was predicted from the Prince's horoscope that
these three or four months were unpropitious to
him and it was possible he might fall from some
high place, but that the dust of calamity would
not settle upon the skirt of his life. This dread
THE WAY OF POWER 83
dwelt on my mind and I wa.snever for a moment
forgetful of that nursling of fortune. When I
arrived in Kashmir this unavoidable catastrophe
occurred."
Again:
"On Tuesday the 21st Padshah Begum Banu
[one of the ladies of the harem] died and grief
for this heart-rending event laid a heavy load on
my heart. A strange thing is that the astronomer
royal two months before this had informed some
of my servants that one of the chief sitters in the
harem of chastity would hasten to the hidden
abode of non-existence. He had discovered this
from the horoscope of my destiny."
Again:
"In these days Shah Shuj a had an eruption
so violent that no water would go down his throat
and his life was despaired of. It was recorded in
his father's horoscope that his son would die this
year; all the astronomers were unanimous that
he would not live,-but the astronomer royal
said on the contrary that he would live. I asked
'By what proof?' He said that in the horoscope
of my destiny it was recorded that in this year
no trouble would find its way to the royal mind,
and as I had a great affection for him no harm
84 THE WAY OF POWER
would befall him and some other child would die.
It came to pass as he said. Shah Shuj a carried
his life out of that deadly place, and another son
of my son's died at Burhanpur. Besides this
many judgments of the astronomer royal proved
correct. This is not without strang eness and
therefore is recorded in these memoir s. I or-
dered the astronomer royal to be weighed
against money and the weight came to 6,500 ru-
pees. This was given him."
It is a singular fact that though a devout Mos-
lem the Emperor Jehangir, like his great father
the Emperor Akbar, was fond of discussing the
highest flights of Indian thought with the saints
of that faith. His first notice of one of them,
known as Jadrup Gosa.in, is as follows:
"When I arrived in the neighborhood of Agra
I went on foot to see him. He has thoroughly
mastered the science of the Vedanta. I con-
versed with him. He spoke well, so much so as
to make an impression on me. My society also
suited him. My revered father saw him in the
same place and always remembered him very
well."
The science of the Vedanta includes Yoga.
THE WAY OF POWER 85
Jehangir then goes on to describe the initia-
tion of the Brahmins with much accuracy. After
a later interview he adds:
"Certain]y association with him is a great
privilege."
Again:
"In foregoing pages something has been writ-
ten about Jadrup Gosain. At this time he
changed his residence to Mathura, which is one of
the greatest places of worship of the true God
(under the aspect of Krishna) on the banks of
the Jumna. As I valued his society I hastened
to wait on him and for a long time enjoyed his
company without the presence of any stranger.
In truth, his existence is a great gain to me; one
can be greatly benefited and delighted."
Again:
"On Monday the 12th my desire to see the
Gosain J adrup again increased and hastening to
his hut without ceremony I enjoyed his society.
Sublime words were spoken between us. God
Almighty has granted him an unusual grace, a
lo£ty understanding, an exalted nature and
sharp intellectual powers, with a God-given
knowledge and a heart free from the attachments
86 THE WAY OF POWER
of the world. He has of worldly goods a piece of
old cotton and a piece of earthenware from which
to drink water. On Wednesday I went again to
visit the Gosain and bade him good-by. Un-
doubtedly parting from him weighs upon my
mind that desires the truth."
I have a motive in inserting these notices of
the Emperor's meetings .with the Sannyasin for
in the final chapters of this book I hope to deal
with the teaching which as I believe gives us the
key to many of these mysteries, and undoubtedly
the Emperor heard of them from Jadrup who
was a past master in the science, and derived
from them the wistfulness for knowledge of
which he speaks.
I cannot close this chapter without alluding
to the strange experiences of the Lazarist
Fathers Hue and Gabet in Tibet about the year
1849, and will then pass on to one of the most
remarkable demonstrations on record of power
for which it seems difficult to account on the the-
ories either of fraud or spiritism.
The Abbe Hue in the record of their travels
in Tibet, in allusion to a lamasery where they
spent some time and which rejoices in the posses-
THE WAY OF POWER 87
sion of a so-called miraculous tree, writes as fol-
lows:
"The Monastery is called the Ten Thousand
Images, alluding to the tree which according to
the legend sprang from the saint Tsong-Kaba's
hair and bears a Tibetan character on each of its
leaves. At the foot of the mountain on which the
lamasery stands is a great square enclosure
formed by brick walls. Upon entering we were
able to examine at leisure the marvelous tree.
We were filled with an absolute consternation of
astonishment at finding that there were on each
of the leaves well-formed Tibetan characters all
of a green color, some lighter, some .darker. Our
first suspicion was fraud of the monks, but after
a minute examination we could not discover the
least deception. The characters all appeared to
us portions of the leaf, equally with its veins and
nerves. In one leaf they would be at the ~op, in
another in the middle, in younger leaves only
partially formed. The bark and branches which
are like those of the plane are also covered with
characters. When you remove a bit of bark the
young bark beneath exhibits the indistinct out-
line of germinating characters. We examined
everything closely to detect trickery but could see
88 THE WAY OF POWER
nothing of the sort and the perspiration abso-
lutely trickled down our faces under the in-
fluence of the sensations which this most amazing
spectacle created. More profound intellects than
ours may be able to supply an explanation but we
give it up. The tree seemed of great age. Its
trunk, which three men could scarcely embrace
with outstretched arms, is not more than eight
feet high. The branches spread out and are
extremely bushy. The leaves are al~ays green
and the wood has an exquisite odor, something
like cinnamon. The lamas told us that in sum-
mer the tree produces beautiful large red flowers,
-also that nowhere else exists such a tree, that
many attempts have been made in various
lamaseries to propagate it by seeds and cuttings
but in vain. The [Chinese J Emperor Khang-Hi
when upon pilgrimage constructed a dome of
silver over the tree."
Again, on an occasion when they met with
many pilgrims in the wilderness the Abbe and
Father Gabet spoke to one:
" 'Doubtless some great solemnity calls you
together.'
"'Yes, tomorrow will be a great day. A lama
THE WAY OF POWER 89
will manifest his power; he will kill himself yet
not die,' the father continues.
"This spectacle is very common in the lama-
series of Tartary. The lama who is to manifest
his power prepares himself for many days by
fasting, prayer and no communication with man-
kind. On the day the multitude of pilgrims
assembles in the great court there where an altar
is raised. The lama seats himself upon the altar
and takes from his girdle a large knife; at his
feet numerous lamas commence the invocations.
He suddenly throws aside his scarf, unfastens
his girdle, and with the knife slits ,open his
abdomen in one long cut. While the blood flows
the multitude prostrate themselves and he is
questioned about all sorts of hidden things. The
replies are regarded as oracles. The recitation
of prayer is resumed. The lama takes blood
from his wound, breathes thrice upon it and
throws it into the air. He passes his hand over
t?e wound, closes it and everything resumes its
pristine condition. He recites a short prayer and
the multitude disperses. We do not believe
there is any deception. We are persuaded the
devil has a great deal to do with such matters.
90 THE WAY OF POWER
There are other famous supernaturalisms. They
heat irons red-hot and lick them. They make
incisions in various parts of the body which an
instant afterwards leave no traoe. All these
things are preceded by prayer."
I think these cases of mass-hypnotism very in-
teresting. It is obvious that it is a most extraor-
dinary force and power. These two men were
students of the Tibetan languages and such
earnest missionaries tha t they risked their lives
daily in Mongolia and Tibet on their successful
journey to Lhasa. It is difficult to believe they
lied. They recorded many other matters of the
same interest, attributing them to the machina-
tions of the devil. In considering such things
with an inclination to ridicule them as impossi-
ble it is interesting to remember the words of
Galvani-that man who made the earliest experi-
ments in electricity, and used frogs at first for
the purpose. He said:
"I am attacked by two classes of people, the
learned and the ignorant. Both of them treat
me with ridicule and say I am only fit to be a
dancing master for frogs. And yet I think I
have discovered one of the grandest forces in
THE WAY OF POWER 91
nature." A conclusion which none would ques-
tion.
It was certainly the belief of Sir William
Crookes, the great English scientist, that he too
had discovered a mighty force in nature unknown
and possibly dangerous to trifle with at present,
and in his belief the Indian yogins share.
I have chosen the examples given above really
at random from the mass available and regret
to have omitted so much that is interesting, in-
cluding Marco Polo's description of the occult
happenings at the court of that Mongol Emperor
of China who is best remembered by the pub-
lic as the poet Coleridge's "Kublai Khan." One
of my objects has been to show how ancient and
modern experiences join hands in an almost
equal mystification, and I especially regret not
having had space for the extraordinary and yet
proved fact of the power of certain yogins to
suspend animation and the heart-beat and in that
condition permit themselves to be buried. One
case, supported by credible eye-witnesses, is that
of the yogin Haridas, who, falling into a self-
induced trance in the presence of the Maharaja
Ranjit Singh and his court, was buried in a
garden outside Lahore. "For forty days strict
92 THE WAY OF POWER
watch was kept over the grave, and when they
ended he was exhumed, cold, stiff and uncon-
scious and restored by applying warmth to the
head and friction to the body while forcing air
gently into the lungs." He was buried in the
presence of the Maharaj a and Sir Claude Wade.
Dr. Honigberger was also at the court at the
time and cites this case.
But I must pass on.
CHAPTER VI
I MIGHT OF COURSE FILL VOLUMES WITH
modern records of this kind and I therefore have
chosen only a few witnessed by men celebrated
for one reason or another and certainly not lack-
ing in perspicuity. I now turn to one of the
most remarkable of modern times. I do not
know what others may think of it but it seems
to me worth attention and I have chosen it be-
Cl:!,use
though the events described were in India
and the performer was Indian the observer was
European, and writes with the necessary suspen-
sion of judgment.
His name was J acolliot. He was Chief J us-
tice of Chandernagore, one of the portions of
India which still remain French. The events
took place (roughly speaking) about sixty years
ago.
This man spent much of a long residence in
India in looking into the question of the "occult."
You may live all your life there and never come'
up against anything of the kind, but if you are
93
94 THE WAY OF POWER
interested and evince sympathy and understand-
ing along the right lines you will have plenty of
food for reflection. Jacolliot seems to have been
profoundly interiested in comparative religion
and a student of the Kabala, in which he asserts
he found many resembla nces with the doctrines of
the Brahmins. (It must be understood that I
condense but never alter.) He describes him-
self as no partiza n but a man who records what
he saw; adding:
"An ardent partizan would have been too
credulous and have taken all on trust. A rabid
opponent would have made it his business to
disparage and discredit. I shall tell what I saw
with my own eyes and shall faithfully record
such explanations as I received. The facts
which are simply magnetic are indisputable. As
to the facts which are purely spiritual I was only
able to explain those in which I participated
either as actor or :is spectator upon the hypothe-
sis that I was the victim of hallucination, unless
I am willing to admit that there was an occult
intervention."
He prefaces his book with the quotation from
the words spoken by the Brahmins on receiving
a candidate for initiation:
THE WAY OF POWER 95
/ "Learn that this is a mystery which should
never be revealed to the vulgar herd, otherwise
great harm may befall you."
Into his long and interesting comparisons of
the teachings of Zoroaster and the Kabala with
the books of the Brahmi:qs I will not enter, ex-
cept to say that he describes the Brahmin teachers
of his time as holding the doctrine that these
strange powers were manifestations of the
powers of the Pitris-that is, the ancestral
spirits, under the power of the triune Divinity
known under the names of Brahma, Siva and
Vishnu. He gives all the rites of initiation for
the boy, the householder, and for those who pass
beyond into the ascetic life which leads to the
higher powers-in other words, the three degrees
of initiation.
The teaching is that the ancient scriptures of
India (the Vedas) contain this knowledge
hidden within them as the soul is contained in the
body. So, in our own Scriptures, Origen, one
of the early Christian fathers traced a mystic
meaning in much that we consider that he who
runs may read/
I pass however to what .Jacolliot actually saw
and the summing up. The following pages are
96 THE WAY OF POWER
-quoted from him. Where the word "I" appears,
J acolliot must be understood as speaking
I had been a resident of Pondicherry, the
capital of the French possessions in the Carnatic
for several years, when one morning I was in-
formed that a faquir wanted to see me. I had
left Europe without the slightest ;dea of the
phenomena which the spiritualists attribute to
their mediums. As to the Hindu faquirs I con-
ceived them to be simple magicians yet I had
heard a great deal of their marvelous skill and
was anxious to see a specimen. I received him
in one of the verandas. His face was thin and
bony as that of an anchorite and his eyes, which
seemed half dead, produced a sensation such
as I once experienced when looking at the mo-
tionless orbs of a large shark. Bowing with his
hands raised to his forehead he murmured:
"I greet you respectfully, sahib. May the
immortals watch over your days. The guru
(Master) said to me this morning, 'Go and glean
at random,' and Ganesha the God of Travelers
has led me to you. What do you want of me?"
"You are said to move inert bodies without
contact. I wish to see."
THE WAY OF POWER 97
"I have no such power. I evoke spirits who
lend their aid."
"Evoke, and show me what they can do."
I-le resumed his squatting position on the
pavement, placing his seven-knotted stick be-
tween his crossed legs.
He then ask;,edto have my man bring seven
small flower-pots full of earth, seven thin sticks
of wood and seven leaves taken from any tree.
Without touching them himself he had them
placed in a horizontal line about six feet from his
outstretched arm. He told my servant to put
a stick in each pot and impale a leaf on each.
This being done the leaves dropped down to the
pots.
The faquir then pronounced an invocation,
stretched out his hands in the direction of the
pots and stood motionless in a sort of ecstasy.
Suddenly it seemed to me that my hair was
moved by a slight current of air. This was re-
peated several times. At the end of about a
quarter of an hour, the leaves began to move
slowly upward along the sticks of wood, and
then as slowly to descend. I passed and repassed
several times between the Hindu and the pots
but there was no interruption. I asked to ex-
98 THE WAY OF POWER
amine his arrangements and he agreed without
delay. I removed the leaves and sticks and
emptied out the earth. I ordered fresh pots,
earth and leaves, divided the bamboo stick myself
into seven pieces and having thus rearranged
everything placed it all at about four yards from
the faquir, who looked on unconcernedly.
He extended his arms and five minutes had
hardly elapsed when the leaves moved up and
down the stick as before. Still I would not
acknowledge defeat. I had seven holes bored in
a plank in which I placed the sticks. The phe-
nomena recurred as before. I repeated the ex-
per iment in twenty different ways but always
with the same result. He said:
"Ask anything you will. The leaves will re-
main still if the leaves have nothing to say.
Otherwise they will move up the sticks."
I had a set of raised brass letters and figures
upon a zinc block which I used to stamp my
name and numbers upon the books in the library.
I thought of a friend who had died some years
before and extracted the letters and numbers one
by one.
As I took out the letter A , the leaves began to
move to the top of the sticks and fell again. The
THE WAY OF POWER 99
first letter of my friend's name. Letter by
letter and figure by figure I obtained the follow-
ing words:
"Albain Brunier, died at Bourg-en-Bresse.
(Ain) January 3, 1856." What made my aston-
ishment greater was that I was totally unpre-
pared. I wanted to be alone and reflect. I
dismissed the faquir and made him promise to re-
turn next day at the same hour. My excitement
had disappeared but I was no nearer to a belief
in the supernatural on the morrow. I repeated
the phenomenon changing the spelling in my
mind; dwelling strongly upon each letter. I got:
"Halbin Pruniet, died," etc., but could never
change the remainder. I got such changes in the
name that no one would have recognized it, but
never in the name of the city. Hence I con-
cluded that I could not sufficiently isolate my
mind from the correct spelling of all the words
in the sentence.
[Here I think we have an interesting case of
mind-reading.]
In the last sitting the faquir gave, he lowered
one balance of a pair of scales with a peacock's
feather while the other contained about 170
pounds. By the mere imposition of hands he
100 THE WAY OF POWER
made a crown of flowers float in the air, the
atmosphere was filled with vague and indistinct
sounds and a shadowy hand drew luminous
figures in space. At the time I considered the
two latter simply as phantasmagoria. I did not
even give them the benefit of a doubt nor note
them. But in regard to the purely material facts
I applied the severest tests.
Such were my first observations at Pondi-
cherry. My judicial duties and special studies
concerning ancient India did not give me time
to continue them. From this time forward I
made notes of all the material phenomena by
which the faquirs seek to prove the existence of
the powers they claim. I am convinced there are
in nature and in man, who is a part of nature,
immense forces the laws of which are yet un-
known to us. I think that one day man will dis-
cover these laws, that things we now regard as
dreams will appear as realities, and that we shall
witness phenomena of which we have no concep-
tion. Who knows whether this force of the ego,
according to the Hindus, may not be shown to
be one of the greatest forces in nature?
Among ourselves have we not seen scientific
societies regard the telegraph as a toy fit only
THE WAY OF POWER 101
for sending messages from one room to another?
In the open air the wire was not to be relied on!
As I have been led to speak of my own views
I will say that J;he conclusion I have drawn from
what I have seen in India is that aside from the
claptrap by which it is surrounded and of which
the Hindus are very fond, there is in man
a special force acting in an unknown direction
and often intelligently, the laws of which require
to be stud~ed by unprejudiced and liberal-minded
specialists.
I lost no opportunity of attentively observing
any manifestations that bore any relation to the
subject.
Leaving Chandernagore on 3rd January 1866
I arrived at Benares. I intended to remain there
a couple of months. The Peishwa, a Mahratta
Prince at Benares with whom I had become
acquainted through the Raj ah of Chandernagore,
hearing of my arrival sent to offer me apartments
in his magnificent seven-storied palace on the
banks of the Ganges.
Here I met the most extraordinary faquir,
perhaps, that I had ever encountered in India.
He came from the extreme south of India and
his mission was to take charge of the remains of
102 THE WAY OF POWER
a rich Malabar man. The Peishwa, who was in
the habit of extending hospitality to pilgrims,
had found lodgings for him in a small thatched
cottage upon the very banks of the river in which
he had to perform his ablutions for the next three
weeks in honor of the dead. His name was
Govindaswami.
I had him brought to my apartment one day at
noon. The room in which I received him looked
out upon the terrace which in turn overlooked the
Ganges. In the middle of the terrace was a
water-spout which fell in a fine shower into a
marble basin.
I asked him to go out upon the terrace, which
was much lighter than the room and where I
could better watch him.
"Do you know whether any power is developed
in you when you perform? Did you ever feel any
change in your brain or muscles?"
"I am but an instrument. I invoke the ances-
tral spirits and it is they who manifest their
power."
The faquir was already in position with both
hands extended towards an immense bronze vase
full of water. Within five minutes it began to
rock gently to and fro upon its base and to
THE WAY OF POWER 103
approach the faquir gently and with a regular
motion. As the distance lessened metallic
sounds escaped from it as if someone had struck
it with a steel rod. I asked if I could give
directions. He consented at once.
The vase advanced, receded, or stood still,
according to my request. At one time at my
command the blows changed into a continuous
roll like that of a drum, at another they had the
slowness and regularity of a ticking clock.
Upon the table of the drawing-room stood a
musical box. I had it brought to the terrace by
my servant and I asked the force to tune the
blows struck upon the vase to accompany any
air on the instrument.
I wound up the box and a whirlwind of notes
was the result. Quick sharp strokes accompanied
the time like the baton of a conductor.
All this was done without fuss, parade or
mystery upon a terrace a few yards square.
The vase could hardly, when empty, have been
moved by two men. It received the falling jet
of water from the fountain and was used for the
morning ablutions. What was the force which
moved this mass?
The faquir, who had not left his place, then
104 THE WAY OF POWER
rested the tips of his fingers for a short time upon
the edge of the vase. It began to rock to and fro .
in regular time, gradually quickening its speed.
But what surprised me most was to see that the
water was station ary as if there were a strong
pressure which prevented its regaining its equili-
brium.
Three times during these oscillations the vase
rose to a distance of seven to eight inches com-
pletely from the ground and when it fell to the
pavement again it did so without perceptible
shock. The performance lasted several hours
during which I took copious and careful notes
and also took the precaution of having each
phenomenon repeated in a different manne r.
The faquir promised to return every day as long
as he should remain at Benares. H e was glad
to have met me. I had lived for many years in
the south of India and knew the beautiful lan-
guage of the Tamils.
I should mention that the French in India
appe ar to use the term faquir alike for the Hi ndu
and Mohammedan ascetics. This man was of
course a Hindu. His name indicates one who
bas a special reverence for the Divine in the
aspect of Kri shna .
THE WAY OF POWER 105
He returned next day and resumed his experi-
ments with the great vase.
He asked me to lend him a small stick. I
handed him an unsharpened lead pencil. He
placed it in the water and by the imposition of
his hands [upon the surf ace of the water J made
it move in every direction .like a magnet in con-
tact with an iron bar. When he placed a finger
quietly on the middle of the pencil so as not to
affect its position on the water I saw it slowly
sink beneath the surf ace until it had reached the
bottom of the vase. I state the facts without
further comment.
His third visit was short. At my request he
consented to perform a phenomenon of levitation
which I had already seen others successfullr
accomplish without taking any particular notice
of how they did it.
Taking an ironwood cane which I had brought
from Ceylon he leaned heavily on it, resting his
right hand on the handle with his eyes fixed on
the ground. He then uttered incantations.
Leaning upon the cane with one hand the
faquir rose gradually about two feet from the
ground. His legs were crossed beneath him
very like a bronze statue of the Buddha.
106 THE WAY OF POWER
For more than twenty minutes I tried to see
how Govindaswam i could thus fly in the face of
all known laws of gravity. The stick gave him
no visible support and there was no apparent
contact between that and his body except
through his right hand.
On his next visit, at night, he resumed his
performances.
Taking a small bamboo stool he sat upon it
with his legs crossed and arms folded on his
chest. The terrace was lighted like day. At
the end of a few minutes the stool began to move
noiselessly along the terrace by short jerks. The
Hindu was motionless. The terrace was about
seven yards long and as many wide. It took
about ten minutes to traverse it. The faquir's
legs crossed beneath him were distant from the
ground the whole height of the stool. Three
vases of flowers so heavy that none but a strong
man could have lifted them (and he only with
an effort) stood at one end of the terrace. He
touched the edge of one with his finger-tips. It
began to move to and fro and left the floor. It
appeared to me to be floating in the air, going
from right to left at the will of the faquir I
THE WAY OF POWER 107
have always regarded this as caused by an illu-
sion of the senses.
On his next visit-
T aking a small stand of teak which I could
lift with my thumb and forefinger I placed it in
the middle of the terrace and asked the faquir if
he could fix it there so that it could not be moved.
He imposed both hands on it for a quarter of an
hour at the end of which time I approached the
table and took hold of it. It would not stir from
the ground. I struggled harder, with the re-
sult that the fragile leaf came off in my hand.
I then took hold of the legs, which were united
by a cross brace, but the result was the same. A
thought then crossed my mind. Suppose, I
thought, that these phenomena are produced by
the faquir's charging objects with some kind of
fluid and a natural force is thus developed the
laws of which-we do not kn_ow,the supply with
which they are charged must gradually lose its
effiqiency unless renewed by the operator. I
asked the faquir to go to the other end of the
terrace, which he did. At the end of a few
minutes I could handle the stool without trouble.
" The Pitris [ancestral spirits J have gone,"
108 THE WAY OF POWER
said the Hindu, "because their means of earthly
communication was broken. They are coming
back."
He imposed his hands above an immense
copper platter inlaid with silver and almost in-
stantly came such a rapid and violent succession
of blows and knocks that it might have been
taken for hailstones on a metal roof, and I
thought I saw a succession of phosphorescent
lights pass to and fro across the platter in every
direction.
Among the Peishwa's possessions was a small
harmoniflute. With a small cord tied round the .
square forming a portion of the bellows I hung
it from one of the iron bars of the terrace so
it swung about two feet from the ground. I
asked the faquir if he could make it play without
touching it. He seized the cord by which it was
hung and stood motionless. Soon the harmoni-
flute began to be gently stirred, the bellows to
contract and expand and it emitted sounds per-
fectly plain and distinct.
"Cannot you.get a tune?"
"I will evoke the spirit of one of the old
pagoda musicians."
The instrument first played a series of notes;
THE WAY OF POWER 109
it then bravely attacked one of the most popular
Malabar airs. He stood perfectly still. He
merely held the cord by which he communicated
with the harmoniflute.
I kneeled down to see the various movements
of the instrument and I saw, unless misled by
illusion, the up and down motion of the keys.
Another time:
He brought with him a small bag of sand,
emptied it on the floor and leveled it with his
hand. He asked me to sit opposite with paper
and pencil. I gave him the handle of a penholder
which he placed on the sand.
"I am about to evoke the Pitris. When you
see the object you have just given me stand up-
right, one end only in contact with the ground,
trace on the paper any figures you please and you
will see a copy on the sand." He then extended
his hands and repeattd the formula of evocation.
The wooden rod rose gradually, and at the
same moment I moved my pencil, tracing the
strangest :figures at random. The piece of wood
imitated every motion and I saw my figures
appear successively in the sand, when I stopped
the penholder stopped, when I went on it fol-
lowed me.
110 THE WAY OF POWER
Wishing to know if he could see from his posi-
tion the movements of my pencil I left the table
and placing myself in a simil~r position to his,
satisfied myself that it was impossible for him
to see what I was doing.
Having leveled the sand again he said:
"Think of a word in Sanskrit."
He extended his hands as before. The magic
pencil began to move and wrote the word:
"Purusha" (The Heavenly Generator).
That was the word I had thought of.
"Think of a phrase ."
The pencil wrote in Sanskrit:
"Vishnu sleeps upon Mount Aikonta."
"Can the spirit give me the 243rd shloka of the
book of Manu ?" I asked.
The pencil wrote before my eyes (in Sanskrit):
"The man, the end of all whose actions is virtue,
all of whose sins are erased by acts of piety and
sacrifice, reaches the heavenly mansions radiant
with light and clothed with a spiritual form."
As a last experiment, placing my hands on a
closed book conta ining extracts from Vedic
hymns I asked for the first word of the fifth line
of the twenty-first page. The answer written was:
THE WAY OF POWER
"Devadatta ." (Given by a God.)
Comparing, it was correct.
111
"Will you now put a mental question?" said
the faquir. I moved my head and the following
was written on the sand:
"The earth."
I had asked: "Who is our common mother?"
I have no explanation or statement to make
with regard to these facts. I only describe what
I saw and assert that the circumstances are
accurately described. Materially speaking I do
not think any fraud could have been committed.
As he was about to leave me to go to his
breakfast he stopped in the embrasure of the
door leading from the terrace to the outside
stairs and crossing his arms upon his chest lifted
himself up gradually without any apparent sup-
port (in the air) to the height of about ten to
twelve inches. I could determine the distance
exactly. Behind his back was a silk hanging
striped in gold and white bands of equal width.
His feet were on a level with the sixth band. I
had seized my chronometer: the entire time from
the moment when he began to rise until he
touched the ground again was more than eight
112 THE WAY OF POWER
minutes. I asked him if he could repeat this when
he pleased.
"The faquir," he answered emphatically, "can
lift himself as high as the clouds."
[Again J acolliot gives a most interesting
account of rapid growth. J
Among the claims advanced by the faquirs is
that they can directly influence the growth of
plants. I had already seen this done a number of
times but regarded it as a successful fraud. On
his arrival I told him what I intended.
"I am entirely at your service."
"May I choose the earth, the vessel, and the
seed which you are to make grow?" I asked.
"The vessel and the seed, yes. The earth must
be taken from a nest of carias."
These little ants, who build for shelter small
hills, are very common in India and there was no
difficulty. I told my servant to bring me a
flower-pot and differing seeds. I took them and
dismissed him. To the faquir I handed the flower-
pot filled with a whitish earth which must have
been saturated with that milky fluid which the
ants · secrete and deposit upon their building
earth. I chose at random a pawpaw seed and
THE WAY OF POWER 113
asked him to allow me to mark it. I made a
slight cut in its outer skin, and gave it to him
with a few yards of mosquito cloth. [This of
course is a kind of muslin.]
"I shall soon sleep the sleep of the spirits. You
must promise you will neither touch me nor the
t " '
po.
I promised.
He then planted the seed in the earth, now like
liquid mud , thrusting his. seven-knotted stick
into a corner of the vessel, using it a.s a prop to
hold up the piece of muslin. He sat down upon
the floor, stretched both hands horizontally above
him and fell into a deep cataleptic sleep.
At first I could not tell whether his sleep was
real, but when at the end of half an hour he had
not stirred I was forced to believe no man was
able except in that condition to hold both his
arms stretched horizontally before him. An hour
passed by. He looked like a bronze statue of
evocation.
At first I took my place opposite him but that
soon became unendurable. His eyes seemed half
dead but full of magnetic influences. Without
losing sight of him I took a seat at the end of the
114 THE WAY OF POWER
terrace. I had been waiting for a couple of hours
when a low sigh startled me. ,-,,
He made signs for me to approach. Remov-
ing the muslin that hid the pot he pointed to a
young stalk of pawpaw fresh and green and
nearly eight inches high. He thrust his fingers
into the ground and carefully taking up the plant
he showed me upon one of the two cuticles still
adhering to the roots the cut I had made two
hours before.
Was it the same seed and the same cut? I no-
ticed no substitution. He had not left the terrace.
I had not lost sight of him. He could not con-
ceal a plant in his clothes for he was almost
entirely naked, and could not have told in ad-
vance that I should choose a pawpaw seed among
thirty different kinds my servant had brought.
He said:
"If I had continued my evocations longer the
pawpaw tree would have borne flowers in eight
days and fruit in fifteen."
Bearing in mind the accounts of Hue the mis-
sionary [already quoted] and what I had myself
witnessed in the Carnatic I said there were other
performers who could accomplish this in two
hours.
/
THE WAY OF POWER 115
"You are mistaken. In the manifestations
you speak of there is an apport of fruit trees by
the spirits. What I have just shown you is really
spontaneous vegetation, but the pure fluid under
the direction of the Pitris was never able to pro-
duce the three phases of germination, flowering,
and fruiting in one day."
There is one fact I should not omit which may
be of service. There are a multitude of kitchen
plants which, put at dawn into moist soil and
exposed to the influence of a sun whicp. does
wonders, appear above the ground by noon and
at the close of day are nearly half an inch high,
on the othe:i;hand I am bound to say at least
fifteen days are necessary for the germination
of a pawpaw seed.
The next sitting was devoted to apparitions.
He was entirely naked when he came .in and
his seven-knotted stick was fastened to a lock
of his long hair.
"Nothing unholy," he said, "should come in
contact with the body of the evocator."
My bedroom was·on a level with the terrace.
I set apart both for our experiment, and care-
fully shut and fastened all outside doors. In
the center of each was a coco-oil lamp protected
116 THE WAY OF POWER
by a glass shade di:ffusing a light sufficiently in-
tense to enable anyone to read the smallest type
in the remotest corner. There was a small copper
furnace with burning coals, on which are burned
from time to time a few pinches of perfumed
powder. He placed one in the center of the
terrace, by its side a copper platter filled with
fragrant powder, took his seat on the floor with
his arms folded across his chest and commenced a
long incantation. This done he remained in the
same position motionless, his left hand on his
heart, his right leaning on the seven-knotted
stick.
I thought he would drop into a cataleptic
sleep, but no. From time to time he pressed his
hand against his forehead. I experienced a sud-
den shock. A slight phosphorescent cloud
formed, from which semblances of hands seemed
to come and go with great rapidity. In a few
minutes they lost their vaporous appearance and
resembled human hands. Some became as it
were more material; -
others more luminous. I
counted sixteen.
When I asked if I could touch them, one
breaking away from the rest flew toward me
and pressed my hand. It was small, supple and
(
THE WAY OF -POWER 117
moist, like the hand of a young woman. It
threw a rosebud at my feet and vanished.
For nearly two hours a scene ensued calculated
to set my head in a whirl. A hand brushed my
face or fanned it with a fan. It would scatter
a shower of flowers or trace in the air characters
of fire ; words which vanished as the last letter
was written. Some of these were so striking that
I wrote them down hastily. (They were in
Sanskrit.)
"I have clothed myself with a fluidic body."
"You will attain bliss when you lay aside this
transitory body."
Meanwhile flashes of lightning seemed to dart
about. Gradually the hands disappeared; we
found a garland of those yellow flowers with
penetrating perfume [marigolds J which the
Hindus use in all their ceremonies.
I offer no explanation. I relate. The doors
of both rooms were closed. I had the keys in my
pocket and the faquir had not changed his posi-
tion. To these succeeded two others.
A cloud hovered near the little b:r~zier, which
at the Hindu's request I had fed. It assumed the
human form of aJl 9ld Brahmin priest kneeling;
the sign of Vishnu on his forehead, girdled with
118 THE WAY OF POWER
the triple cord. He seemed to pray. He took a
pinch of perfumed powder and threw it on the
coals. It emitted a thick smoke; when it dis-
persed I noticed the specter less than six feet
distant. It held out its hands; I took them in my
own and found them warm and human. "Are
you," I asked, "a former inhabitant of the earth?"
The word "Yes" (Am) appeared and disap-
peared in letters of fire on his bosom.
"Will you leave me something as a token?"
He broke the triple cord, gave it to me and
faded away. I supposed the seance was over and
was going to raise the movable curtains which
shaded the terrace, for the heat was suffocating.
Suddenly I heard a strange tune. I saw the
phantom of a musician gliding along the wall.
He held a harmoniflute, which appeared impossi-
ble, as the Peishwa had sent for his the day
before. When he had made the circuit of my
room and the terrace he disappeared and I
found the instrument where he had vanished. It
was actually the Rajah's harmoniflute.
Govindaswami then rose. He was covered
with perspiration and seemed exhausted. He
accepted my presents, made the parting salaam
and disappeared. I threw myself on a hammock
THE WAY OF POWER 119
for a few hours' rest. When I woke· and re-
membered, it seemed a dream. Yet there was
the harmoniflute. The floor of the terrace was
still strewn with flowers, the garland lay on the
divan and the notes I had written had not van-
ished.
J acolliot in an interesting passage gives the
conditions in which the true yogins operate.
These should be noted. They are as follows:
They are accompanied by no assistant or con-
federate.
They are completely naked save for a small
piece of linen about as large as the hand.
They are acquainted with none of the appara-
tus our European jugglers need.
They have nothing in their possession but a
small wand of seven knots of young bamboo as
big as the handle of a penholder, which they hold
in the right hand, and a small whistle about three
inches long which they fasten to one of the locks
of their long straight hair, for, having no clothes,
they must otherwise hold it.
They operate as the person they visit desires,
either sitting or standing or on the marble,
120 THE WAY OF POWER
granite or stucco pavement of the veranda or the
bare ground.
VV:henthey need a subject for magnetic or
sonambulistic phenomena they take any of the
servants you may choose, or a European if he is
willing to serve.
If they need any article such as a musical in-
strument, a cane, a paper, a pencil, etc., they
will ask you to fur_
nish it.
.They will repeat any experiments in your
presence as many times as you require and will
submit to any test.
They never ask any pay, merely accepting as
alms for their -temple whatever you choose to
offer.
I have traveled in every direction for many
years and can truthfully state that I have never
seen a single faquir who was not willing to com-
ply with these conditions.
J acolliot is no believer himself in spiritualism
in the ordinary sense of the word. It is true that
many of the performers claim, as above, that
these supernorma l feats are done by "spirit
force" which they some of them, as above, inter-
THE WAY OF POWER 121
pret as the power of the Pitris, the ancestral
spirits. Jacolliot, however, writes:
I will say what I mean by the words "spirit
force." I mean the alliance between the intellect
and the spiritual in order to act upon inanimate
objects,-without predetermining in any way the
cause which sets this force in motion.
The supreme cause of all phenomena accord-
ing to the Brahmins is the pure akasha fluid
which is diffused through nature and puts ani-
mate and inanimate beings in communication
with each other. Heat, electricity, all the forces
of nature are but modes of action and states of
this fluid. The being who possesses an excess
of it acquires a proportionate power over animate
beings not so highly favored and over inanimate
beings. Spirits themselves are sensible to this
influence.
According to some Brahmins akasha is the
moving thought of the Universal Soul directing
all souls, who would be in constant communica-
tion with each other if the gross envelope of the
body did not in a measure prevent. Thus the
more the soul disentangles itself from the body
by contemplation the more sensible it becomes;
122 THE WAY OF POWER
to this Universal fluid by which all beings, visible
or invisible are united. I confine myself to the
role of an interpreter and nothing more.
So writes Jacolliot. He adds:
As to the last class of cases (apparitions and
the production of material objects) I should have
. omitted them altogether from the present work,
as shunning scientific investigation if (remember-
ing that all religions with Christianity at their
head included such phenomena in their mysteries
and miracles) I had not thought it would be at
least a matter of historical curiosity to set forth
the nature of these singular practices-in com-
mon use in India at the present day-which are
so well adapted to influence the popular mind
and which formed the basis of all the ancient
superstitions.
It will be observed that Jacolliot is very cau-
tious in his manner of statement and rightly so.
He calls however for investigation and I believe
he would have done so more loudly had he lived
in the present day and seen the advance of science
along lines which would have appeared to him
equally miraculous with those which the faquir
developed before him in the palace of the
THE WAY OF POWER 123
Peishwa in Benares. I recommend all to read
his book "Occult Science in India," the first and
longer part of which is devoted to examining the
resemblances between supernormal beliefs in
various parts of the world. All must drp,w their
own conclusions but I think myself justified in
describing him as a believer in the existence of
some powerful and universal force which can be
used by certain people and in certain conditions
to produce results which the uninstructed would
describe as "miraculous."
CHAPTER VII
HYPNOTISM HAS BEEN MENTIONED IN CONNEC-
tion with some of these phenomena which I have
quoted. What is the object of connecting hyp-
notism with the occult since it is known to be
allied with certain physical processes? It may
be said: "Yes, hypnotism was once considered
occult but is now transferred to the domain of
science. Why consider it in such a book as
this?"
My answer is that I think every manifesta-
tion of the true occult is on its way to recogni-
tion in the domain of science, and by science I
mean the knowledge which understands causes
and processes and can therefore use them to its
own ends. But because it is obvious that this
definition applies very partially to the science
of the present day, which is ignorant as a child
in presence of the matters that most seriously
concern us, I believe the science of the future will
be placed on a very different basis from that of
today. It will be based on the consciousness of
124
THE WAY OF POWER 125
man rather than on his sense perceptions. But
there is another reason why hypnotism should
be discussed in a book on the occult. It is a fact
that anything which lulls the reason-i.e., the ob-
jective guardian of the ordinary ego-to sleep,
may be and often is a straight way to the Land
behind the Looking Glass. Only a temporary
way, be it understood. The path vanishes as the
sleeper wakes. He may never find it again un-
less under the same condition or further along
the path of evolution, but for the moment the
mirror on which the senses project their show is
cracked and he sees through it. And here also
we touch one of the differences between the East
and West-which is very material to the subject
in hand, though of course in each case there are
exceptions. In the West the hypnotizer imposes
his own will on the subject. He causes him to
act, to remember as he chooses; the subject be-
comes a mere vehicle for the impressions of the
operator. And if those are concerned with ob-
taining certain results or the proof of a theory,
nothing more than these can be expected from
the subject. The results therefore in the West
are not especially interesting and can be pre-
dicted.
i26 THE WAY OF POWER
In the East amongst those who are adepts in
the subject, the process is quite different. There
is no imposition of the practicer's will upon the
subject. The intention is to send the objective
self to sleep and so to set the ·higher conscious-
ness of the subject free for his own experiences
according to the power and vision he possesses
in himself. The word of power is: "I loose you.
Go." It is obvious that very much more in-
teresting and unexpected results can be had upon
these lines though of course they will be strictly
conditioned by the stage of psychic evolution
reached by the subject. The cases which I have
given from Ibn Batuta and the Emperor Jehan-
gir may have some relation to this, and I
very much wish I had space for the results of
self-hypnosis in this connection. I think there is
no doubt that in some of the low forms of Yoga
-or what may be bettey called its baser imita-
tions, there is a great deal of self-hypnosis and
the results are what might be expected. I am
inclined also to think that some of the crimes
of our own civilization are due to conscious or
unconscious action of this type. It is a very in-
teresting subject, which would repay investig a-
tion. I believe one of the root causes of the love
THE WAY OF POWER 127
of opiates in the East and alcohol in the West
is the unconscious longing to be free of the
bondage of the senses, to get beyond them into
some region where troubles are left behind and
life is a dream of pleasure. The drunkard's
paradise is pretty much what one would expect
it to be. Singularly enough opium and hashish
appear to have a different and higher effect in
spite of the eventual ruin they entail. The
famous case of De Quincey must be recalled, and
the visions, melancholy, terrible, true and beau-
tiful, which he saw under the influence of opium
and has recorded in words worthy of their
beauty.
Here again chapters might be written of the
visions of Asiatics induced in this way, and I be-
lieve that some of the foretellings and jugglings
are certainly performed by men under this in-
fluence or that of the smoking of charas; but this
is not difficult to distinguish when one has ex-
perience. I believe that tobacco-smoking offers
in a very minor and puerile degree the same sort
of dulling and soothing of the objective self, in-
ducing dreaming states, and that this is why men
and women have taken to it with avidity.
In this connection Professor J ames's wonder-
128 THE WAY OF POWER
ful book, "Varieties of Religious Experience,"
should be studied. His opinions on the power of
narcosis to produce these brief flashes of the
occult or mystic state are extremely interesting.
He says:
"This is a realm that public opinion and ethical
philosophy have long since branded as patho-
logical though private practice and certain lyric
strains of poetry seem still to bear witness of
its ideality. Nitrous oxide and ether, especially
nitrous oxide, when sufficiently diluted with air,
stimulate the mystic consciousness to an extraor-
dinary degree. Depth beyond depth of truth
seems revealed to the inhaler. The truth fades
out, however, or escapes , at the moment of com-
ing to and if any words remain over in which
it seemed to clothe itself these prove to be the
veriest nonsense. Nevertheless the sense of a
profound meaning persists and I know more than
one person who is persuaded that in the nitrous
oxide trance we have a genuine metaphysical
revelation.''
In view of what I have written already it is
quite natural that the nitrous oxide trance should
by a means of revelation for those and only those
who have reached a certain stage of psychic evo-
THE WAY OF POWER 129
Jution, and I fully agree with Professor James
when he sums up the conclusions his investiga-
tions have left him (I condense) :
"Looking back on my experiences they all con-
verge toward a kind of insight to which I cannot
help ascribing some metaphysical significance.
The keynote of it is invariably a reconciliation.
It is as if the opposites of the world whose
contradictions and conflict make all our difficul-
ties and trouble were melted into unity. Not
only do they, as contrasted species, belong to
one and the same genus, but one of the species,
the nobler and better one, is itself the genus, and
so soaks up and absorbs its opposite into itself.
This is a dark saying, I know, when thus ex-
pressed in terms of common logic, but I cannot
wholly escape from its authority. Those who
have ears to hear, let them hear! I have friends
who believe in the anesthetic revelation."
It seems to me to be a matter of certainty that
the true and universal self in man may be occa-
sionally liberated in this way, and, as to what
is left behind sometimes sounding like nonsense,
it must be remembered that in the Land behind
the Looking Glass our logic is nonsense, and the
truth as revealed there must appear to us to be
130 THE WAY OF POWER
dreams of madmen if we view them from the
world of the senses. They have certainly often
been so recorded.
I had once a most extraordinary dream shot
through and through with beauty ~s a jewel with
lights and perfections. I dreamed that I must
write it down at once lest so much loveliness
should escape me. But when I waked only one
grotesque phrase survived-so grotesque though
apparently meaningless that I never forgot it.
Mu ch later,-years after , events illuminated that
phr ase so that what it conveyed had become one
of the most important events of my life. I be-
lieve the same might prove true of many of the
remains of "veriest nonsense" of which Professor
James writes, if they could be traced through the
after life of the percipients. It will be interest-
ing to give some specimens of experience under
narcosis, and the first is of great value because it
relates to a realization of time as the eternal
"Now" of Indian Yoga. It was that of a man
named Clark, who died young. (I condense.)
"In the first place the revelation is, if any-
thin g, non-emotional. It is the one sole and
sufficient insight of how the prese nt is pushed
THE WAY OF POWER 131
on by the past and becomes the future. The real
secret would be the formulre by which the 'now'
keeps exfoliating out of itself yet never escapes.
Ordinary philosophy is like a hound hunting
his own tail. His nose never catches up with his
heel~. So the present is a foregone conclusion
and I am ever too late to understand it. [It has
become the past before one can grasp it.J But at
the moment of recovery from anesthesis, then,
before starting on life, I catch, so to speak, a
glimpse of my heels, a glimpse of the eternal
process just in the act of starting. That is why
there is a smile upon the face of revelation as
we view it. It tells us we are forever half a
second too late.
" 'You could kiss your own lips and have all
the fun to yourself,' it says, 'if you only knew
the trick. It would be perfectly easy if they
would just stay there until you got around to
them. )Vhy don't you manage it somehow?' "
And the whole secret of the true occult is to
know how to make one's own lips wait until one
gets round to them, and in kissing them one kisses
the universe. That is Yoga with all its powers,
132 THE WAY OF POWER
revealing, in the immortal words of Plotinus, the
great Neo-Platonic philosopher, the truth:
"For that which sees is itself the thing which is
seen." The transcendental logic of the Land be-
hind the Looking Glass where "A can be both A
and not A"! This is exactly what the percipient
has realized in that experience.
Here is another experience-that of a woman
who had taken ether for a surgical operation:
"I wondered if I was in a prison being tor-
tured. My last dream immediately preceded my
coming to. It only lasted a few seconds and was
most vivid and real to me though it may not be
clear in words.
"A great Power was traveling through the sky,
his foot on a kind of lightning as a wheel is on a
rail: it was his pathway. The lightning was
made of innumerable spirits and I was one of
them. Each part of the streak or flash came into
its short conscious existence only that he might
travel. I felt my flexibility and helplessness. He
bended me, turning his corner by means of my
hurt, and at the acutest point of [my agony J as
he passed, I SAW.
"I understood for a moment things I have now
THE WAY OF POWER 133
forgotten, things that no one could remember
while retaining sanity.
"He went and I came to. In that moment the
whole of my life passed before me, including
each little meaningless piece of distress, and I '
understood them. This was what it all meant.
On waking I realized that in that half-hour under
ether I had served God more distinctly and
purely than I had ever done in my life before or
than I am capable of desiring to do. I was the
means of His achieving and revealing something
to someone, I know not what or to whom. With
that I came finally into what seemed a dream-
world compared with the reality of what I was
leaving.'_¥'
1 I shdG°
ld like to draw attention to one sentence
(in this experience :
\ "In that moment the whole of my life passed
before me.''
This is a common experience of those who have
been caught back at the last instant from death
lby drowning; it occurs also to those who are on
:the threshold of death in other ways and yet re-
iturn. The explanation, I think, undoubtedly is
the light of the higher consciousness breaking
.through as the body crumbles, revealing Time
134 THE WAY OF POWER
f again as the Eternal Now. The dying man looks
up and sees the past, present and future fused
l into a picture in which all parts are simultaneous.
/ They are one and always were. Yoga again,
· and the explanation of clairvoyance, prophecy
and many more of the strange signals the true
11
occult flings out to assure us that Reality is there
,for the finding!
I That a flash here and there of truth can be
1
caught by the man whose objective self is
\ strangled in the grip of narcosis is a most inter-
,esting fact, but I need hardly say it is no recom-
1mendation to making the great escape into
/ Reality in that particular way. None of these
:,things offer the true road. How should they?
1I think even those dullings and lullings of the
tobjective self in East and West to which I have
•alluded in this chapter are a serious risk and
;damage to the body-the instrument by which
the psyche of man manif ests,-and in obscurer
\ways than that are also a peril.
How should people who live the ordinary lives
of Western civilization hope to see into what is
'_
described in the East by those who know, as "the
Formless, the Beautiful, the Utterly Desirable"?
To injure the body, to force a glimpse of the
THE WAY OF POWER 135
~ higher consciousness by mechanical means is no
true way to the enfranchisement of the psyche.
'.Many voluptuaries in psychic sensation have dis-
lcovered this to their cost. It is in the union of
:the best, the highest, the simplest, in the union
of body, mind and psyche that the Way lies and
dn that only, and in studying the principles of
.Yoga this is forcibly brought before the student.
In an article published before I had resolved to
.write fully on these hidden matters I said:
· "But where shall wisdom be found and where
is the place of understanding? In small begin-
nings, in a certain personal austerity and cir-
cumspectness (in the East they call it re-col-
lectedness) which need not be ostentatious, which
is not disquieted by passion or opinion. This the
great faiths have taught. They recognized with
true psychological instinct that here was a gate
to the eternal Way, to looking upon the lower_
satisfactions of life as stranglers of the real jpy$.
M~r t tl~
·;~ hi1
t;;;-;i;:
:~
;b; s co~
;·fr'c;;;;:
'tcyi n,g to
adapt man to his environment instead of his
environment to man. The wise asceticism is a
perpetual appeal to joy.!I t throws a·sid~the use-:··
less ourderis. "'t rifle~t ~ ii~ "t~aching ofthe ·
wise of -i lf ii~tion ;--;-
~d r -rec·all none wh~·has ·ri~t
136 THE WAY OF POWER
taught that self-discipline is what makes the man
-
the master of his'fate hi the only wa
y inwhich he --
need care to r~le it. Meng_-Tsu, one' of the wise
riie
nofChiiia, ~is/in her antiquity, said a re-
memberable thing in this connection:
l
"'That in which men differ from beasts is a
thing very inconsiderable; the wise are wise be-
'CJ,
USethey preserve it carefully.'
~ "It is a stern saying. It recognizes, with
Froude's definition of the Roman stoic, that
'men who are the slaves of their habits are
miserable and impotent, and insists that pers.onal
inclinations shall be subordinated. It prescribes
plainness of life that the number of our necessi-
ties shall be as few as possible, and in placing the
happiness of life in intellectual and moral action
it destroys the temptation to sensual gratifica-
tion '/
j So runs the creed of the great Romans. And
J this is the only safe and eternal way to the true
/ occult-to the Land concealed by the dazzling
1
phantasmagoric show of the senses. That there
\ are by-paths none can deny and they must be
/ stated in any honest study of the occult, but
there is only one safe way, and it is encouraging
to remember that all the faiths have marked that
THE WAY OF POWER 137
; truth on their charts however they may have dif-
. fered in matters of less importance. The type of
. man thus produced is the only hope of a race
··worthy to inherit the universe in the sense of
,developing the higher consciousness which alone
'can save us from our blunderings in the dark-
)ened cave of the senses in which we live. Do we
. reed such men in our teeming cities? H ave not
even the revelations of science based on the
material and physical helped to rivet our fetters
more closely by making self-indulgence and
"pleasure" more attainable to the many as well
as to the few?
I
I am not preaching a sour austerity,-many
of the pleasures of life are lovely and innocent
Iand lead directly to the doors of the true occult.
But they are the simple ones.
Often in Japan for instance I have watched the
crowds who stream out to share in the delight of
the seasonal blossomings-unconsciously drink-
ing in the occult and mystic influences of nature.
I recall a day in autumn in a beautiful place be-
yond Kyoto when the maples had broken into
their utmost glorious conflagration of russet-red,
rose-red, fiery red, burning far away over the
138 THE WAY OF POWER
hills and reflecting themselves in a lake and a
little river as if the very earth could not contain
their splendor and they flung it on into a purer
element.
Many hundreds of Japanese families had
come out to see the wonder, not in any noisy or
drunken way of enjoyment but simply to sit and
absorb it quietly. Whole famil ies from children
to grandparents. It was impossible to avoid a
feeling of envy for one's own country in seeing
that sight and the evident feelings it produced.
I remembered those who knew and who had said
to me, "Every Japanese child is a potential
artist." That is a glittering gene rality which
like others may not be wholly true, but I myself
believe it to be very largely true , and such things
as I have described confirmed me in the belief.
And if it be true, let it be remembered that art,
not misused, is a straight highway to one of the
gates 9f the Land behind the Looking Glass.
Thus, as I have quoted above, what is seen is
one with him who sees, and, in the words of a
Chinese thi~er, "the secret, of art lies in the
~ .. ii,~ .. ~ ,,.,,, •• ..-..:a~
...
~~.. • .....
~_,_
~ t,"-and J~
,jl .
~
tl,al!P~-
~;y
ty, _
~
Il~~!!.~~ 4!,
to the Land behind the Looking Glass must be-
..... ,.~........ ,._ - ..... ,, '. .•. .... . ... .,.. ........ ,. ' .., ·~ .......
-~~.... ..... ' , . ~,t'"'7,1ft
THE WAY OF POWER 139
gin with entire self-obedience and forgetfJ.Il:~l
J!S
.s .
of tneegot liafi t maf i:
~s
~gp{i~
j!,seJ{; ~i :r .~r,t.,~£,.
the ·whole:· 'rliat ·co'ndition is the Guardian of the .
frate "'
and thds'e'wno '"
search for realization of th~-.
tr e occult lffiow·this'~fthpas;io~.
: '· ,, · · ' ·
-H ea:r the cry 'of Blake- ··hewho was among the
greatest of occultists , who was free to come and
go in the Land behind the Looking Glass after
his fashion:
"I will go down to self-annihilation and eternal D eath ,
Lest the last Judgment come and find Irie unannihilate
And I be seized and given into the hands of my own self-
hood."
There is indeed no darker hell for, while it
persists, the very psyche of man is shriveled in
its flames and the five senses hold him with the
five red-hot fetters of ignorance. Very poor
foreshadowings indeed are the unconscious flashes
of revelation set beside the steadily ordered pur-
pose of a lifetime, building by the tools of dis-
cipline step by step before a man the upward
way upon which the feet may be planted in safe
foreseeing certainty. Only such a man, after
such a preparation, conscious in this life, for-
gotten but evolved in preceding lives, is fit to be
trusted with the hidden powers. And that this is
140 THE WAY OF POWER
true the long history of aberr ations and crimes in
the occult witnesses, together with the longer
history of ruin under the influences of drugs,
especially of narcotics.
CHAPTER VIII
(In the four following chapters I quote l,argely
from studies of their faith written by great
Indians ancient and modern.)
IT IS TAUGHTIN INDIA THATTHEREARE FOUR
roads, by each of which Yoga may be attained:
perfect Yoga being understood to signify the
concentration on or union with the uniyersal Self
which produces Realization, release from igno-
rance, liberation of the soul, and the powers.
They are the Way of Action, the Way of the
Intellect, the Way of Love and Devotion, and
the Royal Yoga, which leads directly to the pos-
session of the supernormal powers. A little should
be said of each of the first three before passing
on to the last, for it is not everyone who can,
even if he would, devote himself to the hard
discipline there prescribed, and there is a way for
all-even for the very simple or the highly in-
tellectual-to l!>pproach the knowledge of the
141
142 THE WAY OF POWER
powers latent within himself. I have thought
that the well-known parable of the Christ re-
ferring to the men who possessed the talents
alludes to this very thing, for all have this mine
within themselves if they care to dig for the
silver, gold or diamonds it contains, each in their
relative value. One m~n is condemned by the
Christ because he hid his talent in a napkin and
did not trouble himself further; the others made
varying uses of theirs, and the moral drawn is
the necessity of diligence in the pursuit of the
real Wisdom.
There is a beautiful Indian parable illustrating
the truth that each of these Yogas or disciplines
leads straight to possession of the supernormal
powers of body, mind, and spirit:-
A king in India used to demand of every great
ascetic who possessed all the occult powers,
"Which is the greater man-he who gives up the
world to attain them or he who lives in the world
and performs his duties as a householder?" Some
said, "He who gives up the world." But when he
demanded proof they could not prove this and he
compelled them to marry and become house-
holders. There came one day an ascetic with a
THE WAY OF POWER 143
face of wisdorp., and on the king's questioning
him he replied:
"The householder and he who forsakes the
world are equally great: each in his own way.
Come with me and I will prove it."
And the king agreed.
So they went on a long journey to the chief
city of another kingdom and there was all the
rejoicing tumult of a high festival, for the beau-
tiful princess, daughter of the king, was to choose
her husband according to th~ ancient custom of
India. Amid the assembled court and in view of
the people she would throw a garland about the
neck of her choice and none would question her
will. And the king and the ascetic stood to see
what she would do. · Near them stood a young
ascetic of such amazing beauty that the eyes of
all followed him, and when the princess was
borne in, radiant in loveliness, she too saw him,
and cast her garland about his neck, thus choos-
ing him for her h:µ.sband. And the crowd re-
joiced, for his was a heart-winning and spiritual
beauty. He took the garland from his neck and
gave it to her, saying with calm:
"My heart is fixed on other things. To me this
is nothing." And he left the assembly, making
144 THE WAY OF POWER
his way to the great forest, leaving behind him
love, beauty, wealth and a kingdom, as if all were
dross.
The princess sprang from her jeweled throne
and followed him on foot, drawn by Love, the
great Seducer, but he neither turned nor looked
at her and so going steadfastly onward was lost
in the forest; and there the king and his teacher,
when they followed, found her sobbing and alone.
And it was late in the evening.
So, taking pity, they said to her:
"Here is a great tree. We will all rest under
it and tomorrow we will restore you to your
father."
A bird's nest was in the tree where he lived
with his wife and three nestlings. And looking
down he saw and said:
"Wife, what must we do? Here are guests
and it is winter and they have no fire to warm
them." So he flew away and finding a small
burning stick dropped it before them, and they
lighted a fire. ·
Still watching, he said:
"Wife, they have no food. On us lies the
duty as householders and hosts of providing it.
I must do my part, I will give them my body."
THE WAY OF POWER 145
And he flew down into the flame and was
killed, and the bird-wife seeing this, said:
"Here are three persons and only one little
bird for them to eat,-it is not enough. Also
it is my duty to second my husband's endeavor."
So she too flew down into the fire, and the little
ones accepting it as their duty also followed ~he
example their parents had set them and fulfilled
the guest-right, going cheerfully to death.
The princess, the king and the ascetic could
neither eat nor sleep in beholding the action of
the creatures who showed such high nobility. And
next morning the two men restored her to her
father. Then said the sannyasin (ascetic) to the
traveling king:
"You have now seen that each is equally great
in his own place. If you live in the world, hold
yourself ready like these birds at all times to
sacrifice yourself for the love of others. If you
renounce the world resemble that young man
whom neither love nor beauty nor wealth could
tempt from the straight way of the spirit. But
remember this always: The duty of the one is
never the duty of the other.''
And the king went home, comprehending. So
ends the parable.
THE WAY OF POWER
Now this first means of approach to the true
occult is so simple as to be within reach of all
who have the faintest glimpse of desire for prog-
ress and power in the only world that is real-
the world of the Hidden, the Beautiful, the True
-the universe of Power. It is called the Yoga
of Action. And the first instruction is: Con-
sider your ideal,-the self which you would be if
you could choose. Consider it even from the
point of view of the so-called palpable world
about you, and having considered proceed to
realize it in yourself. It may be very far from
a perfect ideal but at the moment it is your best
and therefore it clearly indicates the path along
which you must travel to the Land behind the
Looking Glass. No two ideals can be, or indeed
ought to be, the same, and this was recognized in
India in the four great divisions of caste to which
I must not diverge at present.
The first definite rule is that a man must la-
bor steadfastly at the duties he has chosen or that
have chosen him, and that, doing this faithfully,
the results must not trouble him. They are not
his concern. Example. Benefit others in so far
as it is possible, but do not let the question
of their gratitude or ingratitude trouble you.
THE WAY OF POWER 147
Accomplish to the limit of your powers, but if
they attract the world's notice set no value on
the fame they bring. That is not your concern,
and the reason why it is not,.,,
is obvious. The
desire for fame is one of those things on which
the sense of personality, selfhood, egoism, feeds
and fattens. Therefore it stands as a lion in the
way of achievement in a system which demands
oblivion of self and realization of union.
It is unnecessary ,to recite the morali ~ om-
mon to all humanity (it may almost be said) of
duties to parents, husband, wife, children,
friends, Hie poor, and as a citizen. But there
are instructions in this Indian system of Yoga as
a means to an end which differ from the Christian
ideal and are certainly worth consideration.
The householder is to work as an ordinary man
at his profession and the things which concern
him and his family. The profession must not be
one which in itself implies wrong-doing. He must
do his best to succeed in his profession and the
acquisition of wealth by fair means is in no way
forbidden. He is to be a center in life and in
'• social matters and the distribution of his wealth
¼ along right lines will advantage all. The house-
holder who acquires wealth by good means and
148 THE WAY OF POWER
1 for good purposes is walking the Way (though it
is another Way) to the same end as surely as the
1 ascetic. In him we see a different aspect of the
1
selfsame virtues of self-surrender and self-
~ oblivion. He must not gamble, however; he must
I not move in the companionship of the wicked; he
· must speak the truth always. He must speak
gently. He must not be the cause of trouble to
jothers. The householder by aiding great social
·aims goes toward the same goal as the greatest
yogin beyond the bondage of the three spheres.
' If the householder dies in battle :fighting for his
1country and faith he comes to the same goal as
~
the yogin does by meditation.
But now comes the difficult part. The free-
dom of the soul is the goal of all Yoga however
reached. By action men may attain the same
goal which the Christ gained as a Bhakti (the
1 path of utter love and devotion) or the Buddha
as a Jnana (that of high intellect and philoso-
phy) . But how is he who lives and works in the
f ordinary concerns of the world "to free his soul"?
l
He is to work like a master, not a slave; his
work is never to bind or attach his soul. It is all
to be done through freedom and love, for all
THE WAY OF POWER 149
selfish work is slave's work. When a man can
\ love his wife, children, countrymen, mankind, the
\ world and the universe, and when his actions
j spring from that root, he is a true yogin of work,
) and his spirit is unattached and winged.
f Do you ask a return from your children for
what you have done for them? Do so no more.
\ Work for them and let the matter end there.
)
In what you do for persons, cities, or the State,
expect nothing in return. If you hold the posi-
tion where all you give is given without the least
thought of return and as a free offering to the
world, then your work will never bind you.
Attachment follows only when return is ex-
pected.
So in the sacrifice made by the householder-
1birds in the parable quoted above, no fetters held
· them to life and they were free as the immortal
l gods. Surely the Yoga of action, of the man who
~ lives in the world, .is at least as difficult as that
fof the ascetic, and it is no wonder that it should
Ilead him straight mto the hidden heart of Reality
\ and Power.
And here I will use another Indian parable
which illustrates this Yoga of action. ,
150 THE WAY OF POWER
A young sannyasin (ascetic) had given him-
self to the strictest Raja Yoga discipline. Medi-
ta~ing in the· forest one day some leaves fell about
him and looking up he saw a crow and crane
fighting. Fury possessed him at the insult to his
quiet, and il- flash of fire shot from his head and
destroyed the birds. He rejoiced to recognize
power and to feel himself a. yogin of full attain-
ment. He went into,the town to beg his bread as
usual and, at the entrance of a house, called:
"Mother [the usual Indian address], ,give me
food.P
"Wait a little, my son," said a voice from
within.
Pride at once assailed him and in his heart he
thought:
"Wretched woman-how dare you keep me
waiting!"
Instantly the voice answered:
"You are thinking too much of yourself. Here
is no case of the crow and the crane."
Dumb with astonishment at this, he waited un-
til the woman came with her alms and then he
fell at her feet.
"Mother, how could you know?"
She answered:
THE WAY OF POWER 151
"My son, I kno'Y n~ Yoga practices. I am an
ordinary woman, but all my life have struggled
to do my best. My husband was ill. I could not
leave him and so you had to wait. And such
duties, as daughter and wife, are all the Yoga
I have ever practiced. But since I know so little,
go on and you will find a butcher from whom you
may learn much."
And he was horrified and startled because in
India the butchers belong to the class of the "un-
touchables." There are none so low. But he
could do nothing but go on until he saw before
him the butcher at his revolting work. And
looking at the young sannyasin the man said:
"The woman sent you to me. Be seated,
please, until I am ready."
He waited, and the butcher finished his day by
serving his parents and then turned to the sann-
yasin.
The young man questioned him on the high
subjects of Yoga and in answer the butcher
spoke like one inspired, delivering a discourse
that contained the highest flights and concen-
trated essence of the Vedanta philosophy. And
when he had finished his great teaching the young
ascetic asked :
152 THE WAY OF POWER
"Sir, why, with your knowledge, do I find you
t}.1:
is?" And the man answered;
/ "No duty is ugly; none is impure. To this I
wa.s born, to this devoted. But I have done my
best, and I serve my parents and fulfil my
duty as a householder. I know no Yoga, nor
have I ever left the world. But illumination has
found me because I have worked with a spirit
free and unattached." '
This parable perfectly illustrates the point
that the feeble may confute the wise. These two,
the woman and the butcher, had received the
great Illumination. So much f~r the Yoga of
Action.
Next follows the Yoga of Intellect, and here
I own I always picture the mathematicians lead-
.ing with their pure and austere knowledge,
though of course it is not necessarily so. This is
the Yoga that walks fearlessly along the moun-
tain-peaks of the highest intellect, which from
its own altitudes sees through and over the lies
of the senses and knows that the world is far other
than it appears. Here I must use the word
"maya"-so often used in the Western world
to signify "illusion" in the belief that such is its
/
THE WAY OF POWER 153
Sanskrit signification. But its real meaning may
more truly be described as "phenomena," and as
representing the world of appearances which the
untrustworthy senses report to us. They ar~ not
illusions, though an Indian sect at one time ar-
gued that point of view, but they are things
wrongly perceived through a medium which pre-
sents them to us as they are not, so that we take
them as it were by the wrong handle and can-
not use them as we should and could if we knew
them as they are.
{ There is a passage from one of the ancient
Indian books which sums up the meaning of
"maya" very finely.
"Because we talk in vain and are satisfied with
the things of the senses, and because we are run-
ning after desires, therefore we cover the reality
'.as it were with a mist."
And again in one of the ancient books:
"Know nature to be Maya, and the Mind, the
, r r of this Maya, to be the Lord himself."
Now, in a very deep sense, the highest, most
piercing, most searching form of intellect may
most truly become the Lord of Maya, in the
sense that it may by sheer luminance of insight so
light up the misleading forms which the senses
154 THE WAY OF POWER
offer us as to make them transparent and see
through them to the truth behind. Of this form
of Yoga the Buddha is the highest known exam-
plej
H e had practiced the ascetic discipline of the
Raja Yoga to which I devote the whole chapter
following this, but certainly also he cast it aside,
, perceiving another path upon which his super-
normal intellect could lead him. There is noth-
ing more interesting to those who care for such
things than to study the deep reasoning contem-
plation to which he gave himself under the Tree
and to read the stages by which it soared through
all the clouds and mists of the senses until it
reached the (to others) almost unbearable illumi-
nation of pure truth-naked but radiant. N atu-
rally the powers followed such strength like
\tamed hounds, and from his height he surveyed
'
them and found them comparatively meaningless
because he beheld things so far above and beyond
them.
': There is no intellect, probably, that could
I
tread the path of the Buddha, but such insight
into causes clears the way for other minds belong-
ing in their lesser degree to the same order, and
r this is the road that the great philosophers,
I
(
l
{
\
1
\
·
i
,i
p
i
•
!
}
II
~
THE WAY OF POWER 155
mathematicians, scientists, and others like them
may tread to the Land behind the Looking Glass.
They will search into the question of man's
boasted "individuality," and will find that it does
not exist. The body is a flux of constantly chang-
ing particles, the mind an ever-changing whirl-
pool passing from the imbecility of the infant
to the imbecility of unmemoried old age, and
through all this Maya they will pierce and find
their way to the One and Unchanging of which
we are all a part. They will realize at last, by
their sheer power of destroying interposing veils
by reasoning, that the "individuality" of man is
a distortion of the truth; that only infinite Spirit
is individual, that nothing infinite can ever be di-
vided or changed, and that every man is in him-
self the infinite, the unchanging, though the phe-
nomena of life, while they are believed to be real,
make him appear to change, like colored lights
p~ ing upon white surfaces.
( And when a man has realized this he knows
that the universe is his and he, and the secret
places of the universe ~re as open to him as the
street in which he lives-and more so-and the
occult is the happy alphabet of the new language
the psyche in him has learned to spea~ Of
156 THE WAY OF POWER
course he cannot tell all he knows, for, as has been
said, it takes two to tell the truth-the one to
hear and the other to speak,-and there are not
many yet capable of hearing the truths that the
' yogin who has trodden the road of reasoning can
tell. "There are a few whose eyes are not dark-
ened with dust. They will hear. None others."
It would not be suitable or possible to open
here all the high teachings on this head. They
need a volume of their own. Their watchword is
realization of the great truth, "Thou art That."
. By pure intellect and reason a man may gain the
truth that the universe is one and he one with it, J
and having gained this eternal foothold he knows
: the central truth of the central thought of an-
cient India.
"He that seeth about him the manifold goes
from death to death."
He who sees the One has beheld the Vision and f,
holds power in the hollow of his hand. So much
~ for the intellect and reason.
The third Yoga is known as Bhakti Yoga, and
this way is open to all who possess passionate love
and devotion to the occult, the Hidden Treasure.
There is no Yoga that is not based on renuncia-
tion : for the-reason that the individual self must
_.,,,.,s.. - - .. - ;;;:
THE WAY QF POWER 157
be forgotten or it obscures ~11
_
the rest of the uni-
vers; , .But - this t~ird ): qga . drea;~s on self-
renunciatio n, adores it, is absorbed ;n it. It sends
rays of love to all that lives and moves ancfhas
its "
being, and in a sense this is the easiest yoga.
of all because no renunciation is'difficult where
there is love. If a man loves the marvelous ani~- ..
mat li'fe
0
wh1chlives beside us and which, as Car-
\ dinal Newman said, man as a whole understands
: less than he does the archangels, is it difficult to
. him to refrain from killing, wounding, maltreat-
' ing those whom science knows to be our brothers,
, or slaying them for food? No, indeed. And it
i may be added that their lover secures for himself
j joys wholesome, clean, uplifting to the true Yoga
and understanding, which the man with a gun or
t knife can never know. If the heart is given to
another all service for him is pure and exquisite
joy, and so, in reading the lives of the saints,
Eastern or Western, one sees that actual pain
became pleasure when the call of the Divine was
heard. The martyrs swept the flames about them
like water, the tortures of the dungeons were
assuaged with secret passionate incomprehensi-
ble joys. And, as the Swami Vivekananda has
said, the path of love is the ea,si~1,.t
_
advanc;e.,.
,:t
o
.,,,
.
158 THE WAY OF POWER
t4e higher consciousness because the l_q
y_erdoe~ .
-; ot lament Hie loss of w
ru
ifhe has''Ieft behhiJ :'"-~
I ..
myself should add tha f nothing is eve~ left be-=-
Jifod,-all is.included ·and .carried on. (I c~it:··
cr
7 ; :La~ ~
;~~es his o~ ·~~ty, t~en °~is.country,
and the intense love fo1· his little city subsides
smoothly, naturally. He learns to love the whole
world and his fanatica l patr iotism for his own
country drops off without pain. An uncultured
man loves the pleasures of the senses, then, as he
becomes cultured, he begins to love intellectual
pleasures, and sense-enjoyments mean less and
less to him. So, when he gets into a plane higher
than the intellect or that of inspiration he finds a
state of bliss in which all pleasures of the senses
and even the intellect become as nothing. When
the moon shines the stars dim.
"And when this love and adoration reach su-
preme devotion the man is free. He resembles
the ship in the fable which coming near the mag-
netic rock lost all its iron bars and bolts, and his
fetters drop. The adorer, the lover of the high-
est, need not suppress his emotion s [as in the
other Yogas J but needs only to inte nsify and di-
rect them to the highes
t_;/
THE WAY OF POWER 159
When this point is attained the yogi~its smil-
ing, enthroned above pain or change./ I suppose
in our own Scriptures that St. John may be taken
as the type of the Bhakti-yogin, the man who has
attained through utter love and devotion ; and it
is very clear that he was regarded by the early
Christians as a mighty master of the powers, as
much as, if not more than, St. Paul, who may
rather be regarded as a yogin of pure intellect.
This is not to say that the yogin of intellect does
not love and that the yogin of love is incapable of
reason, but each has trodden a different road to
the occult. Both have lost the impeding ego,
though by different inspiration 1/
I might give many illustrations of the three
great paths of Yoga which have been trodden in
the West, though perhaps with a less definite con-
sciousness of the goal ahead than in the East, but
I have said enough to indicate their significance
and to urge some readers to study these ways in
a deeper degree for themselves. It cannot be
denied that in these three there is a way for every
one to the occult and the powers, from the sim-
plest to the greatest and most highly developed
soul.
In the following chapters I treat of a Yoga far
160 THE WAY OF POWER
less known and practiced in the West than in the
East, though in many a lonely monastery and
cloister in Europe the road was unconsciously
and therefore ignorantly followed which guides
the eagle flight of the psyche to union and the
powers. Yet let it not be thought that Raja
Yoga-the royal Yoga-is greater in any way
than the other three. It may perhaps in some
respects be a straighter if a h~der road, though
even that is open to question. {\Vhat may be said
to anyone whom the irresistible music of the un-
seen draws is this: Take the road in which you
can move most simply, steadfastly and easily to
attainment. Each has his own YogaJ
CHAPTER IX
I NOW PASS ON TO THE STRANGE AND ANCIENT
system of training and discipline by which India
taught the science of concentration which she
considered the key to reunion with the forces of
the universe and therefore control of the powers
which in India are called the Siddhis and in the
West are (so far as they have been heard of) con-
nected with the occult and the miraculous.
I need scarcely say how profoundly I was in-
terested on finding that in India has been built
up for ages a perfect and coherent system of
self-education, the gymnastic of the "Occult"
powers which rightly used lead to the highest at-
tainment but in any case to the Key of the Land
behind the Looking Glass where all the good
things wait to be chosen. I have dwelt on the
adventures which await the entrant there in a
novel I have just finished, and they are all true
to this teaching. Attainment, far other than is
possible in this thwarted world we have created
161
162 THE WAY OF POWER
out of our physical sense-perception, is not only
possible but certain there, for those who think
the effort worth long pains and trouble along the
lines indicated in this book.
1 This subject is such an enormous one, ramify-
i ing into every department of Iife, that I feel I
) can give only the silken thread with which the
Jbeetle climbed painfully upward to the prisoner
}in the towe:t. But at least the thread is silken,
}and the coiled rope lies below it.
And I hope that this very truncated statement
• may not be quite useless in aiding realization of
.l the truth that what desires and hopes are in a
1
man he has the power to supply, not derived
1from any supernatural being but from his own
i relation to the forces of the universe. He who
\ has the entry to the Land behind the Looking
• Glass may do what he will. And as I learned
i from personal experience it ceased to be astonish:.
l ing that in Indian teaching the utmost stress was
laid upon the comradeship of the body in the ad-
)venture. They said:
"The body is the boat which will carry us to
the other shore of the Ocean of Life. So it must
be taken care of and kept free from all disease.
Never was there a wise man who had not to re-
THE WAY OF POWER 163
lject pleasures and enjoyments of the senses to
acquire his wisdom."
No doubt the first wish is to develop the body's
powers for the body's own sake. That wish is
soon forgotten when it is realized as an instru-
ment of the psychic. I read with complete un-
derstanding in the ancient books of India that a
human being is a channel for the flow of that
ocean of power which vibrates and billows
through the universe, that if the channel is kept
clear the flow will be eternal, that if it is choked
the flow will be delayed to the man's great detri-
ment and loss until slowly and painfully he
reaches higher stages of development. How he
uses this force when he achieves it is his own
responsibility. The world has had examples of
many sorts of choice and their results. India
has always taught in parables the doctrine of evo-
lution of the body and soul. That of the body is
taught perhaps most clearly in the wonderful
birth-stories of the Buddha, where he is repre-
sented as evolving slowly upward from the lower
planes of life, gathering and developing the ex-
periences of each as he climbs along the chain of
evolution. The doctrine of psychic evolution is
of course taught almost throughout Asia in the
164 THE WAY OF PQWER
parable of reincarnation, which conveys an idea, I
impossible to be stated definitely in human terms,
of the soul's return to the schoolroom of life-ex-
perience until it is fully developed and capable
of reunion with the Source.
It will be interesting to give a list of some of
the powers which the highest authority of an-
cient India declares are attainable by a man who
follows the bodily and spiritual discipline laid
down for the purpose of psychic attainment.
And if it be objected that these are miracles and
that there are no such things as. miracles India
fully endorses the latter statement:
"There are no such things as miracles. There
is nothing superhuman, but humanity is in itself
a part of all the power of the universe and recog-
nizing this and living by the law that guides it
can develop ability to use the same force as that
which drives the tides, the winds, and more.
There have been men who knowing this have used
and use these powers in higher and lower degrees,
and the day will surely come when this force will
be more generally studied and understood in its
full normality and transcendent power.
I
."The man disciplined and obedient to the law
can know all that is in another man's mind by
THE WAY OF POWER 165
using the proper means. A man disciplined may
apparently vanish. · He does not really vanish
but none will see him. This can be done only by
one who has gained by concentration the power
in which the form and the things formed can be
separated. Such a man can enter a dead body
and make it arise and move even while he him-
self is inhabiting his own. Or he can enter a liv
ing body and direct that man's mind and organ
and for the time being act through the body o
that man. For each individual mind is but
part of the universal mind though from ignoranc
it believes itself separate and can therefore onl
work through the nerve currents of its own body
Therefore when a man has freed himself from th
nerve currents of his own body he can wor
through other bodies also. Such a man does not
sink in water. He can walk on thorns. He ca
die at will. When he wills, light can flash fro
his body. His body can acquire the lightness of
air and he can pass from point to point."
When a man is born with these powers it is
because he has reached that stage of evolution.
There are other powers, but I mention these for
they will recall the misnamed "miracles" of the
Christian religion (now so discredited) and of
166 THE WAY OF POWER
the other great faiths. What if these people were
right? What if they were true manifestations of
a law forgotten and discredited now in the West
and perhaps slipping slowly into oblivion in the
O}ient?
/ What if the Indian thinkers were right who
said, "The soul is the only reality and we have
forgotten it. The body is a dream and the
average man thinks he is all body"?/
It would follow from that fact that the dimly
perceived powers which we call Occult are the
natural right and heritage of every man, and the
achievement of those who care to develop the
seeds latent within them into growth, blossom,
and fruit.
It should be remembered that science along
various lines is making a steady approach to the
certainty that the universe in all its manifesta-
tions is not bounded by the conceptions of it pre-
sented by our senses. Mathematicians, physi-
cists, all are breaking a way through. It may be
distant but they also will one day proclaim the
truth so magnificently stated in the ancient books
of India:
( "Never the spirit was born. The Spirit shall cease to be,
~ never.
THE WAY OF POWER 167
Never was time it was not. End and beginning a.re
dreams.
Birthless and deathless and changeless abideth the spirit
for ever.
Death cannot touch it at all, dead though the house of it
seem~
If India has solved the problem the occult is to
be understood and used but with the deep caution
that every increased responsibility throws upon a
man, for power is always danger or deliverance.
In the beginning-the training of the body seems
a very little thing for ends so extraordinary-I
can only repeat what the greatest Indians have
taught: Experiment if you like, but with cau-
tion, for many bodies are so degraded and weak-
ened with wrong usage that they can only re-
spond with difficulty and danger or perhaps not
at all to a higher law of life. Such must await
their hour. The wish to achieve is at all events
something which will bear fruit further along
the chain of evolution. But remember that the
reward of wandering from the right path is peril-
ous in the extreme. A true teacher is needed and
experiments should never be attempted alone.
And the warning is issued by a great Indian:
"In modern ' times many so-called teachers of
Yoga have arisen in all countries, who are worse
168 THE WAY OF POWER
than those of India because the latter know some-
thing yile these modern exponents know noth-
ing." ( I repeat that in many sects and groups in
the West people are playing with great forces
which they do not understand. And much mod-
ern psycho-analysis is working on mistaken lin~
{
It deals with the vacillati?Jls of the mind ana
of the subconscious self. tYoga is intended to
cultivate that power in the mind of looking back
steadily into its own depths and deeper, until
every process of the physical, the intellectual, and
the psychic lies like an unraveled skein of silk
before the student, and the powers, though not
the object, are naturally the result of this insight
and knowledge/
. -.i
-· .
CHAPTER X
IT IS MY OWN OPINION THAT THE WEST , NOW
searching even passionately for a clue to the mys-
teries of psychology, will do very well to listen
to the voice of India on the subject.
It will not be perfection for it has filtered
through the human medium and huinan language,
as is the case with every pronouncement of every
faith, but there is much to be learned from it,
especially in some of its strange foreseeings of
the conclusions of modern science and its equally
strange departures from them in cases where it
is impossible for all but the deeply initiated and
those who have attained the higher consciousness
to pronounce which view is ultimately right.
Having said this and thus indicated some of the
difficulties, I proceed, an
d('f
say in truth that I
never meet a Western psychologist (and I have
met many) without feeling against ·how blank an
opposition they must contend, how poor, how
material are the theories they offer in place of
practical guidance in the way of comprehension.
169
170 THE WAY OF POWER
To repeat the analogy I have used throughout
these chapters the Western psychologist is
brought up all standing against the hard glitter-
ing surface of the Mirror in which our senses re-
flect the world about us. The Eastern psycholo-
gist passes through this, as if it were mist, to the
reality which lies behind. I hope I shall be able
to make a part of this ancient system of psychol-
ogy clear and comprehensible, though I realize
that I can say only enough to set others on a
track which leads far and higher and i~nhic the
motive of research matters profoundly.
I must say in beginning that it is ound up
with the most ancient form of religious thought in
India, and I cannot wholly ignore that, though I
shall dwell on it as little as possible. But just
as when in the West we speak of visions, dreams
and telepathic occurrences, we must cite such no-
t table religious examples as Joan of Arc, St.
Theresa, Francis of Assisi, William Blake, Walt
Whitman and others who have possessed what is
technically called "the higher consciousness," so
in giving this great Indian system one cannot
wholly ignore t}:ierelat ion to religion-for I re-
peat that always there is something in deeply felt
religion which plays like a skilled musician on
THE WAY OF POWER 171
/
what I may call "the psychic nerve," exciting it
' to its highest harmonies and powers.
In the West, it has been truly said, we never
troubled ourselves with examining scientifically
the question of why these supernormal experi-
ences happened to these people and their like.
We did not at all understand them, did not like
them, and were inclined to think them a form of
mild or intense religious mania, which no one
would wish for himself or for his relations,
though it might be well enough if it had happened
long enough ago to be placed on the respectable
footing of Biblical miracles, which could be com-
fortably taken as occasions of direct Divine inter-
vention and the suspension of all law and order.
If anyone had said to us, "The miracles of the
Christ, St. Paul, Joan of Arc, the visions of Wil-
liam Blake, of Boehme the cobbler, and so forth,
were perfectly natural things, manifestations of
a law as natural as that which governs the radio
set in every house, and they were born to these
powers because of experiences in past lives," we
should have thought this statement either irrev-
erent or entirely incredible unless the person so
speaking was prepared to show us the way in
which the whole thing works. This, India has
172 THE WAY OF POWER
been always prepared to do. She comes into the
open with her system of psychology, and takes
her stand under this statement: "Some men are
born with these powers because they have earned
realization of them in former lives. Others must
earn them by discipline and training. As to
credibility: direct perception, inference, and com-
petent evidence are proofs." If you will concede
that these are sufficient she will state the psy-
chologic law as she has tested it and as you may
test it for yourself.
/ But there is not and never can be an easy
system of acquiring psychological knowledge.
Many, as in the study of modern science, have
fallen victims by the way. I had a friend who
was a pioneer in the medical use of the X-ray.
First, one finger, then a hand, then an arm was
attacked by cancer and finally he died, his life
generously spent in blazing the trail for others.
So with this Indian science of psychology where
the body is compelled to a discipline not to be ex-
ceeded in rigor by the strictest monasticism ever
laid down in the West for unconsciously follow-
ing the same winged hope. The hope is there but
the way is often dangerous / ·
(.r he great authority-or rather the authority
THE WAY OF POWER 173
which collected knowledge and opinions on this
psychology in the second century B. C. (for it
is said to be four thousand years old) is an Indian
known by the name of Patanjali, whose "Yoga
Aphorisms" survive to this day as the founda-
tion stone of the science of psychology which in
India is named "Raja Y oga"-or the Royal
Yoga-the word Yoga signifying union or con-
centration since it is only by union and concen-
tration with or through the forces of nature that
results can be achieved. It must not be thought
that Patanj ali was the originator of this system.
He only collected the experience, already very
ancient, of many experimenters. I shall draw on
his words for what I am about to say, and on
those of deeply learned disciples of his philoso-
phy who themselves constantly experienced _what
is known in India as "samadhi"-i.e., the state
of higher consciousness in which perception be-
yond all reason is possi~
To begin with, India wholly denies that so-
called "miracles," "answers to prayer" and the
strange powers of faith, are due to any super-
natural intervention. She says: "Yes, they hap-
pen. They are imitated, faked, but they happen
and abundantly, only they are never supernatural
174 THE WAY OF POWER
for nothing exists in the Universe which is not
obedient to the law of Nature." India states that
belief in the possibility of supernatural inter-
ferences with law inculcates fear, superstition,
and therefore cruelty. It belongs to the dark
places of the earth and must be cast out by the
clear daylight of knowledge.
But there are in nature gross manifestations
of force and subtle ones. The subtle ones are the
causes, the gross the effects. The gross can be
perceived by the senses, the subtle by a conscious-
ness in ourselves which requires cultivation and
discipline, conscious or unconscious, before it can
open its eyes and see. And because the higher
branches of this Way are at least as difficult and
new to the unskilled as (for instance) climbing
the Alps, India holds that a teacher is a necessity,
and that only certain lower branches of the disci-
pline can be studied in safety alone. With this
reservation she offers what she calls a science of
the mind, and says the mind itself is the instru-
ment by which the mind must be observed. The
powers of the mind are like rays of light cast
abroad, illuminating a vast space; but when con-
centrated and condensed they form a beam so
powerful that flung on any subject they will illu-
THE WAY OF POWER 175
minate it to translucence. Thus, to understand
the mind and its powers the search-light of the
mind itself must be turned inward and steadily
focused; and, if you come to think of it, that is
the one thing which in the West we are never
trained to do. Our whole system of education
turns our minds to external things, the common
branches of learning, observation of the world
about us and so forth. But to concentrate mental
observation on the mind itself, to force it to self-
analysis, is a thing rarely or never done in the
West, where there is not one man in millions who
can focus his mind on its own powers and, under-
standing, use them.
So the goal of this ancient science is concen-
tration on the mind and its powers, and it de-
mands no faith or belief. It only demands trial
and the hard discipline and training which would
be needed for passing some high and difficult ex-
amination where body, mind, and spirit partici-
pated in the competition.
It is natural that a great part of the discipline
must be physical. Everyone knows roughly that
if he wants to be clear-headed it is not wise to
eat a heavy meal and wash it down with abundant
alcohol. He may deduce a good deal from that
176 THE WAY OF POWER
broa.d statement if he thinks it over carefully,
The Germans have an excellent punning proverb,
"Was man isst, das ist er" ("What a man eats,
that he is") , and in this connection, it is very true.
Therefore a discipline which insists that the mind
is intimately connected with the body and is actu-
ally a finer part of it will insist also that as the
mind undoubtedly acts on the body, so the body
also acts on the mind. It states that we have very
little control of our mind, because of the power-
ful pull of the body, and that not until the body
is sufficiently controlled can we compel the mind
to focus on what we will. Now remember that
according to this teaching the external world as
we see it is only the gross form of the real
and subtle world. Therefore the man who has
learned to pierce through the external forms to
the real, and to manipulate them, is about to learn
how to do things which will appear supernatural
to the man who sees only the gross forms dis-
coverable by the senses ; he must face all the
sacrifices of the explorer and pioneer. Western
science is always trying to get back to the unit
out of which all the outward forms of the uni-
verse appear. Raja Yoga on the contrary starts
THE WAY OF POWER 177
from the unit to study internal nature and ac-
quire mastery over it.
The path of attainment in Raja Yoga as in
Buddhism is divided into eight steps.
Life must be extremely simple, sane and
wholesome. As a first step the student is trained
and tested by the commands that there must be
no slaughter for food and that truthfulness, hon-
esty, continence and the avoidance of luxury must
be made the basis of life.
The next step is the practice of extreme clean-
liness of mind and body, contentment, renuncia-
tion of such practices as stand in the way of
concentration, study, and self-surrender to disci-
pline. To a stude:r:itit must be impossible to in-
jure any human being or animal by word,
thought, or deed.
It will be noted that these two foundations of
the science of psychology are moral, and India
declares that without them no man can really at-
tain control. She does not deny that a man may
in certain conditions have sporadic sights and
flashes of power, but he will not have control and
sooner or later such knowlege as he has acquired
without control will turn and rend him and pos-
178 THE WAY OF POWER
sibly others. Therefore it is a very dangerous
thing to adventure in this path without the moral
foundation of perfect self-control. And it can
be seen, I think, how universally this truth has
been recognized by the various religions (which
are more or less schools of psychology) in the dis-
ciplines they have laid down for their pupils.
When the moral foundations are well and
truly laid the next step is posture. Much dis-
cipline has to be worked through and a position
easy and natural for the body must be found, and
a man must choose that in which he can most eas-
ily forget his body, for it will be subjected to
great changes during this discipline. Nerve cur-
rents will find new channels. New vibrations will
be felt. And as the main part of these will be
along the spinal column, that must be held free by
sitting erect and holding the chest and throat and
head in a straight line supported by the ribs. A
man sitting slouched, with the chest caved in, can-
not concentrate; it requires a certain alertness.
After posture comes breathing-control. Stop-
ping the right nostril with the thumb, inhale air
through the left according to capacity, then with-
out pause expel the air through the right, closing
the left. Reverse the process, beginning with
THE WAY OF POWER 179
stopping the left nostril with the thumb and so
forth. Practice this with three or five inhalations
and exhalations at four points of the day: before
dawn, during mid-day, in the evening and at mid-
night. This is called the purifying of the nerves.
The body must be kept in sound good health, for
when it is not it obtrudes itself and whines for
attention. The thoughts must be as far as pos-
sible calmed and concentrated on the aim in view.
When this stage is mastered comes concentra-
tion on the control of the great world force. The
universe is composed of two forces , one of which
is called Akasha. Everything that has form is
evolved from akasha-the heavenly bodies, hu-
man, animal and plant bodies, all we see and
sense. But this force in itself is subtle beyond
ordinary perception and can be perceived only
when it has taken form. In the beginning was
nothing but akasha, at the end of the cycle all
will melt into akasha again. And in the next
"creation" all form will proceed from it.
How is akasha thus made manifest in form?
By the power of "Prana," the infinite power
manifesting itself as the sum total of all the
forces in the universe, mental or physical. The
different forms of energy are interchangeable
\
180 T!:[E WAY OF POWER
and indestructible and their sum total remains the
same throughout. At the end of a cycle these
energies sleep and are potential. At the begin-
ning of the next they wake, and the force behind
prompts the different manifestations.
Therefore the understanding and control of
this latent force opens the door of power. The
question was asked in ancient India: "What is
that which knowing we know all?" The answer
is-this force which is generator of the universe.
To this end all the discipline of Raja Yoga is
shape~, for the vital energy of all is this.
The reason for the training in breathing is
that this is the fly-wheel setting the other ener-
gies of the body in motion. It is our most obvious
connection with the Universe.
It is declared that after the first few months of
, steady effort one begins to find that the thoughts
of people near one appear to one, at first dim and
afterwards in clear picture forms. Or, concen-
trating all the energies upon something at a dis-
tance, a clear .thought-form of it will appear in
the mind. Or, concentrating the thoughts (say)
on the sense of smell, one may perceive a beauti-
ful perfume. Flashes of such perception will
tend to strengthen courage, but it must be re-
THE WAY OF POWER 181
membered they are only marks of progress, and
the end is the "freeing of the soul" as it is techni-
cally called. We are to remember that body and
mind belong to us, but are not ourselves. Thus,
in an Eastern poem, after death it is declared of
the body, "This was mine. It is not I." The
bo~y is but the name for a series of changes,
like a river forever and never the same. Yet,
such as it is, we have no other instrument until
we are set free from the senses and their bonds.
It may be said here that the early morning
and evening are the two best times for concen-
tration. They are the hours of calm in nature-
a calm reflected in the mind of man unless arti-
ficially obstructed. And one should not eat
shortly before practicing the lessons. In India
it is a part of the training to feel no hunger in the
morning until students have bathed and gone
through the practices.
Also the place in which they are carried out is
important. This can be understood by ref erring
again to the way in which the various faiths ·(or
schools of psychology) have set aside certain
places for special concentration on certain
thoughts. And it must be a place which suits our
own vibrations or it will not help them. To me
182 THE WAY OF POWER
all such set-a.part places are helpful, and I have
felt the cold and cleansing breath which precedes
"union" alike in the noble silences of Westminster
Abbey, the dimness patterned with splendid
color of Notre Dame de Paris, the uplifted
golden platform and dizzying glittering shrines
where the Buddhist Shwe Dagon of Rangoon
flames to the sun, the deserted rock temples of
Mamallipuram in India or those colored sanctu-
aries buried in glooms of great pines where the
spirits of the mighty Shoguns of Japan are re-
membered night and day. Because, for me,
where the soul of man has concentrated upon
these deep psychologies the air is visibly and
veritably charged with a force which communi-
cates itself to and possesses man in the exact de-
gree in which he is capable of absorbing it. So,
for these concentr ations which are to be freeing
to oneself and to others, a place of quiet should be
chosen and one where if possible one can be alone.
Solitude is necessary until heights are reached
where a man can isolate himself in the midst of
multitudes-as witness instances in the histories
of the Christ, the Buddha and others. In India
they set flowers in some little room kept for the
purpose, or sometimes, as often in old Indian
THE WAY OF POWER 183
stories and even in modern times, some place in
the open air is chosen, a garden, a field, or per-
haps best of all a forest. Some people will find
the occult perf urrie of incense helpful; a secret
the churches also have discovered. I do not care
for it myself. In such a place gradually those
vibrations will accumulate which the faiths have
desired 'a nd have often gained in their sacred
places, but in your own chosen place it will be in-
dividual, not congregational, and the vibrations
will be your own vibrations at their steadily ris-
ing best, which means attunement with the vibra-
tion of the universe.
Of what sort should meditation be? Some-
times it partakes of recapturing the, as it were,
dead memory of former lives.
You enter your place of quiet and relax.
"Then you begin to think backward, passing over
the events of the day in inverse order as though
you were swimming up the stream of memory.
At first you can only remember the incidents of
the past few minutes, but the memory is astonish-
ingly amenable to cultivation. You will find as
you perform your meditation for a few minutes
to an hour a day that whereas at first you had to
jump from stepping stone to stepping stone of
184 THE WAY OF POWER
the more important events you will soon find
yourself able to swim up the stream of thought
smoothly, ·omitting no smallest detail in your
memorizing backward." These you will in-
crease to a week, a month, a year and as you dili-
gently practice you will find your memory blos-
soming, until you can control the memory of the
whole of your life and until even more opens
before your mind.
And for another and most important form of
meditation there is this, the practice of thoughts
severally of love to all beings: of compassion for
their suffering, of sympathy with the joy of all
who are rightfully happy, and of aloofness from
the deceits of the senses. "And in doing this you
will know more than any intellectual apprecia-
tion can tell you how utterly true is the teaching
of the illusion of the senses, for you will then see
all they present to you as a little cloud upon the
surface of that vast consciousness upon which
you then function."
It is most important that all practice should
invariably begin with these thoughts of peace and
good will sent out to all the world-but most
especially to those against whom one may feel
one has any grudge. There is a strong psychic
THE WAY OF POWER 185
as well as spiritual reason for this, because when
the body is disturbed with any ripple of fear or
anger it is poisoned. It cannot function in peace.
We know that fear can kill, that the angry nurs-
ing mother can poison her infant, that no func-
tion is normal under such influences, and control
is never complete.
It was not for mere piety's sake that the Christ
exhorted his disciples to pray for those "who
despitefully use you," but because he knew un-
less this is done the spiritual attitude is hopeless-
ly out of joint for attainment. It really mat-
ters very little about prayer or deliberate
thoughts akin to it for those we love, because
every current of our being, every vibration, is
unconsciously and incessantly sweeping all good
towards them. But the other is really important;
in fact no control is possible without it, and with
it comes peace like the first cool breath of dawn
on untrodden dews. For oneself, one's thoughts
and desires should be always for nothing but
1
knowledge and light. When that frame of mind
is attained the goal is in sight, and with the above
reservation (and not always even with that) a
man may choose what he will from the treasures
of the universe. He ·will probably choose wisely,.
,.-..-- -.,--- - -- ~- --~
186 THE WAY OF POWER
certainly in another incarnation if not in this.
But each man has his own possibility of achieve-
ment in every life which he can develop by de-
veloping his consciousness along one of the four
ways of Yoga.
CHAPTER XI
NOW COMES AN INTERESTING AND COMPELLING
stage. India believes in something that may be
summed up as the Omnipresent and All-pene-
trating, recognizing it as the quiescent energy
which can be and is transmuted into form and
force, and she believes also in a power which
transforms or manifests this quiescent energy in
the forms of the universe we know. This force
manifests itself as what we call thought-force in
the nerve-currents of the body, and so down
through all gradations to the lowest physical
force.
Scientifically it is known that the different
forms of energy in the universe are interchange-
able and indestructible, and their sum total of
force is, I repeat, called in India "Prana." The
object of this discipline is to give control of this
sum total of force.
Let us suppose-for there are of course great
gradations in this knowledge-that a man par-
tially understands the means of controlling this
187
188 THE WAY OF POWER
univers al force. It must be realized that con-
trolling this means controlling everything in the
universe according to the degree of attainment.
Knowing and understanding it, we know all in so
far as we can receive knowledge. To acquire this
control it has seemed to great Indian minds that
any sacrifice was worth while, and this is the goal
to which the true Yoga discipline steadily aims.
But I cannot too often insist that in certain con-
ditions and vibrations a quite untrained mind
may have a flash of it and its power, and that this
is as dangerous as for an ignorant man or an
animal to play about with uninsulated electric
wires. But in this system we may drill and dis-
cipline our own bodies and minds and acquiring
control of the little ripple of universal force
which is ourselves launch outward into the great
ocean. Consider at this point how in all coun-
tries people are attempting to control this force
without understanding its A B C; healers, hyp-
notists and many more. Is it not wiser to learn
the way? In India these studies are forbidden
without a teacher.
The simple steps I have already given sound
ridiculously inadequate to the aim, but what they
give first is control of the muscles of the body and
THE WAY OF POWER 189
that is very important in a world where every-
thing is related with everything else. I used
when a child to say that I could not imagine why
health had not been made infectious instead of
disease. I have learned that rightly understood
it has. The vibrations of bodies can be trans-
ferred to one another for strengthening and heal-
ing. And as to personal control, as I have told of
a modern Indian teacher skilled in this science,
when in pain he was able to transfer his con-
sciousness from the seat of pain and suffer no
more. But in true healing it is not by rousing
faith that the cure is accomplished; it is by raising
the vibrations of the patient into concord with
your own highest vibrations and there sustain-
ing them. That vibration will be a stronger or
weaker one according to your stage of attain-
ment. In some, historically recorded, it is tre-
mendous, though taking very different forms
and developments of power. Consider the dif-
ferent gradations in which men become channels
of this universal force. We have some very elo-
quent educated speaker on religion and he fills
his church or hall and there it ends. You get a
camel-driver in Arabia, Mohammed, and the con-
suming force in him became a sword that armed
190 THE WAY OF POWER
millions and may yet drench the world in blood
and tears. You get a highly skilled admiral or
general who wins or half wins a war by sea or
land and dies and with a salute of guns is for-
gotten, and yet take Nelson, with such a whirling
force in the frail little body of him that when he
looked a man in the face, "The spirit of Nelson
was on him and each was Nelson that day,"
and his name is immortally one with victory. Or
Napoleon, the little shabby Corsican with those
gray-blue eyes whose fire none could face un-
moved, seeing in them the flame that was to
devastate Europe.
We call this genius and wonder at its myste-
ries but need not. It is Prana, the universal
force, sometimes possessing , sometimes con-
trolled by a man consciously, wisely, and help-
fully, sometimes unconsciously and perilously,
but always force irresistible. This is in truth a
world of ideas, not of solidities, and must be in-
terpreted by different and evolving stages of con-
sciousness and not by any science of physics.
So; in learning to control the muscles and
nerve-currents of the body, balance and poise are
learned and the equal distribution of force. And
all this must be gradually done because the results
THE WAY OF POWER 191
..
involved are so stupendous, and though some
achieve much in one life, others must evolve
through many.
"Other heights in other lives," says Browning.
But through discipline and meditation lies the
only way of direct attainment. Is it realized
how little any of us use our minds and think
at all? We watch a series of outside pictures
imperfectly presented to our minds and there our
mental life begins and ends.
Now comes a state which can only be be-
lieved through experiment. For all I know the
description may only be symbolic or a parable,
but the result is there.
It is taught in India that along the spinal
column is a nerve current on either side and a
canal running through the spinal cord. At the
base of this canal is a storage of nerve power
which can be roused into action by the above
discipline and, when roused, like a mounting tide,
attempts to ascend this canal which runs through
the spinal cord. As the tide of nerve power
rises, layer after layer of mental power is opened
until it reaches the brain, and the inner, the
true self becomes detached from the bonds of the
mind and the body and acquires control.
192 THE WAY OF POWER
It is taught in this system that only those who
are skilled in the discipline have opened this canal
in the spinal column, but that the nerve currents
on either side act in all, though uncontrolled. The
opening of this canal for the transmission of
power is perhaps the most important stage in the
discipline. The way to it is regul ated breathing,
steadily practiced and gradually increased. Per-
fect rhythm must be attain ed in the body. The
importan ce of rhythm is being very gradually
realized in the ,vest. In Asia the very workman
turns his blow or stroke or pull into pure rhythm,
using generally some sacred word as the beat.
So in the practice of Yoga it is usual to time and
make rhythmic the breathing (as taught above)
by using some sacred word as the beat. The one
generally used is "Aum," the ancient word which
represents the Trinity of Power, and this word
flows in and out harmoniously with the breath ,
until both become automatic. This applies espe-
cially to the second lesson in breath, where meas-
ured breaths are taken, using the nostrils alter-
nately, filling the lungs through each nostril in
turn and exhaling the air through the other. It
is claimed that the use of this exercise over a
considerable time will result in such calming and .
THE WAY OF POWER 193
rhythmic influences throughout the body that
harsh lines disappear from the face and the tones
of the voice assume new beauty.
And after this comes another stage. As you
:fillthe left nostril with air, stopping the right nos-
tril with the thumb, concentrate the mind on the
nerve current it produces. Then close both nos-
trils with thumb and forefinger and believe that
you are sending the nerve current down the
spinal column and striking on the store of force
at its base. Hold it awhile. :Believe then that
you are slowly drawing out that nerve current
with the breath into the other, and taking the
thumb off the right nostril expel the breath. Re-
verse the process and repeat. Unused as we are
to full breathing in the West this should be begun
with only four seconds' inhalation (or less), re-
taining the air for sixteen seconds and expelling
it in eight. Think always of the force at the
base of the spinal column while you do this
breathing. Four times in the morning and four
in the evening are enough for the beginner, and
the exercises must be very slowly increased as
you find ease and pleasure in the practice. It is
taught that along the lines of this discipline all
the sexual forces can be eventually transmuted
194 THE WAY OF POWER
into purest energy and that this is why in all the
faiths chastity has been proposed as the most ex-
alted virtue-a circumstance otherwise difficult
of explanation in some respects. This accounts
for the fact that every great faith (or psycho-
logical school) has instituted a monastic disci-
pline, sometimes without clearly explaining, or
even with misrepresentation of its reasons why
under a recognized rule of men or women vowed
to celibacy may very likely appear (as has often
happened) the great psycholo gical expert.
Then comes the next stage. The mind must be
freed from being controlled by the representa -
tions of the senses.
The mind leaps about from thought to though t
like a monkey in the bough s of a tree. It cannot
fix or concentr ate. It spills over on everything.
You cannot hold it to one thought, for, slippery
as an eel, it escapes you and is gone. You must
unharness it from the hastil y running pictures
of the senses and by practice quiet it and redu ce
the waves to ripples and the ripples to a mirr or-
ing calm, and at this stage becomes possible the
deep calm of concentrated meditation which in
Asia is called "the one-pointed state of mind,"
when the mind, conscious of its grip that noth ing
THE WAY OF POWER 195
can relax, clenches itself on to some chosen ob-
ject, turns it inside out, sees it through and
through and absorbs it into perfect union.
And when this is ·attained the next step is to
reharness the mind to far other things than the
sense-impressions. Fix your mind (for prac-
tice) _
on some point in the body and imagine it
as filled with light. It is good to focus on light
because that supports the imagination in several
obvious ways. At this stage sounds will be
heard ljke music, seeds of light may be seen float-
ing in the air. And so by this focusing and con-
centration every part of the body can be grad-
ually brought under control. Men skilled in the
discipline can bring the very heart-beat under
perfect control. And when all these things are
attained and the body is an obedient slave and
no longer master comes the attainment of the
higher consciousness which is called "samadhi."
India teaches that beyond reason, beyond all
mental powers, is a state of consciousness in
which the highest wisdom and power are attain-
able.
I have described the threshold of this state as
the higher consciousness and I have said before a
man may stumble into _this state. He will then
196 THE WAY OF POWER
believe what he has learned to be an inspiration
from outside himself or a divine intervention,
and will probably surround his knowledge with
hallucinations, explaining it by such earthly
knowledge as he has hitherto possessed. Take
the case of Mohammed. He rose into this high
consciousness, untrained, undisciplined. He re-
ports that the angel Gabriel set him on the
heavenly horse Harak and he visited the heavens.
Yet that man beheld wonders of truth and in the
Quran truth and superstition are distractingly
blended. So with many other famous instances.
But in Yoga all the different stages, physical,
mental, spiritual, meditative and so forth, lead
scientifically and in gradual development to this
state of higher consciousne ss in which the force
and knowledge of the universe are open to a man
as a treasury from which he may help himself
according to his capacity. It is impossible that
in a book like this I should do more than sketch
the hasty outlines of a vast subject. I should say
much more on meditation, its subjects and ob-
jects, on the patience necessary, the strict rule,
and much else. For some the way is much easier
and simpler than for others. I suppose that is
conditioned by the stage of evolution already
THE WAY OF POWER 197
reached. For all round us are souls in different
degrees of evolution and the battle there, as
always, is to the strong. I will give a short
Indian parable which expresses the instant union
that may befall some, for it has a general appli•
cation.
A great yogin passed through a forest and by
a man who had been sitting there long absorbed
in discipline and meditation, and this devotee
asked, "When shall I attain full knowledge?"
The yogin replied, "In four more births," and
the man wept in despair. So long yet! So little
done! He passed another who asked the same
question. He answered: "As many leaves as you
see on this tree, so many births await you before
you receive full knowledge." A flood of joy
transfigured the questioner's face. "So soon?
And I who have done so little!" And even as
those words passed his lips he received full
knowledge and enlightenment, for he had per-
ceived the truth that time is nothing in the attain-
ment of wisdom.
I feel I have said little and there is so much
which should be said. This austere Indian wis-
dom sounds very strangely in the clash and hurry
of modern life. And when I give the follow-
198 THE WAY OF POWER
ing beautiful description of the true disciple of
psychological science, it is like a lost music, ex-
quisite but out of reach.
"Abiding alone in a secret place, without crav-
ing or without possession, he shall take his seat on
a firm seat, and with the working of the mind
and senses held in check, so let him meditate,
and thereby reach the Peace. He who knows
the boundless joy that lies beyond the senses and
is grasped by intention, he who swerves not from
the truth, is as a lamp in a windless place that
does not flicker."
Yet it is attaina1!le and, to those who have
attained even a little step, which of earth's prizes
can seem worth a moment 's consideration? Of
them ii may be said:
"As men do children at their games behold,
And smile to see them , though unmoved and cold,
Smile at the recollect ed joys , and th en
Depart and mix in the affairs of men."
So are those who have attained even a little
knowledge of the psychological prizes await ing
the seeker. Yes, these are truly the affairs of
men. The world and its societies have been
formed from chaos by men who have seen these
things, have entered into Realization of them,
THE WAY OF POWER 199
and so swayed the minds of the peoples into some
faint responsive harmony with their vision. What
right have those to speak on the subject of true
psychology who have not studied along the line
of those who have attained and have wielded the
powers which have transmuted the world? It is
a great and possible power to heal the sick, to
walk on the water, to penetrate the thoughts of
others, to transport oneself through space, but
these are little things beside the power of trans-
muting the thoughts of other men into an energy
that shall possess the world with the realization
of the universal as it truly is and of their place
in it. And it is only along the path so very
poorly indicated in these pages that this has been
done, for this path, consciously or unconsciously,
has been trodden by all the great world seers.
And what interest can compare with it? Here
is a source of energy almost untapped which
connects up with every form of force physical,
mental and spiritual which exists. To meet an
objection which may be raised I will quote the re-
marks of a German observer, Carl Kellner. Af-
ter comparing this Yoga with those of the hyp-
notic or dream states artificially induced, he
says:
200 THE WAY OF POWER
"It [Yoga] .makes of its true disciples good,
healthy and happy men. Through the mastery
which the yogin attains over his thoughts and
body he grows into a character. By th e subjec-
tion· of his Jmpulses to his will and fixing the lat-
ter upon the ideal of goodness he becomes a per-
sonality hard to influence by others and thus
almost the·opposite of what we usually imagine a
medium (so called) or psychic subject to be."
I have given only a very brief synopsis in these
chapters of an enormous subject. Those in-
terested must study it in the ancient writings and
trustworthy modern interpretations. Many are
not trustworthy.
CHAPTER XII
IN ONE POINT ALL WHO HA VE SEEN AGREE,
namely that Love is the basis of the Law on
which the universe moves. I need not refer to
this point of view in our own Scriptures. We are
all acquainted with the thesis-though the harsh
experiences of life leave some of us with, as we
think, very good reason to doubt its truth. But
why should it be so? Why should love lead us
to realization of the powers? ,vhy should St.
Paul speaking in the very language of the Fourth
Dimension assert it is necessary "that ye, being
rooted and grounded in love, may be able to com-
prehend with all saints what is the breadth and
length and depth and height-" But all can :fin-
ish the sentence. Here we must turn to India
again-that great commentator on the "occult."
As Max Muller says of her:
"That which we can study nowhere but in
India is the all-absorbing influence which religion
and philosophy can exercise on the human mind.
So far as we can judge of a large class of people
20I
202 THE WAY OF POWER
in India, not only the priestly class but thCr
nobility also, not men only, but women, what was
real to them was the invisible. What formed the
theme of their conversations, the subject of their
meditations, was the Real which .alone lent some
kind of reality to this phenomenal world. This
is the side of India which deserves our study be-
cause there has been nothing like it in the whole
world. This is the highest summit of thought
which the human mind has reached."
And these men and women were a branch of
our own race. The language they spoke was
drawn from a common source with our European
languages. Their thought is our true heritage.
It appears to me, considering its immense influ-
ence in Asia and also in Europe, that there is
none better worth our study. The teaching of
India is the unity of the universe and of our-
. selves with it, and this is really the teaching of
the occult. Surveying man, beholding his greedy
grasping ego with the desires and appetites which
he has been taught to call personality and him-
self, India declares this ego to be the creator of
ignorance and illusion, blinding us to the facts of
our own worId and the Land behind the Looking
Glass, ignorant because it can know only through
THE WAY OF POWER 203
the channel of its fallible senses and can think
only within the bounds of time and space which
are its prisons. It is therefore unable to see any-
thing as it is in itself and can visualize it only as
it appears when viewed through the narrow slit
through which its senses and consciousness com-
mand the world. To an organism built differ-
ently from ourselves all would appear quite dif-
ferently and we cannot tell how. Thus we are
imprisoned and cut off from the occult which is
in truth the Real.
But in every man, hidden under the carapace
of this ignorant, false and ape-like self, lies a true
self which is immortal because it is a part of
what India calls That (because it is indescrib-
able) and which we call God. Very deep down
in most of us lies that Self, forgotten save by fits
and starts, unrealized, hidden by the objective
ego which transacts all our daily business and
usurps the throne of the true monarch. But it
is there, and until a man recognizes the truth
of its existence and essence he walks blinded in a
world of false concepts and beliefs created by
his ego, totally miscomprehending his relation
to the universe and as much beyond as we can-
not conceive. The realization of this truth is
204 THE WAY OF POWER
enlightenment; the man opens blinded eyes and
gradually perceives the world, not as it seemed,
but as it is, perfect in the beauty of Law, and
himself an integral part of it; a relation nearer
than any sonship or brotherhood, being Union.
He will then gradually learn that what held him
apart from his rightful ownership of power was
the illusion of individuality which concentrated
his desires on such illusory prizes as personal suc-
cess and all it connotes, on a personal heaven
and immortality, and baser preoccupations than
these. For desiring these individual possessions
he is deflected into the sandy desert of selfishness
and is imprisoned more and more terribly in its
solitudes of egoism. He has not learned the Law
that this ignorance is utter darkne ss, weakness,
and inability to react to and use the great currents
of force sweeping around us. This deception of
false-selfhood is as alluring and seemingly
natural as it is dangerous. Edward Carpenter
has a useful analogy:
"Each little leaf on a tree may very naturally
have sufficient consciousness to believe that it is
an entirely separate being, maintaining itself in
sunlight and air, withering and dying when win-
ter comes. It probably does not realize that all
THE WAY OF POWER 205
the time it is supported by the sap which flows
from the trunk, and that in its turn it is feeding
the life of the tree; that its self is the self of the
whole tree."
So also beneath the tossing wave-crests is the
urge of the illimitable ocean, and the individuality
of each lea.f, each wave is illusion. There was
One, there is One, and but One, and we are a part
of it.
Thus, being the tree, the ocean, the cosmic con-
sciousness, we see that India accepts no doctrine
of original sin but offers instead that of original
power. We are the king who being drugged for-
gets his kingship in a nightmare of mad desires
which though seemingly won can never assuage
his divine homesickness with their dance of dying
dreams. The Western faiths have recognized
their unreality:
"Chang e and decay in all around I see;
0 Thou, who changest not, abide with me."
But India strikes higher. "I,-man though
I be-I myself am the Unchanging. I sit vic-
torious above pain and change for I too am
divine! I too am fathered by the starry sky!
What I will I can do and be. Death has no
power on that immortal Self."
206 THE WAY OF POWER
But how is this great knowledge attained?
The consciousness of this mighty self in us
must evolve as the body evolves from lower types
on its upward way. As it has taken ages to dis-
engage the divine strength of the Apollo from
the brute strength of the ape-man, so it takes
time and experiences many and great to give a
man the wisdom enabling him to realize and act
on the knowledge that within the rocky shell of
his false ego lies the Pearl of gr eat price-which
is power and realization. And, seeing what time
a.nd experiences are needed for so vast a triumph,
return again and again to school in some form
awaits not only humanity but all life, until it has
attained self-realization of the T rue in itself and
therefore in the whole-piercing through the de-
ceptive layers of personality to the inmost kernel
of being, which is Divine and universal instead of
individual and partial. "For," says Paul, "the
earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for
the manifestation of the sons of God." That is
the higher race developing its super-conscious-
ness with the attendant powers.
But all creation is in different stages of evolu-
tion and there are those who are near the goal
or far from it, living in the midst of self-sown
THE WAY OF POWER 207
conditions and reaping the fruit of their own
acts as ascent or descent in the evolutionary
scale. For error to be "forgiven" is as impos-
sible as for virtue "to forgo the high reward of
its own increase," and therefore every man is
compelled by the law of his being to reclimb
any height from which he has fall en in accepting,
though but for a moment, the code of a lower
level of soul-evolution, which once having out-
.. soared he should have left forever. But the Law
knows neither wrath nor pardon. Neither the
thou ght nor the deed can be undone and the only
thin g that matters is to climb out and up. If
an animal having developed lun gs commits him-
self to life in the water he must take the conse-
quences. It was well enough while he breathed
through gills. It is madness now. There is no
question of forgiveness. He must get out and
understand conditions better. And that he may
do so that law of the universe which is called
Karma (the result of deeds and thoughts
whether high or low) will, if he has retrograded,
flog and persuade and discipline him, if need-
ful, through eons of accumulated experience,
until he listens to the voice of the Divine
which is his own and knows that a plunge into
208 THE WAY OF POWER
an outgrown element is unthinkable. There is
no discipline worth the name but what one gives
oneself.
This Law applies to all life of every sort and
kind throughout the universe, for all must hear
the voice of its own divinity. All is steadily
working out the realization of the Divine Self-
hood which is One, Alone, and Self-subsisting,
in whom we live and move and have our being,
for outside that there is nothing, "as certain also
of our own poets have said."
The aim of all experience in however many
existences, under whatever form, is to develop
love. And why? Because love is the unifying
cosmic force. All the loves and relationships of
life work in harmony with that aim. They each
and all transcend individuality and break down
the bars of egoism. This is seen with parent-
hood, with the love of man and woman, with all
love. Says India: "In truth, not for the hus-
band's sake is the husband dear but for the sake
of the Immortal Self!" Patriotism also tran-
scends individuality, and need I speak of the
mystic's yearning and self-consuming fire at the
heart of all true religious passion? There is no
love which does not toil with passionate energy
THE WAY OF POWER 209
at that cosmic end of breaking down the poor
individuality on which we pride ourselves and
restoring us to the Whole and to the climbing
way which leads to power and unity.
See how the dog's love for man and the
answering love meeting it break down the
barriers between the two great families of life,
overleaping the gulf of lack of speech and unit-
ing and setting each a stage higher. How in-
stinctively we worship every act which illustrates
this truth of love. We know, though all logic is
against it, that if a man of infinite attainment
sacrifices his life to save an imbecile child he has
done well, and in doing it has served vast ends.
For every love with faithful hands destroys the
prison of selfhood, brick and bar, until "there is
neither day nor night remaining any more, no
existence or non-existence, but only One." Or,
in the words of Paul: "When that which is per-
fect is come, then that which is in part shall be
done away."
The separate, the individual, ;must pass as
starlight is extinguished in blue air and sunshine,
and for this reason Love is the fulfilling of the
Law.
Thi.
s is the teaching of the one Absolute
210 THE WAY OF POWER .
Reality. It does not for a moment assert that
the phenomenal world about us is illusion, but it
does assert that our false concept of selfhood
working through fallible senses and bounded in-
tellect prevents us from seeing the world as it
1·eally is and until we know it as it is we cannot
act upon it with power. "Know Thyself" was the
inscription on the Temple of the Delphic Oracle,
and it sums up all that can be said of life, for
the man who knows himself as he is knows his
powers and can use them.
Our vital need of this knowledge explains the
passion of those who know to share it with others.
Hear the words of Krishna in the Song Celestial
of India:
"Meditating on the Real Self, blended into it,
seated firmly in the knowledge of it, loving it
with fierce devotion, the wise are freed from
bonds. Their eyes are cleared from the smoke
which fills the eyes of men blinding them and
they pass into those high states from which is no
return to the lower planes. Blessed beyond
measure are such. Verily those who see the Real
Self underlying all that seems to be,-the only
Reality in the world of apparent reality,-:find
inexpressible joy in the knowledge and con-
THE WAY OF POWER 211
sciousness of the Real Self. And having entered
into this consciousness they pass into the king-
dom of Eternal Bliss and Peace."
I give another example from that strange and
ancient Christian Gnostic Gospel, the Pistis
Sophia, which some scholars refer to the second
and some to the beginning of the third century
after Christ. The Christ is teaching his disciples
on the Mount of Olives:
"And Andrew answered and said: 'Lord, I
marvel exceedingly how men in the world and
body of this matter if they come out of this
world can pass through the :firmaments and the
great Invisibles and inherit the Kingdom of
Light. This matter is hard for me. [In other
words, how men can realize and use their
powers?] And the Spirit of the Saviour was
roused in him and he cried aloud and said: 'How
long am I to bear with you? Have ye not under-
stood and are ye ignorant? Know ye not that ye
and all angels and archangels and Gods and
Lords and the great Invisibles and their whole
glory are one with another, out of one and the
same paste and the same matter and the same
substance and that ye are all of the same mix-
ture?' And they all threw themselves at Jesus'
212 THE WAY OF POWER
feet, saying: 'Lord, forgive our brother the sin
of ignorance.' "
That is, what the highest can do, man also can
do. A great and true teaching: A nd later:
"The disciples cried out and said : 'Thou hast
made us very exceedingly frenzied because of the
Height thou hast revealed. Thou exaltest our
souls and they become paths on which we travel
to Thee because they issue from Thee, and they
travail mightily, yearning to go forth from us
to the region of Thy Kingdom.' "
So was Andrew informed that he was "of the
same paste" as his Master, yet it is not to be sup-
posed that in that moment he saw with the same
diamond -clear perception. These processes are
gradual, each secure on its basis before the next
can develop and even when they appear sudden
there is a long history behind them.
Power follows knowledge, and such knowledge
brings an almost incredible liberation of force
and energy, appearing "miraculous" to those
who do not understand the law of being. This
fact to which the faiths bear witness is of pro-
found interest in view of the enlarging empire
of science for, though our false concepts im-
prison us in a world where we are physically and
THE WAY OF POWER 213
mentally bound in the fetters of the three dimen-
sions of length, breadth and height, these fetters
fall at the touch of universal consciousness and
we are admitted to perception of the occult world
which lies about us and of which we are uncon-
scious denizens, where time is not, where powers
transcending the normal of our concepts are as
natural as breathing, where perceiving the world
as it is we act in accordance with it, as inevitably
as we do here with "the world of false appear-
ances." And those imprisoned by the normal
concepts cry "A miracle!"
But it is said: "How unreasonable! We fell
into illusion as to our relation with the Divine
and must struggle back to what we need never
have lost. Why?"
There is not a faith which has not had to
wrestle with that question, and not one has
answered it categorically. Israel, in the beau-
tiful symbol of the lost Eden, shadows forth the
teaching of the Upanishads, but is silent as to
cause. Adam is at one with the Divine. Sud-
denly he develops separate consciousness and
falls into duality and ignorance and loses his
powers. On bleeding feet he must retrace the
long ascent to union. The Buddha, approached
214 THE WAY OF POWER
with entreaty to reveal the secret, replies that
the truth cannot be told, adding that if a man
does certain things, molding his life according
to the Law of Being, the Truth will meet him
face to face when he is capable of receiving it. It
does not concern him now, what does concern him
is the Path which leads to it. This is what India
calls "the noble silence of the wise." I have
sometimes wondered whether the solution of this
mystery may not be in the words of that great
percipient St. Augustine, but otherwise applied,
"Thou :findest those whom Thou hast never
lost," and our drama of loss and regainment be
a part of the cosmic play or "Lila" as they call it
in India, which we ourselves may smile at when
we have waked from the hell of disunion, realiz-
ing that we were children dreaming ourselves in
the dark, with the light all round us.
No doubt all the faiths are stuttering attempts
to communicate this high knowledge each in its
own language and all have their percipients, but
I think the relation of man to the universe has
never been so fully stated as in India. So many
has she filled with the influx of wisdom that she
may be said to have been the world's highest in-
spiration. China and Japan, Burma, and Cey-
THE WAY OF POWER 215
Ion, Java and the high solitudes of Tibet have
knelt at her feet. Persia and Greece owe her
their deepest thought and that great melting pot
the city of Alexandria, which molded the spirit
of the writer of our Fourth Gospel, drank of her
wine. The greatest of the Greek philosophers
breathed her fine air.
In the West she has met with much misun-
derstanding. We have lost touch, if we ever had
it, with the wisdom of our own race in India.
Accustomed to a more florid metaphysic, the
West has stamped the utterances of the Buddha
r(who taught the annihilation of sorrow) as
pessimism! He taught that the weary round of
rebirth ends in a state "deep, immeasurable and
fathomless as the great ocean," and she asserts
that he taught complete annihilation at death!
She asserts that his teaching is only for the
scholar and the intellectual when a little child
may follow the Way. "Do and you shall know,"
is the teaching , though it adds that to reach the
point where spirit, mind and body meet in a
fusion of comprehension and power is a long pro-
cess of evolution. She calls that teaching a
religious egoism, the pivot and center of which is
the destruction of the greedy grasping ego in
216 THE WAY OF POWER
man. Would that she would study the words of
The Utterly Awakened!
It is said these truths are dreams of mystics
and cannot be applied to pract ical life.. Ask the
mathematicians! They in the white fire of their
winged science know how little worth are the
logic of daily life and our crippled concepts of
the universe. They of all people would not
limit the boundless future which awaits the race.
CHAPTER XIII
(I am indebted in this chapter to Ouspensky's
remarkable work, "Tertium Organum")
l HOPE IN THIS CHAPTER TO DEMONSTRATE THAT
the views of the occult which I have put for-
ward are meeting with strange confirmation in
Western Science though there approached from
a different angle. To put a very difficult subject
briefly and clear ly it is now thought that the
universe of three dimensions (breadth, length,
and height) in which our senses inform us we live
and move and have our being is a universe
wrongly seen and understood by those five very
fallible observers and that in many respects the
universe corresponds in truth with "The World
behind the Looking Glass" as I have called it.
In other words, that the so-called "occult" affords
us glimpses of the world as it is beyond the per-
ception of the senses of touch, smell, taste, sight
and hearing.
And science now adumbrates the possibility
217
218 THE WAY OF POWER
of a verifiable perception of its own transcending
the senses on the mathematic al side and this is
the reason why we hear talk of what is called
"The Fourth Dimension"; for it is found that
the three dimensions of length, breadth and
height by which we measure the world and on
which all our logical and geometrical conclusions
are based are not equal to the demands made
upon them by late scientific discoveries and many
advanced thinkers are crying out for a wider and
very different definition to supplement and elu-
cidate the real relation of man to the universe.
This is profoundly interesting from the occult
point of view for reasons which I shall indicate.
It is the fact that though the body of man
could be made to conform to the three dimensions
of length, breadth, and height, the intellect and
the psyche in him, which have made all religions
and all thought possible, could not. The psyche
of man has always gone off on its own adventures
and has declined entirely to be conditioned by
the .limits of breadth, depth, and height. Not
only so, but the life and the psyche in animals
and the lower forms of life, even down to plants,
have been equally unaccommodating. They too
have refused to be enclosed (if I may so put it)
THE WAY OF POWER 219
within the limits of length, breadth and height.
A gallant fight to capture them was made by
the Positivists, who, mistaking the machine for
the man behind it, clung as long as they could to
the belief that brain-movements accounted for
Christ and Shakespeare. Like those of other
dupes of the senses their theory lies dead on the
dusty road of the past. The possibility that life
may soon be produced by certain combinations of
elements does not in the least support their asser-
tion, for the cause of life resulting from the com-
bination and its inherency in each one of the com-
bining elements has still to be explained.
It is interesting to consider a few remarks of
Plato's made rather more than two millenniums
ago. And let no one be startled by the great
name of a great philosopher, for much that he
said is really more interesting than the very best-
selling novel of the present day, and of vastly
more consequence. This quotation will show how
very ill he thought we were served by those trust-
worthy five reporters of ours upon which we
absolutely depend for knowledge until we find
the way into the World behind the Looking
Glass. And few persons since have been able to
question seriously the issue he raises .
•
220 THE WAY OF POWER
He records a dialogue of Socrates with an ex-
tremely interested friend in the course of which
he gave him a very neat and striking allegory of
man's position until he has learned the way of
realization (I condense and therefore to a cer-
tain extent paraphrase, but have kept rigidly to
the essential) :
" 'Behold a set of human beings living in a sort
of underground den. They are chained in a man-
ner which prevents their turning their heads.
Behind them is a light and between them and the
light a raised way along which pass figw.res of
men and animals and so forth. And some of
these passengers are talking and some are silent.
These men who are chained and cannot move
their heads can therefore see only the shadows
cast before them. Is not this so?
"'But they would suppose that what they saw
was actually before them? And what they sup-
posed to be truth would only be the shadows of
the images?'
" 'Very true,' answers the friend.
" 'Now suppose one of these chained men is
suddenly freed and taken into the sunlight :
Will he not be in a difficulty and at first believe
THE WAY OF POWER 221
that the shadows which he formerly saw are truer
than the objects now shown him?
" 'And suppose the light dazzles his eyes: May
he not even be unable at first to see any of the
realities now affirmed to be the truth?
" 'But when at last Jie can see the sun as the
cause of all he beholds will he not rejoice in the
change and pity those who are chained? Will
he not endure anything rather than live and think
after their manner? But the chained men will
say of him that there is no use in even thinking
of ascending to the light and if anyone tried to
loose another and lead him up to the light if they
caught the offender in the act they would kill
him.'
"In this allegory the prison is the world of sight
[i.e., the senses] and you will understand that
those who attain to the blessed ·vision of truth
are unwilling to descend to human affairs, but
their souls are ever hastening to the upper world
in which they desire to dwell."
The thing cannot be better put and the ex-
perience of the worId has proved only too well
how ready it has been to slaughte; the man who
attempts to knock the chains off the prisoners
222 THE WAY OF POWER '
and lead them into the light of reality. What
Plato has said may be summed up in one phrase.
/ We live in the real world, but we perceive it
wrongly. he entry into what I have called the
World behind the Loo.king Glass means that we
then perceive it rightly-each in his different
degree. For that there are many degrees of per-
ception none can doubt.
What we have to do is to understand the Real
and decline to be misled by the shadows. Thus
we shall apprehend what is called the occult-
or the Hidden-which really lies all about us for
observation the moment we are capable of ob-
serving. We walk about like savages in a library
with the wisdom of the ages there fqr the taking
and-we cannot take it for our own. That there
are difficulties in the way I do not deny, though
they have in instances which I shall give been
triumphantly conquered. One great and press-
ing difficulty is language, for our languages (be
it remembered) have all been evolved by Plato's
chained prisoners, sitting in the dark and taking
the shadows cast before them for real. There-
fore we must unfortunately use words quite in-
adequate to the truth some of us know. I am
perfectly certain that when Plato's emancipated
THE WAY OF POWER 223
rna"nreturned from the sunlight into .the under-
ground den he was extremely at a loss to convey
his meanings to the cave-dwellers. Probably the
real end of the story is that he sat down and gave
it up as a bad job and they beat him to death-
their legs and arms being the only free part of
them. Analogous stories have very often ended
thus in real life. The witnesses, however, have
increased in number since Plato's day and the
vocabulary has enlarged, though by no means to
the necessary point. We are still striving to ex-
press the inexpressible and a good deal of it
still sounds almost impossible for that reason,
but we are quite certainly beginning to realize
"that this earth is the scene of a drama of which
we only perceive scattered portions and in which
the greater number of the actors are invisible to
us." And, it has been said that when we under-
stand that drama we shall see that the so-called
"solid" world of length, breadth and height does
not really exist as we conceive it because we per-
ceive it so wrongly that our perception is as illu-
sory as the movement of the country past our
eyes when we are rushing through it in a train.
I remember, as a child, being immensely im-
pressed with what was put to me as a kind of
224 THE WAY OF POWER
catch or riddle, namely that there is really no
such thing as motion because you are always
stationary at some one given point. Think that
out and you will find it very difficult to counter.
To my surprise I met this poser the other day
in the thoughts of an ancient Indian philosopher.
Science, at the moment, is confronted with a diffi-
culty of the same nature with regard to time,
which according to our common conception is a
form of motion because it is always flowing past
us.
I paraphrase. Usually we think the past al-
ready does not exist. It has passed, disappeared.
The future also does not exist. It has not ar-
rived nor farmed. By the present we mean
the moment when the future changes into the
past. In other words the moment when one non-
existence changes into anothe r non-existence.
And this moment being only a fiction, we have
a full right to say the pres ent does not exist.
For the present is not to be seized-it is always
changing into the past, and strictly speaking
neither past, present nor futu re exists for us,
which is so absurd that it becomes clear that there
is something very mistaken in our conception of
time. When a man leaves New York for Lon-
THE WAY OF POWER 225
don only the memory of New York is left. And
London does not really exist for him until he
arrives there. But an observer at a sufficient
height with sufficient vision could see both New
York and London as steady points. In the same
way we say: "Spring is gone. Winter is not
yet here." But we know it will come just as
the man leaving New York knows that (bar acci-
dent) he will reach London. The new concep-
tion of time tends to be that at a sufficient height
-i.e., in the more developed consciousness,
spring is always there and winter also-and that
the notion of the flux of time is pure guess-work
at a thing we do not understand, and pure illu-
sion, and that the truth is that there is no flux of
time but the "Eternal Now" of the ancient In-
dian thinkers into which if we could look with
clear understanding we should perceive every-
thing as coexistent and co-eternal. ,
I pause for a moment to say if this is so how
_
clearly it explains the gift of prophecy or clear-
seeing. In the flashes of higher consciousness
which I shall describe the seer declares that a
certain thing will happen. That is inexplicable
on the theory of a future as yet non-existent.
But if he sees the event he describes as part of the
226 THE WAY OF POWER
Eternally existent and unchanging it becomes by
no means impossible to understand why under
certain conditions such a sight can be obtained.
So the ordinary man goes forward blind, tap-
ping his way with a stick, substantially. believing
only in what he touches at the moment, which
alone exists for him. The man who can see
beholds all round. him the points by which he
guides his course. ( The relation of the higher
consciousness to the lower is as sight to blindness. :
The considerations which witness to the develop:'
ment of a part of our race into the possession of
the higher consciousness are of amazing interest.
Yet for those who have developed it in the cases
we know, it has its terrors. Such a man is in the
position of an aviator who from the sky watches
two trains on earth rushing to the inevitable colli-
sion and cannot warn them. His consciousness
rises above the plane in which the consciousness
of the man in the street sees events divided by
periods of time. The man of the higher con-
sciousness will see all cause and effect as one,
crime and punishment, sunrise and sunset, the
birth and death of a man. Here again we touch
on the wonders of Indian thought in the Upani-
shads and later, which indicated clearly many
THE WAY OF POWER 227
centuries ago the riddle with which science is to-
day confronted. They saw that as long as science
concerns itself with physical happenings only it
stumbles in a blind alley, and that the only way
out is in the development of the consciousness of
man. On that all true science must ultimately
be based.
In this view they received strong support from
the great German philosopher Kant (born in
1724). According to his famous book every-
thing known through the senses can be known
only in terms of time and space, and nothing
can be received by the five senses except in.these
terms. And what we perceive are not the prop-
erties actually belonging to things but what our
senses ascribe to them and that in reality things
exist quite independently of time and space and
the conditions we impose by our limitations in
this respect. Thus time and space have no real
existence in themselves but represent our con-
ceptions in the same manner as when looking
through green glasses we perceive the world
green.
It follows that we do not know the true rela-
tions of things among themselves, and that we
possess only phantoms or visions of things, and
228 THE WAY OF POWER
for beings differently organized from ourselves
the world would present a wholly different as-
pect. Eriefly we have created a world (in which
we believe) conditioned entirely by our limita-
tions, just as we know that creatures of a more
limited consciousness than ourselves perceive the
world within still narrower limits and find it im-
possible to aspire to the comparatively bound-
less splendor of our point of view. It is a case of
relative truth. No doubt our conceptions are
higher than those of the mollusc or the snail, but
it would be a bold materialist indeed who could
be found to declare that the true universe is re-
vealed to our conceptions in all its dimensions
and possibilities. It must be made clear, how-
ever, that Kant does not attribu te to us a con-
fused perception of the real world. No. It is a
very acute perception of an entire ly unreal world
-so acute that as a rule we never question it, and
are difficult to persuade that it is mistaken.
Here we have to ask, What is space? As we
perceive it, it is for us the form of the universe.
We can measure it only in three directions inde-
pendent of one another-i.e., leng th, breadth and
height-and we therefore call our conception of
space three-dimensional.
•
THE WAY OF POWER 229
Yet there are things in the world which can-
not be defined in these terms and yet most un-
doubtedly do exist, and with power. Ouspensky
uses the illustration here of a house and an idea.
You may destroy the house; the idea you can-
not destroy-it will even thrive on your efforts at
destruction. And so there are many different
forms of existence. A book exists, but also, and
in a different category, its contents. A coin, and
its purchasing value. In fact every physical fact
has its metaphysical side. Therefore it has been
said: "Matter does not give us any trouble. We
know all about it for the very good reason that
we invented it. Strictly speaking matter exists
only as a concept."
Our senses prove its solid existence to us, but
our senses unfortunately are untrustworthy wit-
nesses who cannot be heard in the Court of Law
to which man's psyche appeals.
A great part of what most deeply concerns us
in relation to the so-called "occult" is our sense-
relation to time. It is necessary to ask why we
are convinced that we perceive time as a form of
motion running past the narrow five-paned win-
dow of the senses through which alone we can
observe the world, and why we cannot, as it were,
230 THE WAY OF POWER
lean out of that slit and get a broader view to
right and left of us which might revolutionize our
conclusions. It is because our consciousness is
usually chained to the plane of the three dimen-
sions of length, breadth, and height by our senses.
Our sight extends for a certain number of
yards, if unblocked by solid bodies; 01.1r hearing is
in the same case and though, as Ouspensk y puts
it, the range of sight can be extended by ascend-
ing to greater heights or by the use of telescope s
and magnifiers, this is only extending the range
of the senses, not escaping them-a very dif-
ferent proposition.
All motion that we can perceive is conditione d
by time. Can we transcend the idea of time as
motion-can we imagine it as stationary? Kant
declares that the motion or flux of time is created
by ourselves as a part of our receptive apparatus
for convenience in perceiving the outside world.
If this is true and if the slumbering psyche in
man is not bound by what may be called physical
forms of consciousness, then it is conceivable
that in different forms of consciousness man
might perceive so much more of the world as it
really is as to gain knowledge which he can never
receive through the medium of the senses.
THE WAY OF POWER 231
One great key to unlock the Gate is undoubt-
edly the true realization of time as a fourth di-
mension. This explains many a problem of
clairvoyance, clairaudience, distance-apparitions
and so forth, which has been inexplicable on the
usual theories. It must revolutionize almost all
our ideas of what is possible.
Thus we.see that the knowledge which is open-
ing on us with the enlarging consciousness of
man is what will gain for science that hitherto
dubious and hidden world known as the occult-
which is really the sphere of realization of things
as hey are in themselves and in truth.
here must come a point where all science
based on the senses guided by reason will :find it-
self met by a "Thus far and no farther." That
point is not distant. But to the consciousness of
man, which is a part of the Infinite, there .can be
no bounds. All it needs is training and disci-
pline and the necessary stages of evolution to
bring it to the realization of its transcendent
powers as exemplified here and there in those who
have partially attained.
For the question now opening before us is
stated in the great mathematician Minkowski's
brilliant generalization of Einstein's new princi-
232 THE WAY OF POWER
ple. This was quoted by Professor Oumov at
a convention of Russian scientists in 1911.
"In Nature all is given; for her the past and
future do not exist. She is the eternal present:
she has no limits either of space or time. Changes
are proceeding in individuals and correspond to
their displacements upon world-ways in a four-
dimensional, eternal and limitless manifold. [Ital-
ics mine.] These concepts in the region of
philosophic thought will produce a revolution
considerably greater than that caused by the dis-
placement from the center of the universe by
Copernicus."
"We are present," added Professor Oumov,
"at the funeral of the old physics."
And again I must quote Ouspensky.
"The world as we know it does not represent
anything stable. Phenomena which appear to
us unrelated can be seen by some more inclusive
consciousness as parts of a single whole. Phe-
nomena which appear to us complete and indi-
visible may be in reality exceedingly complex,
may include within themselves different elements
having nothing in common. Therefore beyond
our view of things another view is possible-a
view, as it were, from another world from 'over
THE WAY OF POWER 233
there.' Now 'over there' does not mean some
other place but a new method of knowledge, a
new understanding." I may add, a new under-
standing of the world we live in. We shall cer-
tainly agree with this if we have arrived at real-
ization of the fact that man "is a toy in the
hands of elemental forces, he is merely a trans-
forming station of forces. All that it seems to
him he is doing is in reality done by externaI
forces which enter him through air, food, sun-
light. Man does not perform a single action by
himself. He is merely a prism in which a line
of action is refracted in a certain manner. Just
as the beam of light does not proceed from the
prism, so action does not proceed from the rea-
son of man.''
From all these conclusions follows another and
a most important one. It is that, the psyche of
man rnanif esting (except in supernormal condi-
tions) through the action of the brain, we can
(except in supernormal conditions) observe only
those reflections which are similar to ourselves.
We can know only about the existence of psychic
lives similar to our own, and can know no others
at all unless we can enter into their plane. Tran-
scending this stage of consciousness we see and
234 THE WAY OF POWER
hear quite differently. This is the true realm of
the occult-the real World behind the Looking
Glass, and when attained it is no longer strange
and occult but the natural home of our psyche.
And from it proceed the strange manifestations
and powers which startle and bewilder us coming
in the alarming and sporadic way which is all
that the average man can formulate as yet of
their proceedings. It is little wonder that they
have been met as they have, with alternate in-
credulity and fear.
CHAPTER XIV
THAT THE POWERS HAVE BEEN ATTAINED IN EAST
and West (though in a far lesser degree in the
West) there really can be no question, in my
opinion. · I have cited a few cases, avoiding
Western instances in so far as I could because
they are contentious ground and my aim has
chiefly been to suggest the study of Eastern
thought. But attainment of supernormal pow-
ers by flashes or in continuance has been noted
and borne witness to, not only in all the faiths
but in many other credible sources, so often as
to set doubt at rest. It may be safely asserted
that the supernormal does occur, that it has its
laws, and that they may be studied and watched
in their working out in manifestation by those
who will take the trouble and who are qualified
to take it. There is much to be learned yet. We
are as men who have landed on the shores of an
undiscovered country and have seen a part of its
beauties and wonders but have not yet stood upon
2 35
236 THE WAY OF POWER
the mountains from which the whole land may be
surveyed.
I myself believe that there are records in the
great faiths where death has been transcended·
and the mountains climbed though it was im-
possible for those who stood on the conquered
peaks to convey the fulness of their vision to us
in the valleys below. I have tried to set forth
why this difficulty must exist and why it is
necessary to evolve an audience as well as a
Teacher.
In this chapter let us consider whether there
are any lower in strength and vision than the
Greatest, who have here and there stood for a
moment on the mountain peaks (possibly by the
mercy of some great perfected soul) and beheld
the spiritual vision on which the faiths of the
world are based, however they may have dis-
torted it in their earthly record. Have we in-
stances of men and women who have entered upon
the highest ecstasy and have realized psychic ex-
istences high above our understanding? I de-
scribe from the experience of the Greatest what
this state and vision appear to be, and we can
consider whether celestial flashes of it, as if a
door opened and shut almost instantly, have hap-
THE WAY OF POWER 237
pened in the experience of others less highly
evolved. In this book I have told strange stories
of things that have been observed and believed in
times past and our own, and I must leave it to my
readers to judge whether these have proved this
stupendous fact in the sense in which a mathe-
matical fact may be said to be capable of proof
by man's reason . But if that proof is possible
in the lower farms of the Occult it is impossible
in the highest spiritual flight of the conscious-
ness. It is beyond the judgment of our reason.
If we do not feel and understand by union we
must wait our day.
Therefore in this chapter I touch upon re-
markable experiences of what has been called
the cosmic consciousness (needing not only vol-
umes but libraries to describe them with any ful-
ness) which lead to the gate of the mystery by
which it appears man's consciousness may be
brought into relation with the highest source of
light and power.
It is therefore necessary to speak of the mys_
tics
of all parts of the world and of all faiths, for
the reason that they have perceived, by what may
in part be described as intuition, the basic fact
that in the universe is no duality but only One of
238 THE WAY OF POWER
which man is a part. On this all true apprecia-
tion of the "occult" eventually centers.
We now enter the region where dwell those
who have been possessed of what may be caIIed
the highest form of Consciousness that man can
conceive, though no doubt there are higher still
beyond our ken. Professor James says:
"There is a certain uniform deliverance in
which religions aII appear to meet . This is the
liberation of the soul."
Liberation from what? The bonds of time,
space, and motion and all that binds a man to the
earth as we know it.
There has come to some men and women of
many races a sudden enlargement, a sudden con-
sciousness and certainty of universal things
hitherto unknown which has changed aII their
conceptions ·of the world and its values. And if
it be objected that religion need not necessarily
have anything to do with the "occult" let me re-
peat that religion is the strongest force known
in the world for energizing what I may call the
psychic nerve and arousing it into an activity of
vibration which appears to relate it to other
hitherto unfelt vibrations. And even where the
impulse has been what is caIIed "religious," very
THE WAY OF POWER 239
often the results have entirely transcended all
popular conceptions of religion and the realiza-
tion is not that of confirmation of any dogma but
of a great and universal liberation and much
more. I will take some Indian examples first
because in former chapters I have given the In-
dian method of discipline and training which they
considered led the way to this realization and the
attainment of what are there called "the powers."
Let us take as example one of the most world-
moving experiences, that of the Indian Prince
known as the Buddha; because, though its results
for the world were incalculable, it presents a typi-
cal case of what I endeavor to describe, and he
was a man born of a branch of our own Aryan
or "noble" race. He renounced the sensual lux-
uries and pleasures of the world. He cannot be
said to have renounced love in leaving his wife
and child because love in that connection was sim-
ply transmuted into a higher form of love. He
essayed and abandoned a useless and cruel train-
ing by asceticism, then, adopting a reasonable
form of disciplining the body, he gave himself to
concentration and contemplation and at last,
seated under a tree after the manner of many of
his predecessors, he received what he and his
240 THE WAY OF POWER
disciples have since named En lightenment. He
is said, as the perception reached him, to have
cried aloud, "Unbounded Light!" and to have
henceforth perceived the world in quite other as-
pects than those it had hitherto presented and to
have attained "the powers," though he considered
them in themselves so far transcended by other
considerations that he seldom used them or com-
mended their use by his disciples. He was known
henceforward in India as The Supremely Aw..ak-
ened One.
What had he perceived? To what had he
awakened? Here language suited to and in-
vented by the commonplace perception of our
senses breaks down. We must get as near as we
can but it will be only a shadow of the truth. As
Walt Whitman (who had flashes of the higher
consciousness) says:
"When I undertake to tell the best, I find I cannot.
My tongue is inefficient on its pivots.
My breath will not be obedient to its org ans.
I become a dumb man."
The Buddha perceived what is described as the
Formless, the Beautiful, perfect Bliss, utter En-
lightenment, a solvent in which all the sorrows
of the world are dissolved and disappear. He
THE WAY OF POWER 241
perceived that all the universe is One and that
the sorrow which breaks and bruises us is caused
by belief in the separate and individual self in
man, which belief is the root of all selfishness and
grief and their concomitant crimes of ignorance.
And he found that in realization of unity lay not
only deliverance from sorrow but realization of
powers more amazing than the sudden gift of
sight to one born blind. He found that all life
is One. And I believe it to be certain that when
science extends its survey from the materialistic
to the realm of ideas and consciousness the :Bud-
dha will be found awaiting its arrival with the
serenity of The Utterly Awakened, he who
achieved and knew by direct cognition the laws
behind the phenomena revealed by the senses. He
perceived an ordered universe, the smallest move-
ment definitely caused and itself the cause of
action, and he perceived that when these are
understood power follows as a necessity. He be-
came a Master of the Occult, a Master qf Yoga
by the two roads of asceticism and contempla-
tion.
I pass to lesser cases in India and, as one, to
the teacher famous in India in the middle of
the nineteenth century, known as Sri Rama-
242 THE WAY OF POWER
krishna. His life is a wonderful record of reali-
zation and the powers that follow upon it, powers
which in themselves did not particularly inter-
est him, drowned as they were in the knowledge
of the higher vision, but allied with the purpose
of this book and therefore to be noted. Realiza 7
tion came to him in the typical way-devotion,
longing for liberation from the bondage of the
senses, and then one day, suddenly, a flood of
light and the temporary loss of self-consciousness.
I will mention some of the powers it brought
with it. They are described as "characteristics
distinctive of the ·highest degree of concentra-
tion." He would meet his disciples at the door,
and begin to answer, without being asked, the
written questions they carried in their pockets.
He could tell by touch the character of anyone
who had even come in contact with his food,
clothes or mat. He would say of one from whom
he shrank, that the contact "burnt" him. Some-
times-"Look, I can eat this. Some good soul
must have sent it."
His disciples have told of the strangeness
with which they would listen to one side of a dia-
logue carried on for hours while Ramakrishna,
resting, evidently believed himself to be com-
THE WAY OF POWER 243
municating with beings they could not see. He
had his own nervous force so completely under
control that during his last illness he could re·
move all consciousness from the cancer in his
throat and allow it to be operated upon as if
under a local anesthetic. He could interpret the
smallest detail of the physical constitution of
others as expressing their inward personality.
He would throw a disciple into the hypnotic state
and learn from his subconscious mind all that
was lodged there. At times, he said, men and
women seemed to him like glass and he could look
them through and through. Above all he could
by his touch (and this power is strangely related
to the central Figure of our own Scriptures) ex·
ercise a compelling power over other lives.
Through this touch they also received flashes of
the higher consciousness which molded their fu.
tures.
An example is given of his placing his
hand on the heads of a row of persons with a
different phrase for each, and each receiving a
different gift. With one, overwhelming joy;
to another a great light which never left him, so
that he could never pass shrine or temple after
without seeming to see there in that light a Form
244 THE WAY OF POWER
which he described as "the Spirit that dwells in
the images," and so forth. One of his disciples
says, in speaking of the usual talk of men's con-
sciousness: "Consciousness? What does con-
sciousness matter? It is as NOTHING compared
with the unfathomable depths of the subconscious
and the heights of the superconscious. In this
I could never be mistaken, for had I not seen
Ramakrishna gather in ten minutes from a man's
subconscious mind the whole of his past, and de-
termine from that his future and his powers?"
Of this disciple Ramakrishna eagerly asked
when he first saw him, "Tell me, do you see a light
when you are going to sleep?" "Doesn't every-
one?" asked the boy, in wonder. He had indeed
a consciousness of light so great that he took it
for granted that someone had placed a bright
lamp behind his head. When he was to speak in
public, which he did frequently and with power,
he would hear at night in his room a voice shout-
ing at him the words he would say next day. It
was given to him. This man was the well-known
Vivekananda.
One might multiply such instances as these
Indian ones, but I will come near to the greatest
within our own intimate knowledge.
THE WAY OF POWER 245
Who does not remember how on what may be
called the initiation of the Christ he saw the
heavens opened (again the great light) and after
that the powers, and so much else that does not
enter into the sphere of this book? Or the blind-
ing flash outside Damascus that communicated
the powers to St. Paul to which he so often
refers with the perfect simplicitY,of true experi-
ence-"occult" indeed if not understood as real-
ization of the world as it really is and the con-
sequent power to use its forces as they exist in
their might .
But there are many lesser who have plunged
·(to quote Professor James) "into an altogether
other dimension of existence from the sensible
and merely 'understandable' world." There is
the case of Boehme, the inspired shoemaker who
in 1600 A. D. saw this great light and from a
state of ignorance suddenly became one of whom
it could be truly said:
"He learned to know the innermost founda-
tion of nature and acquired the capacity to see
henceforth with the eyes of the soul into the heart
of all things, a faculty which remained with him
even in his normal condition. I:µ so much as view-
ing the herbs and grass he saw into their essence
246 THE WAY OF POWER
and properties and in like manner he beheld the
whole creation and from that foundation wrote
his book 'De Signature Rerum.'"
In a third illumination it is said, in a beautiful
analogy, "that which had in former visions ap-
peared to him multifarious was now recognized
by him as Unity, like a harp of many strings of
which each string is a single instrument while the
whole is only one harp." He says himself:
"The gate was so opened to me that in one-
quarter of an hour I saw and knew more than if
I had been for many years at a University. For
I saw and knew the being of all beings, the abyss
and the byss. So that I did not only greatly
wonder but exceedingly rejo ice.''
There is an English inst ance of the same illu-
mination, if possible more wonderful th an that
of Boehme. Those who wish to underst and the
bright illumination of the higher consciousness
cannot do better than study the life of William
Blake - the great poet, artist and mystic. Every
word he wrote, every line he drew, is worth deep
consideration, though I admit that for some of
his prophetic poems psychological insight akin
to his own, however far below it, is needed.
He had his first insight into the Land behind
THE WAY OF POWER 247
the Looking Glass of the senses between the ages
of eight and ten, and ever after that seems to
have been free of certain lovely aspects of that
strange land, and even to have climbed some of
its mountains. Of his first vision it is told that
walking on Peckham Rye, near Dulwich, he
looked up into a tree and saw it filled with angels
for birds, their bright wings radiant as stars in
the boughs. Coming home he innocently told
what he had seen and was only saved from his
indignant father's thrashing by his mother's en-
treaties. A little later, among the haymakers in
a field he saw winged figures moving and shining.
About the age of twelve he wrote one of his love-
liest lyrics. He developed rapidly as an artist
and his father decided to apprentice him to the
famous engraver Ryland, engraver to the King,
in the highest circles of literature and society and
of delightful appearance and manners. The
elder Blake took his boy to see his future master
expecting great things from the interview, but as
they left the studio, the boy spoke:
"Father, I don't like the man's face. He will
live to be hanged."
Twelve years later Ryland got into embarrass-
ment, committed forgery and was hanged. Gil-
248 THE WAY OF POWER
christ, Blake's puzzled biographer, hovers be-
tween prophetic gift and natural intuition for
an explanation of this strange incident. It needs
little explanation to those who know the A B C
of the rules of true sight unconditioned by the
senses, and it is interesting to compare it with
Ramakrishna's like power. When he was still
a young man a beloved brother died, and Blake,
by the bedside, saw the freed spirit soar upward,
clapping its hands for joy. In a letter to a friend
he describes metrically a true vision of the Land
behind the Looking Glass, which he saw while
living in Sussex.
"In particles bright
The jewels of light
Distinct shone and clear,
And each was a man
Human-formed. Swift I ran,
For they beckoned to me,
Remote by the sea,
Saying: 'Each grain of sand,
Every stone on the land,
Each herb and each tree,
Mountain, hill, earth, and sea,
Cloud, meteor , and star,
Are men seen afar.'
Till the jewels of light,
Heavenly men, beaming bright,
Appeared as one man . . .''
THE WAY OF POWER 249
And so the vision proceeds until he is lost in its
radiant beauty. He may have seen a perfect
truth. All things are possible in the Land be-
yond the senses I It was here that he saw his
vision of a flower-spirit's funeral. "Did you ever
see one?" he asked a woman who sat by him.
"Never," she answered in natural astonish-
ment.
"I have," he said, "but not before last night.
I was walking alone in my garden; there was
great stillness among the branches and flowers
and more than common sweetness in the air. I
heard a low and pleasant sound. At last I saw
the broad leaf of a flower move, and underneath
I saw a procession of creatures of the size and
color of green and gray grasshoppers, bearing a
body laid out on a rose-leaf, which they buried
with songs and disappeared. It was a fairy's
funeral." In other words, he could perceive the
indwelling spirit in all and recognize it as a part
of the spiritual and divine.
He writes to a friend:
"I am under the direction of messengers from
heaven daily and nightly. But the nature of such
things is not without trouble and care."
And:
250 THE WAY OF POWER
"I have traveled through perils and darkness
not unlike a champion. Nothing can withstand
the fury of my course among the stars of God."
And so he goes along the flowery lanes :
"With angels planted in hawthorn bowers,
And God himself in the passing hours:
With silver angels across my way,
And golden demons that none can stay."
It is most interesting to note that in the visions
of the higher consciousness the geography and
inhabitants of that lovely and terrible land be-
hind the Veil of the Senses take the shape that
will be most familiar to the percipient. It is not
so in the ecstasy of the highest consciousness.
There the Universal is perceived in blissful
union. But Blake will see the winged angels and
the figures of the Christian story, beautiful as
the pictures of Fra Angelico, moving in blue and
crimson against golden backgrounds of pure
light, and Ramakrishna will see the Great God
of the Himalayas with the young moon in his
hair, and both be true and both divine though
not the highest form of perception. This must
be so until the flesh and its limits are utterly
transcended, and I believe Ramakrishna had at-
tained that vision and I cannot deny that Blake
THE WAY OF POWER 251
may have done so though I do not find any au-
thoritative evidence that he did.
It is easy to understand that for those who see
by means and at times when they should not, the
things seen may be horrible, revealing terrible
depths in their own subconsciousness.
"For all things .exist in the human imagina-
tion." So said Blake himself, using the word in
its great creative sense which proves us indeed
part of the force which "moves the sun and the
other stars."
The death of Blake is one of the most blissful,
radiant things ever recorded. "Just before he
died his counten ance became fair, his eyes bright-
ened and he burst out into singing of the things
he saw in heaven."
I wish I could give more space to the divine
simplicity and serenity of his visions. Happy
are those who seeI Poor and neglected, he lived
in the valley of vision, fulfilled with joy and
beauty.
I might multiply instances. It is from over-
fulness and not paucity of material that I pass
on. I must mention the occult relation of ani-
mals to men which is so fully recognized in India,
and of which many of us are vaguely and some
252 THE WAY OF POWER
clearly conscious. When that is understood as
it is by the superconscious race beginning and
slowly evolving "amid the half-formed creatures
round," our attitude towards the animal world
will be completely changed by the new realiza-
tion and consciousness. I shall give a closing
chapter to this. But before quitting this subject
of the higher consciousness I will give an inter-
esting quotation from a modern realization of
the higher consciousness.
"The subject was in the beginning of his
thirty-sixth year. He and two friends had spent
the evening reading the poets and especially
Walt Whitman. They parted at midnight and
he had a long drive. He was in a state of quiet,
almost passive enjoyment. All at once he found
himself wrapped around as it were by a flame-
colored cloud. For an instant he thought of fire,
some sudden conflagration in the great city. The
next, he knew the light was within himself. Di-
rectly afterwards came upon him a sense of ex-
ultation, of immense joyousness accompanied or
immediately followed by an intellectual illumina-
tion quite impossible to describe. Into his brain
streamed one momentary lightning flash of the
Brahmic splendor which has ever since lightened
THE WAY OF POWER 253
his life; upon his heart fell one drop of the Brah-
mic bliss, leaving thenceforward forever one
after-taste of heaven. He saw and knew that
the cosmos is not dead matter but a living Pres-
ence, that the universe is so ordered that all
things work together for the good of each and
all, and that the foundation principle of the
world is what we call love. He claims he learned
more within the few seconds during which the
illumination lasted than in previous years of
study, and much that no study could have ever
taught. The illumination continued but a few
minutes but the effect was ineffaceable. A new
and higher order of ideas. Years after, he met a
man who had had a large experience in the higher
life. His conversations with this man threw a
flood of light upon the meaning of what he him-
self had experienced. · He saw the significance
of the subjective light in the case of Paul and in
that of Mohammed. The secret of Walt Whit-
man's transcendent greatness was revealed to
him. He came to the conclusion that there exists
a family [I should myself say "a group"] living
among but scarcely forming a part of ordinary
humanity, whose members are spread abroad
throughout the advanced races of mankind and
254 THE WAY OF POWER .
throughout the last forty centuries. Their .eyes
have been opened and they haye seen."
Of this I think there is no doubt, and the more
one examines history-especially the history of
ideas-the more it will be conceded. Those who
have the flash of Brahmic splendor-what Walt
Whitman describes a.s"ineffable light, light rare,
untellable, lighting the very light, beyond all
signs, description, languages"-are not and can-
not be as those who do not know. But their num-
bers will grow. This is the eventual destination
of the whole human race.
CHAPTER XV
lN A BOOK DEALING WITH SUCH A SUBJECT AS
the hidden and yet open mysteries it is impossible
to end without considering more fully the occult
bond subsisting between humanity and what is
called animal life, the reason being that union
and sympathy with all is one of the straight
ways to the Land behind the Looking Glass of
the senses. That life is admittedly related to us
biologically and on the lower planes of conscious-
ness so intimately that the sharper lines of dis-
tinction drawn between it and our own have
tended to disappear in the light of modern knowl-
edge. What remains-not to be discovered, for
discovery has already been achieved, but to be
fully understood-is the inward relation of the
subconscious of humanity and of animals. That
this relation recurs often in the vision of the
higher consciousness is known to mystics, and
there are cases where it impinges on what we
call the Divine.
This bond has been acknowledged though ig-
2ss
256 THE WAY OF POWER
norantly by every people known to us, savage
or civilized, in lower or higher forms. Among
savage peoples the totem beliefs cannot be dis-
missed as either chance or mere analogy. Study
that wonderful book "The Golden Boug h,"
take the totem stories rooted, as Fraser asserts,
in myth and legend. Read them in the light of
the ancient Indian teaching of the Unity of the
Universal with, in, and through all that is, and
new meanings will flash from every page. Myth
and legend! We talk as if men deliberately sat
down and invented childish tales to amuse or
alarm themselves in guessing at the meaning of
their surroundings. It should be remembere d
that in some ways the subconsciousness of the
savage is more alive than that of the heir of city-
bred generations-he has not left Nature far
behind, he communes with her more closely, es-
pecially where she becomes obviously animate
and vocal as in her children of fur and feath er.
He has learned from them mysterious things
which he feels but cannot pass on to ears and
eyes dimmed and dulled by civilization. There-
fore he half deifies certain animals, places him-
self under their protection, walks in fear or in
love of them, and attributes to them occult in-
THE WAY OF POWER 257
fluences which may either degenerate into what
we call magic or rise into the true psychic. Some
of his legends are true but not on this plane of
consciousness. Others shadow truth in parable.
This is seen on a much higher step of the lad-
der also. Take as an example the half or wholly
animal gods of ancient Egypt. Why does
Anubis, one of the gods of the dead, wear the
mask of the jackal? Why was the Bull wor-
shiped as Apis? Why does the deified beauty
of Hathor bear the full-circle moon poised be-
tween the horns of a cow?
We are told by scholars that the Bull re-
ceived worship as representing virility and repro-
ductive power, and though it is difficult to trace
the presentation in all instances this may be
granted as representing the material point of
view which the average mentality of mankind, in-
capable of penetrating beyond the surface, would
naturally accept. It found even cruder and
more obvious illustration. But still the Bull per-
sists in India as the inseparable companion of
the god who, seated on the loneliest Himalayan
peaks, is known as the Great Ascetic, and to
those who realized and realize that animals are
like ourselves phenomena or manifestations of
258 THE WAY OF POWER
the highest Thought of the universe that expla-
nation never did nor can cover all the ground.
There is a mystic bond between ourselves and
them which nothing can break, causing an agony
of revolt in the spirit most highly developed in
psychics at the thought of any cruelty to them.
It is realized that in this we are torturing not
only ourselves, for all life is one immutably, but
something deeper even than that, to our inevi-
table and well-nigh eternal loss. Take the lines
of Blake, that prince among mystics. (I write in
a foreign country and without the book but the
quotation is not far astray.)
"A robin-redbreast in a cage,
Sets all heaven in a rage .
A horse misused upon the road
Calls to heav en for human blood.
A dog starved at his mast er's gate
Predicts the ruin of the State.
Each outcry of the hunted hare
A fibre from the brain doth tear."
And so it continues through its litany of cruel-
ties and their punishments. I remember when
this revelation broke on me in its final fulness.
I was walking along a country lane in England
and a despairing hunted hare broke through the
THE WAY OF POWER 259
hedge to my feet with the pack of beagles upon
it. I could do nothing and there they tore it to
bloody rags under the enthusiastic eyes of the
Master (a woman) and the crowd. For a mo-
ment like Blake I saw them as devils who find
their joy in the sight of agony. That passed
and it became possible to remember the callous-
ness produced by ignorance which the Buddha
describes as the very mother of sin. And my
thoughts traveled on to what in writing of vivi-
section Professor William James describes as
"the helpless dog shrieking before his execu-
tione rs," in regretting that when suffering such
torments the dog cannot have the satisfaction of
understanding that his tortures may alleviate
the sufferings of the human race which inflicts
them. There are not many men who even when
properly instructed would complacently submit
to be dissected alive or infected with abominable
diseases to serve that end, but even that side of
the question is scarcely as important as the effect
on the men who do these things and the nations
which permit it. In the deepest reasons of the
true occult such things are crimes and their so-
called justification a plea of cowardly conven-
ience or selfishness. And be it remembered that
260 THE WAY OF POWER
if such pleas are accepted they stretch further
and to frightful ultimates. If it be said that
manliness of a country must be fostered by these
sports and its diseases cured by knowledge so
attained, I reply that truer manliness may be
learned by wise austerities of self-government,
and rather than so cure diseases it is better to
prevent them by adopting a simple and healthy
way of living which also excludes the slaughter
of animals for our food. Those who have cast
aside the antiquated superstition of its necessity
know the true gain to body and mind and still
further and more profoundly to national pros-
perity in other ways. The wise and great Sir
Thomas More in the reign of Henry VIII
pointed out how far more costly and wasteful
is pastoralism than agriculture: how little em-
ployment the first gives in comparison with the
second and how pastoralism depopulates a coun-
tryside, whilst agricultme fills it with labor.
"The sheep," he says, "do eat up the men.''
As for the relation of food to psychic progress,
the world-wide experience of the great faiths
demonstrates this, as I have before pointed out.
To return: Note, in the high civilization of
THE WAY OF POWER 261
ancient Greece, how eack divine being is attended
by and partly manifested through some animal
which becomes as it were a part of the divine ef-
fluence. Athene, the goddess of wisdom, must
have her owl-wise to see in the dark that blinds
others; Zeus his eagle soaring against the sun-
light that dazzles lesser creatures, Hera her
peacock, many-faceted in color as a jewel. In
India the wise god, the Lord of Obstacles,
wears the elephant's head with his kindliness of
strength. By Vishnu, the Preserver, sits Garuda,
his man-bird: Saraswati, the Divine Learning,
rides her peacock. Passing on to China and
Japan, amongst others one sees the Divine Com-
passion (Kwan-Yin in China, Kwannon in
Japan) bearing the sacred fish. And this re-
calls the Christian symbol of the Fish connected
with the Greek initials of the Christ. Our
Scriptures teem with sacred animals, from the
Four Beasts of Revelation full of eyes within
and without "who rest not day and night cry-
ing 'Holy, Holy, Holy'" before the Throne, to
the terrible image of the scapegoat driven out
to die in the desert accursed and bearing the
sins of the people-evolving later to that of the
262 THE WAY OF POWER
Lamb on whom it is declared are "laid the iniqui-
ties of us all."
Analogies, illustrations only, many will say.
But no. A symbol is neither; it is a deeply felt
unity seen from quite another angle than that of
the ,material. Felt, not stated in logical terms,
but known none the less by the deep undying
knowledge which makes us a living part of the
universe.
Leaving the subject of the recognition of the
divine consciousness in animals let us consider
our daily relation with them. Note how when
man is exiled by sin or misfortune from his fel-
low men he is never alone whilst Zif
e is with him.
Animal companionship is truly the highest form
of this, but man's sanity and something greater
in him can live on the presence of a growing
plant whilst the companionship of a mouse, a
rat, even a spider, can supply him with food for
courage and cheerfulness, and solitude ceases to
be solitude-for it is peopled with all the mys-
terious promises and fulfilments of eternal life.
And taking the more highly evolved forms of
psychic life--such as the elephant, horse, cat,
dog-what does not humanity owe to recogni-
tion of the unity between ourselves and them?
THE WAY OF POWER 263
What has not intercourse done for them also?
It is a marvelous mutual reaction. India, never
failing in courage of statement, proclaimed the
unity between us and took as a part of her teach-
ing the evolution of soul as well as body from
those lowlier forms of life, asserting that man
sums up in himself all living experience and could,
not be man were it otherwise. Such also is the
view of Plato-greatest of the Greeks. If this
is the explanation of some of the instincts and
strange wisdoms latent in our psychology it ex-
plains much that is obscure otherwise and lights
up many dark and profound sympathies which
we take as chance and meaningless until we con-
sider them deeply. This is very apparent to all
who have acquainted themselves with folk-lore
in all nations. Here we have talk of the occult
powers of animals whether manifested in anger
or protection. All the fairy-tales of the modern
world that are worth while are founded on this
folk-lore-it is alive and lovable in such stories
as those of Grimm, Hans Andersen; it is absent
in the modern mechanically invented fairy-tale
written by those who no longer know and take
refuge in a kind of artificial prettiness and glib
flippancy of invention. I am sometimes inclined
264 THE WAY OF POWER
to think the latest of the Masters was George
Macdonald. He knew. Read his "Phantastes,"
"The Golden Key," "The Carasoyn," "At the
:Back of the North Wind," and you will under-
stand that of all deep realizations in the world
the understanding of animals is what we have
most closely at hand for invaluable psychological
advance. Cardinal Newman (I think in the
Apologia) remarks that we know less of these
lives lived about us than we do of the archangels.
They concern us infinitely more at present, and
the true understanding of them is a direct gate-
way into the higher forms of psychology.
I have seen a dog (who in other hands might
have been "shrieking before his executioners")
lead a man or a woman straight into realization
of U ni_
ty by the power of love (the great Unifier)
and the knowledge it invariably brings with it.
Such a result I have indicated in a short, pro-
foundly true story, "The Openers of the Gate,"
and I know that this is a subject worthy of
closest observation and experiment. Not even
the divinity of a child can open the Gate more
surely than the other when it comes with the
needed moment and to the person who is ready.
Furthermore, those who have gained foothold
THE WAY OF POWER 265
in this little-charted country are aware that some
obscure physical stimulus which -makes for
health of mind and body comes from the com-
panionship of animals-especially the domesti-
cated ones, but not necessarily these. The horse,
dog, and cat occur at once to the mind with their
different powers of stimulating and soothing by
their mere presence. They can unfold in a man
traits hidden even from his own inmost knowl-
edge of himself. They can make revelation to
him in the great mystery of instinct, which is one
of their forms of the subconscious, and they can
communicate with those who understand this in a
way impossible of any analysis in words, but
intimate and near and possibly prefiguring some
means of understanding much closer than
speech.
Among themselves their means of communi-
cation are most interesting. I have observed
clos~ly and with sympathy and understanding
and am convinced that they have more than one
means of this. One, I believe, corresponds with
our telepathy and it is used also as an under-
standing between people who have reached a
certain stage of psychic evolution and the sub-
conscious of the animals they love and who love
266 THE WAY OF POWER
them. Another, also a good deal used between
themselves, is contact. Expression and sound
they use as we do but in a lesser degree, having
quite other means. This mystic intercommunion
may be touched too in the volleying of great
winds or breathing breezes in trees, in the giant
glee of waterfalls thundering down stark preci-
pices, or in the rejoicing of the jubilant abyss of
ocean. He that hath ears, let him hear! And
hearing can · be developed. And so on the
psychic side also. We are discarding the belief
that our ancestors were in all things more gullible
or more mendacious than ourselves. They felt,
they believed, and because they did so they set
down intuition and belief as a record. We have
dismissed both as ignorance and credulity at best,
They held that in animal life, even in plant life,
the psychic sense abides (though they did not
call it that) in varying degree. They felt, if
they did not say it, that these little servants of
the Law also are of "the dateless brood of
Heaven and Eternity." They share with m
these experiences of love, life, and death of
which Schopenhauer wrote:
"I should point out how Beginning and End
meet together and how closely and intimately
THE WAY OF POWER 267
Eros is connected with Death: Now Amenthes,
as the Egyptians called him, is not only the re-
ceiver but the giver of all things. Death is the
reservoir of life. Everything comes from Orcus
-Everything that is alive now and was once
there. Could we but understand the great trick
by which that is done all the world would be
clear."
It is interesting in connection with this quota-
tion to note that in the Song Celestial of India,
dated about the beginning of our era, this verse
occurs:
"Know that That which pervades this Uni-
verse is imperishable. This is never born and
never dies, nor, after being, may its being cease.
This unborn everlasting abiding Ancient is not
slain when the body is slain. For to those who
are born death is sure, and to the dead birth is
sure."
If Schopenhauer had considered the Indian
teachings more deeply than even he did I think
he would have understood "the great trick" and
have had a soul at rest. So, though they could
not put it in that language, the wiser of our
ancestors knew that death did not, could not
extinguish the psyche of the animal they had
268 THE WAY OF POWER
loved or dreaded , and on that presumption they
spoke and acted.
Again, to those who watch animals with care
and understanding it is clear that what we dis-
miss with ignorant superiority as "mere instinct"
covers many mysteries of which we might well
covet the key. Pan instructs his children well.
They are conscious of Presern;es to which we are
blind. Nature, dumb to us, speaks to them
myriad-tongued. It is possible to certain people
to have moments of revelation through the con-
sciousness of some animal very completely in
touch with them, and though people are chary
of talking of experiences scorned by the vast ig-
norances of mankind, those who have known can
assert that knowledge lies along that way,-as
surely as on the physical plane we should see,
hear, and smell in wholly new flashes of experi-
ence if the keenness of the animal sense could be
added to ours.
They have their terrors also for us in many
a ghostly parable. 1
In Japan the ghost-foxes clustered under mid-
night trees with dreadful power upon any human
being who opened a chink by which their in-
fluences could ente r. H iroshige has recorded
THE WAY OF POWER 269
with weird brush a gathering of these perilous
creatures pallid in pale moonlight, waiting their
moment of attack. In China the ghost-tiger
slouches through snow to his dreadful work. But
the animal-psyche is more often friendly and
wise in the tales of all countries. A singing
bird guides the way to the imprisoned princess
who is the Ideal. The dog, who in life lifted his
ears and stared at dangerous presences his master
could not see, is swift after death to guard him
from them. The cat, dangerous to those outside
Realization, employs all her subtlety and wisdom
in her master's aid when she returns as a spirit.
And in the ancient belief animals are often shape-
changers and can slip in and out of the human
body at will. Some of these things are profound
parables; others, as we shall learn, are true, when
we ourselves have realized the immanence of the
Eternal Spirit in all, and the world as it is rather
than as it seems.
It is worth while waiting and watching for the
sake of even a little understanding of the great
truths which underlie the hints I have given.
If, as many know, a lonely man or woman can
rise to realization of the Love that moves the
World through the companionship and under-
270 THE WAY OF POWER
standing of one of "the lower animals" it is time
we considered their manifestations more care-
fully. They know, they see, things we do not,
just as we know, we see, things they cannot.
Nothing but Realization can bring the necessary
fusion.
And there is another form of union which can
be gained from the gradual approach made
through animal life,-oneness with the life of
nature. Here too it is only possible to hint, for
words are lacking. What it aims at is Realiza-
tion of the Universal Spirit manifesting itself
in personified forms ih nature. Consider what
the Greeks aimed at in their high teaching of the
Universal Pan,--or All,-of the spirits innate in
tree, mountain, rivers, and oceans. How can
these things be devoid of an indwelling spirit?
Florensky touches this in an essay on "The Hu-
manitarian Roots of Idealism":
"Are there many people who regard a forest
not merely as a collective pronoun and rhetori-
cal embodiment-i.e., as a pure fiction-but as
something unique, living? The real unity is a
unity of self-consciousness. Are there many who
recognize unity in a forest, i.e., the living soul
THE WAY OF POWER 271
of a forest taken as a whole,-V oodoo, wood-
demon, Old Nick?"
Yes, just as in a crowd, a mob, the collective
spirit possesses them and is one, moving them to
deeds grotesque and terrible, so also the spirit
of a forest is one and not the spirit expressed in
the individual lives which compose it. They in-
dividually resemble the cells of the human body
and collectively form a whole as does the body
which is the summing up of the cells and has a
higher psyche than any one of them.
I have realized this with insight in the great
jungles of the tropics, but it is impossible to
word why and how one knows what one knows,
and to those who do not it is utter foolishness.
There is nothing stranger than the contempt of
one plane of knowledge for another. Doubtless
the solution of all the riddles is simple enough
and we have obscured simplicity by our own
conceit of complexity.
Bain, says Ouspensky, defines genius as the
power of perceiving analogies, and this is a defi-
nition which goes deep in the occult, though none
can deny that surf ace analogies are misleading.
He proceeds to quote Professor James's re-
272 THE WAY OF POWER
markable essay on Fechner as a percipient. I
paraphrase, in my own words and with addition.
Fechner asserts that the entire earth we live
on must have its own collective consciousness.
So must each sun, moon and planet. If so how
true was the inspiration of the Greeks in recog-
nizing a great Earth Spirit to which they gave
the worship due to a goddess. Fechner sees the
Earth as a divine Spirit, the stars as Shake-
speare saw them singing in their orbits, "still
quiring to the young-eyed cherubim." So Fech-
ner concludes it is with the human consciousness.
Yours is yours and mine is mine. Yet they are
known and used together in a higher conscious-
ness than that of the hum an race into which they
enter as constituent parts. To quote Fechner:
"On a certain morning I went out to walk.
The fields were green, the birds sang, the dew
glistened, the smoke was rising. Here and there
a man appeared; a light as of transfiguration
appeared on all things. It was only a little bit
of earth. It was only one moment of her ex-
istence and yet as my look embraced her more
and more it seemed to me not only so beautiful
an idea but so true and clear a fact that she is
an angel-an angel carrying me along with her
THE WAY OF POWER 273
into heaven. I asked myself how the opinions
of men could ever have spun themselves away
from life so far as to deem the Earth only a dry
clod. But such ·an opinion as this passes for
fantasy."
Not to those who have assimilated the great
Indian teaching of the Unity. They will sub-
scribe to Fechner's belief that human life and, I
would add, animal and plant life are the sense-
organs of the Earth-Soul. They know from
what bow is loosed that unearthly shaft of beauty
and how straight it flies to its mark. They know
that together we all stand or fall and therefore
it is that to any even partial understanding of
the true occult, deep perception with regard to
animal life is needed. It is an easier approach
than to that of more remote and silent Nature.
It has revelations to make far nearer our com-
prehension. It is as amazing as it is piteous
that we have done so little yet to cross the gulf .
which we have permitted to divide the speech-
less from the speechful.
It is quite possible to argue that our acquisi-
tion of the art of speech with its limitations may
have closed to us some other more psychic means
of communication and that we have lost as well
274 THE WAY OF POWER
as gained by taking the line of least resistance.
As the development of psychic powers proceeds
it becomes certain that this is so. Telepathy and
audible vision are not bounded by the feeble in-
termittent action of mouth and tongue, and it
becomes evident that animals whose evolution has
proceeded ·on different lines of development may
have certain compensations very difficult for us
to comprehend for their much less developed
power of reason. Reason by no mea:qs has the
last word on the Universe. There are points at
which it becomes an obstacle, an ally of short-
sighted materialism. Wordsworth and greater
minds than his have been content to learn from
what we proudly call the lower farms of life,
and this necessity will be realized more fully as
the spiritual thought of the East enkindles our
own.
A great perfection in their utterance is
achieved in the Song Celestial (the Bhagavad
Gita) of India , written probably towards the
beginning of our own era . Here is given the
vision of Arjuna, the Pandava prince, when
Krishna as the Soul of the Universe instructs
him. In the precedent division Krishna has re-
vealed to him the secret of the One in All and
THE WAY OF POWER 275
All in One-the royal, the hidden wisdom-and
the Prince passioning with insight prays for a
vision of things as they are. He says:
"Of Thy grace to me hast Thou related the
supreme mystic tale called The One Over-Self,
and thereby my bewilderment is dispelled. If
Thou deemest, Lord, that it may be beheld by
me, then show to me Thy changeless Self, 0
Sovereign of the Rule!"
The Lord spake.
"Behold, son of Pritha, the hundreds and
thousands of my forms diverse, divine, various
of colors and shapes. Behold now, 0 Wearer
of the Hair-Knot, the whole Universe, moving
and unmoving solely lodged in this my body and
all else that thou art fain to see. But since with
this thine own eye thou canst not see me I give
thee a divine Eye [the higher consciousness].
Behold my sovereign Rule."
Thus speaking, the Lord of the Rule showed
to Pritha's son his sovereign form supreme.
Of many mouths and eyes, of many marvel-
ous aspects, of many divine ornaments, with up-
lifted weapons many and divine, the boundless
God facing all ways..
There the son of P andu beheld the whole uni-
276 THE WAY OF POWER
verse in its manifold, ·solely lodged in the body
of the God of Gods.
Thereupon the Wealth-Winner, smitten with
amaze, his hair standing on end, bowed his head
and with clasped hands spake to the God.
"I behold Thee massed in radiance on all sides
glittering, scarce discernible, casting forth Splen-
dor like fire and sun immeasura ble.
"Thou art the Universe's Supreme pl ace of
ward. Thou art the Warden of everlasting Law.
"As moths with exceeding speed pass into a
lighted fire to perish, so pass the worlds with ex-
ceeding speed into Thy mouth to perish."
This is possibly the most interesting sti tement
of the vision of the higher consciousness in East-
ern literature. In its vastness it includes all as
the infinite must do. But it includes the infi-
pitely little which is also a necessity of the Law,
and the smallest thing which creeps or flies or
floats its leaves on the ocean of air is as much and
as necessary a part of it as we with our vaunted
humanity. And there is not a leaf, or an insect,
bird, animal, or man, which may not be an
Opener of the Gate into the wondrous land which
lies behind the glittering, misleading looking-
glass of our senses. For, says the Song Celestial,
THE WAY OF POWER 277
"When such a one draws in his sense-instru-
ments altogether from the objects of the sense-
instruments, as a tortoise draws in its limbs, he
has wisdom abidingly set."
And he being sense-free who holds a flower in
his hand or looks into the eyes of a dog may know
more truly than by the tongues of men and an-
gels what the Divine is in the least of these his
brethren and in himself. He will be aware and
awake for all the hauntings of loveliness taking
personal form in the deep solitude of the woods
or on trackless oceans. Desiring no throne for
himself, crowned and clothed with humility, he
will claim no place in the universe because all is
his. And fear can never touch him, because in
the world of the true occult nothing can happen
or exist that is not in conformity with law and
-therefore with a man's own inmost knowledge of
the absolute :fitness of things. Given the pure
heart and tested, disciplined will none need fear
to adventure. But indeed these two are not easy
to· acquire and in any case the wise will begin
with the simplicities and so go on from strength
to strength.
For the teaching of Indian thought is that not
only are all things one with each other and one
278 THE WAY OF POWER
with the One, but that each in its place is the very
keystone of the arch of the universe and the
crown of Law so that without its existence all
would ruin and fall to pieces; and this applies to
what we call the animal kingdo m as fully as to
ourselves. It is probable-n ay, certain, that no
wrong can be done to any member of this grea t
Unity without sending a shudde ring vibration to
the outmost orbit of the outermost star. Only of
fate years has material science begun to realize
that the transplantation of a plant or an animal
from its own sphere to another may bring dis-
aster in its train, and things mat erial are but the
faint shadow of the spiritual reality behind them.
One smiles in reading these grea t truths to think
that they have been attacked because India, once
their fervent believer, has in th e mass followed
other gods and has lost herself in the morasses
of rite and formalism, though not even then with
the materi alistic results among ourselves. Her
sufferings are material and temp orary, her hopes
spiritual and eternal even now. Whereas in the
West our sufferings and hopes are alike for the
most part material. But , be tha t as it may, truth
being eternal can always afford to wait its day
and demonstration.
THE WAY OF POWER 279
The summing up of that matter is that because
each thing is the keystone of the axch, when the
soul is prepared by purity and high discipline the
opening of the Gate may and probably will come
by so simple a means and with such perfect nat-
uralness that those skilled in the wisdom of this
world would disdain it. But it comes and brings
with it such blissful certainty of life, exquisite, .
abundant, eternal in and for all, that the man
who knows may smile in thinking of earth's
prizes.
Is the true occult, then, religion? Religion 'is
certainly a part of it, for nothing is outside its
circumference. And therefore the one impossible
question to answer is, What is it not?
It is at least to know the truth in all things
and to love it, to be a glad inhabitant of the
darkness as of the light, to be the friend of the
whole gradation of light to the highest, to call
nothing co:rpmon or unclean, knowing that all
are one in a mounting perfection. Of such it
may be said in the words of India:
"Dea.th and fear I have not, nor caste nor
creed, father and mother •I have not, nor birth
nor death nor friend nor foe, for I am Existence,
Knowledge, Joy. I am the Blissful One, the
280 THE WAY OF POWER .
1Jlissful One! How should I be bound by hap-
piness or misery? No book nor pilgrimage nor
ceremony can bind me. The body is not mine
nor mine its decay, for I am E xistence, Knowl-
edge, joy."
EPILOGUE
LOOKING BACK THROUGH THESE PAGES I REALIZE
from what very small beginnings, what a very
humble and dubious observation of the "occult"
I started and to what vast conclusions it led me.
I do not for a moment say it would lead others
in the same way, for every man has his own
dharma as it is called in India, his own right,
wrong, physical, circumstantial, spiritual con-
sciousness by which alone he can live in any full
sense.
I have inclined to wonder whether it would
have been better to write the whole thing as a
finished statement rather than as creeping pain-
fully from step to step of insight and revelation
as I have done. But I decided against recasting
it, for its gradual climb is more human and is as
it truly befell and therefore possibly more help-
ful to others in these perplexiti~s. I have not of
course told all my personal experiences. That
would not be possible. But there is one thing I
should like to make very clear. The powers can
281
282 THE WAY OF POWER
be attained. Of that there can be no doubt. The
faiths are largely based upon the fact that many
have attained them, and they bring great things
in their train. But let it be remembered that
those who have attained them set little value on
the powers in themselves. ReaJ,ization is what
matters, not the power to startle or awe the multi-
tude. Here we have all who have attained the
higher consciousness, who have known the truth,
in full agreement. The Buddha unfrocked a
monk for exhibiting a "ma rvel" without due oc-
casion and sternly discouraged such "show-off."
A very much later teache r in India, when a dis-
ciple came with triumph to show him that he had
in sixteen years acquired the power of walking
on the water, replied:
"Why waste sixteen years in attaining what
the ferryman can do for you for a penny? ."
St. Paul points out that the powers such as
speaking with tongues and others must vanish
away but that love (union) abides eternally. A
great Indian saint said of these powers:
"They may have a certain use in establishing
the truth of our stateme nts; even a little glimpse
gives faith that there is something beyond gross
matter, but those who spend time on such things
THE WAY OF POWER 283
run into great dangers. These are frontier ques-
tions. The boundary line is always shifting."
This was said by one who had practiced the
sternest asceticism, who had frequently entered
the state of ecstasy-who could so forget the
body that it became perfectly insensitive.
Professor Radhakrishnan most truly says:
"The supernormal powers are really obstacles
to Samadhi [the higher form of consciousness].
They are by-products .of the higher life. They
are the flowers we pick on the road though the
true seeker does not set out to gather them. He
who falls a victim to the magical powers goes
rapidly downward. Devotion to the Divine is
one of the aids to Yoga."
These warnings are very necessary, for in In-
dia and elsewhere are instances of the degrada-
tion of this research into most repulsive and terri-
ble practices and consequences. From these the
original Yoga is pure. But, as in all mountain-
climbing, the heights have their perils. I could
multiply instances of the teachings of the saints
in all the faiths that the power to use the super-
normal in this way matters nothing and may be
dangerous unless in circumstances of perfect un-
284 THE WAY OF POWER
derstanding. What does matter is to understand,
to know, to realize.
I think this cannot be too strongly dwelt upon.
I will end with another truth. In India the
wisest have never talked of good and evil. They
have talked of knowledge and ignorance. And
those two words cover the whole realm of the "oc-
cult" and the whole of life, and may themselves
be summed up and obliterated in the one word-
"REALIZATION''
For that is the key of the universe, and it sits
above "good arid evil."
I conclude with a quotation from Professo r
Radhakrishnan that offers the conclusion to
which my own experiences and those of many
others have led me.
"The normal limits of human vision are not the
limits of the universe. There are other worlds
than that which our senses reveal to us, other
senses than those which we share with the lower
animals, other forces than those of material na-
ture . Most of us go through life with eyes half
shut and with dull minds and heavy hearts. It
is good to know that the ancient thinkers required
THE WAY OF POWER 285
us to :realizethe possibilities of the soul in solitude
and silence and to transform the flashing and
fading moments of vision into a steady light
which could illumine the long years of life."
This is the true Occult.
THE END
