{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__curtiss___health_hints_for_four-fold_health.pdf","mytitle":"Health Hints For Four-fold Health","mylang":"de"}
HEALTH HINTS FOR
FOU·R-FOLD HEALTH
FOR THE PURIFICATION AND HEALTH OF
THE BODY, KIND AND EMOTIONS
BY
F. HoJD:R f:tmTISs, B. S., lrL D.
Co-foamder of Thl U•iwrml IUiigimu Fourttltllitnl, lae.
Thl Ordw of Clwillilm M,nie•
- .
Co-Autbor of·''Tbe Curtiss Boob.""
Sec:mid and Reviied Edition
THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC
BOOK CO.
Washington. D. C., U.S. A.
-· 193 8
Cotwriaht. 1936, by
TBB U:arn:aiAL Rnmmus I'"OUBDAT10110
. INC.
••
Lono11 AGDTS
L N. Fowler &: Co.
7.1mterial ~ ~ Cirall,
HEALTH HINTS
INTRODUCfiON
We are constantly receiving letters from our
students in all parts of the world asking for our
prayers for their health. But as all of these letters
show that the ill health is the result of wrong habits
of life, diet and thought, we have assembled herein
some simple general rules and practices which both
scientific research and years of experience have
proved essential to good health. Obviously, only
the most essential facts and details can be given,
hence we may disappoint those who place great
emphasis on some one phase or fad, important
though it may be for certain ends.
Body an Instrument.-First, it should be under-
stood that since the body is the instrument through
which the Soul contacts this earth plane, the Soul
is limited in its expression by the kind of body in
which it incarnates, and to its health, perfect devel-
opment, training, and its responsiveness to the guid-
ance of the indwelling Soul.
Healtb.~Second, it should be remembered that
1
,
2 HEALTH HINTS
perfect health is 100% functioning of all our organs
and tissues. Lack of health is merely a deficiency
in harmonious bodily functioning. The_ way to
maintain health is to stop making.ourselves sick by
wrong Jmbits of thought, emotion, diet and actions.
D1 health- is but ~ symptom of broken Jaw; the in-
ability of the body to relieve its maladjustments and _
eliminate its poisons. Most so-called treatm~t is
but the palliation of symptoms without the elimina-
tion of their fundamental causes. Health means not
merely freedom from disease but freedOm from
fatigue, frcmi the blues, and the negative and cie:.·
stiuctive emotions as well.
Third, we -reap the results of all we sow. If we
violate the laws of harmony in Nature, whether they
be physical, mental, psychic or spiritual laws, we
must expect to reap corresponding inharmonious
-'results.
_Pain Necessary.-By unpleasant, even painful
symptoms, Nature gives us ample warning month
after month that something is wrong with our habits
of life, and that a change is necessary. Pain is
• a
often necessary for self-preservaqon, through pre-
venting excessive abuse of the ~y leading to fatal
con~ons. If we do not heed the warning, she
does her best until so overcome that she can no
longer carry on. Then we pay attention, but often
only after great damage has been done ·and much
INTRODUCTION 3
unnecessary suffering bas been endui-ed. Pain is
valuable in calling man's attention to wrong condi-
tions which should be remedied, not only by pal- ·
liatives which merely mask the pain, but by change
of habits.
Prayer.-Wbile prayer and aftiimations properl}r
invoked and sincerely belie'Oed in and relied upon.
will" always give at least temporary relief and help
in time of trouble or suffering, and often miraculous
cures because of great meritorious _Karma, yet if
the causes of that trouble or suffering are not.
stopped or eliminated, naturally they will continue
to produce their unhaPPJ. results. Therefore, do
not expect psychological or spiritual forces to give ,
more than temporary relief, or to produce a per-
manent cure, unless you change your habits of life
in iuch a way as to eliminate the carue.r. be they
mental, emotional, psychicor physical. For instance,
if you have a splinter in your finger, there is no use-
either: denying that it is there, affirming that it will
do no harm or praying to God to remove it for you.
You have to recognize it for what it is and remove
it yourself.
Immunity.-As we have said elsewhere: "You
are normally immune to all diseases as long as your
'inner radiance,' your vitality or life-force is up to
normal. But if it 'becomes depleted in any way-
through overwork, exposure, wrong diet, inadequate
4 HEALTH HINTS
elimination, worry, negative thoughts, destructive
emotions, etc.,-then your normal rate of vibrati~
is I9)Vered, and the body then becomes a soil or
'culture medium' in which lower fonns of life-
genus, bacteria, nematodes, etc.,-can grow, and by
their poisonous excretions-toxins-upset the whole
system."1
The obvious thing to do, therefore, is to see that
your vitality is always kept up to normal by remov-
ing all the factors that interfere with or lower it,
whether they be structural, functional, toxic, die-
tetic, mental, emotional or psychic.
Disease.-Disease attacks only deficient tissues
whose lowered vitality cannot resist the attack of
other organisms, or fatigue, exposure or nerve ex-
haustion, etc. When not poisoned by the inade-
quate elimination of waste; and when properly
nourished by rightly combined and properly masti-
1:ated foods, and when controlled by constructive
thoughts and emotions, you should never be tired,
negative, sick, discouraged or subject to the blues.
NQ~Y you should be positive, cheerful, optimis-
tic and ha_ppy, and capable of thinking clearly, mak-
ing-your decisions quickly, full of ambition and
perseverance. All of these are the normal attributes
of health.
Restoration.-AU diseases, includingangina, ane-
1 See Jesson P~t~r Nol. Curtiss. Send for free CI01JT·
INTRODUCTION 5
mia, ·goitre, ulcers, tuberculosis, skin, kidney, liver,
nervous diseases, etc., are but the end results of
broken laws, whether of physical, chemical or mental
unbalance, which permits them to manifest. They
·are all subject to restoration to normal through the
elimination of their causes and the elimination of
their effects. Since the cells die daily and hourly,
we are reborn ce11 by ce11 daily, hence can build in
new and disease-resisting cells until our entire body
is made over in the image of the ideals we hold,
and with the materials we furnish it through prop-
erly selected and properly combined foods.
Body Poisons.-The body usually expels violent
poisons, but wrong food combinations produce mild
poisons which accumulate and produce toxemia.
Four-Fold Health.-We wish to emphasize that
perfect health must be four-fold, i.e., physical, men-
tal, emotional and spiritual. Treatment of any one' .
phase alone is not sufficient for a permanent cu~
Do not expect that treatment on any one plane will
produce perfect results. The wrong habits of life
on all four planes which are producing inharmony
must be changed ere the causes will cease producing
their unhappy effects.
CllAPTER I
MECHANICAL FACTORS IN HEALTH
Structural Defects.-Very-few bodies areperfect
in all their structural parts and functions. Many
bodily ailments are due to organs or bones being out
of pJace or sagging, often due to lack of tone be-
cause their nerve or blood supply is being interfered
with. Usually this is due to slight displacements
of the bones. of the spine which press upon ~e ·
nerves which come out from the- spinal cord between
them. For instance, sciatica is nearly always due to
pressure on one of the nerve trunks forming the
great sciatic nerve, after it branches off the spinal
·eordand passes between the bones of the spine. Also -
~ppendicitis is ·almost instantly relieved by the ad-
justment of the second lumbar vertebra, etc. Simi-
lar conditions of slight ablionruil j,ressure occut
frequently at the base of the brain, in the neck and
anywhere else along the spine.
Adjustments.-Hence, a proper adjustment re-
lieves the congestion and its symptoms almost im-.
media~y. The entire spine should be examined
and adjusted by a chiropractor, osteopath, naturo-
6
MECHANICAL FACTORS IN HEALTH 7
. path or other properly trained practitioner. Many
of the younger and better trained practitioners pro-
tect you from wrong diagnosis by using the ·x~ray,
neurocalometer and several other instruments to
determine the exact condition before making the ad-
justments. As long as there is physical interference
with the nerve and blood supply of the organs,
nerves, endocrine glands, the brain or other struc-
tures, you cannot expect them to function normally.
And if the gl~~ do not function normally they
produce deficient and abnormal products which are
often irritating if not actually poisonous, and hence
upset the entire body chemistry and funCtioning.
Neither~rnind nor medicine can be curatiVe· if -the
cause is a mechanical one. The displacement must
·be corrected first.
Recurrence.-When not due to accidents, twists,
strains, etc., most of these displacements are du~ to
the irregular pull of muscular spasms, hence tend to
recur until the cause of the irritated nerves is re-
moved. Usually 1his is an acid or toxic condition
which is relieved and only really cured, not by the
adjustment, but by detoxication and proper diet.
Need for Exercise.-The body is a living organ- .
ism which needs proper exercise of all its functions
if they are to work together properly. Persons
whose livelihood does not require much mu.•=cnlar
exertion in the open air cannot properly oxidize
8 HEALTH HINTS
much of their food without exercise, and without
this all their functions tend to stagnate.
Object of Exercise.-The primary aiin of exer-
cise is not merely to strengthen the muscles used, but
to stimulate the circulation, respiration and elimina-
tion. The increased activity quickens the heart beat,
strengthens the heart muscle and flushes all the
tissues with freshly aerated blood. The increased
respiration draws more air into the lungs, thus en-
abling the blood to carry more oxygen to the tissues
· and produce heat and energy. It also purifies the
blood by enabling it to throw off more gaseous waste
products. The increased heat induces perspiration
and thus increases elimination through the skin.
Exercise also stimulates elimination through the
bowels and kidneys, and tones up the whole body.
Exercise also tends to correct slight dislocations of
spine or other joints; and relaxes undue tension or
contractimt of muscles, thus giving equalization and
poise. Persons who are weakened by illness, malig-
nant diseases, tumors, ruptures and serious displace-
ments should not exercise except under specialized
directions. Do not take difficult or excessive exer-
cise on a full stomach. ••
Outdoor Exercise.-Qne of the best of general
exercises is to take a brisk walk of at least a mile
or two in the open air each day. This may be taken
to and from work, or at least part way. It should
MECHANICAL FACTORS IN HEALTH 9
be brisk enough to produce apleasing feeling of
exertion and quickened pulse and respiration, but
not-far enough to produce fatigue. Swimming and
games are also excellent exercises. r
Rhythmic Walking.-Walking may be combined
with mental and spiritual forces by the following
exercise: As you stride along, rhythmically repeat
some phrase which expresses your realization or
need. For instance, inhale while you take four
strides, mentally repeating, "I breathe in health,"
one word with each stride. During the next four
strides exhale and repeat, "I breathe out waste," or
"I am made pure." Repeat the phrase for some time
during your walk. Next day take another phrase
if desired, such as, "I breathe in love," during the
inhalation, and "I breathe out blessmg," on the ex-
halation.
Indoor Exercises.-The outdoor work may be
supplemented by indoor exercises which involve
l!ending, twisting and stretching at the waist, so
that alternate pressure and stretching is brought
upon the internal organs to squeeze out stagnant
blOod and suck in a fresh supply. This overcomes
·the congestion that occurs from Jack of exercise,
stimulates peristalsis, helps overcome Constipation,
etc. Such exercises can be found in any good book
or magazine on health or physical exercise, although
some sample exercises are given herewith. The best
,
10 HEALTH HINTS
time for indoor exercise is on rising and just before
retiring.
Sample ezercises.-Repeat each of the following
exeiclses seven times for the first week, then in-
a~e one more time each day until the amount
desired is reached. Stop each time before becom-
ing ti{ed.
1. Swing the arms upward overhead, elbows
straight. Bend forward and reach as far down to
the toes as possible without bending the knees. Then
swing arms back overhead. Do tJot bmd baci bacle-
wanl, but stretch straight upward and repeat.
2. With arms straight overhead, fingers locked,
twist body to right, bend and try to touch the right
ankle. Then stretch upward, twist tQ left and try to
touch the left ankle. ·
3. With arms out shoulder high, twist body to
right as far as possible. Twist back to front, stop
and·stretch. Then twist to left.
· 4. 'With feet well spread and hands clasped over
left shoulder, swing arms well down between the
legs hard, as though chopping a block of wood.
Swing the hands upward and outward diagonally
to the right and up to the right shoulder. Repeat
the downward swing and up on to left shoulder. .
5. Lie flat on the back. Bend the knees up to
the chest and give them a vigorous squeeze with the
arms, and return to position.
MECHANICAL FACfORS IN HEALTH 11
6. Lie fiat on the back. Reach right toe over
left leg and touch the floor as far to the left as pos-
sible. Repeat seven times, then repeat to the right
with the left toe. Keep shoulders fiat on floor, twist
only at the waist. Reduces hips.
7. Lie fiat on the back. Keep the lmees straight
and lift them straight overhead. Take this gently
at first. As your strength increases increase the
number of times you take the exercise.
If any of these exercises, or the subsequent
breathing exercises, make you dizzy, make your
heart palpitate or give any unpleasant symptoms,
stop at once and take fewer next time.
Bathing.-Whenever possible the exercises
should be followed by a cool sponge or towel bath.
A brisk shower or quick tub rinse may be preferred
by those who are especially vigorous, but not for
those beyond middle age. A towel partially wrung
out of cool water will give all the needed stimulation.
Begin by washing the face, neck and ears, then the
arms, chest, back and legs in succession. Then take
a coarse rough tOwel and rub the body briskly until
the skin.is dry and pink with the accelerated c:irc:ula-
tion. The value lies flot ifl the amotmt of water
used, but in its cool tonic effect and in the rubbing.
in its effect on the pores, nerves and circulation. If
this is done daily, a thorough soaking in a tub and
12 HEALTH HINTS
scrubbing with soap will not be required more than
once or twice a ·week.
Tonic Bath.-This bath cools down and soothes
the nerves and parts involved, retards fermentation
and gas formation, and stimulates elimination.
Draw three or four inches of cool water in the
ordinary bath tub. Sit down, with the back
leaning against a turkish towel hung over the slant-
ing end of the tub. Keep the knees bent and
spread so only the feet, seat and sexual organs wiU
be in the water. Dash the water over the abdomen
and rub it vigorously, also the sides and back as far
as you c:an reach. Then lower the legs and dash
the water over the upper part of the body. Step out
of the tub and dry by rubbing vigorously with the
bare hands only.•
Sun and Air Baths.-The value of frequent ex-
posure of the skin to the air and sun is beyond the
experimental stage in modem medicine. Aside from
the increased metabolism and aU the effects of chemi-
cal and physiological action of the actinic, infra-red
and ultra-violet rays of the sun, exposure to light
and air is stimulating to the mentally depressed, to
the neurotic, the anemic and those suffering from
melancholia, worry, lassitude and insomnia. It not
-only increases bodily tone and energy, but mental
responses are brisker and mental activities are more
• OrlWwfdiu, Broughton, 145.
MECHANICAL FACTORS IN HEALTH 13
pronounced. Daily exposure of ·from five minutes
at first may be gradually increased to several hours.
Nudism.-All the beneficial therapeutic e1fects,
and also all that is essential in the physical and
· mental control of the passions, as advocated by the
nudists, can be attained by familiarity with the
sight of the exposed body while clad only in short
trunks, such as men wear at most of the bathing
beaches, but without the exposure of the sex organs .
themselves. Hence there is no adequate ezct~Se for
catering to exluoitionism through complete nudisin.
ClL\PTEJl D
BREATHING
Breathing.-There is a definite ·science of the
breath into the tedmique of which we cannot ~ _,
Ui this short treatise. Such technical exercises
should not be.taken except under the personal guid-
ance of a qualified teacher. Hence we will give only
some simple fundamentals. The breathing exercise
recommended while walking is given_chiefly for its
physical effect, that is, increasing the intake of oxy-
gen and expelling as much of the volatile wastes
(gases) as possible. In sedentary work only about
10% of the air in the lungs is expelled in breathing,
the rest being residual or dead air. Hence the neces-
sity for deep breathing for con'lplete aeration of the
blood, as it takes at least ten· full breaths to clear
the lungs of the old .stagnant, poison-laden air. -...
Uses of the Breath.-Ne\Ter consciotisly use the
breath without holding some constructiVe thought
or idea; for what we hold in mind at that time is
stamped upon the electrons of each cell. Happy,
positive and constructive thoughts and emotions ex~
pand and illumine the electrons, while negative or
14
BREATHING 15
destructivethoughts and emotions shrink and deaden
them and retard or even pervert their proper func-
tioning.
·Changing the Rhytbm.-To tum the normally
unconscious function of breathing into a consciously
directed fUnction for definite ends, its rhythm must
be altered. Breathing can be used to correlate mind
and OO.:ly~ ~use It alters t;.e ci~tion ~d brin~.
mare oxygenated blood to the brain. Slowing the
rh~ of the breath slo~ the circulation to the
brain and so calms both thoughts and emotions, and
produces a quiet, calm mood, like pouring oU on
troubled waters. Therefore, when mentally-or emO:
tionally ~cited, disturbed, worried or under a ten-
sion, sit down and relax all tension of body and take.
the following exercise. .
Such frequent deh"berate relaxation is a potent
safeguard against fatigue and worry.
The Calming Breath.-Asstmle the posture for
meditation as follows:
Sit in as quiet a place as posst"ble where you can be
free from interruption. Sitona straight-backedchair,
always in the same place and chair, facing the East.
in the morning and the North in the evening. Allow
the·hands to rest comfortably on the thighs with the
palms up and with the thumbs touching the tips of
the first fingers.
Have the feet flat on the floor a few inches apart.
16 HEALTH IDNTS
.
Sit with the head erect, the chin in and the spine
straight. Do not let the back touch the chair. The
position is exactly that in which the Egyptian statues
are seated. The position should not be stiff or rigid,
but comfortably erect and well poised and with the
clothing loose.
Inhale slowly and quietly through both nostrils
a comfortably deep, steady breath, with the mouth
closed. First fill out the abdomen and then slowly
fill up the lungs comfortably full, yet without ten-
sion or straining.
Be careful that the muscles of the neck and throat
are not tense or rigid. To be sure of this, tum and
bend the head from side to side for a moment to
remove all strain and rigidity.
Pulse Rate.-Use your normal pulse-rate to give
your rhythm. Inhale quietly for 6, 8 or 10 heart-
beats. Hold the breath for half the number of ·in-
take counts-3, 4 or 5-then completely empty the
lungs ~uring the same number of counts as used
during the intake. Hold the breath out and the
lungs empty for half the exhalation counts, then
slowly and rhythmically begin to inhale again. After
you hlve learned your rhythm, you will not need to
distract your attention from the object of the breath
~~-,
by counting. When you exhale, relax. completely,
and let go all tension of body and mind.
What to Think.-As we have said elsewhere:
BREATHING 17
"During the inhalation hold the thought that you
are breathing in the forces of love, stren~ cour-
age and Purity or any other virtue you desire; that
during the pause they are filling you full to overflow-
ing," 1
and that during the outbreathing you are
breathing out all your troubles, anxieties and cares,
and dissipating them like exhaust steam. Repeat
this from seven to fifteen times or until you feel re-
laxed and calm. At any time of day or night when
you find yourself hurried, worried or under a nerv-
ous strain, sit down quietly and practice this relax-
ation and quietness. The power of this simple
exercise to calm and restore the normal rhythm to
both body and mind will scarcely be believed by
those who have not tried it. It alone can calm an
agitated mind or cheer a sad heart and restore-oiie
to peace and harmony with the world.
The Cleansing Breath.-Inhale slowly your reg-
ular number of counts. Hold the breath for half
that number of counts and then exhale it in seven
short expulsive tuffs. with the lips puckered as if
about to whistle. As you exhale, relax your erect po-
sition, allowing the lungs to deflate and collapse,
while the body slumps forward in complete reiaxa-
tion as the last bit of breath is exhaled. Theli. raise
the body to its erect posture again and repeat. ...
Think..;....During the inhalation, hold the thought
1 Tlw Yoi&1 of 16U. Curtiss, 35L
18 HEALTH HINTS
that.you are drawing in Divine Love, Infinite Life,
Perfection and Spiritual Power which sba11 fill your
aura to overftowing and wash out, and also protect
you, from all inharmony or danger, and also conquer
all obstacles. This breath starts all the vital energies
into activity all over the body to purify it by dissolv-
ing and washing out all poisonous waste materials.
Therefore, hold the thought of its purifying and up-
lifting you in body as well as in mind.
With each outward puff hold the thought that
you are expelling all mental irritations, inhannonies,
impurities and imperfections that you have recog-
nized during your period of self-examination the
night before, tOgether with anything disagreeable
that you may have dreamed about or experi~
during the night.
S. this • • the ,. • • f
mce exerase mcreases e •mmation o
wastematerials, quite naturally one of its first effects
win be to stir up the wastes in your body which
havebeen allowed to ac:cumulatemore or less. Hence
you should be especially ~fut to use proper food
combinations, plenty of green vegetables, especially
natural laxatives,• etc., also a glass of water or fruit
juices every three hours or so between meals during
the day in order to stimulate and facilitate elimina-
tion. Repeat this ·Cleansing Brealh seven times or
until you feel cleansed and purified. If you feel
dizzy, stop and rest awhile.
• See pip 26-7.
BREATIDNG . 19
Prana.-But there are other life-forces in the
air besides the oxygen. There is the vital life-force
of the ethers which is called prana. This force can
be consciously drawn in, absorbed and used to cbarge
the body with life-force or vitality so that it will
prevent fatigue, resist disease, endure extremes of
heat and cold and change the tone of your thoughts
and emotions, and hence of your bodily reactions.
Vitalizing Breath.-Whenever tired, debilitated,
discouraged, weak or negative, you can charge your
body with the vital, energizing life-force of prana
by taking the following exercise. Make a habit of
doing this every moming after your bath, breathing
and prayers, ·whether you feel that you need it
especially or not.
Stand facing the East, in the sunlight if possible.
Hold the arms forward shoulder high, with the
palms facing outward toward the Sun. Hold the
bead level, but turn the eyes upward as though you
were looking through your eyebrows. This brings
the proper tension on the optic nerve. As you slowly
inhale your normal number of counts, draw the
bands straight back until they are opposite the sides
ot" the shoulders; but with the. palms still facing
forward. Have the shoulder blades touching in the
back.
Think.-As you inhale, hold the thought that you
are drawing in the currents of Divine Life (prana)
20 HEALTH mNTS
through the center between the eyebrows (Adjna)
toward which you are looking. See it pouring in as a
stream of radiant white light which fills your body
full to overflowing. Hold the breath half the num-
ber of inhalation counts, and as you exhale and re-
lax, gently flood the entire body with its life-giving
radiance and warmth. Repeat seven times-the first
1
week, then increase one time each day until twenty-
one is reached. This will so charge your body with
dynamic life-force and magnetism that you will be
able to meet all the conditions and problems of the
day with a positive attitude and under the guidance
of the Christ within. Realize that your elimination,
and the inflow of the spiritual forces, makes the body
more resistant to all forms of inbarmony, weariness,
sic:kness and disease. For no disease can attack a
body that is normal in tone and radiating positive
vitality. Try it and prove it, then use it daily.
Transmuting Breath.-1£- troubled with exces-
sive congestion of the sex centers, or thoughts there-
of, remember that all glands are stimulated by
thought as well as contact, just as your mouth wa-
ters at the thought of food. To maintain control,
deliberately tum your thoughts to other things or
perform some kind of creative work with hands or
mind. Also you may sit facing the East and use the
following Prayer to the Divine Mother.
BREATHING 21
Prayer.-0 Divine MotherI Dlumine me with
Divine Wisdom, vivify me with Divine Life and
purify me with Divine Love, that in all I think and
say and do I may be more and more Thy child.•
Then as you inhale rhythmically draw the forces
from the base of the spine and surrounding region
up through the central canal of the spinal cord to
the center of the brain (Sahasrara). Hold them
there during the pause, and exhale them through
the center in the forehead (.~djna). Repeating this
from seven to twenty-one times, or more if neces-
sary, will lift up the forces and give quick relief
and a sense of lightness, purity and power.
Spiritualizing Breath.-When in special need of
spiritual power, use the following
Prayerfor ReaUzation.-0 Eternal BeingI Thou
ever Living OneI Thou loving I Am Presence,
whose I Am and whom I serveI Thou art anchored
in me and I in Thee. Thou art mine and I am
Thine. Thou art my eternal pattern. Make me
more and more like Thee.
Then breathe rhythmically. As you inhale draw
down a ray of brilliant white light from your radiant
I Am Presence, or Higher Self, through the top
of the head (Sahasrara). Hold it in the center of
aFor farther details see Tlw Jl'Utlfl' D/ .AqtltlritJ, Curtiss,
433. '
22 · HEALTH WNTS
your brain during the ~ and as you exhale
focus it in your heart until i~ becomes a .glowing
ball of dazzling white light whose radiance fills
your whole body. Repeat seven to twenty-one times
or until thoroughly charged with the warm glow of
the spiritual fire.
CHAPTER Ill
CONSTIPATION
Auto-to:xemia.-Qne vitally important and al-
most universal factor in ill health iS constipation.
This permits continuous absorption of poisons from
the intestines and produces auto-toxemia which is the
greatest underlying cause of all diseases.
Peristalsis.-As the undigested remnants of the
food, such as aU cellulose or the structural fibers of
vegetables, called· roughage, pass along the intes-
tines, all the digestible dements and fluids are con-
tinually being a6sorbed. But if the bowel movement
--called peristalsis-is sluggish, the bacteria nor-
mally present to help disintegrate the food are re-
inforced by putrifying bacteria, and the sluggish
movement of the debris. gives the latter time to
multiply and produce their poisonous toxines and
gases-indol, skatol, etc.
Putrifaction.-Unless these gaseous products and
toxines are promptly eliminated, they are absorbed .
by the blood and thus poison the entire system, often
in such quantity that they are exhaled as bad odors
-sO-caned halitOsis-through the breath, but onf-y
23
. 24 HEALTH HINTS
after they have bathed and poisoned all the tisSues
of your body, including the brain.
Therefore, when you are constipated euery ceU
and tissue and organ is also constipated and clogged
up with uneliminated or reabsorbed poisons. These
may produce mental sluggishness or brain fag, even ·.
tempOrary insanity; nearly all i~sane persons are
badly constipated. Headaches, neuralgia and rheu-
matic pains that are considered only local are merely
symptoms of the filth that bas been absorbed from
the colon. Therefore, regular, full and free bowel
movements, at least two or three times a day, are
essential and basically important. Do not expect
perfect health without them.
Lactic Add.-Lactic acid destroys the putrifying
bacteria and promotes the growth of the helpful,
symbiotic bacteria. Hence the frequent use of sour
milk, clabber or buttermilk, which contain lactic acid
forming bacteria-bacillus acidophilus and b. bifidus
-help to purify the bowels and reduce putrifaction,
hence tend to longevity.
Bulk.-There should he sufficient bulk of undi-
gestible residue to slightly distend the bowels and
give them something for the muscles to work on and
push along. Bulk is also needed to gather up and
sweep out particles of residue too small to be pushed
along by themselves. This bulk is usually supplied
by the undigestible cellulose, lignin, xylose, etc.,
CONSTIPATION 25
particularlyof the leafy greens such as spinach, kale,
beet and turnip tops, dandelion, etc., as well as
celery, cabbage, broccoli, sauerkraut, parsnips,
squash, etc. Where this bulk is insufficient it can be
supplied by the use of substitutes of little or no food
value, but which swell and give great bulk, such as
the sea-weed, agar, Irish moss, flax or psyllium seed
or preparations thereof such as Konsyl, Kondremul,
etc. But theseadjuvants should be taken either with,
or immediately after the meal so they will mix with
remnants of the food and help pass it along, other-
wise they may form lumps by themselves and thus
cause obstruction.
Fluids.-Another important factor is sufficient
fluids. All foods must be digested into a fluid state
before they can be absorbed into the blood which
carries them to the tissues. This· requires consider-
able water or other fluids. While the _digestive
juices should not be unduly diluted during meals,
at ~~~~ one cup of soup or other ftuid should be
taken with or after each-meal. But each mouthful
of food should be thoroughly chewed to a thin cream
and not be washed down with drink. Since the-
ftui~ ;~.re rapidly absorbed during the first two hours
after a meal, there is usually left in the stomach a
residue which is too thick to be absorbed without .
dilution. Therefore, always take a glass of water an
hour and a half to two hours after each meal.
26 . HEALTH HINTS
B. 0.-5ince the body is two-thirds water by
weight, and is c:on$J1tly losing it by excretion and
evaporation, unless it is frequently replenished the
perspiration becomes odorous--commonly called
"B.O.," or body odor-the urine becomes scanty,
concentrated and often_ irritating. If water is not
furnished freely, it will be absorbed from the colon,
along with its acids and toxins, leaving the bowels
dry and constipated. Therefore, make a regular
practice of drinking a glass of water or fruit or
vegetable juice every three hours. Always stop in
mid-morning and mid-afternoon for your drink.
Thinned Blood.-The water is absorbed directly
into the blood, so tbat within a half hour after drink-
ing you have_a half pint more blood. It is therefore
that much thinner and more ftuid, and hence is more
able to Wash out the Waste products from the tissues
and eliminate them. As you sip the.water, hold the
mental picture of its ft~ right through you,
washing out both your tissues and your bowels.
The excessive drinking-16 to 24 glasses-advo-
cated by some, only stimulates rapid excretion and
puts an unnecessary strain on the kidneys, but at
least~ to eight ghu;ses ofJJmds-should be taken.
daily.
Luative Foods.-Inadditionto thebeneficial re-
sults of both bulk and ftuids, certain foods chemically
stimulate the peristaltic action of the bowels and so
CONSTIPATION' 27.
push the debris along more rapidly. Among such-
foods are D;Jost fresh fruits, particularly figs, pnmes,1
grapes, cherries, etc. Among the vegetables, all the
leafy or salad ~les, and onions, are also laxa-
tive. On the other hand, cheese and berries, particu-
brfy blackberries, are constipating. In fact, an
old-time remedy· for diarrhoea is blackberries or a
tea made from their d6ed leaves. But diarrhoea
should not be checked until after a large dose of
Pluto Water or salts bas been taken to sweep out
the irritating cause.
Habit.-Another helpful factor is habit. Always
go to the stool as soon as the impulse comes. If
pat off over a few minutes the ~e may pass
by and disappear for hours, thus allowing accu-
mulation and absorption ~ take place. Newr neg-
lect o call of Nature. Excuse yourself and go at
tma. Let otlier ~ wait. This is vitally im-
portant if you ever expect to be cured. .
Train the Subconsc:ious.-Unless you have two
or more regular, soft and effortless evacuations each
day, you are constipated.
Therefore, train the subamsc:ious mind tobe ready
to evacuate regularly at certain times of day. Go
regularly at those times and do the best you can
without undue straining, until the habit is estab-
1 u~ Santa Clara pnmes if possible, as tbq an: said to lie
less add~l'OnDing_-·
28" HEALTH HINTS
lished of having a perfect stool at that hour. Undue
straining is apt to bring on piles or hemorrhoids
when the colon is congested. A perfect stool should
be so soft that it is barely formed, about the shape
of a good sized banana, and should leave the rectum
as clean and free as your esophagus is after swal-
lowing.
Simple Enema.-A simple enema is a pint or two
of water which simply washes out lower bowel or
rectum. Even if you have a perfect stool every day,
there are many pockets in the intestines where feces
may collect in large masses. Therefore, make a
regular practice of washing out, not merely the rec-
tum but the entire colon. This will wash out the
acids and toxines, even if there is but little solid
matter to remove. Repeat this daily until you have
two movements a day besides the enema.
AccumulatioDS.-If accumulations occur, even
..
though a small amount is discharged from the lower
end of the colon daily, the bowel still remains
clogged by more waste flowing into it at the upper
end. Hence constipation may be persistent and con-
tinuous in spite of some daily discharge. Long re-·
tention of this filth allows it to harden, forming chy
incrustations which often adhere to the bowel walls
sometimes for months and years, stretching the
colon to two or three times, its normal size. Cases
have been lmown to measure 18 inches in circumfer-
CONSTIPATION 29
ence, resembling a tumor, and containing as much
as two gallons of festering filth. The high enema
should be continued until no more solids come away.
Purgatives.-A colon that is constantly whipped
into action by some irritating drug sooner or later
becomes torpid and insensitive to the expulsion
stimulus of its nonnal contents and so acquires a
functional paralysis. The more irritating or "active"
the drug, the more profound the exhaustion of the
sensitivity ultimately becomes.
Spastic Colon.-On the other band, the continued
use of purgatives may be so irritating as to cause
"spastic colon," in which condition the bowel is in
a state of more or less constant contraction. This
lessens the size and motility of the bowel and adds
to the C:onstipation. ·
High Colonic.-Since in all diseased conditions
there is both acidosis and auto-toxemia, and ~
cially when masses have accumulated, a special type
of enema, called a "high colonic," is required. This
is needed, not merely to flush out the lower rectum,
but must contain enough water to fill the entire
colon-descending, transverse, ascending-way over
to the appendix on the lower right side of the abdo-
men. This large amount of water is needed gradu-
ally to dissolve the accumulated masses from which
so much toxic absorption has been continually taking
place, and wash them out. For when the bowel
30 HEALTH HINTS
has been greatly stretched by accumulations it can-
not empty· itself.
Prevent Absorption.-To prevent absorption
from the toxins dissolved by the high colonic, at least
two to four glasses of water, preferably hot for its
~g e1kS should be drunk ileTo'iiaking the·-
colonic. Otherwise, reactions such as headache,
dizziness, etc., may follOw the enema.
Method.-Wbile the lower rectum may bewashed
out·while in a sitting posture, the posture used for
the high colonic is of great importance. The water
should always fiow downward- or it cannot get by
the kinks caused by the accumulations or the sag-
ging organs. First wash out the rectmn and then
' I
take a
Knee-chest Position.-Get down on your knees
on a rug, keeping the hips high and touching the
s:ug with ybur left shoulder and side of face, and
leaving your right hand free to manipulate the tube.
If too weak for this, lie on the left side or on the
back with the hips considerably elevated.
Preparation.-T&en prepare 2 to 3 quarts of
water as hot (105° to 106°) as the hand can remain
in comfortably, tO which a ~poonful· «?f soda has
been added. The water rapidly ptits ·the poiSOns .in-
solution and unless the soda is used they may be
absorbed sufficiently to cause headache; dizzin~ or
· other unpleasant symptoms. The driniing before-
hand and the soda prevent thiS. ·
CONSTIPATION 31
lnjection.-Empty the rectum by injecting about
a pint and letting it out. Then inject slowly as much
as you can hold comfo~ly without a spasm of
ejection, then massage the bowels upward on the
left side, then let in more water and massage across
the stomach and down on the right side until you
can feel the water reach down to the appendix. If
a spasm of expulsion occurs, as soon as you feel it
coming ~, shut off the water and hold it in tight
until the spasm passes away without ejecting any
water. Then tum on the water again until you
have taken as much as can be absorbed without
pain.
Expulsion.-The expulsion will come in mild
spasms or waves, but it may take fifteen or twenty
minutes for the water that was way over to the
appendix to come down, so have patience and wait
without straining.1
When you are sure·the last has
come away, then inject another qwqt of cool water
(65° to 70°) to tone up the muscles of the bowel
so they will learn to work normally without depend-·
ing upon the enema or colonic for natural evacuation.
Frequency.-Take this high colonic every night,
for a week or ten days until your toxic symptoms dis-
'appear and you are sure all the old accumulations
have been softened up and eliminated. After that dO\
not miss one at least once or twicea week for the restl
of your life. You will notice a distinct improve-
1 Walking aboUt will belp bring on the apulsion.
32 HEALTH HINTS
ment in your mental and emotional reactions, as
well as in your physical condition, as soon as yqu
begin.
The Purge.-since all acute and chronic dis-
orders have as their background and basic cause-
- when not mechanical or due to deformity-a long-
continued accumulation of acids and toxins, the cells
of all the tissues of the body are loaded with those
negative and debilitating substances. "The object
of the purge is not merely tb move the bowels and
get rid of the solid wastes, but to wash from the
body its acid-laden fluids: serum from the blood,
lymph from the tissues, and accumulated toxines
from the intestines. The thirst· re5ulting from
this dehydration will make the free use of fruit
juices very gratifying.2
Thus an alkaline or base-
forming source of supply is Jormed to replenish its
deficient stores; and the condition of the body im-
mediately is one of lowered acidity, or rather a
heightened alkalinity-hence the feeling of relief
that usually follows this rather drastic purging."•
Dose.-On arising take three Seidlitz powders
20 minutes apart the first day, two the second day
and one the third day. Fast from everytliing but
fruit juices-unsweetened orange, lemon or grape-
fruit, or alternated with grape or pineapple juice if
desired-during the purge. Take an enema.nightly.
sWhite undergoing a purge or when fasting, do not swallow
Uf saliva, as it carries off many poisons.
A Nftll Hltlllh Ert~, Hay; 142-3. - .
CONSTIPATION 33
Crisis.-This stirs up so much of the stored-up
acid and toxines-that reactionary symptoms called
a "crisis" may be experienced while they are being
eliminated in such great quantities. This may in-
clude headache, dizziness, nausea, even skin eruptions
and symptoms of the major diseases you have had
even years ago a trace of which has been left in
your system. So be faithful in keeping up the three
day purge until completed.
Return to Diet.-The return to normal diet
should be gradual. Keep on with nothing but fruit
.juices until hunger'retums1 as it will when the detoxi-
cation is suffi~ently complete, even if you eat no
solid food for a weekor two.
The Hay plan is as follows: The first two days
afterward eat only broth,1
salad with dressing and
a fruit for dessert. For the next three days use broth,
salad, one cooked vegetable, and a fruit dessert. For
the main meal for the next week1 broth, salad, two
cooked vegetables, fruit dessert. Thenext two weeks1
broth, two cooked vegetables, bacon if desired, fruit
dessert. Then you may have the first starch meal
of broth, vegetable salad, two cooked vegetables,
whole baked potato and a sweet dessert. (No acid
in dressing or dessert, as this is a starch meal.)
After this you can return to full diet as below of
broth or soup, salad (fruit or vegetables), two
cooked vegetables, meat, fish, eggs, or any other
1 The word broth always refers to vegetable broth.
34 HEALTH HINTS
protein, fruit or acid dessert. After the first two
days you may have milk (sweet, buttermilk or ~
ber) with your fruit juice f9r breakfast.
FuUDiet.-After returning to full diet, plan four
protein and three starch meals per week, selecting
foods that will give you 80% alkaline forming food .
and 20% or less acid-forming, the proportion re-
quired to keep your body in health.a
As the skin is also eliminating freely during the
purge, at least a sponge bath should be taken daily
or oftener. A one day purge and fast should be
taken at least once a month.
Habit Forming.-.,Patients are sometimes cau-
tioned by medical doctors to avoid enemas lest a
habit be formed. But if it is a habit, it is a cle8nly
one and conducive to health ·and normality. People
have used the enema daily for,more than fifty years,-
, and it has kept them young, active and free from
disease."• Constipation, also an over-full bladder,
stimulate excessive sex desires by their congestion
of the surrounding pelvic region.
OutgrOwing Its Use.-With proper food conmi-
nations, fluids and exercise, when once regUlated,
there will be no constipation, hence no need for the
enema, only the weekly high colonic.
Eyamina~-If the measures recommended
herein do not relieve the condition, examination
• See page i09. -
• Hqw to Live M~, April J936, 18.
CONSTIPATION 35
should be made for strictures, adhesions, kinks,
chronic contractions, foreign bodies or tumors which
may be mechanically obstructing the bowels.
Mosquito Bites.-Mosquito, flea bites and even
bee and nettle stings, also poison ivy, cause little
swelling, itching or inconvenience if_you are not acid ·
or toxic.
Odors.-To neutralize odors in the bathroom or
elsewhere, roll up a sheet of toilet or ot1!.er paper
into a tight taper and light it. As it bums wave
it slowly through the air in all parts of the room
and the odors will be neutralized. Drop the end of
the taper into the toilet before it bums your fingers.
The Use of Salt:s.-5ince acidosis and toxemia
are present to some extent in aU diseased conditions,
their elimination is the first step toward cure. There-
fore, in practically aU cases-except appendicitis,
· stomach or intestinal ulcers, cancer, etc.-the saline
purge is of primary importance and should be the
first thing to start. FoUow the directions given on
pages 32 and 33 exactly and persistently.
Gas-fonnalion.-Do not be diseo11raged if gas-
formation continues for some time while the di-
gestive system is being re-educated. If it persists,
try chopping the· vegetables very fine or making a
puree of them, so as to decrease the irritation of too
coarse particles.
CHAPTER IV
ACUTE DISEASES
Colds.-Dr. Hay tells us that: "Colds are not
caught. They are a.cctJ;~Dulated with the feet under
the table, and in· no other way." 1
Colds, sinusitis,
tonsillitis, fevers and diseases of the respiratory tract
follow overeating and toxic absorption from the
bowels. Toxines impair the nourisbinent of all
tissues, devitalizingespeciallythemucous membranes
through which they are excr~ and thus allowing
bacteria to invade the tissues ~d the system.
Acute Diseases.-At the first .sign of "lassitude,
headache, ·sore throat, cold, nmning nose, cough,
fever, stomach or bowel trouble, stop eating and
begin a purge. The old adage, ..'If yOU feed a cold,
you'll have a fever to starve," is a well known fact.
The main idea is to stop food and eliminate in every
way, through bowels, kidneys and skin. Immedi-
ately take a generous dose of the purge, then take
a high enema n~ery three hours while awake the
first day, even if, and esperially if, the patient is in
I TAl Nftll HIGIIA Bru. Hay. 148.
36
ACUtE DISEASES 37
a coma. Repeat the enema night and morning each
day afterward in addition to the purge.
Citrus Flush.-Add a rounded teaspoonful of
soda to the juice of a whole lemon. After the foam-
ing has subsided, add·the mixture to two glasses of
hot water. Immediately sip it as ~pidly as you can
drink it comfortably until the entire amount is con-
sumed and a good sweat is started. Hold the idea
that the liquid is going right into the blood stream, .
th!JS thinning it and making it more capable of dis-
solving and flushing out the impurities through the
skin, kidneys and bowels, while the lemon juice will
help to neutralize the acids and toxines. Then drink
a glass of water, or fruit juice if desired, every
hour while awake to keep up the flushing process.
Hot Pack.-lf the attack starts with a toxic chill,
that is not relieved by a hot enema, immediately
after the enema take a hot bath containing four
cupfuls of Epsom Salts. Or instead, take a hot wet
pack, as follows: Fold a sheet to the width that will
reach from the armpits to the hips. Wring it out
in water as hot as the hands can be held in, and
wrap it around the body. Wrap around this a dry
sheet folded wide enough to overlap the wet sheet.
Wrap up in a blanket and allow it to remain on from
two to eight hours or until sweating has ceaSed. Then
remove and sponge with tepid water. Let the
patient have no food, only water or fruit juices,
38 HEALTH HINTS
until returning hunger calls for food, even if the
fast Jasts a week or lfllo. Begin feeding as directed
after the purge on page 33.
Infantile Paralysis.-Attacks of fiu or of infan-.
tile paralysis treated in this way and without medica-
tion will seldom have any or at teastFYtemporary
paralysis.
Appendicitis.-Attacks of appendicitis should
NOT be given a purge or anything at all by mouth,
not ev~ wafer. Put an ice bag over the appendix
and· take a high enema every taJo hours. Usually
unloading the bowel relieves the pain and causes the
temperature to drop within a half hour, and the
acuteattack is over withintwo hours. Most patients
are ·up and often at work the~next day. Dr. Hay
has treated over five hundred cases this way without
a .ringle death, while the death rate from operation
is seldom less than 30% to 40%.
Ruptured.-Even when the appendix is ruptured,
the inBammatory adhesions thrown out by the bowel
will wall in the pus and keep it from causing a
general peritonitis until the mass -ruptures into the
bowel and is washed out by the daily enema. Of
course, this is heresy from a surgical standpoint,
but the proof of its soundness is the results. What
surgeon can match Dr. Hay's record of over ~ve
hundred cases and thirly tv/JI'Ured appendices with-
out a .ringle.deathf AcUte attacks of other disease;&
ACUTE DISEASES 39
yield corresponding results~ if the above mentioned
procedure is faithfully followed, recovery taking
place even before the trouble is sufficiently estab-
liShed to be diagnosed.
Operations.-"To lose the tonsils or appendix is
to place the body under a,permanent_handicap_~t ,
will interfere with function iri. some or many ways
so long as you live. .
"Qlnstipation iollows the removal.of ~JL~
as- effeCt follows cause; alsO the absence of tonsils
opens the way for all sorts of infection later on." •
Abscesses.-"Intemal abscesses, infl:uDmations,
infiltrations, adhesions, have, disappeared with mo-
nOtonous regularity when the whole man was sub-
jected to radical detoxication and dietary correction-
No case of duodenal ulcer has failed to entirely
recover.
"Pneumonia, ery5ipelas, typhoid fever, influenza,
acute arthritis, Q>litis, hay fever, all subside when
the body is fairly detoxicated and the diet so cor-
rected as to stop this excessive formation of the
acid-end-products.".
'T1w Nftll Healllt Bra.Ha7, 197. See also pip 54.
a T'M Nftll Reallll Bia. Hq, 198, 144, 142. ,
CII.APTEll V
FOOD IN GENERAL
Intemperance.-Intemperance in eating probably
causes more unnecessary suffering than intemper-
ance in drink. Excessive food overwhelms the 95-
tem with imperfectly oxidized and toxic products.
Faulty diet and improper elimination are prob-
ably the most prolific physiological causes of lack
of health, hence we ~ go iato some detail con-
cerning them.
F9od.-While individual idiosyncracies vary
widely -even bringing over pet tastes or instinctive
aversions and habits from past lives-nevertheless
there are certain mechanical and chemical laws
which must be observed if the complex mixture of
the chemical products which result from digestion
are to be blended compatibly with ea<;h other and
not produce abnormal products whose harmful re-
sults are grouped under the general term of acidosis.
Recent researches and laboratorytests have proved
the possibility of indefinitely prolonging life through
complying· with the laws of life. Therefore, ·there
is no reason for early death (~g accident) ex-
.40
FOOD IN GENERAL ~1
cept through ignorance of and failure to conform-
to the Jaws of hygiene, scientific dietetics and right
~g. -
Human Classes.-Hindu philosophy classifies
human beings into three types, the ignorant (Ta-
masic), the passionate (Rajasic) and the spiritual
(Sattvic). · Th~ignorant, who function largely on
the plane of gross animal existence, are stupid and
ha:ye little po~er of discrimination between that
which is desirable and undesirable. Such tend to
indiscriminate eating without regard to cleanliness
or purity-stale, partly putrid, and unclean foods-
and gluttony, and are subject to all manner of mor-
bid appetites, thoughts and destructive emotions.
The passionate type craves animal foods, and foods
that are p\mgent, bitter, saline, sour, overhot, ice-
cold, spicy, etc. The spiritual (Sattvic) type possess
an innate discrimination in everything pertaining to
their lives, not only thoughts and em~tions, but a1so
foods, naturally tending to choose that which is pure
and healthful and conducive to peace, harmony and
health. But even this class often errs through igno-
rance of the fundamental chemical Jaws which are
presented herewith.-1
Spiritual S~-Those who are consciously
seeking their spiritual unfoldment should choose
largely the Sattvic foods, or combinations of well
sHW. Dillllk1. Sri Sakal, 1.
42 HEALTHIDNTS
chosen Rajasic foods, avoiding the Tamasic as much
as possible. While spiritual unfoldment does not
come from the stomach, but from the heart, never-
theless, what and how you eat does affect your
~ental and emotional states, hence should be wisetj
planned. Thus the craving for particular ~ of
food depends upon th~ stage of evolution of the
individual. But if you have a craving for a special
food, it is well to satisfy that aaving, but subject
to moderation and the laws of chemical compati-
bility.
Chemical Classes.-Chemically, foods are classi-
fiedas acid-forming, base-forming' or neutral. Most
acid fruits and green vegetables are base-forming
after they are digested, hence neutralize the effects
of the acid-forming foods, i.e., starches, cereals,
flour products, etc.-and proteins-meat (except
bacon), fish, egg whites, cheese (except cream
cheese), milk, nuts (except almonds).
Since the body is normally 80% alkaline and only
20% acid, your diet should be S() selected as to be
compased of 80% alkaline, or base-forming foods,
and only 20%. starch and proteins, both of which
form acid after digesting.• On the basis of calories,
only 10 calories out of every 100 should be proteins.
Proteins.-Dr. William H~rd Hay estimates
that we eat ten times as many_proteins as_we !!~·
2 A~fonliing. a See cbart on page 109.
FOOD IN GENERAL :43
I
This excess not only puts extra work on the kidney'S
and liver, .but over stimulates the circulation and
pi-oduces an organic strain so that the "factor of
safety" of these organs may be exceeded and 'their
collapse result..
Proteins also produce. the D;lost irritating debris
which both c;log the system and irritate.the mucous
membrane of the organs of'elimination. A®ther
-source of great acid formation is the use of refined
and bleached white .flour products and,white sugar.
Great acidity comes both from too much of the
wrong type of food and from fiJI"ong combinations.
· Catarrh.-Catarrbal conditions of nose, throat,
sinuses, stom~ intestines, eti, pass through three
stages, (a) congestion or inflammation, (b) mucous
or dripping examon, and (c) dry or crust stages.
But all will disappear when their mucous membranes
are relieved of the irritation of acid end-products
of digestion and auto-toxemia through thorough de-
toxication, fasting and proper diet. Germs of colds
and other infections are always llresent in the mouth
and nasal passages, but they cannot grow if the
vitality of the tissues is not depleted by acidosis and
toxemia or .by destructive mental and emotional
storms.
Old Age.-"The life processes produce poisons as
by-products. of their activity_ We almost·always do
die of poisons I The Only ~ exception is when·we
44 HEALTH HINTS
are killed by physical violence-poiSf?D, therefore,
is the main -factor in causing old age .and death.
How exbemely important it is to reduce our daily
dose of poison and eliminate as thoroughly and
promptly as possible all such pc)isons." 1
Passions Stimulated.-That a high-protein or
meat diet tends to intensify lower animalistic im-
pulses and passions, .while a low-protein, vegetarian
diet tends to reduce them, has been known since the
most ancient times. The Greek Orphists, the Pythag-
oreans, the Manichaeans, the Neo-Platonists, the
Trappist monks and nearly all religious orders
practicing monasticism abstained from foods rich
in proteins-among the ~reans including
beans1-with that end in view. Modern records
show that the ~e.of protein-rich, uric-acid-forming
f~.whi~~~dify tht:blo_<X:l and urine,~~ th~
blC?OCf pressure, and therefore heighten sexual desire·,
through thdr irritating effect upon the mucous
membranes of the genital organs. Spices, pepper,
tobacco, picldes, shellfish and alcohol have a similar
sexually stimulating effect due to their irritation of
the mucous membranes.
~w Protein Diet.-Experiments of the Car-
negie Institute of Washington 6
in 1919 with two
squads of twelve men each'over a period of four
1 HOfll lo Liw. F"uher, 61.
"HUflltJIS VilalU, llflll Bl/irinJty _,. Proltnlgm R'llrittm
.Did. Publication. 280.
FOOD IN GENERAL 45
months showed a lowered blood pressure .in those.!lil
a low-protein diet, while the reduction in or extinc-
tion of their sex: desire and its usual manifestations
in dreams and habits and their mental attitude toward
women was of a striking nature. Even the sex-
appeal of dancing with women was either entirely
abSent or negligible. After the second or tliird day
after the return to uncontrolled rich-protein diet,
the former· sex impulses and experiences returned,
thus showing the specific influence of rich-protein
diet on sex.
Periodic Functions..-..Such diet has a similar
influenceon the periodic functions of women, a low-
protein and simple, non-stimulating diet gFeatly re-
lieving if not removing most of the symptoms.
This women can easily prove for themselves.
Puberty.-The same rule applies to certain bad
habits in young people. During the rapid develop-
ment of the sexual system throughout puberty,
chemical stimulation of the organs can be avoided
and the desire for gratification largely eradicated by
a low-protein diet. "~ally avoid overeating,
and all foods tending towards acidity, toxemia and·
especially towards constipation. So many parents
teach their children the principles of chastity. and
virtue in the nursery and yet unwittingly stimulate
their passions at_ the table." •
'For farther details see DUI tmd S,1, Siegmeister, Sof.
46 HEALTH HINTS
Diversion.-Both constipation and an over-full
bladder cause pressure and congestion of the pelvic
region, and hence stimulation of the sex centers.
Plenty of outdoor exercise, but especially active
,interest in using the creative force in makifi!J lhings
~ith the hands or mind, will divert the attention and
the force from these centers.
Endurance.-The endurance tests conducted by
Prof. Irving Fisher with Yale athletes at the Battle
Creek Sanitarium years ago were all won }>y a wide
margin by the vegetarians. This shows that a high-
Protein diet also decreases endurance and produces
toxines, and helps bring about deposits, while a
low-protein diet increasc:s en~~ce and keeps the
system free fl'OIJl toxines and mineral deposits.
Undesirable Foods.-Among the worst foods
are anything with an offensive or spoiled odor, such
as certain old or "sharp" c;hecses, "high" poultry,
game or odorous fish or shell-fish, also sweetbreads,
J!ver, kidneys and brains. Excessive use of fisb-
~y raw, as in the Hawaiian Islan~ds to
the development of. skin diseases, such as ulcers, ·
rashes, leprosy, etc. This also applies to nations
which cat a great deal of salted, pickled or smoked
fish, such·as the Scandinavians.
Appetite.-The needs of individuals vary. Eat
the kind and quantity of food your appetite craves,~
after a thorough purgmg lias restored your true
FOOD IN GENERAL 47
hunger, but cOfllbine it correctly. Do not '~fill up"
the stomach just from force of habit; and always
stop eating while you are enjoying theffood, and
respect the variation in amount as the animals do,
according to appetite, a little at one meal, none at
another. Especially avoid any food for which you
have an aversion, for your subconscious or animal-
soul knows what is best for you.
- Feeding Children.-Do not compel children to
eat, especiaDy things which they dislike. life-long
aversions may thus be formed. Let their hunger
guide. Do not try to "clean up your plate," nor
force children to do so. Undesired food is far
better left out of your stomach than in. · You are
not "saving it" by eating it, only putting extra work
on the organs of elimination. Eliminate it by not
eating it. To restore los~ appetite, drop out a meal
ortwo. Animals refuse all food whenill. So shotdtl
3'0fL
Fasting.-Do fiDI hesitate to ftJ.rt from all solid
food until your hunger demaruls ~ood, but drink-
plenty of water or, better still, fruit juices mean-
while, even if the fast -last for days and flleeks.
Far better eat too little than- too much. A purge)
and a fast of a week ortwo will cure most functimial
diseases.
~~c;I!!!cs have fasted for a month and never-
again su~ a return of the convulsions. Nephri-
48 HEALTH HINTS
tis, diabetes, skin diseases, asthma, an recover in the
absence of- all food; also all other diseases resulting
from wrong chemistry will readjust themselves
when the body is free to give all its attention to
deaning h~" •
Life-force.-Remember that food is n~t .the
~~ of your life-force. That comes from God-
through your astral body. Food, water and air are
but materials and energy-fuels needed to replace
those used up by the expression of your life and con-
sciousness through the body. Proteins and minerals
replace the tissues used up. As these die and need
replacement at an even rate, whether lYe are active
or sedentary, according to Dr. 'Hay we an need pro-
teins according to our size1 not according to our
activity. Since starch; sugars and fats readily
oxidizeto release quickly available energy, active per-
sons need and can digestmoreof these than sedentary
persons.
Overeating.-Aside from the previously_ men-
tioned mechanical and mental influences, most bodily
ills are butmanifestations orsymptoms of disordered
body chemistry. One important factor is overload-
ing the system by overeating. All the food in~-'
cess of that necessary to replace waste tissue and
supply energy must be thrown off or stored up as
fat. The excess puts excessive work on the organs
• Till Nftll HHlllt Bra, Hay, 169.
FOOD IN GENERAL 49
of elimination and clogs the system ::with unnecessary
weight.
Hunger.-Remember that hunger is satisfied in
the mouth and not in the stomach. The proof of
this is that if you bolt your food you can gorge
your stomach almost to bursting and still feel
hungry. On the other hand, if you chew each
morsel slowly and deliberately until it is so thor-
oughly mixed with sa1ivi that it is a creamy fluid
before it is swallowed h\.voluntarily, your hunger -
will be satisfied long before your stomach is full~
If not especially hungry, skip a meal or two until
you are hungry.
Thirst.-Thirst is also satisfied in tlie mouth.
One glass of fluid slowly sipped and rinsed around
in the mouth and relished, will satisfy your thirst
· better than several glasses just poured .down until
your stomach is full, but leaving ·you still thirsty.
These facts are the basis of the paradoxical Hindu
aphorism: "Drink solids and chew fluids.:'' ·
Enjoy FOod.-While food, and especially
starches, should be chewed to the point of liquid, in-
voluntary swallowing, do not count a certain number
of chews to each morsel and thus make eating a bore-
some task. Definitely and ·consciously enjoy your
food by giving your attention to its appetizing ap-
pearance and its delightful taste. Do this only while
eating and then imt it out of mind,-so that your mind
so HEALTH HINTS
will not be focussed on your stomach, or on food ex-
cept while eating or preparing food. If the food is
worth eating, it should be worth enjoying. Ex-
.press this by quietly smacking your lips and saying
aloud to your hostess, or to yourself if alone: "UmI
How delicious this isI" You thus establish a positive
affinity with the pranic essences of your food by
your realization and appreciation of them. The com-
binations should be not only chemically compatible,
but they should be pleasing and appetizing to look
upon, as well as palatable to the taste.
:Qo Not Hurry.-Therefore, make your eating
and drinking happy functions! Do not allow them
to be hunied or rushed through by either bolting
your foOd or gulping your liquids. Many people
ertoneously feel they have "so much to do," that
they have not time to do it. You can do only one
thing well at a time. Therefore, toie the lime to do
it well. This is most important as regards eating.
If you "haven't time to eat" properly, then do
not eat al all.
_ No Arguments.-Never allow· heated arguments
or expressions of initation, impatience, anger or
even resentment, or any negative emotion, to be
held, much less expressed, during meals. Such
emotions paralyZe the digestive system, even to the
point of actually stopping the chemical activities of
FOOD IN GENERAL 51
the glands which secrete the digestive juices. Strive
to have nothing but happy, CODStructive conversation,
jokes, laughter, etc., at meals.
Giving Tbanks.-5ince all supply comes from
GQd, to eat without giving thanks is thoughtless in-
gratitude. Reoognizing your dependence upon the
Father for food as well as life, tunes you in to His
forces. Giving thanks to Him should bring a thriU
or a glow of satisfaction and happiness, if through
-the sincerity of your thanks you make actual con-
tact with His forces.
An Occult Grace.-I am a creatorI Bythe power
of my spiritualized wiU I consciously gather all the
-forces from this food and use them to manifest
health, strength and harmony in all my bodies.
And we thank the Father for this manifestation of
~ ~teo~ supply. May we use it to- His glorr
m His serv~ce.· · Amen.
Short Thanks.-We thank the Father for this
manifestation of His bounteous supply. May we
use it to His glory iti His service. Amen.
~"Insurance companies have found that
even weak and sick people wiD, if they take good
care·of theinselves, outlive those with robust consti- ·
tutions who abuse themselves. • • • A young man
who a few yearsago was scarcely ableto draghimself
into the sun in Colorado, when be was endeavoring
52 HEALTH HINTS
to rid himself of tuberculosis-not only succeeded by
dint of following substantially all the rules here laid
down, became an athlete and capable of running
twenty-five miles for sheer love of sport." "
Meat Eating-The question of the ethics and
morals of meat eating is an individual one which -
each must deciae for himself according to his stage
of unfoldment and the degree of transmutation of
his atoms. This problem is quite fully dealt with
in. the chapter on "Thou shalt not kill" in our ·The
Voice of Isis and in the chapter on "Transmigra-
tion" in our The Inner Radilznce.
Spiritual Unfoldment.-As we have said before,
you should remember that qirilfuJl unfoldment does
not come from the stomach but from the heart. As
far as meat being a necessary food is concerned,
The Intmuztional Food Commission reports that:
~'No absolute physiological need exists for meat,
since the proteins of meat can be better replaced by
other proteins contained in milk, cheese and eggs,
as well as by proteins of vegetable origin, such as
almonds, pistachios, soy-beans, brazil nuts, pecans
and other nuts." •
· Vegetable Proteins.-"At a recent meeting of
the International Council of Physiologists it was de-
cided that meat was not a physiological necessity.
'It is not thought desirable to fix a minimum meat
"Hllfll'lo Llw, Fuher, 160-L
• Hillll• Diddic1. Sri Sakal, 4.
FOOD IN GENERAL 53
ration, in view of the fact that 110 absolute physio-
logical .eed for meat esists, since the proteins of
meat can be replaced by other proteins of animal
origin, such as those contained in milk, cheese and
eggs, as well as by proteins of vegetable origin.' " •
The vegetable proteins are also rich in iron, hence
are a more valuable source of protein for children
and the anemic than is meat.
Starch Digestion.-5ince the first stage inthe di-
gestion of starch takes place through the action of
the enzyme ptyalin in the alkaline saliva, it is abso-
lutely essmlial that starchy food be thoroughly
chewed for some time--until it is-a thick cream-so
the ptyalinwill-be thoroughly mixed with it and have •
time to act, or the starch will ferment when it comes
in contact with the acid juices of the stomach which
kill the ptyalin and·stop the digestion of the starch.
Not for Babies.-~'Before the teeth are in place,
the concentrated starches and cane sugars are never
thoroughly split. • • • Introducing starches and
sug3rs before the teeth are developed • • o is one of
the most fertile causes of ~e frequent fermenta-
tions, the bilious attacks, the Jack of appetite, the
sour vomiting, the eruptions, the irritability, the bed-
wetting habit, and the general early formation of
acid states o o o by two years of age."10
Teeth.-The use of too much soft foods contain-
• HDfll to Liw, F"uher, 40.
20 Tlw Nlfll HMllll Bra, Hay, 48, 49o
HEALTH HINTS
ing white ftour or white sugar, and their acid rau1ts,
is one· of the greatest causes of tooth decay, also
of ~ acid formation. The lgprots of the
Philippines ruin their naturally fine teeth whenever
theytum from their marse diet to our soft, processed
foods.
Bmsh the teeth thoroughly after every meal, espe-
cially before going to bed, so particles of food will
not decompoSe and produce acid and promote h:acte-
rial growth over night. Brush down and up.
Hard Food&-Use a amsiderable amount of
bard foods, such as hard toast, stale crusts, grape
nuts, nuts and fibrous vegetables -which require much
chewing.· The chewing not O!Jly brings oot the
ftavor and increases the relish, but it also exercises
the jaWs and improves the condition of the teeth and
teet1l sockets, as well as causes a copious ftow of
both saliva and gastric juice.
Chew Chew Club.-Therefore, for your teeth's
and your health's., join the Chew Chew Club/
Pyorrhea.-lt is said that the only animals be-
sides man that have pyorrhea are the domesticated
~g and eat, whose wrong diet is much ·like man's.
In c;xperiments on animals,n those deprived of~
·~ C gave every symptom of J».llOThea, but hOeral
use of citrus juices or frult punch quickly restored
them "to normal. '
u Orliot~WIIIiu* Broaabton, 54.
FOOD IN GENERAL SS
"l Milk.-Raw miJk is one qf the best of foods, but
~'being a prOtein it.is not digested well with starches
· or ·su~, although cream ma~ be used, as it is a
fat. It'should be sipped and chewed. - The tendency
of milk to-· form mucus .can be oven:ome by th~
use of fruit ·juices. ·Fresh, certified raw milk is
recommended, especially for children, as it is alka-
line, whereas~ milk-is acid.
Goat's Mi&-"Little children, before the end of
the second year, need nothing but (mother's) milk
••• the best substitute is goat's milk. If nothing
but pasteurized ~ can be obtained,· then orange
juice should be added to the daily-diet • • • even for
the breast fed infant- Away goes the old familiar
bread and milk of our. fore-fathers." u However,
children ·who are actively exercising, aJso adults at
hard muscular_work, can usually oxidize this ammi- .
nation without difliculty.
Sugar.-Refinedsugar and candy madetherefrom
should be avoided. For sweetening, use brown
sugar, maple sugar or honey, altho~gh rock candy
may be used·betwem· meals. · Sugar should not be
.JJSedintea orcoffee orWithproteins. Dates~ figs and
raisins may be ~ freeiy in -place of candy. They
are very nutritious and satisfy the taste for sweets.
• · Weight Reduction.-Heredity and Karma deter•
·mine the ~of body we incarnate in. This cannot
u 77v N"" 11Glt1t 8,.,., Hay, 49-48..
56 HEALTH HINTS
be greatly changed~ but it can be kept within shapely
proportions by preventing unsightly accumulations of
' excess fat. One student lost two inches at his waist
line in six months by simply omitting bread and
·cereals from breakfast. Women should not strive
for a "boyish figure," but for a well rounded-
womanly figure. Forit is the generous curves which
Nature has given their sex which make their figures
so attractive, not the immature stringiness of school
girls or "pony ballet" girls.
Fat.-Naturally, excess fat comes from excess
food, for most stout personS eat three times as much
food as is necessary. No "reducing diet" is neces-
sary: Eat all that your appetite demands, but cut
o_ut all fat-producing foods. With the cause re-
moved, -results follow automatically. Avoid all "fat
reducers." They contain dangerous drugs, and are
unnecessary if you will follow these directions.
Stop all starches, that is, all white flour products,
bread, crackers, macaroni, etc., all cereals, potatoes,
rice, etc.; if you would reduce.
Stop all sugars, candies and sweet dishes, also all
butter, fats and oils.
Omit breakfast entirely or use only grape fruit,
oranges or pineapple.
Reducing Diet.-nJs leaves plenty to eat. Use
especi~y all raw, live vegetable salads, also all
FOOD IN GENERAL 57
cooked vegetables except legumes-driedpeas, beans,
lentils-and peanuts. Use all fresh fruits except ba-
nanas. Ask for canned fruits fllithotd s,n~p. On
~ diet you will have plenty to eat and you can -
lose a pound or more a day until you get down to
the normal weight for your height.
When down to normal you may add a glass of
milk, buttermilk or clabber, or an egg yolk beaten
up in milk, to your fruit breakfast. You may then
also add a moderate amount of meat or fish, if de-
sired, to your ~ meal, so long as you keep to the
compatible combinations.
One Kind.-Do not eat more than one concen-
trated starch or one protein at a meal. To do so
would overbalance the proper proportion you had
planned.
Salt.-:-The-less salt used the better. Some au-
thorities report experiments proving it to be a direct
~ of high blood pressure.u And pepper and
hot condiments should be avoided in general, al-
thOugh the Hindus16
advocate the use of mild sweet
spices to flavor many dishes and give variety. The
useof celery or vegetable salt is recommended. Use
lemon in place of vinegar.
58 HEALTH HINTS
. Almnimun -The older type, and the cheap
modem type of aluminum ware should not be used
for cooking, as some of the metal is dissolved and
is absorbed by the food. This gradually accumu-
lates in the body and causes many gastric and nerv-
ous symptoms whose origin is obscure unless it is
recognized · as aluminum poisoning. The high
priced modem ware is made of an alwninum alloy
which the makers claim does not give aluminwn
poisoning. But you can still use·your old aluminum
ware if you cook everytbing.in patapar paper.
· Up to You.-No one can eat your food for you,
nor digest it, nor- assimilate it, nor excrete its wastes.
So the cleansing and rebuilctmg of your body is u/J
to you. And since the matter is under your own
amtrol~ you have no one to blame but yourself if
.you are sick.
Putrefaction of Meat.-Some vegetarians claim ·
that meat putrefies in the stomach. Physiologically
this is not possible, as the acid and pepsin of the
gastric juice digest the meat so quickly that even if
putrefying bacteria werepresent-which is extremely
~ey 1f()Uld havenot time in which to bring
about putrefaction. The symptoms such persons
quote as evidence of putrefaction-belchingoffensive
gas etc.-are not those of putrefaction, but o_f_ the
fermentation.produced when starches or sugars -are
eaten with meat.
CBAPTEil VI
COMPATIBILITY OF FOODS
Heredity.-Many persons totally disregard the
need for proper "food mmbinations. -They combine
anything that appeals to their taste or appeti~ and
yet seem healthy and vigorous. They therefore am-
~ that their way of eating must be mm:ct or
they would not feel so well.
This is usually due to the fact that ~ have in-
herited a vigorous constitution. ADd if they are
doing bard manual work or taking vigorous outdoor
exercise-their muscular work wiU oxidize ahnost any
food. Also the body is so adaptable that it will
stand years of abuse and make the best of it.
Early B~own.-But sooner or later after ·
middle life they have severe illnesses or a "nervous
brea\cdown" and are .suddn&ly compelled to "take life
easy." The organs which have been so long abused
by wrong diet and overwork reach their limit of
endurance and rebel. This rebdlion may localize as
indigestion, diabetes; kidney or heart trouble, high
blood pressure, apoplexy, etc. But these are not
c:onditious whieh have suddenly attacked them. , ·
59
60 HEALTH HINTS
. They are but the focal symptoms and end-results of
years of abuse.
Incompatibilities.-The general rule Jaid ·down
byover thirty years of specific experience and experi-
mentation by Dr. William Howard Hay, and con-
c:urred in by many other food specialists who follow
along the general line of the school of dietetics
founded by him, is that concentrated starch~ should
not be eaten at the same meal with either proteins or
acid fruits.
Ptyatin.-As we said UDder Starch Digestion,1
the
· action of the enzyme ptyalin found in the aUcaline
._saliva begins the digestion of starch into primary
sugars, the dextrins and maltose. As this enzyme
must be thoroughly incorporated into the starch,
chewing the food to a creamy consistency is essen-
tial, for th~~~-~~Y--i!l-~e !Q!_~n.
Although the gastric juice of the stomach is nor-
mally slightly acid, when starch is being eaten it
reflexly inhibits the acid secretion to a minimum,
hence the digestion of the starch can continue for
some time in the stomach.
Acid Stimplated.-But when proteins are eaten,
they reflexly slimulate the secretion of the acid to a
maximum. This immediately stops the further di-
gestion of the starch, which if it has not been
thoroughly chewed and inSalivated, Hes in the
I Pap 5l,
COMPATIBILITY OF FOODS 61
st~ and ferments. This produces gas, heart-
~um, water-brash, excessive acid stomacli ruur~c
accumulations. It is this ex:Cess of acid of fmnen.-
tation and decompositio"'~ not the normal acid of
secretion, which causes acidosis.
Acidosis.-AU the body fluids save four-gastric
juice, urine, sweat, vaginal-are alkaline, hence the
necessity for 80~ alkaline forming food. The
amount of acidity is measured by comparing it with
the strength of hydrogen ions in water. With water
havinga formula ofpH 7, and normal bloodalkalinity
represented by pH 7.3 to 7.5 indicating exceitent
health, a pH of over 7.5 is called hyper-alkalinity or
alkalosis. Unless excessive, this indicates high func-
tional activity and ample alkaiine reserve with which
to C:OJDbat excessive acidity. A pH of less than 7.3
is called hyper-acidity or acidosis~ and indicates low
functional activity.
Symptoms.-A ti~ feeling, listlessness on
awakiitg, an over-full puffed feeling after meals!
Drowsiness, tiring easily, catching cold easily, short-
ness 9f breath, skin eruptions, mild eye troubles,
pyorrhea, brittle or falling hair, etc. Counteracted
by a purge, followed by citrus fruits or fruit punch.
A1ka1inity.-The body fluids are kept alka1ine by
( 1) buffer salts-carbonates and phosphates-which
resist chemical changes from the normal; by (2)
respiration or elimination of carbonic acid gas. Its
62 HEALTH HINTS
concentration in the blood regulates the depth of the
breathing by affecting the respiratory center in the
brain. When the buffer salts and the respiratory
system are overtaxed by acid, the body rids itself of
the excess acid by (3) excretion through bowels,
skin, and chiefly ~h the kidneys. It is this
continJJal irritation by the acids and toxines that is
largely responsible for kidney breakdown (nephri-
tis). A11 of the above are markedly controlled by
(4) diet of compati'hle foods, largely fruits andvege-
tables.
Soda.-While alkaline Cirugs temporarily raise the
alkaline reserve, they tend to accumulate in the tis-
sues and are difficult to eliminate, and upset normal
add-aJbline balance. Theonly natural way to build
up- a normal alkaline reserve is through a diet in
which alkaline-forming foods predominateover add-
forming foods in a ratio of 80 to 20.
Protein•--Proteins demand an acid medium and
pepsin for their digestion, hence are digested in the
stomach; ~here those very conditions prevent the
digesqon of starches.
Rules --The rules generally agreed upon by the
·new Compatibility School of dietetics are as follows:__
1. Do not combine protei,_(meats, fish, egg
whites, milk, cheese and nuts) with concentrated
starches-(breakfast foods, rice, potatoes, ripe dried
beans or peas, macaroni, spaghetti, noodles, bread,
COMPATIBILITY OF FOODS 63
crackers, cake, pastry or other white flour products).
Any of the non-starch vegetables may be combined
with the proteins.
. 2. Do not combine twoteins with sweets, except
maple sugar and honey, unheated preferred. Tu-
pola honey is recommended for its high pen:entage
of levulose or predigested sugar.
3. Do not combine starches with acid fruits.
4. Starches may be combined with any vegetabl~
and with sweets. '
S. Proteins combine with aU vegetables and fruits
and fruit juices, except the concentrated starches.
· :You can use much the same foods you 1JSUally do
when in the right combination.
All vegetables contain some starch, but they are
classed ad starches--that is. amcentra.te4 starcbes-
()D]y_when they contain 40, or more of starch.
Doctors Untrained.-5ome doctors scoff at this
classification, but doctors as a class are abysmally
ignorant as to diet, more so than the average good
cook, uflle.s.r they have made a special study of it.
And even then they lack a correc:t understanding un-
less they have studied it DOt merely from the stand-
point of calories and vitamins, but from the
standpoint of the chnnical nul-fWodud.r of dig~
i• .combifUJiimJ. The reason for this ignorance is
that most mediCal schools give an average of only
six hours' instruction on diet d~ four ~
-
64 HEALTH HINTS
study I (About as much as they give to nursing.)
· And most of that miserly six hours is given
over to statistics as to calories, vitamins, etc. and
how to prepare junket, koomiss and other •'deli-
cacies" to ••tempt the appetite" of the patient who
usually should be fastingI
Ezperience.-OnthecontraryDr. Hay, and those
who follow the general reforms introduced by him,
by repeated chemical analysis of stomach contents at
various stages, and by years of clinical experience in
curing thousands of chronic cases-indigestion, ca-
. tarrh, rheumatism, arthritiS; kidney, bladder, liver,
sinus trouble, asthma, hay fever, gall bladder, skin
diseases, etc.,-many of whom had been months in
Jiospitals and sanitariums and had been given up as
hopeless, has dejmitely prwetl that the above rules
are not mere theory or fad but are laa!s. For those
.who follow them are cured.
Eating Habits.-The principal change this diet
will make in your eating habits is that if you have a
cereal and toast or bread for breakfast, you should
not have acid fruit juices, meat or qg whites or else
sum juices should be taken an hour before break-
fast. Egg yolks and bacon are classed as fats and
can be used with cereals or starches. If you do not
have any starch at breakfast, then the citrus fruits
may be taken with it. Orange and milk make an
ideal breakfast.
COMPATIBILITY OF FOODS 65
For lunch and dinner you win soon get used to
eliminating bread, potatoes, ri~ noodles, etc. when
meat, fish or other proteins are used. But when
plenty of other vegetables are used with proteins, you
will soon becomeaccustomed tothe absence of starch.
If you wish one starch meal a .day, using potatoes,
rice, macaroni, etc., have all you want at a meal,
when proteins and acid fruits are not used. But
do not use more than one concentrated starch in the
meal. You do not need to skimp your meals, espe-
cially when changing to the new diet, as there is a
great variety of foods to use.1
It is the proper selec-
tion and combination that is important.
Processed Foods.-It is best to avoid most proc-
essed and devitaHzed foods, such as prepared break-
fast foods, etc. unless specially irradiated with
ultra-violet rays. Citrus fruits should be eaten at
least an hourbefore a cereal or starch meal.
Bran.-Foods with more than the natural amount
of. bran found in grains should be avoided. Bran ·
should not be eaten alone. Its action is due to its
irritation of the intestines, and its continued use
often c:auses grave bowel troubles, even becoming
emiJc:dded in its walls and having to be scraped out.
Its sharp edges are said even to amputate the minute
villi of the intestine, which absorb the food.
' Use freely of fresh ftldables and fruits in their
and omit olcl winkr potatoes and roots, dried beans~
fruits. old mrts~ when the fresh ones are in the market.
CHAPTER VII
COOKING
Raw Foods.-As a general rule, eat as much live,
raw foods as possible. Raw foods are called "live
foods" because they have not been killed nor their
prana altered by cooking. They still retain much
of their living~ and magnetism unless they are
stale. They digest more easily than when cooked,
andthey pass through the system more rapidly, hence
there is little time for fermentation or dec:omposi·
tion, therefore no formation of toxic poisons.
. In general, do not 'COOk any food which Nature
has made palatable when raw. This includes salads,
fruits, nuts, raisins, figs, dates and other dried fruits,
berries, celery, carrots, beets, cabbage, cucumbers,
tomatoes, radishes, grapes, .onions, green peppers,
cauliflower, asparagus etc. It also includes ·butter,
cheese, milk, cream, sour milk, buttermilk, honey,
oliveand other vegetable oils. AU raw foods should
be well washed to remove as far as possible the
poisons with,which they JIU9' ~ been sprayed.
Cooking.-Baking, broiling or steaming are the
best methods of cooking.
Cooking destroys some vitamins,1
and bo~ also
1 See.ad-:.;.... papi for our booklet 011 Yiltlmiu•
....._ . 66 '
COOKING 61
dissolves out many essential minerals which are
usually poured down the. sink. A teaspoonful of
powdeied kelp a day is recommeiuied by some to re-
place ~any.of the lost~t3mins and minerals. 1
Most starchy foods, · cereals .and unripe fruit
should be thoroughly cooked before eating.
Vegetables.-Most vegetables should be cooked
(steamed) with little or no water. Where water is
used, it dissolves out of the vegetables many vita-
mins and minerals. If it cannot aU be cooked down
and absorbed by the vegetables, it should be saved
to use in gravy or as a juice-drink with or between
meals. .
Patapar Paper.-Vegetables are best cooked by
washing without paring, and tied up in "patapar
paper'' ~ and placed in a small amount of boiling
water. This. preserves aU their flavors, juices, vita-
mins and minerals. ·And there is no comparison in
their flavor.· Once eaten cooked in patapar paper,
you will never cook them any other way. The paper·
can be obtained,at any ten-cent store, and can be
washed and used again and again.
·Vitamins.-rbere is little need to go into.the
complicated subject of specific Vitamins and the ..
twelyt;rmine¢,.!$!d~ ~eec:led by~body. .If the wide
range of dtet, recommend'ed herein, especially the
· raw foods, is fOllowed, you will obtain all the vita-
minS and minerals in generous amounts.
1 In England ca11c:d "eropr paper" iostead of "Patapar."
68 HEALTH HINTS
Roast.-Use two long spoons for turning a roast.
A fork pierces the surface and allows the juices to
escape.
Tins.-lf you use muffin or other tins for baking
tomatoes, apples, stuffed peppers, onions, etc.,_ they
will keep their shape better.
Potaaiam.-Potassiam- is of especial im~ in neutral-
,izing acids, preventing and el~~ ca~ d~its. which
:are a feature of the degenerative diseases; m eliminating ab-
nonnal growths, ul~ gouty and old-age
symptoms, and in toning up the skin. As it is easily eliminated
from the bodyr many-~ sutler to some degree from
potassium ddiaeucy. While all -salad greens and vegetables
grown above the ground are generally rich in potassium, in
.addition to their use we recommend as especially unportant the
frequent use of potassium broth at lqst two or three times a
week. A quantit:r em be made once or twice a week and kept
.in a closed jar ~ the refrigerator ready for use as. needed.
·PotaSsium broth is made as follows:
Into two quarts water put:
1 lb. Celery (3 cups when finely shredded or cut)
1 lb. Carrots .. •• •• .. •• .. ..
~ lb. Spinach (1 cup when " .. " "
1 oz. Parsley (~ cup when ,. " ,. "
Vegetable salt to taste (about one level tablespoon for this
~) .
The ftgdables ~,. be put through a food chouPer or finely
.cat or shredded. When shredded or cut ftgdabfes are used,
-the broth will have a very delicate flavor and will be clearer
·in color. There is no objection, however, to the fine particles
of vegetable matter which will be found remaining in the broth
after it has been strained when ground vegetables are used in
the preparation.
The Cooking time is most imjJOrtaDt in the preparation of this
broth. The ~bles should ~·put in cold water and ~t
to a boil slowly-in about twenty minutes. After the boiling
. point is reached, the broth should be allowed to simmer for
-from five to ten minutes. Five minutes is sufticient if the
vegetables have been srouocL Eight to ten minutes if cut or
shrcdcfed.
CBAPTEil VIII
VARIOUS SUGGESTIONS
Eyes.-According to the elaborate experiments of
Dr: W. H. Bates 1
and the school who follow him,
nearly all eye defectS are due to llllconscious nervous
strain which affects the muscles of accommodation
and so disturbs the lens of the eye. This apPlies
to squints, divergent vision and crossed eyes, as well
as to accommodation. Since perfect darkness re-
laxes the tension, his remedy, whiCh he calls "palm-
ing," is to place the crossedpalms of the bands gently
over the eyes in such a way as to exclude all light,
but without touching the eyeballs. Since we see or
in~ our vision with our minds and not with
the ~' thought and memory-play an important
part in correcting our vision._ '
Palm~ng.-With your palms over the eyes, think
of the blackest things you know of. Remember how
intensely black an automobile is or black cloth, ~
cially black velvet, and mentally shift from one
black object to another. Pin a very black advertise-
1 For details see Tlw Clft ofl•lft16d Sigld ~ lretlltMal
fllillunll tfltw61•.Bates. .
69
70 HEALTH HINTS
menton the wall a few feet away and see how much
of the finer print you can read without strain. Then
try '~"palming" and '~thinking black" a minute or two
and then see how much better you can read the finer
print. Then look away at some distant object, but
without strain. This also relaxes the eyes. These
.are very simple exercises, but are of the utmost im-
portance, and if persisted in will cure almost all eye
defects.
Blinlring.-Blinking the eyes gently but rapidly,
also swinging the eyes from side to side and dl-
agonally upward and downward, also closing the
eyes tightly and opening them widely, to_nes and
strengthens all the muscles of the eyes. But palming
and "thinking black'' and testing your eyes with an.
advertisement or chart is the most. important factor.
Practice reading without glasses for a few min-
utes. Do the best you can without strain. ~en
the letters blur, rest the eyes by palming, and ~
Diany times during the day. Palm and blink and
focus on distant objects, especially ·green fields or
trees, many times dunng the day. .
Practice .pl~ing and blinking during moving
pictures or while reading· on moving trains.
B~ Acid.-If the eyes are inflamed, rinse them
in a solution of boric acid.
Do not read in a waning light or in the bright
sunlight, or with lamplight directly ~ front of you.
VARlOUS SUGGESTIONS 71
Have the light over your shoulder or at least at the
side, at the left if writing.
Detoxication and correct diet will also help the
. . '.
eyes.
Sleep.-Sleep is Nature's;greatest restorative, for
during sound sleep we withdraw completely from the
physiCal body and ascend into the higher realms
where our astral body becomes more· or less com-
pletely recharged ·with the pranic life-force. This
we bringback with us to n:cbargeour physical body.
During sleep is when we assimilate most of our
food, grow and make repairs. Some who are
psychic sometimes return quite tired or depleted. •
This is because they have indulged in too. strenuous_
activities in the astral world. Malee up your mind
that, as a rule, you go to sleep to rest and recuperate,
and not to work in the astral; your real work and
·lessons·are here on the physical plane. That is why
~incarnated here. ~ive or six hours sleep should
be enough when properly detoxicated, although some
mental workerS need-seven or eight.
lnsonuJia...--Insomnia is usually due to acid fer-
mentation in the small intestine. The treatment is
to coUnteract ·that acldity-·as quickly as possibl~' ·
Therefore, if nervous,· wakeful and sleepless, take
a full glass of grapefruit juioe.1
Also take a high
enema with lukewarm water only, hot water being
too stimUlating. • .
1
Just before soing to bed.
72 HEALTH HINTS
Also take the Calming or the Cleansing Breath.
Also use the Prayer to the Divine Indweller, or to the
loving I Am Presence, and let Him bear all your
burdens and anxieties. Then drop ofi to sleep in
calm confidence in His love. . ·
Protective Invocation.-1£ disturbed by astral
forces or entities, take the drinkand enema first, then
use the above mentioned prayer or our Protecting
lm~ocation and rely upon the protection of the
blazing white Christ-light with which it surrounds
you. If these psychic disturbances occur frequently,
it sometimes helps to crush some gum camphor and
doves together and keep them in a dosed jar during
the day, but open it in your bedroom during the
·night. Undeveloped entities do not like these odors..
Some sensitive persons sleep better with the ltead
toward the North, but this is not important. ·
AlcohoL-As we have. explained elsewhere,• al-
cohol and narcotics disintegrate the astral sheaths
which protect your psychic cen~ from invasion by
astral forces whichmay leadto obsession. Hence the
frequent use of alcoholic beverages should be posi-
tively refused by those who seriously desire spiritual
advancement and mastery. .
"Special classes of workmen have been tested as
to their efficiency under liquor in small amounts and
withOut it.entirely, and it was ifiWI'iabl:y found that
•n. Yoiuo/IAI,~ 100.
VARIOUS SUGGESTIONS 73
the liquor was a handicap, altho invariably the work-
men thought they could work harder by its aid. Al-
cohol~umbs tlle sense of fatigue and so deceives the
user. •· • • People who indulge in alcohol show less
resistance to infectious diseases than abstemious in-
dividuals." •
Tobacco.-"Tobacco although classed as a nar-
cotic does not contain the elements so destructive
to the psychic centers, in fact, when not used to ex-
cess, is rather soothing. It does, however, inju-
riously affect the heart and nervous system. From
an occult standpoint one of the- greatest objeCtions
to its use is its tendency to form a habit. It goes
without saying that the aspirant for the spiritual
·life must be master of all conditions and functions
and. a slave to none." 6
, "Prof. Pack, of the Uni-
versity of Utah, finds that tobac:arusing athletes are·
distinctly inferior to those who abstain. • • • There
is also much experimental eviden~ to show that to-
bacco induces arterial changes." • Tobacco is
especially harmful to women because of their more
sensitive·nervous system. Their nervous and excit-
able conditions usually have a basis of acidosis and
toxemia, hence should be soothed by detoxication
instead of by tobacco.
Vaccination.-"Those nations most thoroughly
· aHtn~~ ID Uw .Ji"isher, 81, 82.
• Tlte Votc• ";/Iris, Curtiss, 101.
74 HEALTH HINTS
vaccinated, as the Philippine Islands, Japan and
Italy, have today the highest incidence and highest
fiJOftality from smallpox of all nations, while thOse
nations that do not observe the rite of vaccination
are lowest in both morbidity and mortality. If vac-
cination prevents smallpox, then those nations e:n-
fon:ing.vaccination should be free from the plague.
• • • Yet the opposite is true, as anyone can prove
by consulting the vital statisti~ of every civilized
country keeping health records." •
Serums.-Aside from tQeir uncertainty and often
disastrous after effects, we should not wilfully pol-
lute our blood stream with the blood or serum- from
the animal_ kingdom, still less with either disease
. germs themselyes or their products. With detoXi-
cation and proper diet their uncertain aid will not
be needed. ·
Surgery.-5urgery is seldom justified in diseased
conditions, as in most cases it does fiDt remove the
cause of the trouble, only the result, namely, the
diseased part or organ. "Dr. Charles Mayo (of the
great Mayo surgical clinic) said afew years ago'
that nine-tenths of_the .internal surgical opetatians
o(~y never should have been done ••• it is the
writer's firm conviction that ~-nine percent of
all internal operations performed today never should
•n. Nlfii-Ballt En. Bq, 175.
VARIOUS SUGGESTIONS 75
have been done." • Dr. John B. Dever, Professor
of Surgery at the University of PenDsylvania, stated
some years ago that the records of his thousands of
operations showed that only about 13% w~ of any
permanent benefit.
. ·ToDSils.-"No tonsU is ever so bopelessly dis-
eased as to deserve removal, and one of the largest
and best equipped pathological laboratories in this
cotintry reports that in one thousand tor&.rils re-
mtnJed • • • examination showed that but 7% were
diseased." 7
.
Specialists.-Specialists are trained to deal with
certain particular organs or conditions. They spend
much time on diagnosis and their diagnosis may be
wonderful, but their treatment is often orily paUia-
.tive. It is not the organ or part that needs treatment,
but the underlying bodily conditions (chemistry)
which permit the·symptoms to appear in a particular
part. .
Doctors.-From the above -remarks, it might
sc:em that we wereopposed to doctors or belittle their
services. Far from it. We recognize that thousands
of noble men are devoting their whole lives to reliev-
ing suffering humanity. wmit we wish to anpha-
size is that most of their services would not be
needed if the basic factors-acidosis, toxemia, de-
76 HEALTH HI~S
structive thoughts and emotiOns-which either cause
most diseases or permitthem to manifest, were elimi-
nated. To teach you how to eliminate these causes
is the object of this volume.
, Radionics.-One of the most important steps in
modem medical practice is the development of the
use of high frequency radio waves in the treatment
,of diseased conditions, especially of cancer. The in-
struments using such radio tubes are able to diag-
nose the condition by its vibratory wave-length, and
to charge the patient's bQdy with the wave-length
which will neutralize the diseased condition and
cause complete recovery in an amazingly short time.
But to remain relieved or cured, the 'patient must,
of course, change his habits of life# as herein out-
lined, whicli caused the condition.
Wherever such radionic instruments can be found
in the hands of competent practitioners, ~~ as our
ownstaff, werecommend that you be treated bythem
for serious ailm~ts. The one known as the "Radio-
clast" is the most specific in diagnosis and treatment
of all we have seen. It is not necessary for the pa-
tient to be present to receive an accurate diagnosis,
for with this instrument a.complete diagnosis can be
·made from a few drops of the patient's blood sent
on a piece of clean white blotter or cotton wool.'
8 Write the author if interested in such a diagnosis.
CBAPTEll IX
MENTAL INFLUENCES
Your health results from a divine harmony of
body, mind and spirit, i. e.~ a pure body, a tranquil
mind and a Soul stayed on God.
Mind Soars.-" 'As a man thinketh in his heart,
so is he,' is more than a trite saying, for it is capable
of active and most convincing proof. As the body
clears of waste material with which it was fonnerly
loaded, the mind soars to heights not fonnerly
glimpsed by toxic minds, and new worlds sean to
open."J. '
Origin of Thought.-While thought originates'
in the mind in the mental world outside of and above
the body, it must utilize the body and its functions
to express itself on earth. And this expression de-
pends upon the condition of the body as an instru-
ment. Slow thinking, poor reasoning power, loss of
memory, lack of the power to concentrate are all
evidence, not ·of a defective brain, but of toxemia:.
Usually nothing is wrong with the brain, but its
functioning is interfered with by the toxic character
of the blood supplied to it.
-
78 HEALTH HINTS
Emotions.-Just as inharmonious, depressed and
toxic amditions of the body bave a correspondiDg
influence on the mind, so does your mind, and espe-
cially your emotions, have an enormous effect upon
the body. A mental shock may cause fainting.
Worry interferes with both digestion and sleep, etc.
Mental Healtb.-As we have already said:
"Mental health is the result of rightthinking. There-
fore, we must learn so to order our thoughts that.
they sbaU be constructive and helpful. We must also
study the laws of mind .so that we may work in
harmony with them and not waste our mental forces.
in vain imaginings. or fritter them. ~way in worry,
etc. •••. We must lrain our minds to work in har-
mony with our ideals and principles of life, and it
will then radiate harmony and health." •
Role of Mind.-.,It is often ignorantly said ~
all ills of the body are caused by the mind. This, of
ClOtU'Se, is obviously untrue, for all physical injuries,
external and internal poisonings, psychic disorders,
and all disorders resulting from improper diet, are
not caused by the mind; they come from without.
But Dll 11!e .rlfiStJiiOfl.f and .s:ymplom.r of illnu.r are
experienced through the reaction of _the mind to the
inbarmoilious cause of the sensatioD." • Hence in-
stead of ignoring the body and trying toJ~teract
theeffects of its broken laws by the mind and higher
•Tu M•~MW• of ..tfi'Cit'W. Cartiu, 151--&1-52
MENTAL INFL'UENCES 79.
powers, the first thing to do is to see tbat you do not
poison the blood which bathes the.whole body, espe-
ciaDy thebrain and nervous systems, with the results
of pervertedbodychemistryand uneliminated wastes.
A brain so nourished cannot act normally. A
thorough cle;msing of the body will not only change ·
the chemical condition of your blood and tissues, but
will also change your mental reactions and your
whole psychology.
Mental Harmbny.-When harmonized, themind.
yields to the normal needs of a pure body without
being hampered by ~ess. Yet .it controls the
body's desires without over-indulging them.
When inharmonious, both body and mind derange
each other by confusion of elanents, which wastes
the force of each.
Thought a Magnet.-Thought is a magnet. It
atP"ads to you others' thoughts of like cbar.u:ter
which tend to find expression through you, unless
counteracted by an opposite thought of greater.
power.
Subconscious MiDd.-Especla11y do your emo-
tions ·have an enormous effect. AU negative "emo-
tions have a most devitalizing and disintegratiDg, in
some cases an adually JHMOfiOfU, effect upon the
body. This is due to their effect upon the subcmt
scious mind, which controls-all the functions of life ·
-circUlatiOn~ respiration, digestion, assimil8tion,
80 HEALTH ffiNTS
excretion, repair and chemical activities-through
the solar plexus and the sympathetic nervous system.
Governs Body.-"But the subconscious mind
must not be thought of as merely the janitor in the
basement who supplies the furnace with fuel and re-
moves the ashes, for it is far more. It is.an aspect
of mind which governs all our reflex activities or
unconscious and instinctive reactions, and these
functions are by no means entirely autmnatic. In
addition to this, under normal conditions it suggests
or gives us a craving for what we .should eat, what
we should-wear and how we should protect and take
care of our body through diet, exercise, recreation,
etc., even-if these suggestions are overruled by our
preconceived, environmental and family ideas; by
our vanity, our indolence, or the ideas of others
which we impose upon it. If we learned to foUow
the guidance of the subconscious a.s to the welfare of
the body, we would seldom be sick or get rundown
and stagnant. Yet this instinctive mind must not
be given fuU and unlimited sway, for it also ex-
presses the passions, desires and appetites of the
animal body which must be checked, governed and
directed by the two higher aspects of the mind which
are above it and ~hich are responsible for the de-
gree to which it is indulged."
1 Sead for a c:DP7 of this article Regmmalitm G1lll liN JIW,
Curtiss.
MENTAL INFLUENCES 81
MentalLaws.-As we have said elsewhere: "Re-
member that one of the fundamental laws of mind
is: E~ thought tends to express itself in action
unless counteracted or neutralized by an opposite
thought of greater power. Therefore, we must refuse
to think the kind of thoughts that we do not wish
expressed through us. But never fight them; for to
do so we are concentrating upon them and giving
them greater power. Instead of resisting or fight-
ing them, we must simply tum our minds aaiay from
them by concentrating on and filling our minds with
the opposite kind of thoughts, ones which we do
wish to have expressed through us.
Power Over You.-"Another fundamental law
is: Every thought that we admit into our minds
and contemplate we give a power over us. But we
do not have to admit into our minds, contemplate
and go over and over every thought that may arise
in or be presented to our consciousness. We can
tum away from and refuse to dwell upon those
thoughts which do not measure up to the ideals of
our lives. Therefore, remember that we do not
have to admit or contemplate thoughts of evil or
ill health unless we choose to do so. The supreme
importance of carefully choosing and controlling
our thoughts as the basis of our lives ~es in the fact
~ ~ery word and act is but the ultimate expres-
sion of a thoughtor instinct. Good thoughts beget
82 HEALTH HINTS
good words and acts, and vice versa, and all have
their reflex action in the body.
Suggestion.-"The great significance of these
laws lies in the fact that our subconscious mind is
ex:l:lemely suggestible. It is possi'ble to be made ac-
tually ill by being continually told how ill you look. ·
And you can greatly encourage and help others by
telling them how much better and happier they are
looking today.
Do Not Accept.-''You do not bave to respond
to suggestions, unless you deliberately choose to do
so, if you keep your mind poised, discriminating and
positive.
Flesh Responds.-"Any positive idea or thought
held in the rational mind acts like a command which
the subconsciOus mind takes up and endeavors to
express in action, in function and even in structure;
that is, it endeavors to build the logical meaning of
that thought into our very flesh. This is why we
ultimately come to express in our looks and acts the
predominating type cif thoughts which we think, i. e.,
gluttonous, selfi~h, vain, crafty, cruel, etc., or pure,
frank, kind and sympathetic. -
Repercussion.-"lf the power of the mind to ac-
tually alter the structure of'tiN body is 5o great that
by the continued morbid concentration on the five
wounds of Jesus, the stigmata-the actual pllysi-
cal wounds in the hands, feet and side-appeared on
MENTAL· INFLUENCES 83
the body of St. Francis of Assissi and several other
medieval ps)ocbics, as- wen as upon the body of the
young peasant girl, Theresa Neuman of Komers-
·reuth, Austria, who for-over four years (192~0)
was under the investigation of the greatest physi-
cians, scientists and psychic researchers of Europe,
what a mighty regeneration of the body can not the
mind accomplish if repeatedly focussed with equa1ly
intense concentration upon the manifestation in our
flesh of the divine perfection-the Divine Life,
health, love,_ power and happiness of the Divine
Indwell~, if we will only strive to live in His con-
sciousness and in the. Ralization of His indwelling
~ce.
Rebuilding..-"AU the ce1Js of every tissue and
organ of thebodyare continuaUy dividing and grow- ·
ing and producing new cells to replace the cells that
are worn out by each days activities. Some tissues
are replaced more rapidly than other more dense .
ones, such as the bones, but science estimates that
at the end of.every seven years we have an entirely
new ·body which contains not a single cell we had·
Sev~ years before. And 'it is upon these sensitiVe
neW cells thus constantly formed. that the submn-
scious mind impresses the characteristics of the
thoughts we habitually hold or hold temporarDy but,
under great emotional-stress or c:oncmtration. Thus
we are constantlychanging the make-up of our body
by the character of the thoughts we hold.
84 HEALTH HINTS
Regeneration.-:-";Ihis law is the key-note of re-
generation; for if we hold the idea that we must
sometimes be sick, must ultimately grow old, ha~e
our body wear out and die, quite naturally those .
fixed and stagnant ideas are built into and manifest
in our flesh and so stagnate all our vital functions,
and old age and death necessarily follow. We,
therefore, have to withdraw from the physical world
because the functions of our instrument of mani-
festation have become so stagnant that the life-force
.from the higher worlds can·no longer flow through
tJtem.
Reincamation.-"This is the reason for reincar-
nation. We must keep returning again and again
until we learn to live in and be dominated, not by
the .subconsciou.s mind of the body which is mortal,
nor by the consciousness of the rational mind which
is limited in expression, Jmtby_th~ Super-conscious
Mind of the Higher Self or Divine Indweller who is
immortal. We must reincarnate until we can build
up and perfect a body that will express the Real or
Spiritual Self instead of merely that manifested
fragment oi that Self which we call the 11~-~.:.
sonality or personal self. But, as the Lord said to
Job: • 'If there be an interpreter· (the illumined
mind) to shew unto man his uprightness (or divine
·perfection) ; then ••• his flesh shall be fresher
•Job. xxxiii. 23-5.
,- ~-I
MENTALINFLUENCES ~
than a child's; he sball return to the days of his
youth.'"'
Mental Attitude.-You must have a positive de-
sire to recover. A mere weak wish to be relieved of
suffering is not enough. There must be a positive
desire, a burning resolution that is not only willing
to "take the trouble" to change !JOfl,r habits of life~
iJ! spite of the op4lloris of those who do not under-
stand your reasons. And there must be a determined
'lllill to carry it thr(Jfl,gh to success, to joyous radiant
health. Defeat·is deadly. Never accept it.
~--It is said that an Irishman is never down.
except to get -a better hold. Then you should be
Irish in this sense. Never give up, but always be
looking for a better hold.
Planetary ConditioDS.-Astrological conditions
undoubtedly affect the health. But astrology teaches
you to "Rule your star_s" and not give way to their
forces as·though they were fate. If the body is kept
detoxicated and alkaline, and the mind kept positive
and responsive tO constructive forces only, any ad-
verse astrological conditions can be neutralized or
t1:tmed into constructive channels, just as the sailor
adjusts his sails to make adverse winds push him
onward to his port.
1 See lesson Rig~ tllld 1M JIW. Curtiu.
CHAPTER X
EMOTIONS
Your emotions have an even more powerful effect
upon the body tban do your thoughts, as they act
directly upon the emotional or astral body and ·thus
repercus or react upon the physical. .
Constructi~ Em~~Joy and happiness
bring smiles and stimulate all the bodily functions
and givea general sense of well-being. Love suffuses
the body with· a warm constructive glow, while
prayer and spiritual aspiration tune your mind into
the uplifting vibrations of the spiritual world, and
your body responds in ~ony and health. ·
Negative Emoticms.-On the other hand, nega-
tive emotions have a decidedly disintegrating, and
in many cases an actually poisonous, effect.
Fear.1
-Fear paralyzes not only your muscles, so
that :You may literally be "scared stiff," but it also
paralyzes all the digestive functions, so that food in
the stomach lies like a dead weight. It may also
paralyze the sphincter muscles so they cannot retain
th~ bodY wastes. B~ since you are not a mortal,
, 1 Send far free c:opy of lesson P..- Nol, Curtiss. Also ~
I'Slllflll, xd, 5 and 7. .
.86
EMOTIONS 87
but an immortal, spiritual being, there is nothing to
fear if_you rely confidently and absolutely on that in-
ner Spiritual Self or I Ani Pres~ which is your
Real Self, for guidance and protection.
.Em is bred of i~ or misunderstanding,
and .causes worry over health or other conditions,
thus depleting the vitality. According to Dr. Hay·it
is evidence of devitalization due to toxemia.•
~iseas_e and Old Age.-''Do you fear disease, or
evencatching cold? _If.so, that fear paralyzes your
natural immunity, lowers your_vitality and aids in
bringing the disease upon you. For fear causes
weakness; disintegration and hence weak spots, and
the weak spots ultimately break down and make gaps
which let the evil forces enter. The debilitating
effects. of fear also cause sluggish functioning of
your organs and inability to produce their normal
secretions. ·
"Do you fear old age?· Such fear generates the.
negative thought-pictures of old age, and you patu-
raUy begin to react to them, whereas had you re-
alized that old age can be mellow, gracious, wise,.
beloved and beautiful, you would be reacting to
those constructive thought-pictures instead of to the
negative, and would forget the years.
''Mererecognitionof evil for what it is-amortal-
created negative and disintegrating center of force
2 Tiw Nlfll H-"11Br~~, Hay. 113.
·88 HEALTH HINTS
--does not necessarily involve fear of it or contami-
nation·by it. You are contaminated by it only to
the extent that you respond to and give it power over
you. And you do not have lo respond. But if you
refuse to recognize mud in the gutter and do not
step over or go around it, you may be besmirched by
it.".
_:Timid Souls.-Timid souls become so negative
that they fear everything new; fear the opinions of
their friends and all the dire predictions of the
neighbors, etc. This can be overcome by taking a.
positive stand for the truths and Jaws you have
learned-the Jaws of health for instance-and prove
your sincerity by following them out.
. Over 99% of anticipated fears are groundless,
hence Useless.
Anger.-Anger is so extremely destructive an
emotion that it generates poisons in such quantities
that they can be chemically detected in the blood!
The milk of nursing mothers has been so poisoned
by fits of anger that their babies died. It raises the
blood pressure and literally makes you ''hot under
the collar."> The saying, "I was so mad I could
die," has literally come true in many cases. There-
• See lesson F«W Nol.. Curtiss.
' It is daime.d by 1011te that if a person who has been
·furiously- qry can be induced shortly afterward to breathe
into a c:billed tumbler or bottle, a few drops of moisture from
his breath will ·condense inside the cold ftssc1. If this liquid
is placed on the tongue of.a cat. it will soon ahow signs of
poisoning accordiug to the size .of the dose.
EMOTIONS 89
fore, immediately check any tendency to irritable
expressions which may lead to anger. Irritableness
usually has its basis in toxemia and should at onte
suggest a purge. Even resentment is disintegrating.
Resentment.-One student wrote us: "I have
been very nervous for many years and have devel-
oped diabetes. Also I hold resentment against one
who should be my support and help but who has held
me back every step of the way." We replied: "The
basis of your nervous condition and ~c inhar-
monies is largely a mental one, due to the fact that
you hold resentment. A carefUl study of our lesson
Judge N ot1 will show you that resentment is a very
disintegrating force. And since you receive back
the return current from everything you send out,
you have been devitalizing yourself by every wave of
resentment you have sent out, as it returns to the
sender. No wonder you feel the possibility of
sudden illness or death; for you have been generat-
ing the forces which produce just such conditions,
and are being warned against them f~ within.
Therefore, you cannot expect full freedom from
nervousness, fear of death or from ·your physical
illness as long as you continue to send out the dis-
integrating forces of resentment and the paralyzing
force of fear."
"Never mind~hat anyone has done to you. That
is past and gone, and wiii be taken care of by karmic
HEALTH HINTS
law in due.season. It is hoMing on to it that holds
you baclt. Realize that 110 one can hold you back
but )'!>lU'Self, tmless you are so negative and lacking
in courage q¢etly to assert your rights; that you
permit it. Remember that you JtlUSt forget as well
as forgive; for as Imig as you are holding on to the
_memory of the condition and your resaJtmem, you
have not really forgiven." 15
Jealousy.-Jealousy and envy are acidifying and
-. corroding forces similar•to rust, but more virulent.
:-"1! we analyze our'motives when inclined to speak
critically of others, we will usually find an element
of pride, envy, jealousy, fear or a d~re to triumph
or feel superior to the one criticized. The Real Self
of us is never critical, is never envious of the pos-
sessions· of others; for we have incarnated with
possessions of our own, The things in our environ-
ment are just those needed for our training and un-
foldment. • • • Our Real Self is never j~ous of
the .attainments of others, for we incarnated to
-manifest our D'llm attaiiunents, faCulties and quali-
ties which we gained in the-past. Hence, instead of
resenting the,success of otherS· we should rejoice in
it, as they should in ours." 15
Laughter.-''Laugh and grow fat'' is an old ad-
age that expresses a great truth. For ail the con-
structive ·emotions relax nervous tension and
EMOTIONS 91
inluoitiODS, and stimulate all gl:indular activities,
equalize the c:ircuJation and promote assimilation and
repair.
No Controversies..-The hostess unconsciously
recogniZes this law when she is careful to select only
guests who will harmoliize. For the same reason
controversial subjects and arguments arebanned, for
any inhannony or mental clashing will ruin ~ di-
gestion· of the most compabole foods, while jokes,
laughter and merriment will help digest even the
most incompati'ble combination----but ·it will not
neutralize their harmful end-products. (See also
page 50.)
Your Reactions.-Remember it is not things,
people and conditions which. make you suffer; but
yow r:eacliorJ to them. And that reaction yot1 caa
ctmtrol"by a positive attitude of mind, and a reali-
zation that through the power of the I Am Presence
within, you are themaster of them. ' ·
"Realize that it is not your tasks or duties that
worry you or retard your evolution, but yotW Gtti-
tude of mind toward them, the permitting oNver-y-
day tri1les so to occupy your mind that you never
let them go.
Joys.-"Joyful news makes the heart glad and
refreshes the body. · The little j~ of life are just
as satisfying as the little cares are·annoying. While
you are facing thelittle cares, watch out for the little
-92 HEALTH HINTS
4'--
joys. • • • If you dwell in the little joys, they run
together and soon break out into a mighty soul-
satisfying happiness which will be like a strong, deep
undercmrent of joy bearing you through all the
cares and sorrows of life."•
Change.-c'The law of change is the law of'Hfe,
and applies to peoples, civilizations, customs, ideas
and religions, as well as to physical forms. • • •
Change is essential to all growth and progress, even
the change of disintegration-whether of old forms,
customs, habits or thoughts-thit new and better
types may manifest."
You also .need a change of environment. A va-
cation or frequent little outings, even a walk through
the par~, change the vibra~ons of your aura and
your attitude of mind. They enable you to make
new contacts and arouse new interests in life, thus
contributing constructive ideas, sensations, as well
as exercise, to the benefit of your health.
Recreation.-Your changes should be construc-
tive and fun and joy producing. If so, they are
recreating. But they must he wisely plamted to in-
clude ample rest and relaxation. Many plan so many
activities on their vacations that they come home all.
tired out. Make your re-creation the dominant
factor in all your changes.
Overwork.-:-The man who c'breaks down," or
•n. Voiu of IIV. Cartiss,-36, 5, 53.
EMOTIONS 93
bas so-called neurasthenia, in middle Ufe, and the
college student who thinks he has ruined his health
by "over study" and who are benefited by a vacation,
are both suffering from bad habits of life. Chief of
these is acidosis and toxemia from wrong diet. A
course of acid and toxic elimination, with its attend-
ant relief of mental strain, will usually cure such
breakdowns in a few days. -
Periodic Depression.-Many women suffer pe:
riodic depresSion in connection with their monthly
cycle, but if they will take a one day purge and fast,
just_ before the period, followed by a low-protein
diet, all trouble can usually be eliminated. This
_also applies to disorders of the climateric period.
Optimism.-It is not only your birthright, but
your duty to others to be happy. Keeping the body
free from abnormal products and accumulations
will make your body so healthy that_ you will natu-
rally be happy. But you should also keep a Positive
and ~onious attitude toward Hfe. Realize that
seldom is anything so bad that it couldn't be worseI
Give thanks then that things are no worse than they
are, and go resolutely, pOsitively and cbeerf~
about remedying them.
Determination.-The sun will rise every day,
whether you see it or not, and it will continue to
rise every day 1mtil the end of time. Each day is
a new day, a newIncarnation. The old is past and
HEALTH HINTS
gone and need not be lived ..over, even in thought.
· Each day is a fllfl1 oPJiorltlnity for you to cLemPA:.
strate the degree of your growth, the degree of your
realization of the Law, and the amount of your
courage and determination.
Smile.-Therefore, make a practice of greeting
every person and also every condition with a smile,
and radiate your positive determination to conquer
harmoniously.
ADima1 Emoticma-Remember tbat all negative and de-
structive emotioos--such as fear, auger, hatred, resentment, jeal-
<oasy, enyY, greed etc.-c~re JIDI :JotW naolimu~ but those of the
anUua1 self. They well up from the subc:onscious miricl. and if
you allow them to express they ~ :JOU react like an animal
instead of like a spiritual being. ADd fOU must pay the uenaltY
for giving them _expression by reapmg the rCsUlts ol their
effects upon J01II' body, mind and spirit. •
R.emauber also that 'Dfl do nol hlsw lo reslt»&tl to and gave
them •
AU~ and CODStructive ~ as joy,
happiness, love, c:cmpassion, pity, uoselfishness, self~ficc etc.
--come not from the animal self but from the DiYine Self.
Hence these emotioos sltOflld b/ dtlibnul~l, cwlliwml and
given cmstant expression qntil their expi'ession becomes in-
stindive and babitUaL See the next chapter for directions.
CHAPTER XI
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES
"Know ,e not tbat ye are the temple of God. aad tbat
the Spirit of God dWdleth in 1011l ••• for the taDp1e
of God is holy, which temple ye are.• .
' I CoriaiiJicllu., iii, 16, 17.
''Come. 0 Lord of Life and Love and Beauty, Tboa
who art myself and yet are God, and dwd1 in tJ:ds bod;y
~ flesh, radiating all the -~ of hotiaas and perieo-
tioa, tbat the flesh may out~ all that TbOa art
within.,. Prgyw1 of Uw 0. C. M7 Curtiss. 6.
While in this short treatise we cannot go into
~etail, we may say that healing _from the higher
realms falls info three general groups: Psychic
healing or that performed by the aid of discarnate
doctors and groups of specially trained helpers in
the astral world; Faith healing, or that performed
by prayer and faith;·Spiritual healing, or that per-
formed by_direct inVocation of angelic and cosmic
forces. - _ · -
Psychic Jnduction.-c'Many sensitive persons
soon develop symptoms of the malady with which a
deceased loved one passed out. Such persons suffer
just as acutely as though thej really had such a
physical disease. • • • Such persons are simply
suffering from astral amditions unwittingly thrown
over them througnmagnetic induction by the de-
95
HEALTH HINTS
.
ceased loved one who is tryiBg to make them recog-
nize him. • • • This frequently ceases or is 'cured'
when _they recognize its source. If it is not, it
should be stopped by repeatedly challenging the de-
parted one and demanding that he withdraw from
their aura and remain outside it in the future." 1
Many cases of "instant healing'' are this type, for
there is no pathological or structural change to be
corrected,-only the astral influence to be removed.
Psychic Healing.-True psychic healing is ac-
compli$hed either by independent ·healers, often
American Indians, usuaiiy medicine men, for they
are in close rapport with Nature-forces and are able
to direct them to great advantage; by deceased phy-
sicians and their helpers, or by bands of trained
workers under some higher Teacher. The hundreds
of seemingly miraculous cures accomplished by the
celebrated deceased English physician, Dr. Beat,
through the mediumship of Miss E. M. Harvey, are
strikingly described in her three books, The House
of Wonder, One Thing I KJJO'W~ and Dr. Beal. Sim-
ilar marvelous beatings by bands of trainedrdeceased
persons are ~Ually accomplished by "The Guild
of Spiritual Healing," under the leadership of "Dr.
LasceUes" of London. These are only two ex-
. . .
1 For. further details see RftJIJU of llw LiWtg D«Ml, Curtiss.
89. 90.
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 97
amples of many, many other psychic sincere healing
circles in aU parts of the world.
Invisible Helpers.-Similar miraculous healings,
also other marvelous answers to prayer, are daily
being performed by the Order's band of Invisible
Helpers under the leadership of Harriette Augusta
Curtiss, with the technical assistance of Dr. D. Hayes
Agnew, former professor of Surges;y at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, and the Masters who are
bade of the Order of Christian Mystics. Many of
these marvelous cures have been reported in our
N e'IIJS Letters for over twenty years.
Noon Prayer Service.-Every day at noon a
"Prayer of Demonstration Service" is held in the
Sanctuary at the Headquarters of the Order of
Christian Mystics in Washington. At that time,
through the use of our Healing Prayer ritual, we
invoke the spiritual forces from the higher spiritual
realms and direct them to the students who have
written in for varlous kinds of help, until their
auras are filled to overflowing with the divine radi-
ance of the spiritual power the service invokes. The
names are also recorded by the Invisible Helpers, and
special help of the kind best suited to the case is seut
to each petitioning one often with marvelous results.
Prayer and. Healing.-True prayer is an aspira- .
tion of the Soul for union with the Divine. AD
prayer to be effective-must be accompanied by in-
98- HEALTH mNTS
tcose aspiration to am.tactl~ It is a ray of
spiritual force from the heart which penetrates up
through all the lower realms of the invisible worlds
to the spiritual realm with which it aftinttizes, the
highest the development of the aspirant can reach.
But it has to reach up at least into the fourth sphere
before it can contact the Higher Teachers, Masters,
Devas and other angelic Beings. They wiJl come
down half way to meet you, but you must also reach
up to meet them half way. This is why selfish and
insinca:e prayers never reach higher-than the earth-
bound realms, hence are unanswered. For the an-
gelic helpers have no knowl~ge of you and your
ueeds until y0u tune in to the high vibrations of
Their conscicmsness.
The Return Current.-Onc:e make that contact
and you bring down the return current from what-
~ realm you have oontacted. As your aspiration
passes upward through the various realms, its line
of light attracts the attention, first of your loved
ones who are interested in your welfare, then the
higher angelicbeings and those Great Onesrwbo are
assigned to that work, and finally reaches the con-
-sciousness -of the Ouist, focussed through the
Master Jesus who is the bead of the Healing Hier-
archy. And He assigus to your help just those
~ persons and forces which can )lest meet your
need, in accordance with karmic law. Throughout_
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 99
the history of manldnd there bas alwajs been this
telepathic communion with the Christ. His incar-
nations were only a part of His work.
Healing Prayer.-"Oh Thou loving and helpful
Master JesusI Thou who gavest to Thy disciples·
power to heal the sick! We, reoognizing Thee. and
realizing Thy divine presence with us, ask Thee to
Jay Thy hands upon us in healing love. Oeanse us -
from all our sins, and by the divine power of Om-
nipotent Life, drive out the atoms of inbannony and
disease, and fill our bodies full to overflowing with
Life, and Love, and Purity."•
''If youreyes could be opened to see the effect the
lq)dition of this prayer produces on the higher
planes, the forces it brings to your aid, you would
realize its beauty and its power. When you m:ite
this prayer sincerely the angels crowd around you
like flocks of doves, to ward off harmful forces and
protect the germ of your physical, mental and spir-
itual life.
- The One-Life.-"Upon the highest plane of
Spirit, Ufe is the One-Life which can be ~thing but_
_perfection. The repetition of this prayer is like a
projectile fired through the earth's atmosphere creat-
ing a passage through which the One-Life must
nccessanly flow to you. As it passes from plane to
plane it manifests upon the soul plane-the plane of
-
•~~ of l1w 0. c. Jl., Curtiss, 8.
100 H~TH HINTS
creation and of redempti~ spiritual love. When
this spiritual love-the Son of God-reaches the
physical plane, it manifests in the body as the Life-
force. Thus the Christ manifests on the spiritual
plane as the One-Life,.on the soul plane as Love and
on the physical plane as Life-force. .
"This is the rationale of aU heating, and a thor-
ough recognition and realization of the presence of
this life-force, and its working out in a three-fold
manner, produces that harmony which is health to
both mind and body. It also bannoilizes conditions
in your environment.
Condenses Aura.-••Negative emotions produce
inharmony and sickness by condensing your aura
and shutting out this force of life from you. If
you send a thought of hatred toward a person you
put a wall around yourself which only your own
loving thoughts and prayers such as the above, can
pierce and break down, and wliich shuts out the life-
force from you and permits disease to flourish.
Jesus Answers.-"Jesus, the high Master who is
at the head of the Healing Hierarchy, is ever ready
to answer such>a call as this prayer sends out. And
it is only such-a call that can pierce the clouds that
hide the earthly·from the Divine, and make a channel
through whi~ the divine healing forces can reach
you. .
•'When you say •Jay Thy ~ds upon us in healing
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 101
love,' it is a literal adaptation of the words, 'Thou
bast made Thine angels Thy handmaidens, and Thy
ministers a flaming sword;' for the angelic hosts
minister to all pure hearts who desire their help.
"The 'bands' which you ask the great Master to
Jay upon your head are His powers to accomplish,
manifested through this host of angels who have the
power to carry His divine force to you.
Help Desired.-"Whenever you desire help, phy-
sical, mental or spiritual, either for youi-self or
others, repeat this prayer, meditating on each word
and trying to realize its true meaning on all planes
of your being.
"As the Master Jesus gave to His disciples power
to heal the sick, and has never withdrawn that gift,
so every true disciple who firmly believes this, and
faithfully strives to manifest the Christ Principle
within him, has •ow the power, through the Jayin~
on of hands,. (by the summoning of the angelic
hosts), to bring this One-Life into manifestation,
and thus relieve ills and promote health and har-
mony."•
- Faith HeaUng.-"Faith is a Soul memory or
inner conviction, even though inexplicable to the
reasoning mind, that. everything manifesting in the
Cosmos comes from the Divine and descends
through the various worlds and realms of expression
-
102 HEALTH HINTS
to manifest uJnmatet} ~ on earth acr.ordiug to
exact Jaw. The greater this realization, the greater
the demonstration. 'According to thy faith be it
unto thee.' Absolute faith in your oneness with the
Divine enables the cosmic forces to flow into you
and ·jour affairs and solve all your problems for
you,.be it healing, guidance or supply. • • • Lack
of faith makes the Soul anemic and lifeless. • • •
Have faith that that which has been planted within
shall grow and bring forth ab~~ day by day,
so that the substance of things hoped for shall be-
come the manifested evidence of things not seen." 1
Faith Needed.-Although Jesus said: "All
things are posst"ble to him that believeth,1
' • .even He ·
found faith in Him necessary on the part of the
patient, for in His home town, "He did not many
mighty works there because of their tmbelief/' T
Quiet Time.-We have repeatedly urged you to
make a period of prayer, of "morning quiet'' and
consecration, the most important engagement of the
day. F9!' it is an engagement to meet and correlate
with the indw:elling presence of the Christ, claiming
His promise, "l am with you always," and relying
on Him in absolute trust, and i• obedimce to His
guidance, and believing in it (Matt. xxi, 22), (St.
1o1m, xiv, .13, 14), whether you consciously hear the
I Semi for free «:0117 of the lesson Oil Ftaillt. Cartiu.
• Sl. Jlarll. ix, 23.
. "Sl. MIIIIMfll. xiii. 58.
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 103
answer or not. If you do this, then you will be
given the power. And it win be given in propor-
tion to the intensity of your desire and your cxmse-
aation to it. But to attain it you must be willing
to let go of and ctmStimuly give up every known sin
or inconsistency. You must maintain right relation-
ships with all men; must willingly make amends ~or
every unkind word and make restitution for every
wrong done as soon as you are guided to do so.
Only so can you be spiritually free, free from the
overshadowing, hampering consciousness of inbar-
mony not adjusted.
Discipllne.-Keepingthatmorningtrystisa most
practical exercise which pays big dividends in tan-
gible, physical results, health and success. It is also
•tJ test of lhe sitJCerily of ycnK- desire for advance-
ment. -It is a test in self-disdpline to see if you will
get up ten minutes earlier and lalu lhe ulrtJ lime
for this communion and guidance. But to make it
effective you must take the attiude of, "Speak Lord,
for Thy servant heareth." Then you must wait,
not tensely, but relaxed and quietly, as if listening
to a loved voice, for the strongest impression or
idea that comes. ·
How Test?-How can you tell that it is truly
spiritual ·guidance? Test it by these standards.
Does it go contrar¥- to the highest standard or-be-
lief you already hold? Is it absolutely honest, pufe.
104 HEALTH HINTS
unselfish and kind? Does it conflict with your rec-
---...
.ognized duties and responsibilities to others? If
uncertain, continue to pray silently during the day
for light and guidance on that problem, or you may
talk it over with some friend who also gets his
guidance and can understand your need and give
you corroboration. Also write down the main ideas
and impressions which arise during your meditation.
Then at night see how far they have worked out.
In other words, look upon yourself not as a mere
mortal, but as a spiritual being who •is making a
short tour of this world and who must render an
account of his activities in this outer world each
night. By following this plan you will gain certain
definite results in the way, first, of positive guidance
as to how to handle the chief events of the day
which you know mnfront you, whether they be of
a business or personal nature. Also .you will get
reminders of things you should do; errands, letters
to write, visits to make, appoinbnents to keep, etc.
You will get guidance concerning others and your
relation to. them, sharing happy thoughts, saying
kind, cheering words, doing unselfish deeds, etc.
You will also 'be given warnings what not to do,
how the Inner Radiance will protect you from un-
desirable influences, etc.
Morning · Prayer.-Remember the Moming
Prayer: ''I have within me the power of the Christ.
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 105
I can conquer all that comes to me today. I am
strong enough to bear every trial and accept eflet'Y
joy and to say 'Thy will be done.' Amen."•
A Changed Life.-lf health and long life are
thus restored to you, what will you do with them?
Will you go on living the same old thoughtless,
selfish, aimless, unplanned life? Will you. go on
making the same old mistakes and suffering from .
the same old results? Or will you profit by the
help offered you by this book and henceforth live
a changed life, not only physiCally, but mentally,
morally, socially and spiritually? -.
Know and Do.-ltis not enough for you merely
to know the principles and laws of life presented
herein. If they are of any importance to you, then
you will /JUf them into practice. That means a
changed mode of life for you, changed habits,
changed mode of thought, motives, actions.
Decide Now.-Make up your mind definitely to
follow religiously the suggestions given herein.
For no matter how good they are, they will do you
no good unless you apply them. Therefore, make
them a definite part of your daily routine, more im-
.portant than your meals. And the rewards which
Nature and the Great Law will give you will be ·
beyond price.
Your Reactions.-Why wait until you pass on
• PtQtrl of 1M 0. C. M;"Curtiss, 3.
106 HEALTH HINTS
from this life to look over, recognize and correct
your mistakes? Why not do it now and save the
unnecessary_ suffering you will otherwise have to
pass through? Never mind how others react to a
knowledge of the Law. Your reactioA is the im-
portant thing. Therefore, determine that you wiU
live up to the knowledge you have gained and hence-
forth will work with the Law, or let the Law work
through and for you.
An Important Decision.-Today for you is the
.n~ost important day of your life. thus far. You
have been entrusted with all the information con-
tained herein, and you wiU be held responst"ble for
the use or lack of use you make of it. Therefore,
tkt:ide today. By deciding favorably you can look
forward to a prolonged, useful and happy life, free
from bodily ills and mental worries and other hand- ·
icaps to the manifestation of your Real Self and
living your real life.
Origin Divine.-As we have said elsewhere:
"Our body is, indeed; an advanced animal organ-
ism, the. most advanced of the whole animal king-
dom. _But it is far more than an advanced animal,
for it has been evolved• and prepared for a special
purpose, namely, the manifestation in the physical
world of a divine and spiritual Being who· is far
above the animal kingdom, the Spiritual Man made
• See Bt10ltlliorl GIIIIIM Bibll. Cartiu, Qapten ill, -w-, six.
SPIRITUAL INFLUENCES 107
in the image of God and eternal in-die heavens, and
whose home or center of force-like ail centers of
force-is in the invisible realms, in this case in the
Spiritual World as explained above. It is through
this intimate relationship between the Spiritual
Self and its animal instrument of expression that
the animal becomes the earthly dwelling place of
that Divine Self. And within this instrument the
Christ-consciousness must dwell, even though at
first it must rest almost dormant, like a babe
wrapped in swaddling clothes, waiting until the
spiritual radio-activity of His presence can grad-
ually uplift our consciousness and our thoughts and
aspirations into a great longing for Divinity, and
finally into a great realization of His ac:tua1 pres-
ence within us. • • .And through these powers that
Higher Self must learn to control the animal
organism and lift it" up until it i.s an efficient and
obedient servant of the Ouist within. Then it
will in truth be a temple of the living God. This
is the great lesson for us to learn.
Real Self.-''We will then realize that the Real
Self is never inharmonious, ·angry, iU or discour-
aged. All those emotions and inharmonious con-
ditions arise within the body or the consciousness
of the personal self. And when they arise, if we
tum to the Christ within at once, He will give us
the power to conquerand n:deem them. We must,
108 HEALTH HINTS
of course, utilize the functions and powers of the
animal body, but must control them and not allow
them to dominate us. We must eat and drink, not
because we love to eat and drink-although we
should enjoy doing so-but that our physical body
may be a healthy, happy animal, a more nearly
perfect instrument for our use. We must protect
it not only from physical harm, but also from the
devastating storms of inharmony, antagonism,
anger and other destructive emotionS, and also
fs:om the poisonous effects of• incorrect eating and
of impure thoughts, so that our body shall be
kept as a holy temple, so pure, dean, hannonious
and holy that the Divine Self will have little diffi-
culty in manifestating through it. •••Then His
radiance will flow outward and pervade our whole
nature, purifying, uplifting and blessing it and
making our whole body in very truth a temple of
the Lifli"!J God wherein dwelleth righteousness." 10
May the following of the teachings given herein
be a source of purification, understanding, health,
harmony, happiness and blessing to you.
CHAPTER XU
Food Combinations.-Any food mcolumn 1 or
in column 3 may be combined with any food in col-
u~ 2. But do NOT combine any food in column 1
with any food in column 3, with the exceptions that
honey, being a natural sweet, may be combined with
fruits, and that almonds may be combined with any
other food, as they are alkaline-forming.
I 2 s
eo-muDS FAD •houma
SrDCIID .ADimal a-.
Arddoota AYOCadoea
~
llulaDu
._
=(dried) Batter Gelatia
c-nat Meats
Cereals Cod Uvcr Oil Milk
Cam Cnua Nuts(aapt
Floar Pnldacb faYolb claeStaats ....
Putries Liid JC'lts)
Peuuats ~Nuts Foocl
Pas. (clriecl) Vecetable 0111
== Ar.uuu-'8.\D-
PumpkiD
Rice. (po&W) Vwmrr&•n -- hvml•
=:..(wlaw).
., Gr.. (C011'4
Beets CanaCIIlCob &da
T.paca Canvts ere.
~
OaJ,v - item at a Celery Jlaot Cucumbcn
~ KDiatiahi Dudeliaa Jlmia (aD-
~
Duke
f:.'r"
Sn:aa ~PJaat
&t~
llalbroaala lluaDu
Oalau Gnat (dart alia)
t:l:. c!e.~
Clenies
&. Currmts
=- Kale Dates
Lett1a FJP
=:_Su&u Gr..
Otra
=..u
~
Oliva
=--- ~
LeaiaDa
RalliDs Melaaa
SU~N
~~
== ~
Syrupa
TUemiltwltJafruitsud ~
t;';t.nl Peua
~.. Pa-
'ft&'dabiD•• BroCx:ali
=-at ~(Rwll)
Gla.-,.:rr~ (80~) ~ TGIII&toa ......
..r-.......-....1:.1": ~ (~ Tuam-
• Fnsla or dded-111 ..._- (acept Plams)
109
SUGGESTIVE MENUS
of compatible combinations
BBEAKFAST SUGGESTIONS
Sedenlary Persons
Fresh fruit or fruit juices (unsweetened) or oc-
casional toast and coffee with cream and sugar, if
greatly desired or if weather is very cold.
AciWe'Persons
· Crisp fat bacon, three or foUi- slices of toasted or
stale whole wheat, rye or graham bread, well buttered
and with honey if desirP.d. Or
~le grain pancakes or wafBes with maple syrup
or honey and coffee, ~ and sugar.
Soaked figs or dates may be added to either of the
above breakfasts.
Luxcmr.ox
Monday
Cream of mushroom soup
Fresh beans steamed
Salad: Romain lettuce
with French dressing1 ·
Dessert: Orange and
grapefruit sections with
whipped cream.
Dixxa.
Monday .
Vegetable broth
Roast chicken or broilers
Steamed carrots
Steamed spinach
Saltul: Tomato, meum-
her, watercress with ripe
olives and mayonnaise~
Desserl: F~ red grapes.
.
1
AlW&78 use lemon juice instead of vinegar.
1
1lay be flavored. With· pinea~ juice, but when used with a
starch meal sauerkraut jmce may be used in pJacc of l.emoll or
pineapple juice. •
110
SUGGESTIVE MENUS 111
Hard workers may add: Baked Potato, Crisp Fat
Bacon.
Tuesday
Cream of onion Soup1
Steamed spinach (chopped
fine)
Salad: Cooked string
beans, green peppers
and tomato, with French
dressing
Dessert: Baked apples
with cream.
Tuesday
Tomato juice
Roast beef
Brussels sprouts steamed
Steamed wax beans
Salad: Shredded cabbage.
apple, chopped mush-
rooms and celery or raw
spinach leaves with
mayonnaise.
Dessert: Fresh pears.
Hard workers may add: Baked potato, sliced ODioDs.
Duserl: Date ice cream.
Wetlnesday
Tomato soup
Steamed celery root
Salad: Shredded carrot
and parsnips with may-
onnaise.
Dessm: Fresh green
grapes.
Cream of mushroom soup
Hashed brown potato with
onion
Crisp fat bacon
Steamed celery
Salad: Tomato with
_ whipped cream
Dessert: Maple ice cream. ·
Hard workers may add: Broiled T bone steak at
lunch.
Thursday Thursday
Cream of beet soup Vegetable soup
Steamed celery and lee!. Roast Lamb. Bakedonion
1 Various cream soups may be"made with ~ cup of the vege-
table chosen, ~ cup of water and ~ cup of cream. Season
with vegetable salt.
112 HEALTH HINTS
Salad: Combination vege-
table
Dessert: Shredded pears
in whipped cream with
nuts.
Baked egg plant
Salad: Beet, bean, carrot,
pea and celery with
French dressing.
Desert: Apple Sauce
with whipped cream
sweetened with honey or
raisins.
Hard workers may add: Whole wheat macaroni,
Lettuce and onion salad with oil, dates and cream.
Friday Friday
- .
Cream of' pea soup Vegetable broth
Broccoli with Hollandaise Broiled halibut or steak
sauce
Salad: Green pepper, to-
mato and betmuda onion
with French dressing
Dessert: Slices Pineapple.
Steamed endive
Buttered carrots
Salad: Cabbage, apple,
celery and raisin with
mayonnaise
Dessert: Peaches and
cream.
- Hard workers may add: Buttered whole wheat toast,
Sour cream cookies.
Saturday
Cream of ,spinach soup
Steamed wax beans with
_mushrooms '
Salad: Lettuce with pi-
mento dressing
Dessert: _Raw apple.
Saturday
Cream of pea soup
Mashed Potato
Sauerkraut
Bacon (if desired)
Celery & radishes
Dessert: Baked custard
with maple syrup.
With lunch hard workers may add: hot sliced meat.
SUGGESTIVE MENUS 113
Sunday
Cream of parsnip soup
Fresh asparagus on toast
SaltJd: Tomato with
whipped cream
De~m: Frozen custard.
Tomato juice
Broiled live lobster
Steamed fresh green beans
Steamed broccoli
Salad: Lettuce with
French dressing
Dessert: Fresh fruit cup
Demitasse.
Hard workers may add: Cookies.
-
Menus from the Sun-Diet Health Service1
Breakfast is preferably composed of fruit and milk -
or else some form of whole grain breadstuff with sweet
fruit, or figs, dates or raisins.
LUNCH
Monday
Scalloped potatoes with
onion ,
Steamed celery root
Mashed turnips
Asparagus tips on lettuce
with Oil dressing
Dates.
Tuesday
Toasted whole wheat
bread with butter
Vegetable soup
Poached Eggs
Brussels sprouts
Rutabagas
StJlad_ of lettuce, apples,
and raisins with
whipped cream
California grapes.
Tuesday
Carrot and onion soup
I:.amb chops
1 TM Mtuln' Key to Health. Alsaker.
114 HEALTH HINTS
Steamed carrots
Baked eggplant
Cabbage and celery ·salad
dressed with oil
Raisins and almonds.
Wednuday
Cooked brown rice with
cream .
Buttered beets
Spinach
Salad of asparagus tips on
lettuce with whipped
cream
Sweet pears.
Thtwsday
Baked potato
Steamed turnips
Carrots
Salad of lettnce, cucum-
bers and radishes, oil
dressing
Date ice cream.
Cauliftower with butter
sauce
Peas
Salad of lettuce, orange
and pineapple with
lemon mayonnaise
Apricot whip, with honey.
Wednesday
Vegetable broth
Egg omelet · •
Baked onions
Steamed green cabbage
Salad of lettuce and
French endive with
lemon mayonnaise
Baked apple or figs.
Thwsdtsy
Cream of celery soup
Cauliftower
String beans _.-
Salad of raisinsand grated
carrots with dressing of
lemon juice and oil
Sweet pears.
Pridtly
PridtJy
Broiled mushrooms
whole wheat toast
Steamed brocmli.
on Vegetable soup
Broiled~
Tomatoes and .,_
spiuacla .
Green·peas
SUGGESTIVE MENUS US
Salad of lettuce, shredded
cabbage and celery with
lemon and oil dressiDg
Sliced bananas.
. SalwtltJy
Whole wheat raisin toast
Caulifiower
Buttered beets
Salad of grated carrots on
lettuce leaves with oil
Malaga Grapes.
SUNDAY
Dinner
Relish of ripe olives and
celery hearts
Vegetable soup
Roast chicken
Spinach
String beans
Solatl of- sliced tomatoes
on lettuce leaves with
lemon~~ ·
Peach·ice cream.
Salad of orange and
grapefruit on lettuce
with lemon mayonnaise
Baked.apple with cream.
Saturtltsy
Cream of asparagus soup
Parsley omelet
Rutabagas
Steamed onions
Salad of lettuce with pi-
mento dressing
Stewed figs.
SUNDAY
Supper
Whole wheat muffins
Steained carrots and peas
Salad of lettuce and as-
J,aragus tips with dress-
ing of whipped cream
and oil
Raisins.
SHORT BIBLIOGRAPHY1
WOllKS oF DR. WILLrAK How.AllD HAY:
Hay System News, Monthly, $3.00
Kitchen Food Chart, $\.00
Medical Millennium, $1.00
New Health Era, $2.00
Official Cook Book, $5.00
Pocket Guide, $1.00
OrBn IMPORTANT WoRKS:
Acid-Base Balance of the Body, BiSoDof Co.
Advantages of Raw Food, Dr. Julian P. Thomas.
$1.00 •
Dr. Beat, or More -About the Unseen, E •.M. S.
$1.50
Grape Cure, Mrs. Johanna Brandt. $1.00
Fasting Book, Mrs. Johanna Brandt. $2.00
Fasting and Man's Correct Diet, R. B. Pearson.
$175
Fasting for the Cure of Disease, Dr. Linda B.
-Hazzard..
Fasting, Hydropathy and Exercise, Dr. F. Oswald.
ffindu Dietetics, Sri Deva Ram Sukul. $3.00
House-of Wonder, E. M. S. $1.00
How to Live, Prof. Irving Fisher &Dr. E. L. Fisk.
- $1.50 .• .
1 YaY be orderal from The Curtiss Philosopbic Book Co.,
3510 Oacbec St.. N. W., Washiogtou, D. C.
118
SHORT BIBLIOGRAPHY 117
Master Key to Health, Dr. Rasmus Alsaker. $3.00
Nature Cure, Dr. H. Lindhlahr. $2.00
One Thing I Know, E. M. S. $1.00
Ortho Dietetics, Henry James Broughton.
.Perfect Sight Without Glasses, Dr. W. H. Bates.
$3.00
-Royal Road to Health, Dr. Oms. A. TyrrelL $1.50
Sun Diet Cook .Book, Anna Lana Alsaker. $2.00
True Science of Living, Dr. E. H. Dewey.
Universal Health Restorer, Veni Cooper-Mathieson.
$1.50
Vitality, Fasting and Nutrition, H. C. Carrington.
INDEX
A
Abscesses, 39.
Acid, boric. 70; lactic. 24;
stimulated, 69-
Ac:idosis, 61.
Adjustments, DeCCSIU7. 6.
Age, old, 43. .
AtkaliDity, 61.
AJmhol, n.
Anger, 88.
Appendicitis, relieved, 6;
treatment for, 38;
Appetite, 46.
Algameats, uo, 31, 9L
Arthritis, 39.
Astrology, 85.
Aura, 104.
B
Bathiag, 11; S1Dl-, 12.
B~ Magaitw, quoted, 96.
llliokiug, 70.
Breath, C;!Jming, 15; CleaDs-
iug, 17; Spiritualizing, 21;
Transmuting, 7A»; Vdaliz-
iug, 19.
~ulk, needed,·24.
c
-Catarrh, 43.
~ feediag of, 47, 53.
Clewing, 54.
118
Oliropradic. adjustments, 7.
Classes, humaD, 41.
Colds,36.
Colitis, 39. • ..
Colon, spastic, 29.
Colonic. hlgb, 29.
Combinations, food, 6Z-3.
Compatibility, of foods, 6Z-3.
Constipation, 23; of ccUs, 24.
Cooking, 66.
Crisis, 3Z.
D
Deever, Dr., quoted, 75.
Defects, structural, 2.
Diet, reducing, 56; return to,
33-4. Dr. Hay's, 109, 110,
111;.
Diet tmd SeK, quoted, 45.
Discipline, 103.
Disease, definition, 4; acute,
36.
Determination, 93.
Doctors, 63, 75.
E
Eating, habits of, 64.
Emotions, 78, 86.
Endurance, tests of, 46.
Enema, ~t, 34; hiP. 29;
preparation, 30-1;. simple,
28;
INDEX 119
Exercise, 8-9.
Eyes, 69.
Faitb, 102.
Fasting, 47.
F
Fat, reduc:iog, 56.
Fear,86.
Fluids, needed, 25.
Flush, citrus, 37.
Food, Olapt. V, 40: combiaa-
tions, 109.
Foods, classification of, 42;
mmpatibillty of, 6Z-3: laxa-
tive, ~7; processed, 65;
· raw,66.
G
Gnc:e, at meals, 51.
H
Habits, 13, 27.
Hay-fever, 39.
Health, 2.
Helpers, invisible, 97.
Heredity, 59.
Hindu Dietdiu, quoted, 41, 57.
HDU1 to Live. quoted, 34, 44,
73.
Hunger, 49.
'Harry, SO.
I
Idiosynaacies, 40.
IDcompatibillties, 60.
Induction, psyc:bk, 95.
InflueDces. planetaQ', 85.
lnflueqza, 39.
Insomnia,·71.
Invocation, 12.
lmmunity,3.
Irish, quoted, 35.
1
Jealoasy, 90.
]ors,91.
K
Knee-chest posture, 30.
L
Laughter, 90.
Life, the One, 99.
M
Meat, 52.
Menus, 110, 11L
Jlesmge of A.qutJf'iiJ, quoted,
21, 78.
lli1k, goat's, 55; raw, 55.
Mind, attitude .of, 85; in-
fluences of, 77-8; laws of, 81.
·. N
Neam:m.-Theresa, 83.
Niill Health Eril, quoted, 32,
36, 39, 74, 75. .
Nudism, 13.
0
Odor, body, 26. .
Operations, 39, 74.
Optimism, 93.
Origin, of mau, 106.
Ortlaodietetic1. quoted, 1Z, 54,
57.
Overwork,92.
p
.Pac:lc. hot or cold, 37.
~2.
Palliatives, 2.
PalmiDg, 69.
120 INDEX
Paralysis, infantile, 38.
Passions. stimulated, 44.
Patapar paper, 67.
Periods, women's, 45, 93.
Peristalsis. 23.
Plan, the Hay, 33.
Pneumonia, 39.
PraDa, 19. -
Prayer, effect of, 3, 97; Divine
:Mother, 21; Healing, 99;
:Morning, 104; Realiza-
tion, 21.
Proteins, 112; stimulate pas-
sions, 44; vegetable, 52.
Ptyalin, 60.
Paise rate, 16.
Purge, 32.
Purgatives, 29.
Putrifaction, 23.
P7orrhea. 54.
0
Quiet time, 102.
R.
Radionics, 76.
Reactions, 91, 105.
Retllt~~~ of the Liflitlt1· Dead.
quoted, 96.
Recreation, 92.
Rec:arrenc:e, 7.
Regeneration, 84.
Reincarnation, 84.
Resentment, 89.
Restoration,S.
s
.Salt, 57.
Sciatica, 6.
Self, the Real, 107.
Serums, 74.
Siegmeister, Dr. quoted, 45.
Sight, 69.
Sleep, 71.
SDU1e, 94.
Soda, 62.
Specialists. 75.
Starch, 53.
Stigmata, 82.
Sub-conscio role of 79;
. ~
tram, Z'/.
Sugar, 55.
Suggestion, 82.
Surgery, 74.
T
Tables, food, 109.
Teeth, 83.
Test, guidance, 103.
TbaDks, 51.
Thirst, 49.
Thought, 77.
Tobacco, 73.
Tonsilitis, 75.
Typhoid, 39.
v
Vac:ciaation, 73-4.
Vitality. footnote, 44.
Vitamines, 67.
Yoiee of Isil. quoted, 17, 73.
w ..
Walking, 9.
WeiPt, reduc:tion, 55.
The Fellowship of the
Order of Christian Mystics
A non-sectarian spiritual JDOYeiDeDt for the promulgation
of a Cosmic and all-inclusive spiritual philosophy which
gives a satisfactory and scientific explanation of every
phase and condition of life both here and hereafter.
Christian in ethics, yet non-sectarian and mdw:rsal.
llontbly lessons and personal correspondence on aU vital
problems sent on the free-will offering basis.
If the teac:IUugs of the Onter~ in this wlume
have interested and bel~~ send for Descriptive -
Pamphlet. ·" -<;}
~-*..
F. HOMBR ~. B.S., M.D., Sec'y.
3511 Quebec S~~., Waahllqrton, D. C.
~~ ~· .
''THE CURTISS BOOKS"
-rhe Curtiss Boob"' Dispel the llista From llpticiam
The VOICE OF ISIS
A TEXT BOOK OF THE SPIRITUAL LIFE
A Veritable Compendium of Christian ~. Spiritual
Philosophy IIDd Esoteric BibJical Interpretation
Not cold, inteDec:tual essays, but vibnnt with sympathy• UDdentand-
iq and comfort for those facing life's trla1s and problems, ezpJaioiq
the reasons therefor ud bow to master them. Racfiant with prac:tical
help. Takes fear out of the Bible.
CONDBNSBD TABLB 011 CONTB11TS
I..ife's Duties and How to RecogDim ud Accomplish 'l'hem-'l'he
Cycle of FnlfiDmenL The European War Foreshadowed and CaDII!I
GlftD Two Yean Before It Begm-Degrees aDd Orden, and the
Celestial llierudde5-'l'be W'udom Religion-Conccmlng the Doc:triDe
of BeD File, Takes Fear Out of the Bibl&-'l'be ElcveDth Commaucl-
ment-Nan:otics, Alcohol and Psycbism-A Study of Earma-The
Self-The Doctrine of Avatara. A Clear Ezplallation of the Laws
Under Wbich the Christ May Be Expected to Manifest OD Earth ill
This Age, exposes the mistake of the maDY rbimants.---A Stndy of
Reincamation-The Sewn Pcnren of MID-A Bdef OutliDe of Jm»-
lution, both Man and Na~Tbe Sevenfold l.aW'-Tbe FmmatioD
of World Cllaiu-Purity, aDd the probJcm of ~a-The Origin of Mau,.
a clear ezplanation which reccmdles Fundamentalists and Libemls-
'l'he Symbol of the Serpent-Purification w. Deification-The Memory
of Past Lives, explains why 10 muy thlDk they have been peat ~JeJ­
sonages In the past-The Cycle of Necessity-The Path of AttaiDJDe!!t-
Earth'a Piner Fo~The Descent of the Light-The Two Tables of
Stone, or Woman's True Place and MJssion in Life-The Hea1iDg
Pla}rer, and bow to use it-How to Enter the SileDc:e-Natme'a Mystic
AlpbabeL A Study o( the Relation of Sound, Numbei, Color and
Form-'l'be Word Made FJesh-lllumination-'l'be Symbol of the Salt
. -Thou Shalt Not KiD, Covering the Whole ProbJcm of Meat EatiDg
-The Prayer of Ccmleaation-The Meauiug of the Symbol of the
Order. '
The VOICE OF ISIS
APPRECIATIONS
"Here we haw a wise book."-Pcmland Oreronia.
'"Is the most ft1uabJe, yes, the most practical of auy that has Come
UDder the observation of the revfewer."-JDIW News.
"A IDIIlftl of erudition. Practicai illstractfon accompanies wenmuoned
tiJeoey at every tum."-Thf OCUIU Rniew, London.
"Reveals with wuDderiul simp]idty, diredDess and conviDdog feme,
Chrlsti•nity as peza:iwd by the light of the Seaet W'ISdom!'-..tsoel
llt~psille, New York.
"It is Indeed an epoch-makhlg volume and almost every subject of
importaDce is treated ••• and elucidated beautifully. Verily those who
&c:al»t the autho~ iuterpretations • • • will be sfudmts of UDiftllll
ReJilion."--KGI.#GU .Jltlgtldlre, India.
· "iDg& Ideals are given upon sa: aDd geuen.t.fou, aDd the book is
~ted with a large toleraDc:e aDd Jovblg service towards advaDciDc
lmmauity."-Tie .Jltllkr Jlirul, Los ADgeJes.
"It Is the practbl ~lems of Bfe ••• that CODStitute Its use aDd
('01I!IDC!Mf it to every earnest student."-Tie.Pablie, Chicago.
"Aitopther, this is a book rich ln. thouaht aud auaestfoa."-Tie
.4..mca. Tieosolllm.
"'tcontains truth of the highest spJritua1 Older which the studeat of
Truth may readily lay bold upon."-unily, Kamas City.
' "Not ODiy has the book ftiY fambly fmpraaed me through Ita
common &eii5C way of tJ:eating subjects on wbic:h oa:a1tists ........m.ws
10 wild, but I haw almost invariably beard the IIDIC es:pftlliaa of
opiDfon from ot11ers who haw lead itl'-Bdiltn' Tie 0. B. Librrlr, ~
WasldDgton.
· "'UJidoubtedly the best that has appeared for some time • • • wrlltiea
ma style both simple aDd schoJarly."-NCf11101i Plolra Ttlll.
"l'he sreatest book s1uce The Seaet DoctdDe..._,_ B.
·-ne tint 8Dd OD1y book that giws me a feehg of complete atia-
factloD as I Je&Cl,"-lln. S. S. B. ·
"I bep It doae aud mad it as some lOtheir Bibles."-Jln. C. IV.
-For. me, ycnir book is the most lacluslve, popa)ar, ~
laDe aDd lwlanced, aDd satmated with that wuudafal aDd WUI
es&e~~a~ of undeDtandiDg, sympathy aDd low, whkb makes your bciak
alitllag frla4. Your spiritual pydtology is UDlquel ·It has openeil ~
fl1&"-P. R. German editioa, $3JIQ.
TilriUtlll Btlititns. 433 Pages, Bltibtwate llllles. Priu, 12.50
. - Gmrum Etlaitm, $3.00
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
Ha& a llelllle1 to Tic Vab of Iris, but ather a zapcmse to the
1qe11t caD for further and more advanced instruction conc:emillg the
pat 1lllleSt in world coDditioDS, and ~ solution. ·
Allo contaius a reasonable and scientific explallation of how and
wlaa and to whom the Son of Man will appear at the Second Collliq.
~ only satisfactory ezposition of this subject.
l;ONDENSBD TABLB OF CONTENTS
Tic Jl~llk Life---in nature, so in man--how to lad to ltimuB from
tile Inner world u we now react to the onter.-Tk Sip Aqf~~Jf'ifa­
docbine of cycles and aga.--the Sign of the Son of. Man in heavm.-
Ar~~ Ties. lk Ltul Days-cycles of Races and sub-races-meaniug of
"'tile ad of the world."-CCHBels arul Bdi,m-bow cosmic changes
atfec:t the Earth--the Sun-spot cycle and its effect-Halley's comet
usheled in Aquarian Age.-Tk Lmll of GrD1111i--how the ideal mani-
fests through the Law of Growth-the dynaspheric force.-BirliJ of
lk Nev~ Ar8'-the Water Bearel'-elllbodiment of the Christ-His
t......Jrinp--lacob arul ~meaniug of the tdckery-of Jacob's twelw
SOIJ5--tiYIIlbology of the Stan and Stripes-is America the seat of
the new rarel-Jltllkr7 arul llle JliiSII:t'l-llle&lling of mastery and
Jaow attained-feminine Jluten-the Great Wbite Lodge.-Jlolier
Barl~er alchemy-ller llf:ftD layeD--Origin of Insect pests and plant
bJiglab-elfect of btood llhed on battlefields.-Tie FDW Whub-use of
4 .. the BibJe-..comiDg c:ataciJsms.-Tie Time Johf-John the Bap-
tist, Jobn the Beloftd, John the Rnelator.-C'IIildml of Ia HOtUc-
ioU-the Prayer for Demonstration-protection from utral fon:a-
utral dJJII..-estral disea'M child lrainiug-attainlug materlal supply.-
Jitn~, Kfltlfll Tiy.rclf-divislons of man-laws of ~ncmtratlon
an the solar p1ems-tralnfng the subconscious mind-the supen:onsdous
-symbol of the carpentei'-Of Herod-the crudJbfon.-Ortlcrly Sctpmtt:C
-effect of order and disorder.-Tk S,;n,J of Lif~n for changes
.ID Jife-ase of the Masters' namrs..-Ufc WIJ110-Iaw of wave-motion
-dlytbm of the breath-tidal wava--«orms of emotlcm-magnetlc
wdations of the Earth.-Jic.rsarc of ''" s,Wa-meaning of the
ICII!ab-orfgln of the Order of Chrlstlan Mystie&--crypl beneath the
Sphfm..-T11c Sectmtl Woe-Jengtb of the four periods ~f the woe-
falle propbets.-n. Day of Judr~gns of His coming.-LnD of
Sllm~crific:e of the Sun in Nalum-ftlue of talisznaQ-value
of acr~Ace.-n. Stu, arul 111c Goat.....their symbology-the "other
alleep!'-Tic Jl~llk 0111--orfgln and function of the dan~ythmlc
motfoD In reJfglous servlces--symbo~ of C~Kle and Sun danc:es-
odgla of 1Jonfifts and the Maypoe-Dryads and Nafads.-The Dla-
•Dflll H_.,_,ormatfon of a diamcmd-fon:es obtahJed from a dia-
JDODd.-Tic Trw Priutl~ of pdest, hle!ophant, propbet-
1\feJcbfaedec and Jesus-how an Avatar~ manifests-His near advent-
)IUllal A-vatus 11r A'ftllhaa.--A New Tm-~Jasus• new.testameat
-rile Cartla Boob" Gbe a Bew Outlook on :r.tfe
The MESSAGE OF AQUARIA
-symbology of "the upper cbamber"-of blooci--Gf the brad aDd wiDe.
-crom.K Jor,._wanderiDg in the wiJdemes&.--dividing the watem-
Cl'OIISiuc.dry-shoci.-Tding Jcricio-s)'mbology of the ram's hon&-
why the walls fell.-Tie Vam Siow-Ludfer-distinction between Luci-
fer, Satan and the devD-Uuivenal Center of the Solar School-the
Luciferian School.-Faili tDUl WorU-Sun Initiation.-Jian-why
~ & ftd.-reJatioD of Man aDd Veuus-why the Bible & alJegoricaL
-Tle Spirilual Bilii-pJac:e of the spiritual birth--the spiritual or
N"JI'IIWI8kaya bocly.-Tie Miglly A•gd-"this same Jesus shaD so come
in like IIWIIIer"-Bis method of appearauce--coDditioDS ~ow
to ftCOgDize Bim.-Tle Soul'1 Gtlerdoa-lesson of each Earth-life-
object of bu:aruatioD-val of ceremonies, ohservantes. diet, etc.-the
~rei from heaven.
APPRECIATIONS
"AD admirably coDIZived IUid weD produced w1ame, which shod! do
much to increase still further the wide cirde of stuclmts to whom the
Chriito-Theosophy of Tie OrtUr of C1lrillill11 Jlys~la makes 10 stroug
an appeaL"-Tle Ocewa RflfMvl, London.
"Have only got about one-fourth through with "The Message of
Aquaria,' but the book is 10 good that I want to put ODe in each of our
pubJic liblaries."-R. 11. w.
""1'1'e book makes lntenstiDg ft&diDg. • • • '.l'beR two authon are ap.
parently authorities.•--&~~ Frtmdsco JOlll'fUil.
"'l1aese boob are not claptrap utterauas of shallcnr miDds; they are
deep IUid siucere."--OallaJid Tribtmfl.
"Quite apart from their great lllellllap to the world, lk ...,.., of
lldual lfttnl1letlge elaey toflltJift IUid the ~ ligl ~ o/
litflrgry finili, together with perfect simplicity of JaDguage ud style,
make this side of these works (the Curtiss boob) without a jarrJug
note."-A. A. B., Loudon.
"What a tmneadous work you have accomplishedl Bow lmmemeJF
ImportantI Your works must certaiDly become more widely bcnm aD
over the worldI 'lbe highest spirituality bratha through ewry am-
teuce. I am amazed at the Immense spidtual valae I have diicovacd
ud am daily discoveriDg in them. They are Soul-upliftiug to an in-
credible degreeI How blessed you are to receive these spJeDdols from
the IDfiDite Cousciousness direct! You are two Souls spedally fa'f01114
by BeavenI W'Jth the greatest eDem. ud admbaticm, your fdcDd..._
Bllrtm Albm y,.,. tkr NGilla, author of Ia lie Stmdf1417, etc.
Ctn81leH lrulu. Fiftla ~. Pria, $2.50
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
"This worlt is not cmly the most compreheusive and authoritative
hook on the significance and 11iri'fllll imcrtntatitm of IJIIIJiben tlffll
·~ols, but its 40 cbapten contain mon: uew, n:liab1e and spiritually
helpful iDformation on numbers, letters, the Tarot cards, the c:ilde,
trlangle, square. pentacle, Seal of Solomon, the Commandments. iDclud-
iDg the esoteric mterpretatioD of many Bib1e and clas1ic myths hen:to-
fon: litt1e UDdentood, also Maso~ Symbols, the Trinity, tho EJohlm.
uge]s, mythology, evolution, cycles, bdtiatioDS, etc., thaD many l!eP'"
uate boob on.. those subjects.''-Btlltitaore Af8CJ'iaul. •
Not a dry mathematical tleatise, nor mere specaJatlw tJieods.
IDustrations and t:tm~ from IIGture at every tum.
Shows "That an peuoual experiences an: expressions of the one
Gn:at Law manifesting aa:IOidiDg to mathematical priuciples, deJDoD.
stlatiDg that the unfoldment of the godlike pollllibiHties iDhereDt mada
Soul follows, step by step, the same older of eveJ&ts that is followed
iD the Cosmos.''
CONDBNSBD TABLE OF CONTBNTS
The OriciD of Numerical Systems-the Symbol of the Circle, Ser-
pent, Xi1t ,and Qurch-tbe Druids and R:yperbon:aaa-Romul T01RII
of In:laDd-IudiaDS' Use of Feathen-the CUde as the Egg aml tho
Cat-Origin of the Decimal System-Origin of the Druid Bollfirea
and Maypole-Why 1 Comes Fhst-.the Letter Alei,._Tu Jfl(ller-
Origiu of CoDStaDtiue's Symbol-the Magic Wand and Crozier-Boul-
marriage-Key to the UDivenal Law of Sa-the Letter Bell-the
Hili Priuteu--JakiD and Boas-So1ar Cross-Veil of Isb-the 3 Gn:at
Star Strams-Origiu of the TrlaDg1e and the TriDity-Diapam of
Law of Karrlaae and Divo~Tripod of Pythian Priestes.t Noah and
His Sons-Prophets iD the Fiery Fumace-Power of the Spoken Word
-"Army of the Voice"-'l'be Letter Gi.ei-Tu E•~ of
the Squan:, aDd Closs, Swastib-the 4 Beasts--the 4 W'mD-the 4
Gospels-the 4 RiveiS of Edeu 40 Yean iD the WiJdnn=w---40 Da,a'
Fut-the 4 Castes of M'aDkind-4 Stages of cmtizatio....,.. Forms of
Govemmeut, the Jut of which we am now entering-the Letter Dllldi
-Tie E•~Differeuce between Sabbath and SUDday-Role of
S.tum-5 PoiDted Stu-Belsbanan Vlsiou-CJairvoyuce Not a 6tb
Seuo-Symbol of the Cloc:odiJ&-tbe 5 TalismaDS of the Sikb-ADtl-
gouus' Vision of the PeDtacJe-Effect of a Reftrsed Symbol-the Letter
HI-TIN Po,......olferillg Up llaae--6 Da71 of CreatioD-6 Da,a of
Labor-Number 6 and the ElemeutaJs-...the Letter Vt~u-Tbe MJSterJ
of Creation-the 7 Elohlm-Music of the Sphemt-Colors of the Musi-
cal ~Apollo's L~ Pipes of Pan-the Dumber of GestatioD-
the 7-fold Earth Chain-the 7 Races and Sub-races-tbe 7-fold Cou-
atractioD of MaD-the 7 Cydes of IJfe-tbe 7-fo~ ,
:Mme. Blavatsky and Number 7-the 7 ai1iialiS-fD IDilbir fD
~ 7-Pointed Star-Seal of Solomou-l..egeD4 of the MiD&- f·
teur-of ~ 7 PrfDdples of Man deady ~ 7_
The KEY TO THE UNIVERSE
Pleiades and the 7 Rishis-Myth of Orion-of Niobe-the Letter ZGirt
Tie Cisriot-the Number of Evolution--the Dctave--the 8th Sphem
-the Dweller on the 'Dm:shold-VaUey of the Shadow of Death-the
Letter Heth-JruUce--the Number of lnitiation-ApoDonius of TyaDa ·
-Meditation-Genii of the Hours-Higher Initiatiou-Plato and Num-
ber 9-the 9th Hour-the 9 Muses-the Mystery of Number 9-
Symbology of a Rope-the 144,ooo-the Letter Teth-Tie Hermil-
the Number 10-the Number of Completion-the Decad-the Sun-
Abram and Sarai-Zodlac: -Formerly had ODiy 10 Sips-Diaglam of
the Group-Soul-Meaning of the 10 Lepers-the Letter YOtJ-Th
Wleel of I.Jfe-the Joy of Completion-Key-note of Creation-Geo-
logic Eru-Number of CompJeted Earth, Man and Super-man.
APPRECIATIONS
"'n this book all the lore of centuries that has gathered about the
number from 1 through 10 is set forth with a pedect wealth of
detaiL •• This book is easily tie t110ft complet. llflll IGtbfadory
hriDgiDg together of information that is scattered in hundreds of wl-
~ not readily accessible."-Tu Bofttm Poll.
"It is the mast fasdDatiDg book I eva- read."-De Casseres, Nev~
'Yorll s-.
"It certainly makes out a good brief for the significance of JlUID-
ben, and one all mpporkll by fiiDtU.UUU llflll fiJfllie. ••• It COD•
taiDs much besides the JDgenious showiDg of the curious correspoudmce
of numbers.''-slrinrfield Republiaul.
"An elaborate spiritual intelpretation of numbers and symbols which
supplements Middle Age deliverances In this field Vliti illrutrtJUoru
/rOfiJ fiiOilml sdeat:e, and comes near to re1egatiDg Pythagoras to the
shelf as a back number•••• The treatise presents an amount of wen
collec:ted information which no student of numbers and their form
symbols can afford to neglec:t. ••• The general aim is both ethical and
zeligious.''-Bolttm Heraltl.
"It Is deep and profound. As one goes into this message of phi-
fosophy 'one becomes vitally interested, and even awed."-Porllmltl
Oregtmitm.
"The person who bas only an amused contempt for this sort of
thing fllill yel fiatl II gripping mlere.rl in contemplating wbat it has
produced."-TIIe SMI Francisco Chrtmicle.
"Goes deepl7 into the Dlu1osoph)o of numbers and should be of
interest to a1I students of symbolism...OO FreefiJMtmry••• • Not a
mathematical dissertation, but replete with oc:cult information."
-MtUtmic Nn~~ Age Magazine.
''Easily the most complete and satisfac:toQr bringing together of
• • • all the lore of centuries tbat has gathered about numbers •••
set forth with a perfect wealth of detail."-Bo.rltm Po.rl.
Profusely illustrated with ten full-page plates, portrait pf Mrs.
c~. IDliD7 diagrams, tables, etc.
Complete intles. Sixth llflll 'Utli.red Bdilitm. Price 12.50
The KEY OF DESTINY
A Sequel to Ta K~ 1D ta UflhnrN
This volume presents time rewlatlcms of aupmne lmport&Dce, ClOD•
c:emiDg the origin of the Zodiac, the Labors of Berl:uJes, and the
relation of the SUD Myth to the ChrfstfaD reJjgicm.
Why is the Zodiac divided into 12 sfgDS ud DOt some other number?
Why should there he on),y four elemeDts, earth, air, fire, water? Wh7
llhould each have three manifestatlcms ID the Zodiac?
AD the myths and allegories involvillg 12, such u Jacob ud his 12
sous, also the 12 Disciples of Jesus, and the 12 _
_months of the year,
etc., are all based upon the 12-fold divisicm of the Zodiac. But
nowlere ita ~rim have we found &DY philosophical and sc:ieDtific rea-
BOD 111l7 tile tlWisiOfl itato 12 tiHII cloua, save ID this volume. ~
a momentous discovery.
Why should the peculiar animals used he applied•to the Zodiac when
the forms of the coDSteDatioDS they embzac:e in no way resemble or
even suggest such &Dimalsl The ftUOn is found onJ,y fn this volume.
Vitally nec:esury for all students of utrology.
Nowlere ita all laerattn CaD the .IDterpretation of the 12 Labors
of llercules he found. In this volume the authors not ollly give the
interpretation, but coDDed each labor with its proper zodiacal sign.
This one feature might well form a valuable book ID itself.
The univenal SUD Myth hu hem the basis of the life-D&Datiw
of every SUD God or spiritual Light Bearer leDt to humanity. This
'\'Illume shows that this is more thaD a myth ud why it is a spiritual
-reality. These chapters are a diftCt challenge to the so-called "higher
critics" of the Bible and IS t:Dfllllde relutGtlon of tllelr cliel daltlu
against the Bible storr. Of great imllortaDce to all students of com-
J)&!Iltive religion, to mmistas &Dd to BlbJe students generally.
These are onJ,y a few of the many reveJatioDs of this truly WODderfu1
vo~~ .
CONDBNSBD TABLB OF CONTENTS
Number 11, a New Begimllng, the cycle of the advanced Dfsc:lpJe-
the Legend of Parsifal-the 11 year Astronomical Cycle-the 11 year
SUD Spot Cycle-Gems ud the Zodiao-Use of a person's N&me-
Number-Reincamation aDd T!allsmatation-the PermaDeDt Atom-
Physical Immortality-Attitude for Healing-Cause of ~ He-
brew LetteB-the 144,()00-the 11th letter, K11IJI..-.diaaraml of the
Cycle of Manifestation. ·
· Number 12, the Manifested UDiverse-Geometrlcal Law why the
Zodiac is 12 fold-Diagram of Zodiao-the AquariaD ~Why were
- the disciples called -"Fishers of Men"l--Origin of the 12 ~
12 Stones from Jordan--the 12 Dlsdples-12 ICDights of King Arthur-
the Last Supper-the 12 Baskets of Bread-Jesus at 12 yeaD-When
u lncamation Completel-IDcamatioD in Various ~Mystery of
the Gobi Desert-12 Hebrew Simple LetteD-12 Body Salts-Jesus, the
PisceaD Avatar. .
"The Curtiss Boob"' Satisfy Both Head and Heart
The KEY OF DESTINY ·
The 12 Labon of llen:ules-ReJation of Berc:uJes and Jacot-Kill-
lng the Nemean Lion-Killing the Hydra-capturing the Kezyneian
Doe-Capturing the Erymanthfan Bou-CieaDiDg the Augean Stables
-KiDing the Man-eating Birds ~f Stympbalo5--Capturing the C1etan
BuB-Capturing the Man-eating Males of Diomedes--Seizing the
Gbdle of Hippolyte--Capturing the Oxen of Geryoneus-the Three-
headed Hell Hound-Obtaining the Golden.Apples of llesperides-Cba
from 10 signs to 12-Wrestling with Antaios-Mysteries of E1eusis.
Number 13-Why CoDSidered Unlucky-13 at a dinner-Its Real
Significan~The Savior God-Mystical Meaning of the Bible-Higher
Critics muted-the Life of Jesus-Number of Juda&--30 pieces of
Silver-Meauing of Playing Card&--13 Apparitions of Jesus.
Number 14-Phantoms of the Mind-Hawaiian Sacred Shadt-Levia-
than-Jcmah-Use of Perfumes.
Number IS-Blood of the Lam~ Devil, How Created-Origin
of Diseases-Race Karma-Power of Thought-Dweller on the Threshold
-Hour of Initiation-the Order of the 15-Why Established-Con-
tacting the Masten-the Holy Grail-Message of the Sphiu.
Number 16-VJ.Ctory-Nature Spirit&-Encbantments.
Number 17-Disposing Intelligence-the Celestial Hierarc:hies-144,000
-Value of Horoscopes-Diagram of the Hieran:bies.
Number 18-The Second Initiation-Black :Magicians-the $ Sign
-8ymbol of the Swan or Pelican-Number 666 and the Beast.
Number 19-Number of the Sun-Twice-born-Sun Eclipse every 10
years-the Hyperborean Land-Druid Colleget-Sun Initiation-the
Philosopher's Ston~nter in the Spleen-the Swastika-Equilibrium
of the Sexes.
Number 20-CeJestial lnitiato11-Power of the Christ-Reason for
Spiritual Development .in Deformed Bodfes-Description of the PiDeal
Gland and the Pituitary Body-the Feminine Ray.
Number 21-lncamations of the Higher Self-Mme. Blavatsky'a last
Incamation-Spiritual Majority-the Crocodile.
· Number 22-The New Jerusalem-Squaring the Cirde-Law of Co-
opention-Aquarian Age-Prophecies of Diasten-Establishing New
Conditions-the Woman's Age-Taking Vows.
APPRECIATIONS
"They have colJec:ted a positive wealth of material about the II)'Dl··
boHsm of numbers. ••• You will find--here a IDsilitle IRIJrflry ot iJ&..
1~ abOut how to climb to the ultimate attainment "-Tk Bos011
Pose. ·
Tea full-pap plates, portn.lt of Dr. Curtiss, many diapme, etc.
FomiJ Btlitltm. 322 Paga. CDfiJilde Iflllts. Priu $2.50
'"The Curtiss Boo~ Solve the Riddle of Death-and After
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DOES THE PERSONALITY SURVIVE DEATH?
Is communication poss"bld Is there a safe and legitimate method?
'l1lis book gives a clear, scieDWic, satisfying and comfortiDg explaDation
of all after-death conditioDs, IDcludiDg a clear explaDation of the
problems Uftsolwtl by "RDymtnlll''; "Ldlnl /rom 11 Living Dead
IIan"; ,.Plltietu:e Woni," de. A mtioual, scientific, all-indusive philos-
ophy, not a mete mediumistic report.
Wastes no time with elabomte proofs of life after death. Written
for those who already bow It to be a fact md desire authoritative
instruction as to the details. &plaiDs all methods of communication
with the Invisible.
Four added chapters on Protecting Powers-Independent Commu-
nications, exampl&-The Aviator's Gteat Adveutme, a Message from
Quentin Roosevelt-The Annunciation-A Message from LiDcolD-A
Prophecy of the Aquari&D Age-A Message from Saturn-The Garden
of PJ:ayen-The Message of the Sphim;-The Curtain-Aviator
returns.
You will find aD your questions answered In this volume.
CONDBNSBD TABLB OF CONTBNTS
Sc:ieDWic proofs-Ri\-en of Life aud Death-the Seveu Realms-
Realm of Rdlectioo-the Astral Doub~e After-Death Sleep--the
Awakeolng of the Agedi After Battle-Astral Helpers-IDdiaDs as
Guides-Earth-bound Spkits-the Law of Thought and Desire-Diseases
Due to Reflex Psychic Conditious--ClothiDg, Houses, Amusements-
the Method of Materialization-Souls Seeking IDcamaticm-Coodi-
tioos Around the Prospective Mother--the Han of Lethe-Why We
Forget the Higher Realms at Birth-Law of Kaoifestation-the Outer
llarkness-''Weeplng aud Wailing and Gnashing of Teeth"-Masses
of Color, PerfUJDe!IJ Sounds-How the Flowers Are Colored-Thought-
forms md IDveutioDS--the Pattern Museum-Aeroplane Models aud
Other IDveutions to Come--Obsasing Entities-Psychic Cause of
Dnmkemless-Eumples md the Cure-Crimes of "Irresistible Impulse"
-Lustful Temptations-Control of Sex Desires-Dual and Multiple
Personalities-Loving Friends and Hetper.-St. Paul's Injunction to
"Try the Spirits"-So-c:aJled "Lost Souls"-the Dweller on the Threshold
-Sad Fate of the Suicide-Elemeot&J.-the Fairies, Nature Sprites-
Their :Messages and Prophecies-How Gold is Formed-Psyc:hic Realms
-Diagrams of the Astral World-Death of the Astral Body-spirits
who "Progress to Higher Spheres"-the "Hall of Leaming"' aud the
Gteat Schools-the Gteat White Lodge-Work. of Mme. Blavatsky
Continues-Independent Methods of Communion-Telepathy, Clairvoy-
auce, Clairaudience, ClairseDtieDce, Intuition, Inspiration, Theophaoy,
Avesha-Differenc:e Between Independent aud Subjective Kethods-
"Spirit Control"-5ubjective vs. Ecstatic Tlaoce-Materiallzatioo-
Tiumpet SpeakinJ-the Ouija Boud, Eumples of Its Deceptions aDCl
REALMS of the LIVING DEAD
DangeiS-Sir Oliver Lodge's Wamfng u to Automatic Writing-The
Telepathic Method, Bible Eumpla-St. Paul's Directious to AU Chris-
tians-the Astral Chill vs. the Spiritual Fire, Chill or Thrill-Protec:tiDg
Power&-Negative w. Positive States-Enoch and the Doctrine of
Translation-Ak.ashic Records-four added chapten of Independent
CommunicatioD&-The Aviator's Grat Adventure, a Message from
Quentin Roosevelt-The .Amlundati(.O-A Message from Lincoln-A
Prophecy of the AquariaD Av,t-A Message from Satum-the Garden
of Prayem-The Message of the Sphim:-The Curtain.
. You will find :your qaestloDS 8DSWeled iD this volume.
APPRECIATIONS
"We can very warmly recommend this volume-By far tie moll
IIIIWIIIUtl booi em tie ltlb/«1.-Kfliderbodeer Press, .AlbaDy, N. Y.
"'t is the Christian hereafter that is descn"bed with the cJassificatfon
of the Astral World em a st:ia~Ufic bGils."-Nct~~ Yori Titlsu.
"Distinctively allied with the Bible ••• really of essential value."-
Sirittgfieltl Re~
"One of the most valuable passages of the book, and a MJZiy utabZ.
t:tndributio• to tie ntbjed, Is on the treatment of druDkuds and the
111.ture of alcohoL"-Toromo Sfmllay World.
"We heartily :recommend the chapter on Tie Dun Realm• •••
There Is much other useful advice and knowledge given, such u
reguds suicides and the dangers of (subjective) mediumship. The
chapten on elementals and fairies are extremely fnteftltiDg, and alto-
gether our friends the Curtisses have given us a wry "alfiiJbZ. undrih-
tiem for occult study."-Editor of Asoti Jlagaline.
"A pat deal of exceedingly useful advice Is given to people reganl-
ing their relation to their friends who have passed over. It Is partic-
ulariT desirable that in these times of death and sorrow peo_Ple s1Joul4
wfMIIilitsr fl1ilh ecmtlitiofu of life tm the other silk of the wiL
-Torcmto SfMidoy World
"A saner treatise on the After-Death life would be difficult tG
find. • • • The Authors are perhaps world-famous for their teac:hinp.
and this work should enhance their already great reputation••••
Over 300 pages of sound knowledge and advice. • 4 • The space at
one's disposal cannot possibly do juslice to a work of this caliber,
and those wbo would delve deeper into this subject should not fail
to read this book." The Oeetlll RnMal (London). '
Can You Aft'ord to Remain Ignorant on Thfa VltaD,y
Important Sabjectl
Sislh Etlilicm. With Nn11 .A.ppmdis em Nareolie1 GJitl Praye,-1 of
The 0. C. M. $2.50.
THE TRUTH ABOUT EVOLUTION
and tluJ BIBLE I
A ~~ew aud fllmafDatfng ccmcept of evoluilcm.
Revolutlo~Wf yet iJisDJrfu views of the whole Garden of Edm
story. A 11CW mterpretatlcm Of the factOII~both aides of the
comroveny and a rtJtiorull IJtuU for tiN •· of ftli&lon aDd
l!denc:e; of the FuDdameDta6sts aDd the I.ibenJs.
Profound, yet dear aDd simply apn:ssed. Scfentffically accurate, yet
DOt tiresomely statistical or UDduly technical. VibraDt with deep spirit-
ual undentan.iiug and penetzatiDg iDsight into ultimate naJitfes aDd the
fulldamentals of both causation aDd DJa.Difestatlon.
Expuds the mental horizon. Satisfies the head, yet thrDis the heart.
A pasp of this book will eDabJe cme to maintain Ids lltaDd m&DY.
company. Answers all CluestioDS. ·
Covers an p1wes, bot1i bibJical aDd sdentltie.
Chapten Oil Scienu, what It has proved as to the evolutloD of f011111.
JltJterlallna. Not a soUDd philosophy. Acxept Its facta, but not Its
CODCiusiODS. Jlaif~ Necc:ssity of a pattern &Del how material-
IRd. EDmpJes. CR11tltn1. The fiDt Adam aetlkd. the accoDd JDr'fiWl.
Not the descmdants of apes aud why. Evolution DOt a mecbanical
process. ~:tual radiCH.ctivity. Ad4mIJfldEw. Notparents of alL
How aDd the separation of the sezrs took place. Woman's place
and duty. Sez appeal. Gtrtlea of Bde,._ In all rellgio111. No such
p)ac:e m:n found. Mealllng. Trus in tiN G4rtlen. Meaning of their
lralt. Why banished? TIN Serlefll Power. Why used as a symbol?
Sn not lmpme. The Ktmtllllbli-force, effect on spinal cord aDd braiD.
Ud7 U. lhllllil7. Tie Ttllaha "'"' Flui. True marriage made In heaven.
ObJect of marriage. Trial and compaulouate marriaga. SupplemeDtary
chapten on God, The lmtJI• oJ God, aDd Bmmtmfld. .
APPRECIA.TIONS
•A DeW c:cmceptlon of evolution." NITII Yorll Tltul.
"A DeW JnterPmatfon of the factors c:1almed by both aides In tbe
CODtroveny over evolution aDd the Bl"ble." Detroit Pre• Pre#.
"'The fiDdiDp of sdeDce are well stated.• RichmoDd Tfmu-Dls/Niki.
"A DeW aDd eD:ighteDIDg coDtn'butlon. ••• ContaiDs a profound dla-
.cussion of the con8ict between sdmce aDd reli&lon aDd olers an In-
teresting aplaDatlon." SpobDe Cllrtnrlt:U. .
"'!be writers ~nably deplore the drift toward anlmaBsm, &lid
·they wish to relnforat the ddft to spirituality." Boston Tnuuall'·
"Written m a way to hold the lnterat." Od1Grc4 Trilnaw.·
"The place of woman as the comp'frment of man Js clemoDstlatcd.•
ColumbUs DlsttJtdl.
"'The story of Eden and the modern soda1 problema lnvolwd are dis-
cussed at lcDgth and with much iDtmstlDc CODUDeDt." Buffalo COflricr-
Bz~RU. '
"Written In simple. dear laDpap the book gives a striking impres.
lfon of the process ol evolut1oD • • • Jn which man shares PD an plaDes.
n Is a aource of u:a~~n to be wdcomed by aD such as :to111
aDd thirst for an of the UDity of an life and to whom
-The Card•• Boob" mamfne blbUcal aDepda
the Bible so far lwi remaiDed obscure." Editor, Corule t1 CDflle, Paris.
"The Curtisses in this volume have cast upon this subject a search·
light of profound spiritual perception, br.iDgiug light to many things
heretofore hidden. The book is splendidly written, a rich mine of infor-
mation, and we advise each one of our readers to obtain this valuable
and much-needed tteasure volume." Editor, Tile Aquarlma Age.
"Written with simple clarity and directness and reveals the profound
thoUght as weD as the ccmstructive tetigion of the co-authors." Bfll-
letltt, Naticmal League of Americ:aD Pen Women.
"The old JmowJedge fs traDsfigured by the new and IDsplred concep-
tion. Instead of the Jetter which kDleth, ·we are givm food for the'
srowth of the souL Editor Psycllc Sdeftu, London. ·
"You may take your Bible literally or otherwise, but you are bouud
to find Tie Tnai AbDIII Bvolr#itm tmtl tie Bible a RimulatiDg and
thought~provoking book. • • • The sort of book that can he picked
up and 'dipped into' anywhere-iDteDS readable from the first page to
the last." Editor, OutiU Digut.
"The latest work from the iDsplrluao pen of these two highly special-
. !zed students of the Sc:rlptures, iDd the psychology of the Spirit, WW.
aD its symbolism brought down to earth, and presented in laDguage
both simple and fmpreuive. • • • This book fs commeuded to aD who .
are interested Jn thiDp of the Spirit and who are striving to widen and.-
deepen their uncle1Standing of symbology." Editor, Kft0fl1inr·Peolle.
"We are always glad to see a new book by the Curtisses appear at ·
our desk. We stop work at once and read it, for the several boob
Issued by these gifted authom thus far have always been not only
helpful but of unusual merit. • • • . We have enjoyed it. We have
profited by it. The dean, -,rholesome, sane, logical phDosophy em-
bodied CBDDot faD to lmptess comtructively. We af&rm that it is dis-
tinctly good stuff." Editor, Jl'!:."1".1·
"The study of the Bible in the light of the above views ought to ~
c:ouzap every thiDldDg Christian to a more rational and scientific view
of tetigion aDd must satisfy both his intellect and his heart... • We
look to this book therefore as of profOUDd use and fnterat to an truly
religious." Editor, Tie KttliGIIJ. India.
•An addition to the weD-bon 'Curtiss Boob' Is sure of a welcome
· from many readers. • • • Much of the spnbolism of the BibJe.-.eud
DUtlcuJarly of the creation story in Genesfs-..ls aplained in au 1lluml..
b&tiDg style. • • • The chapters dealing with the sex problem and the
true ~ of marriage • • • wiD no doubt prove helpful to 1111.117
people who are groping for truth amid an the conftictiDg theories
preached today ••• will Inspire and upBft aD who are able to appre-
hend it." Tie OCCIIU .Rnlkw, Londoaa. .
. "It Is always &· pleasure to receive a new book for review from Dr.
and MIS. F. Homer Curtiss, for the reason that their writings are ala
ways-direct and to the point, and-what Is of the greatest usefulness in
this rather inchoate fi.e1cl--ailple and 'Very readable. • • • The partjcu-
lar value of this volume ••• Is the comfstent and lnteDigmt reference
to scientific authorities and modem po!nts of view. • • • Dr. and MIS.
Curtiss greatly aceJ in the symbolical or allegoric:al school of Bt'ble
interpretation." llui: Eduaund 1oues, Editor, Tie SGbiGa Pllilosopiy,
c,;.,.._'W Wa /or ,.,..,. ~ Btlllln. Prb, 'iz.sg
OUT OF PRIN',f
"'The Curtfaa Boob"" apcnmd a Coemlc pbilosopbJ'.
·COMING WORLD CHANGES
A rational summary of the many recent prophecies as to
world cataclysms, the value of such prophecies, and the
scientific and philosophic principles underlying such cyclic
changes in the earth's surface.
Not a pessimistic, hopeless and fear-producing volume,
but presenting·the underlying principles of the changes, and
a definite remedy for shortening ''the days of tribulation."
Chap. 1-Propheclea of Sir Chap. V..-The Heart of the
Arthur Ccman D07le ud. World. The relation of
mall7' othen. America to world condi-
Chllp. II.-Geologic:al ecm.ider- tlcma.
atioaa, the ac:ienti&c apec:t. Chap. VI..-The Battle of Ar-
Cbap. IlL-The Plli1asoph7 of mageddon. Payc:hlc ~
Planetazy Changes aach aa ton In the World War,
IUik Atlantis, etc. etc. .
Chap. IV..-The King of the Chap. VII..-The Remedy.
World ud the predicted Baaed on ac:ientlfic PQCho-
Aaiatic imaalon of ~ loslcal principles.
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are noted internationally for the
profound scholarship with which they have studied the prob-
lems of ancient and modem mysticism. • • • The fact that
they predicted the World War, in a volume published two
yeors before the assassination at Serajevo, lends special value
to their dream of the approaching new era. • • ."
-National Pictorial Monthly, New York.
If you wish to understand the finer forces operating back
of present-day conditions you need this remarkable volume.
· Countless fulfillments of its prophecies-exceptional earth-
quakes, fioods, droughts, fammes, etc.-have occurred since
its first editiou.
Art Boards. · Ptle• $1.10 loil -,aid.
E>UT OF PAIN 1
l,
"The Curtiss Books" expound the laws of future events
COMING WORLD CHANGES
APPRECIATIONS
"For many ~ now 'The Curtiss Books' have been we1c:omed
by all earnest and- devout seekers of wisdom; and this volume is of
spccicil value in the present World Crisis. There are many books
written ••• on these great c:banges ••• but few are of equal value
to this one." The Rally (London). ,
"Like all the other 'Curtiss Boo0: this is a deep and scholarly con-
sideration of the subject. • • • .A.ts tmporlant booll ••• and we hope
that each of our readers will secure a copy." . The AqtUJf'ian. Ag•
(Santa Barbara).
"In view of present teadeucies it strikes a startlingly confirmatory
note. • • • Is it merely a coincidence that seismic anil meteorologic:al
disturbances of all kinds are now becoming so frequeut and severe?
••• Needless to say that we consider the course indicated is one
which is worthy of everr commendation, and that. file am Marfily
recomrnnttl it.• From a four-page editorial review in The Occull
11roiml (London).
"Even when read With certain reservations as to posss"bility and
probability, one cannot but grasp the deeP spirituality of the messages,
and to be assured of the earnest and sincere motives back of the
writing." Washingtats Post (D.C.). ·
"The book is wen written and clear; and much crech"bility is lent
to the prophecies by statements of geological changes already in
progress•••• The book handles the spiritual side of coming world
changes as saliently as it does the physical, with a beautiful short
chapter at the end called 'The Remedy."" Theosophical M1ssmgw
(Chicago). • • •
"Full of deep spmtuality." Htdl Bf!llling NI'W (EngJand).
"Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss are esceptionally gifted writers in their
peculiar field-a field of Oriental mysticism lighted by a Western sun.
Coming World ChtJng1s is a remarkably interesting volume." Ghost
Stori1s (New York). .
''The work done by Dr. and Mrs. Curtiss, as set forth in this little
book, deserves recognition from all fellow-workers." CtJfltJdilm TM-
osophlsl (Toronto). ·
"Any addition to 'The Curtiss Books' is very welcome in the 1ibrarr
of the occultist because of the 1Dlusually sincere and constructive na-
ture of the work carried on by the doctor and his wife." The Mls-
mg~__(Los Angeles). -
"With the advent of each new 'Curtiss Book' we reasonably expect
further researches into truth, and file ar1 1101 tlimppointld. •••
Much spiritual pabulum is develoued in their new book, which we
take pleasure in commending." M"ercwy (New York).
Dr. F. Homer Curtiss and his brilliant wife, joint authors of a
number of famous books on philosophy, believe a remarkable change
is impending•••• Thly haw tliw1tlto prophesy.r-NIJiioMl Pictorial
Monthly (New York). . .
LE'ITERS Jrum the TEACHER
These letters from the Teacher of Thl Order of Clwislitm M~.
in answer to questions coming from earnest and intelligent students
all cm:r the world, touch just the practical questions that arise in
tbe dai17 lives of an wbo are striri1Jg to me the. higher Ufe.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Volume I Volume II
L s . "tual Growth aud De- L Health and Disease.
~t. IL PQddc, Coaditions.
IL Tbe Masters of Wisdom
IlL Tbe Law of Karma.
aad Their Work.
IlL CcacemiDg The Order of IV. Coming World ~
. Clristian :MJStlcs. v. Omceming The Order of
IV. Pra)'a' aad Its Results. Olristian :M,atics.
v. Tbe Astral Plane. VL Afier Death Ccaditioas.
VI. PQddc Pbalomeaa. VIL Pra)'a' aad Its Results.
VIL Dreams and Vasiaas. VIIL Health aJid Disease.
VIIL Health aac1 Disease. IX. Financial Problems.
IX. The ~ Problem. X. Rdac:araatioa.
X. :MisceJlanmas. XL The ~ Problem.
m. Yarrfaae and Diwrce.
F.ac:h wlume c:aataias en- XIIL ~
tirel7 different letters c:overiug
different phases of the subject .XIV. Jesus and The Cluist.
mentioned in the other wlume.
XV. lliscellaueous.
Volume L Sizth Edition Price $2.00.
Volume II•.Secoud EdltJon ~ $2.00.
"The Curtlaa Boob" uplaba the (!Oblema of daD7Ufe
LETIERS from the TEACHER
APPRECIATIONS
"Among the 111a117 occult wlumes before the public, aiming to assist
students who desire earnestly to master lower appetites and devote
themselves seriously and successfully to the culture of true spirituality,
I know of none more useful and admirable than the work now be-
fore me.'~W. J. Colflille.
••Many Biblical and other vroblems are bandied clearly and con-
vincingly in a manner that sliows the instructor to be one sure of
the position takcu, desirous of imparting helpfnl knowledge to all
earnest inquir~ at the same time lea'ring all Stndents in full mental
liberty.-M me Light Lib Bullelill.
"Another' interesting ~ to the clepu1mmt of oa:uJt
sdence."-Porllalld Oregoai~J&
..The letters of advice, of which this book is aear~ full, bear f:'ffrY
mark of culture, of sincerity, aud of a lofty tbought.; ~- FnJBN&o
A.rgtnlllfll.
"The book is peryaded with tbe spirit of loviDg serrice. Efti'J'
question receives a clear and careful answer which mast have satisfRiil
the inquirer."-A.tnerietm Tlsetuo#Jist.
"There is no subject in the book that is not treatal in a manner
so interesting that it is hard to lay it dowu. but whea. the chapter Oil
The Sex Problem is reached there is found some stroag food for a
strong man with a strong mind. The tone of the whole subject is
Purity. It is the sort of CJ book the 6hltleat tAJIW for "1..-ea&,..._
~ Poril ltmes.
"'Its warnings against the daDgers of p87Cbjsm, and its frank and
raticmal discussion of the sex question ••• are to be CDJ11111CDded."-
Bdilor 0. E. S. Critic.
••The beautifnl truths expressed in beautiful clictioa c:aDDOt help
but appeal to the soul whidi is seeking the higher thiDgs of life."-
U•ily.
••I want to tbauk :you from the bottom of ~ heart for the comfod
that has come to me through :your ulfers frOm the Teoelser. I felt
the moment the book came into my handS .like one who had come
home at last-to a wonderful home for which one had been long and
eamestlr seekiug and ~yiug and longing. ••• When one comes into
the realization of ones dearest dreams, knowledge is instant.aneou5-
~isnodonbL"-M.~
•'J find your books the most helpful I have ~ read. They are so
liveable tmtl meet the UUftl.r of life. Words are so inadequate to ex-
press my gratitude."-Mrs. E. H.'6.
Yol.Il, Nftlllelters cowritlg other .rwbjeeb, iaclutlirag sleciol c1wlt:
lers Ott Sex, MtJf'riDge tmd Divorce, Fitltmcitil Problem.r, lise Clariri
tmd lise comirsg World TeGCiser, etc.
lfewl Jut outl ill ]111le of 1935. Another lap YOlame. The
Aathonf 1ateat work. A compaioa to f'HB VOICE OF ISIS uacl
f'HB MESSAGE OF AQUARIA.
THE INNER RADIANCE
Foz~ chapters covering almost Wf:r7 phase of the mystic
lif~ tism and spiritual philosophy, from the atoc:k market col-
lapse and the clepressjoa. and the reDII:dY. to the zodiac,.the clemeotals.
diYiae fire, ftdemptioo. IGag Arthur aDd his lmigbb, IGag IlesR. aacl
the Olrist Star.
CONDENSED TABLE OF CONTENTS
n.1..,. .Rtlditlltu: that mysterious~ which tabes an thiap
ca to perfectioa. Till God Ma: God m the process of manifestation
in mao. b is fill DIIY$ of NDllll: planets retumiDg to similar reJa-
tioas and urocluc:ing siDUiai c:ouditions today. How to master them.
S~l Co-o~naiimt: a Jaw of the uaiYerse. Ma Gflll 1/w Zotlillc:
hOw the 1Z sips are represcatal in man. TM Ltml /roM H61Jf1m:
bow the spiritual man dncend• into the humaa. Till Sofll Lml!}fiiJ9':
the irmer language pf spiritual c:onsciousness. T~: the
doctrine. the atoms. Not reiDcamation. Cosmie CtUU,s of Worltl
Ctnldiliou tJrlll 1/w Rnrwly: Cosmic and Karmic.factors, Dr. Curtiss'
lecture before the Ownber of Commerce. TM Mystic Ros,: why a
~1 of Dmne I..me.. Tlw Gr«JJ tmtliM SfiiiJII: an things are reJa-
tm. TM I..ortJs of KanJU~: the eftllts pf life neither fate DOl' pun-
ishment, but 0 tunities. JUtlmtptioa: the esoteric cloc:trine. Why
necasary. R~c;;of the outer upon the iuner. Tit, Great WOl"k:
the mystery of spiritual alchemy. Kiag Desir,: his meaning and
JDaStery. TM Mystery of lu Blnuttls: the consdoas forces bade of
Nature. HJIIID to the Elements. Ma Gild till B,.,.ltJls: rOle of the
Guomes, UadiDes. SyiP!Js and Salamanders. Tu Realm of BHWu:
the mystery of Being from DOD-being. StJitms Gild C_ydic I..aw: role
of Saturn as tester and Initiator. God, Ma Gild lu PIDMI: their re-
lation. The Book of Remembrance. Tu Third Bye: f1111c:tions of
the piueal gland. TM Mout of .AIItJia"""': the end of the Path.
TU Road Tabk: symbology o! KinJ Arthur and his knights. Di-
viu Fir,: fire of Jif~ of miDd. Cosmic fire. TM Glory of 1/w Ltml:
how I'CCOPized and aJDtacted. uutmS by llw Way: the ancient aJD-
tineots. I.esson of the sage-brush. Nature's ~bology. Tu King of
Glory: where and bow he reigns. Tu Clarist SIDI": the sheDIM:rds
and the Wise Ilea. The five points. Pr'~: for the Seconcl
~~ e; Sa:oacl Editioa with ~ iDda. Price $2.50.
~ t::J.
$ ~.. Order all of '"The Curtiss Books" clirec:t from
j #!E CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
35W~ St. N. w. WasbiDctoa.'D. c.
~!l
;; ~~
"The Curti81 Boob" Are Llfe-lODI l'rlenc1a
APPRECIATIONS
"The majority of the forty chapters which comprise this work con-
cern the revolutionary changes through which humanity is now pass.
ing, and their 1Ftf11Jlly errul#e contents should do mtu::h to tlllGy /etSrl
which tend to flood the mind through lack of knowledge. • • • Of
whatever they treat • • • the authors are nothing if not $Upremely
help/fll. As Christian mystics who work strenuously for the dissemina-
tion of greater spiritual knowledge among aD races and creeds, Dr. and
Mrs. Curtiss write with wide knowletlge tJnd ezperimce, and their view-
points and suggestions should prove both interesting tJnd nt:ourtJgiag to
those who view with apprehension the religious, social and political
upheavals which would appear to some to be the visible sips of -an
angry Deity's vengeance.-OcctiU Revievla London.
"I have enjoyed all of your boob so much that somehow any other
Hterature has lost its value for me. 1 tJm qu;,, llltil/iul to read and
enjoy it, as it is so etn~~lnldiv•, loving and '""·"-Mn. S. H. W.,
Indianapolis.
"This is the 18th volume of 'Tbe Curtiss Boob' and flleiJif4"U up to
t11e but teaching put out by the weD knowu authors. • • • The forty
chapters include several chapters dealing with ""'"'-dtJy etmditioas in
the world. • • • The book helps one to better tmtlenttlnd from the
spiritual standpoint, the revolutionary changes through which humanity
is now passing."-T11e .AqruJritln Age.
"There is no need for ignorance in the world today. • • • T11e laer
RstlitJaee brings into one's consdoUSDeSS the Why'I of all questions,
and their answersI It is food which if eamestiy partaken of by the
student will result In good digestion."-Mn. M. E. W., Washington.
"This is the latest of the numerous publicatioDS of Dr. and Mrs.
Curtiss ••• the purpose of which is to make religfOD a pruetiaJl tJnd
fliW Gitl in the conduct of life. Its membership ranges over some 70
foreign countries and is united only by spec:ific houn of devotion and
intercession."-Springfield Uaitna tJnd Republit:t&
"Permit me to add my tribute of praise to the great volume you no
doubt have received from the production of T11e laer RlltlilMu. It
is a fit comJJI!o:Dion to the other 'Curtiss Boob,' and I believe shows
a tleeper 11iri'fllll iasiglll than polllll"bly its predecessors. • • • I will
not rest until I can succeafully correlate with the true Inner Radiance.
-Mr. H. S., Toronto.
"It is a continuation of the iaqlriag tJnd ~ tetJellag1 to be
found in the long series of volumes issued by the authors; which com-
bine a firm adherence and interpretation of our Bible truths with a
tleep tJnd utetuiw kfaDutlulge of thresoteric teachinp of ancient and
modem times. n is couched in plain, lntelligl"ble language, and its aim
is to be of lerviu ID tJll who are OD the upward Path, and are In need
of coUDSel and encouragement in the diflic:ult and crucial period through
which we are passing. • • • Many most abstruse subjects are discussed
with utmost simplicity and frankness."-Tu Rlllly, LondOD.
The Twentieth Volume of "The Curtiss Books"
VITAMINS
Tlu!ir Oritia, 1•~ 11114 S,,ftc Usu.
A mast Important pamphlet just Issued by Dr. Curtiss supplementiq
his well-known volume, "Health Hints for Four-Fold Health.''
Experimental raean:h has shown that If there Js a de6dency of uy
of the vitamiDs or miDeral salts ill the diet, thJs de6c:iency upsets the
dlemistry of the whole body and makes It Jmpossib)e for the or&us to
perform their f1mc:tioDS DOrmaDy. Hence If c:ertaJn vitamins are laddDg,
certsill defiDite dileued CODditlODS arise, mch u rickets, Dalal,. sinus and
bladder lufectiom, p.D-etoues, goiter, diabetes, anemia, paralysis of
Beriberi, pyonhea, loss of appetite aDd weight, arthritis, rheumatism,
uJcen, varicose 'ftiDs, :bemorrholds, augiDa aDd other heart conditicms,
IDsolllllla, frigidity, sterility, eczana, cataract, enJarged prostate, quami-
IOJDenell, DUVOUS lneaJalcnru, etc., result. These conditiODS are rapidly
reJiewd If not entlndy cured when ~e laddDg vltamiDs or ceD-salts are
supplied, ID additloD to the other CODditlcms recommended ID our 11
Four-
Fold Health.'' .
- The spedfic effect of each vitamfD fs fuDy descrlhed fD DOD-technbJ
Jauguage, aDd the 10111ces fzom which It cu msily and lnnpeusively be
obtafued are listed. ·
U pva the hulc: physical fadon Ullderlyiug maD)' mental, DerVOUS
aac1 psyddc, a well u bodily disorders, which If comctcd aDows Natun:
to complete the cure without operatiODS or drugs.
An illvaluabJe aid·for an who are sufferlus fzom any bodDy, nervous
or mental aDment. May aha you the by-note ud remedy for your
conditiOD. Priu #DIIItlill tnrl, SOe.
TOWARDS THE LIGHT
By PRINCESS MAllY KARADJA
~· Foader of n. Will. Crtm u-.. Author of Btr Solorutl, TA.
..,. Sne1t ~.etc.
....,. Tbe fate ad ftdemptlon of a saldde told iD IDsplriug blank wne.
1-10:: "A DOhJe meaap fmm the Great Beyond.'' Pall 111111 GGUU..
-rids poem Js a powerful meditatfou OD .the theme: 'Whatsoever a
0. man lOWS tbat lhal1 he rap.' • Almrlma Dllil, JOWJIIII.
"The story Is told ill drUDatlc and moving language. There i1 a.
Lt. dlaln of dn:umst1nces powerfuDy dacribed." .Urld. -
o -wm appal to the &eDera~ na.ter .. we11 .. to the~
Gttu,, n.u.
c...... "Her Majesty Queen AJaandra has padous1y 'ntfm•tecl her plaiUie
~ ID acceptfDa a praentatlon copy.• IJrld. -·
::J_ Klq Olear ol S1ftdm rad It aJoucl at a nceptlon iD 1001.
0 Mr. Stanford of CaUforula pnsented SOD copieS to the free libraries
of Amtra1ia. Swedish, DIDIIh, Dotda, Pinnish aDd GermaD editions
ave appeancl ill additloD to the EncJish editloD.
To the Author'& bowleclp Ulil ,_ lGI ltWitl Gl ,_, -flua#fr-
10111 Jn- lllld& _ Prlu I.SO ,DII~.
'11le falknriq are thee _... wtu- of thla lel'ia:
PRAYERS OF THE ORDER OF CHRISTIAN
MYSTICS
A coJiec:daG. of iDapired ud lnaplriq ~~ _for an oc-
cam- ud for eRrT Deed ud mOod. Published ia luuldy
form for tbe ~ or tbe lwJd-bac. ad acceut"bbe at all
timeL B7 1ta ~ me an _,. experieace tbe -m&Dlfo1d
hleafDp Uri=tbe ~ aDd caiiJifort of tbo .pritual
fcm:ea 1r1aida .,.&a! pnJen ill'ftllrL
.frt P~. SOc; l.aiMr. $LOO.
THE LOVE OF RABIACCA
A TulmD'I' I. P'lft Ac:n
A t1ariiiiDc tale of a pre-laiataric nee. 11!CDftnCl- JIQdaicaD7
liT tbe audMin..
Ar:r L '11le BattlemeDb.
Ar:r IL '11le JloaDtaiD Slde.
Acr UL The ~ ia tile Tempte.
Af:f IV. '11le Loft Philter.
Af:f V. Sceae L The Rite of Nabcl Swwd. •
Sceae iL ~ :J!1allllq ~ ad tbe ~-
.«rt P~.(jOc; L.Uw. $LOO.
CURTIS~~Im.OSOPHIC BOOK ~.
3510 Quebec~~W. Washingtaa, D. C.
c?.~.ft
so #¥
(c) ~"V
-rile Cartlu BooD- Blue the TnD for the New Age
The GEM SERIES of BOOKLETS
Ideal Gifts at Air7 5euoD. llaDcb- Pocket Size.
GEMS OJ.P IIYSTICISII
l'DsplrlDc ~ telectecl fmm the writiDp of Dr. ud lin. CartfiL
Giva best limpJe iDiflht Into Mysticsm.
L Spiritual Gmwth. n. Duty. m Karma. IV. Relnc:amatloD.
V. The Christ. VI. MuteD of Wisdom. VD. Jlhcell•neous.
"'De might wade thmugh the ftJiglous phllosophlziDp of every people
aDd place aDd DOt nc:eift tbe IDspJratloa one 1riD get out of a teD-
JDIDute perusal of this llttJe book.''-BallituN Aturica.
FifiiJ B4ilitnt.. Arl Po~W, 50 Cmb; Li•~.Z..IIr.w, 11.00
THE SOUNDLESS SOUND
A PraM Poem of Devotion ad lleclitatloa
'"Whatever cme's creed, every IOU! tiD eat and drink of a book fall of
· laviDg helpfulllas, that coma as UDpJetcDtlous as a soug-spanow, as
quiet as a hfddm spriDg, as soft as an odor-JadeD zephyr, with 10111. re-
flaluaeDt aDd deJfghL"~eorr• WiarlDII Jt~~MS, Editor •o.~ we~~.•
Ptiiii'IIJ bl .Balort. Po~er, SO Cab; U.l UGlier., ltJJO
TBB TEMPLE OP SU.EHCE
'l'lle IIUIIt IDsplriDc tftatlse OD JlrdftatfOD and eDtafDc the SIJeDcL
Pradlcal woDfDg dhectloDs pvm.
The Gft:at ~&terlq the SiJeDc:&.-6e HOOD SileDce Servk:e.
TJinl ~ Art Po~er, SO Cab; U.l Leollcr., $1110
Gmurt lldilitnt. Po,. 'IS ~
THE DIVINE MOTHER
'l'lle Jatat and IIUIIt beautiful pm of the llelfea. ·
The Dlvbul Motbelo-the BdDpr I'OitJt.....the MfdDIPt Pra,u-tbt
Waten of I..ife-the Comforter.
Tllirtl Btlilitnt. .4rl Po~W, 50 Cnal6; Lila~ Ualllw,Jl.OO
Send for Descriptive Cataloa ot·Til Cflrlla Boob
~ltl Order -n. Curtr. Boob" Direct fiOIIl
~ ~·
~ ~..THE CURTISS PHILOSOPHIC BOOK CO.
atl!~Stnet,N. w. w......-.n. c.
II
~~
