{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__aspr___margery_proceedings_v1-v3.pdf","mytitle":"Margery Proceedings V1-v3","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
of the
AMERICAN SOCIETY /or··
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
VOLS. XX-XXI
(for the years 1926-1927)
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
A complete record from January 1st, 1925
Edited by
J. Malcolm Bird
Research Officer of the Society
(Vol. 1)
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
15 Lexington Avenue
New York
1928
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CH AP'l'ER
PAGE
I: Introductory Remarks .... . . . .. ...... . .. . . ······ · · · ·· ··· ··
II: M t·. Dingwall's Study of the Case. . . ... . . .. ..... .
III : Walter's "Talking H ead" ................. .. .. .. · ...... .. .. ..
I\T: Informal 'J'ests of the W:J.lter Voice .... .. ... . .... · . · · · · · · · · · · ·
\T: Th e ~'elepl asmic Hand .......... . .. . . .... · · · · ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
YI : '!.'he Telekinetic Aspect: to July 1st, 1925 ......... . . · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
YII: DonatiOHS from 'Walter ....... . . .... . . ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
VIII: Seances Outside the Lime Street Premises: 1925 ... . .... . . · · · · · ·
I X: The Code-Hoagland Episoc
le . . ... . ...... . .... . . . ... . . .. .. · · · · ·
X: The Bell-Boxes of Early 1925 ..... . .... . ..... . . . . . · · . · · · · · · · · · · ·
XI: T he Curious History of the ''Hole Bell-Box ''· ..... . ... . · ··· · ····
XII: The Serious Side of the Ha.narcl Case ... ......... · . . .. . . · · · · · · · ·
XIII: 'J'h e A.S.P.R.. Project: Seances of July, 1925 ... . . . .. . ....... · · · ·
XIV: A.S.P.R. Serr11 cos : Second Series . . . . . . . . ...... . . · ... . · · ·
XY: A Reversion to 'J'eleplnsmics ........... . .. .. .. . .. . .. . · . · · · · · · · · ·
XYI: The Climax of the A.S.P.R. Sittings ... . ..... . . . .... . ... .. . .. . · ··
1
7
16
24
31
47
64
69
85
114
123
132
143
171
188
214
XYII: The Telekinesis of Later 1925. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242
XYIII: One Sitter, aud His Yerdi.ct .... .. . ........... . .. . . . . ... .. . .. ... 249
XIX: Another Sitter: 'I.'he Same Yerclict ... . . .. . .. .. . ..... . .. . ...... · 256
XX: Dr. Richanlson 's Voice-Control Mnchine. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
XXI : An Uncom·erted Skeptic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277
XXII: Identifications of Pcrsomil Obj ects ... .. . ........ . .. . . . ... . . . ... . 287
XXIII: Iclcn h fi cations of Playing Carel's. . . . . . . . . . 292
XXIY: 'J'eleplasmics in the Tnformal Sittings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 305
XXY: Th e Glass Cabinet a nd Wirecl Control. . . 312
XXYI: A New Procecltue of "One-Man Sittings" ........ . ............. 324
XXYII : 'rhe Bell-Boxes : to November, 1925. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336
XXYIII: The Wooden Le1'tcrs : A New In strument for Cognitions ...... . . . 342
XXIX: The St:mclardized Seance, in 'J'wo P:U"ts . . ... . ... . ........ 348
XXX: A Distinguished Sitter nnd His Renction. . . .. . . . . . .... . ... . . .. . 362
XXXI: Anoth er Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .. ..... 365
XXXII: The Psychical Activation of th e I..JUIJ1.i.nous Paint . 390
XXXIII: Margery and Other P sychics.. . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .... ... . .. .. 395
XXXIV: Four Seances of Outstanding Character. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
XXXY: The Fmthcr History of the Bell-Box ..... .. ... . . .·. . 412
XXXYI: 'I.'he Rchnbilitation of t he Scales. . . . . ... . . . . . 417
XXXYII: Th e F mthet· History of th e Standardized Seance ... .. ........ ... . 428
XXXYIII : Identificntion Phenomena in tbe Glass Cabinet . ........ . . . .... .. . 434
XXXIX: Wa lter's Cognitions Dming the Summer and Fall of 1926.. 437
XL: Yngra.nt Sitt ings in the Olcl Cabinet.......... .... ....... ... 444
Xl:,I: P:waffin Gloves under the Co-Mecliumship of Dr. Han1wicke . . . 447
XLII: Further Teleplasmic Phenomena with the Aiel of Dr. H ardwicke . . . 465
XLTil : A Distinguished Sitter from Alnoacl ............ . .... . .......... 479
PREFACE
In the past, and up to 1925, it has been the fi xed poli l',,. of the
American Society for Psychical Research to issue every yea r a 1 lume
of Proceedings, distinct from its monthly .Journal. The Prnl'<
· dings
volume has been intended as a repository for material too extv11 -.ive or
too r econdite for use in the Journal; the basis fo r t his bci11g mainly
the fact that the distinction between membership classes revoh·vd bout
payment of an additional fee, so that the Journal had a largl'l' nd a
more nearly" popular" audience. But in·practice this has no! a lways
worked out well. There have been times when a single connedt·d body
of material justifying publication in Proceedings form has llf lL been
avail able; and when, therefore, t.he obligation to supply such a 1 olume
to the members who have paid for it has made it necessary l'iI her to
group in one volume numerous short and unrelat ed items, or t o publish
at length something that might better have been issued in sun1111a ry or
even r elegat ed to the documentary fil es of the Society.
Accordingly, during 1927 a decision was reached to cl i ~, · o t inue
the regular p ublication of Proceedings, and to enlarge the J oJJ l'Hal t o
take care of some of the material thus made availabl e for J o\1 1
'1
1 1 use.
U nder this new policy, whenever the Society has a case whicl1 l1
.' virtue
of its length or its recondite character, or on any other ba.
,i.
' , seems
suitable for Proceedings and unsuitable for the Journal, a 1
·ol ume of
Proceedings will be published and will go to all members p ay i1
1
g more
than the minimum membership fee. But there will be no obi ig:~ tion t o
publish such a volume at regular intervals ; and during !I Jc time
between the appearance of two of these volumes, those mclnl wrs who
elect to pay more than the minimum fee will do so with th v idea of
supporting the Society's work by just so much more, rather I ha n with
any intent of receiving a definite additional piece of merchancl i.;e fr om
the Society.
At the time when the decision to inaugurate this changed policy was
effect ed, the Society was in arrears to its t en-dollar mernb,·1
·, t o the
extent of one Proceedings volume; and with the terminatio 11 of the
year 1927 it became a second year in arrears. This of cou1·,;c is an
cbligation upon the Society. In point of fact the lapse has ht.!en due,
not to lack of suitable material, but to the inability of the Society's
st aff to find tiJ11c for working into shape the material available.
Throughout thi period it has been t he intent to use, for the next
Proceedings, the g rowing mass of data arising out of the famous
l\largcry case. T he details of this plan have been modified from time
to time ; and wha I we now fin ally present is a two-volume compilation,
which serves as t l1e missing Proceedings for 1926 and 1927 while at
the ame time br i11ging publication of this interesting and important
case substantiall) down to date. The first of t hese two volumes, car-
rying these int roductory remarks, will reach the Society's members
during October , I D28; the second one will follow without too much
delay.
To what is saicl in Chapter I r egarding the scope of this work noth-
ing need be added beyond the stat ement that the intent to stop abruptly
with the last sean,·e of 1926 has been abandoned. The 1927-8 period
of the mediumshi1) has been much bett er covered by contemporaneous
publication than " ' C l'C the preceding two years; so that using citation
of existing litern.h 1rc as freely as this volume docs, a given period of
time may be cov r•·d with less expenditure of space than has been neces-
sary herein. T IK .~ cco nd volume will carry the case to such point in
1927 or 1928 as ."t'Cms to afford the most logical stopping place; and
with it, the com],Ietc histor y of the case up to that point will be
available for the tirst time.
The uncertain lv as to just what the second volume will contain
and just what it o rdcr of presentation will be, makes it impossible to
complet e certain c1
·oss-refer ences out of the first volume into the second.
These r eferences H re made by open number; a typical entry being:
" See open r efereDl'l' No. 17 in Vol. 2." The first printed page follow-
ing t he title-pag of the second volume will comprise a list of these
references, in numt·l·ical order, giving for each the page-number of the
volume to which th refer ence is intended to direct the r eader. Since
these refer ences uul] not be looked up in any event until the second
volume is availablC'. !·he only inconvenience will be the necessity of thus
having to look in t " o places for one r eference.
The editor is •·u nscious of the necessity for explaining away the
treatment accord d 1nany of the seances where p hotographs were taken.
Such photograph <
ll'C in practically every instance made by Messrs.
Conant and Gcrk , individually or in collaboration; and a rc developed
by them, usually i11 a small dark-room which t hey have fitted up in
what was once a c lo ~ct, in 10 Lime Street. Always the appropriate
pr ecautions arc ta kt:n to preserve the integrity of the picture; but
always, in the en 1, l he negative passes into Dr. Crandon's custody, it
and all rig hts of r ep roduction become his p ropert y, and t he sei·ious
business of maintaining a permanent file of these pictures is in his hands.
N ow prior to the incidence of the thumb-p rint sequence t o which
we do not come at all in the cuncnt volume, Dr. Cr andon was never
able to see the importance of preser ving the tie-up between all photo-
graphs and their dates of making and the conditions under which they
were exp osed and the r ecords showing all this. So ther e exist in his
hands many plates and prints ca rrying no memoranda of dat e, and
regarding whi ch neit her he nor anybody else can testify further than
to say : " I r emember being present when this picture was taken."
Some of these undat ed pictures I g ive, when t heir intrinsic importance
seems to warra nt showing them despite this hiatus in their history.
All p ictures which can be positively assigned t o a given dat e and posi-
tively given a place in t he det ailed r'ecord of that dat e I give, save when
their interest is so slight as to lead me to begrudge them space. But
in numer ous inst ances I give the r ecord carrying the stat ement that
pictures were made, and without further apology than the present one
let the p ictures themselves go by default.
Usually when one camera is exposed in the Lime Street seance-
room, three ar e exposed; and since one of these is ster eoscopic, we may
have as many as four differ ent views of the same scene, from four dif-
ferent angles. Whether t o publish more than one of these must of
course be decided independently in each inst ance, on the basis of the
content of the sever al views. The extremely beautiful st er eoscopic
effec~s which ar e displayed to anyone who goes to Lime Street to inspect
th~ photographs and other exhibits there on file are, of course, quite
impossible of r ep r oduction in connection with a book ; this will always
r emain one of the major advantages of a visit t o the Cr andon residence.
J . M. B.
CHAPTER I
Introductory Remarks
By the Editor
in a volume p reviously p ublished through the ordinar y commercial
channels/ I haye given the hi t ory of the Margery mediumship from
its inception in May, 1923, clown to the end of 1924. For this purpose
there were placed at rny disposal all the records in D i·. Cr andon's p os-
session ; in addition to which, I had myself enjoyed g reat er contact
with the case t han a ny other obser ver who was not initially acquainted
with the Psychic and her husband. The r esult has been a book which,
written from the journalistic viewpoint by one having no idea that his
interest in psychical research would ever become other than a journal-
istic one, when judged from severe scient ific st a ndards has certa in
ob~rious shortcomings. In spite of these, it is the most faithful account
possible, at first hand and at second hand wit h citation of authority, of
the first nineteen months of the mecliumship. It continues to be recog-
nized alike by friend and by foe of the medium as the sole primar y
source for at least that part of t he histor y of the case p rior to its
consideration by the Scientifi c American Committee.
W"
ith my strictures upon that Committee and its work, it was not
to be expect ed that Messrs. Houdini, Prince and McDougall would be
in accord. I told the st ory of the Committee's handling of the case,
as I saw it ; and I set down the status of t he case with the sever al
Committee members, as it existed when my book went to p ress. Its
further treatment by the Committee, and certain changes in the atti-
tudes of the individual Committeemen, will be made clear by a reference
to the sever al articles by means of which the Scientific American
attempt ed to beat a decent and orderly r etreat from the mess into
which it had got itsel£.2 A full er st at ement of McDougall's view-
point, with certain criticisms and discussions arising out of that state-
ment, may be found in the Journal of my Society.3
These documents,
1 ' 'Margery'' the Medium; Small, Maynard & Co., 192:5; hereinafter cited as
M . M .
2 So. Am., Nov., 1924, p. 304; Jan., 1925, p . 29; F eb., 1925, p. 140; Apr., 1925,
p. 22•
9.
3 J o1t?·nal, A.S.P.R., Apr., 1!125, p. 190 ; June, J925, p. 297; July, 1925, p . 361.
1
2 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
a nd only these, need be consulted by one who wishes to gain an adequate
idea of the Margery history to the end of 1924, and of the status of
tl t(' case at that dat e.
As everybody knows, the mediumship did not yield to the adverse
i,.,,·points of the Scientific American Committee majority. The
m•·cl iumship has gone on and on; controversy about it has gone on and
n ; publication of primary reports of observations, and of secondary
di;.cussion and criticism, alike by the pros and the cons, has gone on
in const antly increasing volume. Since my previous book on the
mcdiumship, however, ther e has been made no orderly attempt to bring
it history down to date in a single, unified discussion; and the only
att empt at a bibliography has been in connection with a most biassed
ach •·rsc ~ritiquc:1
The present text is aimed at making good the
d ri ciency.
.Just above, I speak of the history of the case; just below, of the
cha t·acter of the mediumship and of other questions of evidential con-
tr. i . This makes it necessary for me to emphasize that the present
volume has a two-fold purpose and a double viewpoint. 'i\T
hercver the
records are unusually precise or the conditions unusually adverse to
th l1ypothesis of fraud in general or to that of some particular fraud,
or ~ hcrever it seems possible to deal in any critical sense with evidential
vahw~ , this is done. But very often, nothing of the sort is possible.
In 11 e h event, the dominant consideration must be the fact that, genuine
or h audulcnt, the :Margery mediumship is a case of the very first
imp ortance-one which even by some of those who regard it as probably
invalid, has been pronounced the most important case of physical
medilllnship in histor.y. This makes it very vital that there be duly
set d01rn the best possible record of t he phenomena, purely as a matter
of hi"rory. ' i\Therc no evidential comment is possible-and this is the
cas ' i11 perhaps more than half of t he narrative-it is precisely this
historical document that I present. The reader should be under no
diffi ttlty in discriminating between the two viewpoints; and having
one iHJ inted out to him the necessity of so discriminating, I shall not
troubll' myself further about doing it for him.
P a rticularly where, as is often the case, the only documentary
record available is the one prepared by the medium's husband, the
nece ,·it ics for conoboration arc la rge; and regardless of whence the
r ecord comes these necessities exist. In some degree we meet them as
·i e•· open reference No. 1, Vol. 2 of tlte present text.
INTRODCCTORY REMARKS 3
we go along. In larger degree we meet them in one of the concluding
chapters, in which routine information about all the sittings is tabu-
lated, with complete cross-references to the text. The publication of
t he present text in two volumes necessitates that this chapter of routine
data be postponed into the second volume. As compensation for t his
. disadvantage, the time elapsing between the appearance of the two
volumes will enable us to give, in the second one, st atements from sitters
who will have r ead the accounts of their sittings in the first volume and
in proofs of the second, and who will indicate the degree to which they
endorse or dissent from these records.
It is not the intent to duplicate in these pages anything that has
already seen the light in any reasonably accessible publication. All
such published matter is part of the history of the case, and will have
its due place in the present text; but it will be given that place ordi-
narily by mere citation, and seldom by more than the sket chiest sum-
mary. W'hatever of new matter is necessary to complete the history
of the rnediumship over the t erm herein cover ed will be presented. In
considerable part, such new material will consist of seance records, the
immediate responsibility for which will always be indicat ed. In so far
as it is necessary to go beyond the seance r ecords the t ext will be mainly
of my own preparation, with chapters or portions thereof contributed
by others who may happen to be in better contact with certain of the
facts than I am. My share in the ultimate result will be that of editor
and major contributor.
In this connection, a little consideration must be given to my own
position with r efer ence to the case. I am the first of a large number
of people who, initially entire strangers to the Crandons, have through
one or another circumstance been projected into their seance room for
long and serious contact with the rnediumship. My experiences in the
seance room were such that at an early date in my exposure to the
mediumship it became evident to me that some part at least of the
phenomena were produced without fraud of any sort. So large a pro-
portion of them occur under conditions of incomplete control or inade-
quate observation that I have never felt justified in setting up any
claim of 100 p er cent genuineness; such claim would clearly involve
a carrying of testimony beyond the limits of one's evidence. I would
emphasize, however, that neither in my own experience nor in that of
any other critic do I find any serious evidence that Margery has ever
employed fraud. In so far as this implies my r ejection of adverse
4 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
published criticism based upon incidents falling within the p eriod cov-
ered by the present volume, my reasons for such r ejection will duly
appear.
In my previous book, I took the attitude uot only that t he phe-
nomena were demonstrated to my own satisfaction, but that they ought
also to be demonstrated to that of the reader. I now believe this atti-
tude to have been a mistake. For the first time in my journalistic
career, I met, in :Margery's seance room, occurrences which it is not
easy for the average reader to credit. ·writing as a journalist, accus-
tomed to telling my r eaders from a position of authority what was and
what wa~ not, I under estimated t he difficulty which a non-witness has
in crediting the phenomena of the seance-room. Certainly I did not
myself credit them until I had seen them; why should anybody else
do so?
Perhaps it is but another way of saying this same thing to confess
that, writing as a journalist, I did not properly distinguish between
the feeling of personal satisfaction that may come to a witness of
curious occurrences, and the hyper critical exclusion of all alternatives
which the scientist demands before he will accept new phenomena that
transcend his knowledge of how nature works. If the phenomena arc
not valid, they must be fraudulent ; and we must then set up working
hypotheses as to how they have been produced. Many of these working
hypotheses quite plainly border on absurdity. One who ·has seen t~e
manifest ations and got accustomed to them does not sufficiently realize
that.they, too, border on absurdity; and that t he non-witness is there-
fore in a position wher e of two absurdities he must choose the most
nearly sensible. If the adverse critic will fairly state and honestly
envision the hypotheses which must subsist as the price of his skepti-
cism, and if he will then l1onestly state that these appear to him less
silly, less objectionable, than the hypothesis of genuine occm-renc<', I
have today all respect for his attitude.
One thing must be abundantly clear from t he outset, however.
Among the hypotheses which must be admitted as the price of rej ect-
ing Margery's phenomena is that of active and sustained confederacy
by myself. The same r emark will ultimately apply to numerous other
sitters, but at this moment I am interested in it only as it involves me.
My attitude, implied but none the less dearly pTesent in my mind when
I wrote my previous book, was that I knew myself to be innocent of this
charge and would not quietly submit to it. This, too, is an idea from
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS 5
which I have completely recovered. I have come to realize that to a
very considerable proportion of persons, dishonesty from any source
whatever, no matter how high, is easier to believe than are t he phe-
nomena of the physical seance. This is a perfectly valid state of mind,
an aspect of human psychology from which we cannot escape. In
common with all other investigators of psychic phenomena, I expect
that a certain proportion of critics, when driven out of every other
refuge, will conclude that, inasmuch as these phenomena cannot lwppen,
and inasmuch as I have robbed them of every other alibi, the answer
must obviously be that I myself have aided in their production or have
reported them falsely. If any reader is of this t ype of mind, and if I
succeed in reducing him to the plea that I am the confederate or the
fraudulent reporter, I r egard myself as having done my full duty by
him, and as having carried him as far along the road of ultimate edu-
cation in the facts as it is possible to carry him.
So on all these grounds, I modify somewhat, in this book, the tone
which I took in my p revious one. I shall still p resent the phenomena
as valid; I shall still center my discussion about the exclusion of this,
that or the other oblique explanation. But I shall write in r ecognition
that rigorous scientific demonstration of something that you are
unwilling to believe is not possible, and that use of this term or any
equivalent thereof in connection with anything outside the theorems of
mathematics and logic involves a fallacy.
The bald truth is, as every judge and lawyer knows, that questions
of fact are invariably settled by preponderance o£ evidence, and by
per sonal judgment as to the weight to be attached to this evidence. In
considering these questions we can never hope to get away from the
personal equation. Certain conflicting factors appear; no logical
standard exists for determining which should have the most weight;
one of them impresses you as the weightier and I find another one so;
our judgments, thus divergent, we find cannot be reconciled. This is
a fundamental part of all discussions on questions of fact, and in such
discussion it is an illusion to think of absolute demonstration. Start-
ing from the same point, two observers or critics reach cliYergent con-
clusions; and there is nothing that can be done about it. Impossible
in the field of logic or mathematics, this is only what we must exp:::ct in
dealing with matters of fact. T he fallacy of talking about a factual
demonstration as though it were a logical syllogism is one which I pur-
pose studiously to avoid throughout the present volume. I am con-
6 THE MARGERY ME DIU:MSHIP
fident that the M argery mediumship is valid; in writing its history
I must write from that viewp oint; but I hope to a void urging that
viewpoint upon the r eader against his better judgment. At no stage,
I hope, shall I do more in the way of summary presentation of conclu-
sions than to say that certain hypotheses seem dict at ed or certain
others excluded, in given episodes; and that certain elaborate com-
pounding of extreme improbabilit ies must be accepted as the price of
rej ecting the mediumship .
It is p erhaps not out of order, then, t o insist that this moderation
of my attitude toward the skeptic does not correspond to any modera-
tion in my own constancy of conviction. One other point of opinion
on which I must likewise say a word is bound up in the question :
" V\T
hat is Walter? " If you ask me this, I shall very frankly reply
that I do not know, and do not very seriously car e. Throughout my
acquaintance with him, hom the very first , there has been present in
my mind the spirit interpr etation; and equally there has been present
the interpret ation in t erms of subconscious masquerade which we have
all and always r ealized t o be the alternative to spirits, and which M.
Sudre is nowadays formulating with such precision a nd vigor. If
W alter is not a spirit, he is a prosop opesis. \ nd in this particula r
instance, on account of the extreme degree of normal knowledge by the
medium of the living W alter Stinson, it does not seem to me profitable
to attempt the discrimination. Supposing that VValter is VValtcr, I
should despair of ever proving it." To me, VValter is the p ersonality
that runs the Lime Street seances ; just that, and nothing more. I
concentrate my attention on what he does and ignore the problem of
what he is.
As a measu re of economy a nd . t atistical unity, certain routine facts
about the sittings and the sitters ar c brought together, as stated above,
in one of the final chapters. U ntil Volume 2 of this t ext is in his hands
the r eader will be unable to turn forward to this chapter in search of
facts missing from the earlier ones. H e will feel this deprivation most
in connection with his desire to know who were present at certain
sittings, and who certain sitters arc. I greatly regret that I have
found no alternative to this rather unfortunate arra11gcmcnt of my
material.
o Since this text was written, the developments clll'on i ~kcl b~· Dr. Richardson in
the A..S.P.R. Jotwnal for Mn~·, June, etc., 1928, ha.ve gi,·en us an indirect attack
upon the problem of Walter 's personal iclentit~· \Yhieh . nggests that this clPspair
may have been a bit premature.-J . M. B .
CHAPTER II
Mr. Dingwall's Study of the Case
By the Editor
My previous history of the mediumship chronicles1
its exposure, at
a seance in London in December, 1923, to the critical eye of Mr. Eric
J. Dingwall, (then) Research Officer of the (British) Society for
Psychical Research. And in subsequent passages2
there is more than
a hint that, in early 19215, Dingwall came to Boston as a more or less
official emissary of his Society, to hold a series of seances with Margery
and attempt a rigorous demonstration of validity or of fraud. In this
he failed; partly because of the general principles which, as I haw
explained,3
make any such attempt illusory, and partly because of
special factors which he himself introduced. His own greatly delayed
account of his sittings and his states of mind,'1
and my analysis of his
work and of the reasons for the failure of his primary mission,5
should
be read in toto into the present history of the mediumship. For Ding-
wall's examination of the case took up all of Margery's seance-room
activity from January 1st to February 11th, 1925 ; and this study
constitutes not alone the first chapter in the 1926 history of the case,
but equally one of the most important chapters in its entire course.
Dingwall's stay in Boston resulted, first of all, in a complete change
in the character of the phenomena. For reasons to which he attached
great weight .but which I regard as fallacious, Dingwall desired to get
away from the accustomed phenomena of the mediumship. In this he
succeeded brilliantly. Under a persistent suggestion from Dingwall,
VValter turned to the production of a visible and tangible teleplasm,
issuing from the genitals with the Psychic in trance throughout the
seance. This, it will be appreciated, was a complete overthrow of
Margery's accustomed routine; and it has constituted a step of the
greatest permanent import. Walter did not abandon and has not
abandoned the older telekinetic manifestations. Similarly, with Ding-
1 Jlii. M., p. 13,7.
2M. M., pp. 438, 48:3.
s Above, pp. 5-6.
1 P1·oceedings, S.P.R., Part 98, Vol. XXXVI; June, 1926.
1\ Jmwnal, A.S.P.R., August, 1926, p. 480.
7
8 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
wall's departure he djd not abandon and has not abandoned the newer,
teleplasmic side. Since that time we get both aspects. Sometimes the
choice is made by the sitters; more often, by 'Walter. Occasionally
we get a mixed seance in which both the old and the new manifestations
occm;; more usually, a given phase monopolizes a single seance or a
series of seances. My review of Dingwall's report, just cited, suffi~
ciently emphasizes the details of this revolution, and its significance.
Another thread remains to be disengaged from the seances of these
six weeks, and here displayed. Obviously, a difficult problem con-
fronted Dingwall in his choice of sitters. Crandon, on his own insist-
ence, had to be included. McDougall was a member of the Council
of the S.P.R., and the only American member. By virtue of this fact,
in spite of the ambiguous position in which the Scientific American
enterprise had left him and in spite of his evident bias against the
mediumship,0
Dingwall named him as his colleague and Crandon
accepted him. By McDougall's nomination, there was added to the
group Dr. Elwood vVorcester, pastor of Emmanuel Church, one of
Boston's select Episcopalian congregations. There were held thirteen
" official" seances, at all of which these four were present save once
when Crandon allowed himself to be excluded; and at some of which
Dr. or Mrs. Richardson or both attended. In addition there were
ninet een "private " sittings of less restricted personnel and less severe
conditions.
At first, Dingwall was most enthusiastic; after several experiences
with the new teleplasmic phenomena, he wrote to Schrenck N otzing in
emphatic and unqualified endorsement of the teleplasm and the con-
ditions of control.Ga Later he receded from this viewpoint; he reached
a point beyond which he could not progress, for the simple r eason that
the success or even the application of every test which he regarded as
a crucial one was prevented. His subsequent description of what hap-
pened was that he started with the working hypothesis of validity,
found the facts leaning at first tmvard this, and retained it as long
as they did so; but that he ultimately reached a stage at which evi-
dence indicating the hypothesis of fraud began to be obtained. He
now found himself obliged to cover his indiscretion in writing t o
6 Sci. ..chn., Apr., 1925; p. 229. The statement t here print.ed had been 1·elensed to
the daily press on Feb. l.lth, and for weeks before that date McDougall had been
known by all parties concerned to hold the attitude therein expressed. See also,
M. M ., pp. 4319~440, and Chapter LII.
s"' J o1trna.l, A.S.P.R., April, 1925, pp. 226-7.
MR. DINGWALL'S ST UDY OF THE CASE 9
Schrenck by charging the latter with indiscretion in having published
this letter . Ultimat ely he reached the judgment that while neither
hypothesis could be regarded as est ablished, the evidence comport·~d
a little better with t hat of fraud than with that of validity. But the
preponderance of evidence was so slight that, despite much pressure
for a definitely adverse verdict, Dingwall would not make any exp licit
st at ement in behalf of the oblique hypothesis. As Mr. F eilding so
cleverly puts it on a lat er page 7
of the volume in which Dingwall's
report appears, their R esearch Officer found that " circumst ances led
him to box the compass of most opinions and to end with none."
So much for the face value of Dingwall's r eport. But long before
it appeared, he had got himself into the most bitter controversy with
McDougall. This I need not summarize here, save with the st at ement
that by McDougall's own admission, pressure was· brought to bear
upon Dingwall calculat ed to make his judgment conform with Mc-
Dougall's; and that Dingwall ultimately discovered l\lcDougall,
rather than himself, to be the principal in the investigation. The
history of all this is to be found in a discussion participat ed in by
Dingwall, McDougall and myself, and ext ending over a period of sev-
eral months.8
It would require no further attention here were it not
for one factor of a permanence and an importance which could not be
properly anticipated at the time when the discussion was current, and
which is therefore not sufficiently clarified therein.
Dingwall himself betrays the fact 9
that a distinctly adverse obser-
vation which McDougall claimed to have made was withheld from him
(Dingwall) for seven days, and brought to his attention then only at
the insist ence of Worcest er. Crandon had already 10
complained of
this ere post facto quality in McDougall's reporting, and I had observed
it though commenting upon it less definitely. Briefly, it appeared to
be McDougall's regular practice to leave a sitting with no word or deed
indicating any absence of complet e satisfaction; and then to turn up,
days or weeks or months thereafter, with the allegation t hat iluring
that sitting he had made this, that or the other specific damaging
observation. But while his published comment upon the mediumship
rather t eemed with this sort of thing, opportunity to criticize it as his
7 Page lo59.
s J mmwl, Ll.S.P .R., Apr., 1925, p. 190; June, 1925, pp. 29 7, 309; J"uJ,,·, l\125,
p. 361 ; Aug., 1'9125, p. 455.
9 J onntal, A .S .P.R., A ug., 1925, p. 45G.
10 Jo~t?'1l,(J)l, A .S .P .R., July, 1925, pp. 3-63-4.
10 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
general procedure rather than as a mere iterated accident did not come
until October, 1926. In that month, despite Crandon's specific demon-
stration (Note 10, above) of the evil and the inadmissibility of the
procedure, we find McDougall not merely returning to it but formally
setting it up as proper seance procedure and defending it as such.
The lengthy critique of the mediumship in which this occurs 11
must be ·
cited here as part of the permanent literature of the case. And this
episode is made a part of the present chapter because McDougall
himself has so made it.
For McDougall in many ways dominated the Dingwall study of the
case and he dictated so far as he was able the form which Dingwall's
final verdict took. Had he had his way, this verdict would have been
a categorical negative: for his own judgment is such. The material
upon which this judgment is based flows out of the Dingwall sittings,
rather than out of his prior contact with the case-even where he cites
this contact, he does so with little confidence and merely to make it
appear 12
that a continuous history of valid doubt runs back of J anu-
ary, 1925. And with this material and this verdict he has, since
February, 1925, been engaged in an earnest and studiop.s effort to
damn the mediumship in the eyes of the metapsychical world. ·In view
of the disproportionate weight which his opinion carries alike in the
public and in the scientific mind, it is necessary to emphasize, in this
summary of Dingwall's work, that neither on a basis of fact nor on one
of methodological principle does McDougall's attitude justify itself.
In the Psyche article, McDougall gives the following evidence that
.the leopard had not altered his spots since his last previous reproof by
Crandon:
I was entirely baffled by the first and second of these movements.
Fortunately during the third movement I detected what was to me
convincing evidence that the medium's head had escaped from the
control and that the disk was lifted by her mouth. I was under no
moral obligation to·report this observation in the presence of the
medium. I did not do so, and signed the notes of the sitting which
contained no mention of this critical observation. Without it the
notes seem to report a supernormal phenomenon; with it they
amount to nothing in the way of evidence. I could cite many in-
stances of this sort.
11 Psyche, Oct., 1926, p . 15.
12Journal, .A.S.P.R., April, 1925, p. 2.17.
~~
PLN!'E 1. TWO VIEWS, SHOWING THE PSYCillC COLLAPSED INTO HER CHAIR OR UPON THE ~'ABLE, Wl"l'H CRUDE, FORMLESS TELEPLASM
A.PPAlll"N'l'LY ISSUING FROM EITHER EAR. ONE OF ~'HE EARLIER STAGES OF 'l'HE ~'ELEPLA.SMIC FORMS SHOWN TO MR. DINGWALL.
PLA'l'E 2. T ELEPLASMIC MASSES, AP PARENTLY FROM NOSE (ABOVE) AND lUGH'l' EAl~
(BELOW), UNDEH OBSEHVA'J'ION OF 1'liE DINGWALL-M CD OUGALL GROUP.
PLATE 3. A MASS OF CRUDE FINGER-LIKE TELEPLAS•
M, APPARENTLY FROM 'l'IIE MOU'l.'II. THE OBSERVERS ARE MR. DINGWAJ"L (ABOVE)
AND DR. McDOUGALL (HEAD ON TABLE).
PLA'I'E 4. CRUDELY FORMED TELEPLASMIC HAND, COVERED WITH LEATHERY SKIN, AND ISSUING FROM THE PSYCHIC'S BODY.
PLA'l'E 5. CRUDE 'l'ELEPLASMIC HAND, ORIGINA'l'ING FROM 'l'HE GENI'l.'ALS, HANGING OVER
MR. DINGWALL'S HAND FOR OBSERVNL'ION IN WHI'l'E FLASHLIGHT IN THE MIDS'l' OF
A RED·LIGHT IN'l'ERVAL.
PI,ATE 6. ANO'l'HER VIEW, FROM ANOTHER ANGLE, OF TilE HAND SHOWN IN PLA'l'E 5. 'fHE PRESEN'l' VIEW SHOWS 'l'HE PSYCHIC'S
RIGHT HAND AND LEF'l' HAND CORREC'l'LY; 'l'HE O'l'HER HAS BEEN R"VERSEJ) PHO'l'OGRAPHICALL.Y A'l' SOME STAGE OF I'l'S HISTORY.
THE 'l'WO OF COURSE ARE 'l'AKEN FROM OPPOSl"l'E SIDES OF 'l'HE ROOM.
PLA'l'E 7. 'l'WO VIJi)WS, ONl" SH OWING '!'liE RE LA'l'lVJ<:l~Y WE.LL-l!'OJl,MED HAND ON 'l'HE
'l'ABLE, •nm O'l'llE.R SllO\\'ING I'l' I N MR. DINGWALL'S HA N D UNDER H IS SCIW'l'I NY.
I N BO'l'H CASES 01' BOD lLY ORIGIN AND WI'l'll CllUD I" LEA'l'llERY SKIN.
]'LA'l'E S. T wo vmws OF A DIS'l'!NC:'l'LY BE'l"l'ER·'l'H AN-USUALLY-FORMED HAND. T HE
SEc:ONO JNDICA'l'ES l'l'S ORIGIN j AND SHOWS 'l'HE '' UMBII~ICAL CORD' ' AS APPAREN'l'LY
HAVING SUFl'ERED A DOl1!3L !' FRAC1'U!lE1 '1'0 RlmNI'l'E LA'l'ERA I,LY AS A BROKEN
'l'H!G II -BONE W ILT..
.\''
'· r.
MR. DINGWALL'S STUDY OF THE CASE 11
If any reader dung, in the face of this last sentence, to the delu-
sion that the subsequent tampering with the record was not Mc-
Dougall's regular procedure, the good Professor would settle the
matter by the passages in the succeeding text in which he explicitly
confesses this to be the case, and explicitly defends the procedure in
question. The idea behind this defense is that th ~ ea: post fa cto pro-
cedure is necessary. In its absence the investigator is under an
insuperable burden, in that the fraudulent medium is kept posted about
the progress l;eing made in observation of his fraud. He is therefore
always one jump ahead of the observer, and demonstration of his fraud
is rendered impossible.
Now it is a matter for definition and discussion whether this is a
valid viewpoint. There is at least a large possibility that th~ difficulty
indicated by McDougall is one of the fundam ental problems of the
seance room, which must be met and conquered r ather than artfully
dodged. Even in the general case, and in the absence of any specific
agreement covering the matter, the obj ections to the e:L
' post facto
method which Cr andon 13
and I 14
have had occasion t o set down in
the Margery literature and which are so well known to other investi-
gators of other cases, arc very forceful and compel attention. But in
the present instance, the matter did not even rest as one of general
principle, nor was there any absence of specific agreement with r cfe r-
l nee to this important methodological factor. ·
The agreement covering the Dingwall series of sittings was not
signed by McDougall. It was, however, signed by Dingwall as osten-
sible principal, and it specifically applied to the investigator and all his
agents. McDougall having entered the case as such agent, by his own
volition, will hardly advance the cla im that this agreement did not
covet· his conduct. Among other things, it provides :
These notes shall, within the investigator's best memory, include
every fact with relation to the phenomena and the accompanying
circumstances which he regards as in any way important.
Now I need not go into the hist ory of the Houdini " exposure" to illus-
b·at e the sort of thing this was designed to prevent; nor need I repeat
the discussion cited in footnotes 13 and 14 covering the theory and
practice of the matter. To most r eaders the impropriety of the ere post
l 3 J (}unwl, A.S.P.R., July, 1925, p. B6l.
H ,Jo1tmctl, A .S.P.R., Dec., 19~5, p. 717; nlso M. M., Chn·pters XLVHI, X.Ll X.
12 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
facto exposure will be so obvious, on so many different grounds, that
discussion will be superfluous. To most investigators it has been
equally obvious. If it is not obvious, if 'the investigator's fe·2lings
parallel those of McDot;lgall which I have paraphrased from the Psyche
article, he will refrain from signing any such protocol as the one from
which I have just quoted, or from working on a case investigation of
which is governed by such protocol. Unless the investigator be
McDougall; in which event he will calmly accept the protocol and as
calmly proceed to ignore it.
At least one vigorous protest has been published, by a Margery
sitter/5
against the code of morals and the procedure here involved.
An equally vigorous protest from Dr. R. J. Tillyard 16
has gone unpub-
lished; and from it I abstract the following remarks:
If I understand Professor McDougall's claim aright, it is this:
In a seance, a man may sign beforehand a statement that he will
. faithfully mention at the end of the seance, anything which appears
to him convincing evidence of fraud; and that failing such mention,
if he signs the minutes as correct, then these are to be taken as
accurate record of the proceedings. But having signed such a
statement, and left the world to believe for a period of weeks or
months, as suits his purpose, that they a re accurate, he may sub-
sequently make the startling disclosure that he was convincedly
aw.are of .fraud all the time, but did not disclose it. I
venture to state that neither in law nor as between men of honor
can such a position be maintained. . . . In simplest words, such
things are not done. . . . Or can it be that I am so far removed
from the world's standards, so lost in the mists of mid-Victorianism,
as to have misinterpreted the moral implications of his article?
I think not. I have tried to picture the effect of similar procedure
in a case involving the good name of a fellow man in (a) my Public
School (1900); (b) my University (Cambridge, 1903); (c) the
Royal Society (1926), to which we both belong, having signed a
declaration that we would endeavor always to uphold the honor
and good name of that Society! In all three cases the reaction is
the same. . . I, therefore, have no alternative but to protest in
public, and in the strongest possible terms, against the implied
endorsement by Professor McDougall of a moral code
l s B1·-it. J ottmal Psy. Res., May-June, 1927, p. 214.
1G See Chapter XLIII for a statement of his scientific position and contact with
the mediumship. His statement here quoted from will now have appeared in Psychic
Science for July, 1928.- ·J. M. B.
MR. DINGWALL'S STUDY OF THE CASE 13
repulsive to all the instincts of an Engish gentleman,.and utterly
indefensible in law as well. I can only conclude with a quotation
from Professor McDougall himself, from the same page of his
astounding article: " In such a matter the general public neces-
sarily forms its opinion at second hand; and its opinion
must in the main depend upon the relative competence,
good faith, and absence of vitiating bias on the part of the opposed
parties." [The italics are Tillyard's. ]
I would not presume to attempt a betterment of Tillyard's remarks,
from his point of view. '.rhere is another angle of the matter, however,
which impresses my cold-blooded and mathematical mind as equally
serious. At ungentlemanly conduct by an investigator I should be
mildly grieved; but if he succeeded in proving that way something
which he could not otherwise prove, I should probably condone any
lapse that a sane man would be at all likely to commit. McDougall,
however, lapses seriously from the moral code; and by his lapse he
succeeds in proving exactly nothing except his own personal animus.
Without his superadded evidence, revealed for the first time months
after the record was closed, he himself admits that this record is one of
supernormality. With it, as he insists, the record would in truth be
valueless. But there is no way in which this condition of "with it"
may be achieved. The alleged new evidence is not part of the record
and McDougall cannot by any means soever make it so.
This would be sufficiently the case, even though the extraneous
allegations were in any way supported by citation of contemporary
documents. And McDougall's position is made just so much the worse
when we find that they are not so supported, and that failure so to
support them is again constitutional with him. As long ago as April,
1925,17 I accused him of having no records to fall back upon in support
of the extremely treacherous memory which he has shown himself ·to
possess. H e made a careful reply 18
to the article in which I did this,
but the particular reproach which I now cite he allowed to go entirely
by default.
With all this specific and general background of fact, no detailed
citation of the principles of evidence and of scientific procedure is
needed to make it wholly clear that the truth or falsity of McDougall's
new allegations is a matter of complete indifference. The only fact
17Jo·wrnal, A.S.P.R., p. 221.
lBJo~wnal, A .S.P.R., June, 1925, p. 227.
14 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
about them that in the least matters is that they are out of the picture.
True or fal~e, they may be given no attention and may be regarded as
proving nothing save McDougall's scientific ineptitude. They arise,
as the procedure giving them birth arises, .entirely out of that view-
point of distorted prejudice toward the Margery mediumship, which
he displays on every occasion. Nowhere does he make this clearer than
in the opening sentence of the Psyche article [the italics are my own]:
It ?night have been hoped that the adverse verdict of the Scien-
tific AmeTican Committee, followed as it was by Mr. Hoagland's
article in the Atlantic Monthly for November, 1925, would have
satisfied all but a few r esolute believers that the claims made on
behalf of this medium have no solid foundation.
"Ve may grant that, if the judges who have passed a negative ver-
dict are sufficiently numerous and of sufficiently obvious authority, it
might be e.r:pectecl that their judgment would become an approximately
final one. But why should one hope that this would be the case, and
deplore sadly the fact that this hope is not realized? Unless one
possess an unquenchable animus, I am sure the use of ·this word would
never occur. D emonstration of the animus is all that needs to be added
from without to the demonstration which McDougall has himself given
of bad procedure. And this whole critique of the improper J~ethods
used by him, methods without which he would be left entirely lacking
in excuse for attacking the validity of the mediumship, is given here at
such length because there has been no opportunity elsewhere to bring
the Psyche article into parallelism with McDougall's previous conduct;
and because of McDougall's unique. position as self-appointed censor
of the Margery mediumship. F rom all quarters, one hears of his
industrious propaganda in behalf of the proposition that nothing good
can come out of Lime Street. In the past, moreover, and from time
to time as we go along with the present narrative, we come to an attack
upon the mediumship, an alleged exposure, etc., etc. With the single
exception of Houdini, for whom I think I have sufficiently accounted/n
no single one of these detractors has been free from the influence of
McDougall and his associates in Harvard and the Boston Society for
Psychical Research. "Vith the one disreputable exception named, al1
anti-Margery propaganda bears these imprints. This is a factor of
the case to which due consideration must be given; for if what appear
19M. M., Chapte1·s XLVIII, XLIX.
MR. DINGWALL'S STUDY OF THE CASE 15
to be independent attacks upon Margery's validity turn out to radiate
from a single source, their weight is of course gr eatly lessened. And
if their common source turn out to be contaminat ed with inadmissible
procedure, their weight may well be reduced to zero.2
° For the evidence
that this is in fact the case, that this contamination actually exist s
(so far as this evidence can be set forth in a scientific compilation and
without undue descent into personalities) , the r eader is directed to
Chapters IX-XII, XXI, XXXI, X LIII, and (in the second volume)
LXI V-LXVII of t he present text ; as well as to certain other points
which cannot be cited at this stage of the pr esent undertaking other
than by an app eal to open reference No. 3 in the second volume. Even
in cases where the spirit of the parenthetic r emark just above p r events
the E ditor fr om t oo explicitly indicating t he linkage between the un-
favo rably disposed sitters of one or another of these refer ences, and
t he source of contaminailion of viewp oint under discussion at this
moment, the r eader who ha$ foll owed the course of the case t hrough
t he avenues of private scandal will r ecognize the connection.
2o A fuller discussio n of tht> p ropric1y of :McDougall 's proced ures woulcl mean,
among other things, .giving space to ~ contribution in his defence ; ancl it is not
possible to clo this here without un clnly clelnyh1 g the make-up of the early chapters.
I nasmuch as a IJoint of much impOTtance in psychical research is in volved, the cnse
will be reopened f or further discussion in an appendix; the reader may locate
this through open reference No. 2 in the second volume of the present text.- J. M. B.
CHAPTER III
Walter's "Talking Head"
By the Editor, and from the Seance Records
F ollowing the last Dingwall seance. on February 11th, two separat e
four-day intervals were allowed to lapse without a sitting, in order that
the P sychic might recover from the strain of the preceding six weeks ;
and the first six sittings held during this period were entirely given
over to conversation with 'Valter and to a r enewal of the old t elekinetic
habits, without trance.
During the earlier part of Dingwall's study, the t eleplasm had
been always of one particular sort ; and W alter made no claims as to
what anatomical structure it was supposed to simulate or what function
it was supposed to fill. Apparently, it was just teleplasm. At about
the time when Dingwall began to be dissatisfied with the course of
events, the character of the teleplasm began to show a change. There-
after it was always of the new sort ; and it was presented by Walter
a s an attempt at materialization of his t alking apparatus. McDou-
gall regarded this as a " red herring " drawn across the trail, to
camouflage the failure of the original program to get past the sticking
point.
To the small, lumpy, breathing, luminous masses· of teleplasm that
now appeared W alter gave the name "my talking head" ; and the
sitters shortly fell in with this terminology. Starting on F ebruar y
24th, they began a series of seances designed to pick up where Dingwall
had left off, and to cont inue the development of this t alking head. On
this evening, much of 'Valter's conversation revolved about the alleged
thoughts and act s of McDougall and 'Vorcester, and the resignation
of Prince from the American Society for Psychical Research.
..V
\T
ith the omission of such irrelevant matter, the record fol lows :
W alter said that tonight he was going to work to reproduce and
finally finish what he began for Dingwall, namely, the p roduction
of the speaking head on the table that should be visible to all. H e
said it had been coming on finely for Dingwall [paraphrase: until
the attitudes of McDougall and ' iVorcest er so disgusted him, W al-
t er, that he lost interest]. We were instructed to sit for this
16
WALTER'S " TALKING HEAD " 17
purpose on :Feb. 26, 27 and 28. The psychic was to have no sup-
per and as few clothes as possible; and Walter believed he could
then pretty well finish the head on the table, providing it with
teeth and all necessary features. VVe could put a thermometer in
the mouth. In view of the state of mind of the average observer
Walter proposes to produce hereafter, so far as possible, only such
phenomena as carry their own validity with them.
He then went on to formulate what we had already deduced,
namely, that there are many forms and consistencies of teleplasm.
The first is invisible to our eyes and entirely unable to bear any
light. The second is capable of being recorded on the photo-
graphic plate but is not visible to our eyes; it is however able to
endure red light. The third is of sufficient solidity to be visible
and palpable in red light and even in white flashlight. Then there
are other types of which we shall know later.
'iValter now went on to produce a vague sphere of luminosity
four to six inches in diameter, which danced up and down on the
table and gave out the hissing, inspiration sound which has been
heard before. This was not synchronous with Margery's breath-
ing, though it sounded nasal. The sound clearly overlapped words
spoken by her. VValter said it was his nose, "learning to breathe."
He told us to leave the red light on for half an hour, and to meet
promptly at eight o'clock on the 26th. The sitting ended at 10 :10.
There was of course no sitting on the 25th, but Crandon felt it
advisable, in view of what might come to pass during the following
three days, to record that for the preceding four ( ?) days, since the
plan for the independent speaking head had been on, Margery " has
been having constant paroxysms of sneezing, with headache, mostly
frontal. She apparently has no coryza or frontal sinus infection
[i.e., no cold], and there are no nasal polypi. Also her voice sounds
unusual, as though the nasopharynx were somewhat obstructed."
These symptoms persisted, and on March 8th, after Margery returned
from a visit to New York, 'iValter stopped the teleplasmic program
for the time on their account. Similar symptoms are noted in the
record (by Crandon) for the next seance, of February 26th: ·
The Psychic's head suffered from symptoms of sneezing, frontal
ache, and occlusion of Eustachian tubes; all without temper~ture.
Walter, asked whether these symptoms and the phenomena inter-
fered with her thinking, replied: "No, over there you use only an
ei{:"hth of your brain anyway; over here you use it all."
18 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The physical phenomena of the evening were obvious progressive
steps in the production ·of the promised speaking head. Psychic
lights, bigger than have before been seen by us, appeared over
Margery's chest and then on the table and in the space above it.
These were sometimes as large as two feet by six inches. \iVe con-
cluded that the light came from some real object, since it would
suddenly occlude, from the vision of one or another sitter, the light.
from Margery's luminous headband.1
The luminous hand was seen on the table, and later a long
upright light almost suggesting a phantom. Walter said: " That
is my shining skin outlining my form, but tonight it has no bones.
That is what a phantom is. Tomorrow bring a thermometer to put
in my mouth. This head I am making will be a real head, bones.
and all features. The stuff I am using tonight is like macaroni.
It is not transparent."
In continuaLon of the same p rogram, th-2 seance of February 27th
led to the following record:
A luminous area the size of a fi st appeared over l\1argei·y's
chest, and within five minutes shunted over to the table. Then light
trance supervened.2
· Then the mass of luminosity exhibited the
greatest physical activity: getting slowly bigger, bouncing up
from the table, occasionally spreading out like a large handker-
chief, but most of the time appearing like a vortex which would
evolute and then involute [sicJ,with a final complicated rolling and
unfolding which suggested the kneading of dough. At times black
streaks would appear on it; at others, it seemed that features could
be made out on it. Twice a globe of light four inches in diameter
came out from the region of Margery's heart or left axilla, and
rapidly joined the· big globe on the table; this accretion would be
followed by increased convolutions. At three periods the mass on
the table breathed a nasal inspiration, twelve to eighteen times, not
synchronous with :Margery's breathing, and twice overlapping her
voice murmurs in trance. This breathing and overlapping was
heard by all present. Walter said the force was fairly low tonight
but everything was going well for the big night tomorrow. This
was to be the biggest thing he had ever done for us.
1 The Crandon 1·ecords are habitually silent, sa'l'e accidentally as here, about
routine controls.-.J. M. B.
2 I infer, and CrmH1on verifies from memory, that there was no trance on the
24th and 26th.-.J. M. B.
WALTER'S " TALKING HEAD " 19
On the 27th, De Wyckoff had been present in the house, but had
been invited upstairs .to the seance only after Walter had expressly
urged his presence and had inc;licated that he would not in any way
interfere with the advantages which it was hoped to realize through
the use of a constant group of sit t ers for these teleplasmic experiments.
On the 28th, D e VVyckoff and I were pres·znt after the same procedure
of specific invitation by 'Valter. The record by Crandon:
Walter came through promptly but did not do much talking.
Almost at once a brilliant ball of light four inches in diameter with
black streaks through it as though it were convoluting, appeared
from Margery's chest and made its way to the t able top, and from
there made repeat ed bouncing excursions up and down, but never
twice in the same path. It was then apparent that Walter was
working on this sp h~re of light to differentiate out of it certain
structures. H e kept up some talk throughout the exhibition; and
finally, about 9:15,- we were able to see, on the side of the ball of
light remote from Margery, a definite skull with jaws open. The
diamet er of t)li~ skull was not over 2y
2 inches; the orbit, nose-
holes and mouth were Clearly visible to each of us except Bird. In
·turn it was directed on each of us so that each could study it; and
all saw it, those outside the circle [De VVyckoff and Bird] less well
than those inside. W'hen one complained that he could not see the
skull clearly, there came from Margery's chest a kind of canopy,
frame, or background, brilliantly lighted, precisely like those seen
around Hope's psychic extras. This attached itself to the skull
and illuminated it so all could see it.
I should have had to be present more than once under approx-
imately similar conditions before I could comment, with confidence,
upon the very much lower level taken by my observations than by those
of the others present on this evening. . The ball of light o~ the table
was unmistakably visible to me but to me it was extremely faint and
of vague outline most of the time. My impression at the time was that
this could very well be because I was considerably further from the
object than anybody else, and because it was perhaps fainter, or
wholly dark, on the side toward me. Adler and Conant, sitting in the
circle on the same side, in general terms, with me, could largely over-
come this (hypothetical) one-sidedness of the luminous object by lean-
ing forward above it ; this I could not do because of the obstruction
by t heir chairs and shoulders. W hen he made a particular effort,
20 THE -MARGERY :MEDIUMSHIP
presumably by turning the object, Walter was able to give me better
visibility, but I did not at any stage see anything which I could. hon-
estly describe as more than vague dark striations in the faintly
luminous mass. It is noteworthy that De w ·yckoff's observations for
some time were similar to mine; but that vValter was able ultimately
to make him see substantially what the others saw. Some readers will
doubtless lay this up to suggestion; but De Wyckoff's station was
considerably less remote than mine, and in a considerably different
direction. With reference to the " canopy " effect of the record, my
position would seem to be less unique; one would suppose that I should
have been able to see what any other sitter saw objectively. It seemed
to me that the brilliance and illuminating power attributed to this
part of the psychic apparatus were greatly exaggerated, perhaps in
accord with a general tendency of vValter's more immediate friends to
attach superlatives to his work. It is difficult, in any event, to under-
stand how further illumination of this precise ·character would make
more visible a faintly self-luminous object with darker mottlings. I
wondered at the time whether this supplementary cloud effect did not
rather -represent a momentary visibility of some connecting structure
that was present all the time, bridging the gap between the psychic and
the teleplasmic mass on the table.
This seance had a termination which is, I think, wholly unique in
psychical literature-superficially, at least, it was cut short by an
earthquake! The record is adequate so far as concerns the facts.
though a bit foggy about their exact sequence.
At 9:20 Margery came suddenly out of the light trance in which
she had been all the evening, and \Valter [very abruptly] said:
"Good night, I've got to go now, quick." The light was turned
on at 9:23, and at about that moment an earthquake shock was
felt which lasted about two minutes.
There was disagreement among the sitters as to when the shock was
first felt. The consensus of judgment was that no actual tremor was
observed before Walter's "good night"; but that the first vibration
of the house came almost immediately thereafter. The Weather
Bureau places the shock from 9:22 to 9 :24. The quake was a
mild one, and we were not sure whether it was really that, or an
explosion, or perhaps only very heavy traffic on Beacon or Charles
St.; until we found it impossible to get a telephone connection with any
WALTER'S "TALKING HEAD" 21
of the local observatories or weather bureaus, and were informed by
the obliging central operator that the earthquake was the reason for
the continually busy wires. The prima facie suggestion would obvi-
ously be that Walter, whether cryptesthetically or hyperesthetically
I would not venture to guess, sensed what was coming and feared the
effects upon the entranced medium or the psychic structures, or both.
If one could but produce meteorological phenomena to order one might
obtain an interesting series of parallelisms between them and the
behavior of the Psychic and her controls. In the present instance, the
question might be raised whether Walter is not in the habit of leaving
quickly and unceremoniously, as though called away by important con-
siderations of some sort; and accordingly, whether his present conduct
was in any significant way different from his habitual behavior. As a
matter of fact, however, while he very often stops the action of the
seance rather suddenly and unexpectedly to start the business of saying
"good night," it is not usual for him actually to go so quickly; he
very often hangs on, engaged in conversation, for as much as ten
minutes after one gains the first impression of his impending departure.
The sudden announcement that he must go followed by his instant going
is altogether out of his habit. Further, a number of us went through
the motions of sitting on the following night, March 1st; but after half
an hour we adjourned without any indication of 'Valter's presence.3
On the 2nd, however, he continued the program with utmost vigor:
The physical phenomena then began. The little three-inch
skull appeared on the table, brilliantly illuminated from behind.
We could hear the bones of it hit the table, then Walter would turn
it over and pound its lighted canopy on the table and that sound
was soft. Walter said that this skull was a kind of foundation,
that he was going to clothe it with flesh and features and then hlow
it up to man's size; and he added satirically: " I shall fill it with
lung and then blow it up." From the lighted mass on the· table there
kept springing up a three-foot column of light almost in shape
like a human phantom, having three brighter but poorly defined
zones at top, middle and bottom, This column not only lifted high
above the table, but moved laterally with lightning-like sp·:o!ed. It
would entirely disappear, reappear, then gradually disappear.
Following this seance there ensued a visit to New York; and when
Walter was again present in Lime Street, on March 8th, he laid over
a See open 1·eference No. 4, in Vol. 2.
22- THE MARGERY lVI-EDIUMSHIP
the teleplasmic program, as indicated above, on the ground of the
Psychic's physical condition. liVhen he again began to show tele-
plasmic effects, they were representations of a hand rather than of a
head, and their consideration may be deferred until another chapter.
In the interval between the " talking head" manifestations and those
taking the form of hands, there ensued several seances at which there
was nothing except ordinary telekinesis and conversation with vValter.
The first suggestion of an attack from a new quarter upon the problems
of teleplasmic materialization is found in the r ecord for March 12th.
The record gives no information about control. Practically the only
action which it records is this:
Walter ordered the two luminous doughnuts off the table,
whereupon he produced from Margery's body a very brightly illu-
minated mass like luminous cheesecloth, which came out into a
ball on the table, rolled around, exhibited convolutions, and lifted
up into the semblance of a phantom three feet high.
On ·the 13th Margery "was still suffering from frontal sinuses and
had just received a second subcutaneous injection of antitoxin. She
was ill but insisted upon sitting "; there was no continuance of the
new luminous manifestation. On the 14th, however, we h~,~:ve it again:
A light four or five inches in diameter came from Margery's
chest, landed on the table, and stretched out to upward-
s of thirty
inches. When so stretched, its upper and lower poles were its
brightest parts. Throughout this sitting, whenever any
physical phenomen~ occurred, Richardson controlled both Cran-
don's hands and Margery's right. Goodall maint~ined control of
Margery's left hand throughout. Strict conditions of
control as already described were maintained during all these
phenomena.
Again on the 16th, with no r ecord of control, there was a brief
physical display with lights rising in the form. of a small phantom,
to a height of three feet above.the table. In my presence on the 22nd,
control of Crandon and Margery throughout the seance was in one
way or another 4
entirely in the hands of the De liVyckoffs and myself;
there were a few weak attempts at lights. but_ ~Talter said his force
was small. On the 25th, with " all physical phenomena done under
4 Sec the complete record, p. 53.
WALTER'S "TALKING HEAD"
full control " of the two Crandons by Hale and Mrs. Richardson, and
with the additional precaution of luminous head-bands and anklets on
the Psychic, there were observed " some beautiful light phenomena,
making a ball of light on the table develop upwards of 24-30 inches."
And on the 27th, with control similarly in the hands of Arkin and
Mrs. Litzelmann throughout the seance, " there were a few light
phenomena and the sitting then closed rather abruptly." One is left
at some loss for an interpretation of these light effects. Presumably
they are to be regarded as having something to do with the teleplasmic
evolution. The obvious weakness of this statement is its horrible gen-
erality; but if it is the best we can do, this need not deter us from
making it.
The topical treatment employed in this text as in M. JV[. requires
for the better part no particular comment. Evidently one of the
results of such treatment is the complete separation, in so far as the
facts of the sittings permit it, of the t eleplasmic and the telekinetic
aspects. w·e shall find, in 1925-6 as in 1923-4, that the mediumship
is predominantly a t elekinetic one, with episodes properly recognizable
as teleplasmic occurring only at intervals and under some direct provo-
c
:ation. It may therefore be in order to indicate here that the reader
interested in pursuing in connected narrative the teleplasmic aspect
to which the present and preceding chapters have been devoted may
turn next to Chapter V; and that at the end of that chapter he will
find f urther references to facilitate his pursuit of the teleplasmic theme.
CHAPTER IV
Informal Tests of the Walter Voice
By the Editor, and from the Seance Records
An outstanding feature of Margery's mediumship has always been
the vocal phenomena; nobody can possibly attend without having ac-
tively presented to him the question whether this is really an inde~
pendent voice, and the enormous implications which an affirmative
answer thereto would carry. Chapters XI and XXXVII of M. M.
summarize alike the history of this question, and my own exposure and
reactions to it. I believe that I was justified in the attitude that the
other immediate physical problems came first, that I did not have time
to consider the vocal problem until some of these had been in some way
resolved, and that I might therefore with propriety make a working
hypothesis about the Walter voice and lay this hypothesis aside for
resurrection and test at some undefined future date.
Dr. Richardson, however, with his more easy and more frequent
attendance and his medical viewpoint, found the vocal question the
most intriguing of all the problems presented by the mediumship ; and
the one upon which he, as a scientist, might most profitably concen-
b·ate his attention. Though he has no o·fficial connection with any
organ or organization of research, he is without question the most
competent in the scientific sense of all the frequent sitters. So, more
or less automatically, there grew up the convention of regarding him
as the sitter whose wishes should receive most attention after V'ilalter's
and Crandon's had been met, and in whose hands might best be left
any continuity of program in the scientific development of the sittings.
The net result of all this was that, following hard on the Dingwall
sittings, Richardson started and for some months pursued a systematic
examination of the vocal phenomena. This took two directions: a
study of the mechanical means, presumably of teleplasmic character,
of voice production/ and an attempt to borrow from Scientific Amer-
ican procedure and demonstrate the physical independence of the voice
from the Psychic's vocal apparatus, without further question as to
what its mechanical status really was.
1 See Chapters XVI, XX.
24
I NFORMAL T EST S OF THE WALTER VOICE 25
The water test s of ·Chapter X I of M . M . and t he test s, with hand
control of the P sychic's mouth and other mouths present, of Chapter
X XXVII, offer initial suggestions fo r procedure. I have already
discussed2
the philosophy of this situation, and explained why Richard-
son's ultimate p rogram was shaped along the lines of mechanical mouth
control ; this argument I need not here repeat. The first idea which
he tried to work out involved the use of a t oy balloon, to be inflated
and held in the Psychic's mouth while vValter spoke.1
a One's initial
impression would be that this might afford a valid control, through
the hope that the whistle in the mouthpiece of the balloon would come
into play if the P sychic's mouth were sufficiently diverted from holding
the balloon to be used for speech. I n any event, it would be a p re-
liminary attack upon the problem ; modification or complet e overthrow
of the program could come as the result of experiment.
The first experiment, then, was made in the seance of F ebruary
16th, 1925. The ballqon-whistle used was the o~·dinary five-cent toy
familiar to us all. It lay in the P sychic's lap when the seance opened,
and presumably remained there while W alter chatted extensively on
various topics. T.oward the end of the seance " he said suddenly:
'Why, what is this?', and the balloon whistle sounded above the P sy-
chic's head." This phenomenon, even though constituting a diversion
of the balloon from its original purpose, and therefore open to attack
as a begging and fogging of the issue, would be of extreme interest if
we only had a more adequate description of it; for plainly the blow-
ing of a current of air through the whistle, or even the holding of t he
normally inflated balloon followed by a release, is something a little
beyond ordinary telekinesis.
The next mention of the balloon-whistle is found in the record for
March IIth. Discussing with Richardson the plans for use of this
instrument, W alter suggested an improvement : let ectch sitter have a
ball oon/ paint a big luminous cross on each, then let all sitters (and
the P sychic) inflate their balloons and hold them so with the tongue
while Walter went on t alking. In the dark, it would seem p robable
that collapse of any ba1loon would t hen be visible as well as audible :
while Walter held out t he further hope that he might be able to do
this stunt in red light, or to permit the light to be turned on without
warning while he was doing it, thus disclosing all t he balloons in their
la This instrument recurs on pp. 48, 58; but in another use.- J. M. B.
2 J ot/JI"nal, A.S.P.R., Dec., 1925, p. 680.
a To dispose of all possible confederacy .-J. M. B.
26 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
proper places and properly blown up. 'Vhen the baloon was again
tried out in the seance room, it was under less ambitious conditions.
The record for March 31st tells us:
U nder ' Valter's instructions, the Psychic took the penny whistle
in her mouth, blew it up to full capacity, stuck her tongue ,in the
pipe, and so held the balloon distended. Then Richardson said:
." ,Valter, now say 'David dug a deep trench.' " 4
' iVhereupon
' Valter immediately replied: "David dug a devilish deep trench;'
and on request for the same thing again: "David dug a damned
devilish deep trench." The voice came apparently from above the
Psychic's head. There was no squeak from the balloon, and the
luminous cross on its frontal surface showed it to remain distended.
After the test, the air was released with the usual prolonged squeal.5
The Psychic's hands were under controla during this t est and it
seemed to all sitters that the enunciation by ' iValter was even more
di stinct than usual.
Tests made on several occasions7
by all of us showed it to be
impossible to substitute lip for tongue to keep the balloon dis-
tended. Neither is it possible, apparently, for the tongue to tuck
a p iece of chewing gum into the pipe to keep the balloon distended.
Assuming that Crandon releEl-sed the Psychic's right hand, it is
apparently not in any way possible for a distended balloon with pipe
plugged by the tongue to be shifted to the fingers without an
escape of air to cause the squeak. Therefore, while it is obvious
that the test is not 100 per cent scientific, there was no doubt in
the minds of all itters that the voice had been demonstrated to
be independent of the Psychic's vocal organs.
The test was then made again at 'Valter's suggestion; and
while he was speaking, Richal'dson was told to put the back of
his hand against t he distended balloon which was in the Psychic's
mouth. He reported the balloon to be distended ; no sound came
from it; and the luminous cross in its proper shape could be seen
by all.8
During the above sitting, Walter promised Golding that on the
following evening he would add variety to the independent-voice tests
4 This sentence having been constructed to invoh·c free use of labial consona nts
such as d, t, ch.-J. M. B.
· s A useful check.-J. M. B.
a By Richru:dson and Cranclon.-J. M. B.
7 Before the sennce-J. M. B.
s The 1·ecorcl makes no showing with regard to examina tion of the whistle, prior
or subsequent to the test.-J. M. B.
I N:F ORMAL T EST S OF THE WALTER VOICE 27
by permitting a wat er test . The record for April l st shows that he
made good:
W alter came through in five minutes and appa rently in ex-
cellent spirits. There had been prepared on the t able a small glass
empt y and a big glass two-thirds full of wat er. Walter said
almost immediat ely : "Ha ! vVhiskey !" Then we heard water
pouring. The light was t urned on, with permission, and the small
glass was found full of water. It was emptied9
; then in the dark-
ness the same p henomenon was repeat ed. Then under instructions
t he P sychic fill ed her mouth wit h wat er from the big glass, and
under these conditions VValter said : "David dug a devilish deep
trench." H e then whistled long and more loudly than usual.
The record adds, at this point : "A perfect t est of the true inde-
pendence of the voice." This it obviously was not. The use of a
second glass is so that a measured amount of wat er may be taken in,
a nd this amount checked up when the subj ect returns it after the t est .
The diversion of the second glass from this use, plus the failure of
the record to specify anything a bout hand control, would have to be
remedied before the quoted comment would be in any degree justified.
The obvious and admitted dependence upon Crandon's unaided
control makes it of little point to attempt any critical discussion here,
save as a pointer for future experiment. One fact may, however, be
stressed, in view of the facility with which certain performers are ·able
to whistle through the nose. Mouth control of almost any t ype, what-
ever its value when ';yalter speaks, has no serious significance when he
merely zeJhistles.
~Talter now forgot all about the balloon t est for the time, and
for several evenings pursued the water t est in the direction of increased
r igor. Thus this t est was repeat ed on the 3rd (Ap ril) , and in the
repetition the criticisrns immediately above were met. The record
t ells us :
Walter came in about t en minutes in excellent spirits. H e first
did the wat er test to prove the independence of the voice. The
P sychic filled her mouth with water, after which VValter said with
great distinctness : "I have dug a deep trench for mine enemies,"
a nd then whistled beautifully. The P sychic then ej ected the water
into a measuring glass, and it was found to be the same amount
n By the sitters.- J. M. B.
28 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
that she had taken in. Perceiving apparently that Costikian was
not wholly convinced, Walter then instructed us to have everyone
fill his mouth with water and repeat the test. This was done; and
he spoke and whistled with equal ease and distinctness. This was
most impressive to all because before the sitting everyone had tried
speaking and whist] ing with mouth filled with water, and all had
found it impossible.
The water test had been given on Ap ril 2nd, at t he Richardson resi-
dence (sec page 70) ; it was repeated on the 4th, in Lime Street:
Walter instructed us to proceed on the water test of the inde-
pendent voice. Martin had tried before the sitting, to test the
imp ossibility of one's normally speaking or whistling with mouth
full of wat er.
The Psychic's mouth was filled with water, taking all the water
there was in the [secondaryJ whiskey glass. The original big
[reservoirJ glass of water was put, under ~Talter's instructions, by
Martin behind his own chair. The empty whiskey glass to r eceive
the rej ected water later, was put in Martin's pocket. The light
was then put out and Walter spoke, saying "Hello ! Do you hear
that ? David dug a devilish deep trench." He then rapped three
times on the cabinet as a signal to put on the light and let the
Psychic empty her mouth. This she did, bringing forth the same
amount she had taken, about two-thirds of the capacity of the
whiskey glass.10
This record is to be recognized as a very satisfactory one; it can
be attacked only on the ground that it falsifies, or that hand control
of the P sychic was relaxed to permit her to use a rubber bulb or some-
thing of the sort as a temporary receptacle for the water. I think
the water t est in its very nature remains open to these alternatives so
long as it is not conducted in full light. Assuming that it cannot be
(as in fact it was not ever ) so conducted, we have got as far with it
as we can ever get; except that by citing its repetition before new
sitters we to some degree make more difficult the two explanations which
remain open. It was so repeated, on April 5th, on which occasion
there came, in what appeared to be a female voice, the sharp
query from the cabinet: "Don't you hear the voice?" to which \iValter
10 Richardson joins ·with Crand-on in the oral statement ·to me that this returned
water was m:unistakably free from all trace of the stomachic conte11t and stomachic
odor which would necessm·ily be present following regurgitation.-J. M. B.
INFORMAL TESTS OF THE WALTER VOICE 29
at once added: "That's Nannie," 11
The voice was also credited with
being louder here than at any previous water test. The record speaks
of "strict control conditions," without further specifying what these
were. I suppose we are privileged to interpret the remark in the light
of the record of April 4th, showing as this does the appreciation of
what control is necessary in connection with the water test.
After a blank on April 7th, in the presence of Mr. Roy Holmyard
of Cincinnati, a prominent member of the American Society with much
experience here and abroad, a successful sitting on the 8th resulted in
Holmyard's being exposed to the water test:
,
He then gave Holmya-rd and the other strangers the water test
for the independ.ent voice, with great brilliancy and under strict
conditi0ns. The strangers had tried it on themselves before the
sitting. The Psychic took two-thirds of a whiskey glass of water
into her mouth; the empty glass was given to Holmyard, and the
big glass was put by Holmyard on the floor behind his chair.
Further narrowing of the residual possibilities of fraud was sought
on April lOth, for which date we are told:
Then Walter proceeded with the water test of the independent
voice. The Psychic's clothes were searched for receptacles, and
Millea put in his pocket the empty glass from which she had taken
the water. After her mouth was full and the light was out, Walter
proceeded to sing a song [of his own composition] and to make
several other remarks with perfect distinctness; and he threw in
a whistle for good measure. The Psychic then ejected the same
amount of water taken in.
On the 11th, in what one judges to be the most S
·atisfactory of all
the water test's to date, an approximation was made to its prosecution
in the light. Another program had been planned, but Walter receded ·
from this:
The implication was that the conditions were not favorable for
hand-making, but he announced that he would settle the question
of the independent voice by a clear-cut test. Accordingly the
Psychic went into trance, this being accomplished almost instan-
taneously; and in this condition she filled h~.~· mouth from the small
glass of water which Crandon held to her hps. Martin placed the
empty glass in his pocket, and \Valter then whistled and spoke
11 A deceased relative of one of the sitters.
30 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
with exceptional cleverness. He then said : "You rnay turn on the
red light/2
but don't go poking about in the cabinet. Don't worry
about the medium. Her instinct protects her." This last was
thought to refer to the possibility of her choking while in trance
with a mouthful of water. Later he said: "She could not have
choked because I took away her swallowing apparatus." Red light
was on until after she had ej ected the water.
On April 12th, he again gave the water test, the record citing the
performance only by title. Much the same may be said of another
repetition of this test which was staged on April 18th, only the pres-
ence of w·alton making the incident of more than ordinary interest.
And after this date, we find nothing further to record in the way of
voice tests until we come to Richardson's formal attack upon the prob-
lem of a mechanical control for the Psychic's mouth, as chronicled In
Chapter XX.
1 2 May we not assume the presence of trance to have been the determining factor
permitting this ~-J. M. B.
CHAPTER V
The Teleplasmic Hand
By the Editor, and from the Seance Records
As we have seen/ the first series of t eleplasmic manifestations fol-
lowing Dingwall's depa rture fell int o char act er with the attempt ed
mat erialization of the " t alking head " which had marked his lat er
seances. In early March vValter suspended this,2
and the only t ele-
plasmic suggestion of the few seances immediat ely following lay 3
in
c"ertain marked luminous eit'ects free from anatomical context. The
first suggestion of a new chapt er in the t eleplasmic sequence antedat es
the older chapt er, going back as far as February 23rd. On this dat e
the record t ells us that there was seen "outlined against the luminous
doughnut 4
the shadow of the finger-like processes " with which ' Valter
works. The following night , " in all the work on this luminous appa-
ratus/ W alter's t erminal was seen like a black-pointed mitten, and
frequently was seen to be at the end of a long black arm coming from
the direction of Ma rgery's body."
This systematic silhouetting effect is now for the first time met in
Margery's seance-room because it is only now that we have free illumi-
nation of the articles used in t elekinesis. Of old, luminous p aint was
employed r egularly on the ends of the curtain pole, and occasionally
in other connections ; and very occasionally, one of 'iValter's own
psychic lights afforded means for the silhouetting effect. But the
psychic t erminals, whatever their character, wer e p roj ect ed and used
for the most part in absolute darkness. Doubtless it was with the
very intent of provoking this shadowgraphing effect that Dingwall
introduced the luminous doughnut and the luminous basket, and
painted luminous bands around the ends of the megaphone.4
The
result was immediate, as his own records show ; and of course the silhou-
etting of the t erminals against the bright backgrounds continued after
his departure, with the continued use of his appar atus and t echnique.
The effect continues to be chronicled, in some but not all of the sittings
at which t elekinesis occurred; a t ypical entry being that for April 4th,
1 Chapter III.
2 P p. 21-2.
s Pp. 22-3.
4 See page 47.
31
32 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
jn which the description of telekinetic effects is accompanied by the
statement: " Several times during the work on the luminous objects 4
the black outline of the terminal could be plainly seen by all."
At this stage, there was resurrected, for rather persistent use,
an instrument which had been met only casually in Margery's seance
room of prior dates. Two rectangular slabs of cardboard, the one
19 x10 inches and the other 12 x 10, were completely coated, on one face
of each, with luminous paint, and at the seance of April 11th were
introduced to Walter. The idea was to leave them flat on the table,
where \iValter, by passing his terminal over or placing it upon them,
could produce the silhouette effect. In practice, he was rather more
likely than not to pick up the " plaques," as they came to be called,
and carry them about the room telekinetically. Even in doing this,
however, owing to the complete illumination of the entire surface, the
silhouetting of the grasping member was by far of more interest than
the mere levitation; so I catalog such action here rather than else-
where. The record for the 11th tells us:
He then gave an exhibition of his terminal, as seen over the
illuminated plaque, both large and small; his " arm" and "fin-
ger " 5
were plainly visible. He carried the plaque all around the
table, at different angles, and nearly across to Donnell, saying
that the latter's psychic force 6
helped him to move it so far.
Again on the 12th we have a record from which the following
excerpts are pertinent in the present connection:
All the rest of the phenomena of the evening were done under
double control: Goodall having both the Psychic's hands, Miss
Pierce both Crandon's, hands and his head. The luminous
plaque was used. Walter lifted it, waved it all over the region of
the top of the table as high as two feet above the table, and con-
stantly we could see the outline in black of his thumb and terminal
as he held the plaque. The control was irreproachable.
On April 18th, we are told, "\iValter's visible terminal was seen
in shadow over the illuminated plaque." Again on the 19th the same
phenomenon is mentioned by title only; and continuous double control
4 See page 47.
r, Th e quotes are not mine, they occur in the original record, to indicate that
these are terms merely descriptive of the visual effect, and not actual claims as to
the character of what was seen.-J. M. B.
o See open reference No. 5, Vol. 2.
THE TELEPLASMIC HAND 33
IS stated to have been in effect. The record for the 20th goes more
into detail:
After some good whistling and personal chat, VValter said: "I
have a new idea. L eave the light going and all of you go down-
stairs for t en minutes ; then perhaps I will do something for you."
This was done; and on our return W alter directed the luminous
plaque to be put on the table. Then under strict conditions of
control of the Psychic's head, hands and feet/ Walter's hand came
out over the luminous plaque and played for t en minutes as it might
on a piano, keeping time to his whistling of a jig tune. The hand
was relatively crude, with short fingers. It was a right hand, and
resembled the one we have seen and photographed in r ed light.8
Again on the 21st, under control which is described in detail m
another place, the static silhouetting was given:
The luminous plaque, laid horizontally, was then used to show
the complete silhouette of W alter's right hand, visible to and
described by all. It was a somewhat crude hand, with short fingers,
but the fact that it was a right was obvious to all. The plaque
was then held successively by Dennett and Adler, bent, lifted, and
pulled away from them [by Walter].
The next repetition of this phenomenon was before the same very
small and wholly friendly audience to which it had first been offered.
The date was April 23rd, and the r ecord reads:
He then proceeded to show us his hand again over the luminous
plaque. It was a right hand, with short fingers. The sulcus
between thumb and forefinger was very deep, the whole closely
resembling the hands seen in the Dingwall sittings and likened by
McDougall to " surgically manipulated animal lung tissue." In
other words it was not a human hand but obviously a crude attempt
at a hand. It was very lovely, however,9
and played a merry tune
to Walter's whistling, using the fingers as they would be used on
a p1ano. Crandon remarked that the little finger looked distorted
7 Of course only Adler and Crandon were available for this.-J. M. B.
a In the Dingwall seances; see the photographs of Chapter II.
9 I incorporate this passage of the original record with full knowledge that it
will be regarded by hostile critics as showing an in correct mental attitude on
Crandon's p art; m1d with some sympathy f or this criticism. See M. M., p. 2·19,
where I remark upon the adj ectives habitually applied ·by Crandon to Walter's
whistling. For Crandon's comment here, see open ref erence No. 6, Vol. 2.-J. M. B.
34 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
and dead. ~ralter replied: "Yes; if I had more force I could
make the hand perfect."
On the 24th, after the hand had been seen in incidental silhouette
on the circular platform of the Dingwall bell-box/0
the set demonstra-
tion of the silhouetting was put on:
'iValter then asked for the luminous plaque, and bent and
twisted it while it was held by Andrews, his terminal being seen
pulling and holding the edge of the plaque. The plaque was then
put on the far west corner of the table 11
and Walter put his whole
hand out over it- obviously a right hand with short fingers, more
or less crudely formed-and there went through the motions of
piano playing.
This, of course, begins to be important. VVe have for the first
time the possibility of seeking outside t estimony that this silhouetted
obj ect was of the form of a crude hand, was alive, was apparently not
the Psychic's hand or foot. This possibility arises again in connection
with the seance of the 25th; and in addition, the psychic student meets
there the further complication of trance:
The Psychic had no supper and was entirely disrobed except
for a bathrobe and stockings. She was searched by Mrs. Fessen-
den before the sitting. ·walter came through at once, and imme-
diately asked to have the Scientific American bell-box put on the
table; then he immediately ordered it off again. A rustling sound
was heard in the Psychic's lap. Walter then asked for the lumi-
nous plaque to be put on the table, and almost immediately showed
the shad·ow of his complete right hand and wrist above it. It was
then discovered that the Psychic was in trance. Martin was
instructed to feel the hand, which now rest ed on the plaque. In
the dark he did so, describing it as cold (about 40° Fahrenheit)
and soft like a baby's hand.
I presume the rustling in the Psychic's lap will here be taken, alike
by proponent and opponent of the hypothesis of validity, as indication
that the hand was something independent of the Psychic's four normal
extremities, and that it was actually brought forth in the fashion
10 See page 118.
11 As remote from the Psychic as could ·be, and in the region occupied by the
strangers, Andrews and t he Hales.-J. M. B.
-
THE TEJ-'EPLASMIC HA.ND 35
which Dingwall described in his records and which so well comports
lvith both hypotheses. It is not, then, especially pertinent to cite the
presence of stockings, save as these would prevent the feet from being
used to manipulate the extra hand; and it is pertinent to lament the
absence of recorded independent motion by the hand. The record goes
on with a most interesting further description of visibility of the hand
in red light, but independent movement apparently continued to be
Jacking:
Something was heard in the dark to flop on the table like a
fish-tail, and then under '¥alter's instructions dim red light was
given. All sitters saw a rather poorly formed right hand and
forearm, pinkish white in tint and covered with an obviously human-
appearing skin. No finger-nails could be identified. The forearm
appeared shrunken like that of a famine victim. The total length
·of hand with forearm was some fifteen inches; and at the edge of
the table it was connected with a cord extending d"
own into the
opening in front of the Psychic's robe and toward her abdomen.
Then under instructions each sitter felt of the hand, squeezing it
as much as he wanted to. '¥alter particularly told us to feel the
bones in the middle and little fingers. Crandon described it as
b eing obviously a phalanx, with shaft and a large knob at each end.
Each finger contained two of these, but not three.12
The ends of
the fingei·s were soft,13
there was no bone in the body of the hand
itself, and apparently none in the forearm. In fact the whole
materialization seemed to be that of a hand containing some but
not all of the bones. The skin was soft and had the usual wrinkles;
no veins appeared. On Mrs. Fessenden's exclaiming: "My, how
cold it is." 'i\Talter's reply suggested that this was to be expected.
I may here remark that this coldness, continuing long after the
J>roduction of the hand, affords one of the major obstacles to the belief
that this is a normal artificial object, brought forth from the obvious
locus of anatomical concealment. One adverse critic was sufficiently
impressed by this argument to postulate a refrigerating instrumen-
tality of some sort, which remained concealed in the region whence
the hand came!
The record (still of April 25th) now passes on to action which
offers a large hope that there was really involved an independent motion
12 The human hand contains thl'ee in each finger .- J. M. B.
13 Doubtless because of the missing third phalangeal bone.-J. M. B.
36 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of the hand. Although the next paragraph might well be regarded
as part of the bell-box chapters, I give it here for two reasons: it
seems equally to belong here, and with it here we may present the
·. complete record of this interesting and important seance all in
one place:
Then on r equest the bell-box 14
was again put on the table, in
a position the other side of the end 'from the P sychicY The light
was put out. T en seconds later we heard a flop again; and when
the light went on the hand was on top of the box flapper, bent
at the wrist, the forearm hanging down the P sychic's side of the
box and the table ; 'Valter having moved the box so that its edge
was at the Psychic's edge of the table. In the red light the hand
then rang the bell-box. In the dark, Walter next said he would
ring the bell a requested number of times. Then with the light
on, Walter with the visible hand rang the bell-box the number of
times requested by Martin; and then, after a brief period of dark-
ness, again in the light the number of times requested by Mrs.
F essenden. The box rang only when requested. Walter asked
Crandon to make the spring stronger; Crandon replied that it
was not necessary for evidentiaL purposes. " Very well," said
Walter, "I'll do it myself." And he apparently did it, for next
time we saw the bell ring the excursion of the flapper was greater
than before.15
a
After five seconds of darkness, we observed again in the red
light that W alter's hand had seized the luminous basket, and then
in the red light we all saw his hand move the basket and tip it over.
In the next red light, we found that Walter had put the luminous
doughnut on the finger of the visible hand; and in red light he then
waved it to and fro.
Following Martin's request, 'i\Talter's hand was thrown on top
of Martin's. Later it was thrown over to cover Martin's hand com-
bined with the Psychic's, near the west wing of the cabinet and
not over the tr,~,ble. This 16
was then shown us in bright red light.
Then following instructions, Martin took the luminous dough-
nut between his left thumb and forefinger. In bright red light,
Walter's hand took the doughnut from him between his thumb and
14 Scientific American moclel ; see p. lHi.
1s This is t he way the record reacls : Crandon in May, 1927, says t hat it means
on the side of the truble remote from the Psychic, and at the corner, on that sicle,
which was slightly furth er from her than its mate.-J. M. B.
15a Cf. the theory of fraucl outlined on p. 119.-J. .M. B.
16 The position fin ally attained; not thA action of attai11i11 g it.-J. M. B.
THE TELEPLASMIC HAND 3'7
forefinger, and waved it twice in air. After this \IValter
remarked :17
The Psychic then came out of trance, and Walter sang and
whistled and answered questions by Mrs. Fessenden and told us
about fourth-dimensional 18
ethics. H e said there are only two
sins there: suicide, and hurting the other fellow.
The above record is complete, save for \IValter's thrusts at \Vor-
cester and McDougall which I have deleted from public presentation.
And again on the 28th, before a different group of sitters, there·
occurred a seance revolving so wholly about the presence and behavior
of the materialized hand that we may present· in this place the entire
record, minus such of Walter's conversation as may need to be
suppressed:
The Psychic was disrobed except for bathrobe and stockings.
~Talter came through in about five minutes, in cheerful mood. He
talked with us for about ten minutes, and said he was going to
try to slj.ow us phenomena ·in red light. Thereupon, trance came on.
Within two minutes \Valter called for red light, his voice com-
ing between the snores of the Psychic. The dim red light revealed
a white hand, crudely formed, on the Psychic's edge of the table.
It was a right hand; the palm was shrivelled and the fingers were
not in good proportion. The thumb was toward the west. Later
in the sitting it was obviously a left hand, palm down, with thumb
to the east. Throughout the sitting the control of the Psychic's
two hands was unbroken and these hands could be seen plainly
during all the red-light periods. In about the third period of
exposure of the hand to five seconds of red light, it had been
shoved further out upon the table until, with the forearm, it meas-
ured some fifteen inches in length. The only movements we saw
of it as a whole were toward the Psychic, and were always accom-
panied by tremors of the cord. The cord was round and twisted
like stick candy; an inch and a half in diameter.19
In red light each
sitter was allowed to feel of the fingers, and. each was directed to
feel the phalangeal bones in each finger. There were apparently
17 I take the liberty of expunging his remarks, which were most uncomplimentary
to cer tain former sitters.- J. M. K
18 Crandon and Walter both regard Walter as living in a four-dimensional
worlcl.- J. M. B.
19 Almost certainly a.n over-estimate. I find a large tendency to under-estimate
small fractions of an inch in the seance Toom, and to overshoot the mark on
dimensions of an inch or two. Crandon agrees with all this.-J. M. B.
38 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
two, not three, in each finger, but none in the palm or forearm.20
In all we were g iven twenty-five exposures to bright red light,
varying from three to twenty seconds. '~Te were told to feel the
skin. It was thick and soft, but had every feel of human skin.
It could be lifted off the subcuticular tissues. In the dark thP
hand was flopped over on the hands of Dennett, Mrs. Yerxa and
Mrs. Dennett successively, palm to palm; and then on two hands
combined in r ed light.21
To further demonstrate the bony stiffness of the fingers, in
the dark the hand went over to Dennett's right hand holding the
Psychic's left, and \Valter's finger was poked first into the back
of Dennett's hand and then into his palm. Dennett estimated the
pressure at a quarter-pound. In long exposure to red light, the
hand grew smaller in a kind of shrivelly amebic manner; in the dark
it grew bigger again. In no two exposures did it seem to be
exactly the same size.22
One disproportionately large middle finger
grew out towa rd Adler.2
H The skin always felt cool.
On request, Dennett put his watch and chain on the table.
'~! alter's hand was then shown clasping this, and later shown again
with the watch on the back of '~Talter's wrist.2
-t ' ¥alter's fingers,
when they had just picked up something, seemed to be shorter,
thinner, and more pointed. In one pose in red light, three fingers
were seen poked through the hole in the doughnut. The next time,
a thumb was stuck through this whole.
The hand was seen ,to ring the bell-box 2
" the number of times
r equested by Dennett and then by Mrs. D nnett- five and three
times, respectively. "T
e could see the excursion of the bell-box
fl apper as the bell rang, and we could see the cord contracted in,
as a whole, as though made up of separate longitudinal fibers.
Walter now said he would show how he did some things in the
dark. The big megaphone was placed erect on the table, and the
light turned on. The hand was seen on top of the megaphone; it
pulled this over to the P sychic's edge of the table, the hand going
20 Thus ~orresponcling closely with the hand of the 25th.-J. M. B.
21 Of what sitters, the record fails to state.-J. M. B.
22 When we have two or t hree successive exposures with markedly different
aspect, Dingwall YCJ'Y justly wams us against too hastily assuming t hat these are
different aspects of tho sa111 e ob.iect; but if we ma.y take this record at its face
value, this suggestion would here require altogether too wide a supply of clandestine
material.- J . M. B.
23 It is not clear to me whether this is to apply to the entire series of exposmes
of the hand, the worcl "grew" being interpreted statically; or whether it refers
to a dynamic phenomenon of one or two successive e;...lJOSures.-J . M. B.
24 Are we to assume that it was a 'nistwatch ¥-J. M. B. Ycs.- L. R. G. C.
2r. Scientific American model.
THE TELEPLASMIC HAND 39
with it and the two falling together in a heap into her lap. In
red light we saw the hand holding the side handle of the big mega-
phone, and then rolling it back and forth. Trance ended at 10:15.
Walter then sang, whistled and talked. It is a pity that it
could not all be recorded; some of his sayings follow:
Never inflict your will on any one else, except an untrained
child. It's terrible. Two free wills in a house are better than
one. Make harmony your pet; keep it around. Tame it, have
music in your home.
'iVhen you sit i'n a chair, twice as much of you as is seen is all
around you, making an aura of about a foot in thickness. I make
my invisible hand out of the Kid's aura. These sittings are fine
preparation for a four-dimensional life. There are two funda-
mentals in preparing for the next life: telling the truth, and
self-control. If your mind is prepared from the first, you will
never have to suffer homesickness as I did.
He directed us hereafter to sit only three times a week: Tues-
day, Thursday and Saturday; with possibly an informal sitting
on Sunday.
On the 29th, a group of the old friends, Brown, Adler, etc., sat in
the hope of seeing materialization of the sort recorded above; but
Walter came through in ten minutes and said his force was low; that
he would be unable to do materialization tonight, butl would try to do
it on May ·3rd for the same group.
For May 1st, an engagement had been made to sit in Lime Stree~
with the Code-Hoagland group from Harvard 26
; and Crandon's record
indicates that they were exposed to the materialized hand:
Walter came through with whistle and voice, immediate and
strong. · He asked if all sitters were instructed as to behavior.
Then trance came on.
Damon was told to put his hand on something vaguely seen
near the luminous plaque. He did so, and felt four finger-like
processes of a mass; cold and firm but soft and clammy. Then
Walter ordered red light for three seconds; then in a second period
of red light each sitter in order felt a.ud pressed down on the
teleplasmic hand. There were four such exposures, and the hand
was examined by all sitters. The second time the wrist muscles were
felt; another time, the firm core in the wrist was felt by all, and
also tendons which slipped under the exploring finger like the
2G See Chapter IX.
40 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
drumstick of a fowl. The temperature· was that of a dead fowl.27
All believed they felt the tension of tendons; four saw the thumb
(near Damon) moved independently; the rest of the mass did not
move at the same time. Damon and Hillyer saw two nails on
the fingers.
The hand moved in every direction; it moved the luminous
doughnut in a cii:cular path with a diameter of some six inches.
The palm was shown lifted off the table with acute flexion at the
wrist, the finger ends remaining on the table. The wrist in the
light extended at an angle of 45°. ·There were in all about ten
exposures in red light showing the teleplasmic hand-the longest
of thirty seconds, the shortest of three seconds.
Crandon went to the telephone. Code was told to put the
doughnut on the table. He put it on the middle of the table; then
Walter made him put it against the teleplasmic hand. The hand
then picked it up and turned it over and the thumb and finger
grabbed it. Before this .the Psychic forced Damon's right hand
in hers down hard on VValter's hand and said: " It hurts here."
She did this again twice, later. Then Walter asked Hillyer to.
turn the doughnut bright side up and shove .it over toward the
t eleplasmic hand. Then the hand picked it up again. During all
this time Hoagland had the Psychic's right hand, the one usually
held by Crandon; and the Psychic's head-band was observed con-
stantly by Hillyer. w·alter's hand was put on Hillyer's.
In the dark, with .the Dingwall bell-box, the black 28
hand could
be seen ringing it by dropping upon the luminous platform; and
at one time, it seemed as though a second psychic structure were
in contact with the bell-box top, from Damon's aspect thereof.
The speed of action here prevented absolute verification of Hoag-
land's triple control.2
!) T he bell-box top got stuck and Damon
fixed it twice. The weight of \i\Talter's hand pressed it down side-
ways, and vValter finally order ed it off the table, in disgust. Then
came more work with the luminous doughnut. Then the doughnut
was put on the floor by Damon and later was ordered into the
basket. \iValter's hand touched Damon, and then the basket with
thP. doughnut in it was levitated and waved about at the height
of one foot over the top of the table, and then thrown to hit
Hoagland's right shoulder.
·\iValter said, in ef-l'ect: Here's a 111o2ssage for the Professor.
Tell him we have some goats ove r here with lungs with bones in
27 A totally uni n:l'orming stntemcnt. of conrse.- J . M . 13.
28 Black in silhouette in the cl nrk.- .J. M. B .
20 Of Or:mrlon 's two hnnrl s "."ii the p , yelde 's rig id .
THE TELEPLASMIC HAND 41
them; but over on your side they are not always goats, they are:
herring-chokers. Tell him we have a modern Hell-oil-burners..
T ell hmt to take his friend Houdini to the Harvard Club again.3
0'
T ell him I'd have more backbone than that, even if I were a pool'
fish. McDougall couldn't do any better without changing the
philosophy of a life-time.31
Tell him the Kid carries equipment
in her insides of a little ice-box, a pair of bellows, and six lungs
with bones in them. She chews liver for a cud ;32
she has insides
as big as a cow.33
The above record IS given complete, save as indicated. Though
drawn by Crandon, it is subject to attack only by showing how the
observations which it records could have been provoked, under the
conditions recorded, through fraudulent production of the phenomena;
for it carries the signatures of £~ll five sitte1'S, a,ll of whom have u-lti-
mately rejected in detail the hypothesis of genuineness. It may also
be emphasized that when Crandon goes to the telephone, he leaves the
room entirely; and that under these conditions the phenomena con-
tinued-for how long, we are prevented from saying by the unfortunate
failure to record the moment of his return.
On May 2nd, the materialized hand again performed, but only as
an incident in a seance of general character; and, so far as I can
conclude from the failure of the record to mention onset, emergence,
or incidentals thereof, without trance:
Some very fine work was now done with the plaque and the
Dingwall bell. '\Valter repeatedly showed his hand, ringing the
bell and drumming on the plaque. The fingers were of unequal
length and shape, but unmistakably it was a hand; and five times
it was seen to descend upon the platform of the bell and hit it a
resounding whack. As it approached the lighted disk each time,
it was illuminated on the under side apparently. 'Valter whistled
while the fingers made as if to play on the piano. Th·::! plaque was
held in turn by Miner and Leavitt, and ' Valter took it from them,
showing plainly his terminal over the edge. All the dark
30 'rhe refere11ce is to one or more occasions on which McDougall entertained
Houdini at this Club. Houdini boasted far and wide about it; McDougall confided
to some of his acquaintances tlmt he did it because he found Houdini's psychology
so absorbing.-J. M. B.
31M. M., p. 47•
6·.
32 Jowrnal, .t!.S.P.R., Apr., 1925; p. 198, index (40•
).
33 E tc., etc.; I give this humor only so far as it seems to me to be inoffensive.
-J.M.B.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
phenomena were done during double control, plus control of Cran-
don's head by Leavitt; and the Psychic wore her usual illuminated
head-band and anklets.
On May 3rd, with a wholly friendly group:
w·alter said that he could not produce the visible teleplasm
tonight because there were so many nerves around; but he would
do something just as good. Besides his usual brilliant levitations
of the luminous big megaphone, the~ring and the basket, he gave
various exhibibons of ringing the Dingwall bell-box, bringing his
whole hand visibly down with force on the top thereof. The hand
was better formed than the one we see in red light; and 'iValter
said of it : "Yes, that's the one I use in the paraffin work." He
picked a handkerchief off the plaque; he showed his whole forearm,
wrist and hand in full length along the plaque.
On May 4th, Walter " showed his whole hand hitting the Dingwall
bell-box twenty times, ·and showed us his hand over the luminous plaque
five times, perfect in outline-a right hand." And May 5th brought
another group of friendly sitters, to whom :
V\! alter said that he could do nothing in the red light tonight,
because his material tonight was gummy or sticky. And sure
enough, when later we had contacts on face and hands the tele- ·
plasmic hand was very cold and sticky; and when 'iValter wished
to pick up the luminous doughnut he had only to slap his hand
down on it, and then lift it up adherent to his palm. He then
did some very fine exhibition of the hand over the luminous dough-
nut and plaque. Over the latter the hand could be seen as high
up as six inches above the plaque, waving gracefully, coming down
on the plaque as though playing the piano; while Walter kept up
a lively whistling to fit the motions. He gave numerous contacts
of his teleplasmic hand with all the sitters.
On May 8th, in a seance given mainly to bell-box and telekinetic
work, 'iValter none the less "proceeded to show in a most wonderful
and distinct manner his whole hand ringing the Dingwall bell-box
by means of the luminous top. This was clear, was repeated nine
times, and was seen by everybody." Again on the 13th, "he rang
Dingwall's bell-box showing his hand completely over the luminous
top; and each time it rang with a loud crash. He showed us his hand
as though it were playing a piano, over the luminous plaque."
THE TELEPLASMIC HAND 43
For no reason that appears in the records, the-luminous silhouet-
ting now ceased for some time to be a feature of the Lime Street
seances ; though occurring with increasing freedom in the Cambridge
seances under the jurisdiction of the young men from Harvard.34
Similarly for no recorded reason, there came along two seances at
which a heavy concentration of psychic lights was observed. On
May 30th:
Walter then gave us a psychic light, long and willowy and
undulating, rising as high as a continuous column four feet high
from the floor, again crumpling like a luminous cloth to the floor.
For the most part, the light went over by Mrs. [Richard] Mans-
field's left knee; and it there stayed nine minutes, constantly
touching and patting her knee.
It was doubtless much the same sort of demonstration that led, in
the record for May 31st, to the extremely inadequate statement: "The
exhibition of psychic lights was very striking."
When, as appears usually to be the case in this mediumship, tele-
kinesis is executed through the use of a teleplasmic terminal which is
in some degree visible and tangible, it must always be difficult to draw
the line between the telekinetic manifestations, and the display of the
terminal to the sitters' sight or to their touch as an end in itself.
A good deal of contact between the sitters and the terminals which
might reasonably enough be regarded as belonging in the present part
of the story, I deal with under the telekinetic heading. But a little
above, where the contacts involved a verdict by the sitters as to the
apparent consistency of the teleplasm, I have classified the episode in
the teleplasmic group. Similarly, we may here incorporate the
experience which is described in the record for June lith, even though
it very closely overlaps ordinary telekinesis:
In the dark, Walter did his telekinesis of all the luminous
objects with wonderful levitation.3
" As a new act, he put the
luminous doughnut on his [teleplasmicJ finger and whirled it about.
He showed his hand over the doughnut and over the Dingwall bell-
34 See Chapter IX.
35 One can, if one wishes, differentiate between ordinary telekinesis of which
motion across the table is typical; and levitation, when the object is actually carried
about the room in defiance of gravitation. Telekinesis in general may defy gravity
but need not do so; when it does so, if we seek a special name, we find it in levi-
tation, which thus becomes a pa1·ticular categm·y of telekinesis.- J. M. B.
44 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
box top; and he repeatedly touched the three strangers, on request,
on their hands. Day also got several touches on the forehead, as
did Crandon. H e ruffled and pulled the hair of the three
strangers 36
at their request. The teleplasm was very cold and
gave the sensation of being wet. After one's skin had been touched
by it, the cold, moist feeling persisted for several minutes.
On June 15th, we return to the silhouetting, of the terminal. The
record is a trifle puzzling, making a distinction which might well seem
not to exist, and which Crandon agrees with me should not have been
made. Presumably the platform of the bell-box was brighter than
usual, so that a more clean-cut silhouetting was obtained; also, a closer
approach to actual illumination of the hand as it approached the
luminous stu·face. In any event, whatever the p recise interpretation
we give it, the record tells us, the italics being mine in connection with
the foregoing comment:
w·alt er rang the Dingwall bell-box and we saw not the shadow
of his ha.nd bu,t the act1
utl hrmrl- four fingers and thumb-against
the luminous platfomt of the box. A ha ndkerchief was put over
the platform to rlim it a, bit; and Walter held his hand over this
and picked up the handkerchief. H e said in answer to questions
that the hand was connected to the Psychic by an invisible cord.
vValter directed Laura Crandon to place her head, face down, on
the platform ; he then touched her face with his hand. It felt
cold and 1110ist.
For June 28th, in place of the more familiar luminous plaque or
luminous platform of the bell-box, there had be,~n prepar ed, for Lime
Street use in imitation of H arvard technique, a new luminous coordi-
nate board, with one-inch squares.37
This was so newly made that the
luminous paint was hardly dry; and its use led to the following striking
record:
On request vValter p ut his hand over the coordinate board; it
was a right hand and covered squares approximately nine by four
inches. This he showed us three times; then he exclaimed: "Dear,
dear; there's paint all over my hand." And sure enough, when he
picked up his hand from the board, the fingers and hand were more
or less outlined with a smear of the luminous paint. We then had
so A regular part of the telekinetic seances; see p. 50.
3 7 Described on p. 89 ; 11ot to be confused with the plaque of p. 32.-J. M. B.
THE TELEPLASMIC HAND 45
the very interesting experience of seeing \¥alter's hand more or
less luminous, enabling us to follow its movements. It went quickly
toward the floor between the Psychic and Crandon; then it reached
way under the table and touched Adler's left knee and Brown's two
knees, the longest reach being well over five feet from the Psychic's
right shoulder. He then touched every sitter on chin or forehead,
touched several hands, and reached up and pulled the cow-bell RS;
all these movements could be followed. H e then put his right hand
again on the coordinate board ; and on reql:lest less than a minute
later, his left hand. The hand seen all through ~ he evening was
apparently complete in all details, with well-rounded fingers and
plenty of intelligent motions.
The coordinate board continued in use, although it did not figure
in all the sittings of the ensuing weeks ; since Walter, in response to
the Harvard " exposure," developed a policy of more red light and less
darkness. It appeared in the seance of July 6th, however :
\¥alter said he was using up his force too much with red light
phenomena; he would show us his hand up to the elbow in the dark.
This he did first on top of the Dingwall bell-box ; then on the
coordinate board, held vertically as well as horizontally. He
touched both the Hodges, who reported the effect as cold and
clammy.
Again on the lOth, VValter "also rang the Dingwall bell-box, show-
ing his terminal" ; and " all the phenomena were done under strict
double control, plus the luminous wrist-bands, anklets and head-band."
The sittings of July 16th- 18th, under my jurisdiction, were devoted
in considerable part to a display of the teleplasmic hand; they are
l'ecorded separat ely and in full in Chapter XIV. For the sake of com-
parison and of a general check-up and estimate on Crandon's report-
ing, it may be of interest to quote the following from a memorandum
by him, covering the sittings of the 16th and 17th:
The hand was perfectly developed,, both a right and a left, and
shown in full size and in motion over all the luminous objects. Its
measurements were eight by seven inches. E ach finger moved sep-
arately, both on the t able and over the coordinate board held by
Bird six inches above the table. At all critical moments of this
as See record for June 20th, p. 164.
46 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
manifestation, Bird had hold of the Psychic's right and Crandon's
two hands, and Richardson had the Psychic's left. The luminous
bands on the Psychic's five extremities were visible at all times.
The history of the teleplasmic hand during the period covered by
the present chapter will be incomplete until the reader has examined
the records of my mid-July seances mentioned just above; as well as of
the Harvard sittings of Chapter IX, in which the hand played a large
role. From the date marking the close of the present narrative, the
hand ceases to be offered as an end in itself, though often seen inci-
dentally to other manifestations. The re~der who is interested in
tracing its history should digest first the remarks of pp. 47-8; after
which he may find brief mention of the hand on pp. 50 (record for
March 14th), 53 (second paragraph), 60 (record for April 19th),
75 (bottom), and 125 (record for June 25th). Such reader may also
feel that the hair-rumplings and shoe-removals of Chapter VI involve
a tactile experiencing of Walter's terminal by the sitters on a scale
justifying their inclusion .in the teleplasmic sequence. Chapters IX
and XIII, as just indicated, will then carry this sequence through
June, 1925, and bring it up to the point where, in Chapters XIV, XV,
XVI and XXIV, we have a deliberate and well-staged return, by
Walter, to the formal presentation of the teleplasrriic side as an end
in itself. Further references permitting the reader to pursue this
theme without interruption occur at the end of Chapter XXIV.
I
,/
CHAPTER VI
The Telekinetic Aspect: to July 1st, 1925
By the Editor, and from the Seance Records
The immediately preceding chapters have been devoted entirely to
the teleplasmic aspect of the mediumship, from Dingwall's introduction
of this down to an indeterminate date in June-July, 1925. It has
however been stated that the telekinetic side was not abandoned; that
this continued to be displayed, usually in seances free from teleplasmics
but sometimes in parallel with the more abstruse phenomena of newer
type.
Dingwall's contact with the mediumship, however, left on the tele-
kinetic practice almost as indelible marks as in the matter of trance
and teleplasmics. His whole attitude, from his very first seance, was
that of intense repugnance for any phenomena which Margery had
ever produced before, intense desire for new and different manifesta-
tions. I have hazarded the guess that this was with the intent, if the
case should turn out to be one of fraud, of taking the psychic and her
confederates (if any) sharply out of practiced territoTy. It took
the form, after the suggestion of the trance and the teleplasmics, of a
complete elimination during Dingwall's stay of the Scientific American
bell-box and the substitution therefor of a mechanical bell-box designed
by Dingwall ;1
the introduction of paper "doughnuts" (rings made out
of a single sheet of paper, by cutting first a large circle and then cut-
ting the center out of this) and small wicker baskets as objects of
telekinesis ; and the very free use of zinc sulfide luminous paint in
marking these objects for use in the dark.
This brought about, as I have emphasized in Chapter V, a wholly
new situation in which telekinesis was often accompanied, almost of
necessity, by a silhouetting against a luminous ground of the "termi-
nal" employed by Walter. It also brought about a new era in the
telekinetic history of the mediumship. For we now have telekinesis
of several entirely new objects; and telekinesis on an entirely new
scale of objects that are visible in the dark. At the same time, tele-
kinesis is telekinesis; there is a far greater facility of observation
1 See page 118.
47
48 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
under the new technique, but the process is fundamentally the same.
I need not, therefore, in the present volume, detail completely all the
telekinetic action at all seances; much of this can be adequately cov-
ered if r ead into the record by t itle. Also, with the luminous silhouet-
ting, the presence of a materialized end-organ is a more obvious and
fundamental part of the telekinetic process than it was before. Obser-
vations made, visually or tactually, that serve in any sense to char-
acterize this organ must still be regarded as part of the teleplasmic
aspect of the ease; but mere visual or tactual observation of its pres-
ence may now be set down as details of the t elekinetic episodes. \iVc
shall have no chapter on psychic contacts as 'ive did in 1
1
1
!. :Af.
Among Dingwall's ideas which did not remain permanently with the
medi umship was one of placing the seance table, with any obj ects
thereon, in a gauze cage to isolate them from any possibility of normal
action. This cage was used once after Dingwall's departure, on
February 16th, 1925; the record indicates what happened to it and
'~hy it was dropped:
In the Psychic's mouth was a five-cent mouth-balloon which had
been suggested by Richardson as a test for independent voice.2
\Valter . said he wanted the cage cut in halves, and that he
would then work through it easily. Then he said suddenly : "VVhy,
what is this? " and the penny-whistle balloon sounded above the
Psychic's head to the great surprise of all sitters. Then Walter
said: "Now I will show you a joke. Everyone move a little away
from the cage so I can run ar ound." After about five minutes he
said: "\iVell, I must go now. Don't forget to look for your
whistle." The sitting closed. Search fo r the whistle revealed it
within the cage in front of the Psychic. Examination of the cage
showed that sever al thumb-t acks had been pulled out; and there
were two places where the whistle could have been shoved through.
Adler and Crandon state that they did not drop the Psychic's
hands at any t ime. As \iValter said, it was only a joke at best, to
show that Dingwall's cage was not fraud-proof.
On the 21st, 22nd, and 23rd (February), Walter gave considerable
time to the display of his telekinetic powers. I give a paragraph to
t he details from each of these sittings, in order:
He beat time with the megaphone on the table. H e picked up
the luminous doughnuts, put one on the end of the megaphone, put
2 See page 25.
THE TELEKINETIC ASPECT: TO JULY 1, 1925 49
the big megaphone over the little one, put the whole on the table.
He held the megaphone to the mouths of the various sitters, put it
-on heads and hands, played with it generally, and blew the balloon
whistle so hard that the rubber came off.
He wafted in air the larger luminous megaphone, and the
smaller one at different times, with undulating horizontal move-
ment over a large area within the circle, holding it in front of J. H.
Brown, setting it upright on the table~ etc. H e and E. W . Brown
played ball with the smaller megaphone, Brown sitting at the far
·center of the circle. 'iValter hit the megaphone from the table
with such force that it landed in Brown's lap. Brown had hardly
placed it on the table again when Walter hit it again ; and they
thus played shuttlecock with it for a time. Walter hit the mega-
phone also away from Brown, so that it landed on the floor between
Mrs. Brown and Crandon. H e then moved the luminous doughnuts
about on the table and in air, held them in front of J. H. Brown,
tossed them over the latter's shoulder, etc.
H e picked up the big luminous doughnut with difficulty, doing
this much more easily after Crandon bent two or three angles in it.
This doughnut was wafted all over the surface of the table, thrown
on the floor, picked off the floor and lifted vertically to 18 inches
.above the table. He then manipulated both large and small lumi-
nous megaphones from the floor to the table, and made them sail
.above and over the table at a height of two feet, with fish-like
motions. Both the Bradlees received touches on ankles and legs.
During all important manipulations Mrs. Bradlee held the two
hands of Crandon and Margery's right hand, while Bradlee held
Margery's left hand.
February 26th saw a mild epidemic of touches, without further
telekinetic accompaniment. Gerke got it on a leg, Adler on his right
hand, Crandon on his head. Adler reported that his contact was like
that of a powder puff; Crandon described his in terms of a duster or
light mop. And all sitters of March 2nd received a firm downward
pressure from Walter's terminal.
March 8th found 'iValter in inventive mood, looking for something
different to do with the apparatus of telekinesis. Doughnut, basket,
large and small megaphone:
were waved all about over the heads of the sitters. The big mega-
phone was thrust down upon the head of each sitter in succession
50 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
save Margery. Megaphones were snatched out of the grasp of
various sitters and hurled across the room in all directions. All
sitters except Crandon were invited, one at a time, to put their
heads on the table; whereupon the hair and shoulders were stroked
by Walter's terminal. The luminous doughnut was lifted four
feet above the table-top, then dropped to the floor and lifted from
the floor to a point three feet above the table-top. During the
whole seance, whenever physical phenomena were going on, Donnell
held both Crandon's hands and Margery's right hand; and J. H.
Brown held her left hand throughout.
This business of having a sitter put his head on the table (later,
often with his nose in the center of the luminous doughnut), to get his
hair psychically rumpled, became a regular order of routine with
Walter. Comment may also be made upon hi~ often-demonstrated
ability to pick up the doughnuts when they lie flat on floor or table.
One reason for their introduction was to test this ability. They are
not grasped as readily as other and more upstanding obj ect s; grasping
often is effected only after sliding the doughnut about the floor or to
the edge of the table; but the fl atness and thinness are not found to
be at all an insuperable obstacle.
For March lOth t elekinesis of doughnut and megaphones is men-
tioned merely by title in the record, without particulars. Immediately
ensuing dat es gave rise to the following, the record in each instance
being quoted verbatim:
Mar. 13th: Walter came through without speaking, but mani-
fested by touch or pull on Hillyer's trouser-leg, then Marshall's,
then Damon's right thigh. . The large luminous megaphone
was put on the table ; then with Damon holding Margery's left
hand and Hillyer holding her right and both of Crandon's, it was
pushed across the t able into Margery's lap, lifted from the table
and two to three feet above the table, and while aloft moved con-
stantly with fish-like motion. Under the same control it was lifted
from the t able up over D amon's head and thrown outside the west
wing of the cabinet.
Mar. 14th: The penny-balloon whistle, marked with luminous
paint, was on the table initially; it was moved across the table,
lifted in air, and dropped. The large luminous doughnut was lifted
from the table and dropped on the floor; then lifted thence to the
table, a black mitten-shaped terminal being seen grasping it. The
large luminous megaphone was rolled away from Margery on the
THE TELEKINETIC ASPECT: TO JULY 1, 1925 51
t able, apparently when vValter tried to grasp it; he asked that it
be rolled back. It then went two or three feet in the air with fish-
like movements; first one end, then the other, was presented to
Goodall, Richardson, Mrs. Richardson and Crandon. Mrs. Rich-
ardson held the megaphone up horizontally in both hands and
Walter lifted it out of her hands and up into the air. He repeated .
this for Richardson. He whistled a jig tune and the small end of
the megaphone danced on the t able to this tune. Then with vig-
orous movement the megaphone was tossed up on to the top of the
cabinet. The megaphone was placed over the whistle on the table;
then a sound was heard, apparently from within the megaphone, as
of blowing up the whistle ; then the loud note of the whistle
sounded, showing that the balloon must have been much distended
and released. The whistle was again blown up while under the
megaphone and l'eleased still under the megaphone. Throughout
the sitting, whenever any physical phenomena occurred, Mrs. Rich-
ardson controlled both Crandon's hands and Margery's right, and
had Crandon's mouth on her hand. Goodall maintained control of
Margery's left hand throughout.
March 15th: Walter came through with touches on Damon's
leg and on Hoagland. He asked for the big luminous doughnut,
pushed it audibly to Margery's edge of the table, and it dropped to
the floor. After a brief time he lifted it to the table~top and
higher, then made wild dancing motions with it in air above the
table for half a minute. The megaphone was called for, and as
last night, it rolled away from Margery, whereupon vValter asked
somebody to brace it so that he might pick it up. This done, it
sailed all over the area above the table, thirty inches ·in air and
with motion like a big fish or Zeppelin. The small luminous basket
was then called for and moved all about the table, lifted four inches
and sailed about through the air, and finally thrown with great
force over toward the northeast corner of the room, landing on the
sofa between Mrs. Brown and Mrs. Stinson. Throughout, Hoag-
land kept constant control of Margery's left hand; Damon of her
right hand and Crandon's two hands; and Crandon's mouth was
on Damon's hand. During and at the end of every phenomenon,
Hoagland and Damon repeated the precision3
of their control.
March 16th: Gray was touched on hair, hand and sleeve. The
big luminous megaphone was lifted out of Gray's hands, sailed
through the air a distance of about 24 inches from the table, with
3 Sic. This presumably indicates a spoken validation of control by Hoagland
and Damon at these critical moment s.-J. M. B.
52 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the usual fish-like motions, and finally thrown up on the roof of the
cabinet. Half a minute later it was thrown down from the roof.
March 19th : Walter came through touching Richardson.
Later, Arkin, Richardson and Miss Richardson were successively
told each to put his nose in the doughnut4
on the table, whereupon
Walter stroked the hair and patted the shoulder of each. H e
lifted the doughnuts one at a time from the t able, up a foot or less,
dropped them on the floor; then with great persistency after sev-
eral failures picked each up and put it on the t able. He lifted the
small luminous basket two feet in air, waved it all about, and
finally threw it with great force toward Mrs. Stinson in the far
corner of the room, landing it on the couch beside her. The big
luminous megaphone was placed on the table at W alter's request.
He lifted it and made it travel all around the t able like a Zeppelin.
He allowed the Richardsons and Adler successively to take hold of
it, whereupon he snatched it away. Richardson estimated that he
held it with at least fifteen pounds resistance. The megaphone was
thrown on the floor, put back by Adler, lifted and hurled with great
violence into the space between Margery and Crandon. It hit
neither, landing in the southeast corner of the cabinet. The small
luminous megaphone was .used similarly but with greater speed;
used to knock on the table; and finally hurled toward Mrs. Stinson,
landing on the sofa beside her. All phenomena were carried on
with Richardson controlling Margery's left hand and Mrs. Rich-
ardson controlling her right hand and Crandon's two hands and
face. Margery wore visible anklets and headband.
March 21st: There was brilliant work with doughnuts and
megaphones. "\iVith the big megaphone particularly, Walter had
·several sitters try to catch it ; others he allowed to hold it, then
took it away from them. De "\iVycko:ff, Mrs. Richardson and Mrs.
Brians were each told, one after another, to put his nose in the
doughnut on the table, after which "\iValter stroked their hair and
patted their shoulders. During all physical phenomena D e "\iVyck-
off held Margery's left hand, while Mrs. R ichardson or Mrs. De
"\iVyckoff5
held both Crandon's hands and Margery's right hand,
and controlled Crandon's head. :Margery wore luminous anklets
and headband, which constantly accounted for these extremities.0
4 It may be understood that the doughnut is always luminous.
G The circle was changed duril1g the ,seance.
G I.e., which were at 1111 critical periods reported visible to some or all sittc•·s,
in their proper places with relation to t he room.-J. M. B.
THE TELEKINETIC ASPECT: TO JULY 1, 1925 53
March 22nd :7
w·alter came through promptly in good spirits;
raps and greetings were heard on the east wing of the cabinet near
Bird. The illuminated penny-whistle was lifted from the table and
thrown to the floor. The doughnut was asked for by vValter,
obtained by Bird, and thrown by him on the table. It was lifted
from the table; travelled .all over the region above the table at a
height of some eight inches; and was slipped over the Psychic's
edge of the table, up and Clown like a rising and setting moon. The
basket was then asked for and put on the table by Bird.8
It was
lifted up and over the table and thrown to the floor. The small
megaphone was asked for and when obtained was lifted all around
with the fish-like effect. Mrs. De Wyckoff was asked to hold it,
and it was taken away from her with much force. The big mega-
phone was then called for, and when .obtained was lifted high and
exhibited for three or four minutes with beautiful fish-like motions.
Walter then said: "You may put anything in the room on the
table, and I will lift it up." Whereupon J. H . Brown passed along
a half-dollar to be put on the table. It was heard to make ma1iy
raps; then it fell to the floor. \iValter said after a few minutes:
"Oh, I can't be bothered with that." \iVe thought he was excusing
his inability to lift it. L at er it was apparently felt scratching
along the table-leg, the vibrations felt and the sounds heard sug-
gesting this interpretation.
· Bird was now instructed to sit within the circle, facing the
Psychic.n He was told to hold the basket in two hands, at a time
when he was holding it on one palm, showing that VValter knew in
the dark that only one hand was being used.10
Bird felt and saw
the "terminal" come out and agitate the basket. This occurred
several times; then all at once Bird heard somethinp· fall in the
basket. \iValter said that the half-dollar was in the b~sket; Biro
examined the basket and confirmed this. The basket was then
taken from Bird's hands, tipped over, the half-dollar spilled on the
table, and the basket finally thrown on the floor. It was brought
back, and there ensued a complicated series of motions of the
basket, during which \iValter several times put it accurately on
Bird's extended hands. Several times Walter instructed Bird to
7 This record is lnxgely by me, :IJlcl in so far as it is not by me :m el does not
deal with elements clearly ·beyond my ·knowledge, it has my complete endorsemen t,
barring the one exception which I take on p. 54.- J'. M. B.
8 The np;paratus wn s ·iJJitially on the fioor behind the wing of the cabinet, in
easy reach from my i11it:ial position.- J'. M. B.
9 Hard against the table, closer to her than usual for sitters facing her.- J'. M. B.
10 The single lumin ous band was well up tow:nd the top of the b" sl,ct, nncl
would hardly afford, hy silhouette or other means, any in(Liration of how I wa s
holding the ba.skct.- .T. M. B.
54 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
take the half-dollar out of the basket or put it in, and Bird handled
the coin freely on his own initiative. In every case when Walter
spoke, there seemed no normal means whereby it could be known to
anyone save Bird where the coin was; but in each case the instruc-
tions were consistent with the situation as it exist ed. Also several
times Bird was instructed to take the basket in one hand or in two
hands, and each time these instructions were pertinent. Several
times Walter withdrew the coin or placed it in the basket. Once
or more he lifted the doughnut hom tht'1 floor and placed it in the
basket , which was then in Bird's hands. Once or more \¥alter's
terminal could be clearly seen outlined against the doughnut. Once
when Bird held the basket on his two palms he had the sensation
of a touch on his finger-ends, which extended toward the Psychic
beyond the edge of the basket. With Bird holding the basht co.n-
taining the doughnut and the coin, the big luminous doughnut was
brought down over the whole assembly; the big end of the mega-
phone was then tipped in such a way that the basket was spilled out
of Bird's hands into the megaphone. The entire outfit then went
into the air as one unit. At one stage, a big psychic structure
like a foot or a forearm was felt touching De \iVyckoff's knee and
Crandon's left leg.
Throughout the sitting control was either by De Wyckoff at
Margery's left and Bird in the position between the Psychic and
Crandon ;11
or else by De Wyckoff of Margery's two hands and
by Mrs. De Wyckoff of Crandon's two. [After removal of Bird
to seat at table, facing the Psychic,] in all these experiments the
control was constantly declared to be perfect by the De Wyckoffs.
The period of the above seance during which I sat at the table, fac-
ing Margery and engaged in play of various sorts with \¥alter, lasted
more than half an hour; it constituted one of the most striking of all
my Lime Street experiences, and I think by all means the most nearly
unique. The record of this part of the seance is entirely mine, save
for the statement that "in etJery case" Walter seemed without normal
means of gaining the knowledge that he displayed. There were times
when such means probably or certainly existed; once, for instance, I
had dropped the coin audibly on the table. There were, however, occa-
sions when I had it in my hand or my pocket, or in the basket in my
hands, or when I had pretended to lay it in the basket, on which I was
11 For history a nd description of this technique of control, see M. M ., p. 154;
as well as numerous subsequent points in the book describing the occasions on
which control w::ts exercisec1 in this manner.
THE TELEKINETIC ASPECT: TO J ULY 1, 1925 55
very confident that normal means of sensing the situation were lacking
to anyone other than myself. Likewise ther e were moments when I
had the basket in one 011 in two hands ; and when w alter was able to
say which, without touching it himself.
The physical action of this p art of the seance had its focus
directly in front of me-so much I could det ermine from the p ulling
and tugging on the basket and from the few occasions when the terminal
was visible to me. The hand s of Ma rgery and her hL
1sba nd wer e com-
plet ely accounted for; the circle r emained permanently incomplet e
while the D e \iVyckoffs controlled without interruption as described in
the r ecord. N o other sitter could conceivably have got into the theat er
from which the phenomena wer e offer ed. There remains only the fact
that the medium's feet were subj ect to no organized, continuous control.
She wore stockings, with soft slipp ers and without luminous control.
At various critical moments of the seance I was able t o find one or occa-
sionally both of her ankles, shins or knees by gr oping with my own
feet ; and occasionally her r estless feet would contact with my feet or
shins, being then r ecog nizable because they wer e so softly shod. I was
also quite confident at times that there had been a gr asping of some
seance object or a cont rol of the phenomena, going beyond wh at could
have been achieved with a stockinged foot. T o a critic who insist s that
nothing is impossible for a member that is not under continuous and
rigorous control, this seance would prove nothing. To one who is
pr epared to estimate what is and what is not feasible under any given
set of conditions, the fact that the P sychic wore stockings, coupled with
the fact that the doughnut was handled as freely and as successfull y
as any of the other app ar atus, ought to go a long way in demonstration
of validity. And if the obj ection be urged that the performance was
never r epeat ed I can only answer that if it were done by fraud it ought
to be susceptible of r ep etition with no difficulty ; while the cognitive
aspect s of 'iValter's p erformance on this date aTe r ather analogous to
what lat er became a r egular feature of the seances. lVI y own st at e of
mind during the p erformance was that it was ahout as intrinsically
convincing as anything that had occurred in my pi·esence since the
cabinet -smashing episode of June 21Lth, 1924.
March 25th: 'i\T
alter then ~id some wonderful levitation with
the doughnut, sailing it all about the ta:hle in gr aceful curves. H e
then took the luminous basket, lifted it thirty inches above the
t able, made it sail about, and finally landed it on the floor. Next
56 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
he used t he big megaphone, which sailed about through the air over
the table, then was laid with one end in Hale's lap and the other end
to his mouth. Then both the Hales and Miss Richardson were
asked to hold one end while Walter si.1atched it away from them.
Similar phenomena were given with the small luminous megaphone,
which was at last thrown across the room toward Mrs. Stinson.
The big one was finally thrown with great force between the Psychic
and Crandon into the cabinet. ·walter then asked that all lumi-
nous objects be removed. Asked what to do with the basket, he
said to leave it on the table and he would attend to it. This he did
by throwing it over toward M1:s. Stinson. All the physical phe-
nomena were done under full control. Hale had both Margery's
han9-s, Mrs. Richardson had Crandon's; and Margery wore
luminous headbands and anklets.
March 27th: There was an exhibition of his very best levitation .
all over the table-top from the floor to the table, three feet above
the table, with throwing of objects about, all under perfect con-
ditions of control. He had each sitter in turn put his face forward
on the doughnut as it lay on the table, and he then stroked the
back and hair and patted the shoulders of each. Then he went on
to entirely new phenomena. The lacings of Arkin's left shoe and
Crandon's right were undone, the two shoes taken off; then Mrs.
Litzelmann's right shoe was removed. The remo'val process was
preceded by a lot of pulling on the lace; then a finger-like process
would be inserted in the top of the shoe to loosen the lacings ; then
a firm grasp would push down along the heel, gripping this and
pulling the shoe off. Each shoe was then put separately first on
the table and later on the floor. Throughout the sitting, from
beginning to end, Arkin had Margery's two hands, Mrs. Litzelmann
had Crandon's two hands, and Margery's luminous headbands and
anklets were visible.
It is a happy circumstance that on this, the first occasion when it
was offered, the shoe-untying stunt was canied through to its logical
climax in the removal of the shoe, and was prosecuted under such com-
plete control. The extremely small circle gives unusually good assur-
ance against confederacy from within; the specter of confederacy from
without I suppose we shall always have with us as an escape from
isolated phenomena of isolated seances which defy all other conven-
tional explanations. That the present episode does defy these seems
fairly clear; I doubt that Margery's ability to do all this with a foot
will be urged. Here it is of interest to note that in the cases of her
THE TELEKINETIC ASPECT : TO JULY 1, 1925 57
immediate neighbors, Arkin and Crandon, it was their shoes on the sides
away from her that were t ampered with. Perhaps the severe skeptic
will take this, plus the ext ension of the action to Mrs. Litzelmann, as
indication of a confederacy from without operating from the far side
of the circle. It may not then be amiss to remind the reader that Mrs.
Stinson is very badly crippled with . a general arthritis; numerous
physicians have attended her and the bonct fides· of her condition cannot
be questioned. She is so bad that once she is seated, it is a matter of
severe labor and considerable noise for her to leave her chair.
March 28th : Walter went to work on the baskets, doughnuts
and megaphones, carrying out one of the most brilliant programs
we have ever seen. Amongst other things there was a tug-of-war
with Laura Crandon on the megaphone. He complained that he
had so few things to work with that he was getting sick of it. We
promised him some new apparatus. He put his attention on Rich-
ardson's right shoe; he untied the laces and removed them about
three-quarters from their holes. Failing then to get the shoe off
comp'letely, he picked Richardson's foot and leg up, and st amped
several times on the floor with this member, with great noise.
We may, I think, now adopt the suggestion of the above record,
that the performance of t elekinesis with basket, doughnut and mega-
phone is about standardized. We need therefore give no further space
to descriptions of these acts that involve no new element; we may
chronicle them by title. Such chronicling will cover the physical side
of the sittings of March 29th and 30th. On the latter date, Walter
repeated his expression of boredom with his present "playthings " and
asked that some new ones be got. On the 31st, after the routine p~r­
formance with the luminous objects, he did something considerably
more impressive : telekinesis of an object produced at random from
a sitter's pocket. The r ecord is adequate : ·
There was ver y brilliant work with the megaphone, basket and
doughnut; and then with Golding's pocket. knife. "You know,"
said vValter, "there's no string on that." He rapped a r equested
number of times on the cabinet with a twenty-dollar gold piece, and
finally put this in the basket on Golding's knee. Then he did some-
thing new with the megaphone: he lifted this, on the far side of
the table from the Psychic, from the floor to the level of the table;
he then asked Adler to hold it with two hands; after which, vValter's
terminal apparently came out above the table, took the megaphone
from Adler, and completed the circle of travel with it.
58 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
April lst saw two items of novelty. One of these revolved about a
handkerchief with a crude face drawn on it in luminous paint . This
had been made during Dingwall's stay, and christened the "Houdini
handkerchief "; the general character of V\Talter's humor as directed
thereat can be sufficiently imagined. On this evening he asked for it,
but said it was too brightly lighted. Crandon substituted one of his
nwn. 'iVe may now turn to the record, going back to page 27 for our
atmosphere and adding to the data there given the further statement
that the penny whistle was present:
After a few minutes [of inaction], Walter said: "Turn on the
red light and look in the back of the cabinet." The red light was
given, and we beheld in the right back corner of the cabinet the
penny whistle, hanging unsupported in the air, fully eight inches
away from both back and east wings of cabinet. 'iValter
asked for five seconds of red light; we turned this on and saw the
handkerchief in the same place where the whistle had been, sus-
pended without visible support and slowly rotating in the air.
The routine tclekine.·is was given on April 3rd and 4th; following
which, on the latter date, "Walter tried some red-light telekinesis,
using the big megaphone, standing on its big end. He was able to
move it a couple of inches." Following a return to the routine for the
5th, he promised some more red-light t elekinesis for Martin on the
11th ; and on the 8th, after a routine display, he did for the first time
:-::nmcthing which has since then become well standardized:
He then began working on the basket in the dark. He worked
ten minutes and then asked us not to pay any attention to him but
to tell stories. He interjected many "damns," and finally said:
" I think I have it; turn on the red light three seconds." This was
done; the basket moved an inch, then turned over on its side. It
was then on the northwest corner of the table, farthest from the
Psychic, and all hands were visible. This experiment he repeated
many times, with increasing success, asking us to leave the light on
until the basket moved. As a final exhibit, he held the basket with
long axis horizontal, over the far edge of the t able, with nothing
resting on the t able but the handleY He then lifted the basket up
on the t able, from that position into its normal upright phase. This
12 A position in which it is wholly evident thn.t it could not be mnintninecl
normally without supp01-t of some sort.- -J. M. B .
THE TELEKI NETIC ASPECT: TO J ULY 1, 1925 59
he repeated three times, all in good red light ;13
and each time,
during the same red-light period, Walter laughed.
April lOth saw the routine of telekinesis of illuminated objects in
the dark; but first:
The next efforts were in the way of red-light levitation. VValter
moved and tipped over the little basket, at the two corners of the
table remotest from the PsychicY H e then asked Millea for his
wrist watch and strap. This was put on the table, and in good red
light \iValter moved the unit two separate times between two and
three inches along the t able ; ever y hand and foot being visible at
the time.15
• • . He pulled off Mrs. Ekland's hair net and pulled
the hairpins out, letting her hair down. He took a quarter
(Crandon's) off the t able and handed it to Mrs. E kl and "to pay
for the net," putting it squarely in her hand. He then took
Eldand's pen from the table, put it on the floor, lifted it up and
put it into Mrs. Ekland's up-turned palm, her hand resting on the
doughnut. All these phenomena were produced with Millea in pos-
session of the Psychic's two hands, and Mrs. Millea in possession
of Crandon's hands and in control of his head.
And all of them, after the indicated omission of more routine items,
were of course in darkness.
The 11th saw a continuation of the red-light telekinesis of an
object contributed by a sitter: Martin's watch. The record tells us:
\iVe now heard [in darknessJ sounds as of the watch being
pushed about for a few minutes, when \iValter said: "Put on the
red light until the watch moves." In dim red light the watch was
seen plainly to slide along the table a few inches-it looked like a
beetle crawling. The experiment was then repeated with other
objects, the movement of a shoe five or six inches being the most
spectacular. 'l'his shoe had been removed by :Mrs. Fessenden from
her own foot in the dark, and placed by her on the table; its move-
ment in red light was plainly seen by all.
The usual routine of the dark-room telekinesis of illuminated obj ects
was given on this· dat e ; as on the 12th, 18th, 21st, 24th, 26th, 29th,
13 But not a single pei·iod of red li ght for all three episodes; rather, there was
m1 interval of darkness after each.- J . M. B.
14 'l'he same rperformance n.s that of the 8th.
1S But an interval of darkness having preceded each cpisodc.- J . M. B.
60 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
30th, May 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 8th, 13th, 18th, 29th, 30th, 31st, June
2nd, 6th, 8th, 11th, 14th, 25th and 27th. It is to be understood that
this routine includes not merely manipulation of doughnut, basket and
megaphone, tug of war, throwing away of the megaphone and basket,
etc. ; but also the putting of coins off and on the table, in and out of
the basket, etc. ; the rumpling of the hair of sitters as they place their
noses in the doughnut on the table, etc. As regards departures from
the routine, or more or less critical observations in connection with the
routine, the following excerpts from the records may be given:
April 12th: [Following the identification of objects contrib-
uted by the sitters and while these wer e still on the table.16
] Walter
then separately moved each of these articles in two directions, at an
angle to each other, over distances of from two to six inches~ The
clinical thermometer he not only moved parallel to its long axis, but
also rotated it. He then tipped over the little basket and moved it
first from one corner and then to the other of the two corners of
the table farthest from the Psychic. All this was done in good red
light.17
April 18th: The basket was moved and tipped over in red light,
and then 'IValton's watch was placed on the table, moved five inches
in one direction and six inches at right angles thereto, in red light.
. Walton's pencil was lifted from the basket in the dark, and
an object put in the basket by Walton was removed by.Walter and
identified as nail scissors.
April 19th: Levitation of the luminous basket, the luminous
doughnut and the large megaphone were all done with great bril-
liancy in red light; and Walter's terminal was shown over the
illuminated plaque. All this was under perfect conditions of double
control, except when Crandon went to the victrola, at which time
phenomena still went on. In red light a match box belonging to.
Button was moved five inches.
Of the sitters at the above seance, Hyslop Was unimpressed with the
performance; he objected seriously to Crandon's definition of " phe-
nomena in red light." He is very clear that nothing happened which
10 See page 287.
17 With intervening darkness between every two episodes, o1· every two groups
of episodes. Crandon's use of t!Je term or the concept ''red-light phenomena ''
always implies this restriction, which in his viewpoint is fundamental. He .regards
it as entirely possible for the teleplasm to support e:A,
lJOsure to these brief intervals
of light, where continons exposure would destroy it..-J. M. B.
THE TELEKINETIC ASPECT: TO JULY 1, 1925 61
merits such description; he insists that red light was merely given for
observation of the results of a motion occurring entirely in darkness,
or that there were always intervals of darkness between phenomena
which might mean something in t erms of fraudulent preparation. I
do not believe that he would presume to suggest how these intervals
might have been used in support of the effects presented; his objection
to them is on more general grounds than that. Perhaps, as I once
said of Comstock, he is superstitious about the resources of the con-
jurer's t echnique. But whatever their basis, his exceptions must be
recorded here, as must be those of every sitter of whose exceptions
I am aware.
April 21st: D ennett put on the table, in the dark, a large silver
cigarette case. This was handled and moved about by Walter in
the dark. It was opened, and a cigarette pulled out of it and put
on the table. This episode was not well controlled ; the Crandon-
Psychic link was not covered at the moment. Then in good red
light Walter moved the case, in view of all, five or six inches along
the table. Next, in good red light,.we discovered18
a flower brought
by Mrs. Dennett, balanced, standing nearly vertical on the edge·of
the table most distant from the Psychic. Walter in the red light
then proceeded to bend it over until it rested on the table. Late
in the sitting a big gourd rattle with a handle was put on the table;
and Walter not only moved it, but the gourd-handle carried one
of the doughnuts along with it through a travel of five inches, in
good red light.
April 24th: Walter asked Andrews for his wrist watch and
strap. This was put on the table, and then Walter moved it four
inches in good red light.
April 29th: All these phenomena were under strict double con-
trol of Crandon and the Psychic. When Crandon was called to the
t elephone, in his absence Murray maintained full control of the
P sychic; and beautiful levitation of the doughnut continued, with
waving in all directions. On Crandon's return, Walter picked the
luminous doughnut off of a nail in the middle of the east wing of the
cabinet [on which it had been placed by the sittersJ. Throughout
the sitting the P sychic's head and ankles carried luminous bands.
This last episode had been given also on the preceding evening. It
IS of considerable interest in that· the nail in question is distinctly
18 This merm.s thnt the red light came on to reveal it so standing, and tha;t it
continued the bnl:mcing during the duration of the light.- J. M. B.
62 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
behind the Psychic as she occupies her seance chair. vVhen we grant
the double control, we are reduced, for a " normal " explanation of the
manifestations, to a reliance upon the Psychic's feet, which must be
pictured as out of control and engineering the levitations, etc. The
present incident contradicts this theory about as sharply as well
could be.
May 2nd : Then the basket was put on the table and VValter
in the dark moved it over to R ichardson's side; then called for the
red light. The basket was then seen to be about two inches over the
edge of the table, suspended without normal support. It righted
itself on to the table and slid along about one inch toward the
center, all in continuous red light.
May 3rd: All these phenomena continued while Crandon was
out at the telephone.
June 2nd: H e [\iValter] extracted Mrs. Griscom's comb from
her hair and put it in Griscom's hand. He unfastened completely
the lacings of Griscom's right shoe and made a good attempt to take
the shoe off. He then took off Mrs. Litzelmann's right shoe with
success. Griscom could feel the finger between his shoe and stock-
ing, trying to loosen the lacings.
June 6th: Some streamers of ribbon had been hung over the
cabinet pole, with luminous paint at their ends. This was with the
hope that \iValter would blow them out. H e did so, at request;
or rather he must have moved them with his t erminal. For shortly
afterward he touched Richardson's wrist and deposited small specks
of luminous paint thereon. Also it was observed that no breeze
was felt when the ribbons moved; and when, later, breezes did come,
the ribbons were quiet . Touches were also felt by Crandon and
Mrs. Richardson.
June 25th: As a finish to the sitting \¥alter rang at great
length the bell suspended under the chandelier/9
and then used the
big megaphone in some way to ring this bell.
June 27th: \Vith Hill he had an exciting game of ball, using
the megaphone as bat and the clothespin hitched to the cowbell for
ball. There was a long series of " strikes " and " balls," after
which he rang the suspended cowbell vigorously. All these phe-
nomena were under double control. During the sitting Walter
gave Hill repeat ed touches, and finally made a definite effort to
unbutton Hill's shirt.
10 Sec page 165 for descd,ption and history.
THE TELEKINETIC ASPECT: TO J ULY 1, 1925 63
Rather than get too far ahead of the chronolog ical development of
the case, it seems desirable to suspend the present narrative here. It
is to be pointed out that the exigencies of proper topical treatment
make it necessar y to deal with three very striking seances under a
separate heading in Chapter XIII; and that the H arvard records cited
in Chapter IX also revolve in considerable degree about telekinet!c
phenomena. For the immediate future, most of the seances at which
telekinesis is chronicled will be found in Chapters VIII, IX and X III.
And when we have got these chapters behind us and have thus brought
the entire history of the case up to an approximately even date, we
shall resume the t elekinetic sequence in Chapter XVII. Any general
comment which might be appropriat e at the present point may there-
fore be postponed until there is a larger body of data on which to
base it.
CHAPTER VII
Donations from Walter
By the Edito·r
For a while during the first half of 1925, Walter pursued an amus-
ing theme which I shall have to present wholly in narrative and descrip-
tive form. The general idea was that of bringing presents to the
sitters; these usually took the form of small articles of jewelry. The
Lime Street routine of sitting is very far from what would be neces-
sary to prevent the smuggling of such objects into the room; and a
fair case could be made as regards the possibility of handing them out
under cover of the moments at which control is interrupted. Even if
one believed the conditions adequate to exclude all this, one would
have to grant that the records do not show this to be the case. So
here I simply tell what is stated ·by the sitters to have occurred. If
genuine, these presents obviously are apports; and it appears alto-
gether probable that apports do occur genuinely in some cases.
From February 26th on, Walter did a good deal of talking about
his plans for giving presents to Conant, Gerke, the Richardsons, Good-
all, etc. Some of this conversation is in the records; much of it I
suspect has been omitted, for there is extreme lack of continuity in
the recorded fragments. A promise of what was to come may be seen
in the record of March 14th, which informs us that one of Margery's
garters, lost for three days, was put in her lap by Walter during the
seance. If the mediumship suffers through the constant occunence
of things of this sort, which make a large demand upon one's credulity
and which could not possibly be put on a basis of rigorous demonstra-
tion, I think we must also realize the advantage in having the complete
and frank and friendly record of the frank and friendly intercourse
between Walter and his sitters.
Some of the atmosphere with which Walter managed to surround
his presentations lo the sitters is worthy of reproduction. In a jok-
ing way, he is always representing himself as living in the fire-and-
brimstone atmosphere of Hell, as being a little devil with a forked tail,
etc. Once when he had assured Mrs. Stinson that they would meet on
his side, she acknowledged the satisfaction which this gave her by
some use of the word "Heaven." and Walter at once pointed.out that
64
DONATIONS FROM WALTER 65
he had said nothing about that. It was in this spirit that (February
26th, 1925) he told the sitters that his presents for Conant and Gerke
would comprise something from the molten fires of Hell. Another fre-
quent theme of his jests is that his presents for the sitters are got by
a more or less piratical process of canvassing old graves.
During the latter part of March the conversation about the intended
gifts to the sitters became much more frequent. The first success-
ful performance came on March 27th, Mrs. Litzelmann being the
recipient of Walter's favor. During this sitting, Walter suddenly
said: "Sary, put out your right hand, palm up, on the doughnut on
the table; but don't break the circle doing it." After Mrs. Litzel-
mann had done as directed, Walter went on: "Sary, here's a button
for you; .keep tight hold of it." With the words, there was put in
Mrs. Litzelmann's hand a small cold object feeling quite like a button.
Examination after the seance showed this to be "a piece of turquoise
matrix, flat on one side and spherical on the other, circular in shape,
ready for mounting in a ring." The record chronicles: "Throughout
the sitting, from the beginning to end, Arkin had Margery's two hands;
Mrs. Litzelmann had Crandon's two hands, a:nd Margery's luminous
headband and anklets were visible." It adds, by way of summary
and conclusion, "The conditions of control were so perfect as to leave
little doubt that this was a true apport."
On the very next evening Walter did it again. He told Patty Rich-
ardson to hold out her right hand on the doughnut without breaking
the circle, as Mrs. Litzelmann had done the night before. She re-
ported that she felt his terminal touch her thumb and then her palm,
in process of placing in her palm a small cold object. "Here's a
button for you, Patty; a speautiful spink one. Hold on to it." It
was found to be a piece, about ~ x lj
2 x %, inches, of what was taken
to be a Mexican opal; it was white with a slight pinkish cast, and some-
what translucent. The record fails entirely to cover the question of
control, either for the generality of the seance or for the moment of
delivery of Miss Richardson's present.
The next donation was for Walter's mother. It came on April
1st, in a seance the record of which is explicit regarding the existence
of control for a long series of telekinetic phenomena; but no state-
ment is made to cover the moment of delivery of this present. Con-
trary to precedent, VValter this time announced, before delivery, what
it was: a crystal cameo. Because his mother was not in the circle,
he said he would hand it to Golding, who was. Golding under instruc-
66 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
tions placed his left hand, palm up, on the doughnut (luminous, here
as always) on the table; there was put into it, and bounced out, a
small cold object "like a stone." Later investigation showed this t o
be "an exquisite crystal cameo, % x :Y2 x ~~! inch, with the most
delicate Greek female profile carved on it."
After this, there was quite a lapse before 'i\Taltcr made his next
donation. On April 12th he promised a present for Dr. and Mrs.
Brown if they would be present on the 17th; but they weren't, so noth-
ing came of that. On the 15th, however, Adler was the beneficiar y :
Walter then went on: "Freddy, you're a patient sitter. I'm
going to bring you a ruby. It will be a half inch long. Don't
l~t anybody tell you it is a " sympathetic " ruby. Ha, ha; it's a real
one. I think I will give you something tonight, also. .John, go
get Freddy a ' stun.' Hurry up, there ! Don't be slow." Crandon
then asked if Walter would do some work with the plaque, to which
he replied : "No, not till John brings that stun." In about two
minutes Walter said: "Freddy, put your left hand on that lumi-
nous ring on the table, palm up." Whereupon we all could see~
under perfect control conditions, a black, arm-like process cross
the luminous ring; and Adler felt something drop in his palm~
though it bounced out and fell on the floor and was found later.
Walter said: "Too bad. You will find a green stone with the
matrix in one place crumbled, and no wonder; it has been buried
150 years. Don't let anyone get it away from you."
The record fails to chronicle the finding of the stone at the end
of the seance, or its character; so this much of the story must consist
in etc post facto statement by Adler himself. He t ells me that it corre-
sponded in all ways with the record; and by way of proving this he
shows me the stone itself.
The Browns got their present on the 26th (April) . The record
is adequate:
In the midst of the show Walter said: "You remember, Kitty, I
promised you as one of my early faithful sitters a present; and that
present would have orange blossoms on it.1
W ell, I've sent for it. It
isn't here yet. It will be here pretty soon." About two minutes
later he broke in on whatever he was doing to say :2
"Here's your
1 We have seen that he made a promise; the sitters confirm the matter of the
orange blossoms, which does not appear in any of the records.-J. M. B.
2 It is of course understo<Hl that the1·e was no dictaphon.ie or stenographic tran-
seription of the seances in which the record is Crandon 's, unaided; conversation witll
Walter out of such sittings is set down out of the best recollections of Cramlon,
almost always with aid from the others.-J. M. B.
DONATION S FROM WALTER 67
-present, Kitty. Put your hand, palm up, over the lighted dough-
nut. H ere it is." Then we could hear something hard rapping
all over the table. Then with great precision there was placed
in Kitty's right hand a hard object, which she at once declared
to be a ring. Then ';yalter said : "I had to search seventeen
g r aves for that. Y ou'll find on it some crumbly stuff; and no
wonder. It has been buried 150 years. It has great value ; I doubt
if you ever saw one like it. It is a lapis."
Kitty's apport p roved t o be a solid silve r ring. There was a
worn mark inside it which may have been a worn ma rk "Sterling,"
but which looked to our eyes as though it were not that. The ring
was worn and shiny, as though it had been used for many years.
'i\T
here it r eached the sides of the stone it showed on each side a
conventional orange blossom in silver. The stone itself was a
beautiful lapis ]azu li 1.5 centimeter long and one centimet er wide.
A striking feature is that every sulcus or carved depression in the
ring was filled with a r edd ish brown oily dirt, as though the ring
had never been cleaned. The deliver y was made under double
control of the P sychic by [Dr. J Brown and of Crandon by M rs.
Brown.
';yalter seized the opportunity offered by the p resence of the Litzel-
mann's, on May 4th, to remember another old friend:
' Valter went on to say t hat he wanted to be the sol e donor of
the ring to Sarah [Litzelmann J; so he said: " Carl, I am going to
send now for the money. And Freddy [Adler J, you have been a
patient, faithful sitter· and I am going to send fot· your ruby now.
Don't let anyone t ell you it is 'sympathetic.' Hey, John, go get
t hat money and the stun. John isn't sure that he has time. H e
has duty elsewhere. Yes, you go ahead, J ohn ; and be lively
about it. Y ou have 'plenty of time." ' i\Talter then went on with
some r ep artee ; and in about two minutes he said: "John is back ;
g·ood boy, John; now you can go. Do you hear that , Carl?"
' i\T
hereupon we heard the crackling of p ap er on the east wing of
the cabinet and on the t able. All this was under p erfect double
control. This same crackling p aper was forced into Carl's left
hand, and a minute lat er Freddy's hand, palm up on the luminous
doughnut, r eceived something done up in waxed paper which we
had just heard W alter fumbling about to extract from the luminous
basket. The apport s proved to be, for Carl, a new
twenty-dollar bill ; and for Freddy, a pigeon's blood ruby, big as
one's finger nail. A p erfect stone.
68 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
After a long hiatus, Walter returned on December 22d, 1915, t()
the business of giving presents to the sitters; but under a technique
that is hardly satisfactory to anybody save the donee.
He told Conant to put his left hand, palm up, .over the dough-
nut. Conant did this, retaining the Psychic's left hand; Gerke
had her right hand and both of Crandon's. Something was put
into Conant's hand. A similar experiment and experience was put
through for Gerke. Each was told to put his apport into his
pocket and not to tell the other or anyone else what it was. Walter
added that one of the two would have in his pocket "the spirit
of '76." Conant declared later that he knew what Walter meant
by "the spirit of '76," but neither revealed what he had received.
A secret present was similarly bestowed upon Patty Richardson.
on January 2d, 1926. The record tells us:
He then instructed us all to sit away from the cabinet except
Patty, who was told to put her hand through the hole in the
front door.3
She was told further that what she received was to
be a secret between her and ''\!alter. After a while she felt a small
object being put in her hand; and she later took it home with her
without telling anyone what it was.
Though his inclination to bizarre performances remains unlessened,
the particular stunt of giving presents to the sitters was indulged in
by vValter for the last time on the above date.
3 Of the glass cabinet-see Chapter XXV.
CHAPTER VIII
Seances Outside the Lime Street Premises: 1925
From the Records, with Comment by the Editor
During the very first days of the mediumship, it was customary
to alternate the sittings between the Crandon residence in Lime Street.
and Dr. Brown's house in Beachmont. As the interval between
seances became shorter and the amount of seance paraphernalia
greater, the convenience of having a fixed place of meeting became
more compelling; and the urgency of Dr. Crandon's being always
within easy telephonic access of his various hospitals was another factor
tending in the same direction. As a result, we have a condition to
which the skeptics have always pointed with extreme derision. In
point of fact, it has never been the custom to hold all seances in the
medium's own residence. But the custom has sufficiently approximated
this to lend real point to the criticism; so that a proponent of the
mediumship has felt obliged to meet this objection not with a denial,
but with an argument to show that the phenomena are not a function
of the Lime Street room.
As the list of seances held in 1923-24 shows/ the custom of sitting
partly at Dr. Brown's was terminated on August 18th, 1923. During
the balance of these two years, and exclusive of five sittings given in
Paris and London during December, 1923, seventeen seances were held
outside Lime Street, on eight different premises in or near Boston, in
New York, in Buffalo and in Niagara Falls. It continues to be a
matter of principle to sit now and then in some other place. Barring
the one occasion on which Dingwall took the medium to Mrs. Hemen-
way's residence, she sat outside Lime Street for the first time in 1925
on March 6th, at the DeWyckoff apartment in New York. No record
was made; but Crandon received an oral statement from De Wyckoff
enabling him to refer to the seance in one of his own records, with the
statement that "good physical results were obtained, especially the
lifting of a silver plate from floor to table and back, and much inde-
pendent voice. There was no cabinet."
' M. M., Chapter LIII.
6!J
70 THE MARGERY ·MEDIUMSHIP
The experiment of sitting in a strange place was repeated
<>n April 2nd, at Dr. Richardson's residence. Despite Richardson's
long and intimate connection with the mediumship and with the Cran-
.dons, this was the first time that his house had been used for a sitting.
The full record follows :
This was the first time Margery had sat in this house, and we
had some doubts about the rooms, etc. Events proved that VValter
was entirely at his case, though Mark and John failed to come
[as had been hoped, and as was one large reason for sitting on
these premisesJ. The sitting was held in the music room on the
grom.
1d floor, which is about 25 x 15 feet, and has nine window~ .
These were darkened by drawing shades and curtains; but even
then slight shafts of light entered, to which however Walter made
no objections. The only circumstance that appeared to annoy him
was the rather frequent passing of automobiles.2
Before the sitters
were aware of their approach, almost, ' 'Valter would say : "There
come the neighbors," and would pause until the glare and rumble
had ceased. He also noticed a peculiar sound in the victrola, due .
to some mechanical deficiency. This instrument played "Souvenir"
throughout the sitting, but [in the absence of an electric motor J
had to be wound by Verna J. from time to time.
The cabinet was made by a three-way screen, over which was
thrown a brown blanket, a specially warm cover, later called a
horse-blanket by 'iValter. The cabinet was so placed that its left
wing touched the keyboard of the piano, leaving perhaps two
octaves exposed, between the hands of Margery and Richardson.
Walter twice played distinct notes on request, under double control
of the medium and Crandon [by the R ichardsbns J.
Walter came through very quickly and whistled his greetings,
as usual. He said the boys [John and Mark] were not present,
but he expected them later. They were busy, he said, on some work
of their own; whatever the reason, they did not turn up. However,
as ' 'Valter said, we felt we ought to be glad to get anything on first
trial in a new place. The first thing he did was to lift the small
lighted megaphone from the :floor to the table. He asked for the
large one, a little later, and was rather vexed that it should have
been forgotten. H e played skillfully with the lighted doughnut,
carrying it up to the inside of the cabinet, where it remained for
some time, at a height about on a level with the medium's head,
2 Lime Street, being one block long, is absolutely free from all tmmc save that
-originating in or destined to this block; so that, though the seance room is at the
front of the house, automotive noises are seldom hea rd therein, and automotive lights
:never seen from its fourth-floor level.- J. M. B.
SEANCES OUTSIDE LIME STREET PREMISES: 1925 71
looking as though stuck in this position. Adler affirmed, later,
that this was the longest excursion the doughnut had ever made
from the P sychic. Later vValter placed it upon Richardson's
thumb and otherwise manipulat ed it.
In the expectation of having Mark and John present with
Walter, Mrs. Richardson had brought two objects formerly belong-
ing to John. With Walter's consent she now placed one of these
on the table which stood before the medium. It was a glass ball,
quite heavy; and as Walter said that it "did not interest" him at
all, it was removed and the second article put on the table. This
was a white T eddy bear, about eleven inches tall, dressed in
trousers and a jacket, with pocket and cuffs and buttoned down
the front. It was a favorite toy with J olm Richardson, and has
been kept in a box along with another tiny wooden bear, one and
one-half inches high. Mrs. Richardson brought this box into the
room on the present occasion, telling nobody; and she left it on
a shelf until the sitting was in progress in the dark. As it was
wrapped in a cloth carefully pinned up, she feels safe in saying
that nobody knew of its presence save herself. Only at the pres-
ent juncture did she undo this package, take out the T eddy bear
and feel in the box for the other little wooden one without finding
it, and lay the T eddy bear on the table with no word as to what it
was. Walter at once began to play with it and talk about it;
but he grasped at once and fell in with the idea of keeping the
secret from the other sitters. He did not actually name the toy,
calling it "Josiah," saying something about "bears and bearskin
coat s," "what nice cuffs," "who made these clothes?", "I undid
the buttons," "won't I tease the boys !", etc. He said "don't put
it on its face," and then Mrs. Richardson sat the animal up; which
he observed correctly, although apparently wrong about its first
position. It soon became evident to Mrs. Richardson, from his
words and actions, that he had found the small bear which had
eluded her. This he tried to place in her hands; but he failed, the
small shape falling to the floor, where there was some difficulty
locating it after the sitting. 'iValter then picked up a handker-
chief, from the floor he said, and dropped it into Mrs. Richard-
son's hand. During all the time he was playing with the toys,
none of the sitters knew what he was talking about, except her.
Richardson took it to be a toy animal, but visualized the wrong one.
At the end, the little buttons were found unfastened and one arm was
out of its sleeve. Mrs. Richardson feels fairly certain that vValter
did this, but hesitates to make a positive statement since the bear
had not been out of the box for months and was not seen by her on
72 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the present occasion until the end of the seance. The incident
shows supernormal knowledge, beyond a doubt.3
The independent voice was next tested, by Walter's orders.
The medium filled her mouth with water, which she afterwards ex-
pelled again; and while she held it VValter spoke with great distinct-
ness the words: "David buried all my enemies in a damned deep
trench." One of his witticisms of this evening was: "My Ethical
Culture'1
consists of 'To H ell with my enemies.'"
He reproached us for coming to sittings "all fagged out." This,
he said, was not fair to him. Several sitters, those nearest the
Psychic, felt touches as of some heavy but soft object on knees
and feet. Margery herself also reported this. Walter lifted a
tambourine from the table and jingled it in rhythm in the air,
apparently about one foot up. He picked a piece of paper from
the floor and put it in Richardson's hand.
Leaving, he said the force was spent and he was afraid to stay
any longer. There was "double control" during a great part of
the evening.
This record, of course, demonstrates nothing more than that the
phenomena of the mediumship can be obtained outside the Lime Street
house. The demonstration was repeated with added emphasis during
May and June, 1925, in connection with the Code-Hoagland inquiry.5
During this period, six seances were held in a laboratory room in the
Harvard "yard," and two in Hoagland's residence.6
Even from the
ultimately adverse viewpoint of the Code-Hoagland report and its
collateral documents, it seems granted that the action throughout these
seances was fundamentally parallel with what is to be observed in
Lime Street. That, of course, is in the last analysis all that can be
expected. Sittings on strange premises cannot, of themselves, deter-
mine the question of absolute validity ; they are pertinent only to the
exclusion of such fraud as depends upon preparation of the premises.
The Harvard sittings perhaps afford, in this respect, what the
mathematician would recognize as a local maximum of demonstration;
a This statement, of course, is predicated upon the assumption that tluoughout
this episode control was valid and continuous of both the Psychic's bauds and both
Crandon 's. Whether this 'ras actually the case, or whether reliance had to be put
in Crandon 's statement of control for ·a part of the sitting, the record does not
clearly inclicate.- J . M. B.
4 'rhe pertinence of this lies in Cranclon 's lifelong interest in the Ethical Culture
movement. Doubtless the conversation l1acl turned in that direction.-J. M. B.
G Ohap. IX.
a See M . H. V., pp. 38-82, for detailed records.
SEANCES OUTSIDE LIME STREET PREMISES: 1925 73
but the demonstration must be kept alive by continuation of the prac-
tice of sitting, every now and then, elsewhere than in Lime Street.
This was done, during the summer of 1925, by using the Crandon sum-
mer cabin on Point Shirley, some fifteen miles out of the city along the
North Shore. While this cabin is the property of the Crandons, it is
free from many of the objections of general principle that apply t o
the Lime Street seance room. In particular, the walls are entirely
bare, and the cottage is of course detached on all sides. The space
under the floor is open to free examination by anyone who will crawl
under the house. There is freedom from the city noises. It is a very
simple matter indeed to conduct a search of the premises which ~nables
one to say that any invasion of the seance room must originate out of
doors ; whereas, as I have once t estified/ the Lime Street premises are
quite complicat ed.
The cottage is mostly one large living room, 24 feet by 20, and
got up to resemble as closely as possible a ship's cabin. Infinitesimal
st aterooms opening out of this room serve for sleeping quarters, bath,
etc.; and at the rear there is a galley, similarly opening out of the
main room, and measuring 16 by 7. Behind this is an unfinished
shed or lean-to. Seances are held in the living room. There is a sky-
light, and there are windows clear across the front ; there are no ade-
quate provisions for darkening these. It must be extremely light in
this room when there is any moon at all-it just happens that when-
ever I have attended sittings t here, there has been none. U nder these
latter conditions, of.course, darkness is quite satisfactory.
Seances had been held in the Cabin before, as a reference to 111. 111.
will indicate. The first time in 1925 when a sitting occurred at the
Beach was on July 12th. The record gives an adequate idea of the
difference in general conditions, and of the action obtained :
The seance was in the open room, with no cabinet. The vic-
b·ola was kept going by D r. Brown.8
The. room was darkened
only relatively. W alter came through almost at once with merry
whistle and j est , in spite of the absence of cabinet. After a while
he proceeded upon his present plan of giving nothing but phe-
nomena in red light. The bell-box9
was rung the number of times
requested by Hubbs, Mrs. Hubbs and Mrs. Thaler with one hun-
dred per cent success.
7 M. M., p. 107.
a W ho had to wincl it, and set it back to the beginning of the tune, as these
operations became ne~essary.-J. M. B .
9 The Scientific American moclel.- J. M. B.
74 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Still in good red light Walter proceeded to work on the straw
basket. This was placed on the table, and after a few minutes
Crandon was able to leave the circle and stand over by the red
light, where he was told to turn it on for ten seconds. This was
done ; and the basket was discovered with one edge resting on the
edge of the table farthest from the Psychic, and slanting off the
table forty-five degrees from the vertical, a position impossible by
normal means. It then was seen to lower itself into completely
horizontal position, the bottom alone touching the edge of the
table.10
It then lifted itself back to the vertical and fell over on
the t able. In the next period of red light, the basket was seen in
front of Hubbs. In the red light it was then rotated through ninety
degrees, and then slowly fell to a horizontal position11
toward the
chair just vacated by Crandon. During each of these red light
periods, a striking manifestation occurred. \Vhile the basket was
in motion in red light, ~Talter whistled four or five notes, loudly
and distinctly, above and behind the Psychic. Each of us looked
at her mouth and found it tightly closed at this moment.
Later in the sitting a light was seen at Mrs. Thaler';; back,
and she felt a touch on her right hand, which Walter said was by
someone on his side.
The Cabin next came into use for seance purposes when I remained
in Boston over the weekend following my sittings of July 16th-18th/2
to spend Sunday the 19th with the Crandons and other old friends at
the Beach. We went down in three carloads, taking some of the
seance paraphernalia with us. We stayed into the evening and held
a seance, during the preparations for which I managed to execute a
search of the entire premises which was quite adequate to the exclusion
of all unauthorized persons. The duty of drawing up a record was
assigned to me; I discharged it while the party was breaking up and
preparing for the drive back to the city:
Aside from the sitters in t he circle, Bird was free in the
room, keeping the victrola wound and reset to the starting point
in the absence of motor and repeat er, generally observing the phe-
nomena from a roving position of best momentary advantage, etc.
T he circle was originally formed directly beneath the skylight,
t o cover which no attempt was made. \1
\Talter came through and
requested that we move toward the front of the house, so as to
to And the entire basket being off the table, at the side, without visible supporl.
11 In tl1e air off the table, to oue side.-J. M. B .
12 See Chap. XIV.
SEANCES OUTSIDE LIME STREET PREMISES: 1925 75
get more out of the very dim diffused light from this source.
[There was no moon. J After the circle was thus moved, Bird
remained for the most part in the bt._;k of the room; and from such
position, at all t imes of the seance, the several sitters were sil-
houetted to him against the windows. When he moved around to
the window side of the circle [occasionally], the sitters on the
room side were not in the least degree visible to him, nor was any
of the furniture in the center of the room visible; so he infers that
he was invisible to the sitters so long as he remained in the quarter
away from the windows.
The first action consisted in free motion of the dark megaphone,
as described by several sitters, in the space above the table. Bird's
eyes were not yet sufficiently accommodated to the darkness to see
this; the others were closer to it, and in large part reported it by
the senses of touch and hearing.
The large basket, with luminous ribbon band and three luminous
spots on the handle, was placed on the table. Walter took off the
band and dropped it on the floor, then was thought by some sitters
to have placed this on Margery's feet or ankles. The basket moved
very freely about the table. Once or twice red light was permitted
for a short period [a red bulb had been brought out and substituted
for the white one in a socket on the wall which Bird could reachJ;
and the basket was found, on the onset of this light, teetering on
the edge of the table, clearly without adequate support, as in the
case of the note-book on July 9th and the basket on the l2th.13
It went far over and off the table almost into horizontal position,
recovered, remained in teetering balance, and finaly fell or was
carried to the floor. Twice thrown away by V\Talter, it was the
first time recovered by Bird and the second time permitted to remain
out of action. . .
Either the basket or the doughnut, Bird is not sure which, was
recovered by \iValter after it had dropped to the floor at the side
of the table remote from the Psychic. The doughnut was moved
freely about the table, and once or twice was recovered from the
floor at points nearer the Psychic than implied in the preceding
sentence. There was here no silhouetting of the teleplasmic hand,
as such; but on numerous occasions there were rapid eclipses of
luminous objects on the table, apparently by V\Talte.r's terminal
in transit.
During many of the more impressive acts there was control by
Bird of the Hubbs-Margery link; and by Mrs. Hubbs of the Cran-
13 See pp. 243 and 74, respectively.
76 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
don-Psychic link.u Bird's control of the junction was usually
supplemented by control of the Psychic's head through contact
with his own.
Late in the · sitting Hubbs, at Walter's invitation, put his
luminous wristwatch on the table. It moved at least a foot in the
direction straight toward Hubbs, and therefore diagonally toward
the corner of the table at the Psychic's left. This direction wa's
about sixty degrees removed from a line joining the Psychic with
the initial position of the watch. The watch, too, went to the edge
of the table in red light and t eetered there; and of course the claim
of a thread or other connection meets difficulties here which do not
arise in the case of the doughnut; for the watch was produced from
Hubb's wrist during the seance.
Bird exercised far greater freedom of exploration about moving
objects than he would have dared admit during the progress of
the seance. In this he met no contacts whatever save in the case
of the moving watch, when he collided with what appeared to be a
cord, extending in the direction of travel of the watch. H e satis-
fied himself that this had been the leather strap on which the watch
is mounted; further immediate exploration by Bird indicated that
this was extended in precisely the direction of the watch's travel,
and subsequent experiment resulted in duplicating, from this strap,
the sensation previously encountered during the seance darkness.
The Code bell-box was placed on the table; the ext ernal hinged
board was opened and closed by w·alter, and the bell was rung
several times.
The t able used was the round dining table which is part of the
permanent fittings of the cabin. T here was no cabinet at all; the
Psychic sat free in the room like any other sitter. Walter's whistle
was once heard from a point which all sitters placed at the side
of the Cabin, Temote from t he Psychic and well outside the circle.
On the following Sunday, J uly 26th, another seance was held at
the cabin, under much more impressive conditions. Mrs. Bird was in
Boston with me for my sittings of July 23rd- 25th; and at the.Cran-
dons' invitation, we were living in the cabin at Point Shirley, driving
in to Boston each day and back to the Beach each evening after the
seance. "Te were thus in residence at the cabin from Friday morning
until Monday morning ; so that when the crowd arrived for Sunday
HAt first glance it looks as though J might more profitably have controlled the
CmnC!on-Psychic link. But if confederacy can be charged against either Hubbs or
Mrs. Hubbs it can be charged against them both ; and I then prefer to have the
position dictated by the fact that MargeTy is right-h::mclecl.- J . M. B.
SEANCES OUTSIDE LIME STREET PREMISES: 1925 77
at the beach, it was in many respects as though they were visiting us
in our own house. I think even the critic of hostile disposition must
grant that under these circumstances we have a much clearer demon-
stration of the innocence of the premises than it was possible for me
to have the week before. Both Crandon and I made records; his was
in the usual form and mine was in the shape of adequate but extremely
sketchy notes, jotted down that night after the crowd had ldt and
before I retired. I was on the road home until a very late hour Mon-
day, and hence received Crandon's record before I had had time to
expand my own into a finished form. Accordingly I here present his
record, with certain amplifications from my own notes. I make this
explanation merely as a matter of history, and not in any sense to
dodge responsibility for the record; it may be read as though it were
mme.
Bird was free in the room to tend the victrola and to control
at his pleasure. There was no cabinet. The darkness was much
more effective than last Sunday; at no time was there the slightest
visibility, to Bird, of silhouettes of the other sitters against the
windows, though he was almost continuously in position to see this
had the effect been sensible.
Walter came through promptly, and said his force was low, but
that he came rather than disappoint us. He at once rang the
hole bell-box several times, despite the seal over all the openings
as described in previous records ;15
then he ordered various pieces
of kitchen hardware brought in and played with them, mostly on
the floor in a fashion that would have been evidential only with a
foot control of extreme severity-which we did not have. At one
st age or another Murray and Mrs. Bird reported touches.
\'Valter finally instructed the sitters to put out personal belong-
ings on the table, for him to identify. During these identifications,
Bird stood directly behind the Psychic, reaching around over her
shoulders so that ·with his left hand he could control the junction
between her and Murray, with his right that between her and
Crandon. Throughout this period, with minor exceptions, he was
continuously conscious of contact with all four of these hands;
and as an incident of his position, his head was in constant contact
with the P sychic's.
There was no element of supernormal attribution by \'Valter
of each object to its proprietor; rather, he called for each sitter
by name to put out something. The object s offered m response
10 See p. 12,6, top, for summary of the facts referred to here.
78 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
were therefore on the table singly, and the only supernormal ele-
ment lay in Walter's statement of their identity. As each object
was successfully or unsuccessfully named, it was withdrawn by its
owner and Walter called upon another sitter. The objects offered,
the sitters presenting them, Walter's performance, and the degree
of control by Bird in accordance with the above description, follow:
J. H. Brown; a penknife. So identified by 'iValter. Brown
did not respond for an interval, whereupon Walter added: "It
may be a pencil." The knife was in fact smooth and round
to an unusual degree for such an object. Full control by Bird.
Gerke; a magnifying glass in its leather case. Identified
in three stages: leather, glass, a magnifying glass in a leather
case. Full control by Bird.
Dr. Brown; a bill (money) of unstated denomination.
Identified at once by 'iValter's remark: "Take back your money,
Bos'n".16
Full control by Bird.
Bird; a handkerchief. Identified by the words: "Take up
your handkerchief, Birdie." Full control by Bird, his left
hand which put out the handkerchief sweeping back to a posi-
tion of control over such a path that it would have met either
of the hands under its control had they, too, been under the
necessity of making a similar return. Before again releasing
either of these hands Bird verified the identity of both.
Murray; a purse. Successfully identified. No memoran-
dum of this identification in Bird's record, and hence no knowl-
edge of state of control.
Dr. Brown, called upon next for an object, robbed Laura
Crandon, at his left, of a hair-pin. No indication of protest
or surprise from her was audible to Bird, whose first inkling of
what had occurred came from Walter's words: "Ha, ha ; Eddie;
you can't fool me. Laura, take back your hairpin." Full
control by Bird.
J. H. Brown; a penny.. Identification slow, halting, and
without any definite ultimate success. This is the more inter-
esting, since this was the one identification during which Bird's
control was not satisfactory.17
lG Walter commonly calls Dr. Brown this, in allusion to Crandon 's yachting
days.-J. M. B.
11 My memorandum does not specify what the deficiency was; it simply says
''control bacl. '' I think it probable I had gone to wind or set back the victrola,
and that the identification was started while I was away from my post. I had to
leave my position thus, several times during the course of the identifications. In
every other instance save this, an entire episode, from Walter's calling for the stated
sitter to contribute an object to his final success in identification, fell entirely between
SEANCES OUTSIDE LIME STREET PREMISES: 1925 79
Gerke was next called upon by Walter; and he started to
get out a cigarette. In the meantime, Dr. Brown possessed
himself of another piece of Laura Crandon's property, this time
her shoe, and placed this on the table. Walter said: "Thought
you'd fool me again, did you, Laura? ·It's your shoe." Where-
upon he threw the shoe to the floor. By this time, Gerke had
his cigarette on the table; \Valter immediately identified it, too.
Full control by Bird throughout this.
Bird; a commutation ticket. Walter identified it as a paper.
control by Bird being satisfactory, under a technique identical
with the one employed before when he had to put out an object
for identification.
Crandon; a pair of scissors of odd design. Walter described
this object as "scissors with a hole in it," quite correctly. No·
memorandum of control, this item being missing from Bird's
record.
Bird, invited to contribute two objects at once, could find
only his "keytainer" with perhaps half a dozen keys in it, and a
wooden toothpick which he came upon, loose in his pocket.
vValter identified the former as "a case with something in it;"
the latter he characterized as "too personal" to be named. No
memorandum of control for this episode.
Out of all this, the points to be stressed are these: In the first
place it was quite out of the question for the Psychic to handle the
various objects as they were put out. In not more than two instances
at the outside was there audible to me any noise accompanying their
placing on the table by their owners or contributors. But after they
had been so placed, something was distinctly heard to handle them;.
and Walter's words carry more than one index that identification was
by a tactile process. Anything in the nature of vision, normal or
hyperesthetic, by the Psychic I think must be ruled out. My line of
vision across the table coincided almost absolutely with hers, and I
could see no slightest silhouetting of the sitters opposite us. I think
it ridiculous to talk of visual hyperesthesia under such absence of light.
We must, then, if we seek the oblique explanation, fall back upon
the hypothesis of confederacy. B·nt it was TiValter's voice, with all
its habitual nuances and all its habitual quick hu,mor cmd all its
habitual effect of co?ning from the immediate vicinity of the Psychic's
two of my absences ancl was therefore prosecuted uncler my continuous control. On
each Tetum, of course, I verifiecl the identity of the hands on resuming control..
-J. M. B.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
head, that did the tallcing. And we were not even m Lime Street,
where the fireplace and the comparatively easy invadability of the
room offer the impervious skeptic some precarious foothold. Short
of attacking my account itself, I must confess I do not see any answer
in terms of fraud. . Even a confederacy of prior arrangement, so that
the P sychic knew what obj ec~s were to be put out, by what sitters,
would work only if it involved Gerke and myself.
Again on the following Sunday, August 2nd, there was a party at
the Beach followed by a seance. There was good moonlight; to escape
this, the sitting was held in the shed back of the kitchen, which has no
openings of any description other than the two doors, one to the yard
and one to the kitchen. The record tells us of a decidedly brilliant
seance:
'i\Te sat in the shed, which was cool and absolutely dark. Out-
side of the constant recurrence of a small star-like light, the phe-
nomena were practically all in the red light. Dr. Brown was
outside the circle to keep the victrola going.
Walter came t hrough at once and first worked on Dingwall's
small illuminated basket. 'iVe were given in all about fourteen
periods of red light in which to observe the manifest ations. The
small basket was seen resting on one of its edges on the west end
of the t able. From that point, in the light it erected itself to
vertical and then lowered itself carefully over on the table. This
was repeated on the north and east sides of the table.
Then Walter called for some personal object, whereupon Cran-
don put on the table his handkerchief. At the next period of red
light the handkerchief was not to be seen; but then it slowly re-
appeared up over the north end18
of the table, and climbed up on
the table. ·
The handl~erch i ef was next seen within the small megaphone;
and it grew out of the big end, just as a rose or head of lettuce
might grow. This was repeated three times. Then the handker-
chief was next seen on the back of Murray's head and neck, moving
down to the side of his neck. It seemed to Murray as though there
· was something inside the handkerchief; and Walter said: "Of
course there is." Several other small personal objects were placed
on the table by various sitters and moved from six to nine inches.
As the various objects climbed up on the edge of the table and
moved about, the Psychic's head was moved violently and irreg-
ularly in her efforts to see the phenomena; and it could by no
18 The Psyehie was at the south end, Crandon testifies f rom a Yery clear memory.
)
SEANCES OUTSIDE LIME STREET PREMISES: 1925 81
calculation be thought to be connected therewith. H and control
was perfect throughout.19
It would seem fair enough, in view of the use of the lean-to for the
above sitting, to regard it as having been held in a different place
from previous sittings at the Point. From this viewpoint, when the
uext seance was staged at the Beach, on August 16th, a third "prem-
ises" was used-the garage. The floor here, of course, is of solid
concrete, with no space under it; and it is of interest to remark that
in the shed where the seance of the 2d was held, this is also the case.
Dr. Brown was on the outside of the circle to keep the
victrola going. The room used (the garage) was absolutely
black.20
No luminous controls were employed.21
Walter came at
once and called at once for playing cards. Dye then opened in
red light a freshly bought, sealed package of playing cards, with
the revenue stamp on them. These he shuffled in the dark and put
under his leg in the chair. At Walter's request, in the dark
D ye then put out one card at a time; and after \iValter had read
a card in the dark, which he did with increasing rapidity, the card
would be given to a particular sitter, until finally each sitter had
one card and some had two. Brown kept a list of the sitters and
the name of the card as given by \iValter . \iValter named eleven
cards complete, as regards denomination and suit; with two errors
as between Spades and Hearts. In addition, three face cards
occurred in the course of the test; of these he named the suit but
made no attempt to read the denomination, throwing these cards
on the floor instead.22
Save as indicated, all fourteen identifica-
tions of the cards were completely successful ; and only these four-
teen were attempted.
I think the most important aspect of these Cabin sittings is to be
found in the way they dovetail with the current Lime Street seances.
They amply support the generalization that the phenomena which
are being obtained at a given moment in Lime Street continue to occur
when the sittings are transferred to the Beach. The character of
10 'l'he visibility rendered this some\I·Ji::tt superfluous; in so far as it was neces-
sary, the failure of the record to mention doublr control lenves us to asmme that
Crandon's control of the P sychic's right "·as unchecked.-J. M. B.
20 It has one window and there are translucent panes in the doors. Both were
adequately blanketed.-J. M. B.
2l.See open reference No. 7, Vol. 2.
22See Chap. XXIII, particularly p. 293, top.
82 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the manifestations varies strongly from time to time, and must there-
fore be a function of so?ne variable; but that variable is emphatically
not the place of sitting.
With the onset of September, the Sunday parties at the Beach
were dropped; but the occasional sitting outside Lime Street and in
new places was not dropped. On September 17th, the mediumship
for the first time invaded the Litzelmann residence in Cambridge.
Both Margery and the Doctor have been in the house, socially and
professionally; but the seance record tells us that they had never been
in the room in which t.he sitting was held. The action centered entirely
about the Richardson voice machine, so the detailed record may best
he given elsewhere. Here we need only cite page 265 in support of
the statement that the seance was in every way a success, constituting
a good contribution to the sequence by which Richardson approached
certitude in his vocal tests.
vVhen next the mediumship went abroad, it was to give, or to hold,
a seance in the residence of Mr. William Foss, of Concord, Mass. Mr.
Foss is himself a physical medium of considerable fame in the Boston
territory. He sits always with a considerable number of his family,
if I may generalize from t he reports that reach my ears; and he ad-
mits outsiders sparingly and with reluctance. Comstock, of the
Scientific American Committee, at one time gained the old gentleman's
confidence and attended a considerable number of sittings. Conditions
of occurrence and of observations were of course never what he would
have desired; but he felt that there was approximately an even chance
that the manifestations were valid. If they are so, the stories that
one hears of Foss would place him close in Margery's class, in all
respects save that of range or versatility. But we shall sec immediately
below that on Foss' own admission these stories are exaggerated.
On September 28th, 1925, Margery and the Doctor journeyed to
Concord and a seance was held in the Foss residence. As is usually
the case when Margery sits with another medium, the result seemed to
consist more or less in a crossing of the two mediumships, rather than in
a clear-cut performance by either medium at which the other could be
regarded solely in the light of a sitter. Crandon's record follows:
Before the sitting, Foss, who is seventy-five years old but very
active, sat with hands on a table in bright white light in the living
room, while intelligent raps in code came on the table apparently
without any possibility of fraud. The sitting was held in the
kitchen, around a table five feet square. A slie·ht white light came
SEANCES OUTSIDE LIME STREET PREMISES: 1925 83
through two windows; a third window back of Foss was covered
by a blanket.
The table almost immediately became mobile, with motion as
though it were on a ship at sea. Then the whole house, or the
portion of it in which we were, shook violently in periods of ten
to twelve seconds. This was noted by all; Foss had repeatedly
observed it [in his own seances]; it was not apparently possible
to do it normally, though we tried this after the sitting. Then came
a lot of raps in threes of differing intensities, apparently answer-
ing yes or no to questions of identification put by Foss or Randall.
Things were then quiet for a spell, and in order to start them
again Foss sang "Nearer, My God, to Thee." At this there was
a low whistle of surprise from behind Margery. This was very
:welcome to the two of us. Then Foss sang "Old Black Joe" and
Walter- for it was unmistakably he- broke in with an obligato
accompaniment which was very beautiful. Walter was then intro-
duced all around and seemed in very friendly and tactful mood.
Next there came an apparent effort of someone to speak between
Foss and Randall. 'i\T
alter kept encouraging this by saying,
"Come on, Joe. Now, Joe; it's easy. Let me count one, two,
three, Joe; then speak." "Joe" then came through in a very
rapid whisper quite new to us, and in the region between Foss and
Randall, saying: "You usually have strands on your wrists and
ankles." This we took to be addressed to Margery, and we felt
it more or less evidential. 'iVe asked Walter how Joe would know
that, and 'i\Talter said: "I told him. Do you think we are all
fools over here?"
Then followed a period of raps of all intensities on the table,
ending with a bang as from a gun, which startled everybody. Foss
now said a pistol was being held against his forehead, and we shortly
heard a pistol hammer lifted up. We had no enthusiasm for this.
Crandon got many touches on left foot, ankle and thigh. Papers
were. taken from his left coat pocket, brushed across his face, and
put back in the pocket. It was mechanically impossible for anyone
in the room to have done this. It was apparently done by Walter,
who chuckled in glee. Then Crandon was nearly tilted out of
his chair, sideways, three times. Walter said Joe was doing this.
Walter then told us to call him up later at Lime Street, and
departed.
Foss said that he had never attended a sitting like that; that
he usually has many voices. The stories of his "materializations"
turn out to be a mere matter of touches with apparent hands; he
has never seen an apparition. The control conditions during our
84 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
sitting were good, and we feel there is no doubt of Foss' integrity.
He says he sits not over three times a year. He says further that
he can go out in a field with a tin pan in bright sunlight and raps
will come on the pan.
On the way home Walter whistled once in the car. H e told us
later that he rode home with us on account of the taxicab strike.23
At 11 :30 we called on Walter in Lime Street, and he said he had to
stay around whenever the Kid sat, in order that no other control
should get hold of her and do her possible damage.
From October 30th to November 5th, 1925, Margery was in Buffalo
and Niagara Falls, on family and personal errands. During her stay,
as in December, 1924, she gave sittings-five in all, to a total of about
thirty-five sitters. This time, however, Crandon remained in Boston,
nnd the sittings went on without him. The brief memorandum drawn
up by Crandon, from Margery's oral report of her trip, follows:
Among the sitters on two occasions was a Mr. L amont, a
medium, of Buffalo. This medium's control is a "Mr. Fox," alleged
to be an English general who passed over seventy or eighty years
ago. At these sittings Walter came through, and there was a
large amount of comedy as he conversed with "Mr. Fox" through
the entranced Lamont. The contrast between the gay and ener-
getic Canadian (Walter) and the dignified Britisher kept all the
sitters convulsed with laughter. A large assortment of luminously
marked objects was levitated about the region in front of the
medium, with control of the medium constantly changing between
four or five of the men sitters. Among these sitters was "Jones,"24
who is apparently developing as a medium.
Anything which might be said here in summary on the major theme
of the present chapter has been said on pages 69 and 72. The two
final sittings of this group, however, introduce a new theme, in ex-
pansion upon which it is in order to observe that whenever Margery
sits with other mediums, there may be anticipated an interesting com-
bination of the two series .of phenomena or an interesting interplay
between the two sets of controls. This theme may be pursued through
p. 334 and Chapter XXXIII to the chapter, falling in the second
volume of this t ext and not yet numbered when this page goes to press,
dealing with the interplay between Margery and W'illiam Cartheuser.
2a A typical bit of Wnlter humor.-J. M. B.
u See Chaps. XLI, XLII.
CHAPTER IX
The Code-Hoagland Episode
By the Editor
In August, 1924, Mr. Foster Damon, Instructor of English at
Harvard, was introduced to the Crandons and had a sitting. At
several occasions during the ensuing autumn he returned to the Lime
Street seance room, bringing with him Mr. Robert Hillyer and Mr.
Grant H. Code, incumbents of academic positions similar to his own.
The three made, in the academic and literary sense, a rather distin-
guished group. Damon has conducted a good deal of research into
the practices of medieval alchemy, which he finds to parallel present-
day metapsychics to a surprising degree. Hillyer is a poet of some
distinction; Code has written verse and short stories, and in addition
is an amateur conjurer and contortionist of rather more than average
ability.
From what they saw of the mediumship in the latter part of 1924
(Damon having six sittings, Hillyer and Code three each), they ac-
quired a state of mind which I thinl{ may best be described as com-
prising a large degree of incipient conviction. This went to the length
where one of them presented Margery with a copy of his latest book,
with an enthusiastic inscription on the fly-leaf testifying to hi~ belief
in her supernormal powers; and where they used their experiences in
Lime Street as a basis for the assignment of themes to their under-
graduate courses. In addition, the entire group in a general way and
Code in particular came into a cordial personal friendship with the
Crandons.
These young men at this time were quite out of patience with Pro-
fessor McDougall for what they, in common with the Crandons and
myself, regarded as his bungling consideration of the mediumship.
When, as they and I saw it, Dingwall continued the identical bungling
course which McDougall had pursued, and showed a large McDougall
influence, their indignation became extremely real. They enlisted the
aid of Mr. Hudson Hoagland, a graduate student who had previously
been majoring in physics but had recently transferred his allegiance
to psychology, and Mr. John Marshall, regarded as one of the more
85
86 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
brilliant members of the Senior class; and they began an intensive
contact with the mediumship which they hoped might lead to its
greater academic respectability and its more competent examination.
I believe that they had no more definite plan, at first, than this. Their
first renewed contact came on March 13th, 1925, when Damon, Mar-
shall and Hillyer attended a seance, being the only sitters outside
Adler and the immediate family.1
The same three, plus Hoagland,
sat on the 15th,2
this being Hoagland's introduction as the seance of
the 13th was Marshall's.
Following this, the aims of the Harvard group became somewhat
more ambitious, turning more or less definitely in the direction of a
set series of seances to be conducted by them. In anticipation of this,
they had turned their attention to the construction of seance-room
apparatus; and they had produced a very much better thought-out
and better finished version of the mechanical bell-box than that which
Dingwall had hastily constructed for use in his own sittings. It is this
bell-box which I describe on page 117; Dingwall's own model was
relatively crude. The general principles of design follow his, how-
ever; and inasmuch as the introduction of the new mechanical bell-box
resulted in the old one's becoming obsolete, it has been customary to
refer to the new one, like the old, simply as the Dingwall bell-box.
The details of the design, and all the work of construction, it must be
emphasized, are to be credited to the young men from Cambridge.
They brought this revised Dingwall bell-box to Lime Street on
March 29th and attempted a sitting, with Marshall, Damon and Hoag-
land in more or less complete control of all potential sources of fraud.3
They drew a total blank. Walter explained, after they had gone, his
reasons for withholding the phenomena ;4
and promised to do better
the next time they came. The record of this·date is drawn in a form
which seems to recognize Hoagland as the active head of the Harvard
group. It is a fact that the others brought him in, with the idea that
he had a laboratory technique and au experience in dealing with
physical problems which they lacked; and that his combination of
physics and psychology was just what was needed for the work in
hand. Equally, Hoagland regarded himself as the eyes and mind of
the Harvard group, looking very much down upon the inexperience.
1 Pp. 22, 50.
2 P. 51.
3 See open reference No. 8, Vol. 2.
• See open reference No. 9, Vol. 2.
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 87
idealism and general unscientific background of his colleagues. A
little later in their game I spent a long afternoon with him at his
residence, in the course of which he put to me very strongly this esti-
mate of his own and his colleagues' abilities.
Their consideration of the mediumship now began rapidly to crys-
talize; and when next they sat, it was under ~ quite definite program
of trying for something very conclusive with the Dingwall bell-box,
in the absence so far as might be of all superfluous sitters. The date
was April 17th; and Crandon's record may be given in full:
Present to left: D amon, Cocle,5
Adler, Marshall , Hoagland,
Crandon. W alter came through promptly in about six minutes,
a nd mutual introductions were carried out.6
Hoagland had brought
from Harvard the finished mechanical bell-box designed by Ding-
wall.7
After getting acquainted with it for a while, Walter found
no difficulty in ringing this bell with great vigor in the dark, and
thereafter during the sitting whenever something else was accom-
plished successfully, W alter banged with great vigor up on the DB.8
This and all other phenomena during the evening were done under
strictly double control condit ions.
In the dark, \iValter exhibited levitation and other forms of
telekinesis of the luminous basket and the doughnut. Then he had
each of the sitters in turn p ut his nose into the doughnut while
he pulled the hair and stroked the neck of each.9
The big mega-
phone was then called for and beautiful levitation was shown, the
megaphone sailing above the t able in all directions with the great-
est freedom.
The H arvard group was next present on May l st ; the record ap-
pear s in full on page 39. W hile the DB was again present, the
sitting shows the same thing happening to these investigators that
later happened to me : their p rogram was deflected into close coinci-
dence with \iValter's current routine. Partly on this account, and
partly because of the difficulty of excluding social sitters and con-
trolling general conditions i~ L ime Street, the H arvard group now
advanced an extremely definite project that they be given dat es for a
series of highly formal sittings, to be held on premises supplied by
5 For the first time, in connecti·on with t his proj cct.-J. M. B.
G These must have involved t he npparntus ancl the program rather t han the sitters,
none of whom was strange.- J·. M. B.
7 A description ensues, which I omit since I cover it elsewhcre.-J. M. B.
s Di n ~wa.ll bell-box.
n See p. 50 for genemlization covNing this.
88 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
them and to be under their entire control save for whatever of general
reservations Cr andon might apply to them as he had applied to Ding-
wall. The immediate result of this p roject was seances Nos. 428, 432,
438, 442, 452, 453, 457 and 458, i·unning from May 19th to June
30th, 1925. The ultimate result has been a very complicated series of
facts and theories, about which ext reme controversy has centered.
Much has been published, but in fragmentary and often in partisan
fashion. N o orderly statement of all the facts has been attempted.
Such statement, with orderly assignment of the existing literature to
its proper place and without undue duplication of or quotat ion from
such literature, is now a p roblem of extreme difficulty.
I may most profitably set down first , without further explanation
for t he moment, that the young men from Harvard finally adjudged
the mediumship to be wholly without validity. I may then briefly sum-
marize the chronology of p ublicat ion. Following a period of uncer-
tainty as to whether their findings were to be published at all, and as
to the form and place of publication, Hoagland submitted to the
A tlantic Monthly a semi-popular account of their work. This ap-
peared in the A tlantic for November, 1925, page 666 ; I cite it here-
after as H 0/ag. A tl. I n the J ou,mal of the A.S.P .R . for December,
1925, I p ublished a criticism of H oagland's art icle, both in matters of
its face value and in mat ters of my own inside information of its
delinquencies and those of its author and his colleagues; all leading
me to conclude that this "exposure" possessed as little merit as Hou-
dini's had done. This article I cite hereafter as B . vs. H. Then,
H oagland having p ublished only his conclusions with a running com-
ment upon such of his data as were most in harmony with these, and
t here being no apparent hope of getting the full seance records before
the public in any other way, a group of Dr: Crandon's friends pub-
lished a pamphlet , the main p urpose of which was to carry these
records, but in which space was also given to considerable material in
rebuttal of the claims of the Harvard group. The title of this p am-
phlet is Marger y-H arvard-Veritas ; it appeared privately in Boston.
in 1926, though its title page carries a copyright date 1925; I cite it
hereafter as M. H . V. Although other material dealing primarily or
incidentally with the issues arising out of this episode has appeared
elsewhere, these three citations are all we need to make at this point
of our story.
By these citations, we may consider that the seance records them-
selves, Hoagland's treatment of them, and such of the defence as ap-
'i'HE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 89
pears in B. vs. H. or in M. H. V. are r ead into the p resent r ecord. The
first two are obviously available to my readers ; any who have not
seen the third may get copies from Cr andon while they last. I may,
however, summarize briefly the salient points of the H arvard sittings.
All were held either in Emerson H all, H arvard, or in Hoagland's resi-
dence. The official make-up of t he invest igating group was to include
only Code, Hoagland, D amon, Hillyer and Marshall. At their pleas-
ure, faculty members of higher r ank were to be invited in as observers.
Such obser vers were to sign the seance record and assume all other
due responsibilities, but were to have a hand only indirectly in any
final verdict which might issue from the investigation. The record was
to be dictaphonic, and was to comprise all significant fact s; t here were
to be no post-mortem allegations of fraud, a la H oudini.
Dr. D eborah F awcett or some other qualified woman was always
present t o examine the P sychic before and after the seance; and this
was to be clone more seriously than ever before or since with this
mediumship. Foot cont rol was left entirely to the luminous bands ;
hand control was supplemented in most sittings by a galvanic current
running through the circle and to a galvanomet er outside the room,
under constant watch of a sp ecially detailed observer.
On two occasions, dictaphonic accident r equired that the record
be drawn up or supplemented from the memories of the sitters. Once,
when I was in Boston at the date of a sitting, I was invited to attend
and did so. Other added sitters included P rofessor H a rlow Shapley
of the department of Astronomy, five times; D r. Hilbert F . D ay, sur-
geon, twice ; D r. E. G. Boring of the psychological laboratory, Dr.
S. B. V
Volbach of the Medical School, Professor vV. J. V. Ost erhout
of the Rockefeller Institute and P rofessor E . B. W ilson of " T ech.,"
once each.
Consider able new appar atus and new procedure was used. An
electrical bell-box of new modeP0
was conspicuous among t hese inno-
vations, as was a plaque r uled off by luminous lines in one-inch squares
a nd designat ed as the "coordinat e board." A means was employed of
determining that the electrical conductivity of Walter's t erminal was
substantially that of a human arm. The p henomena obtained wer e
telekinesis, with a const antly increasing degree of silhouetting of the
terminal against luminous grounds, notably t he coordinate board.
When I was present, the P sychic for the only time wore bloomers
10 See Chap. X.
90 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
sealed above and below to insulate the ordinary locus of anatomical
fraud. Paraffin and modelling clay were used to secure imprints from
Walter's terminal. Etc., etc.
During the course of their official sittings, the members of the
group individually or collectively attended other seances in Lime Street.
On May 24th all save Marshall were present at a demonstration of
Richardson's voice machine.11
On the 31st Code and Damon attended
a family gathering.11
a On June 18th, 19th and 20th I was conducting
serious seances in Lime Street; on all three occasions Damon ran the
dictaphone for me and Hoagland was in the circle, while Code was
present once.Ub And on the 25th, Damon and Code brought in another
English instructor, Dr. Hood, the Hole Bell-box12
being introduced to
Walter on this occasion.
These attendances are of some importance as emphasizing that t he
negative conclusion reached by the group involved a turnover of
opinion on their part. Of further significance in this direction is a
conference which I had with Hoagland, lasting an entire afternoon on
the occasion of my June visit t o Boston. We discussed the things
they were doing and planned to do, the program of my own sittings,
the general bearings of the one undertaking upon the other and how
we·might best avoid duplication of effort, the actual assistance which
they could render in my sittings, the make-up of their group and of
my circles, etc., etc., etc. ; all in a way making it utterly absurd to
suppose that in Hoagland's mind at this moment there reposed any
doubts about Margery's essential bona ficles and validity. \iVe even
discussed the bearing which the to-be-anticipated verdict of genuine-
ness might have upon Hoagland's academic work and his relations
with McDougall, under whom he was majoring.
My first inkling that this picture had changed came in a letter
from Crandon himself, advising me in a general way of the claim which
had been set up that the phenomena were produced normally, under a
hypnotic and auto-hypnotic setting which relieved both him and the
medium of the charge of conscious fraud; and telling me of one or
two inter views in which members of the group had put these views
before him. My first word from any member of the group itself came
a day or two later, in a letter from Code, dated July 5th. He wrote as
follows:
11 See p. 263. nb See Chap. XIII.
na See pp. 43, 61. 12 .See pp. 60, 62, 125.
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 91
This letter is strictly confidential. Recent developments in the
Lime Street case make it highly important that I see you for a
confidential talk as soon as possible. The case. apparently has a
solution that is not dishonorable for any of the parties involved.
It is not a question of the supernatural/ 3
but of a very delicate
and complicated problem in abnormal psychology, the nature of
which I cannot commit to writing. The strictest privacy is essen~
tial. Any publicity is to be deplored, especially since it is likely
to excite, irritate and complicate a very unstable mental situation.
It seems to me unwise to let the persons chiefly involved know that
I have communicated with you. At present I am in a position to
be able to influence them for their own good; I am acting solely
as their friend; and any destruction of this confidence in me would
put it out of my power to do anything for them. I write to you
partly because you control some lines of publicity on the case and
will best know what can be done. But I write to you chiefl.y as a
friend of the parties involved. You have it in your power to do
them inestimable service, and your intimate knowledge of the case
puts you in a unique position.
The highly melodramatic working of Code's mind, as indicated by
the veiled hints in place of direct statement as·to whom he was talking
about, the similar pussyfooting as to what he was talking about, and
the whole spirit of the letter in fact, seem entirely characteristic. In
our conference, held on July 9th, he dropped the fiction that we were
dealing anonymously with the parties; but he never ceased to deal
anonymously with the situation. He was greatly concerned, through-
out the period of my intimate contact with him, about the psycho-
logical catastrophe which hung over Lime Street and from which sal-
vation could be achieved only through him; but beyond indicating that
its incidence would follow from the moment when the Crandons them-
selves came to a realization of the truth of the hypnosis theory, he
was never able to reduce it to any more definite terms than those of
the above letter. And indeed, as much as anything the dominant
reason why he wanted to see me so badly turned out to be his fear
lest I publish in the Journal of the A. S. P. R. something about the
work of his group and their findings. When he was assured that I
had no intent of doing anything of the sort, he breathed more easily;
and only then was he able to discuss other aspects of the case.
It was from Code's lips at this time that I first had the story that
13 The wrong word; he means superno?·mal.-J. M. B.
92 THE MARGERY MEDIU:MSHIP
has been so often retold, as to just how the great discovery was made.
Substantially it came to this:
Repeatedly, during the seance of June 29th (the seventh and pen-
nltimate one held by the Harvard group), he had been dissatisfied
with the appearance of the luminous anklets. It seemed to him that
one of them was on the floor with a foot or a slipper lying over it to
prevent it from being seen as a f ull circle of light. Finally, he did
so see it for a moment, and he made the direct statement, for the dicta-
phone, that it was off the Psychic's foot. This Walter promptly con-
tradicted, and followed the contradiction by giving a more or less
convincing display of the visibility in proper semi-circular form and
of the proper mobility and other proper relationships of the two
ankle-bands. But Code, and perhaps some of the others, were not
convinced. As a matter of fact, Walter on the following evening ad-
mitted that "of course" the band had been off; but he said that, to
save the face of the group in the presence of a very supercilious guest
of Shapley's, he had denied it at the time.
The anklet, then, it is granted by all parties, was off. The record
is defective, in that it does not indicate whether the Psychic wore
slippers alone, or slippers with stockings. The fact is, she wore
slippel'S alone. Following the seance (of the 29th), Code remained
behind (at Hoagland's residence, where the sitting was held although
the record fails to specify it) with Damon and Hoagland, for pur-
poses of experiment. He found that with slippers over his bare feet
and anklets of the sort used in the seance and similarly applied, he
could very readily remove the luminous band, using the toes of the
other foot for the purpose. H e could put a foot or a loose slipper
over the freed anklet to preserve its semicircular aspect ; and with the
free foot or feet thus attained, he could duplicate a lot of t he phe-
nomena of the mediumship. Finally, he could restore the anklets to
place. The hypothesis was at once formulated that this was the modus
operandi of practically all the phenomena. It is not a fact that always
prior to this t ime Margery had sat without stockings ; but with refer-
ence to the H arvard sittings it appears that this had been the case.
It will be seen that Code's personality runs large through the pre-
ceding paragraphs. Through those that follow it will run larger.
'Ve have had Code making the critical observations and prosecuting
the critical experiments on which a theory of fraud is to be based.
' Vhen the group needed a spokesman to put their findings before me,
to try to win me over to adherence to their findings or at least to silent
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 93
a cquiescence ther ein, he took this function upon himself. And he did
· not stop here. H e proceeded to formulat e that precise theory of the
fraudulent origin and history of the phenomena which his .colleagues
were to espouse ; to usurp complete leadership of Hoagland's investi-
gation, in and out of the seance-room and in all its extra-official as
well as official functions ; and fin ally, to nominate himself for the deli-
cat e office of intermedia ry between the Crandons and the exposers, of
kind friend of the medium and her husband who was to save them from
the ruination which their own folly might be expect ed to bring down ·
upon them. His own story covering his actions before, during and
after the final seance of June 30th is told in p art in the previously
cited documents, and in r emaining part in a communication by him
printed in the PToceedings 13
of the (British) S.P.H. All t his may
appropriately be outlined here.
After the seance of June 29th and the sequel th.ereto in which Codr~
experimented with ways for escaping from the luminous foot-control,
the means of production of the Margery phenomena were believed to
have been fully discovered. Measures to prevent the use of this t ype
of fraud were to be taken at the sitting of June 30th. It was antici-
pated that this seance would then either turn out a blank; or would
r esult in the spontaneous offering of new and unfamiliar phenomena,
of whatever sort and by whatever means a spontaneous grasping of
opportunity might permit. This of course meant exposure.
Code, in reflecting upon the consequences of such an event, con-
cluded that they would be disastrous. H e was very fond of the Cran-
dons. H e feared that the climax seance, if carried through according
to schedule, would lead to a confrontation scene, in which Margery
would be denounced in some way by his colleagues. H e thought it
better to break the news to her more gently, and to avoid entirely the
possible conflict of a more or less open exposure. In addition, there
was the consideration, hinted at in his letter to me, that if she or
Crandon or both were brought to a full acceptance of the theories of
the Harvard group as to the causation of the phenomena, he feared
the emotional r esults which would then ensue ; he went so far as t o
speak of possible insanity or break-down of the family tics under this
stress. Just how this double psychological factor was to work out
if he did not interfere with the plans of his colleagues for the exposure,
he does not make anywher e clear; nor does he explain how the same
13 P art 101, Vol. XXXVI ; January, 1927 ; p. 414.
94 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
consequences were to be avoided in the slower and less dramatic expo-
sure, and conviction in their own minds, which he must have expected
would follow any steps that he might take to prevent the emergency of
the moment. VVe are told only that he felt the call to rush into the
breach and save the Crandons from the situation which threatened to
engulf them.
Likewise there is lacking any published history of the development,
in his own mind, of his theories as to the causation of the phenomena.
It is not stated anywhere that he had any serious doubts of the
phenomena prior to June 29th, and appar ently he had none. But
on June 30th he was in a position to talk fluently about his theory
exculpating the Crandons from any conscious fraud. The basic idea
is a rather elusive one; it p artakes of the nature of hypnosis but must
not be identified with hypnosis in the strict t echnical sense; it seems
to lie on middle ground somewhere between true hypnosis and mere
intense autosuggestion with complications. The upshot is that through
the motivation unintentionally supplied by Crandon's keen interest
and desire, and by other less definite and less respectable factors such
as Margery's enjoyment of the limelight, Margery herself is pictured
as going into this indet erminate stat e of amnesic suggestibility, wherein
her physical resources, sharpened as always under hypnosis, are utilized
for physical fraud without her concurrent knowledge or subsequent
memory. There would have to be a good deal of extra-seance prepara-
tion, and for this we are told that she lapses into the near-hypnotic
state at convenient moments during the day. There would have to
be release of her hand and other active confeder acy by Crandon, and
for this we are told that he too lapses into that state. There would
have to be extra-seance p reparation by him of the surgical specimens
used t eleplasmically; the theory passes over this entirely, save as it is
covered by the following fact: Individual members of the H arva rd
group were never in accord as to just how far we may picture t he two
Crandons as consciously and deliberately helping out a Walter who
came into existence, initially, in t he way indicated, as a semi-hypnotic
impersonation of the dead brother, and in whose r eality they have
faith. Indeed, it has not been demonstrated to me that any of them
save Code ever gave this hypothesis H, as it came to be called, more
than the most perfunctory adhesion.
Code insist s vehemently that he did not cook the theory up out
of whole cloth as a mere means of shielding the Crandons from more
infamous charges. At the time, he p rotest ed violently that he believed
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 95
it~ that it was the truth and the whole truth and nothing but the truth.
His conduct throughout the controversy, however, as well as during the
1926 discussions, public and private, arising out of Margery's war-
fare with her critics, makes it impossible for me to give credit to
this, and convinces me that H ypothesis H was a deliberat e and
cold-blooded fabrication, to save him from the p ain of charging con-
scious fraud against a lady whom he greatly admired. I do not believe
that he himself ever credited it, for a moment. And it is wholly clear
to me that he nowher e explains satisfactorily the ver y rapid genesis
of this hypothesis in his mind. W"hat he does tell us is that , moved
as explained above by the fear of the consequences of a sudden and
dramatic exposure and a self-conviction, he went to Lime Street in
the daytime of June 30th and had a longish interview with l\Iargery.
He described to her the events of the previous evening, and tried to
convince her that the phenomena had been produced by normal means.
He thinks he succeeded in this; he found her reactions strongly in
line with the idea that the trickery was unconscious and that she first
learned of it through his words. She was frightened and asked his
advice. He in turn was prepared to go to any length to prevent the
threatened disaster of dramatic exposure. He suggested that they
adjourn to the seance room so that he might consult vValter. He
t ells us that this was done ; that w·alter came through promptly; and
that, Margery being in trance and without knowledge of what was said,
arrangements were made for Code to serve as confederate in the
seance of that evening. He was to occupy the seat of control at the
Psychic's right; and he agreed to r elease her hand, to slide the luminous
band up to her elbow so the hand might be used, etc.
In the seance he executed this agreement. His colleagues were
baffied when their expect ations of a blank wer e defeat ed; but after the
medium had left the premises Code assembled them and expla ined to
them what he had done in the seance. He did not t ell them the story
of his private sitting; he pr esumably left t hem to infer that he had
acted entirely " on his own." That he had done the things during the
seance which he claimed to have done, their own observations of the
seance action plus their own newly found willingness to believe this
fraudulent forced them to believe. For his entire statement therefore
they took his word so far as the facts were concerned, and appar ently
r aised no question of the propriety or motivation of his conduct.
In their private conference, ·vvaltcr and Code had agreed that in
96 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
order not to "worry " Crandon, this conference would best be kept
secret from him. Code and Margery made the same agreement after
she emerged from trance. She accordingly expected Code to say
nothing about the visit to the seance room, confining any revelations
he might make to the conference with her in the living room and with-
holding any statement of the agreement alleged to have been reached.
She said nothing about it herself ; when Code was first quoted to her as
having told of it she denied it; since then, of course, she must continue
t o deny it. Code is thus able t o explain ver y plausibly the conflict, to
which we shall in due course come, between Margery and himself as to
what occurred on this day. I of course need not emphasize that the
preceding few paragraphs represent my abstract of Code's story, and
that I entertain the strongest reservations as to its correspondence
with the facts.
It is not necessary to read into the last remark any accusation of
direct and deliber at e lying on Code's part. All who were in the slight-
est degr_
ee on the inside of the situation as it existed in July, 1925,
knew that Code was a person of most unstable emotional make-up, and
that he- had the strongest specific emotional reactions toward the
Crandons and toward every angle of the case. It is a fact that he -
derives the keenest intellectual pleasure out of his ability as a contor-
tionist and amateur conjurer, out of his ability to r eproduce fake
psychical eifects, out of his position as an exposer of mediums in gen-
eral or in particular, and finally, like Houdini, out of his supposed
ability to expose any mediumship. W ith this quirk of Code's mental
make-up I had ample experience when I took him to Lily Dale with me
in August , 1925, on a general scouting tour to see whether any of the
mediums at that place were worthy of attention. Always his assump-
tion was that the phenomena of each case were fraudulent and that all
remaining for us to do was to learn how they worked.
A further fact known t o all his friends was that Code's personal
affairs at the time were in a t roubled st at e ; that his emotions were
being run ragged by these troubles; that he came often to Lime Street
seeking opportunity to discuss these troubles w-
ith Margery. His cor-
respondence of the period with the Crandons gives ever y suggestion
that his mental turmoil was eased by the advice which she gave him,
and equally by the abstract factor of the contact which he had with
her. She tells me that he more than once was reduced to tears in their
talks about what he was best t o do with himself. Certainly during the
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 97
two weeks in which I saw so much of him en route to and in Lily D ale,
he was quite unable to conceal the degree to which his emotional life
was being lived in L ime Street . One in particula r of his letters to
l\fargery gives a most extraordinary exhibit of the incoher ent babbling
of th ings better left unsaid. The document in question was a sort of
farewell effu sion, written after the denouement of the investigation and
after he had left Boston fo r his new p osition in D elaware, and hence
at a t ime when it seemed t hat ther e would be no further occasion for
contact or correspondence. At one st age in late October of 1925, when
both parties wer e firing broadsides at each other through the columns
of the Boston H erald, the Cr andons were so provoked by Code's part
in the needless publicity that they had serious thoughts of publishing
this document. Entirely as a matter of friendship, I wrote to him
advising him of this, and suggesting that if he felt any compunctiou
about having it appear in public he would do well to minimize his p art
in the published controversies. I suppose I should have been prepared
to have him interpret this in accordance with the following extract
from his British Proceedings article : " Mr. Bird warned me of the
a ttack that would be made upon me, outlined the attack, and advised
me tl1at the less I had to say the better."
Now I have no wish to persecute Code. But I must spread these
facts upon the r ecord, for the simple r eason that so very large a por-
tion of the H arvard case against Margery r ests up on his t estimony.
I have not the least doubt that Code's emotional st ate with reference
to the case was such as to make accurate reporting by him quite out
of the question. H e was in no state to attempt observations of any
d escription, or to remember what he had observed. Most certainly
he was in no st at e to gua rd against subconscious fabrication, or against
the zealous acceptance and championing of a story which he might
have t old in the first place under the impression that the end justifies
the means. Once we have r ealized the degree to which the case aga inst
Margery dep ends on Code's evidence ; the degree to which he was dis-
qualified from t estifying; and the degree to which anything he told
his colleagues at any time was at once, a utomatically and uncrit ically
accepted as necessarily valid, and made p art of their case and basis of
t heir further p rocedure·-once we r ealize all this, we must feel that the
gravest discr edit attaches to the whole structure.
I have gone into some of the specific fact s and charges in B. vs. H.,
and others have been threshed over in 111. H. V. I do not p ropose her e
98 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
to r eview the entire controversy; but into c~rtain aspects on which I
have material not heret ofore published I must go. T ake for instance
the matter of the anklets on June 29th. Evidently the prosecution
must allege that the anklet was deliberat ely removed, and that such
removal was habitual; evidently the defence must plead that it fell
off accidentally and that this accident was unique. The evidence-
even that adduced by the prosecution-is largely favorable to the
defence. For the Crandons tell us t hat the anklet fell off on this dat e
not through unaccountable eccentricity, but because it was differ ent
from and larger than the anklet s previously used. It was the custom
for the P sychic to bring with her to the H arvard seances the luminous
control bands which she had in her possession for routine use in Lime
Street. On the evening of June 29th, they t ell us, they brought these
bands as usual but they were not used. Instead, the record t estifies :14
The bands the P sychic wore had been made by the observers
and substituted for the bands which she had brought with her. She
had complained before the sitting that the ankle bands were too
loose, and had attempted to tighten them with safety pins. The
band's coming off during the sitting was thus made possible by
the carelessness of the observers.
To this the Crandons add that the bands thus substituted were
twelve inches in circumference, as against eight inches for her usual
ones. The attempt to tighten them was unsuccessful and was aban-
doned ; and to take up the superfluous length, the band, instead of
being put snugly on the ankle, was placed across from the instep t o
the heel of the slipper, with no adequate support or fastening. One
acquainted with trance restlessness would feel safe in predicting that
the bands would come off.
I met Code in N ew Yark on the evening of Sept ember 9th, as he
passed through the city en route to his new j ob in Newark, Del. VVc
discussed the claims which I have set down above, and he put for-
ward a counterclaim which I asked him to reduce to writing. As a
result, he wrote me on September 11th to t his effect:
I made all the anklets and wristlets used at H arvard with the
exception of those Margery brought with her. I measured them
by my own wrist s and ankles, not having Margery's handy at the
time. They stretched somewhat in use. At first Margery wore
11M. H. V ., p. 76.
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 99
her own, which were painted on one side onl y and were so dim
tha t we had difficulty keeping sight of them.1
" On one occasion,
'Shapley suggest ed on account of some phenomenon or other in the
region of the foot that Margery wear a pair of ours instead of
her own. On one occasion ViT
alter permitted us to put a bright
pair on her during a seance. It was customary to keep aU the
.anklets exposed to light for some time before the seance and until
they were needed. Then some one of us distributed them to the
sitters.16
At Emerson, I usually attended to this. At Hoagland's
house on the 29th of June Hoagland took Margery1 7
a pair of
·ours. There was no planting of large anklet s on Margery at any
time. The anklets were distributed at random from a common
heap. Margery found her pair too large on June 29th, and reduced
the size by pinning them with safety pins. Thus pinned, the
:anklets were precisely the size of her own, which were ten inches
in circumference, quite large enough to slip on and off at will.
There was no suggestion of this big anklet t alk until June 30th.
After the sitting of June 29th, in which the anklet had been re-
ported off, Margery specifically called attention to the fact that
they were so tight they cut into her ankles. This fact was verified
at the time by Crandon, who removed the right anklet , and by
Day, who removed the left. You must remember that at this sit-
ting ' iValter had denied the anklet was off. At the sitting of June
.30th W alter admitted the anklet was off, and covered himself by
saying it was too big and had fallen off. This is the origin of
the big anklet story, and it is nonsense. Marger y never wore
anklet s big enough to fall off. Any elastic anklet big enough to
wear is big enough to taJ,:e off.
I have pointed oues that on their own showing of fact it took
these young men six successful seances plus an accident to discover
that a luminous garter can be removed from a lady's bare ankle if it
is not in some way attached to the skin-or to a stocking. I now
point out that Code's excess of enthusiasm for his story runs away
with him. In the first place, if the garters, as pinned to take up the
slack, were the same size as her own, they would not have cut into her
ankles; so one of these stat ements is false. F urther, a garter tight
15 The seance records benr this out·, so far as regards t he matter of poor visibil ·
ity.-J. M. B .
16 I n this connection, us well as in the lig ht of the remark, a little earlier, about
all the anklets used at Harvnnl, it should be poi11tecl out that th e custom was for
all sitters t o wear t he luminous confTols.-J·. M. B .
-' 'I.e., took upsf·n il's f·o hel' dressh1 g J'OO nt ,- J. l\L B .
l S B . vs. H ., p. 726.
100 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
enough to cut into the ankle I do not believe can be syst ematically
removed by the use of the toes of the other foot alone, without sufficient
noise and commotion to attract even the sluggish attention of such
investigators as the first remark of this paragraph shows these to be.
Getting it back on again would involve an easier problem, since here
the toes may get under and around it while it hangs loosely on the foot.
But to get it off, the toes must to some degree get under it as it sits
upon the ankle, so tightly as to cut in. And they must do this with -
out too much of noise or of synchronous movement of the two feet ;
for the fint garter must be removed by a foot which canies its
luminous control. Finally, Code's insist ence that the garters were
entirely proper and that the whole story of loose garters is a baseless
fabri cation suffers heavily in the face of the recorded statement that
the P sychic " had {bttem,pted t o tighten them with safety pins," plus
the recorded admission that " the band's coming off was made possible
by the carelessness of the observers." And when Code admits that the
garters had to be tightened but still claims that the big anklet story
is absolute fiction, to some degree he directly contradicts himself. No:
the whole body of evidence suffer s too much from the evident desire t o
make out a case.
I do not think that my favorable opinion upon the mediumship
blinds me to the weight of evidence pro and con. It seems to me that,
weighing all the factors here adduced, there is no valid evidence that
the ankles were out of control other than through accident ; and that
the story told by the defence is in every respect as inherently plausibl e
and as much in consonance with the records, as is that of the p rosecu-
tion. And since the whole argument could so easily have been eliminat ed
before it started by using stockings or plast er , the investigators ought
to some extent to be bound by t he results of their own stupidity: If
they reported the phenomena valid, we should be entitled to throw them
out on the ground of their bad cont rol; must we not refuse to recog-
nize their plea of fraud based up on that same bad control, and remind
them that on their own showing all they can t estify is, that they do not
know what happened in their presence?
The only other point in Code's story which we need consider in any
detail is his pictt~re of his " privat e seance" with vValter, at which the
plot was hatched for his confederacy on the evening of June 30th. It
will of course be appreciat ed that this sitting was supposed either to
turn out a blank, or to give action fundamentally differe11t from that
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 101
of its predecessors. It did neither of these things; it gave admirable
action, of approximately the usual sort.18
a The other members of the
group were very much at a loss to explain this in their own minds, until
Code got them together after the seance and confessed that he had
created the phenomena. He did not t ell them of his conference with
YValter, but let it be supposed that he had acted wholly on his own
initiative. But in the ensuing week he told at least one of them pri-
vately about it, and by the time the r eport was r eady for publication
in the Atlantic they all knew of the claim in a general way.
I am not able to determine to what degree Code has told a single
consistent story from the very beginning, and to what degr ee his story
has been modified as he went along. In his British article, he gives
what purports to be a contemporaneous documentary r ecord, but one
that is not at all impressive when analyzed internally. In this record ~
for instance, there occurs a deal of conversation between Code and
Walter. \iValter is r epresented as calling Code " Old Chap "; as
using the words " awfully decent" in characterization of Code's con-
duct; as saying " Cheery-o " in farewell; and as speaking generally
like an English schoolboy. Nobody who has ever once sat in Lime
Street can possibly accept this as remotely parallel to Walter's man-
ner, and any such p erson must wonder whether the r ecord is not
5tamped on its face as apocryphal by these words which it seeks to put
ia vValter's mouth- whether these words are not explained by Code's.
knowledge that he was writing for an English audience.
Equally damning to the authenticity of this record is the picture
which it gives of Walter's char act er. One who has seen and heard
VValter's vigorous dealing with all the emergencies that have confronted
him since the" Piece of String" adventure 10
of N ovember, 1923, finds.
it utterly beyond credit to have him pictured as meeting this emergency
with a whining, reiterated, " What are we going to do? " \iValter solves
his own problems, he doesn't bring them to his sitters for solution; and
if he is baffled he says so in a str aightforward fashion possessing no
common factor with the exhibit which Code tries to give us. If vValter
(a spirit, a prosopopesis, even a fake if you insist; I speak merely of
the seance-room Walter as I have met him, without reference to what
he r eally is) tried to assume the attitude in which Code puts him, he
couldn't do it. One might as well r epresent Mr. Wilson begging his
19M. M., Chapter XVI.
18a See open reference No. 33, Vol. 2, for comment by Hoagland on this and:
other points.
102 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Cabinet for advice in a trying situation, or Mr. Ford torn in his mind
over the advisability of spending a million dollars for a machine that
would save ten dollars and six minutes in the manufacture of every
car. No : this story, so long withheld and so patly produced, is
dearly apocryphal.
Finally, we come to a specific denial of Code's story, by a witness.
It has been hinted previously that when Code called at 10 Lime Street
on the afternoon of June 30, Hl25, he thought he was alone in the
house with Margery but thought this mistakenly. As soon as the
Crandons were aware of the nature of Code's story, Margery herself
went through the formalities of recording her denial in due form; and
at the same time they interviewed the witness of whom I speak, and got
a signed statement from her. Getting both parties concerned befo re
.a notary was a matter of considerable difficulty and some procrastina-
tion. I doubt that this culminating step would ever have been reached
had it not been for the stimulus provided through the publication in
the British Proceedings of January, 1927. In the interval between
November, 1925, and June, 1927, I ought to say, through misunder-
standing by the Crandons with regard to the precise nature of an
affidavit or through some looseness in the use of terms, the mere signed
statement was sometimes spoken of by them as an affidavit, and knowl-
·edge of its existence became fairly general under that mistaken desig-
nation. Both affidavits in question follow:
Boston, Mass., November 24, 1925.
This is to certify that June 30, 1925, about noon, Mr. Grant
H. Code came to call on me at my house at 10 Lime Street. At
that time he was an Assistant in English at Harvard College and
was a member of a group of young Harvard instructors who were
having sittings at Harvard College with me.
He was admitted to the house by Mrs. Lizzie Waters and made
his way up one flight, where I met him in what we call the book
room. J'l1rs. Waters is what is called an accommodator, and occa-
sionally comes to help in my domestic work.
He came to discuss the episodes of the sitting which had taken
place the previous night, and incidentally to talk over his personal
affairs, as a man might discuss them with his mother or sister. He
stayed about twenty minutes and did not leave the book-room,
brightly lighted with sunshine, until he left it to go out of the house.
There was no " sitting." There was no trance. '\iVe did not
go to the seance room.
MrNA S. CRANDON. '
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 103
CoM M ONWEALTH OF M ASSAC HUSETTS
Suffolk, ss.: Boston, June 3, 1927.
Then personally appeared the above named Mina S. Cran-
don and made oath that the foregoing st at ement by her
subscribed is true.
Before me,
WENDELL P. MuRRAY,
Notary Public
My commission expires Dec. 13, 1929.
A F FIDAVIT OF MRs. L u cY K. W A T E RS
I, Lucy K. W aters, residing at 55 Hopedale Street, Allston,
Massachusetts, hereby certify upon oath that in June of 1925, I
was employed by Mrs. Le Roi G. Crandon, of 10 Lime Street,
Boston, doing sewing work; that in the latter part of that month,
in response to a ring at the front door, I admitted a gentleman
who stated his name was Mr. Code, and that he desired to see
Mrs. Crandon.
My attention was directed to his appearance because he wore
no hat, and his socks were loose and hanging over the sneakers
which he wore. I recall that his coat and trousers were not of
the same color.
I went up the front stairs and spoke to Mrs. Crandon, who
asked me to have the gentleman come up to the book room on the
second floor, and he did come up the front stairs to that room,
and I immediat ely went up the back st airs to a room on the same
floor, where I took up some sewing. There are no doors between
the room in which I was sitting, sewing, and the book room, and
I was able to hear without difficulty the voices of the gentleman
a nd Mrs. Crandon in conversation, but I did not overhear any
of the words, but :Mr. Code seemed to be very nervous and worried
about something for I could hear him walking up and down, and
his voice s_ounded as though he was sobbing a little.
H e remained in that room about t wenty minutes, and then went
down the front st airs with Mrs. Crandon, and left the house.
Neither he nor she left t he book room at any t ime while he was
there except when he was going out.
No one went upst airs to any room higher than the book room.
\iVhen Mrs. Crandon went down the front stairs with the gentle-
man, I went down the back stairs t o the kitchen, for luncheon, and
within a moment or two lV
Irs. Crandon came down to the kitchen,
a nd we all had luncheon together.
104 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
I have previously given a statement of this matter to Dr. Cran-
don, about six or eight months ago, and I have also told Mr. Bligh
Bond all of the facts which are stated above.
LucY K. WATERS.
CoMMONWEALTH oF :MAssACHUSETTs
Suffolk, ss.: Boston, June 3, 1927.
Then personally appeared the above named Lucy K.
Waters, and made oath that the statements contained in the
foregoing affidavit by her subscribed are true.
Before me,
WENDELL P. MuRRAY,
Notary Public
l\i[y commission expires Dec. 13, 1929.
Now the above affidavits have their weak points and their incon-
sistencies, but I think! all these are explicable on natural grounds and
that they weaken the case for the defence little, if any. We shall have
to conclude, for instance, that the sewing lady knows her own name
better than Margery knows it. That Mrs. VVaters does not attempt
to fix the precise date of an eighteen-months-old observation is to her
credit rather than to her discredit. As regards the obvious plea that
the day of which she speaks is some other day on which Code came to
the house, it is true that he came often; but I believe he will not deny
that Mrs. Waters admitted him on June 30th, and that this was unusual
if not unique. And if these affidavit s be attacked on the ground of
the long period elapsing between the date of which they speak and that
on which they are drawn, I can only point out that Margery can
hardly meet an accusation until it has been made, and that if she is
telling the truth about the events of June 30th, she could not know of
this accusation until she read of it in the Boston H e1·ald or it was
reported to her by some one having an earlier knowledge. of it.
In point of fact Code claims credit for having told his story to his
friends during the summer of 1925, and claims that what he finally
published in 1927 is the same story. I will testify that the story of
the above affidavits is the one which Margery has always told, from
the moment when I first had knowledge of Code's claims about the
private conference between himself and Walter; and I will point out
that she is on no worse ground, as regards delay in getting it into a
public document, than is Code.
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 105
If we are to reject the story that Code tells, we must have some
sensible theory that will comport with the known and undisputed facts.
Such a theory is not difficult of construction. Margery's own story
of the interview of the afternoon of June 30th affords the only clue
we require. She says that Code told her of the events of the previous
seance; that he told her their belief as to the physical facts of the
seance; and that he unfolded Hypothesis H to her in explanation of
her share in these facts. He then explained that Crandon would
undoubtedly go insane if he came to know all this; and proposed his
own confederacy during the coming seance. It was in connection with
this proposal that Margery said: "You frighten me." She turned
it down emphatically, putting the refusal on the ground which she
thought most likely to appeal to Code: that he would stand an excel-
lent chance of detection, and that this would ruin him. After satisfy-
ing himself that the refusal was final he left. Even if one were willing
to infer that she might go into trance and emerge again without knowl-
edge that she had been " out," this supposition would be barred by
the necessity for her going, consciously, with Code to the upper floor.
This story checks exactly with Code's, so far as it goes, and sug-
gests that so far Code is telling the truth. If we then picture Code
at the evening's sitting, still in the grip of his determination to prevent
the dramatic exposure, we shall find him in control of the entranced
Psychi·c and in a position to produce phenomena, to move her luminous
control, etc., etc., to his heart's content, with neither her nor anybody
else to say him nay. We cannot, therefore, deny his claim to a share
in the phenomena o£ the evening; we can merely deny that he co-
operated with ~T alter's or Margery's consent. He could do anything
save drop her hand completely-the galvanometer control was in
effect to prevent this. He might even shift the luminous control and
his own point of contact with her arm, and then i?nagine that the
phenomena were produced by the hand which he had thus rendered
free and had thus put out of his immediate control. In point of fact,
Shapley during this sitting of June 30th made certain observations,
of which he drew up an independent and contemporaneous memoran-
dum, in com.
plete ignorance of Code's claims. This memorandum he
left on his desk on sailing for Europe and it was found by his secretary
and placed at the disposal of Code and his colleagues. W'hile appar-
ently not demanding the hypothesis that the medium's hand was free
to the extent which the Harvard group would like to believe, this
d~cument is entirely consistent with such hypothesis.
106 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
So much for the bare facts of Code's behavior. Let us now exam-
ine the rationale of his conduct as he describes it to us. \Vas it a
course of action likely to lead to the ends at which he tells us it was
pointed? \Vas it a course which a rational person, free from emo-
tional disqualifications, would have followed in pursuit of those ends?
That it was not, appears inescapably from the very first moment when
consideration began to be given the question of what the Harvard
group were to do with their findings. From this moment, Code was
in an impossible position. He himself tells us, in his British Proceed-
ings paper:
.I could not bring myself to believe that an account of these·
tricks was an adequate explanation of the entire mediumship. In
fact, it seemed to me that an account of these tricks published
without a study of the subjective phenomena and of the human
relations behind them would give, not a true but a false idea both
of the mediumship and of the persons involved in it. Yet, as a
member of an investigation committee, I had been limited to a study
of the physical phenomena. Upon these phenomena only could
I make a public report. The evidence which I could give that bore
on the subjective phenomena and on the human side of the medium-
ship I felt that I had obtained in confidence and could not publish.
Therefore I gave my complete view of the case to the Crandons
and to my fellow investigators20
and opposed as far as I was able
publicity of any kind.
This seems a very polite and conservative way of saying that Code
was between the devil and the deep blue sea. He couldn't permit his
evidence to be published and he couldn't permit it to be withheld. That
this dilemma would arise should have been evident from the first. Was
it reasonable to suppose that a dozen or so excellent university men,
having made a research of this degree of interest and importance, were
going unanimously to agree not to publish anything about it? Such
supposition was the height of idiocy. Of course one could hardly have
predicted that one of them would go to the length of publishing it in
a popular magazine in highly garbled form and of encouraging lurid
newspaper stories based upon this publication; but this unexpectedness
of denouement is a matter of degree only and not one of kind.
Code's procedure as he paints it was therefore one certain to
20 Not qui te true, of course; there were numm·ous things which he concealed
from one of the Cr:mc1ons, and for a. time at least from his coTiea,gues.- J. M. B.
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 107
involve him in precisely the dilemma in which he now found himself.
Moreover, it was a procedure that could not possibly lead to the result
which he was seeking. H e admits this tacitly on the spot, by telling
his colleagues that very evening what he had done ; thereby reconsti-
tuting the emergency which he has just now relieved. It must have
been evident to the muddiest intellect that Code's course could not
possibly do more than postpone the crisis which he feared; and that in
the postponement it would be made all the worse. So Code's whole
conduct, if we accept his story, was idiotic and without effective motive.
There are numerous other grounds on which one must take excep-
tion to this story. For one thing, in conversation with me throughout
the summer of 1925, he was always very emphatic in his endorsement
of my objections to the e:v post f(£Cto procedure of mediumistic investi-
gation. This had been practiced upon Margery first by Houdini and
later by McDougall, and conversation between Code and me on the
subject was therefore not without plenty of illuminating mater'ial to
serve as text. That you cannot collect the sitters after the medium
is gone, and explain to them that she did thus and so, that the phenom-
ena were produced by a fraud of which you were aware during the
seance and which you could have prevented, but which you elected
neither to prevent nor to record, is fully known to Code. Why, then,
should we believe that at the first convenient opportunity he adopted
this procedure as his own?
Again: Margery has been through the stress of exposure before.
She kept her head admirably during the Houdini mess. If we read
Dingwall's report with our attentio"n centered upon the hypothesis
of fraud, we shall find21
an incident where, on this hypothesis, Dingwall
had made a vastly more critical observation than anything Code ever
claimed to have made. This record shows us the tcleplasmic mass,
which for the purposes of the present argument we assume to have
been produced fraudulently from within the Psychic's body, lying
inert upon her thigh. It must be got upon the table, and since Crandon
is not in his accustomed place at the medium's right, she cannot free a
hand for use in this service. She must therefore seize it with one of
her hands held by one of the investigators, and thus held she must toss
it upon the table. Its position is unfortunately such that the effort
to reach it with her right hand, under Worcester's control, is out of
the question; accordingly she must employ the left, held by Dingwall.
21 Proceedings, S.P.R.; Part 98, Vol. XXXVI; June, 19216; p. 133.
108 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
H e tells me in conversation that by his announcement or by some other
element of his behavior- ! am not now positive which and am not
now able to consult him--it must have been made evident to a fraudu-
lent operator that he was fully conscious of the movement of the left
hand and the possible significance of this. The incident therefore is
altogether as critical as any situation that ever existed in the presence
of the H arvard group collectively or of Code individually. Moreover,
both personally and in virtue of his official connection Dingwall was
a fa r more formidable figure than Code ; and if Margery is going to
break down and lose her nerve and weep on the methaphorical shoulder
of her exposer, it will surely be in Dingwall's presence rather than in
Code's. But she didn't ! T he most ext reme advocate of the hypothesis
of fraud will find that she never lost command of the situation with
Dingwall for mie split second, in the face of the most damning observa-
t ions which such advocat e could possibly conceive. After this, when
Code· asks us to believe that his elucidation to her of his wild and
woolly hypothesis would break her ·down and strike panic in her heart
to the point where she would as good as confess everything and malce
him an accomplice-we]], he asks too much.
I think we may leave Code here, with the verdict that his story is
<JUite incredible, and that it is not at all necessar y to an understanding
of what occmred on the t wo last days of the Harvard investigation.
He will crop up once more, in Chapter X I , where we shall encounter
another spasm of his extraordinary conduct, and one which may aid
us in making a choice between idiocy and rascality as his mainspring.
For the balance of the present chapt er we need only consider one or
t wo further aspect s of the Harvard sittings which have not been wholly
thrashed out in print. One of these relat es to the claim of internal
concealment of the wide variet y of teleplasms produced during the
seances. On at least two occasjons, 1\1argery was wearing sanitary
napkins, indicating a condition which would make such concealment
a physiolog ical impossibility. In the text of the records there is no
reservation from .Dr. Fawcett about the r eality of the menstrual con-
dition; but ther e exist ere zJost f'acto stat ements by her , made at the
time of newspap er controversy in October, and conveying the implied
charge that the presence of the bandages was a blind, and that there
was no evidence of their necessity. L ater, in response to privat e
inquiry by Hyslop, on my behalf and admittedly for citation in this
volume, she made a stateme11t of similar content; but one which was
ambiguous and incomplet e, and one whose ambiguity and incomplete-
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE
MARGERY
HAR.VARD
VERITAS
A STUDY
in PSYCHICS
MARK W. RICHARDSON, A.B., 1889; M.D., 1894, Har·va>·d.
CaAnr.F.s S. HILL, A.B., 1892, W esleyan ; Harvard L.S. 1895-7
ALFRED W . .M ARTIN, 1882, .ilfcGill; S.T.B., 18S;;; A.M., 1886, H arvard.
S. RALPH H ARLOW, A.B., 1908, Harvard; A.M., 1919, Columbia.
JOREPH Dr~'VYC l<OFF, Law yer.
L. R. G. CRANDON, A,B., 1894 ; M.D.. 18n8 ; A.M., 1909, Harvard. F .A.C.S.
BLANCHARD PRINTING CO.
BOSTON
1925
The title page of an ''anonymous ' ' pamphlet; see p. 110.
109
llO THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ness were only cleared up after specific and leading questions had been
put to her. The Crandons of course alleged at the time and have
maintained ever since that the condition indicated by these napkins
was present. It is not wholly impertinent to remark that Dr. Fawcett
is an old friend of Damon's parents.
When I attended one of the Harvard seances, on June 22nd, the
Psychic wore a pair of Mrs. Hoagland's bloomers, sealed above and
. below in such a way as to make impossible their undetected removal.
This of course is a deliberately applied control for the prevention of
anatomical concealment, and is of much more value than the fortuitous
control afforded by the presence of catamenia. It was perhaps the
most important single means of control used at this seance. Yet no
mention was made of it in the record by the investigators, and had it
not been for Walter's own humorous reference to the Psychic's " cast-
iron breeches " it would not have got into the document at all.
It is incidents like this that lend some degree of color to Crandon's
insistence that the whole Harvard exposure represents a deliberate
attempt to discredit the mediumship, arising out of an anti-psychical
prejudice in administrative circles at Harvard and gaining force as it
was handed down through McDougall 23
to the young men working
under his direction or influence. I have avoided this allegation of bad
faith in the present text; but it is accepted by so many people that the
story would be incomplete without at least a passing reference to it.
There remain one or two points to be mentioned, in which the
111. H . V. pamphlet has been attacked by the Harvard group and their
sympathizers. For this purpose we must cite an article by Prince,
under the title "A Review of the :Margery Case," which appeared 24
in more or less direct response to the pamphlet. In some respects it
is merely amusing, as when it cites the pamphlet as "Anonymous." I
reproduce the 111. H. V. title-page and invite my readers to judge how
microscopic a search for the names of the authors has been prosecuted
by Prince. I suppose he would rest his case on the absence of the little
word "by." But surely there is no ambiguity about the authorship
and responsibility; and any effort to make it appear that there is
smacks strongly of sheer animus.
The most serious charge brought against the pamphlet is that
instead of republishing the Harvard seance notes in their original
23 .See Chapter II.
24 Am,. Jottll'. P sychology; July, 1926; XXXVII, p. 431.
•
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 111
form, as it claims to do, it makes important additions and subtractions.
Under the former head we are told: "A paragraph of 108 words on
page 182, declaring that in ' our minds ' is 'no doubt that this
mediumship is one of the most important ever recorded,' masquerades
as part of the seance notes." If this is not a deliberate misstatement,
· it constitutes at least a very stupid attempt at critical distortion.
The facts are these:
The seance notes are given, in what amounts to one chapter of the
pamphlet. This chapter starts with an extensive discussion by the
pamphlet authors; they finally come to the point where they say, in
effect: " the full seance notes follow "; these are given; and the authors
are then at liberty to continue their own text until they regard it as
complete. I know no precedent for the claim that we must begin a
new chapter after every extensive quotation.
The typographical arrangement is an unfortunate one. But this
is due wholly to a too slavish following of the typed seance records
delivered to Crandon by the Harvard group. These were not uniform
in arrangement and heading; and they contained subheads which occu-
pied a more prominent position and were in larger type than the major
headings. Some of the records had no heading at all. This ill-
arranged mass of material was sent to the printer with strict insb·uc-
tions to follow copy; and he followed it " out the window," in compos-
ing-room jargon. When he got to the ultimate end of the seance
records, which technically constitute a 44-page quotation from which
quotation marks were wisely omitted, he inserted a rule and went on
with the authors' text. That the records are so badly arranged typo-
graphically as to .make the latter portion of them look like an inde-
pendent chapter from Harvard, is not the fault of the pamphlet
authors. That, having completed their quotation of the records, they
had only 108 words more to say, is perhaps unfortunate; but one
would hardly demand that they go on after they were through merely
to satisfy Prince's sense of typographical propri~ty. If the arrange-
ment provokes the reader to wonder about the authorship of the para-
graph in question, he will find in it amongst other things a statement
that "those in charge of the mediumship gladly offer opportunity " to
all proper observers t see it. If he does not then find it perfectly
clear that this paragraph is by the authors of the pamphlet, I am
indeed sorry for him. Had I been editing this volume, as Prince at
one point insinuates to have been the case, I should have arranged this
paragraph in a way that would have left even him with no excuse for a
112 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
d eliberate misunderstanding of its origin; but I should have realized
that in so doing I was practicing the niceties of editorship, to which
one not by training and instinct an editor cannot rationally be held.
There is no addition to the record here, and no sensible reader can
imagine tha.t "LDere is; nor can I imagine that Prince honestly thought
there was. What he was criticizing was the arrangement merely, and
he would Iiave been more honest to say so. ·
The facts about the alleged subtraction are of different order. On
this ground, Prince says:
Although various addenda of the earlier and uncertain stage of
proce~dings are properly printed, including one written twelve days
after the sitting, Hoagland's addendum of 210 words relating to
his discovery of the leg, made 2
" during the sitting and announced
later the same evening/ 6
is entirely expunged, although regularly
incorporated with the official notes and typed on the same page
with the matter [included in M. H. V.]. Also the final 41fz pages
of June 30th, partly composed of dictaphone notes of the same
evening and partly of addenda supplied by members of the group,
[the ellipsis covers extended description of the content of
these addenda], are completely obliterated.
It is difficult to regard these charges as other than maliciously dis-
torted. TheM. H. V. pamphlet makes no claim to complete presenta-
tion of anything other than the seance notes. Crandon was a sitter;
and I think it will not be seriously maintained that seance notes can
be continued after his departure. Anything resulting from such con-
tinuation is plainly an addendum, by the sitters who choose to make it.
The M. H. V. authors have faithfully published everything which the
Harvard group daurl to dictate in Crandon's presence. Anything
dictated or written in his absence, and which on submission to him he
found acceptable, was granted the privilege of admission which it could
11ot properly demand; and all such matter is distinguished, for the
reader's eye, from the seance records proper. Anything dictated or
written in Crandon's absence and which he does not accept enjoys no
privileges whatever; Crandon and his co-authors are entirely within
2u The discove-ry, not the adcVendwrn. Application to Prince's text of his own
ridiculous standards would easily lead to the charge that he was here seeking to
make it a.ppear that the addendum had -been dictated during the seance.-J. M. B.
2G To his colleagues, after the cleparture of the Crandons. Here, I cease playing
with the ic1ea of censure, anc1 actually censm e Prince for withholding mention of
the ex post facto element invoh·ec1.-J. M. B.
THE CODE-HOAGLAND EPISODE 113
their rights in refusing the leave to print to such material. It is not
part of the record; it is part of the scheme of interpretation agreed
:upon by certain sitters and rejected by others. W"hy should these
·others be asked to print it? If any further emphasis on its ea: post
facto character were required, I need only cite the occurrence, in the
document which Prince demands be printed as part of the June 30th
record, of remarks by \iVolbach and Day, who were not even present
on that date! McDougall's notion that he is privileged to make any
sort of ex post facto observation he chooses is bad enough; but it pales
into nothingness beside this quaint demand that Crandon be bound in
his publication of the case by such ex post facto elements originating
outside the 1·esponsible membe1·ship of the investigating group!
L et me repeat: the seance records are complete and correct in
M. H. V., barring the slight expurgations and the alteration through-
out from " Crandon " to " FH," 27
to which Prince admits he doesn't
really object. But when the other sitters attempt to incorporate
riders upon the seance records, Crandon and his colleagues reserve the
privilege of saying whether these may be admitted as representing the
sense of all the sitters, or excluded as coming only from one element
thereof. If the Harvard investigators don't like that method of publi-
cation, they are respectfully advised to publish their own records at
their own expense. They may then incorporate as much extraneous
matter of their own as they will, and exclude as much of Crandon's
comment as seems to them damaging to their case.
27 To gain uniformity with the style of M. M ., and to avoid all suggestion that
Crandon was capitalizing the case.-J. M. B.
CHAPTER X
The Bell-Boxes of Early 1925
By the Editor
One of the devices that has been longest and most freely used as a
seance room tool for \iValter's manipulation involves one or another
application of the general idea of the closing, by his telekinetic agency,.
c.f an electric switch; which of course is followed by the lighting of a
lamp or the ringing of a bell or the functioning in any predetermined
way of the circuit in which the said switch is wired. This procedure
is in fact such an integral part of the case that an exception must be
made to our general rule of not summarizing in this volume the work
done in 1923-24 and chronicled in my previous book. ·w e must have
here an outline of the early developments in this department of the
phenomena, in order to examine under st andingly the sequence of
lfl25-26 events. Further, we have now come to a place where the
si"ory of the bell-boxes constitutes a vital element in the history of the
Harvard exposure. \iVe must therefore at this point interrupt the
latter long enough to enable us to set down the former.
The idea was Comstock's originally, and in its original form
involved the use of a telegraph instrument. This was wired into a bell
circuit, so that the bell could be rung by closing either the key or the
switch of the t elegraph. At about t his time, however, there arose a
scheme of seance philosophy which pictured \Valter as much better able
to work upon objects that offered a high ratio of surface to volume,
or to weight, or to force required for their operation. In response to
this idea, I designed and constructed a contact mechanism consisting
of two eight-inch-square boards, hinged together along one edge of each
and held apart in the shape of a V by a spring. At corresponding
points on their inner surfaces were fastened metal contacts. If the
boards were pressed together against the resist ance of the spring, the
V would close until these pieces of metal touched; and when wired into
an electrical circuit of any sort, the device then constituted a switch.
Moreover, it was a switch which was particularly designed for facility
of operation by W alter, under the scheme of philosophy which I have
.iust outlined.
114
T HE BE LL-BOXES OF E AR LY 1925 115
This contact appar atus was originally a separat e unit, which could
be wired into any t ype o£ cir cuit. During July; 1924, a fixed routine
was established of using it with a bell. The next logical step came
with the creation of a permanent housing, in a locked wooden box, for
the bell with its batteries ; and as a matter of further convenience, the
contact device was then firmly fastened to the top of this box. The
wires issued from holes in the sides of the box and ran to the contact
plat es ; barring such p ortions of t heir lengths as were thus exposed,
all the electrical portions of the ensemble were inside the box and
inaccessible to fraud.
A det ailed account will be found in M .M. of the conditions under
which this apparatus was used in the seances, and of whatever of climax
of demonstration it achieved. At first it r ang only in darkness, but
with all sitters save one excluded from the room, and with conditions
<>f hand and foot control of the medium which wrung from Carrington
a definite verdict of validity. L ater there was initiated a slow process
<>f working toward ringing in the light. The bell, at a t ypical seance
<>f late 1924, would first ring, freely and spontaneously, as it stood on
the table in the darkness; with Crandon sometimes wholly responsible
for hand control of the. P sychic and sometimes other sitters sharing
this with him, but with no valid safeguard against confederacy from
other quarters, and usually with none against the use of head or foot
by the Psychic her self. Then the bell would ring on the t able in an
interval of red light, during which great freedom of exploration was
permitted the sitters, in search of an external connection. It would
next ring on the t able in red light in response to requests from the
sitters, who would be instructed to ask for arbitrar y combinations of
long and short peals. Finally, it would ring spontaneously, while being
carried about the room by various sitters, to extreme dist ances from
:Margery running as high as twelve feet. All these items were brought
to a point where they wer e obtained in a single seance, successively and
practically on demand ; and the closest examination of the box, inter-
nally, before the seance, was permitted any sitter. But ringing at
command ZCJhile t he bo:c zCJas ofi' the t able cmcl in the hands of a sitte1
·
W alter pictured as adding severe difficulties to those which he had to
meet in the other acts ; so, while he ver y occasionally gave this extreme
<>f performance, it did not become part of the routine.
The spring originally installed to keep the contact boards separated
was a spiral one. T he boards were kept from opening beyond a certain
116 THE MARGERY .MEDIUMSHI.P
distance by a strip of cloth tacked across one of the open sides of the
V; and slight depressions in the inner surface of each board received
the ends of the spring. Thus the spring held the boards apart; and
the boards, under constriction by the cloth strip, in turn held the
spring in place. McDougall, in the course of his exposure to the bell-
rmgmg in October and November, 1924, conceived the idea that the
Flapper or Co11tact: Board.
Box co11ta/m';:j 8~11
and8atter/e.s
Diagrammatic Sketch of Scientific American· Bell-box
presence of the cloth strip might in some way add to the possibilities
of fraud. To permit its elimination, a strip spring was substituted,
fastened to the lower contact board and bearing against the upper one,
as diagrammed. This eliminated all t endency for the top contact to
fly over backward, the normal position of the spring holding it nicely,
an inch or so out of contact position. At about the same time, the
contacts were redesigned and improved, so that there might be no
element of unc·ertainty to the eye, whether contact existed or not.
The diagram makes this, too, clear. The changes produced no notice-
able effect upon the seance action; ringing of the bell proceeded in just
the way it had been proceeding, and the progress toward more brilliant
performances under more brilliant conditions conti.nued without notice-
able acceleration or deceleration.
The bell-box was not used during Dingwall's sittings, except that
in the very informal seance of December 30th, 1924, it gave its usual
performance, concluding with ringing while he held it aloft and turned
with it in his hands. He had no suggestions to offer as to how the
THE BELL-BOXES OF EARLY 1925 117
thing might be done fraudulently. But he took a violent dislike to the
apparatus, shaking his head again and again and exclaiming that it
was "most unfortunate" that it had ever been brought into existence.
So far as I could ever get anything out of him on this head, his objec-
tions were based upon the fact that, when the bell rang, he wanted to
know exactly what had happened; and he did not see how he was to
decide whether the contact board had been depr essed, or the current
carried across the gap between the contact s on a psychic bridge of some
sort, or the ringing produced by some manner of psycho-electrical trick
inside the box, or even by a purely telekinetic manipulation of the bell-
clapper inside the box. I thought that to some degree he exaggerated
this difficulty; he is the only critic who so far as I know feels any doubt
that" the contact board is depressed when the bell rings. And if his
criticism were valid, it might be met with the rejoinder that a deter-
mination of how W alter rang the bell was exactly what was not in mind
when this apparatus was designed; all that was contemplat ed was a
rigorous exclusion of fraud. In this respect the electrical bell-box
is superior to a purely mechanical one, since it permits long continuous
periods of ringing during which various t ests or examinations can be
carried on; while any mechanical substitute evolved by Dingwall or
any other. person limits us to instantaneous and isolated blows on the
bell with something acting like a hammer. It is strongly suggested
that his true animus against the bell-box arose out of the fact that it
was designed by the Scientific American Committee, of which he has
never been able sufficiently to express his contempt.
Dingwall, however, faced the necessity of providing Walter with
" toys " of one sort or another for telekinetic and t eleplastic manipu-
lation during his seances; and as one of these he designed a mechanical
bell-box. An ordinary clapperless gong was enclosed in a box, in the
upper side of which there was a small hole. Through this hole there
protruded a stick of wood, which was held away from the bell by a
spring. If struck a smart blow, however, the stick would descend
against the bell, ring it sharply once, and rebound under the spring's
recoil to its normal position. Attached to the upper end of this
striker was a horizontal plate some five inches square; and this was
marked with luminous paint so that when Walter used the apparatus,
there might be seen a silhouette of his terminal with which he did the·
striking. This device, which is diagrammed, was used more or less
freely in Dingwall's seances; and when he left, it remained in Lime
118 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Street, and was used in subsequent seances. The same applies to the
electrical bell-box of Scientific American model, which is still in use,
with the addition of a spot of luminous paint on its contact board so
that this may sometimes be seen to move in the dark. In future discus-
sion and description, we may refer to these two pieces of apparatus as
the DB and the SAB.
After Dingwall's departure, the SAB was restored to its position of
prominence in the routine of the sittings. Like the miscellaneous tele-
Spir<Jl Sp_ring
holding J.llunger
away from Spring
Bell
The Major Features of the Dingwall Principle for
MecbaJlical Bell-box Construction
kinesis of Chapter VI, the performance given with it was so standard-
ized, along the lines of the summary of several paragraphs above, that
we need give no detailed account of its operation save when this involves
something of novel character or outstanding demonstrability. An
instance of this novelty is seen immediately, in the record for February
15th, 1925:
He then did a new stunt. In red light he pushed down the cover
of the SAB to a full excursion of an inch and a half, very slowly,
until the bell finally rang. Then with equal slowness he allowed it
to spring back. He then allowed Mrs. Allison to pick it up- It
started ringing after it was in the air, and she then turned slowly
around through 360 degrees and put it back upon the table, still
ringing. It stopped in the dark [after the red light had been put
THE BELL-BOXES OF EARLY 1925 119
out at the conclusion of the experiment]. While it was ringing up
in the air, however, there were two momentary stops.
If we address our attention to the possibilities of fraud in the ring-
ing of this bell-box, certain things may be ruled out at once. Any one
may explore the surface of the flapper with a magnet, and verify that
it lacks magnetic properties. One species of skeptic clings pertina-
ciously to the idea of radio fraud, though any sitter may satisfy him-
self that the box carries nothing which conceivably could function as a
radio receiver. Conventional magic might most profitably attempt the
effect by misdir:ection of attention, in connection with the ringing of
some other bell, elsewhere in the room. This theory is met by the facts
that the flapper's motion is often observable, and that the ringing is
often located in the box beyond possibility of error; also by my dicta-
phone records of Chapter XIV carrying the sound of the bell-ringing.
The bell can obviously be rung, and synchronism obtained with the
flapper's motion, if we run a wire or other connection from a guilty
hand to this member ; but the procedure adopted in the seance room is
aimed first of all at excluding this most elementary of frauds, and is
adequate to the purpose-so adequate, in fact, that no current criti-
cism of the mediumship revolves about this hypothesis. Refusal to
accept the SAB ringing as genuine now invariably falls back upon a
plea originated by the conscientious objectors from Harvard-a plea
that gives critical importance to the intervals of darkness that separate
the ringing episodes. Margery is pictured as freeing a hand from her
husband's control, and as manipulating the spring with this hand until
the contact is all but closed. Preliminary ringing in darkness as the
box stands on the table represents experiment and working test whereby
she knows that the spring is just right. Then as the sitter takes the
box in hand and rises and moves about, the constant small resultant
jarring is supposed to cause the contacts to vibrate into and out of
touch, producing thQ ringing. _
This picture does not square with the facts. First, the only sounds
that I have been able to get out of the box by the technique described
are a series of highly staccato pickings at the bell, lasting each the
merest fraction of a second and hardly to be called rings at all. If
one wants continuous ringing, one must apparently bend the spring
down so sharply that ringing starts while the pell stands by on the
table, which almost never occurs in the seances ; and under .these con-
ditions, accidental jarring is hardly enough to brealc contact and cause
. 120 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the momentary silences. If one be content with tickings of the bell,
these are to be got only by shaking the box to a degree going equally
beyond accident, and leading to an audible dropping together of the
metallic contact points which is more noticeable than the ringing itself
and which is absent in the seance. Again; the theory seems to meet the
fact in that ringing in the seances usually stops only after the bell is
t•onl falls open he•e lo
e>lend of pfay allowed
by padlock.
·..... ·· ·;-~...;;~::~ ... making contact
The Hole Bell-Box of Chapter XI
back ·on the table and the light has gone out and opportunity has thus
been given for reverse manipulation of the spring; but it conspicuously
fails to meet the fact that the ringing here, which has been pictured as
dependent upon the vibration from an unsteady arm, continues without
modification after the box is put down.
Finally, while the bell-box acts are given always substantially as
described, there now and again occurs, accidentally or through design,
a critical variation in detail. Thus, under the theory outlined, the bell
should ring the instant it leaves the table; in fact, it often does not
start until it is very well indeed away from the table. Then, too, on
numerous occasions the generalization that the bell continues to ring
after the box is set down and until after the light goes out, has been
conti'adicted. The box has been known to stop its ringing on the table
before the light was turned off, and even while it was still in the hands
of the sitter who had carried it about. And while the rings are always
long enough to support the contrast which I have drawn between them
and the effect obtainable by tampering with the spring, a notable varia-
tion is observed in the number and length of the silent intervals. Often
these are quite long; and when they are so, they are not usually punc-
THE BELL-BOXES OF EARLY 1925 121
tuated by momentary or staccato rings, as would be the case if silence
or ringing was due to jarring of the spring.
We rnay then proceed with the records : in connection with feature-
less performances of the SAB, merely giving the date and the name of
the sitter who lifted or carried the box or turned around with it; and
in connection with important episodes which add anything to the
picture of validity, giving the full record so far as it involves the
bell-box.
On February 22d, J. H. Brown was the engineer, as we may call
the sitter who handles the box during the seance. On March 22d, 25th
and 29th, it performed only while standing on the t able; the same
restriction applies to April 4th. On April 8th, Holmyard was the
engineer; and the record tells us explicitly that the ringing began only
after he had it well off the table. On the lOth, Millea was the engineer,
and the record stresses the intermittency of ringing. On the 12th,
after the ringing on the table in red light to the order of various
sitters which always is given when the box performs at all, we find that:
He had Miss Pierce pick up the SAB and it rang in the air
while she held it; then he had her pick it up again, to show that it
does not always ring when picked up. All this was in good red
light.1
On April 18th, Walton was the engineer; on the 19th, Button.
The record here explicitly st at es that there was intermittent ringing.
On the 21st, D ennett engineered the box; on the 22d, it rang only on
the table. For April 24th we may give the full record of the SAB
performance:
Walter rang the SAB the given number of times, as r equested,
in red light,2
by Andrews, Mrs. Andrews and Mrs. H ale, succes-
sively. H e then allowed Andrews and Mrs. Andrews successively to
pick up the SAB, and it rang intermittently while each turned
through 360 degrees. The ringing here began and ended in the
red light. H e then had Andrews pick up the box after Walter had
1 But not all in the one interval of light, of course. In case the record may seem
ambiguous to the captious critic, I state specifically that the second demonstration
which it mentions was a success; Miss Pierce pi0ked up th e box f reely ancl it ·did
not ring at all.-J . M.. B. ·
2 The sitter is always instructed to give his r equest only after the red light
has come on, and_it is met in this same interval of light. I think the point a some-
wllat strainecl 011e; but the obvious iclea is to prevent tamperin g with the box after
the order ha.s been voicecl.-J. M. B.
122 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
removed his force, to show that it did not always ri~g when picked
up.a
On April 25th and 28th, the teleplasmic hand was seen in red light
ringing the SAB; details are given on pp. 36-39. On May 8th, Walter
acted as his own critic, as he so often does :
In red light, under instructions, Edwards picked up the SAB,
which then in the air rang intermittently while Edwards turned a
full circle. The success of this was not entirely satisfactory to
Walter, so he repeated the same thing twice, the box being once
lifted by Lawrence and once by Edwards again.
On May loth, Kwaran and Lupton engineered the box; on the
18th, Dennett and Stratton; on the 30th, Clement; on June 2d, Gris-
com; on the 8th, some sitter unnamed ; on the 11th, Day. On the
latter date, "Walter immediately after told Day to pick it up again
and it did not ring."
The very admirable performance with the bell-box during my
-formal sittings of June 18th, 19th and 20th is given in detail in the full
records of these sittings, in Chapter XIII. Especially on the first of
these dates the record adds something to the preexisting structure.
During the period covered by the above excerpts, the Dingwall
model, mechanical bell-box (DB) was being used more or less as a
routine instrument for telekinesis and .luminous silhouetting. For the
former purpose it was ridiculously inferior to the SAB, of course; for
the latter purpose it was available and the SAB was not, since the one
has a luminous platform and the other has not. The telekinesis of
this box is seldom of sufficient interest to be described, falling rather
under the dates4
on which routine telekinesis is read into the record by
title; its use as a background for silhouette is described in Chapter
V. This is obviously of such fundamentally distinct nature that it
need not be covered in detail in the same chapter with the electrical
bell-box.
3 Of course, under the oblique hypothesis, this means merely that the spring
ha,s been restored to full tension in the intervening darkness.-J. M. B.
4 See page 60.
CHAPTER XI
The Curious History of the " Hole Bell-Box "
By the Editor
Through their routine use during the first half of 1925, the two
bell-boxes which I have described and whose performances I have chron-
icled in the preceding chapter came under the frequent observation
of Messrs. Code, Hoagland and Co. These observers, although
they built a new and improved DB as stated on . page 86, were
not greatly interested in this model, for the reason that I have
advanced: that it could not be used for continuous peals enabling
it to be examined while in action. And to the design of the SAB, which
would permit this examination, they advanced what they regarded as
a critical objection. The contacts and portions of the wires were
exposed, in the open; and this should not be. The entire outfit,
including especially all portions of the electrical circuit, should be
enclosed. In principle this is simple enough; all one need do is take
the entire SAB unit and enclose it within another, outer box, with a
hole or holes through which 'iValter may .project his forces or his
terminals to depress the flapper; or through which a material striker
similar to that on the DB may pass, to be worked upon by Walter in
the open. Both .these principles were employed in the construction of
a series of bell-boxes manufactured by the Harvard group, and used
in the seances of the late spring and early summer over which they had
supervlSlon. With this super-critical insulation of the working parts
of the bell-box against fraud one may sympathize, even though one be
at a loss to picture in precise terms what fraud might be committed on
the external wiring of the SAB.
The Harvard group, first and last, constructed several bell-boxes
of different design, all aimed in the direction indicated by the above
remarks. One of them was got, in effect, by duplicating the SAB and
putting it inside a bigger box, with means for access through the top of
this to the hinged flapper within. This came to be known as the Code
bell-box, and we may so denominate it herein. Their much more com-
plicated ultimate masterpiece of bell-box design was different from this,
123
124 THE MARGE RY MEDIUMSHIP
and far more ingenious. The initial idea behind its construction was
the desire to learn more of Walter's terminals. So a long, narrow outer
shell was contemplated for t he box, with a row of holes in its top of
different sizes. As reduced to practice there were six of these. holes,
and their diameters ran from a full inch down to a sixt~enth. E ach
hole was surrounded by a quarter-inch-wide ring of luminous paint.
They were arranged along the top of the box in line and in order of size,
so that there would be a minimum of difficulty in associating any
observed silhouetting with the diameter of the hole at which it occurred.
In view of the fact that pressure might thus be exerted upon the
contact member inside t he box over quite a wide range of its surface,
it was now deemed advisable not to have this hinged, as in the SAB;
for if it were so hinged, more pressure would be needed to ring the
bell through one hole t han through another. The contact member
was therefore hung in an ingeniously devised rubber cradle ; and the
contact members, instead of being small bits of sheet met al as in the
SAB, were sheets of copper substantially the full cross-sectional size
of the box. The net result was that a uniform pressure would depress
the wooden and rubber intermediaries and bring about contact at some
portion of these copper sheets, regardless of what point on the wooden
member received t his pressure. To open the box for examination or
for renewal of the batteries, one of the long faces was hinged; and
this was not the top, as in previous bell-boxes, but one of the vertical
faces. This face was hinged at the bottom and padlocked at the top.
When unlocked, it of course would fall open away from the box. And
being locked by st aple and padlock, it of course did ·not stand snugly
in position; it rather had a play of something like a thirty-second of
an inch, and as the box stood on the seance-room table there would be
always a crack of that width along one entire side of the top. This
could have been avoided if the top piece had lapped over the sides ;
instead of that, the sides came up flush with the top. The drawing
(page 120) is intended to exhibit the critical features of this box as t he
story will bring them out, without complicating the issue with any
superfluous lines. By way of further illust rating the mechanical action
involved in the ringing of this bell-box, a pencil is shown inserted into
one of the holes and about t o depress the upper board into contact
position.
One further feature remains to be mentioned. Upon the upper
face of the wooden contact member inside the box there could be
fastened carbon paper, clay, or any other substance designed to t ake
THE CURIOUS HISTORY OF THE" HOLE BELL-BOX" 125
an impression of some sort from the terminal used in ringing the bell.
Such terminal would have to enter the box to a depth of about one
and one-half inch in order to depress the wooden member to the contact.
point. Code et al claim that all the marks ever got on the carbon
(see pp. 90, extreme top; 125, June 25th record; 137- 9) were very
evidently made by use of a pencil as " terminal."
This piece of apparatus was dubbed the "Hole bell-box" by the
Crandons, and we shall so call it, designating it as HB for short. Code
brought it with him to the Lime S.treet seance of June 25th, the record
for which tells us:
The new bell-box was put on the table and Walter's hand could
be seen almost at once. H e penetrated the three biggest holes
with a·stiff enough terminal to be able, as we found later, to scratch
the carbon p apers clearly. There was not enough stiffness in the
terminal, however, to ring the bell; a pressure of about nine pounds
was required. Each hole that he penetrated seemed to be com-
pletely filled by the entering terminal. Walter said that if the
spring could be made less stiff1
he could ring the bell without
difficulty through the three biggest holes at least.
Code took the HB away with him when he left Lime Street that
night. It was presumably present at the H arvard sittings on the
29th and 30th, but did not come into use ; the records printed in
M. H . V. indicate the extent to which other models of bell-box were
used by the Harvard group and rung by Walter; into this I need not
here go. Then, following the promulgation of Hypothesis H,2
and
while there still existed a friendly feeling between the Crandons and
some at least of these investigators, the Doctor asked Code whether
they would not turn over to him, for subsequent use in the Lime Street
seances, such of their apparatus as they felt they had no more use for.
I do not see just how Code could consistently meet this request, since
he was as emphatic as it is humanly possible to be in behalf of the
proposition that the mediumship must be dropped to avoid disastrous
psychological reactions on the medium and her husband. Nevertheless,
he did meet it; and the HB was among the appar atus thus turned over.
Its first performance in Lime Street came when it was employed
to considerable degree and with surprising effect in my " official "
1 He was talking in terms of pTevious experience; this box has no spring. The
spring effect is got f rom the rubber suspension.- J. J\1[. B.
2 J onmal, A.S.'P.R., Dec., 1925, pp. 7l.S-9; ancl above, p. 94.
126 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
seances of July 16th-18th, the records of which will be found in full in
Chapter XIV. For the immediate present purposes, however, it may be
well to summarize the facts with reference to the HB from these seances.
Walter rang it with all six of the holes sealed up in thoroughly effective
fashion; and my theory that he was gaining entry to the box by the
crack along the upper front edge was met when he permitted us to seal
this, too, and continued to ring the box as merrily and with as complete
command of its action as ever.
I did not happen to see Code during my July visits; but when I
wa·s in Boston for my sittings of August I saw a lot of him, in connec-
tion with a project involving his assisting me in another investigation.
Following this, I drew up a statement on August 15th which in some
measure duplicates what I have already set down herein; but the gen-
eral desirability of citing contemporaneous documents impels me to
give it in full, despite the repetition:
It will be r ecalled that on several occasions in July, the HB was
rung by '~Talter when the holes and the orifice along the lid were
both sealed. At this time it was Crandon's impression that he had
not the key to the box; so I postponed any careful examination
until I might get access to the interior without forcing the lock
On the morning and afternoon of Saturday, August 15th, I had
long conferences with Code. I described to him the way this box
had been rung with a seal over all the openings I had been able to
find through which it could be rung. Code stated that he himself
could ring the box under the same conditions. I asked him whether
it was intentionally in a condition permitting this ; he said it was,
and gave the following history:
As originally designed and constructed, there was no "gimmick"
about the box. It could be rung through the holes and, though
that was not the intent, doubtless through the crack. But follow-
ing the seances of June 29th and 30th Code began to sit in his
apartment, for test purposes, in exploration of the possibilities of
fraud, and with his colleagues as "sitters." At this time and in
this connection, he rebuilt the box, incorporating in it means
whereby it might be rung in some fashion other than provided for
in its original design. He did not state what the gimmick was,
though I gave him opportunity to do so; I did not ask him out-
right, since it became evident that he did not wish to tell me. He
did not state what the motive was, either, though equally I gave
him opportunity here. W hile he was using the " gimmicked " box
for their mystification, he did not inform his colleagues that it was
THE CURIOUS HISTORY OF THE" HOLE BELL-BOX" 127
in a different condition from that in which it had been presented to
Walter; whether he ever told them this, he did not indicate.
As regards motive, I must comment unfavorably. The criticism
advanced against the original SAB was that part of the electrical
system was external to the box. The argument was made that the
entire electrical mechanism, and particularly the means for making
and breaking the circuit, should be housed within the locked shell.
The Code bell-box3
was designed to meet this argument, and after
it the HB was put out as a further improvement. It involves a
fundamental contradiction, and a reflection upon the good faith
of the whole argument, when we find a gimmick incorporated into
the HB which permits the bell to be rung by a manipulation outside
the box, such as we shall see to be the case here.
Code did not indicate whether the gimmicked box had been used
in the Harvard sittings..~ But when Crandon asked, as a favor,
the delivery to him of the apparatus made by the Harvard boys
for which they had no further use, there was turned over to him,
among other things, the HB. Code stated that he meant to restore
it to its original condition but had no opportunity to do this; that
failing this, he meant to notify Margery of its gimmicked condi-
tion. He stated that he delivered the box to Lime Street in per-
son, finding the Crandons out; that he made several subsequent
efforts to notify them by telephone; but that he had succeeded only
in informing Margery that he had had the bell-box r ing for him
in white light in his room. It was not at all clear to me why he
was dependent upon the telephone; or why, if he was able to tell
her half the story, he could not t ell her all of it." It is a fact that
Margery knows of Code's claim to have heard the bell ring in his
room in daylight; but she puts it in just those words, and does
not in the least understand that this involved a gimmick. She
knew that Code had told his colleagues about this white light
ringing in his room, and suggested that he'd best have a care, or
they would think he was crazy. She displayed bewilderment as to
just how Code reconciled his claims against her and against
mediumship in general with this story of the bell's ringing for
him. I am altogether inclined to believe that this represents her
true state of knowledge and belief and her true reaction. If she
understood that there was a gimmick in the box, under the hypo-
a See p. 123. .
,_~At this time I hac1 not access to the records which W
·ould have shown that it
was not. This makes another very cogent reason for not using it at all, either
gimmicked or in its original state, in Code's experimental sittings.-J . M. B.
s Thi s ~eems to comport well with the atmosphere of mystery anc1 melodrama sur-
rounding his letter to. me which I quote on p. 91 .-J. M. B.
121; THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
thesis of fraud she would keep quiet about it and try to find it for
her own use, while under that of validity she would seek my aid
in finding and eliminating it.
The net result is that I must be acutely suspicious of the whole
episode. 'Vhy attach a gimmick to this box at all? Why turn
it over to Crandon in gimmicked condition? Why fail to inform
Crandon and Margery of the presence of the gimmick? ·why at-
tempt to notify hel:, rather than Crandon? 'iVhy make such an
ineffectual attempt at this notification?
Code told me that the gimmick was of such character that ex-
amination of the inside of the box would not reveal it. This sug-
gested a short-circuit, so cleverly concealed that the wood-work of
the box would have to be torn apart to find it. I went back to
Lime Street to look for the gimmick, and as the obvious att ack I
looked for external means of short-circuit. The outside of the
box carries an extreme number of metal parts ; two hinges, a pad-
lock with plate and staple, and an enormous array of screws.
Operating with a length of wire, I tried the effect of setting up
connection between all possible pairs of these members. After
some fifty failures, I succeeded. Either of two screws holding one
end of the box in place constitutes the one terminal; either of three
screws serving a similar purpose at the other end of the box serves
as the other. In addition, it is evident that the wire carrying this
trick circuit runs along the woodwork of the side of the box; for
a certain particular screw along that side can also be used as a
terminal for the short-circuiting. This screw accidentally taps
the shorting wire; by screwing it out to the extent of about 3/32
inch, this tapping is relieved, and then one can set up the short-
circuit only by using the terminals at the opposite ends of the box.6
Crandon was able, this time, to produce the key; so I examined
the interior of the box. Midway between top and bottom, a shelf
corresponding in length and width to the box itself divides the
interior into two closed compartments. The large number of
screws seen in the outside surface of the box arises in good part
out of the necessity for having a row of screws clear around the
box to hold this shelf. In the lower compartment are mounted
the batteries and bell. On the upper face of the partition is
fastened an extensive copper sheet. A second board, of approxi-
mately the same dimensions, is suspended above this shelf by four
strips of rubber, one at its each corner. These strips are tacked
to the board in question, and to the ends of the box just under
o Code subsequently verified these iufe1·ences as to the intent of the gimmick,
and the accidental character of the role played by the screw at _
the side.-J. M. B.
THE CURIOUS HISTORY OF THE" HOLE BELL-BOX" 129
the top. Pressure on the suspended board elongates these rubbers
and permits the board to descend. On its lower face is a second
copper sheet corresponding in size and position to the one on the
upper face of the shelf. ·wires from battery and bell run visibly,
one to one of these sheets and one to the other. Without destroy-
ing the box it is impossible to learn whether other connections exist;
for the interior of the box is crammed full of boards, etc.
The apparent complexity of the ensemble is increased by a
third board. vVhen the suspended contact board hangs at rest,
there is space between it and the top of the box; this space has
been largely filled by the insertion of an absolutely floating board,
which can be removed at will when the box is unlocked. It is
against this floating board that any object thrust through one
of the holes in the box-top bears; pressure is then transmitted
through the floating board to the suspended one, carrying this
down. The clever result is that pressure at any point on the float-
ing board will ring the bell, as effectively as pressure at its center.
This is why the bell can be rung through the crack at the extreme
side of the box.
Another purpose of the floating board is obviously to facilitate
the insertion and removal of carbon paper or other means of getting
impressions of the object that enters the holes. Such paper is
tacked lightly to the surface of the floating board, and may then
be inserted.or removed at will by inserting or removing that board.
Changing the paper is thus made easy.
The screws at either end of the box that provide terminals for
the gimmick circuit really do serve to hold the box together. But
a channel has been chiseled out in the junction between ·the side
and end boards, and in this channel has been inserted a narrow
metal plate, running up and down, and pierced by the screws.
From these plates wires must run through concealed ducts in the
wooden faces of the box, one to one of the copper contact sheets
and one to the other. It is one of these concealed wires that is
accidentally tapped by the screw in the side of the box. Complet-
ing the circuit between copper sheets by means of an external wire
running from one screw-head terminal to the other obviously rings
the bell, just as effectively as does contact between the two plates.
The scheme for Code to assist me in another investigation weht
through successfully, and I was in his company for much of the latter
two weeks of August. We talked a great deal about the Margery
case. Code made every effort to convince me that Hypothesis H would
130 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
hold water as a complete solution to the case. I made no attempt to
convince him of anything; I merely asked questions and in every way
encouraged him to t alk. H e verified all my conclusions with regard
to the gimmick, and seemed a bit chagrinned that it had yielded so
readily to search. He expanded greatly on the story of his use of
the box in fake seances, his attempts to notify Margery about it, etc.,
etc. I told him point blank that many people would have difficulty
m crediting his story or in believing that he had acted in good faith,
and I told him with equal bluntness that I thought he had played the
part of a consummate ass. He agreed with me, without reservation
of any sort. To my query as to the position in which the Crandons
would have been placed had the discovery of a gimmicked bell-box in
routine use in their seance room been made by a skeptic of the Houdini
breed, rather than by myself-well, he smiled a sickly smile and had
no adequate answer. I am by no means satisfied that this was not
the motive behind the whole incident. If I am corres:t in this hazard,
a decent interval would have been allowed to elapse, in order that the
HB with its Harvard origin might have been in Crandon's hands long
enough to lend plausibility to the notion that he had tampered with it.
Then a hostile observer could have been "planted" in one of the seances,
to make the damning discovery. P eople who do not wish to be suspected
of such a plot as this should take pains to make their behavior less of
an invitation to the charge.
If this really were the purpose, a good start had been made toward
putting the scheme into execution. On July 20th:
The HB was t hen called for. The luminous holes were covered
with a strip of cardboard, tacked on so that if it were lifted as
much as 1/ 16 inch the luminosity would show. The crack through
which it had been discovered that the bell could be rung with a
knife was covered with surgeon's tape, which was doubled over on
the ends and under the box. T here remained then no normal way
that we could think of whereby the box could be rung. Trance
came on, and Walter rang the bell with great vigor, long and
short peals and the number of t imes requested by Hill and Li.tzcl-
mann successively. During this ringing Hill had the Psychic's
left hand and knee, and her head-band could be seen in its proper
place in the room. Litzelman held the Psychic's right hand and
Crandon's two hands, and Crandon's chin rested on Litzelmann's
hand. The P sychic's two ankles could be seen, and her feet rested
on Litzelmann's feet.
THE CURIOUS HISTORY OF THE" HOLE BELL-BOX" 131
It is unfortunate that Crandon tends to permit extreme control,
such as is instanced above, only by sitters with whom he is most closely
acquainted, and against whom the allegation of confederacy is there-
fore somewhat less absurd than in the general case. Nevertheless,
Qne can appreciate how Crundon's confidence in the sitter is necessary
before the sitter can be given a post of extreme responsibility, from
which he may either lie about his control or make unauthorized moves
that Crandon regards as detrimental to the Psychic's well-being. It
is such considerations as this that drive Crandon to mechanical control.
In connection with all this confession stuff from Code, I demanded
that he write to the Crandons, giving them a statement of the gim-
micked _condition of the box and pleading guilty to having gimmicked
it himself. This seemed necessary, to protect them against any pos-
sible charge of having done it, the?nselves. He met this request, with
a letter written and mailed at some date in September or possibly later;
but he post-dated it buclc to July 11th, the date on which he delivered
the apparatus to Lime Street. This seems final proof of his bad faith:
his letter written to exculpate the Crandons of knowledge of the con-
dition of the box was calculat ed, if they ever produced it, to make
it appear that this knowledge had been theirs throughout the period
of its use in their seance room !
CHAPTER XII
The Serious Side of the Harvard Case
By the Editor
To this point, the Harvard case against Margery has been dis-
cussed only in so far as it rests on Code's testimony and Code's activ-
ities in general. That his conduct was so devious as to isolate him
from every benefit of the presumption of good faith which ordinarily
attaches to a normal person seems to me inescapably clear from the
narrative of Chapters IX and XI. On the face of this record, his
good faith would have to be very specifically demonstrated rather than
assumed, and the demonstration would have to overcome a notable
weight of adverse evidence. So far, then, as the Harvard case against
Margery is based upon evidence in which Code is in any way involved,
it is unworthy of serious attention.
To what degree and on what grounds did it, despite this, get the
attention of Code's immediate colleagues, and of the other faculty
members who came in any way into the picture? What evidence
against Margery, independent of Code's contributions, have they to
present in support of their published negation of the mediumship?
These questions-particularly the last one-must receive the serious
consideration of any critic who wishes to be free from the appearance
of one-sidedness.
Of course in the very nature of thi1igs, we should not look for com-
plete uniformity of conviction from so many persons; and in point of
fact, there appears neither uniformity of conviction nor a uniform
degree of enthusiastic continued prosecution of the case. Code and
Hoagland shine in both these respects, followed quite ciosely in at least
the former regard by Shapley. As regards the entire group, however,
it is distinctly in order for us to consider the rather complex reasons
why the very large doubts thrown upon the case for the prosecution
by the present narrative have not been given more weight.
All human motives are mixed; those with which we deal here seem
to me more than ordinarily so. In some part, as I have suggested on
page 106, whatever degree of varied individual acceptance the members
of the Harvard group gave to Code's story was due to their lack of
132
THE SERIOUS SIDE OF THE HARVARD CASE 133
full information covering all the facts of his connection with the case.
One naturally gives a considerable degree of automatic credence to
one's friend and colleague, and one has naturally to be more or less
forced by circumstances and against one's will or inclinations into a
consideration of the possibility that such a person is not to be credited.
When we see how even those in charge of the policies of the London
S.P.R. have allowed Code's apparent academic respectability to put
them more or less in the position of automatically accepting his word
as a gentleman, against :Margery's as a mere defendant, we must realize
that it would have been far too much of a wrench to expect his
immediate colleagues and close friends to do anything different.
This is the more the case, in view of various general considerations,
no one of which was operative to its full possibilities in any of the
Harvard minds; but all of which must have been consciously or uncon-
sciously present to some extent in all these minds, and all of which
constitute more or less of an urge toward negative findings. Leaving
quite out of the question their prior contact with Margery, it is fair to
point out that all these academic gentlemen must have had some degree
of predisposition against the general notion of the validity of psychical
phenomena; and that in so far as their experience with this particular
case had led to their formation of tentatively favorable judgments, these·
judgments must have been more than ordinarily open to reversal on
that account. The general attitude of aprioristic negation was most
evident with Shapley and the members of the Medical School faculty
who came into the case; that any member of the entire group could
have been wholly free therefrom is ridiculous to suppose.
I pass over very lightly the allegation, rather freely made by
Margery's partisans, that a direct and irresistible academic pressure
was exerted upon the entire membership of the group. Richardson
states that one of them so admitted privately to him; Hill states that
practically all of them were quoted in this admission by a newspaper
man who interviewed them and him at the time when the case broke
into the front-page headlines of the local press. But it is vigorously
denied by all of them, and there does not seem to me to be enough
evidence to justify insistence upon the point. What is however amply
clear is that in so far as the members of the immediately responsible
group-Hoagland, Code, Damon, Hillyer and Marshall-had any
degree of conviction that the phenomena were or might be valid, they
must all have had the distinct realization that the more conservative
134 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
and the more academically respectable course lay in the direction of
negation. Their duty to scientific truth would hardly permit them to
ignore large obvious facts, nor to refuse such open-minded investigation
as they might be capable of. The factor mentioned would however
give them some distortion of viewpoint toward the ambiguous factors
which enter so largely into psychical research; and in some of their
minds at least there must have been a distinct feeling of relief when it
became clear that their findings might with some show of plausibility
fall in with the majority opinion of the academic world.
The presence of McDougall in Cambridge and his immediate respon-
sibility for the work of Hoagland with the case cannot be ignored or
minimized in this connection. H oagland had an oral agreement with
McDougall, approving of the Committee's project, of their use of
University premises and facilities, and, if the outcO?ne wan·anted this,
of Hoagland's using the results of the investigation for his doctor's
thesis. This agreement was made at a time when Hoagland expressed
confidence that their final results would be favorable to the hypothesis
of validity. But even when we know this, it does not in the least t ake
the curse off the sinister presence of McDougall behind Hoagland's
contact with the case. McDougall could very safely agree that Hoag-
land might have a doctorate in exchange for pToof of' validity that .
zr;ould satisf'y 1l1cDougall! We are told that MoDougall had no con-
tact with other members of the group until after the denouement but
it is evident that he could influence them through Hoagland, with whom
he must in the nature of the case have kept in contact. Are we to
suppose that he was any more moderate in t alking about the case to
Hoagland than to Tillyard, Schiller, Miss V\Talker, etc.?1
And are we
never to have an unfavorable verdict upon the case that is free from
all suspicion of having been dictated or influenced by this obstinat e
Scotchman?
These factors are quite adequate to explain any tendency toward
a negative verdict which the members of the Harvard group, or the
group as a whole, might have displayed. For the verdict itself, aside
from the mere t endency, something a little more definite would be
required. Something must have been afforded them which, in the pres-
ence of the tendencies just now described, would appeal to them as
direct evidence against Margery, independent of Code's share in the
case. Without this, even in the presence of the influences which I have
1 See pages 479- 8'2.
THE SERIOUS SIDE OF THE HARVARD CASE 135
shown to be active, it would hardly have been possible for them to
swallow Code's evidence so completely or to incorporate it so thorough-
goingly into their case.
In point of fact there were several categories of observations and
deductions, made independently of Code and carrying sufficient impor-
tance to require that they be explained away before the case for the
medium could be regarded as cleared up. Most of them ?nay be
explained away with sufficient ease, on the general grounds that what
is presented by these critics as indicative of fraud might equally well
be an aspect of valid mediumship; and that the ne~ative viewpoint
toward these items is forced upon these criticis by(~h>Jgeneral factors
which we have enumerated as pushing them in that direction.
For instance: after the hypothesis of fraud had been formulated,
Hoagland and others were able to look back over the previous sittings,
and to see where the silhouetted objects which at the time had gone
into the records as caused by t eleplasmic terminals could now be inter-
preted in terms of the psychic's feet, hands or legs; of artificial arm-
like objects; etc., etc. Assuming that the records are honestly made
in the first place, it is wholly proper thus to examine into the propriety
of their reinterpretation in the light of new knowledge. It is of course
very necessary in this connection to guard against a Testatement of the
frtcts which shall be of no merit other than as it serves to make the .
facts more amenable to the new interpretation-against a revision of
the record in the interest s of the oblique hypothesis. This revision
seems to me to have been undertaken in some slight degree by the
Harvard addenda to which Crandon has obj ected; but otherwise the
Harvard group are innocent of any tampering with the documents.
They have not, however, in my judgment, given sufficient attention to
the question: If two opposed interpretations of a given series of facts
are offered, how shall we choose between them? They have, it seems
to me, chosen merely the one which they like best. Given observers who
have suddenly become more willing than they were to interpret in the
sense of fraud observations such as the silhouettings, touches, trance
restlessness, etc., etc., etc., occurring in a mediumship of this type, it
would certainly be most extraordinary if they found nothing which
could be forced into the figure of such interpretation. All their evi-
dence in these categories seems to me quite easily reconcilable with the
hypothesis of validity-as easily so as with that of fraud.
Much more serious, however, is another aspect of their case: that
136 THE MARGE R Y MEDIUMSHIP
arising out of their efforts to obtain imprints from the teleplasmic
terminals. Indeed, of all their facts and allegations, I rat e this as
most difficult of reconciliation with a favorable interpretation of the
case. Inasmuch as it is at the same time one of the aspects of the
case which has not been completely covered in print, I can here kill
two birds with one stone : making good the deficiency in the existing
printed records while also making it clear that I am not at all disposed
t o dodge issues or ignore unfavorable evidence.
The history of this matter is touched upon in H . A .,2
and in so far
as a defence was at that time offered, I have indicated in B. vs. H.3
what this was. Naturally the H arvard group denied these counter-
charges ; and a more or less complete statement was drawn up by Hoag-
land, setting forth their side of the controversy. This carries the
date December 18th, 1925, and came into my hands under circum-
stances guaranteeing its contemporaneous character. I have already
criticized1
the failure to show in the detailed r ecords of the seances
the ver y pertinent facts (I ignore Crand011's denial, and attach that
term to them as a mere matter of tentative convenience, much as in
the seance-room we call Walter by his name) of this statement. If
further criticism were attempted on the basis that these facts should
have appeared in the A tlcmtic, the pressure of space would be a satis-
factory answer, save in so far as H oagland's use of such an improper
medium makes him responsible for all the infelicities arising from its
use. The statement in question is as follows :
The first medium used t o obtain p rints of the teleplasm was
warm paraffin on plates. Dr . vVolbach, Professor of P athology
at the H arvard Medical School, took charge of the prints made at
this time. Paraffin was ladled on to a plat e and the plate then
placed on the t able into which the medium thrust her leg.5
This
plate was then p ut aside in a box by Professor Wolbach and
covered with paper and carried to t he Medical School where he
examined it. It distinctly showed coarse skin marks, identical
with those of the human foot. It apparently had been marked
2 See pages <673, 676.
3 Pages 725-6.
4 B. vs. H., page 726.
u Inasmuch as I am giving an original document, I refrain from any t extual
revision. I assume that " plate" rather than " table " is intended to 'be the ante-
cedent of "which" ; and I infer that the action so baldly attributed to the medium 's
leg must at the time have been represented and accepted as that of a teleplasmic
t ermina.J. See open reference No. 32 in Vol. 2.- J. M. B.
THE SERIOUS SIDE OF T HE H ARVARD CASE 137
by the ball of the foot and there was a mark nearby which could
readily have been made with the great toe.
In the next sitting p araffin was again used in a similar way.
On this same occasion plasticine was introduced. This plasticine
was examined beforehand for its purity by the naked eye. It
was put .upon glass plat es and during the seance set in front of
Walter for imp ression. T he teleplasm made impressions of a
blurred sort on one of t hese plates of plasticine. A ball of plasti-
cine was also p ut on the table and this was st amped vigorously
leaving an imp ression lined with skin marks as of a human heel
or the ball of the foot. It was in the plasticine of this evening
that the lint was clearly found. It was visible to the naked eye
as lint and under the microscope was identified by Dr. V\T
olbach
with the lint of the slipper in our possession. There was no lint
on the plasticine where it had not been t ouched by the imp ressing
body. This plasticine was set aside with greatest care on a table.
At the conclusion of the seance it was marked in the pr esence
of Dr. Hilbert Day, P rofessor Shapley, Code, Damon, Dr. and
Mrs. Crandon and myself. They() were then carefully placed in
tin boxes, no cloth or even paper touching them. On the following
morning I carried them wit h the great est care to the H arvard
Medical School. Imp ressions of Mrs. Crandon's feet and hands
were also taken on the same evening and these were marked by
writing in the plasticine near the impression with a point. The
labelling and sorting of these impressions can be verified by Dr.
Day, Dr. Shapley, or by P rof. W olbach at the sit ting which he
attended, to say nothing of Code, Damon and myself. The claim
that they were thrown into a bag together is absolutely untrue.
The lint, the skelet on of an insect, and the particles of silica were
unmist akable.
It is interesting t o note that the lint fibers appeared black t o
the naked eye but that under the microscope there were a number
of short red fibers. These shor t red fibers appeared both in the
lint of the slipper and in the lint of the plasticine. There was
no question eit her in point of view of the mat erial, length of fiber,
or color but what the lints were identical in every respect. Dr.
Wolbach kept the impressions in cold st orage at the Harvard
Medical School all summer . They are now in my p ossession and
may be examined at any time along with the slipp er.
The impressions of t he plasticine were blurred to some extent,
G I.e., the several pl!listicine blank3 carrying prints of any charact er whatever,
whether admittedly normal ·or allegedly supem ormal.-J. M. B.
138 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
as stated in the Atlantic, rendering identification with the prints
of the medium's foot extremely difficult. \iVe have since found
however that the greatest difficlty, since 'the writing of the Atlantic
article, appears to be the fact that the impression of M rs. Crandon's
right foot was poorly taken, because of our lack of technical
knowledge of these matters. A shallow impression of. Mrs. Cran-
don's right heel is all that was taken on this occasion; no impres-
sion was taken of the ball of the foot.
A prominent expert on these matters has since informed me,
from examination of the plasticine, that he believes that the
impressions were made with the ball of the foot rather than with
the heel and since we have no record of the ball of Mrs. Crandon's
foot we have not been able to make any direct identification. This
same person told me that he was sure he could make an identifica-
tion if adequate impressions of the medium's right foot were taken.
If Mrs. Crandon cares to have such a record taken in the presence
of satisfactory witnesses this aspect of the case might still prove
interesting. However, though no direction identification was made
between the foot print and the teleplasm print it was clear that
the teleplasm print was that of a human foot, that it carried lint
from the medium's slipper, sand, and an insect skeleton. And it
is also a fact which can easily be verified that these impressions
were adequately classified and handled with the greatest care.
The above record is much fuller than anything we have heretofore
had from the Harvard group on this subject, though it still leaves
unmentioned some points of more or less importance. It appears that
impressions were got on three dates. On June 24th, three paraffin
plates were secured, one on china and two on paper; and on the 29th
and 30th, one plasticine imprint for each date. This of course has to
do exclusively with seance prints of alleged supernormal origin; nor-
mally made pr1nts of Margery's own feet were taken at least once,
in plasticine, for comparison. The seance record is ambiguous where
it1 attempts to define the procedure with the plasticine balls; they
were in fact kept in a group on a side table or board and placed one
at a time on the seance table for vValter's attention. But this con-
stitutional inability to produce an adequate record is characteristic.
Another point upon which oral int errogation (not by me, but by
one who r eports to me) of Hoagland has resulted in amplification of
the documents has to do with the details of the incriminating prints.
1M. H . V., page 79.
THE SERIOUS SIDE OF THE H ARVARD CASE 139
The statement is made that the silica, the insect skeleton and the lint
whose presence in one of the t eleplasmic prints leads to all the contro-
versy were, all three of them, in the actual impression and firmly ground
down thereinto, thus becoming part thereof. Accordingly, they must
have been laid down off the imprinting object or have been priorly
present on the surface of the plasticine ball. Hoagland under oral
interrogation recognizes that this latter suggestion is one which the
defense rnay well take up, in view of the recorded fact that on ,June
30th, plasticine balls (which led on this date to no impression but
which were present for use if wanted) were allowed to fall to the
floor, and were apparently picked up ther efrom and returned to a
position of potential use in the seance. By way of meeting the obvious
rejoinder which might be built up out of this circumstance plus the
grossly inadequate character of their own records, the statement is
now made in behalf of the Harvard group that in the sittings from
which imprints actually resulted, nothing of this sort occurred. Once
the records are found so incomplet e, of course, ere post facto supple-
mentary statements like this; representing the best memory of the
investigators, despite their obviously unsatisfactory character are the
best attempt that can be made at answering any questions that a rise.
I have no space or purpose to go into any long argument or analy-
sis on any such inadequate or err post facto basis as is her e afforded.
Obviously in addition to the general factors involved in any such
discussion which one might make, there would be the accumulation of
individual observations, tlie sum total of each observer's experience
in the seance rooms; experience originally interpreted in t eleplasmic
t erms, but now fitted into the theory of fraud and more or less satis-
factorily r einforcing the individual's adherence to that theory. Such
items wer e doubtless of much weight in the individual minds but I
have sufficiently indicated the weight which they ought to have in
view of their essentially ambiguous character. And I have no doubt
that persons adversely disposed toward the mediumship, as well as
those whose minds are open in both directions, will r egard the whole
situation r evolving about the par affin and plasticine imp ressions as
the strongest evidence presented in support of the Harvard conclu-
sions. One can deny it in toto as Crandon tends to do8
and when one
does this it is true that no clean-cut proof can be offered in its behalf.
Nevertheless no clean-cut proof can in the nature of the case be offered
s See B. vs. H ., page 726, top.
140 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
against it-this would be true, even in the extreme case where such
evidence as this had been deliberat ely fabricat ed in support of a
deliberat ely fraudulent exposure. The physical evidence of the print
is in existence and gives t o this part of the case against Margery a
standing-speciously if you insist, but none the less a standing-which
can never be enjoyed by mere squabbles about what happened in a
given seance or what interpret ation is to be put on something admitted
to have happened. N obody can well escape the conclusion that here
lies the gravest part of the entire Harvard case against Margery; and
any person who holds a favor able viewpoint toward the case as a whole
may well be asked, pointedly, how he proposes to get away from it.
I do not know that rny answer to this query will particularly impress
any adverse critic; but for what ever it may seem worth to such critics,
her e it is :
The hostile critic, confronted by a well-drawn record of an active
seance and asked how he explains these phenomena, will be able to
~h ow how, in his judgment , most of the r ecorded action could have
been fraudulently produced, under the. r ecorded conditions. "\Vith
respect to other it ems he will have plausible suggestions to make, indi-
cating what err ors may have occurred in the r eporting of the phe-
nomena or of the conditions ; and how, after the correction of these
errors, the picture of fraud may be preserved. But with resp ect to
a minority of the phenomena he will be more or less bankrupt; and of
these he can only say:
" I have shown how most of the phenomena of this seance could
have been done a rtificially. I am not omniscient; I have no doubt that
fo r these few residual phenomena there ar e equally good explanations
on the ground of fr aud ; but what these may be I cannot say. Never-
theless, I h a~re shown so heavy a per centage of the phenomena to be
absolutely or p ossibly fraudulent, that I have discha rged my duty.
I cannot be held r esponsible for a hundred per cent explanation of
everything that occurs."
Now it may be a new idea to hold that the hypothesis of validity
may enjoy t his same p rivilege of laying cert ain things on the table
for future discussion; that the critic upholding the validity of a
mediumship is not obligated t o give a complet e r esolution of the char-
acter and motives of all unfavorable critics and a complet e disposition
of every single fc~c t OT obseTvation which has ever been advanced as
evidence for an unfavorable verdict . But if this is a new idea it is
THE SERIOU S SIDE OF THE HARVARD CASE 141
none the less one that ought to have standing. If ninety-five per cent
(say ) of the phenomena occurring in a given seance or a given medium-
ship are open to no conceivable attack, and if the r emaining five
per cent carry with them observations suggesting a fraudulent origin,
it is certainly not a violation of logic to insist that the preponderance
of evidence is in behalf of the theory of validity ; that some of the
apparently adverse factors can be explained away, thus and so; but
that others must be left open for the time, awaiting explanation. The
thing is done so in every branch of science ; we do not, for instance,
attack the validity of the law of gravitation because we have never
been able to r educe Mercury's behavior to complet e agreement there-
with. The only conceivable question, it seems to me, would be one
of fact r ather than one of p rinciple : namely, is the favorable presump-
tion strong enough to subsist in the face of whatever tm e.r:plained
unfavorable evidence we may have left on our hands. In the present
case, the presumption of validity introduced by the generalities of
the Margery history seems to me so strong, and the p ercentage of
unfavorable observations and verdicts which can be complet ely
explained away as product of the exposer's p sychology seems to me
so very large indeed, that ther e can be no question as to the proper
attitude toward items like the present one which we are not at this
moment able to explain away. They should be r egarded as anomalies
instead of being put forward as evidence that the ninety-five p er cent
(more or less ) of favorable observation and verdict is wrong.
I take this attitude in deliberat e preference to the attempt to
explain them away in the one way that seems immediately available.
The notion is strongly current, especially in cr edulous hyper -spiritistic
circles, that genuine phenomena p ossess an inher ent characteristic
of parallelism with fraudulent ones. W hen this philosophy is ca rried
to its limits it becomes impossible to get any evidence of fraud. Is
the light turned on to show the " entranced " medium's hands and feet
being used in the normal production of phenomena ? Then it must
Le that the forces wer e weak and the oper ators chose this way of doing
things in preference to a blank sitting. D o the impr essions made by
the t eleplasmic t erminal show the medium's fingerprints? Then it
must be that this t erminal constituted a p sychic proj ection of the
unfortunate medium's hands, prints and all. Docs the sticky black
mess which was smear ed on the trumpet appear, at the end of the
sitting, in a betraying ring around the medium's mouth? How inter-
142 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
esting; it must have come off on the teleplasm, and been deposited in
this place as the latter was being reabsorbed into the medium's organ-
Ism. I s the message on the slate obviously in the medium's hand?
Evidently, in the process by which the spirit functions through the
medium, so much of the medium's manner has been taken over by the
spirit. Are the cards on which the spirit writing appears different
from those supplied for use that day-different in thickness, in over-all
dimensions, in color, in texture and in weight ?9
Then it must be that
the occult process through which the writing is precipitated upon the
cards has upon these reactions which we do not understand, and which
produce all these changes.
The plea which I have caricatured and shown in its vicious extremes
in the above paragraph is one with which I have no patience. Much
preferable I think is the open admission that here is an anomaly which
we do not understand, which is on its face no better reconcilable with
the theory of validity than is Mercury's behavior with the classical
theory of gravitation, and which we therefore leave open to interpreta-
tion at some later dat e, when we shall be able to promulgate a theory,
in some degree different from present ones or going beyond present
ones, and under which (tll observations made of the mediumship may be
coordinated into a single generalization.
In presenting this picture, which at first glance seems such a brazen
one, I emphasize that I am really on better ground than the opposition;
since I have far less residual observations to hold out awaiting explana-
tion than has any adverse critic of the mediumship. For the fact that
this viewpoint enables me to present fully and honestly any apparently
adverse factors-such as the present one-I claim no credit; and
similarly I will .not submit to the implication that in this circumstance
lies a specious and unfair advantage of the viewpoint in question. It
cannot be specious and unfair to apply here a general principle that
is accepted without question everywhere else in scientific research.
9 See Scientific Ll.1nerica.n, Dec., 1923, page 390; :111d Light, Dec. 22, 1923, F eb. 2,
1924, for the details of a case where this plea was actually advanced tmder th e
circumstances outlined.- J. M. B.
CHAPTER XIII
The A.S.P.R. Project: Seances of June, 1925
Seance Records and Comment
By the Editor
To this date, there had been a lot of more or less serious and formal
study of the Margery mediumship by more or less accredited investi-
gators of one sort or another. But while these gentlemen had often
been, individually, members or even officials of the American Society for
Psychical Research, the Society itself, as a Society, had had no con-
tact with the case at all. Indeed, so long as Prince was its Research
Officer it was hardly to be expected that this would be otherwise; for
aside from his brilliant success in making himself obnoxious to the
Crandons, he had demonstrated more conclusively in this than in any
preceding case his weaknesses of temperament and procedure.1 But
when I became Research Officer of the Society in the physical field
almost at the very moment that Dingwall's examination of the case
was petering out into nothing, it became evident that a move was in
order to seek a study of the case by and for the Society.
There was a certain amount of negotiation with Crandon, who
naturally wanted to know what I proposed to do and how I proposed
to do it. I drew up a tentative program, indicating the type of
phenomena which I meant to pursue, and the issue to which it might
be hoped that my pursuit of them would come. This program revolved
entirely about the telekinetic phenomena; for reasons which will be
made clear as the present and immediately succeeding ·chapters roll
along, I regarded these as the most hopeful, alike for the attempt
at rigorous demonstration of the validity or otherwise of the phe-
nomena, and for fruitful inquiry into the collateral questions of modus
operandi. Although my personal opinion was entirely favorable and
I was on reco1'd to this effect, there seemed no r eason why I could not
give the hypothesis of fraud as good a part in a serious study of the
case, as a more skeptical person could give to the hypothesis of validity.
1M. M .,
, Chapter L. Of course Prince insists that he is grossly libelled here;
and equally that his inability to get on with the Crandons is entirely their fault.
l4'3
144 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
One's personal opinions need not interfere with the rigor of one's
scientific procedure and deductions.
It was my intent to record the sittings dictaphonically. This
had not been attempted since Comstock had made such a hash of it
.for the Scientific American Committee. I thought I knew what was
wrong there. In the first place there was unskillful dictation. And
in the second place there ruled the old-fashioned convention that the
words fed into the dictaphone were complete and final, that they must
not be altered one jot or tittle.
This convention I believe to be a great mistake. If the phenomena
are occurring on any other basis than that of an infinitesimal piece
of action every t en minutes, it is impossible to put into the machine
a complet e r ecord of the manifest ations and the accompanying condi-
tions. It is easy, however, to get into the r ecord enough to serve as
a complete jog to subsequent memory. Transcription of the dictated
record should therefore be accompanied by elaboration. The responsi-
bility for this of course must be clean-cut, and the portions of the
record which are thus added must be so arranged as to be easily
identifiable, and must be checked by all the sitters as carefully as
they would check the dictation itself. I offer the records of my twelve
seances of June, July and August as a demonstration of seance-
recording t echnique. The dictaphone, I would remark, is superior to
the stenographer because it doesn't talk back and ask questions;
because it involves less noise by t he dictator; and above all because
conditions of illumination a1'e immat erial to it. And if the dictator
follow my procedure of transcribing the wax notes himself, there will
be less of unintelligibility than with shorthand notes; while the interpo-
lation will be made easier.
It may not be immediat ely obvious that what I here propose to do,
and what the subsequent records show me as doing on an extremely
liberal scale, possesses any fundamental distinction from the Harvard
practice of supplying addenda to the records, against which Crandon
has so strongly objected, with such strong support from me.2
The
fact of course is that the Harvard records were supposed to be com-
plete in themselves and mine wer e not supposed to be complete until
after the amplification had been effected; that my dictation was pur-
posely done with the view to this subsequent amplification; and most
important of all, that all sitters understood the intent to amplify and
that a recognized orderly procedure exist ed for supplying the added
2 See pages 112-3.
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 145
matter a nd for insuring that it had the assent of all sitters. The
·circumstances are therefore not in the least degr ee parallel. In these
present records what we have is an orderly and systematic series of
interpolations by the entire group of sitters under my r esponsibility,
aimed solely at meeting the impossibility of dictating everything one
would like to dictat e during an active seance. In the H arvard records
we had not this, but rather a set of arbitrary addenda by part of the
sitters, against the belief and over the protest s of the others. More-
·over, my addenda are always confined to matters of fact while the
Harvard addenda seek to incorporat e into the r ecords the interpreta-
tions which some of the sitters give to the facts after due (or undue)
reflection- matter proper enough for a published discussion but not
for an original r ecord. I think there will be no difficulty on the part
{)f the unprejudiced reader in appreciating the distinction, and with
it the propriety of making the r ecords as I have here made them.
My proj ect got under way in the middle of June, at a time when
the H arvard investigation of Chapt er IX was still under way and still
apparently pointed toward a favorable verdict. It was agreed between
myself, Crandon, and the young men of the Harvard group, that some
{)f them wo.uld comprise part of my circle. For the r est, Crandon
was to be present save on such single occasions as I might request
his absence; and Richardson likewise. H ad my initial program gone
through as the work of the first three sittings suggest ed it would,
I should rather early have come to the time when such request was
in order. As things turned out, there was never an occasion when
the absence of either of these two sitters would have been at all critical,
so I never requested either of them to stay away. Social sitters, how-
ever, were to be excluded with considerable rigor; and in all questions
which Crandon did not reserve for himself as of critical importance
to the Psychic's well-being, I was to have complet e det ermination.
Aside from this, the personnel of my investigation was unsettled
when the first sittings were held. It had been hoped to find competent
assistants for me in the academic field; but none had materialized.
Rather than postpone the undertaking indefinitely, it was decided to
go ahead with what personnel could be mustered for each seance. If
no worth-while prog ress was made, personnel didn't matter; if we found
that we were getting toward proof of anything, the summer sittings
would have afforded valuable preliminary work, and with the reopen-
ing of the univei·sities in the fall we could attack anew the problem
of getting a commission of permanent membership who would not be
146 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
afraid to attest what they might see and whose attestation might
mean something. So the project started on the basis indicated in the
first records, which I annex:
Seance of .Tune 18th, 1925: 10 Lime Street, Boston. Dicta-
phonic record, transcribed verbatim, with parenthetic elaboration
by Bird. Original dictation by Bird, with assistance of other
sitters [as indicated in text]. Circle formed at 9:17 [and seance
held in total darkness throughout]. Order of circle, clockwise:
Psychic, Richardson, Hoagland, De VVyckoff, Bird, Crandon~
Psychic again. Outside [circle, on the sofa, in its usual location
at the northeast corner of the room] : Laura Crandon, Charles M.
Toll [Instructor in Philosophy and Psychology, Amherst College;
and on a chair immediately west of sofa], Mrs. Richardson.
Damon at the dictaphone [outside the circle, seated in front of
the victrola, facing north]. Luminous controls on the Psychic's
wrists, ankles and forehead. [Continuous victrola throughout the
sitting; record " Out of the Dusk to You." D ictaphone connected
into top center socket of the lamp stand, and hence independent
of the red lamp and victrola. ]
[Apparatus present:
SAB : Electric bell-box, Scientific American model ; initially
on east end of table.
D: Luminous doughnut. Plane toric section, popularly
known as ring, of rough yellow paper, luminously painted on
one side. Thickness without paint, 0.007 inch. Initially on
floor, outside and east of cabinet.
Ll\1 : Luminous megaphone, luminously painted around both
ends. Large end 33 inches circumference, small end 7 inches
length 201;2 inches along slant surface. Initially on floor be-
side D.
T: Table, the regular Lime Street model.
C: Cabinet, the regular Lime Street model.
DB: The Dingwall model mechanical bell-box, with luminous
platform, was also on the floor with D and Ll\1, but did not
come into use and remained in sit~t throughout the seance. J
[The Psychic was clothed in robe and stockings, as usual. She
undressed and assumed this costume under supervision of lVIrs.
Richardson, as usual ; Bird attempted no control of the process.
The Psychic gives it to be understood that under cover of the
seance darkness she throws the robe more or less open, with the
theory that this facilitates the necessary projections from her body
into the theater of action. ]
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 147
I interrupt the record her e for the purpose of remarking that
this is one of the points picked out for sever e criticism by a
gentleman who has r ead the proofs with a mildly hostile attitude
toward the mediumship. H e seems to feel that this claim ought to
run throughout the history of the case if it is to be advanced at all;
and a lso that under the control supposed to be in effect at the present
seance, the action pictured would be imposs ible for . the Psychic to
execute. The latter point is certainly not a valid one, in view of
the case with which the robe <::ould be displaced by movements of the
shoulders and body. The former I think is best met by observing that
Margery and Crandon display an extreme volatility in their outlook
upon the theoretic aspect s of the mediumship. This is not so much
a matter of believing one thing today and another tomorrow; they
would, for instance, at any time in the p eriod covered by this book,
have placed importance upon conditions making t eleplasmic extrusion
easy. It is rather that for short p eriods their attention is strongly
concentrated upon this, that, or the other theoretical point. This
week they may be strongly conscious of the viewpoint that walter
is no miracle-worker, and that if you prevcn~ him from bringing his
t eleplasm into play you prevent hi1n from working. Next week, while
still believing this, it has suffered r ecession to a minor position in their
.consciousness while they are strongly conscious of some other factor-
the music, say; or the illumination; or the provision of an identical
circle for several evenings running; or the importance of placing
mediumistic sitters in certain r elations with Margery; or the necessity
for strict obedience to vValter's wishes in touching the teleplasm; etc.,
etc. Quite aside from the fact that this volatility seems characteristic
of the mediumistic disposition in the general case, I think it is rather
more suggestive of validity than of fraud; for under any theory of
fraud, it seems to me that a constant attitude and procedure in such
matters as this would be of mo L'C importance than under a theory of
genuineness. If the inconsistencies which any critic can easily find in
the conduct of any human being arc definitely aimed at an oblique
end, the subject must present these inconsistencies consistently;
whereas if they are merely evidence of his human fallibility and
inconsistency, he can be as inconsistently inconsistent as he pleases
without any inconvenience whatever. But I do not know that in con-
nection with the present point all this discuss ion is particularly worth
while; so we may get on with the r ecord:
148 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
9:19. Darkness.
9 :21. Walter's voice heard.
9:23. Red light while Crandon and De VVyckoff exchange
seats, at Walter's instruction.
9:26. In darkness, Bird and D e Wyckoff [now] exchange seats,
at vValter's instruction. [In effecting this change, De \Vyckoff
held the P sychic's hand until Bird gained possession thereof, after
which Bird verified the continuity of the hand which he now held,
with the illuminated wrist. A similar continuity of control over
Crandon was not maintained during the shift, but after taking the
hand at his right De Wyckoff Ycrified its identity as Crandon's
left. Tho necessity for continuity of control did not arise during
the preceding shift of seats because the red light was then on.
After the second shift, the circle ran, clockwise: Psychic, Richard-
son, Hoagland, Crandon, D e \Vycko1f, Bird, Psychic again. There
were no victrola stoppages and no telephone calls at any time
during the sitting; so Crandon remained, undisturbed, for the
balance of sitting, in a seat remote from the Psychic a nd controlled
by Hoagland and De Wyckoff.] ·
9 :29. [At ·walter's instruction] D was placed on T, dim side
up, without sacrificing control. [Bird put the Psychic's hand
on his knee, reached down with his free left hand and got D, dis-
posed of this, and recovered the P sychic's hand from his knee,
where it had r emained without interruption. The luminous con·-
trol lent visible certainty to this procedure, if visible certainty
were regarded as adding thereto.]
9 :30. SAD rang. D moved on T. Control OK. [For the
present sitting, this expression means specific consciousness of
integrity of every hand-link in circle, by Richardson, Hoagland,
D e VVyckoff and Bird. This definition was agreed upon. among
the sitters; and it was agreed that when Bird dictated " control
OK," this should. be a challenge, to which any sitter who could
respond in negative or dubious t erms should so r espond, and should
be recorded as so responding. As regards the luminous controls,
the absence of automatic individual responsibility made necessary
a different sort of convention. The head control was best visible
to Bird, and any failure of it to be visible to him was to be recorded;
throughout the present seance, it never failed to be visible to him
at critical moments. Nor did he at any time observe movements,
or rigidity, of this control mark, which would suggest either the
use of the head or the freeing thereof from the control. D e
Wyckoff was best placed to observe the foot controls; he was to
report on these by specifically acceding to Bird's words " Control
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 149
OK"; and such verification was not lacking on any occasion. The
hand controls were similarly best visible to Bird and Richardson,
respectively; Bird's was always visible to him when he noted " Con-
trol OK," and Richardson never failed to respond affirmatively to
this challenge. Neither of these sitters observed any suspicious
mobility or rigidity of these markers. In addition to the specific
responsibility thus allotted, there was large general visibility of
the luminous controls by other sitters during most of the seance,
and no question was raised by any sitter as to their behavior while
visible, or as to their prolonged invisibility. The agreements as
to control responsibility and control reporting implied herewith
were reached, orally, by the sitters; but it was of course not pos-
sible to put all this matter into the dictaphone, so it had to rest
until the transcription. J
[9 :30: dictation continued from aboveJ SAB was put on the
floor by Crandon at Walter's request. [It was put under Crandon's
chair-see 9 :40 dictation; and this was doneJ under continued
control [of Crandon's hands ·by those next him, through his wristsJ.
9:31. D moved on T. X (Walter's "terminal") silhouetted
against D. [Partly simultaneously with this and partly after D
carne to rest] T moved sharply back and forth [-so sharply that
Bird inquired whether any sitter were responsible. All disclaimed
it specifically]. D moved to edge of T, then fell to floor. D was
picked up by Bird [and restored to place on T] without sacrifice
of control [the Psychic's hand being deposited temporarily on his
knee, as previouslyJ.
9 :33. D was dragged to the edge of T by a visibly silhouetted
X, picked up, waved about over T, and fell to the floor on the side
ofT remote from the Psychic. [It was recovered andJ replaced on
T by Hoagland. All controls OK throughout this action.
9:34. D moved about T, then was shoved off the edge upon
the floor; visibly silhouetted X. D [was hereJ left [momentarily]
on the floor, bright side up; then Bird picked it up without sacri-
ficing control [Psychic's hand on his knee, as beforeJ, and placed
it on T, dim side up.
9 :35. D moved about T; visibly silhouetted X. Walter asked
for coin [hereinafter indicated by QJ. Bird, :Pe w·yckoff's hand
on his knee during interval, [got half dollar from pocket and1
placed half dollar on table, in the hole of the D . D moved back
and forth, and Q was [distinctlyJ heard by Bird, scraping on T;
then was heard by all dropping on T. [This act was] repeated.
All controls OK. Rapping on T, presumably by Q. [Whether
the dropping and rapping of Q, as well as its dragging, was accom-
150 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
panied by motion of D, is not recorded; and the question was not
raised until several days afterwards, when recollection of sitters
could not be relied on with certainty.]
9 :36. D was turned bright side up [by Walter's direction],
and Hoagland's hand placed over it. [Crandon's hand, Hoag-
land reports subsequently, remained under control by continuous
contact with Hoagland's upper arm.J An attempt was apparently
made to put Q in Hoagland's hand [which lay, cupped, palm up,
over D] ; Q struck the side of the hand and rolled off T, Hoagland's
hand being struck by X . [Speaking in terms of previous experience,
De Wyckoff or Crandon used the word "thrown" to describe the
attempt to put Q in hand; the contact by X would not constitute
100 per cent denial of this.] Another touch [reported by Hoag-
land], this time on his thumb; by request. Hoagland's hand
removed from D [on what suggestion was not recorded]; and a
fresh coin [half dollar again] was placed on T by De Wyckoff
[in view of temporary loss of the first coin. The identity of
De Wyckoff's hand was verified by Hoagland, on regaining control,
through continuous contact between De Wyckoff's arm and Hoag-
land's hand during interval.]
9 :37. Hoagland put his hand on D again [control of Crandon
being maintained as during the 9 :36 dictation]. Walter dropped
Q so that it rested on Hoagland's hand, X touching Hoagland's
finger-tips, apparently from the direction of Bird. All controls
OK. X apparently passed back and forth above Hoagland's hand,
eclipsing [intermittently] those portions of D otherwise visible,
and touching Hoagland's hand repeatedly. Hoagland's hand was
withdrawn [at what suggestion not recorded; and circular hand-
control was reestablishedJ.
9 :39. X was seen momentarily by Bird against D, which began
to curl up. [After perhaps five seconds of progressive curling,
the upstanding edge was approximately vertical, with the opposite
side still flat on T; D then left T with the curiously smooth motion
customarily described by Margery's sitters as "swimming"; and]
D floated in air at the level of Bird's eyes. R epetition of this
[was given, with D floating largelyJ edgewise; [i.e., in air ver-
tically]. X was seen in silhouette as though projecting through
hole in D . All controls OK.
9 :40. SAB rings on floor under Crandon's chair. Foot con-
trol of Crandon [had not ex isted up to this point; it was at once]
established by Hoagland and De w·yckoff. The degree of certainty
that each had Crandon's foot, and each a different foot, would
seem rather high, in view of the small personnel and wide spacing
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT : SEANCES OF J UNE, 1925 151
of the circle.] SAB continues to ring [after establishment of
control over Crandon's feet; it rings] again and again and again
violently. Walter said this was done by John.
9:41. Din motion on T. A scraping sound on T accompanying
this [was heard by all; X, Q, or what?]. Richardson was punched
in the chest; Hoagland was touched on the right leg ; SAB rings
freely, Bird is touched on the right ankle; SAB rings again. All
controls OK, including control of Crandon's feet. [The action here
was the fastest and most furious that Bird has experienced with
this mediumship. It was remarkably long-sustained for activity
of such high pitch. Bird is inclined to think there was simultaneity
between SAB ringing and touching of Hoagland or himself, or
both; but certainty was impossible. The action was so rapid that,
even in the most abbreviat ed t erms, there was considerable diffi-
culty getting it all into the dictaphone.J
9 :42. Hoagland's nose was placed in the hole of D, on T; D
[being] bright side up [ and Hoagland leaning forward with his
head on T]. Walter then felt about on [the exposed top and
back of] Hoagland's head, and pulled his hair; [during this1
X eclipsed D intermittently from Bird [in addition to the partial
eclipse effected by Hoagland's head]. The hair-pulling continued
[by request of sitters] vigorously, eliciting pain sensation. [Pre-
sumably X is] now feeling [and fumbling] at Hoagland's knee.
SAB rings. Slight motion of D on T. [There was excellent con-
centration of activity here, but nothing equal to that of the pre-
ceding paragraph.]
9 :45. [This interval was bridged by vValter's humorous con-
versation, which was very free and very general; and which so
successfully filled the gaps between physical episodes as to have
led to the impression, taken in conjunction with the physical
phenomena, of continuous contact with and action by Walter from
9 :29 to 10:02.] D was removed and LM was placed horizontally
on T, sman end toward Bird. Hand control of the Psychic [was
maintained by placing her hand] on Bird's knee while Bird did
this. LM rolls back and forth, then rotates on its vertical axis
[through an angle of some 135 degrees. LM rises slowly and
smoothly in the air for this act , with " swimming" effect noted
above; and itJ floats in air toward Crandon and De Wyckoff.
D e Wyckoff is touched on his right hand by LM, which then goes
higher, slightly above Bird's head, and " swims " about [very
smoothly] in a complicated three-dimensional path. LM dances
[in air following the above motion and without any intermission of
r est]. LM touches Bird's hand [in similar continuity with the
152 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
preceding movements], crashes on toT, a nd into Hoagland's lap.
Walter r ecovers it thence, X striking Hoagland's thumb. LM is
[then] in ai1', floating freely and continuously for [a p eriod recorded
at the time by Bird as] about a minute ; [but in r etrospect, Bird
feels that the estimat e was influenced in some degree by the activity
preceding the cr ash into Hoagland's lap , and that the duration of
one minute is considerably too long for the action subsequent to·
this crash, but far too short fo r the total action befon and after
the crash. Bird also feels that this account, while as good as could
be expect ed by any reporting technl.que short of motion-picture
photogr aphy, dist inctly fails t o do justice to the spectacular char-
act er of the megaphone performance. T his, of course, is not neces-
sarily a loss.] L M r eplaced on T [by ·walter, at the conclusion
of this period of activity ]. Contr ol OK throughout a ction.
9:47. D was r eplaced on T, bright side up, at W alter's r equest
[this was done by Bird, without sacrifi ce of any control]. D e
Wyckoff's hand was placed [palm up ] on D by [Walter's]
r equest. Q [of the whereabouts of which since it last figured in
the dictation no sitter had knowledgel r olled into De W yckoff's
hand; then r olled out again [of itself] , because of position of
palm. There was no loss of control anywher e. [during this act ;
sp ecific reports were r ender ed to this eiTect, in accord with the
convention agreed upon, but no r eport was made indicating the
t echnique of Crandon-De vVyckoff control while D e Wyckoff's
hand was on T].
9 :48. _
W alter r equest ed the r emoval of D. [This was done by
Bird, in the usual fashion without sacrificing any control.]
9 :49. LM is lifted and float ed freely , touching hands of Bird
and Hoagland. It continues to float , and to r ap on T. It comes
to r est on the end of T . [A few words of the r ecord were
her e lost, when it broke as Bird tried to force it far enough on to
the spindle to p ermit transcription of the extreme end. The trans-
cribed r ecord therefore passes to the second cylinder, with omission
of this fragment. T he removal of the first cylinder and the placing
of the second one on the machine was effected by D amon in the
dark; and Walter obligingly slowed up his t empo until Damon was
ready to resume his t aking of Bird's dict ation.]
9:51. Q fell [ audibly upon T; no indication of whence it came
or height of fall].
9 :52. SAB r ang. All controls OK, including control of
Crandon's feet. SAB continues to ring, accompanied by inter-
mittent sounds of- snapping of the spring against the contact
board. [This sentence edited on transcription, to make the sense
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 153
clearer.J SAB rings again, and [for some timeJ continues to
ring [intermittently], and to give sound of spring vibration with-
out ringing. [This sound can be produced by violent depression·of
the contact board, following which the spring reacts so strongly
as to kick the board high in air and free from the spring, which
then vibrates until the board falls, audibly, against it again. It
can of course, also be produced by direct manipulation of the
spring, treating this like a tuning-fork, while the board is deliber-
ately held free of the spring. J SAB all this time was under Cran-
don's chair; all controls OK, including control of Crandon's feet.
9 :54. LM was removed from T [by Bird, the Psychic's hand
on his kneeJ. De \Vycko:ff was directed [by \Valter] to pick up
SAB.· [He had some difficulty finding it, and more in getting it
clear of the legs and rungs of Crandon's chair. J Before he had it
ofT the floor [but not until after he had got hold of it and after
he had moved it and struck it laterally against chair legs, etc.],
it was ringing; and it kept on ri11ging while being lifted to a place
on De Wyckoff's knee, [where it] continued to ring. [During
this action D e ~ryckoff required both hands and was out of con-
trol]:, Hoagland [reached over across Crandon, and during
the time when De \i
Vyckoff was otherwise engaged he was] in
control of Crandon's left hand along with his right; Crandon
foot control [during the interval] as usual. [No attempt was
made to maintain control between Bird and De Wyckoff here.
The state of the Richardson-Hoagland-Crandon control was not
reported as J Hoagland now slowly put SAB from De Wyckoff's
knee to T. All controls were then restored and reported OK.
9 :55. SAB rings, on the end of T near Bird. All controls
OK. Bird reports [an unusually clean-cut observation of] free
motion by Psychic's head-band immediately after this ringing.
[The height and lateral range of the' moving spot of light seen
by Bird were clearly such as to be susceptible to no other inter-
pTetation than that of motion by her head or her upraised hand.
Bird made specific verification of his control of the Psychic's right
hand, and at his request Richardson did the same at her left. We
therefore have the strongest evidence that the head-band was m
its proper place at this time.]
9 :56. Hoagland picks up SAB [at Walter's instruction] ; it
rings as he lifts it, and also gives noise of vibrating spring, with-
out ringing. The ringing was accompanied by a vicible spark.3
Hoagland here [reported that he] manipulated SAB without
3M. M., p. 288.
154 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
sacrificing control [but did not report how]. SAB rmgs agam
[presumably on T]. With the Psychic's hand on his knee, Bird
[his own hands of course out of control, as always when he was
called upon to use them for manipulation of the apparatus] picks
up SAB in two hands, moves it very freely in all directions [up
and down, sidewise, out and back, and in combination of these
directions, in each instance as far as he could go without leaving
his seat, and always as rapidly as he could conveniently go; mak-
ing, in fact, every effort to induce ringing through motion by
box: but] with no ringing and no audible vibration of the spring.
Hoagland is touched [no indication whether b.y X or by material
object]. Bird [his test of the bell's failure to ring spontaneously
through mere motion of box completed J replaces SAB on T ;
SAB [immediately] rings.
[Time entries here were omitted for an unusually long interval,
through desperate pressure of other dictation. It was all Bird
and Damon could possibly do to keep pace with the physical facts
of the seance.]
Bird puts SAB in the air again [in his two hands as before];
and [he] feels distinctly the pressure as Walter rings it, with
visible spark. [This entire experience] is repeated. Three rings
[are now] given to Bird's order, ·with a visible spark each time,
[and with a tendency of the board not to maintain contact with
absolute continuity during the entire duration of each peal. Bird
was now carrying the box in one hand; and] each time [the bell
rang, it did so] with pressure [on the box from Walter] sufficient
to depress [through several inchesJ Bird's hand carrying the box.
[Bird had regained control of the Psychic's right hand, and had
verified the identity of this hand, immediately prior to responding
to vValter's request that he indicate how many rings he wished
from SAB. J All controls OK [throughout period of ringing by
SAB under Bird's manipulation]. The identity of [De Wyck-
off's] hand was verified by Bird on regaining control [thereof] by
direct hand-clasp; [and he had been continuously conscious of
its presence on his knee during ringing periodJ. SAB was on a
level with the lower part of Bird's face while being rung [as he
held it in air. H e held it as nearly motionless as possible, but this
turned out to be of no particular pertinence, in view of his
observations of pressure during the ringing of SAB].
10 :02. [After a brief pause] \iValter announces no more phe-
nomena tonight. Some conversation with Walter [almost if not
entirely revolving about subsequent plans of Bird and Hoagland
groups] ; after which:
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 155
10:06. Walter said "Good night."
The distance from the Psychic's right shoulder to the approx-
imate position of SAB as it rang on the floor under Crandon's
chair was measured immediately after the restoration of light, and
found to be 64 inches. In addition, there were obstructions· to
normal access in. the table, and in De VVyckoff's leg, controlling
Crandon's foot from a position in front of SAB. [But any alle-
gation against the SAB ringing from this position would revolve
about confederacy from the far side of the circle.]
Throughout the seance the dictaphone worked perfectly. At nine
o'clock the listening side had been tried ar..d found in order. But when
Damon tried to verify that he had made an audible record, tlte machine
would not rotate; following which, even the dictating side was inopera-
tive. By substituting a lamp for the machine it was verified that cur-
lent was present and the switch clo!>ed; but the motor of the dictaphone
would not rotate. Going to Lime Street next morning, I found
the dictaphone wholly operative; as soon as I closed all the switches
I was able to transcribe the entire record without difficulty.
Largely because of the suggestion which this offered of parallelism
with the irregularities of the victrola which had been recorded in the
past,4
no sitter was quite prepared to assign this dictaphone irregu-
larity to natural causes, without further discussion. It persisted and
got worse during the next day, so that at the seance of the 19th a
complete record was not obtained. On the 19th, Walter disclaimed
any com)ection with the phenomenon, which was in fact ultimately
traced to a defective motor, which got hot enough after running for
an hour or so to develop an internal resistance sufficient to prevent the
passage of current.
In addition to being placed before all sitters for suggestion and
approval, the record of this sitting was at a somewhat later date dis-
played to Code, while I was still on good terms with him, in order that
he might have opportunity to check it against his theories of fraud.
i\mong the comments which he makes, in writing, I find the statement:
" Note that Walter disclaimed the bell-ringing under Crandon's chair."
The record does not justify this; and it is certainly snmething which
T would not omit from the record, if it had happened. Code's memo-
randum is not dated; but my recollection is that it was made en route
to or in Lily Dale, in the latter part of August. Doubtless Hoagland
4 M. M., Chapter XL.
156 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
l1ad told him that \iValter had disclaimed the interference with the
orderly operation of the dictaphone, and Code had unconsciously
transferred this to something to which he would rather apply it. Or
'iValter's statement at the top of p. 151 may have been ineptly taken
as adenial of all supernormality.
Seance of June 19th, 1925 : 10 Lime Street, Boston. Dicto-
phonic record, transcribed verbatim, with parenthetic elaboration
by Bird. Original dictation by Bird, with assistance of other
sitters [as indicated in text].
Circle formed at 9 :07 [and seance held in total darkness
throughout]. Order of circle, clockwise : P sychic, Richardson,
L aura Crandon, Hoagland, De vVyckoif, Bird, Crandon, P sychic
again. Damon at the dictaphone [seated on the sofa in the north-
east corner of the room, facing the circle]. Luminous controls on
the P sychic's wrists, ankles and forehead. [Continuous victrola :
record " Out of the Dusk to You." Dictaphone connected as pre-
vious night, but by a longer cord·, enabling Damon to take the
position noted. Psychic clothed in bathrobe and stockings only,
under her own supervision and responsibility. Bird requested the
place at Psychic's right to which Walter had moved him the
night be£ore. Crandon refused to grant this unless on Walter's
motion, which was not made.] Psychic's weight immediately
before seance [in seance costume]' 140 pounds.
[Apparatus present:
SAB, D: Scientific American bell-box and luminous dough-
nut, as on 19th. SAB initially on St (see below); D initially
on floor at east of cabinet.
T, C; T able, Cabinet: regular Lime Street models.
St: Small platform scales, registering up to 24 pounds on
circular dial with needle. The needle and the 24 integral grad-
uations on the dial were marked with luminous paint, even
pounds receiving long strokes and odd short ones. It was easy
to read scale with good accuracy in dark. Net weight of St
unit, three pounds. Its sensitivity in the region adjacent to
ten pounds (the weight of the SAB unit) was not all that might
have been desired; all that could be said was that with the SAB
unit on the pan of St unit, the minimum pressure necessary to
ring the bell would disturb the needle of the scales. Initially
on T, slightly east of center, and carrying SAB.
U: Ordinary laboratory stand and clamp, supporting in
vertical position a glass U-t~be, %, inch bore and 3 inches, plus,
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 157
long in each arm. The base plate, the top of the metal upright,
and the top of each arm of the tube carried spots of luminous
paint; the apparatus could not be displaced or dismantled
without instant detection. In the bottom of the U-tube, a
luminous-painted marble; it was the hope that Walter would
displace this vertically without displacement of the U appa-
ratus as a whole. Initially on T, at northeast corner.
DM: Dark megaphone, smaller size, 11 inches long slant
height, 22 inches circumference, large end. Initially on the floor
at the east of the cabinet, as almost always in Margery seances.]
9 :10. Walter voice heard. Walter called attention to the
Jact that Hoagland's luminous watch was visible through his pocket,
.and requested that it be turned around. [There was no super-
normal cognition here. Walter was merely the first to note normal
'Visibility.]
9:15. 'iValter displayed knowh,dge of the fact [confirmed by
.Hoagland] that Hoagland's face was unusually serious at the
moment. [Here we have apparent supernormal cognition, recalling
.an identical experience by Bird months before. The theory has
.
been hazarded, and apparently act:epted by 'iValter, that he is more
.apt to sense the sitter's movements or expressions corresponding·to
a state of mind, than those of purely physical context.]
9:18. SAB rang. It gave a prolong~d peal; the scales trav-
dled from the normal reading of 10 pounds plus clear up to the
24-pound limit [striking the top with a bang]. A moment later
this maximum travel of the St pointer occurs again, [but] without
ringing of SAB. Control OK [defined for this night below; see
.dictation for 9:21]. sl again travels to its limit without ringing
SAB. Controls OK here, plus extra control by Bird, across Cran-
.don, of the P sychic's right hand; [for definition and discussion,
.see dictation for 9 :21. The convention that " Control OK" for
the present evening includes this extra hand control was not in
effect until 9 :21; hence this extra control is here specifically men-
tioned, and in the episode immediately preceding it was absent.J
·SAB rings again, pointer going to limit [of travel].
9:20. Walter instructs that S1 be turned around. [The dial
·had been facing Crandon and Bird, so that only they could see it.
ln its new position, the entire S1 unit, with the SAB unit on it, was
rotated counter-clockwise through an angle somewhere between 45
.a nd 90 degrees,] so that the other sitters could [now] see it work.
9 :21. SAB rang in its new position, the scales travelling to
their limit. Control OK, with extra control by Bird of the Psy-
158 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
chic's right [and Crandon's left] hand. [It is here agreed that]
for tonight " Control OK " includes: normal hand contact all
around the circle; foot control all around save with respect to the
Psychic's two feet and the two [one of Richardson and one of
Crandon] immediately adjoining her at either side; visibility of
the luminous controls on the Psychic's two wrists, two ankles and
forehead, [responsibility for this visibility being approximately as
on preceding night, with Crandon substituted for Bird so far as
constant observation of the right wrist is concerned]; and control
by Bird, reaching across Crandon, of the Psychic's right hand and
Crandon's left [in addition to his normal control of Crandon's right.
The forehead control is well visible to Bird, so Crandon does not
have to take this over. The detailed convention for challenge of
the control by Bird at critical instants, and for response by the
sitters, was as on the preceding night. For the additional control
of the Psychic-Crandon hand-junction, Bird's left hand, carrying
Crandon's right with it, is brought across in front of Crandon to a
position of contact with the clasped hands between Crandon and the
Psychic. Bird either grasps one of these hands, and lets the other
two contact his from above and below respectively, or else slips
Crandon's right up to his wrist, leaving his own left free to grasp
the clasped hands of Crandon and the Psychic. In either event, he
always satisfies himself that both these hands are attached to
appropriate wrists and arms, or that both are living and mobile
hands. Inasmuch as there is no free living hand in the room to be
used in substitution, the second procedure is as valid as the first;
and only after putting one or the other of these procedures into
effect does Bird announce the extra control, or announce " Control
OK" when this announcement includes the extra control. I• allow-
ing the announcement of " Control OK,"] SAB rings again with
registration of the full 24-pound limit.
9 :22. Walter stated that he would now ring SAB without
exerting this maximum pressure. SAB [at once] gave a short
peal, sl reading increasing less than half a pound.
9 :23. Registration of four-pound pressure when SAB rang
[i.e., S1 reading increased four pounds]. vValter called attention
to the fact that SAB was in danger of falling off the pan of S1.
[It was] verified by Bird [that this was the case] and [SAB was]
restored to central position on pan. [Control of the Psychic and
Crandon involving their three hands unbroken during this; control
of De Wyckoff continued during the interval, his hand being placed
on Bird's knee while Bird's right hand, unaided, adjusted SAB
on sl.]
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 159
9 :24. Crandon reports a touch on his leg. Bird gets this,
repeated three times, on his left leg. Control OK.
9 :25. SAB rings, giving registration of the full 24-pound
limit; then immediately again giving an increase of barely one
pound over the normal weight of SAB.
9:26. SAB rings twice [in rapid successionJ, the first time
with minimum increase in scale reading, the second with maximum.
[vValter at one stage of the conversation stated that he could press
far harder than the 24 pounds to which the present readings were
limited; and it was the distinct opinion of all sitters that the limit
readings, on this evening, often corresponded to pressures materi-
ally higher than 24 pounds. See the first interpolation under
9:18, e.g. J Walter seized the U assembly and waved it about. At
Walter's direction, Bird placed SAB on the floor between De
Wyckoff and Hoagland. [Bird's hands were out of control during
this operation; Crandon's right and De Wyckoff's left hands were
on Bird's knees; the Crandon-Psychic link was without external
control. J While Bird was thus disposing of SAB, the scales [freed
of all normal load and hence able to show no normal reading above
zero J stood momentarily at 2 pounds, shot around to 24, then
oscillated rapidly between 2 and 10, approximately.
9 :28. Scales pointer [continues to dance wildly J all over the
dial, while Walter whistles in time with its action. Control OK,
including additional control of Crandon's head on Bird's upper arm.
The scales again oscillate violently, approximately between 2 and
16 pounds.
9 :30. A violent blow on the pan of S1, twice repeated. The
pointer [thenJ stands motionless at 4:Y
2 pounds, presumably out of
order. [This presumption is verified when] Walter strikes repeated
violent blows upon the pan without affecting the pointer; then
[himself] turns scales around to face Richardson. S1 [unit entire
is nowJ waved in air, the motion being mainly up and clown; then
dropped [not laid] on Tat Crandon's (east) encl. [It is thought
that this may be the heaviest object yet levitated freely by Walter,
as distinguished from mere pushing about or mauling, as of cabinet,
table, etc. J
9 :31. S1 again goes in air, above Bird's head, returning to T.
[The record fails to specify control OK; the judgment of the sit-
ters when subsequently consulted was that this was wholly a matter
of Bird's having no opportunity to interrogate them; all remem-
bered the episode and all were under the impression that they had
been conscious of continuity of controls. If this is correct, the
incident is an outstanding one by virtue of the combined horizontal
160 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
and vertical range, and the weight of levitated object.] Several
gentle blows upon . . . [the record is here undecipherable, and
no sitter recollects the apparent locus of the blows. The scale pan
seems to present the greatest probability. The failure to remember
here is of considerable negative weight in connection with the pre-
ceding episode and the parenthetical remarks thereon.]
At this point it is again necessary to yield the floor to the adverse
critic who has read the proofs. He feels that the situation here existing
lends a very strong presumption that the record usually covers a
large degree of unconscious absence of observation by the sitters. I
would point out however that the failure to remember is of the next
day, and obviously cannot affect the credibility or even the complete-
ness of the actual dictation. Further, it has to do with a point which
was completely covered by the running dictation, and which no sitter
could therefore anticipate being called upon to remember next day.
Accordingly, it seems to me to reflect little if any discredit upon the
observations and record, save as indicated in the interpolated remark.
Indeed, the very reason we make seance records during a seance· is
because we know that in this.way we escape the necessity for trying
to remember such minor points as this.
9 :32. With Bird maintaining control of right hands of the
Psychic and Crandon [Crandon's left being momentarily free for
the purpose indicated], D was placed [by Crandon] on the pan of
81 [at Walter's request], bright side up. As Crandon thus placed
D on the pan, Walter announced that he had [possession of] part
of the scales. [No sitter had yet missed anything from the 81
assembly.] X was silhouetted against D, and the luminous needle
from 81 [was then] laid down [by Walter] over D. [Walter stated
that he had recovered the needle from the floor behind Bird's chair;
this would imply that it had dropped qff during the levitation of
9:31.] Hoagland's hand was laid over D [at Walter's request,
and without sacrificing control, the adjacent hand going with it].
vValter stroked Hoagland's hand [presumably with X], then jog-
gled 81 up and down [under the cupped hand and the D]. Walter
put something [material momentarilyJ in [or onJ Hoagland's
hand-apparently the U apparatus. [The dictated notes do not
indicate any reason why it was necessary to indulge in speculation
about the whereabouts of an object so liberally marked, and recol-
lection of the sitters is equally at fault.]
9:34. DM [presumably] heard scraping on floor; [it was then]
lifted and dropped [exact locus not indicatedJ; all controls OK.
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 161
At this point, about three-quarters through the first record, the
d.ictaphone became inoperative. It continued to rotate and to advance,
so that Damon, unaware of anything wrong, continued talking into
the receiver; and it in due time came to the end of the record. But
it made no impress upon the wax. VVhen the record came to an end,
and after Damon had placed the second record on the carriage, either
the motor or the clutch failed to go into effect again, so that Damon
now observed the machine's inoperativeness. Walter at one stage of
the seance denied having caused the irregularity at the end of the
preceding session. He stated that the wrong chain (referring pre-
sumably to the pull-switches on the lamp-stand) had been pulled. This
it was difficult to credit, since all hands had worked over the machine
on the preceding night. Code, however, reports to me: " Subsequent
to Damon's failure to read record, I called on the Crandons with Damon
and tested the dictaphone with Damon, discovering that Damon did not
understand some necessary function of the machine." The indefinite-
ness of this statement is doubtless due (see page 155) to the time
which elapsed between the observation and the report. It is a fact that
at the end of the present seance, after light was given, Damon worked
for some time over the machine, but could not make it go; and that I
then went to it after a further interval of some five or ten minutes, and
made it run at a touch of the switch, without any trouble at all. It
is also a fact that after this machine was returned to New York, it
was found to be liable to erratic stoppage after running for any
considerable time; see page 155.
The above paragraph was compiled, in its present form, some weeks
after the seance. During the period when it was supposed, errone-
ously, that a record was being produced, seance action was intense.
De Wyckoff, Laura Crandon and the Psychic collaborated with me,
next morning, in listing the episodes of this period. The balance of the
record for this date consists of this listing, as edited by me on that
same day, and with no subsequent alteration. Inasmuch as this was
the only means of obtaining a record after the failure of the dictaphone,
the brackets are omitted from the moment when the failure occurred.
It is believed that the following account is substantially complete. I
relied upon the list and upon the memories of the othel' sitters only for
the episodes by title; for the details I was able in every instance to fall
back upon vivid recollection of the terms of my lost dictation of the
preceding evening. No attempt is here made to preserve the sequence
of events.
162 THE MARGERY l\1EDIUMSHIP
Lu1ninous needle fTo7n 81: This moved about freely on T, and
dropped to the floor and was recovered by Walter at least once and
probably several times. It was inserted in the end of the U-tube
as though in an attempt to move the marble with it, but it was not
nearly long enough for this. A long and complicated series of
manipulations occurred, similar to the " scientific research," so
called by vValter.5
The needle would appear in air, before and
close to the face of a sitter, usually Bird or Hoagland; this sitter
would so report; the needle would then be withdrawn with extreme
rapidity and brought to a similar position with reference to another
sitter. The transfer was always visible, over a definite path in the
room;6
but the rapidity and accuracy of execution were extreme.7
DM: More or less action throughout, which cannot be recalled
in any great detail. One important episode consisted of a tug-of-
war between Hoagland and Walter. Hoagland hung on more suc-
cessfully than is usual in these affrays; but Walter, as usual,
finally twisted rather than pulled DM out of his grasp. Hoagland
estimated the force exerted here as 30-40 pounds, at least. In
the :final jerk out of his grasp, DM flew in the direction of the space
between Bird and Crandon. At the moment when the dictaphone
stoppage was discovered, the stage had just been set for an appar-
ent tug-of-war with Bird, but "\Valter suspended the seance on
Damon's announcement of the inoperative dictaphone.
U: Picked up bodily many times and waved in air; numerous
sitters touched with this, as with DM; t aken into cabinet or outside
cabinet, at Psychic's right, and rapped smartly against cabinet
walls; :finally turned upside down, spilling marble out on floor. \iVe
have here an excellent example of \iValter's refusal to abide by rules
which we may make governing what he is to do and how he is to do
it. The apparatus was restored to initial position on T and there
found at the end of the seance, minus the marble, which was recovered
from the floor next day.
D: Extreme freedom of motion, horizontally and in tilting
sense, as it lay on T or in pan of S1, with or without Hoagland's
hand over or on it, and with or without luminous needle on it. Much
of this occurred with visible silhouetting; and on one such occasion
Bird saw distinctly an outline as of claw, the effect being quite that
of the superfluous claw part way up a dog's leg, or the long, claw-
like :finger-nails affected by some persons. A long and elaborate
episode occurred in the space between T, Bird and De Wyckoff,
5 M. M., pp. 199-200.
6 Excluding any thought of a.pports, four-dimensional work, etc.-J. M. B.
7 M. M., pp. 212-214.
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 163
quite inaccessible for normal activity by Psychic or Crandon. D
moved up and down repeatedly, from a position sometimes appar-
ently on the floor, sometimes apparently on SAB beside De Wyck-
off, to a position in the air level with the top of T. In vertical
travel, D usually stood more or less on edge; at rest, usually hori-
zontal, though sometimes on edge or curled. Repeatedly as it
descended on or near SAB the latter would ring. The visual im-
pression of course was that D had been used to ring SAB; but D
is not stiff enough for this, so it can apparently only have been
carried in the same X employed to depress the SAB contact. With
the possible exception of the needle manipulation, this elaborate
motion of D was the most brilliant of the unrecorded portion of the
seance. The distance from the Psychic's right shoulder to the
Tegion in which it occurred was found to be about 60 inches.
SAB: Rung early in the " lost " portion of the seance, inde-
pendently of D. \Valter announced that the spring needed adjust- ·
ment. Bird on investigation in the dark was inclined to agree with
him that while the bell rang as usual, the board did not return to
position with its usual snappiness, indicating need for spring
adjustment. A little later ·walter stated that he had thrown the
contact board clear over backward, wide open and free of the
spring; Bird and Hoagland investigated in the dark and found this
·correct.
Cabinet: Suffered numerous violent shocks at one stage. Bird
is inclined to think it was shaken without material displacement or
deformation; the Psychic next morning expressed feeling that it
had closed in on her more or less.
Experiment immediately after the seance indicated that the
Psychic could not, with her feet, reach SAB in its place near De
Wyckoff.
At one point (Bird believes while DM was being moved about
near the floor and occasionally ioucl1ing him) Bird and Crandon
reported what, in Bird's case at least, certainly was not contact by
any material object known to be present. This came under Bird's
left knee, and was sufficiently vigorous to give a definite impression
through his clothing. Bird can best describe it as similar to a
large, stiff, rough brush. As usual, this is merely the nearest one
can come to a description in t erms of known objects, and is not to
be taken as completely descriptive. This particular contact was
the most difficult to characterize that Bird had at this date
experienced through this mediumship.
At the end of the sitting the Psychic registered 143 pounds on
the same scales used initially. Bird suspects error in making the
164 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
initial reading; this the Psychic strongly doubts. 'Valter sug-
gests that she stood off-center on the scales first time; and in fact
140 pounds is the lightest weight ever got for her to this date by
Bird, supporting one or the other of these assumptions.
There was frequent verification and reporting of " Controls
OK " during the " lost " portion of the sitting, but of course these
reports cannot now be directly associated with the accornpanying
phenomena. Bird feels that there was no pertinent lapse in control.
Seance of June 20th, 1925; 10 Lime Street, Boston, Mass.
The old dictaphone was now replaced by a new instrument, received'
only this day from the manufacturers. There were in the house,
as a measure of economy and of safety against shortage, several
cylinders carrying a few turns of record from old Harvard sittings;
and it was agreed to use up one of these first. Damon employed the
listening side of the machine to verify that he was starting beyond
the point where the previous dictation stopped. It is suspected
that he forgot to turn the machine back to the talking side; for
though the first record was fed properly through to its end, it
turned out to be totally blank. The second record was OK. The
discovery of deficient recording was not made until the afternoon
of the 22nd, when Bird had his first opportunity to transcribe the
records. It was then too late to supplement the missing portion
.of the record from memory as successfully as had been done for the
sitting of the 19th. The account of the starting arrangements and
the apparatus present is of course complete; following that, we
have, however, only a very sketchy outline of the first portion of
the seance action. In view of the character of the record, brackets
are omitted from the present text until the dictated portion is
reached. No material alteration has been made in the text for
the earlier portion, as prepared on June 22nd, 192!5.
Circle formed at 9 :35, the delay being caused by a thunder-
storm; and seance held in total darkness. Order of circle, clock-
wise: Psychic, Richardson, Code, Hoagland, De Wyckoff, Bird,
Crandon, Psychic again. Damon at the dictaphone, outside the
circle on the sofa as on the 19th. Also on this sofa were Laura
Crandon and Mrs. Richardson. Luminous controls of Psychic's
wrists, ankles and forehead. Continuous victrola : record " Out
of the Dusk to You." Psychic clothed in robe ai:~d slippers (not
stockings) only, under Mrs. Richardson's supervision and responsi-
bility. Nothing was said about the change from stockings to slip-
pers, or the reason therefo.r; it was doubtless a reflection of the
procedure used at the Harvard sittings, now going on.
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 165
Apparatus present:
S2: Larger and heavier platform scales than those of pre-
ceding evening; it was, in fact, Margery's bath-room scales, of
very sturdy construction and giving readings up to 200 pounds.
The dial is horizontal, behind the pan, rather than vertical, in
front of it, as was the case with the postal scales (S1) used on
the 19th. The needle was marked with luminous paint, and
10-pound multiples were similarly marked around the dial, the
even 50's being gi'!"en longer strokes to aid in rapid reading.
The S2 unit was initially on the east end of the table.
T, C: The usual Lime Street seance table and cabinet.
SAB: Scientific American electrical bell-box; initially m
pan of S2.
DB: Brass dinner-bell, ordinary clapper type, suspended
from the ceiling light-fixture, and hence located, in a horizontal
sense, at the center of the room, somewhat beyond the north-
west comer of T. It hung very high. Initially there was
attached to it a short cord, at the end of which, high enough
to be out of reach of any person present while seated, there
was tied:
CP: Clothespin carrying a daub of luminous paint. After
Walter spoke, he expressed dissatisfaction with his " power''
for the evening, and had red light turned on while Crandon
lengthened the cord and lowered CP. This process was gone
through with a third time before VValter indicated ability to
reach CP; and in this way some ten minutes of the sitting was
used up, with no action.
D: Luminous doughnut. Initially outside cabinet (east
side), on floor as usual.
Ll\1, DM: Luminous and dark megaphones, former as on
the 18th, and latter as on 19th. On floor, east of cabinet,
initially.
After CP was adjusted to Walter's satisfaction, phenomena
began. SAB rang several times on S2, with varying increases in
dial readings, from a vanishing minimum to something like 30
pounds. On this S2, with its coarser graduation and heavier action,
it is possible to ring the bell by pressure on the contact board with-
out producing any visible reaction by the needle. It is believed
that Walter did this at least once, but recollection is not positive.
Walter ordered SAB removed, and proceeded to work with the
bare S2. For some time he delivered pressure or blows, at his pleas-
ure, with varying registration from zero to 40 pounds. Bird is
166 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
under the impression that once or twice a powerful blow was
delivered without any effect upon the needle, indicating delivery
of the blow on the frame rather than on the pan. s2 was t ilted
freely in all directions, with the ostensible purpose of allowing all
sitters better opportunity to read the dials. Then over a con-
siderable period of time t11ere occurred lifting of the s2 unit from
T and dropping back, sometimes one side or one corner only
leaving T, sometimes the entire unit ; likewise with this there was
mingled a certain amount of free levitation in the air. The net
weight of the s2 outfit is about 20 pounds; it is to date unques-
tionably the heaviest obj ect which has been lifted clearly and
cleanly into the air in any of Margery's seances. vVhether more
force is required for its levitation than for the cabinet disruptions,
etc., of 1924, would be a matter of conjecture; the answer would
probably be a negative.
For a long time VValter played in one way or another with
CP, not alone pulling it to ring DB, but also waving CP freely
in air without attention to the bell. At one stage he had Hoag-
land take CP in his hand; and while he was so holding it, Hoag-
land reported that it was pulled and j erked up and down as well
as sideways. \Vith visible motion of CP as the apparent means,
\Valter rang DB in time with his whistling.
Considerable use was made of LM, and a tug-of-war with Hoag-
land was unusually good. Hoagland reported that as he
struggled to hold LM with both hands, it was forced up and down,
back and forth, and across, in all three dimensions of space,
apparently at Walter's will.
In ringing SAB, which he did with considerable freedom, Walter
employed the telegraph code, and twice he attempted to ring the
letter of which a sitter was thinking. One of these experiments,
(Hoagland collaborating) was completely successful, without
complication or qualification. The second time, Code, in attempt-
ing to think of the Morse "D," had actually in mind, through
error, the dot-dash sequence of the Morse "G"; and Walter rang
the "G" on the bell. In neither experiment was there any vocal
indication, any whispering to another sitter, etc. etc., so that there
was no check upon the collaborator's admission of success ; like-
wise there was correspondingly little play for any explanation
on a basis of hyperesthesia.
Control was frequently verified and reported as OK during
the part of the seance for which the dictated record is lost, but
of course these·reports cannot now be associated with the accom-
panying phenomena. " Control OK" for this evening included:
THE A.S.P.R. PROJECT: SEANCES OF JUNE, 1925 167
normal hand control throughout the circle; extra control of the
Crandon-Psychic link by Bird, reaching across Crandon, as on
19th; foot control throughout the circle except on either side of
the Ps"ychic, as on 19th; visibility of all five luminous controls,
the responsibility and the reporting technique here being substan-
tially as on the 19th. The freedom of the Psychic's feet and legs
from other than luminous controls is chargeable to Walter's
general dislike for ·personal control at these points.
This brings us to the part of the seance recorded dictaphon-
ically, which is transcribed verbatim, with parenthetic interpola-
tions by Bird, as usual. Dictation mainly by Bird, with assistance
.from other sitters.
10:08. Hoagland and Code report cold winds on the backs of
their hands during these touches [the r eference is of course to
the immediately preceding dictation, which is lost]. Hoagland
reports that the object touching him seemed to have fine creases
·on its surface. ·
10:09. D moves with visible silhouetting of X; control OK.
D moves repeatedly with visible X [silhouetted]. D continues
motion on top of T, [with] silhouetting.
10:12. Wide motion of D, with silhouetting [of X]. All
motion so far has been confined to [the region on and immediately
·over] the top of T. Bird now holding D horizontally above T;
Bird's hand is touched, with visible silhouetting of X against D.
Bird feels a contact on D, which is taken from his hand after
·considerable effort [the difficulty being in getting hold of D, not
in overcoming resistance from Bird or anything of that sort],
:and placed upon CP held by Hoagland. [Doubtless the missing
portion of the record would have made it appear that Hoagland
had had one hand on CP, under adequate maintenance of control,
for some time].
10:13. CP with D held close to Bird by Hoagland, at Walter's
-instructions. D falls on T, dim side up. Hoagland releases CP,
[which swings a bit, pendulum-wise, and then slowly comes to
normal rest on its suspension].
10:15. Crandon touched by DM [identification of this object
by Crandon, supported by the sound made when the record con-
tinues: J which is brought out over T and dropped on its far side.
SAB rings [on the floor, somewhere in the neighborhood of De
Wyckoff.] Control of Crandon OK, and foot control around
SAB verified. C heard to slide; Psychic reports she is [being]
closed in. Control of Crandon's head on Bird's shoulder is
.established [and continued throughout subsequent C manipula-
168 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
tion], following which repeat~d violent disturbances of C are
heard. Other controls all OK.
10:16. The Psychic reports continued pinching in of C.
Violent noises continue from that quarter. The Psychic reports
pressure from behind on C. The noises continue.
10:17. The Psychic reports that she is entirely out of C,
violent motion of which is indicated by noises. Crandon and Bird
report breezes from direction of C. .
10:18. T moves; C appears to lunge violently, apparently
over a large distance. [The very noncommittal statements about
C in this dictation are the fruit of previous experience that extra-
ordinary commotion in that area may correspond to a shockingly
small displacement of C. J Crandon and Bird report more breezes
from direction of C. Richardson reports [northwestJ edge of C
considerably moved back.
10:19. Extremely cold breezes from direction of C reported
by Bird. C continues in [apparentlyJ violent motion. Walter
scratches on it at Hoagland's request. Walter volunteers to rap
on C, and does so. · Control OK, including Crandon's head.
Scratching continues, and .more straining of C.
10:20. Continued motion ~f C. Code reports that for a
moment here, C was sufficiently far back for him to see the collec-
tion of illuminated apparatus on the :floor; [ordinarily this is
quite hidden from a sitter in Code's position, C interveningJ.
Crandon reports being pushed out of the way [of moving C]
toward Bird. Bird is touched repeatedly on the [leftJ knee; he
experienced also a scraping down the [leftJ calf. [The sensation
here was very similar to that got from vigorous rubbing · by a
rubber pad with projecting rubber rods or spikes, which Bird
has met as washcloth or massage pad, if not as both.] Crandon
is ' pushed violently against Bird. Controls OK.
10:21. Code recovers LM [without sacrifice of control] and
places it on T vertically. LM shifts [almost at onceJ into hori-
zontal position, :floats above T, passing between heads of Crandon
and the Psychic without striking either. It passes [completelyJ
out of the circle, [behind CrandonJ, and [comesJ back [in circleJ
again [by passingJ between Crandon and Bird. LM [is thenJ
thrown violently, high in air, and comes down [obviouslyJ free.
LM is rattled violently around on the :floor, in the space between
Crandon and C; then comes up through the space between the
arms of Crandon and Bird [on the one sideJ, and T [on the otherJ;
balances above T momentarily; shoots high in air; [then appar-
entlyJ falls free. [There is no problem involved here, of the
'l'HE \..S.P.R. PROJECT: SEAN CES OF J UNE, 1925 169
possible penetration of matter by the t erminal supporting LM;
if this originat ed anywhere on P sychic's frontal aspect, and is
sufficiently flexible to dodge the heads of Crandon and Bird by
curving upward in passing them, it could handle LM as observed,
without fouling any physical object in the room.]
10:23.1 Walter apparently recovering LM from under T.
Richardson reports touch on finger as though by some object,
which is now held against P sychic's hand by his ring finger.
10 :24. LM continues violent motion on the floor under T,
pushing SAB against Bird's [right] foot. LM rises partly from
floor on side [of T] remote from the P sychic, touching several
sitters. Code at Walter's instruction recovers LM and places it
vertically on T [as at the beginning of the 10 :21 entry]. As he
took hold [of LM during or at end of its rising movement just
chronicled] , he could feel that W alter still had [hold of] the
other end. [After Code has placed it on T], LM moves about T ,
first r etaining vertical position, then horizontally; then floats ;
passes between Richardson and P sychic, and falls on the floor
outside cabinet. N ow 10 :25, [ at the end of this action].
10:29. After some conversation with Walter, lights on, C
found in normal position, save for slight displacement backward.
[The next entry recalls that during the "lost" part of the record,
W alter had put some object in Richardson's hand, stating that
this was a " present" for him. There ·was some talk by W alter
about this present, but just how serious it was and in just what
t erms is not remembered. There certainly was nothing particularly
evidential in connection with the character of this " present " as
now det ermined, else this would have been r etained in memory.]
Richardson's " present " is found to be a piece of wire. [This was
not identified as from any of the seance apparatus ; its source
remains permanently unknown.]
It is hardly necessary for me to comment extensively upon the
above. Any reader of experience will be able to isolate numerous inci-
dents of considerable permanent weight in the direction of validity ;
and of course the sittings are not free from elements which one must
question keenly. Indeed, a seance without its suspicious episodes
would be, in toto, an obj ect of grave suspicion; for the phenomena
do not occur that way. The enthusiastic advocate of validity will
see much to rejoice him in the records, but, if he preserve his mental
balance, nothing which he may put forward as negating the generali-
ties of pp. 239 and 266. W e are not looking for a single episode that
170 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
will validate the mediumship; and we find none. We do add a con-
siderable breadth and depth of incident, and I think we considerably
1·educe the small probability that all these phenomena can be satis-
factorily explained as due to fraud. To hope for more, especially out
•of three sittings, would be unduly ambitious. Particularly, we must
not regard the dictaphonic recording as an established failure because
•
of the rough spots remaining to be smoothed out in its operation; nor
may we feel that it is justified as a permanent procedure until we have
gone through a set of three sittings without accident. We have got,
as a result of these three seances, just where any rational prophet
would have expected us to get.
Following my three " official " Society sittings of June 18th-20th.
I was to have resumed this study in two weeks. The excitement ensuing
upon the events of June 29th and 30th,8
however, combined with the
social demands of the July Fourth holiday upon the Crandons, made
it expedient to skip this period; so I found myself again in the Lime
Street seance room after four weeks rather than after two.
s See Chapter IX.
CHAPTER XIV
A.S.P.R. Seances: Second Series
Seance Records and Comment
By the Editor
The series of sittings starting July 16th, 1925, followed very
closely on the promulgation of the major hypothesis of hypnotic
fraud by the Code-Hoagland group. Code, at least, was willing to
go on sitting for me in the face of this hypothesis. I found the ex-
pediencies to be against the inclusion of him or Hoagland, and I was
left with no time to take up seriously the problem of replacing them
--the emergency burst at the last moment. Mr. and Mrs. W illett
Hubbs, of N iagara Falls, were available, together with Dr. Rich-
ardson, to make up a circle of five sitters plus one dictaphone operator.
In spite of the fact that Hubbs is Margery's nephew, this seemed
the best procedure at my disposal. He is Secretary of the Niagara
l<
'alls Trust Co.
A further complication lay in Walter's expressed desire to bring
the phenomena into red light to a greater degree than had heret~fore
been done, and in Margery's pronounced endorsement of such program
as a means of silencing further criticism and controversy. It was
my own impression that this would probably involve a good deal of
preliminary sitting in darkness or partially in darkness, under a
procedure in the main similar to that formerly termed "incubation"
by Comstock. Anticipating that on this account no final results
would be attained in any direction in this particular series of sittings,
the opportunity seemed a favorable one to impose upon Walter the
identically same circle for several consecutive evenings. This is some·-
thing for which he continually asks and which he hardly ever gets.
As it turned out, there was total darkness and continuous trance
throughout the three sittings of this series, and the phenomena turned,
from the telekinetic ones got by me on my previous visit, somewhat
in the direction of the teleplastics presented to Dingwall in January,
1925; though with teleplasm of a type sharply divergent from that
shown to D ingwall. · Walter was so pleased with his own progress in
this direction that he looked definitely forward to more of the same
171
172 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
sort of thing, certainly with photography and probably with a good
deal of red light, on my next visit. He consented to the presence of
melted paraffin in the seance room each night of the present series,
and several times he seemed ~o indicate that only the oppressive heat
kept him from working with it. Weather Bmeau records show tem-
peratures of 74, 78 and 70 degrees at t en1
o'clock on the three eve-
nings. The seance-room thermometer was broken and I found no
opportunity to replace it, but the room temperature was each night
in the neighborhood of 90 degrees, with considerable humidity.
·walter at one point stated that his recourse to trance was not
through .choice or through the inherent necessities of the phenomena,
but arose out of his efforts to deal with the hot sticky weather. That
the trance as well as the shift in the character of the phenomena was
his own motion rather than mine I need not emphasize. I have a slight
preference, in this mediumship, for the tranceless sitting, since I be-
lieve the medium's conscious observation of the phenomena to be a
factor tending to her better morale and better physical condition. And
inasmuch as I was engaged primarily in an attempt to strengthen the
presumption of validity, I had a very heavy preference, at this time
and place, for the telekinetic phenomena. I would not at all under-
estimate the significance of the teleplasmics or the necessity for a loilg
and careful study of that side of the mediumship; but in precipitating
me into such study at this time, Walter was in my judgment getting
the cart before the horse. But I did not then and do not yet know
any feasible method for holding ·walter upon a given task when his
inclinations lean toward another.
Throughout the present three evenings, I was driven to constant
rubbing and scratching of my face by a sensation different from
anything I have ever experienced through meteorological conditions
alone; this I thought might correspond to Margery's " cobwebs." l a
The program was to have Hubbs at the dictaphone. While
instructing him in its operation prior to the seance, I accidentally
upset the machine. Carelessness in inspect.ing it after restoring it
to even keel opened the way to its unobserved inoperativeness during
the seance. The electrical circuits were intact, so that the cylinder
fed through as it should ; but the mechanical connection between
mouthpiece and "
microphone was interrupted, s.o that there was no
1 Daylight saving time; nine o'clock standard time.
laM. M., p. 193.
A.S.P.R. SEANCES : SE COND SERIES 173
recording of the dict ation spoken into the former. It is to be em-
phasized that failure of the dict aphone on this evening was due to
causes that were definitely known, and definitely known to be normal,
even though its misconduct during June was not yet wholly accounted
for on normal grounds.
In the absence of the dictaphone record, I r econst ructed t he seance
a ction next morning, with assistance from the other sitters. The
sequence of events was slow for a Marger y sit ting, and I am confident
that this sequence as well as the value of the major events themselves
IS preserved.
Seance of J uly 16th, 1925: 10 Lime Street. Record made
from memory on morning of J uly 17th, by Bird with assistance
of other sitters ; parenthetic interpolations therefore superfluous,
the material which would ordinarily be found therein comprising
part of the r ecord itself.
Circle formed at 9 :15 and seance held in total darkness through-
out. .Order of circle, clockwise : Psychic, Richardson, Mrs. Hubbs,
Bird, Crandon, Psychic again. Hubbs at' dictaphone, on sofa,
facing circle. Margery wore bathrobe and slippers only, being
examined and put in them by Mrs. Hubbs. Five luminous controls
were in use on her ankles, wrists and head. It is a matter of
observation that on a hot, sweat y night, the P sychic's perspiration
saturates these and, particularly in the case of the ankle bands,
lowers their visibility. On the present occasion, though this
happened, all five bands remained visible to some sitters throughout.
For the visibility of the foot control, responsibility devolved largely
upon Dr. Richardson; Bird in particular, owing to the smallness
of the circle, found the t able almost always between his eyes and
the Psychic's feet . ·
Throughout the sitting and without exception, hand control
at all junctions other than the Crandon-Psychic link was uninter-
rupted. When Bird used his right hand for manipulation of the
apparatus, Mrs. Hubbs transferred her hand to his wrist and
went with him. Crandon several t imes left his seat in search of
apparatus. Usually this occurred in red light, with the P sychic's
free hand visible. Several times, however, it took place in darkness.
In such intervals there was no action; and the first such interval
did not come until after the brilliant display of X (Walter's
t erminal) against D (luminous doughnut) .
Repeatedly at critical moments Bird was given additional
control of Crandon's two hands and Margery's right; frequently,
174 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of Crandon's head as well. The loss of the dictaphonic record
makes it impossible to connect such control with the precise
phenomena accompanying it. Bird is positive that with one or
two exceptions, the full additional control prevailed at every
episode of moment after the conclusion of the X-D display. Taken
severely on their merits, all these episodes under the extended
control are not of equal value; for at some times Bird is better
able than at others to verify absolutely that the two hands tem-
porarily controlled by him have physical continuity with Crandon's
and Margery's shoulders. On no occasion did he have any active
fear that either hand was not what it purported to be; but absolute
certainty here is a function of the time available, which in turn
varies with the nature of the phenomenon of the moment.
Shortly after the light went out, Crandon reported sound as
of rubbing against C walls. Not heard by anybody else, this
provoked a question addressed to Walter, who replied with whistle
as the first indication of his presence sensible to all. There ensued
considerable whistling and talking over an interval of perhaps
ten minutes. A sitter suggested that the Psychic might go into
trance. She expressed unwillingness, but within a very short time
Crandon reported the trance.1
a At the instant it was not observable
by the others but soon became so. The thrashing with the feet was
less pronounced than in Bird's previous experience with the trance;
the movements of head and body were much more free. There
was unusually frequent vocalization of the petulant, almost whiny
complaint: "Don't feel good, at all." Vocal effects in general
were more notable than usual, save for snoring, which was almost
entirely absent. There was a deal of puffing, blowing, snorting and
smacking.
At one point, Bird and Mrs. Hubbs were in the act of report-
ing touches on their knees, when V\Talter spoke up to say that it
was the Psychic's feet. The ankle controls were invisible to Bird
and could not be brought into his field of vision because of their
position relative to the table; other sitters however were able to
verify Walter's statement.
So far as these particular touches went, Bird could not have
made a positive verdict of normality. Later he was touched often
and freely pushed by what he took to be unmistakably the feet.
bIt is only fair to poil1t out the complete consistency of this chronicle with the
theory that the mecliumship is of hypnotic origin. Code, in reading the M. M. book,
found its earlier chapters describing the beginnings of the mecliumship, and particu-
larly the beginnings of the trance habit, brilliantly in line with his own hy.potheses.-
J·. M. B.
A.S.P.R. SEANCES: SECOND SERIES 175
The first, and ambiguous, .touches consisted in a stroking of the
knee, much as is done by the teleplastic t erminals ; this was firm
and clean-cut and seemed intentionally directed. The sensation
was so little that of a human contact that Bird infers the slippers
to have been on the feet. The incident strongly emphasizes that
for dark-room touches, we are much more dependent upon certainty
of control than upon the sensations reported. It is also worthy
of note that W alter made no attempt to claim these touches,
though inquiry was so couched that he could apparently have
done so with no risk.
After the onset of the t rance D was placed on T. There ensued
some delay, with instructions from vyalter several times to remove
it or turn it over t emporarily because of its extreme brightness.
Finally there occurred a series of dark silhouettings against the
bright ground, lasting perhaps t wenty minutes in all.
F irst the outline was that of a single finger , followed immedi-
ately by that of a badly formed hand. Bird commented upon
this bad formation ; a change of shape at once occur red, best
described by suggesting that two fingers, which had been lying
together, were now separated. After this had occurred Bird still
saw but three digits. On his remarking this, a fourth at once
moved into the visible field , coming from off the D at Bird's side;
after which a thumb moved into visibility from the side -remote
from Bird, and again in a way suggesting that it had been there
continuously. Mrs. Hubbs and other sitters at Bird's right could
see this before Bird could. ·
Some sitters thought the hand a miniature : vValter and others
disputed this. Bird lat er found by experiment that one t ends
to underestimat e the size of D itself in the dark, and with it that
of the silhouetting object. The hand was doubtless of adult size.
It is hereinafter r eferred to either as X or as H --the latter when
emphasis on its hand-like appearance is desired.
Mostly this obj ect lay motionless across the D , sometimes for
minutes at a time. There were occasional changes of position;
some of these gave the imp ression of a change in size and shape
as well, but Bird is confident that all could be interpret ed as
changes of position. Several times, usually in response to Bird's
remark calling attention to lack of mobility, H would move about
carrying D with it. Such motion was totally lacking in preference
for any particular sense or even any particular line. Several
complete or three-quarter circles were described with all freedom,
the rotation of H in these being always or almost always counter-
clockwise. As climax to one such episode, D was picked up and
176 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
waved vigorously in the faces of Bird and Mrs. Hubbs, coming
about as close as is possible without actual contact; then dropped
on T in front of Mrs. Hubbs. Bird and Crandon both recall that
at this moment the extra controls prevailed. The description of
the silhouetting against D makes it plain that if this be fitted into
any picture of fraud, the Psychic's own hand is needed to produce
it. Nothing is remembered definitely which would operate to the
categorical exclusion of the claim that at some moment during
the subsequent demonstration a foot had been substituted for
this hand.
During manipulation of D or at some other moment, Crandon
and Richardson in rapid succession reported a passing touch from
X, flicked across the tips of their fingers.
At one stage Bird was permitted to touch the teleplasmic hand
with the back of his own hand, as the former lay over the D. The
dominant sensations were of cold and smoothness. The first is
conventional and needs no comment. On the second Bird insists
strongly: this was not a skin-covered object; it gave an impression
of slickness quite foreign to skin.
After the removal of D, the Dingwall mechanical bell-box
(DB) with luminous striking plate2
was placed on T. H was
brilliantly silhouetted against the striking plate, in fuller outline
than against D; for this plate is a full circle, five inches in diameter,
luminously painted over its entire area. H was now plainly seen to
be the normal .size of an adult hand. Bird thought it impossible
to state whether it simulated a right hand, palm down, or a left,
palm up. Other sitters thought they could observe curvature of
the fingers concave downwardly, calling for the former alternative.
H moved visibly and audibly on its luminous ground, and several
times rang the bell.
The coordinate board (CB ) was next placed by the sitters on
T. This consists of a luminous network of one-inch squares, ten
by twelve, painted on a cardboard somewhat larger than necessary
to accommodate it. H was silhouetted several times against this,
giving maximum length of six inches and width of four to five.
Then Bird was instructed by "'\iValter to hold CB in the air above T.
He did this, about eight inches from the table-top. H was then
silhouetted against CB, moved visibly, struck CB audibly several
times, and finally pushed the latter off Bird's hand, away from
the Psychic.
2 See page 117.
A.S.P.R. SEANCES: SE COND SERIES 177
The hole bell-box (HB ) , of new design3
by Code, was now intro-
duced. W it h this on T, Walter asked that the luminous holes be
covered. There was considerable fumbling and experiment by the
sitters befo re this could be done satisfactorily. One arrangement
that covered the entire t op of the box with a large cardboard
sheet , Walter rej ected. T he arrangement finally reached involved
cutting a strip of this cardboard, laying t his over the row of holes,
and fastening it at either end with thumbtacks. It was inferred
by the sitters at the time, and later verified by Bird, that no
normal access could be got through the holes to the contact board
without displacing this cardboard shield sufficiently to make the
luminous paint around some of the holes visible to some of the
sitters. Nevertheless, with the card in place, Walter repeatedly
rang the bell without the slightest glimmer of luminosity.4
On at
least one of these episodes there p revailed the full additional control
of the Psychic's right and Crandon's left hands by Bird.
Inasmuch as the Scientific American and the original Code
bell-boxes were in the room, it is necessar y to r ecord that , owing
mainly to the different quality of the wood, all three give different
and easily recognizable not es. The ringing here was distinctly
that of HB and was distinctly on T . After t en or a dozen episodes
of this, R ichardson and Bird were invited by W alter to put the-ir
hands on the cardboard, one at either end. The bell gave one
brief peal under these conditions, stopping as though the circuit
had been interrupted. Walter then reported the bell inoperative;
and sounds were repeatedly heard as of the contact sheets striking,
without ringing.5
At the end of the seance Bird was about to ex-
amine HB, expecting to find a wire off a t erminal; but it was now
found to be wholly in order and operative.5
a
The P sychic was weighed before and after the seance. Pains
were taken to prevent the recording of any normal loss of weight,
the bathrobe, which would have taken up any p erspiration, going
on the scales with her. H er weight was the same before and after.
At a moment when Bird's head was far forward over T , ex-
s See pp. 123-5 and 128-9.
,, See page 128. In view of what is there told, it should be stated that no
sparking was reported by any of the sitte1·s at the present occasion. While we were
of course looking for none, since we supposed the box to be rung by access in some
way to its interior, I am very certain indeed that had there 'been a spark I should
have seen it.-J. M. B.
5 See page 124.
5a. A paragraph discussing the construction of the HB, and speculating as to
Walter's means of ringing it here, is omitted in view of the f ullness with which the
point is coverecl on pp. 123-9.- J. M. B.
178 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
amining H on D, but from one side so that it could not have
obscured D from Psychic's seat, ·walter made remark indicating
knowledge of Bird's position. As against the idea of coincidence
or inference, Bird urges that this was the one moment during the
seance when his head was i·eally out and over the table to a degree
surpassing what might have been looked for from one intent on
observation of the action.
During a red-light interval, while Crandon was searching for
apparatus, Walter whistled sharply from C in response to Bird's
remark. No sitter was watching the Psychic's lips at the moment.
The seance was terminated by unexpected emergence from
trance at 10:35 followed by Walter's good-night.
Seance of July 17th, 1925; 10 Lime Street, Boston. Dicta-
phonic record, transcribed verbatim, with parenthetic elaboration
by Bird. Original dictation by Bird, with assistance of other
sitters, relayed into instrument by Hubbs.
Circle formed at 9 :15 P.M. and seance held in total darkness
throughout. Order of circle, clockwise: Psychic, Richardson~
Mrs. Hubbs, Bird, Crandon, Psychic again. [Hubbs outside
circle, on sofa in northeast corner of room, at dictaphone.
Margery clothed in robe and slippers only, under supervision of
Mrs. Hubbs. Crandon at his own request was "frisked" before
seance by Bird, with negative result. Five luminous controls as
heretofore. Continuous victrola, record "Out of the Dusk to You."
Various apparatus, none new, present in space east of cabinet.
Following previous night's demonstration with HB, this had been
more carefully prepared, the cardboard strip having been put
in place in daylight and tacked firmly down.]
9:18. Walter whistle.
9 :25 [the interval having been well filled with conversation
from Walter]. At V\7alter's request and without interrupting
control, Bird removed the original Code bell-box [from its initial
place on T, at side remote from Psychic, to place on the floor,
between his own feet. It remained here and played no part in
the seance]. HB remained on T, [where it had been initially,
along the side next the Psychic. No other apparatus was on T
initially].
9:26. HB turned end for end by Bird, at Walter's instruc-
tions. [No interruption of control. Box had stood with pad-
locked side away from Psychic, in accordance with usual conven-
tions of this mediumship; it now stood with padlock toward her.
A.S.P.R. SEANCES : SECOND SERIES 179
Bird was aware of this; 'Valter was asked which way HB now
stood and demonstrated that he, too, knew.]
9 :30. Crandon announces trance. [The other sitters were
unable to verify this at the moment, but did so very soon, before
any further phenomena occurred. Trance very little vocal-much
less than night before. Considerable motion of feet; at times
these were on Richardson's knees, or in contact with shins and
knees of Bird and Mrs. Hubbs, or in sharp motion under T. The
luminous foot controls were Richardson's particular responsibility.
They were visible to him practically throughout, and always to
Mrs. Hubbs when not .to him. · The whole trance efl"ect was much
more peaceful than the night before, though Walter complained
several times of the excessive heat. The paraffin, melted in a pail,
was in C, as the night before, through Crandon's hope of getting
molds of hand; but tonight there was a bucket of ice water behind
it, for Walter to use if he would, and to maintain a lower cabinet
t emperature. Headband visible to some sitter at all times; lumi-
nous control of right wrist not uniformly or constantly visible, so
control of this hand must be specified at critical moments.]
9 :30. HB rang on T; no luminosity visible anywhere [this
of course refers, here and lat er, to luminous marks on top of box
a nd not to luminous controls].
9 :31. Two long peals from HB. Richardson, with head far
in cabinet, and Bird, equally remote (and equally low) on other
side of T, both fail to see any luminosity.6
9 :32. Walter rings HB three times to Bird's order; no lumi-
nosity visible. One long peal follows, [of Walter's own motion].
Walter says he does not use the holes, that we may seal them
with sealing wax next time.
9 :35. In response to Bird's request, Walter rings bell three
times, shorter and more closely spaced than before. No visible
luminosity. HB rings four short peals; then [after brief interval,
and both times on Walter's motion] six peals of varying lengths.
It is suggested [by some sitter] that this is an attempt at the
Richardson family signal; ' Valter immediately gives this in better
form.
6 It was of com·se ultimately indicated, almost to the point of absolute proof,
that Walter rang the bell wivhout use of m1y means of entry to the 'box-such entry
not being necessary! NevertJ1eless, it seems desirable to leave the record as it was
written when this was not known, rather than make any deletion of matter which
now turns out to have no p3rticular point. The references listed on p. 189 will enable
the reader to trace the complete history of the blind ringing by the Hole Bell-box.-
J'. M. B.
180 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
9 :36. One very long peal, followed by a series of seven or
eight very short ones. Then two long and two short, alternating.
9:37. With Bird's forearm lying the entire length of the box,
on top [no sacrifice of controlJ, Walter gave one long peal on
the bell. Bird felt [what he described at the time, for brevity's
sake, as] vibrations of lid of box, immediately prior to ringing.
[An accurate description would be as follows: partly through
hearing and partly through feeling the jar or shock, Bird got
impression as of light tapping by fingernails, which because of
the muffled effect he confidently placed inside the box.J This ex-
periment was suggested by vValter; but at a moment when Bird
was revolving in his mind the possibility of making some sort of
contact between his person and T or HB, for the very purpose
of seeking some such experience as actually ensued.
9:40. [Over the impatient protest of Crandon, on the ground
that it was "leading nowhere"], Bird's experiment of just now
was repeated by Richardson; but he reported no sensation save
the ringing of the bell. [Walter seemed anxious to·have the rnatter
cleared up; with his consentJ Bird now placed an ear close down
in the angle between T and HB, in hope of again hearing the effect;
but he heard and felt only the ringing of the bell.
9:41. [Walter continued to press this matter, apparently
determined to get a reconciliation of some sort.] With one hand
·under each end of HB [no loss of control], supporting it thus
off T, Bird [experienced two episodes of bell-ringing, separated
by some seconds. He] reported that the first time he sensed no
effect other than the ringing. On repetition, he felt pressure [on
his hands] as bell rang, [duplicating previous experience in hold-
ing other bell-boxes while Walter rang them]. But the attempt
to feel vibrations [internal shock, or anything of the sort], was
again a failure. Throughout all these bell-ringing episodes [ cer-
tainly since 9 :37 if not from an earlier moment], there was no
visible luminosity; and hand control was specifically verified by
all around circle [but Psychic's right hand by Crandon alone].
Psychic's headband was visible to Bird and the foot controls to
Mrs. Hubbs.
[Reports of visible foot control, unless the reverse is specified,
always imply that for each foot a single band is seen, and not two
bands or a full circle or ellipse, as should be the case if the band
were off the ankle. The sitters making this observation, of course,
are seldom if ever able to judge whether the spatial relationship
between the two bands is such that one foot may be thought of
as covering the band that has been detached from the other; or
A.S.P.R. SEANCES: SECOND SERIES 181
whether any other means of concealing such removal (as with a
slipper) has been put into effect. This inability arises not out
of shortage of observing time, or out of any state of mind unfavor-
able for observation; but out of the fact that no accurate judg-
ment can be formed of the distances from the eye to small luminous
objects visible in darkness, and hence that no verdict can be reached
as to how they would appear if a normal view of them were afforded,
in normal perspective.]
9 :45. Bird out of control while removing HB from T [and
placing it between rheostat and fireplace]. Hand control of
Crandon and Mrs. Hubbs on Bird's knees here. Doughnut (D,
luminous) secured by Crandon and placed on T by Bird. [In
this interval Crandon's left hand out of control; no report about
Psychic's right.] Walter very particular about precise location
of D on T. [Commenting on this dictation, ~e said it didn't really
make any difference; he just enjoyed making us follow precise
and arbitrary instructions.]
9 :47. H [Walter's " hand "] descended on D with a flop,
audible to all. Extra control of Psychic's right hand and both
Crandon's, by Bird, immediately following this, and control by
Richardson of Psychic's left [as always], demonstrating that
hand on D was none of these four. At Bird's request, Walter
moved both the Psychic's feet, demonstrating that it was neither
of them, [nor anything carried by one of them. Having asked
for this, Bird was in position for precise observation. Both ankle
bands were low down and far apart, making it out of the question
for both to be on the same limb. In addition, they did not move
quite simultaneously; and one came forward away from the
Psychic while the other moved partly sideways]. Slight movement
of hand with D [after above observations in control, and after
Bird had restored his attention to table-top]. Bird was [here]
permitted to touch H quite extensively with back of his hand.
Sensation of smoothness duplicated that of night before. Sensa-
tion of coolness present, but Bird believes not quite so cool as night
before. Walter assents to this.
9 :51. Complicated series of movements [going on for several
minutes before and after dictation] by individual fingers of H.
Sometimes one finger moved while others remained motionless;
sometimes two or even more fingers moved simultaneously but
independently. Some shifting of H and D on T here.
9 :55. Lateral movement of H with D.
10:00. H still silhouetted over D , and at the moment better
visible to Bird than at any time since first contact. [Considerable
182 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
motion or change of shape, or possibly of both but not necessarily
so, going on too slowly for observation on its merits, would be
implied by this remark.] Slight movement of fingers now noted.
At Walter's suggestion Bird brings his nose very close to H; he
reports no odor of any description. To his best judgment, move-
ment by H during this episode indicated that H was actually clear
of Din the main, resting only upon its own finger tips [in a fashion
strongly suggesting that H was in some sense alive and self-sup-
porting. The major items leading to this conclusion were the
curvature of the fingers and the relative speeds, across the lumi-
nous ground, of the forward and rear portions of the hand].
H now removed from D.
10:05. D removed by Crandon [no· report of his left or
Margery's right hands during the interval] and DB placed on T.
No interruption of Crandon-Bird control.
10 :06. DB moved sharply away from Psychic, across T. T
also moved in this same sense. Walter in response to query said
he did this teleplastically, and not through the Psychic's feet.
These feet [hadJ both [beenJ visible to Mrs. Hubbs at the time,
[and she reported that they had been at rest]. Immediately fol-
lowing, a hand was silhouetted against the luminous plate of DB.
Then the tips of several fingers struck the plate and rang the bell
several times; then the entire hand with the fingers sharply
crooked [did the sameJ. While Bird maintains control of all
three hands [one of Margery and two of CrandonJ at his left, H
is [ againJ silhouetted against the plate and rings the bell sharply
several times. It withdraws, returns, and repeats the act. In
response to speculation about H, Walter displays it repeatedly
in whole or in part against the plate, ringing the bell incidentally.
The fingers [are nowJ crooked so as to make it certain to all that
it is a right hand, palm down. Richardson verifies Bird's impres-
sion that the fingers were decidedly gnarled and knotty.
10:10. Referring to previous reports of right hand, Walter
now implies that he will show a left. A hand descends sharply on
the plate, ringing the bell repeatedly and visible in various p ositions.
(It is] distinctly a left, palm down.7
The same knotted effect
of the fingers [is observed]. Extra control by Bird of three hands
7 If it had been the same hand as ·before, it would have had to be turned palm
up to simulate a left. All sitters agreed that there could be no possibility of
tnistake ; although I did not point out to them this significance of the observa-
tion. Of course, the same considerations which I have adduced in my parenthetic
remarks following the 9:41 dictation might be urged here by the skeptic, as a. means
of meeting the present observations.-J. M. B.
A.S.P.R. SEANCES: SECOND SERIES 183
throughout this; [and foot controls reported specifically visible
to RichardsonJ.
10 :12. At Walter's request, Crandon removes DB and sub-
stitutes CB. This now lies on corner of T nearest Bird [at
Psychic's far right]. H descends on CB with fingers wide apart,
[a position quite different from any in which it has yet been seen
at this seance :J it is eight inches long and about seven wide from
tip to tip of outstretched thumb and finger. H moved slightly
on CB ; it was a left.
10 :15. H again silhouetted, momentarily; Walter asks Bird
to verify that it is a left. [It was.]
10:16. Right hand silhouetted against CB [still on side of
T remote from Psychic], as Walter whistles in cabinet. [No
observations since 10:12 as to concavity of fingers or orientation
of H.]
10 :18. Right hand silhouetted against CB. Bird is invited
to hold CB in air, above T. He did this, with his thumb project-
ing toward the Psychic, from under CB. A right hand was
silhouetted against CB ; and Bird got a long and persistent con-
tact against the end of his thumb from an object which, save for
the cool temperature, might well have been a human hand. While
this went on, Bird for some time had had all hands at his left; and
Richardson specifically reported control of the Psychic's left hand
[which he later stated was with him uninterruptedly throughout
the sittingJ.
10 :25. Audible flop on T. Crandon and Richardson report
that this is by neither of the Psychic's hands. Audible scratch-
ing on T, by request; same report. [No showing against theory
that this incident was by a foot. J
10 :30. Walter said good night. In response to Crandon's
urging, Walter was heard to whisper, incoherently, in red light,
by Bird and Mrs. Hubbs. No one able to see the Psychic's lips.
Recovery from trance was had only after red light came on, con-
trary to course of preceding night's recovery, when Psychic
announced that she was "here" before Walter said good night.
At the seance of July 18th, I planned, if any of the bell-boxes were
rung, to attempt a dictaphonic recording of this phenomenon. A
hypnotic or hallucinatory theory covering the production of the
phenomena in general had already been disproved photographically,
as regards the visible phenomena of this mediumship. It seemed worth
while to disprove it again as a generalization covering the auditory
phenomena.
184 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
During the morning of the 18th, I conducted a series of experi-
ments to determine whether positive results of any sort could be
hoped for in this connection, with the equipment at hand. I found
that with the unaided mouthpiece of the dictaphone, no impression was
made upon the cylinder when the box was more than two feet distant
during ringing. At six inches or less, a very satisfactory record was
got; between six inches and two feet, a less satisfactory and less
uniform one. With the bare mouthpiece, even at a distance of only
an inch, the dictaphone reproduces the action of the bell not as a
ringing, but as a whirring. I looked forward to attempts to improve
upon this result with the use of a horn on the mouthpiece; but there
was no time in connection with the present sitting to experiment with
means of attaching this securely. So I decided to make the experi-
ment, for this evening, with the bare mouthpiece.
Seance of July 18th, 1925: 10 Lime Street. Dictaphonic
record, transcribed verbatim, with parenthetic elaboration by Bird.
Original dictation by Bird [through Hubbs], with aid from
other sitters.
Circle formed at 9:00P.M. [the watch used during the seance
was later found to be some twenty minutes slow; this affects the
absolute but not the relative timing. Seance held in total dark-
ness throughout]. Order of circle, clockwise: Psychic, Richard-
son, Mrs. Hubbs, Bird, Crandon, Psychic again. Hubbs at dicta-
phone, on chair in front of sofa. Gerke [present], outside circle,
in chair, behind space between Richardson and Mrs. Hubbs. [Five
luminous controls, as usual. Continuous victrola, tune " Out of
the Dusk to You." Psychic in robe and slippers, under supervision
of Mrs. Hubbs.]
[In arranging the seats prior to sitting down, all sitters at
Bird's right were crowded further to their right than usual, making
it possible for Bird's chair to be entirely at the side of the table
opposite the Psychic, rather than in its more usual place on the
corner at her far right. Crandon was shifted a bit to his left,
and the rheostat was moved back close to the fireplace. The net
result was to leave a clear path along which Hubbs, in the dark,
would be able to move the dictaphone up to a position of contact
with the table. This was necessary, because of. the extremely
limited range of the instrument, as indicated above.]
9:10. Crandon announces trance.
9:11. Walter voice.
A.S.P.R. SEANCES: SECOND SERIES 185
9:12. At Walter's suggestion, Crandon leaves his seat to remove
SAB from T and replace it with HB. [Sentence edited in trans-
cription to avoid ambiguity of original dictation.] Bird took over
control of Psychic's right hand [during this; Crandon out of
control. Various other pie,ces of apparatus in reach behind
Crandon's wing of the cabinet, as usual; only HB on T.]
9:15. Two long rings on l-IB.
9 :20. l-IB rang twice. Trance unusually restless.
9:24. Sharp movement of T away from Psychic; attempt to
verify positively the foot control failed [apparently owing mainly
to the closeness of the sitters to T]. Walter [as last night] stated
that he had moved T [teleplastically, rather than with the Psychic's
foot]. Immediately several sharp staccato rings on HB, the last
coming after Bird had established control of Psychic's right [and
Crandon's leftJ hands.
['¥alter had been told, early in the seance, of the plans for
recording the bell-ringing. He assented and promised to indicate
when it might be done. Twice the suggestion from a sitter to do it
was met with the statement that he was not ready. At the present
point he instructed that the dictaphone be brought forward. This
was done; and Walter then proceeded with the experiment so
rapidly that there was no time to dictate an a p1·io1··i statement.
The next thing on the record must therefore be either a blank
space, corresponding to failure to record the ringing; or a series
of whirring noises, corresponding to success. In the latter event,
there will be pertinent spacing between the several peals occurring
during the same episode of ringing; but no pertinent spacing
between the two separate episodes, since during the considerable
period separating them the dictaphone was not in rotation.
The record in fact carries five distinct whirrs, separated by
intervals of which the first is noticeably shorter than the others.
The first four whirrs are of approximately the same duration; the
last one notably longer than these. Verbatim transcription is here
resumed.]
9 :26. The whirring sounds which it is hoped are here recorded
on the dictaphone [as seen above, the hope was realizedJrepresent
ringing of l-IB. Walter called for Bird to assume control; Bird
took the three hands at his left [both of Crandon's and the Psy-
chic's right], as well as Crandon's head, on his shoulder. The
Psychic's head-band was visible throughout to all sitters; Richard-
son had her left hand; Richardson,- Gerke and Mrs. Hubbs all
reported that they could see the foot controls. The dictaphone
was now moved close to T; Bird placed left hand of Mrs. Hubbs
186 THE MARGER Y MEDIUMSHIP
on his knee [for control] , and operated dictating device with his
right hand, which was out of control [save as the successful opera-
tion of the machine controlled it]. HB rang one long peal. [Bird
was not quite ready, and did not get the dict aphone into operation
until after some considerable fraction of this peal had passed.]
Upon invitation from ·walter, Bird then asked for four peals [mak-
ing no statement as to their lengths]. These were given [the first
three of moderate length and] , the final one very much longer than
the others.
[Hubbs, standing behind dict aphone during this episode, was
apparently unable to reach the bell-box because of the position of
Bird's hand with the receiver, blocking him off. At the conclusion
of the episode, Hubbs wheeled the dict aphone back to its place and
r esumed his seat and his oper ation of the machine. On repetition
of the experiment under similar conditions, the person in Hubbs'
place will be instructed in advance to place his hands in control on
Bird's shoulders, and t o keep them there throughout.]
For balance of sitting, " control OK" [or" ordinary control"]
includes Richardson's cont rol of the Psychic's left hand, visibility
of her foot markers to R ichardson and Gerke, and of her head-band
to Bird at least.
9:35. After a lot of j oking by Walter as to whether he would
obey Bird's re'luest for two long rings followed by one short, HB
rang differently from this. T hen Bird est ablished control of the
three hands at his left and of Crandon's head [on his shoulder], and
with this plus all ordinar); control his request was met by HB.
W alte1
· then rang a long and complicated tempo on HB, most of
this occurring after Bird had [again] est ablished full control of
three hands and Crandon's head. All ordinary controls OK.
w·alter here whistled in accompaniment to HB.
9 :36. Bird in control of Psychic's right hand while Crandon
removed HB.
9:42. \Valtcr said he must go, and seance ended.
[As safeguard against accident to the record, before it was
removed from the carriage t he portion that records the HB ring-
ing was located; and Bird, Gerke and Hubbs listened to it and
verified that ringing was recorded, as above. The record was
brought safely to New York, and is now at 15 L exington Avenue.l
The hypnotic or hallucinatory theory is therefore disproved as a
generalization covering the bell-ringing, if not the other auditory
effects. Likewise, we have disproved as a generalization the theory
that the ringing is done by some other bell than that under attention
A.S.P.R. SEANCES: SECOND SERIES 187
at the given moment. For no other bell would have recorded; none
other being within five feet of the receiver, unless concealed and therefore
muffied in the clothing of some sitter. The dictaphone seems to have
been mastered, and to provide the ideal means of seance recording;
with the reservation that the proper operation of the machine in dark-
ness is not as simple as one might suppose, so that its use in important
experiments should be preceded by adequate practice and rehearsal.
For the rest, we face the obvious hazard of having the phenomena
of the present case diverted into a field from which we would prefer
to keep them away; and the course of the next series of sittings must
be watched with considerable trepidation lest this diversion be
continued.
CHAPTER XV
A Reversion to Teleplasmics
Seance Records and Comment
By the Editor
Owing to pressure of other engagements by the Psychic to sit with
informal friendly groups, it was found necessary to schedule the third
series of A.S.P.R. sittings a week earlier than they would otherwise
have been held. This brought them so close upon the series of July
16th-18th that Walter elected very pointedly to regard these sittings
as a continuation of those. The implication was that the trance and
the X silhouettings of the earlier series were to be continued and devel-
oped, into what "T
alter hoped would take the form of visible or photo-
graphable teleplasmic structural effects. The promise that he would
try to produce something for us to photograph was particularly
explicit.
Going into the series of July 23rd-25th, I wrote for my own refer-
ence the following memorandum:
The problem of personnel apparently will have to be dealt with
afresh for each series of Society sittings, for the present at 1east.
Conant being out of town on vacation, Gerke's services as photog-
rapher were secured. Dr. Horace Westwood, Unitarian minister
from Toledo and member of the Society, was to be in Boston on
the evening of the 23rd; and he was to be accompanied by Mr.
Joseph Dunipace, a .Toledo business man, who would be available
for all three of my evenings. I found it possible to take Mrs. Bird
to Boston for this series; Dr. Richardson was available but not
Mrs. Richardson; and ·a prominent Boston lawyer, Mr. Charles
S. Hill/ who was at the moment keenly interested in the case
through recent contact, was added to the group. It should be
recorded that the group went through the three evenings without
any addition of sitters; and that Walter expressed the keenest
satisfaction on this point, attributing his good results largely to
this factor.
In going into the first evening of this series, there was considerable
uncertainty as to just what the psychic program was to be. The
1 See page 449; also open reference No. 10, VQl. 2.
] 88
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 189
luminous control bands of course react strongly to the photographic
flashlight, and for some time after a picture they are of extreme bril-
liance, and of course give an effect of white light. On this account,
it is more or less the custom in Margery's seance room to omit them
when photographs are certainly going to be attempted. But we were
not certain, on the first evening of the present series, that this would
be attempted; and we feared thai! there might be a good deal of tele-
kinesis; luminous silhouetting, etc., which would be rendered largely
worthless in the absence of hand and foot control. We therefore
(;dfected a compromise; we omitted the wrist bands as being most dis-
tracting to the psychic and most nearly dispensable through applica-
tion of routine personal control, but we retained the luminous controls
-of ankles and forehead.
There had been considerable discussion as to the means through
which Walter had rung the Hole Bell-box,2
with the holes sealed against
physical access of any sort. Examining the box with this problem in
view, I had reached a working hypothesis which was entirely tenable
so far as events had yet gone. The crack between the hinged side and
the top of the box I found to be wide enough for insertion of r.. pen-
knife blade; and using such means to get access to the interior of the
box and to depress the floating contact board, the bell could be rung
easily and freely. The crack, unde1~ this theory, was being used as a
substitute for the holes. On the 17th, before performing with HB,
Walter had had the box turned around, so that the side carrying this
crack was facing the Psychic ;8
and this, despite the fact that the metal
padlock was on that side, whereas he has usually requested that the
SAB be placed with the padlock side away from her. This seemed
good evidence pointing toward's \Valter's use of the crack as a means
.of ringing the bell.
On the other hand, I had put this evidence before Walter during
the seance of the 18th; and while he would not deny in so many wordE
that he used the crack, he offered to bet that he could ring the HB
with all holes and the entire length of the crack sealed. Accordingly,
for the new series of sittings, in addition to the cardboard strip care-
fully tacked over the luminous holes, a long strip of surgeon's tape was
carefully put over the crack, from end to end. Prior to each seance
the cardboard was removed, the paint about the holes activated, and·
2 See pp. 177, 178, 179, 130; Chap. XI in toto; and rpp. 3,36-7.
s See page 178, bottom.
190 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the cardboard replaced ; so that removal of this shiel~ during the
seance could not be effected. No luminous marking was used beneath
the tape, because of its narrowness; and no marks were made across
~his and on to the box, because if this were done a second and a third
time it was feared that confusion between the several sets of marks
would result. But the folds, creases and other irregularities of attach-
ment of the tape had my very careful attention, and these were quite
adequate to insure against its removal and replacement in darkness.
For the present series of sittings Westwood made the rather
ambitious suggestion that we give Walter a chance to deal with some-
thing inside a closed and sealed space. I accordingly purchased six
pill-boxes of such size that they could be nested, one inside another.
Certain objects known only to Westwood and myself, and one of
which we believed it would be impossible to duplicate, were placed in the
smallest box; all the other boxes were placed about this, in turn; and
each box was carefully sealed by means of signatures or thumbprints
of Westwood or myself. One might hope for either of two things:
for a positive identification by V\Talter of the objects in this package,
or for an apport of one of them out of the package. In point of fact,
while this assembly (NPB: nested pill-boxes) was present more or less
during the present sittings, \iValter gave it no attention.3
a
Operation of the dictaphone through an intermediary had not
proved altogether satisfactory. It necessarily involved a loss of time
and a doubling of vocal noise. Then the assistant did not always
understand exactly what I wanted to go on the record; and he was
always liable to pay undue attention to remarks by other sitters which
struck me as not pertinent, or even to arguments about the record
which might arise between various sitters and myself. Of course such
arguments always had to be settled, in or out of the seance room,
before the record could be regarded as finished and approved by the
sitters. But when I dictate into a machine there is certainty that no
discussion among the sitters gets recorded in an intermediate or unset-
tled stage, and when I dictate into a human ear this certainty is absent.
Equally, when I dictate into the machine I am able, if the circum-
stances require, to leave the argument in a state of suspense for extra-
seance discussion, the results of such discussion to go into the interpola-
tory matter; whereas the human agent, knowing that he must properly
put in much that comes from other mouths than mine, will probably
sa Nor did he ever subsequently return to this apparatus.-J. M. B.
)
)
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 191
not know when or how best to hold the record in such suspense. The
dictation for 9:46 on August 12th (page 219) gives a fair sample of
the sort of situation that is better handled by dictation to a .machine
than to a human being.
Against all this, there had to be considered the fact that if I
attempted to run the machine myself, while my command of the record
would be absolute, and while time would be conserved and needless noise
eliminated, it was not clear to what degree my ability to sit in the
circle, control my neighbors and observe my control of them, and
observe the phenomena themselves, would be curtailed. I decided to
e:x;periment with this direct operation of the dictaphone, during the
present series, in the effort to determine how the advantages checked
up against the disadvantages. I found that at times there was conflict
between close observation and close attention to producing the best
record. I found also an unanticipated drawback, in that Crandon
was apt to feel that I ought to be observing at moments when I was
dictating, or vice versa; and that failure to alter my course in accord-
ance with his ideas led to more or less tension. On the whole, however,
I found the disadvantages far outweighed by the advantages; and I
definitely decided to do all my seance recording in this way until some
better technique presented itself.
No break is involved in the circular control when I sit in the circle
and operate the dictaphone. My right-hand neighbor takes my right
wrist instead of my hand, since the latter must be free to handle the
mouthpiece with its switch; his hand is then under a control as rigid
as usual, while mine is fairly well controlled by his, and in addition
could engage in unauthorized activity only by sacrificing the record.
When I come to the end of a cylinder, it is necessary for both my hands
to go completely out of control to remove the old cylinder and put on
a new one; if I try to do this with hands on my wrists I am too likely
to drop one of the cylinders or strike it against metal with sufficient
force to break it. While I am changing the records my neighbors
continue under control; for this purpose I need only place their hands
on my respective knees. The dictaphone stand is placed partly be--
tween me and my right-hand neighbor (I speak now of the Marger)
procedure specifically, and not of the general case), partly in the spac;c
behind us. The space between us is thus widened; and were it not for
the support afforded by the armchairs, we could hardly maintain our
hand-contact for the hour, plus, to which these sittings run.
192 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The above represents a subsequent editing of my rough notes
of July, 1925. No material has been added, but the notes were not
in such. condition that they could be presented ·intelligibly in their
original form. \Ve come now to the seance records:
Seance .of July 23rd, 1925: 10 Lime Street. Dictaphonic
record, by Bird with aid of other sitters; transcribed verbatim,
with parenthetic elaborations by Bird.
Circle formed at 9:00 P.M. [and seance held in total darkness
save for red-light and flashlight intervals noted in record]. Order,
clockwise: Psychic, Richardson, Westwood, Hill, Bird, Crandon,
Psychic again. Two cameras set up [in. north of room], beari!tg
upon the Psychic and the table. Gerke in room, free, attending to
these. On sofa [in northeast corner]: Mrs. Bird, Dunipace and
[as guest of the evening] Mrs. Bradford Holmes [of New York ;
member, A.S.P.R.J. Bird operated dictaphone from his seat in
circle. [Psychic in robe and stockings or slippers, apparently
under her own supervision; this note supplied too long after seance
to permit of certainty on these points.] Initially the Psychic had
but three luminous controls, those on the wrists being omitted.
[Continuous victrola, as always; no further attempt was made to
keep track of the tune of the evening, so this condition may be
understood to apply in future sittings, without specific mention.]
On T initially, HB and NPB.
9 :21 [after longest interval of waiting yet experienced in th(:
Society sittings, and after some sitters had expressed fears of a
blank]. Walter whistled in C. The voice was of unusual loud-
ness; and, as heard from Bird's seat [seemed] unusually far out
from C.
9 :24. Continued loud conversation by Walter, apparently ant-
side C. Discussing possibility of getting photos tonight, Walter
expresses fear lest the flashlight dissolve his teleplasmic formations.
9:30. [There was] overlap between Walter's conversation and
a sound [heard butJ not identified by Bird; but stated by Crandon
[Richardson and Gerke] to be the Psychic's yawn.
9:34. Prolonged whispering and whistling by Walter, louder
than ever before heard by Bird. Richardson reports whistling
beyond C, toward victrola. Crandon says this was right at his left
ear. Richardson reports whistling now in his right ear; and ft-om
Bird's seat the effect is distinctly as though from that region.
[The room temperature was such that it had been felt necessary
to install a fan; it stood on the floor, approximately behind West-
wood.] Westwood repor.ts breeze opposing . that from the fan;
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 193
Richardson concurs. [There had been strong suspicion several
times previously that this was occurring; this was the first time
anybody was willing to report it positively.]
9:35. Westwood says the whistling is now facing him, appar-
ently far forward in [or in front of] C. For several minutes
Walter has been whistling practically continuously, and in this time
he has covered the entire tune ["All Alone"] being played tonight
on the victrola. The whistling shifts rapidly in appar ent locus
[in general, not pointedly at this instant; and when it specifically
did so at this instant] the Psychic's luminous head-band was visible
and motionless. Extremely loud Walter whistling and whispering
continued, apparently out over T. It is now 9:37. [Practically
everything vValter said tonight was audible without the least diffi-
culty to those on the sofa, who usually have had about all they
can do to satisfy themselves that the whispering is present at all.]
9 :38. Red light given while luminous wristbands are placed
upon the Psychic, by \Valter's instructions. Control then restored
and light off. [At ·walter's instructions,] light given again to
remove NPB from T. It is now 9:39.
9 :41. Crandon reports the Psychic in trance, together with
some delay on his part in making the report. [She was not in
trance during last red-light interval.] Crandon reports movement
by the Psychic's right hand on her thigh, and fingering of his hand
by hers. [Reports of this sort are rendered to Bird through
duplication, by Crandon's hand on Bird's, of effect being produced
by the Psychic. In this instance it was a slight stroking of finger
on finger characteristic of the Psychic in the seance room, whether
· entranced or normal.] Richardson reports motion on considerable
scale of Psychic's right hand, and Hill of her foot [the latter being
observed visually].
9 :44. One long peal from HB [in spite of the sealing of all
orifices through which Bird has been able to ring it by normal
means].
9 :45. Control shifted so that Richardson has both the Psy-
chic's hands and Bird both of Crandon's. [Here the record carries
two whirring noises ; fairly long, close together, fainter than thosr
of the July 18th record, but unmistakably audible.] The mouth-
piece [has just been] open while the bell gave several long and shoTt
peals; the distance is such that Bird questions whether they wjJl
record. [Apparently all did not.] Several short peals [were
given] during dictation [of preceding sentence; but on the record
they are not distinguishable through Bird's voice] .
9:47. [Three whirrs, approximately equal in length and close
194 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
together, here occur on the record; their strength is about as
before.] At Bird's request, HB rang three peals; Crandon's head
was on Bird's elbow in addition to the other [usual] controls, [but
time was lacking to set up extra control by Bird of the Psychic's
right hand, which was therefore controlled by Crandon alone. The
dictaphone was open at the same distance from HB as before; and
as the above parenthesis shows,] the ringing was successfully
recorded. [The record is preserved at 15 Lexington Ave. J The
conventional circle was restored at the end of this episode. Crandon
reports patting of the Psychic's thigh by her hand.
9 :49. Bird removes HB from T at ' iValter's request; he was
out of control while doing this, but his neighbors were controlled
through their hands on his knees. 'iVhile Bird was thus engaged,
Westwood reported a touch inside his left knee. Hill reports hav-
ing felt, about the same time, a touch inside his left knee; he failed
to report it promptly, thinking it Bird's knee. Bird says it was
not his knee. Hill reports the touch again during this dictation.
[At the moment of contact no sitter had an eye on the luminous
anklets; but immediately after, Hill reports them visible and
motionless.]
9 :51. Psychic's right hand [identified by Crandon] heard
scratching on T. Richardson reports concurrent movement of
left arm.
9 :52. Richardson reports, in general, much motion by the
Psychic tonight.
9 :55. Walter gives the signal for Gerke to get ready and for
the other sitters to get out of the camera's field. Richardson and
Crandon [at Walter's instruction] remove the luminous controls
from the Psychic, the circle being maintained save at their points of
contact with her. [Walter stated here that the brightness of the
control bands would bother him in "withdrawing."J3
b
9 :58. Control restored immediately after above. [The
apparent undue lapse of time was caused by the fact that Walter
had ordered the luminous headband removed, as well as the wrist-
lets; but] the Psychic in trance refused to permit Crandon to
3b Here again we have our hostile critic, with the insistence that if this measure
is ever necessary it ought always to be so; and with a deadly parallel between the
situation existing here, and that discussed in the textual insert of page 202, witllin
the first paragraph of the July 25th record. The critic of favorable disposition will
probably reply simply to the effect that, if the procedure of withdrawal were a
fraudulent one, the objection "if ever, then always" would apply even more sti·ongly.
I have discussed the general principle here involved in a paragraph of the text
inserted just before the 9:19 dictation for June 18th; see page 147, as well as
page 202, referred to immediately above; ancl, finally, page 213.-J. M. B.
A R EVERSION TO TELEPLASMI CS 195
[touch her head sufficiently to] do this, and·he had to be content
with turning it over, bright side down. H e then reported that the
P sychic withdrew her right hand for a moment, and suggested that
.she took off this control herself. [Walter protested vigorously
against the inclusion of this item in the record; Crandon seemed
inclined to support both w·alter in objecting to it and Bird in
putting it in. The seance proceeded only after the situation had
been cleared up, as recorded in next entry.]
10 :00. Red light given at 'iValter's insist ence [to remove head-
band and to check up against the preceding freedom of the Psy-
chic's hand]. Crandon report s that the Psychic again fought
removal of the band [but that this time he got it off]. The circle
was rejoined at 10 :01, after all sitters saw in red light that the T
"\vas empty.
10 :01. The Psychic's head [fell forward J upon T, her right
hand at the left of the head and carrying Crandon's with it. [This
l1and] immediately returned to its natural place at east of T.
10 :03. 'iValter gives signal for the photo; the flashlight misses
fire. Gerke is permitted [by vValter] to use his red torch to reload
the flash pan. In the interval, the Psychic is in extremely deep
trance, marked by snores and other vocalization.
10:06. Crandon observes and R ichardson verifies [respiratory
·effect by the Psychic, sufficiently similar to] " Cheyne-Stokes
breathing" [to constit ute a notable symptom of the trance. Any
alarm which might have been felt was prevented by previous obser-
vations that this effect is apt to ensue in deep trance by Margery.
For a description of the effect, see Encyclopedia Britannica,
E leventh Edition, Vol. 6, p. 749; and note also mention of this
effect in article on H ibernation, as sometimes characterizing the
latter phenomenon]. This effect was followed, perhaps half a
minute later, by breathing sounds similar to flow of wat er through
.a pipe.4
The Psychic's head then returned to T .
10 :09. The signal for the flashlight was again given [ and this
time it was sprung successfully ]. l<ollowing the flash, the extreme
brilliance of the particles of luminous paint [with which the table-
top has, in long course, become impregnat ed, made it in effect a
luminous plaque, which J shows the Psychic in silhouette, in a state
of [apparent] collapse. There was an interval of perhaps two
minutes [of absolute inertness ] between the flash and her first
audible respiration. Richardson reports the pulse about normal
in rat e and volume during this intervaL
4 Cf. my experience with Mrs. Lconm·d: lYly Psychic Adven;tu~·es, p. 135.
196 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
10 :15. [Considerable conversation ensued with \Valter after
the Psychic's recovery from collapse but while she remained in
trance.] \Valter says her face ought to appear [in the picture]
as though covered with mesh or lace, and swollen. At least, this
would be the case if visibility could have been established in the
dark; he is uncertain what modification the presence of the white
flashlight may effect. He promises that tomorrow night he will
try to show teleplasmic formations on the Psychic's face, in red
light before the flash.
10:16. The Psychic came out of ttance while Walter was stili
present and talking.
10:17. Walter says good-night. Crandon's usual effort to
provoke a word from him, in red light after this JS giVen, was a
failure.
The photographic plate was developed by Gerke and seen, in
the glass negative, by all sitters before leaving the house. The
Psychic's face was thought to be swollen, and a white [on negative]
fringed effect was thought to be visible, like a beard, about its
lower part.
Seance of July 24th, 1925: 10 Lime Street. Dictaphone
record, by Bird with aid of other sitters; transcribed verbatim,
with parenthetic elaboration by Bird.
Circle formed at 9 :06 [and seance held in total darkness save
for red light and flashlight intervals noted in record]. Order,
clockwise : Psychic, Richardson, Hill, Bird, Crandon, Psychic
agam. Two cameras as last night; Gerke in charge and free in
room. On sofa: Dunipace and Mrs. Bird. [Bird operating dic-
taphone from seat in circle, as last night.] Owing to the photo-
graphic program, all luminous controls of the Psychic omitted for
this evening. [Psychic in robe and slippers only, as usual; she
changed into this under Mrs. Bird's supervision.] HB initially
on T; no illuminated apparatus present save one doughnut [which
was not called for and not used].
9:07. Walter's voice heard immediately on extinction of the
light. Walter instructs that red light be given and sitters from
the sofa inserted in the circle. While this was going on Walter's
whistle was heard in full red light; [no eye was on the Psychic's
lips at the moment]. New circle, clockwise: Psychic, Richardson,
Mrs. Bird, Hill, Dunipace, Bird, Crandon, Psychic again. [The
record at this point carries a faint impression of Walter's whistle,
audible through Bird's dictation. J ·
9 :11. :E.ights out on the revised circle. Walter whistled at
A REVERSION '1'0 TELEPLASl\HCS 197
once [and .this whistling is audible on the r ecord through Bird's
voice] .
9 :13. Walter's voice and whistle are as brilliant as last night
[here the whistle is audible through the dict ation] in all respects
[the whistle is again audible on the recordJ. T he Walter whistle
is heard from very high in C, as well as from points apparently
well out over T, etc.
9:15. Continuous conversation and whistling by VV'alter.
[Numerous snat ches of the whistling appear on the record here ;
see the lattei· part of the next paragraph.J
9:22. [A dark megaphone, DM, has been on floor of C at
P sychic's right initially, as is usually the case wit h this medium-
ship. ThisJ DM, which according to Crandon has been in air for
some time, is now reported by him to have returned to the floor.
R ed light. given at. Walter's instruction to remove H B from T.
During the interval preceding this dict ation, Bird had been making
efforts to record the Walter whistle [holding the dict aphone mouth-
piece open and directed t o C at moments of clear, loud whistling ;
and he continued these efforts after this dict ation]. DM heard in
motion. [A brilliant series of whistles is recorded here.] Vvalter
was sufficiently interested in the attempt t o record his whistling
[brought to his attention by the. preceding dictation], to give
numerous loud blasts, apparently far from C and very close to
dictaphone. It is hoped that some, at least, of these will be
recorded in the interval preceding this dict ation. [It will be seen
that they were, and very freely. Following this dictation, the
record carries further audible whistling.J
9:25. Crandon reports semi-trance. Half a minute later, [he
reportsJ deep trance. Since trance period began, vValter whis-
pering and whistling [haveJ lessened; [but he greets this dictation
with a fresh outburst , audible on the record through the dictation
in the absence of any effort by Bird to catch it]. Deep snores
from the entranced Psychic.
9:26. ['Vith trance of less than one full minute's st anding,]
in two-second period of red light [given, as throughout, at Walter's
directionJ, the entire side of the Psychic's face is seen by all sitters
to be covered with a network of white subst ance. T he head is
inclined to the left [so that the uppermost] right side is affected.
Richardson and Crandon stat e that hand control of the Psychic
has been continuous since the lights went out at the start of the
seance. The description as " network " should' be amplified. The
mass lay, not in fine lines, but rather in heavy bands perhaps half
an inch wide ; with large empt y meshes between, some of these as
198 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
much as an inch across. Richardson suggests the simile: like
hanks of cotton yarn as seen at the factory.
9 :27. Further period of two seconds of red light. The entire
top of the Psychic's head and much of the face are now seen covered
solidly with the white mass. Long low groans are heard from her.
V',T alter states that this white teleplasm, different in color from that
produced for Dingwall," is what apparitions are made of. The
Psychic continues groaning in trance. Dim red light for two sec-
onds leads to disagreement among the sitters as to the teleplasmic
details; so \iValter orders bright red light for two seconds more.
The Psychic's entire head and face are seen now covered by the
white mass. Similes applied by Crandon and Richardson in descrip-
tion of the appearance both carry the idea of a textile fabric.
Everybody agrees that while this is a just simile as far as it goes,
the appearance is not that of any cloth [known to them]. The
vocal effect in trance suggests obstruction in breathing by the
teleplasmicG mass.
9:30. In spite of the difficulty in breathing, the Walter voice
seems unimpaired. VValter states that the white mat erial issues
from the ears. In a further period of two seconds of r ed light, the
general position of the mass seems lower and it appears more con-
solidated. It is possible that the teleplasmic veil is as high as
before, merely extending to a lower poii).t. Richardson reports
violent efforts by the Psychic's left harrd to reach the face, without
success.
[It should be noted that while Walter always called for "two
seconds," of red light, and while the record follows him in this, the
interval actually given was seldom if ever so short. Crandon's
interest, and his knowledge of the other sitters' interest, lead him
to stretch the exposures to red light. Once Bird counted five full
seconds during one of these " two second " intervals. This remark
also calls attention to the failure to state heretofore, in the records
of this series, that at all times Crandon handles the light switch.
Bird cannot conceive of circumstances which would impel him to
intrust this to another person. J
9:34. Walter calls for preparation for a photo. Then he
says, " Shoot, any time." There is a slight delay as Gerke pre-
s See Chapter II.
6 The original records of this period employ always the words ectoplasm, ecto-
plasmic. Inasmuch as the Society has abandoned this term, turning it over to ortho-
dox biology in the interests of its long-established use there in another connection,
I have throughout substituted the newer and more expedient terminology.-J. M. B.
PLA'l'E 9. THE PHOTOGRAPH OF JULY 24, 1925 i 9 :35 0 'CLOCK. \VHI'l'E TELEI'LASMIU MASS, ARISING APPARENTLY OUT OF THE RIGHT
EAR AND ALMOS'l' W HOLLY COVERING THE FACE. THE APPEARANCE IS SOMEWHAT '!'HAT OF A SHEEI' 1
S OMENTUM.
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 199 :
pares the second camera for action, with the Psychic groanmg.
Crandon reports vigorous shakil).g by her hand.
9 :35. Just as Gerke was about to shoot, the red light was
given for a second or so [so that there might be a visual check
against the photo]. All sitters clearly see the teleplasmic mass ,
on the Psychic's face and head, with the exception of Richardson,
who was looking elsewhere, and Mrs. Bird, whose eyes were closed
in anticipation of the flash. After the flash, the teleplasmic mass
gave a faint luminous effect; it was not nearly so bright as the T
with its particles of luminous paint, but none the less visible to all
the sitters.
It may be well to point out, here, that if the teleplasmic mass is of
genuine character, it represents a substance quite new and unknown
to the sitters. When we feel it, we get a sensation presumably not cor-
responding exactly to anything in our past experience; when we look
at it, the same factor is present. We can attempt to describe our
visual and tactile experiences with the teleplasm only in terms of past
experiences through these senses with other specific substances. vVe
employ the utmost freedom of simile in this sense, without any intent
to reflect upon the validity of the teleplasm. Similarly, we make this
remark without any intent to imply that the teleplasm is to. be taken
as necessarily valid.
Further: a very interesting suggestion is made by one who has
read the above in proof, and who wants to know what impressions the
sitters had as to the color of the after-luminous teleplasm; whether
this effect could not have been an after-image; and particularly, what
Mrs. Bird, whose eyes were closed during the flash, had to report. The
color was the same whitish or gray-whitish effect seen in afterglow
by the luminous paint; the adjectives just used being not wholly
satisfactory until the reader explicitly adds to them, in his mind,
appreciation of the fact that the effect is distinctly a luminous one.
The suggestion that an after-image was involved is disposed of by the
unanimous verdict of all sitters to the effect that they have to look
at the teleplasm in order to see it; that if they turn their eyes elsewhere,
anything that they may see is of different form. And again, while
Mrs. ·Bird cannot at the late date when interrogated recall the details
of the present experience, it is the positive observation of various other
sitters that a person whose eyes are closed during the flash, after
opening them sees the same after-glow as the others, and sees it in the
200 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
same place. At the time when this paragraph is written, there is
available nothing beyond this distinctly ea: post facto statement. At
the first opportunity, I shall get contemporaneous testimony on this
point from specific sitters and in connectioi1 with a specific seance; and
I hope to have such testimony in time to publish it along with the other
statements of endorsement or repudiation by the sitters, which I have
promised the reader on page 3.
9:38. Crandon reports that the Psychic carries his hand to
her chest, and directs it in feeling the cold mass thereon [edited in
transcription to eliminate ambiguity]. Walter expresses willing-
ness for Bird to do the same. There is considerable difficulty over-
coming the reluctance of the entranced Psychic to permit this, but
it is finally effected. Bird finds the mass soft, slightly cool, dis-
tinctly [of a plastic surface and] not of the nature of a textile
fabric. Another sitter supplies the word "rubbery," which comes
fairly close to Bird's sensations.
9 :40. Bird is left in control of the Psychic's right hand as
Crandon goes for a cloth with which to cover the luminous table
[following the flashlight. He brings a white sheet for this
purpose].
9 :42. Gerke is reloading his flashpan with the aid of a red
torch. The Psychic's head is apparently forward on T. Crandon
reports that he feels teleplasmic cord running along her right thigh.
[This seems to contradict V\Talter's statement about the present
manifestations, and to throw us back ·into the Dingwall period.]
Much moaning and groaning by the Psychic. [Because of its
similarity in color to the teleplasm,] Crandon suggests that the
sheet Ga be moved off T before the next photo is made. The sheet at
once moves off T toward Crandon. Richardson is positive that
the hand controlled by him had nothing to do with this. Crandon
thought the hand controlled by him [and which lay on the corner
of the table at this momentJ was pushed by the sheet rather than
vice veTsa [but he put this forward only as an impression].
9 :45. Groaning, moaning, blowing, restlessness, vocal com-
plaint. Flash being reloaded and plates in cameras changed.
9:46. Second flashlight sprung. [Some sitters were taken by
surprise and blinded; all others report] marked visibility of the
teleplasmic material [immediately] after the flash. There is a pro-
nounced cobwebby, stalactitic effect; no particles are detached
from the mass [yet the word " dripping " characterizes the general
effect]. Another simile strongly approved [by some sitters] is
sa See page 213.
PLA'fE 10. J ULY 24, 1925 j 9:46 P.M. j SECOND PHOTOGRAPH OF THIS SEANCE. 'ri-m GENERAL APPEARANCE IS AS THAT OF THE
PREVIOUS EXPOSURE, ONLY 'l'HE POSITION OF THE PSYCHIC AND OF THE TELEPLASMIC MASS VARYING, WITH SOME OF THE DETAILS
OF THE LAT'l'ER,
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 201
that of pulled chewing gum or candy. Hill reports contact by
back of his hand [under what guidance is not indicated] with a
rough, .cool, stringy mass. Bird [out of control] changing record
[and dictation lags temporarily on the same ground].
9 :51. [When the Psychic's head went up after the second
flashlight, there remained on T a dark, silhouetted mass. At first
taken merely to be a dark zone in T, this turned out to be the tele-
plasmic mass itself, in silhouette. It was this that Hill felt.]
Mrs. Bird [next] felt the teleplasmic mass on T. She describes it
in terms of rough, cold dough. Dunipace had the same experience;
he agrees partly with Mrs. Bird's description but suggests that the
feeling is also that of rubber. All having the experience agree that
the temperature is cool but not cold. Walter reports the teleplas-
mic mass gone from T; he requests that the sitters relax and pay
him no attention. Mrs. Bird says the temperature was almost
exactly that of dough made from cold hydrant water. Walter
endorses this.
9 :55. Walter and the Psychic are now both fairly quiet, but
the trance is still a plaintive .one. There is considerable restless-
ness by the Psychic [immediately following this], both her feet
being momentarily on Hill's knees. In response to Crandon's query,
Walter states that his "gang," previously stated to comprise seven
[for the present night], all helped him; he could not give the tele-
plasmic performance alone. The Psychic's foot is beating on
the floor.
10:00. Violent convulsion of C heard by all. According to
reports by Richardson and Crandon, this was certainly not done
by either of the Psychic's arms. C continues apparently to be
hauled around violently. [Bird here cites previous experience in
connection with the disappointing amount of net motion observed
by C after an appalling racket.] The Psychic's hands are
[reported] under control, and quiet; violent perturbations of C
continue.
10 :01. Another spasm [of this]. Loud whistle, reported by
Crandon as through DM. [It was not so heard by Bird, who would
have taken it to be an ordinary 'iValter whistle, without any "trim-
mings."] DM was next moment thrown upon T, then fell to the
floor between Mrs. Bird and Hill. There has been no interruption
in the hand control [of the PsychicJ since the last red-light interval,
Crandon and Richardson report.7
7 See M. M., p. 1~8, for significance of this.
202 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
10:03. The Psychic is out of trance. Walter requests that
the sitters leave quickly, without" hanging around."
10:05. Bright red light given for five seconds, then turned off
again, at Walter's request. He states that when we see a genuine
materialization, the substance used to-night is used, becoming
luminous. Among his difficulties in the seance-room he gives light
and heat a leading place. In dismissing us, he suggests that Mrs.
Bird make examination of the Psychic. [This was done. Mrs.
Bird left the room with the Psychic. She reports later that she
examined the Psychic nude, with particular attention to hair and
ears. The Psychic handed her robe to Mrs. Bird as she stepped
out of it, and this too was examined with care. Bird himself
examii1ed the cabinet with care as soon as the Psychic vacated it.
All findings here were negative.
The plates were developed by Gerke and examined (in negative)
by the sitters before leaving the premises. Both corresponded
closely with what was seen in red light preceding or white light
during the flashes.
The dictaphone cylinder carrying the Walter whistles is pre-
served at 15 Lexington Ave.]
Seance of July 25th, 1925: 10 Lime Street. Dictaphonic
record by Bird, with aid of other sitters; transcribed verbatim, with
parenthetic elaboration by Bird.
Circle formed at 9:07 [and seance held in total darkness
throughout, save for red light and flashlight intervals noted in
record J. Order, clockwise: Psychic, Richardson, Mrs. Bird, Hill,
Dunipace, Bird, Crandon, Psychic again. Cameras in place as
previously and Gerke in attendance. Illuminated apparatus pres-
ent, but on floor at east of C, concealed under a sheet pending indi-
cations of what VValter proposes to do. Luminous controls of the
Psychic were omitted in anticipation of possible photography.
A certain contradiction appears to exist between this statement,
and the confession appearing in the dictation for 10:09, July 23rd,
that the table itself is luminous after the flash. It will however be
appreciated that there is on the table no single luminous area of
anything like the extent presented by the control bands. The paint
on the table, visible only under conditions comparable to those of
the post-flashlight period, is almost entirely in flecks of very small
size, or else in very narrow lines where it has run along the grain of
the wood. The outline of the Psychic is faintly visible when these
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 203
areas are luminescing and when she then falls forward upon the table;
but when she remains upright, there seldom if ever seems to be enough
light from the luminescent table to constitute a drawback under any
theory. Further; when she remains upright this light is much farther
from her than that of the luminous controls. Hence if there is any
valid physical objection to the presence of light in the seance room,
it ought to be far more essential to darken the controls than the t able.
The skeptic, however, will doubtless still feel that while the table
remains in any degree luminous, it is silly to obj ect to the presence
of the control bands. The controls, of course, are visible throughout
the sitting and the table only for a little while after the fl ash; and
this will constitute an illuminating comparison between their relative
candle-powers. I would insist on this comparison more confidently,
were it not that once or twice, in seances where the responsibility for
the record has not been mine, vValter actually has obj ccted to the
luminous table and has required that a sheet be put over it. He is
more likely, however, to ask that this protection be given him, as it
was here, from a pile of luminously marked objects which often stands
beside the cabinet awaiting use, and which is very noticeable indeed
after a flashlight. The matter comes up again on p. 213.
Further interesting speculations might be indulged in, and further
interesting comparisons in candle-power adduced, as between the con-
trol bands and the luminous plaques, et c., upon which teleplasmic
structures are often laid in direct contact teJith the paint. The candle-
power of the red light is also of an order equal to or greater than that
of the luminous objects ordinarily present; but of a different wave-
length, of course. If there is a physical factor of light-inhibition, it
of course would be different for different parts of the spectrum and
would afford justification for the use of red light where white is banned.
Indeed, whether this is the case, or whether the obj ections to light are
a wholly subj ective factor of the medium's own mind, has been freely
discussed for years; and when the question came up in the Paris Con-
gress of 1917, there was a sharp cleavage of opinion among 7
a recognized
authorities. If it were ultimately adjudged that t he objection to light
is entirely subjective, the extreme inconsistency of procedure with lights
of different characteristics, seen not only in the present records but
in all mediumships, would be completely explained. This completes the
present interpolated discussion, and we return to the record:
731 J ournal, A .S.P.R., Dec., 1927, p. 680.
204 THE MAR GE RY MEDIUMSHIP
[The P sychic in robe and slippers only, to which she changed
under Mrs. Bird's supervision.] On T initially, four balls of model-
ling clay, one on each cor ner. [A new record," R ememberin'," from
"Topsy and E va," caused some delay through the effort to make
the music softer ; and there was a telephone call for Crandon.]
The seance finally got under way [with lights out] at 9:11.
9 :13. Walter voice and whistle.
9:14. Among other observations of the extreme mobility of
VValter's voice, Mrs. Bird and Hill join in reporting whispers from
him, apparently in the space between their heads. Richardson
reports a touch with DM, which was initially in C [ as usual, stand-·
ing on the floor at the Psychic's extreme right]. E xtreme mobility
of w·alter whistle continues.
9 :17. Observations on the mobility of the whistle suggest
strongly that tonight there are two distinct "whistlers," and that
one of them has to a considerable extent been working in the corner
by the victrola. [An extremely] clear observation [is made] by
Bird and Crandon of a whistle outside C, to the east, behind
Crandon.
9:20. R ed light given to remove the modelling clay from T , at
'i\Talter's instructions. One of the four balls was found cut in two,
as per announcement mad.e a little earlier by Walter . Apparently
[this had been] done with the edge of M. Richardson and Crandon
here report that the Psychic has been in trance for some seconds,
perhaps as much as a minute. [The onset was much gentler than
ever befo re in these sittings. ]
9 :23. R ed light given for several seconds, revealing a white
mass on the P sychic's right shoulder . Crandon and Mrs. Bird
report visibility of a connecting cord running to the right ear.
W alter responds to this dictation by calling for bright red light
for two seconds so that all may see the cord. All see it. Crandon
and Richardson report a resemblance to a trachea. On renewal
of the bright red light for two seconds, Mrs. Bird reports frayed
appearance of cord, and Bird a twist ed effect. All saw the cord
here. Walter had stated, on the first exposure of the material on
the P sychic's shoulder, that it was a materialization of the thing
with which he t alks. [It was in fact long and narrow, suggesting
a larynx, trumpet, or something of the sort. The long diamet er
ran from front to back of the P sychic. The ear-cord joined quite
near the rear end, and the front end was considerably the larger
of the two.]
9 :25. Dim red light for five seconds. All t eleplasmic material
is gone from the right shoulder ; in its place, a U-shaped mass over-
PLA'l'E 11. T HE FIRST OF FOUR FLASHLIGHTS 'l'AKEN ON J ULY 25, 1925 i 'l'IIIS ONE AT 9 :34 P .M. THE 'l'ELEPLASM I S OF PltECISELY
THE SAME TYPE AS ON 'l'HE PREVIOUS EVENING, BU'l' I N DETAIL IT SHOWS CONSIDERABLE VARIATION.
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 205
lies the right side of the head, as the head inclines to the left. The
ear is exposed in the middle of the U. A fresh interval of red
light is given [in response to this dictation], to verify Walter's
correction that the ear is not exposed; this is found to be the fact.
In this view, the rear arm of the U is much heavier than the front
one; and Bird thought the arms joined at top and bottom, making
it now a crude 0 instead of aU. [Hill endorsed this emphaticalJy.]
Numerous sitters accept Gerke's suggestion that the appearance
[in color and texture] is that of pie dough. Walter's correction
that it is whiter than pie dough is accepted by the sitters.
9 :27. In dim red light for two seconds, the front limb of this
0-shaped object is seen to run straight down the Psychic's face
[hanging down thence over the chin] to the breastbone. The rear
limb is as previously described and .in approximately the same
position as before. Those sitters able to see the Psychic's left ear
also report a branch of the teleplasmic mass overlying it, and
dangling like a rubber band.
9:30. Walter says: "Look at this and see whether you want
a picture of it. The mass of teleplasm overlying the Psychic's
face is very notable. Considerable discussion ensues by the sitters
whether to take a picture. Mainly at 'iValter's motion [with
promise of much better e:ll'ects a little later] it is decided not to do
so for the moment.
9 :32. "Look at it now," says Walter. The head is turned to
the left, exposing the right side [which isJ overlain with consider-
able masses of teleplasm, and a cord shows, running to the right
ear. " Do you like this better? " asks Walter ; all agree that they
do. The Psychic's head is inclined forward and to the left; masses
of teleplasm are visible all over the face; [there is] a visible cord
to the ear, and long particles dangle down the front of the
Psychic's robe.
9 :33. Preparing for the flash. [Walter has indicated that
we may take photos almost ad lib. to-night. J
9:34. Gerke ready. Walter ready. In red light before and
during the flash, and in luminescence from T afterwards, long
masses of teleplasm are again seen overlying the Psychic's face
and dangling down in front. It waves in air and sways about, a
foot and a half from her head as this swings forward. After
remaining distinctly visible for some seconds, the teleplasmic mass
partly fades from view as the Psychic leans further back into C.
(This observation and dictation were made in fumbling fashion,
and the record has been edited for smoother accord with the facts
as they presently developed.) [It is believed that there was no
206 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
possibility of seeing an oblique connection between motion of the
Psychic's head and that of the tcleplasm, but no sitter is willing
to make the etc post facto negation in stronger terms than these.
All agree that the head moved slowly and steadily forward, came
to rest, and presently withdraw to a point further back than that
from which it started; and that during this simple excursion and
return, the teleplasmic mass swayed back and forward several
times, at a different and faster rate.rb Brilliant whistling hom
Walter. Crandon and Richardson report that hand control has
been continuous since the seance began.
9 :35. VValter forbids Gerke to use the red torch for the
moment. A dark cloth is placed over the freshly luminous tabletop.7c
\IValter says he cannot harden the teleplasmic material in the light;
it curls up. He gives red light interval to let us see [in illustration
of this remark] what happens to the teleplasm [after exposure
to light. The visibility was poor and no report was made by any
sitter.] In repetition [of red light] the mass is seen distinctly,
lying inert on the right shoulder and connected with the right ear
by cord. The face and head are clear. [The diameter of the cord
is estimated by Bird, here and elsewhere, to be a scant eighth-inch.
It was here that the uncertainty as to what had happened toward
the end of the 9 :34 dictation became cleared up; this uncertainty
had revolved about the question of where the Psychic and the tele-
plasm went as they faded out of the visual field of the sitters.]
9 :39. ~lith the Psychic's head :withdrawn somewhat further
into C than usual, \IValter gives [a lengthy period of] dim red
light through the rheostat in place of the usual red torch for
Gerke to prepare for the second flashlight. The general effect is
as before, save that now considerable teleplasm is· found on the
right side of the face. During this red-light interval [there is
a prolonged outbreak of] extraordinary whistling in the corner
near the victrola, as well as from C. Walter says the two came
simultaneously, but no sitter heard them so. [Bird would not have
believed that the whistling from the corner was other than on the
victrola record, had this not been played through many times
during the early parts of the seance without this whistling.] The
7b This parenthetic interpolation, while set uniformly with the others because its
ultimate relation with the text is the same, is not contemporaneous. It arises out
of a discussion between myself and an !!dverse critic during the period when this
book was going through the composing room; and the recollections of the sitters,
which I consulted in this connection, are of course a good deal olde1· and less reliable
than in the cases of other interpolations. My own memory of the incident happens
to be much clearer than is usually the case after such a lapse of time.-J. M. B.
rc See page 213.
A R EVERSION TO T ELEPLASMI CS 207
whistling continues, in and out of C, in red light and with the
Psychic comparatively inert. [The light was too dim and she was
too far back to support observation of her lips; but no person
present could possibly consider receding from the positive location
of whistles in the corner near the victrola.] Returning to the t ele-
plasmic mass: ·ome of this was on the Psychic's forehead, and it
spread further over her robe toward the right breast [than on
the previous view]. Whistling.
9:41. Gerke ready. Light, continuous since 9:39, now is put
out. In darkness, \iValter st ates that his main purpose in giving
this long period of red light was to enable us to observe the stretch-
ing of the cord as the Psychic moved. Mrs. Bird and others verify
[that there had been] motion of her head, but no sitter had noted
the stretching of the cord.
9 :42. Walter therefore gives a fresh interval of red light for
this observation. All sitters see motion of .the head and stretching
of the cord. There is slight moaning by the Psychic here; but
vocal effects· of the trance have been much more sparing tonight
than before.
9 :44. A brief interval of red light shows a long mass of
teleplasm lying down the Psychic's chest, extending pretty well to
her waist, and showing visible connection with her ear. Bird is
changing the cylinder [the first one being full]. 'While he was thus
engaged [other sitters reported] further development of the tele-
plasm down the front of the P sychic's robe and on to T, observed
in two intervals of red light. Another red light interval then
shows the P sychic with head far forward, the t eleplasm hanging
loosely from some point of her face to T, and·then stretching far
across T . Walter says it hangs from the ear, not from some point ·
of the face. The flashlight misfires. Walter again corrects the
dictation, insisting that the tcleplasm comes from the ear. Brief
red light was given to check this; and so far as Bird could judge,
there was no point of contact between the Psychic and the tele-
plasm save at the ear. It hung free from the ear to T, and [lay]
draped far across T toward the remote left-hand corner. Gerke
is refilling his flashpans.
9 :47. A brief period of red light [is given]. The Psychic's
head is more nearly erect; the teleplasm hangs in a long sweeping
arc from her ear to T and across T beyond point of first contact
[therewith]. To Bird, the end of the teleplasmic mass where it lies
on T is greatly enlarged. Hill [checks this and] reports two dome-
like protuberances like "solid bubbles" in the portion lying on T.
9:49. Unusually long red-light interval , preceding [ successful]
208 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
flashlight. [The teleplasmic appearance was substantially as
above.] In the period of visibility of the teleplasm [through faint
self-luminosity] following the flashlight, pronounced visible changes
were seen, best described as shrinking away and shrivelling up. Not
[apparently] a shrinking toward the Psychic; simply a shrinking
in diameter [and this change was observed in process, not merely
through its ultimate result 8
]. A pulling in toward the longitudinal
.axis, says Hill.
9 :50. The teleplasmic mass now lies down the Psychic's chest,
nearly to her waist. [Whether it was still seen by its own lumines-
cence or in an interval of red light, is not indicated.] She is in
her chair, reclining backward unusually far. The teleplasmic mass
is twelve to eighteen inches long and an inch or two broad, irregu-
lar in outline. During the shrinking or shrivelling process imme-
diately above, several sitters saw what they characterized as the
development of holes in the teleplasm.9
9 :51. Gerke leaves the room to reload fresh plate-holders. [In
two intervals, with brief onset of darkness betweenJ, a prolonged
period of red light [is given to aid his passage and] for observa-
tion of the teleplasm. It lies in a mass at least two feet long down
the front of the Psychic's robe. The sum total of Bird's observa-
tions here is: a more pronounced ramification of the lower end
of the mass than he has yet seen. A sea-weed effect, suggests
Crandon. During all this, there is considerable motion by the
Psychic, resulting in movement of the teleplasm. It was not always
clear that the latter motion was dependent upon the former [sen-
tence edited in transcription for the sake of clarity]. Perhaps as
a consequence [of the head motion and teleplasm motion] and
perhaps independently, the sitters watching the cord report a pro-
nounced swaying thereof. .
9 :55. [The above dictation was made in darkness, following
the observations which it described.] During [this] dictation,
Walter called for red light; the teleplasmic mass was seen entirely
withdrawn from the Psychic's robe, etc., and concentrated upon
her face and head, so that the face resembled a dead white mass,
without features. Returning to the ramified effect of a moment
ago, Bird emphasizes that many of the finger-like projections [at
the bottom of the teleplasmic massJ had a slight curl.
s One of Dingwall's main grievances, it will be recalled, was that he practically
never saw a change of the teleplasmic fol'm thus in pl'ocess. He would see the
mass in one state, then after an intel'val of daTkness he would see it in another.
The pl'esent experience stands out in stTong contrast with his.-J. M. B.
9 See note 18, immediately above.
PLA'l'E 12. SECOND ~'LASHLIGHT (9 :49) OF JULY 25, 1925. THE PSYCHIC DESPI'rE HER APPEARANCE OF ACTIVE ATTENTION IS IN A
TRANCE ; THE 'l'ELEPLASM IS EXTENDED ACROSS THE TABLE FROM ITS POINT OF ATTACHMENT AT THE RIGHT EAB.
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 209
9:56. Walter says: " Turn on the dim red light and let the
P sychic do anything she likes." She rises in her seat. The tele-
plasmic mass lengthens considerably, and hangs free in the air
without actually resting upon T [though the P sychic is leaning
forward so that it hangs over T]. The connection with the ear
was preserved [ and in fact p rovided the sole support and point
of suspension]. Hill disagrees with the st at ement that the mass
hung free of the t able ; Crandon agrees that it did ; Dunipace agrees
that it did not, that the end rested on T . [The light had been
put out and the P sychic had presumably reseated herself.] R epe-
tition of the episode [was afforded] by ' iValter , resulting in a
unanimous agreement [by all sitters] that the telcplasm was four
or five inches off the table, hanging freely from the P sychic's ear.
On both these occasions the P sychic freed her left hand fi.·om
Richardson's grasp, and made curious sweeping motions with it,9
a
toward and across her face, but without touching the t eleplasm.
Walter remarked: " If she touches it, I'll break her damned
neck." 10
9 :59. Dim red light for two seconds shows the teleplasmic mass
upstanding from the Psychic's face [and in contact at its upper
end with the roof of C, as though fast ened there and hanging
thence]. It is still connected with the ear. [Richardson and
Crandon report] hand control of the P sychic OK throughout the
dark interval preceding this. Tapping on T [identified as] by
Walter [when Crandon and Richardson repeat their report of
hand control. In fresh period of red light] W alter gives another
view of the upst anding t eleplasmic mass. [The effect is that of
approximation to the human form through the p resence of two
branches above and two below, as ultimately shown in photo-
graph.] Hill and Bird [ are so impressed by this effect that
they] agree to make a sketch of it after the seance [but the photo-
graph which was p resently obtained made this unnecessary ].
10 :01. The demonstration [of the upstanding teleplasm] is
repeated for Gerke's benefit on his return to the room. [Fresh
red-light interval given for this.] T apping heard on T.
10 :02. The t apping on T continues. Crandon and Richard-
son report hand control [of the Psychic] OK. R enewed rapping
'vhile Bird verifies Crandon's control of the Psychic's hand.
10 :04. Phot ograph t aken of the upst anding t eleplasm. Dur-
oa In both cases while the light was present.-J. M. B.
10 Doubtless he hacl in mind the necessities of evidence, rather than any harmful
effect upon the teleplasm . His concern over such points is a matter of frequent
observation.-J. M. B.
210 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ing the period of luminescence following the flash [all sitters not
blinded by the flash report a ] gradual swaying downward from
C roof [of freed upper end of t eleplasmic mass ] , as though the
entire mass were withdrawing toward the right side of the medium's
head. The word floating is used in description of this effect (with
all possible insistence that there was nothing which could be taken
for free falling).U
10 :05. Walter suggests a photo of the Psychic, standing.
There has been considerable whistling by him in the interval just
past, as in other interludes. T here is a strong inclination here by
Bird, Crandon and Hill to identify an odor [strange to them and
tentatively recognizable as] of t eleplasm. It is distinctly not the
odor of the flash-powder ; Crandon describes it in t erms of burnt
bread. The word " pungent " is used by Hill [and by one or two
other sitters whose observation of the odor was so delayed as to
offer no defence against the implication that in their cases it was
subj ective. Bird was divided in his mind between "pungent" and
" musty "]. Richardson reports a sensation as of teleplasmic
touch across the backs of his fingers. It is now 10:07.
10 :09. F lashlight misses fire. [Bird remarked here that Wal-
t er was much more patient and good-natured under this repeated
failure of the flashlight than he would be himself if his role were
comparable wit h W alter's.] Red light [in anticipation of the
photo] reveals the P sychic standing, with perhaps the heaviest mass
of t eleplasm yet seen dangling [in space between her and T, and
reaching decidedly below the level of the tabletop].
10:12. Gerke ready again. [In red light,] the P sychic stands
with mass of t eleplasm swaying in pendulum fashion from her ear;
no other point of contact. T he amplitude of the swing is such
that the teleplasm st ruck R ichardson's hand ; and Hill r eports,
from his seat directly facing the Psychic, that the swing covered
more th an t he entire length of T.12
Most sitters were now blinded
by the flashlight. H ill [1ras not; he] reports that the mass con-
t inued to swing [vigorously] until the Psychic was reseated in her
chair.
10 :14. Brief interval of red light given, in which it is seen
that the tcleplasmic mass has entirely withdrawn to the P sychic's
ll .See note 8, above, and note 12, helow.-.J. M. B.
12 Offering convincing evidence that the mass weighs too much to explain away
the observation that it floated down f rom its previous upstanding positi on b ecause
of its extreme tenuity: There can be no escape from the conclusion that an inert
mass heavy enough to swil1g as this swung here would fall with practically no
retardation by a.tmosphcric resistance.-J. M. B .
PLATE 13. THE 10:04 FLASHLIGH'l' FROM J ULY 25'l'H, SHOWING MASS OF 'l'ELEPLASM UPS'l'ANDING FROM THE PSYCHIC'S HEAD, AP-
PARENTLY SUPPORTED IN NORMAL FASHION AT 1'0P OF CABINET. TI-
IE FOUR'l'H VIEW TAKEN ON 'l'IIIS EVENING (10:12, P. 210) WAS
SO BADLY FOGGED BY THE PRESENCE I N 'l'HE ROOM OF SMOKE FROM THE PRECEDING EXPLOSIONS THAT IT IS NOT REl'l;l,Ol;H,JQJgJ,
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 211
shoulder and to the upper part of the right breast. The connec-
tion with the ear is still visible. Dim red light again, for two sec-
onds, shows the Psychic's head reclining to the left, the teleplasmic
mass covering the right side of the face.
10:15. Red-light interval shows the teleplasmic mass over the
left of the Psychic's face; [the right side is now in shadow, so that
no sitter can say with certainty whether the mass is shifted or
merely extended J. Bird is changing the cylinder [the second one
having been filled J. The sash and curtains of the easternmost win-
dow are opened wide by Walter's instructions [following complaint
by himself and some sitters of heavy powder clouds from the four
:flashlight explosions].
10:15. While Bird was changing the record, 'iValter whistled
brilliantly. There is considerable white light in the room [through
the open window ; see details below J. Walter now announces [that
there will be to-nightJ no more pictures, and gives two brief inter-
vals of red light for visibility of the Psychic. He calls attention to
the fact that the connecting cord actually enters the ear; and he
remarks that in consequence, she is as deaf as a haddock. The
teleplasmic mass here lies for the most part on the Psychic's left
breast, with one rope-like filament extending down at least a foot.
10:18. Red light given for two seconds. The teleplasmic mass
lies down the left side of the Psychic's robe to her groin. There
is a constricted section part way down, with considerable flare above
and below this; the shape of the whole being that of a very attenu-
ated hour-glass. There is some suggestion of a knot at the con-
striction. [All this is checked by Hill as Bird dictates it.] All
this is in partial white light with the window open. This white light
was not such as to contribute at all toward the visibility of the
Psychic to the sitters, but it gave very clear silhouetting of objects
in the room to one looking toward the windows from any point
whatever [this sentence edited in transcription, for better clarity].
Two further intervals of red light are given, showing the teleplasm
lying in a complicated curved fashion down the front of the Psy-
chic's robe, starting at [or above] the right breast, extending
.down and out to her left, then around in a sharp sweeping curve to
the right thigh. There were at least two constricted zones, and a
pronounced fan-like spreading at the extreme tip. Again two sec-
·onds of red light show the t eleplasmic mass on the Psychic's right
shoulder and, so far as can be judged, hanging down behind her.
Hand control OK throughout this. A renewed interval of red light
is given for verification of above supposition, the Psychic being now
screwed around in her chair so that the sitters at her right can
212 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
clearly see the long filament hanging down behind her. The episode
is repeated [in fresh red light], and the extreme lower end of the
mass is seen below the chair-seat. This time the red light was of
maximum rheostat intensity.
10:21. Audible motion by DM in C. Crandon reports an
effect as of a big, hairy head on hi s hand, below the level of the
Psychic's chair. [There is apparent desire on his part to connect
up with the Pithecanthropus of P awlowski's report on Kluski.13
]
Crandon reported that during this contact the P sychic's head was
located, by her groaning, [elsewhere than at the point of contact.
W alter said something which Bird interpreted in such way as to
dictate:J Walter implies that what Crandon felt was the Psychic's
head. Walter objected vigorously: he didn't imply, he wid it was
her head.14
10:25. The P sychic's foot is in Richardson's lap. Dim red
light for two seconds shows her reclining far back in her chair, with
the teleplasmic mass lying on the left of her robe, from the shoulder
down to the waist or below. During this dictation Walter again
calls for red light and we find the mass wholly on the Psychic's face,
to the left. The distribution of the mass over the face seems to
Bird to be more uniform than at any previous observation; [and
he wonders whether all these moves since the last photo are not
essential parts of the mechanics of withdrawalJ.
10 :26. Dim red light for two seconds shows the teleplasm to
be all gone. "No one in your world can find it," says Walter.
Talking with Gerke, 'iValter says this white teleplasmic substance
comes from the white part of the brain. Crandon and Richardson
state that the fore-brain contains a considerable mass of white
substance for which orthodox physiology finds no use. Walter
states that the dark uterine t eleplasm produced for Dingwall is of
a different type. H e repeats from last night that all genuine mate-
rializations are of the cortical rather than the uterine teleplasm.
That's why we shouldn't ever touch the white variety.
10:30. Customary amenities between Crandon and Walter.
The Psychic is out of t rance.
10:34. Conversation by W alter in red light. A small dark
megaphone is placed on T by Crandon, at Walter's request. The
circle, allowed to lapse during recent minutes, is reformed. Walter
suggests a telegram to McDougall: " Professor :-Ghost has brain
storm-psychologist needed." W alter remarks that Crandon
13 Joui·nal, A.S.P.R., September, 19·2<5·; ·Crandon had seen the manuscript.
14 Such disavowals by Walter of phenomen a which if fraudulent he could easily
claim are frequent.- J . M. B.
I
!
J
A REVERSION TO TELEPLASMICS 213
didn't even know his own wife from the "Pithy-Anthroscope" [see
10:21 entry]. Hand control OK. A red-light interval is given to
verify that the cloth from T has been thrown over Richardson's
head. Bird is now the victim of the same performance. Dim red
light is given for verification of this; hand control OK.
10 :40. Walter [has beenJ carrying on a very jovial conversa-
tion throughout the interval since 10:34. This [has been] punc-
tuated by brilliant whistling.
10:41. In bright red light the Psychic reports something
touching her on the right shoulder. Walter says good-night.
[Examination of C by Bird and of Psychic by Mrs. Bird, as last
night. All details the same, with addition that the Psychic's robe
was sweaty, and after examination was put in the tub for rinsing.
It was then removed by Mrs. Bird and hung up to dry by her. The
results of these examinations were entirely negative.
It is noteworthy that where the Dingwall trance sittings for the
production of the uterine teleplasm had a profound depressive reac-
tion on the Psychic, so that postponement was frequently neces-
sary, she reports both tonight and last night that she feels extremely
well after the sitting. There is more than a suggestion that the
net result is actually a stimulating one.J
There runs through this chapter a thread of reference to use of a
eovering over the potentially luminous table, which is insufficiently
clarified by the text of the records. The generalities of the situation
are discussed in the textual interpolation of pp. 202-3 ; and the cover-
ing of the table as a means of meeting this problem is first indicated in
the 9 :42 dictation of p. 200. Here the cover was a bed-sheet, placed
over the table at the start of the seance, and overloo1{ed in the dictated
account of the preliminaries. In commenting on it here we may refer
to the footnote discussion of p. 194 and to the text pages there cited.
On p. 206, at 9:35, we find that the sheet having been omitted at the
start of this seance, an emergency arose in which a black focussing cloth
was the most readily available cover for the table.. At the extreme
top of p. 213 we note Walter's use of this cloth as an instrument for
spontaneous telekinesis. Anything in the nature of further summary
of the above records, or comment thereon, is so effectively provided
by the introductory remarks of the following chapter that we may
without further formality close the present chapter here.
CHAPTER XVI
The Climax of the A.S.P.R. Sittings
Seance Records and Comment by the Editor
In reviewing Dingwall's repore of his sittings of January-February,
1925, I had written2
substantially as follows:
" vVhen we put on the seance table an object like the bell-box or the
scales, we know in advance exactly what this obj ect is. When it rings
or levitates, we are confronted only by the problem of demonstrating
its state to be what we had supposed it to be. There are no mysterious
unknown factors at all; for if we can prove that its state was as
intended and as represented, the immediate and simple problem of per-
sonal control at the moment is all that stands between us and a definite
verdict. Even if we go beyond the mere validation of a valid episode
and seek to discuss the psychic machinery, the pri-ma facie terms of the
p roblem are simple. vVe know exactly what has happened, in terms of
sense impression, in terms of physical behavior, in t erms of foot-pounds
or degrees or inches. All we need look for is the dynamic agency
leading to such result.
" In the presence of a manifestation which consists of the produc-
t ion of teleplasm fro m the entranced medium, everything is enormously
complicated. Before we can reduce our problem to one of behavior
or of units, we face the riddle: '\iVhat is it? ' There is a dominant
factor of mystery which we can never overcome. Even could WP over-
come it, we should find that every difficulty marking the ordinary
dynamic manifestations is present in exaggerated form in dealing with
this static problem. The complications and the inherent uncertainty
added by the mere fact that we do not know what this object is with
which we deal, must be evident. But we can be more specific in our
reservations.
" No prior examination can be attempted of this substance, for if it
is genuine it is not 'there' initially. Any allegation which can be
advanced in behalf of the possibility of concealed apparatus in a tele-
kinet ic seance is equally applicable to account for the presence of the
teleplasm; but in the telekinetic seance the apparatus has still to be
1 P1
·oceedings, S.P .R. (British), Part 9-8, Vol. XXXVI ; June, 1926.
2 J oumal, A..S.P.R., August, l 926.
214
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 215
used for th·~ production of a pretty definite action by a definite object,
whereas in the t eleplasmic seance its mere appearance on the premises
is the phenomenon which we must evaluate. Theories of fraud which
may be advanced as to what it is or how it got in the room are not, as
might be hoped, simpler or easier to meet than parallel theories to cover
the ringing of the bell or the oscillation of the scales. If genuine, the
tcleplasm has the most fundamental anatomical nexus with Margery
and we must expect that its examination or handling will be severely
restricted- far more severely, and with far less r esultant suspicion,
than examination or handling of the ringing bell or the swinging scales."
In a word, when we turn away from telekinetics and toward t eleplasmics,
we attack the n1anifest ations that present the maximum of inherent
difficulty.
Dingwall so turned by choice, as I pointed out in the critique from
which the above is abstr act ed. l\fy own choice of a 'field for investiga-
tion '\ as m ad~ in accord with the spirit of these remarks. My entire
plan revolved about the assumption that my sittings would be mainly
t elekinetic in character. As my June records indicate, this plan was
initiated, and good p rogress was made with it in these three seances.
But with the sitting of July 16th, \i'\Talter's interest and attention began
to veer in the direction of t eleplasmics; and the further we went, the
more pronounced this became.
One large contributing cause here was the fact that at this time
Richardson was engaged in a serious and continuous study of the
mediumship r evolving about the vocal phenomena. This study was of
an importance full y equal to that of my own program. It was initially
directed toward the problem of developing a mechanical means of
mouth-control which should be of sufficient and sufficiently obvious rigor
to constitute a demonstration of the independence of the voice; and in
this direction a very conspicuous success3
was ultimat ely scored. It
was not, I believe, part of the original intent to seek out deliberately
anything more than this. But for many months vValter had been in
the habit of mentioning more or less seriously and more or less informa-
tively the teleplasmic appar atus through which, he stated, his vocal
effects were produced. A natural consequence of the holding, by Rich-
ardson, of a prolonged series of sittings devoted exclusively to the vocal
phenomena was an increased amount of discussion with \Valter about
the nature of this mechanism. It was, I believe, mainly at \Valter's
s See Chapter XX.
216 THE MARGERY MEDIUl\1 HIP
motion that there was grafted upon the original program of mere
demonstration a further project for rath r xt 11 ive visibl material-
ization, photographing and study of what he would present as his vocal
apparatus; but vValter's motion in this dir eLi n wa nthu iastically
seconded by Richardson and Crandon.
In June, when my seances were permitt d (by IValter and Crandon)
to take a telekinetic turn, Richardson's progmm wa hardly under way,
and had not defined itself at all. In July it wa w ll under way and
was beginning to define itself in the sense o( the 1 ,·cc ding aragraph.
In August it had got in full swing and was c m1 'Jet ly defin d in that
sense. So that during this time there was v ry provocation for
Walter's interest in the teleplasmic side of th medium hip, at the
expense of the purely telekinetic.
One would have questioned, ab initio, the abi lity of Walt r and the
sitters of the intimate group to carry along b irnult aneou investiga-
tions, two interlocking series of seances, with wholly eli rgent aims;
and to keep these distinct. This failure rca h 1 a logical climax when
I appeared in Boston for my August seance . \.t tlu tim I was con-
fronted by a proposal which I could not trac ' it h certainty t o a defi-
nite origin, but which I infer to have arisen more or less simultaneously
and spontaneously in the minds of Richard, on, Crandon and Walter:
namely, that the Society sittings and the Ri ]vtrdson sittino-s be con-
solidated, to the great economy of time an I energy. Neither in the
degree to which this would substitute Ri hard on's control of the
seance procedure for mine, nor in the compl t cone ntration upon
teleplasmics which it involved, was this proposal in line with my own
plans or my own ideas. But it was so definitel y presented to me, both
in and out of the seance room, as constituting IVc lt r' pl n and Cran-
don's wish, that I was left without effectiv 11 ans of prote t . It was
obvious that I must go on in this way or not aL all ; and for the time
at least, the choice between these alternativ c s clear. It was plain
to me that in so far as there was to be any tage manag ment by the
sitters, other than Crandon, this would be exer cised by ichardson to
my own exclusion. To this subordination of my own rol , as well as
to the radical divergence from my own ph 1 m nistic program, it
seemed altogether the wisest course to submit.
Seance of August 12th, 1925: 10 Lim Street. D ictaphonic
record by Bird with aid of the other itt r transcribed verbatim,
with parenthetic elaboration by Bird.
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 217
Circle formed at 9:11 [Crandon reserving for himself the place
at the Psychic's right, and requesting Richardson to place the other
sitters.4
Seance held in continuous darkness save for intervals of
red light and flashlight indicated in the record.] Order, clockwise:
Psychic, Richardson, Hill, Mrs. Richardson, Bird, Crandon, Psy-
chic again. Three cameras set up [in place of the two previously
used. One was of the ordinary model, using glass plates, the other]
two were stereoscopic [using films]. Conant and Gerke in charge
[of photographic work]. Luminous controls on the Psychic's
ankles, but in view of the photographic program, not on her head
Qr wrists.4
a [The cameras took up so much room that it was pos-
sible to accommodate no more sitters in the circle than those listed;
so] Mrs. Bird was on the sofa in the northeast corner.
[Bird operated the dictaphone, from his seat in the circle. The
stand had to be placed further in toward the circle than previously,
because of the cameras; and Bird was therefore uncomfortably
remote from Mrs. Richardson. Part of the time he handled the
mouthpiece with his right hand, Mrs. Richardson maintaining con-
trol by grasping his wrist. Part of the time, however, it was neces-
sary for Bird and Mrs. Richardson to rest these two hands, in
simple contact across the arms of the chairs; and Bird then oper-
ated the dictaphone with his left hand, free, depositing Crandon's
right upon his knee for control. The temperature necessitated an
electric fan; it stood on the floor, approximately behind Hill.]
[Preliminary search of the Psychic was unsatisfactory, for
reasons which are more conveniently set forth in the record of the
following evening (p. 223). She wore robe and slippers.]
9:15. In response to Mrs. Richardson's request that the fan
4 I ought to point out that I was doing the recording of my own choice, and
under my own procedure; and that this procedure involves my preoccupation with
the dictaphone to such degree that I could not in any event occupy the place next
the Psychic, with its demands for continuous close attention to the control of
her members. .AJJ.y criticism of the seating arrangements, therefore, must be on
the general ground that Crandon was by his own insistence at one side of the Psychic;
rather than on the specific ground that I was not assigned this seat. Had it ·been
offered me, I should have declined it.-J. M. B.
4a Whether these controls are removed entirely, as on July 23rd, 24th and 25th;
m whether those on the ankles are retained, in accorclance with the remarks of page
189 and as we tried to do it on July 23rd, seems to be a point permitting of no
generalization. Unless the phenomena and the conditions under which they occur
were to present much wider variation than is the case during the period to which
we are now giving our attention, it wo'uld certainly be the case that elimination of
the ankle controls on one occasion to permit fraud would necessitate that this be
always clone. And the essential parallelism between the phenomena of Chapter XV
and the period of the mec1iumship ushered in thereby, and those of the present
period, entitles us to assume that inasmuch as the feet could not there play any large
part, they need not play one here.-J. M. B.
218 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHU>
be moved, Walter spoke [for the first timeJ and in. truct d t hat this
be done, in red light. In the darkness fol lowi ng this he whistled
greetings as usual.
9:16. Crandon announces trance. [On n 1· cent evening, there
had been obtained, on two plates exposed i11 th scanc room, an
apparently teleplasmic cloud obscming mosl of these plat es.] 5
Walter refused to answer most of the que ·tions [put to him about
this] ; but he told Conant that it was engin<:: red from his ide. In
response to inquiry, he stated that he could do L
he same thing with
a plate exposed in a camera in the dark scanc -1
· om. Hi philoso-
phy-here he interrupted the dict ation to . ny iLwasn't philosophy,
it was fact-appears to be that there was tcJ plasm, or " himself,"
in front of the camera, and that in the fh. h this b came luminous
or reflected light. [He represent ed it as n J sychic ac ident , with-
out intent.] With r egard to some black mark on the same plates~
Walter says this was himself, moving; h · n.ys these marks are
joined by what he describes as a swish like a comet.
9 :24. First vocal soui1ds of trance, which up to her has been
entirely a quiet one. Crandon suggests thFLt he noi , a curious
blowing effect, come from the t eleplasrnic ba ll. Walter says no.
[The reference here is to the" br eathing h 'ad ' oft leplasm.J<;
9 :25. Blowing sounds continue. J\I os~ , i tt~ rs conn ct them
with difficulty in breathing through the t clcpla. mic veil.
9:30. Blowing sounds still heard in termittently. [There .has
been] continuous conversation with ' Valt er, on various t opics, to
this point; [and beyond, r emarked ' Valt cJ'. This t urned out to·
be quite valid].
9 :41. Walter stresses that for the pu rpose in hand, demon-
stration of his speaking appar atus, he is ob iiged to combine the two
types of teleplasm [as charact erized in t h ·it ·ings of the p receding
series. Bird had already been confident in h i· own mind t hat there
was a liberal mixture of the philosophy r !:he D ingwall sittings
and of his own; and that there was invoh' d either contradiction
or some such combination as ' iValtcr ha now indi at ed ]. No
photos will be taken tonight, said 'V:1Itc~ 1· ; Ihe would merely pre-
pare for the following evenings, whi ch h indicated would be
brilliant affairs].
9:44. The P sychic's head is on T. Ver)' loud blowing. Cran-
don reports her hand on the Hoor, und er his control. he is erect
o 'l'he present text describes these adequately; :1n 1 Ihe date on which ancl the
conditions uncler which they were taken were not rccorcl Nl. Hence they are not
reproduced.- J. M. B.
a See Chapt ers II, III.
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 219
again, after t en or twenty seconds. Immediat ely after this her left
foot is on Richardsop's knee for some twenty seconds. The P sychic
is very restless ; Crandon compares her grunts with those of a
woman in labor [and Richardson assents] .
9 :46. [There is] considerable discussion of a questionable
observation [by Hill and Gerke, the latter standing behind the Hill-
Richardson space with his head forward and probably as close to
C as that of any other sitter except Crandon and Richardson] of
a "Maxwell-Parrish" blue light in C. Hill is positive that he saw
it; Gerke less so; [no other sitter saw anything ]. W alter said it
was there, then called for dim red light. A white mass about the
size of a fist was seen on the P sychic's shoulder; it was less irregular
in shape and more rounded than [when] previously [seen by some
of the sitters in Richardson's sittings]. Richardson said it looked
like a rounded mass of coral; Crandon echoed this. Hill thought
it looked like a new baseball; Bird found the surface appearance
[irregular and fluffy ], like cotton batting. Crandon thought the
surface flaky, like veget able ivory ; and two other sitters used the
word "flaky." ' Valter said that tomorrow night we would not
know the teleplasm, and indicated that this is an important fact.
9 :50 [at end of the above]. 'Valter st ates that the P sychic
will not be feeling well tomorrow night but that we are to sit just
the same. [Mrs. l~ird, present through part of the examination of
the P sychic prior to the present seance, reports that she spoke as
though menstruation were imminent, and wore a Kotex napkin into
the seance. She wore one again on the following night but spoke
and acted as though entirely well.7
]
9 :51. A very faint tapping on the east wing of C was heard
by Bird only after Crandon had called his attention to it.
9:55. Walter said that next nigiht we might all touch the tele-
plasm. [This was realized.]
9:56. Richardson reports a touch inside his left thigh; at this
moment the foot controls are visible to him; next instant he was
touched again, on the chest. Again Richardson is touched, on the
right arm; Hill verifies the visibility of the foot controls on the
floor where they belong. Hand control by Richardson and Crandon
is reported as uninterrupted through all this. Several times imme-
diately following there is a stroking and plucking at Bird's left foot
and leg, and a plucking at his trousers; [the latter is] repeat ed as
he dict ates. During this time Bird had extra control of two hands
at the P sychic's right, [in addition to normal control of Crandon's
7 But see page 232.
220 THE MARGERY MEDIUM H IP
right hand; but he was without time to v rify th ir identity as
closely as he usually does., There was no specific r a n for doubt-
ing this, however;] and Richardson report ontrol of her left hand
[throughout the touches]. Both foot ·ontrols w re visible
throughout [these touches] t o several sitter ·, including H ill. Dur-
ing this dictation M (dark) fell on T. [Initially th r e was no
apparatus on T or in C, save this M, on th floor at h P sychic's
right as always.] Immediately thereafter Bird was t ouched on
the left arm, and Crandon felt the object- M or X - t hat did this.
M placed by W alter at Richardson's mouth, [so that R ichardson
spoke through it] ; all controls as a moment befor .
9 :59. A touch on Bird's right knee; all ·ontrols as before.
10 :00. Several touches [apparently] by X felt on Bird's hand,
[where it is grouped with three other l on t he Psy hi 's [right-
hand] corner ofT. Both anklets wer vi. ible [ at thi t ime] and
Richardson reports control of the P sychi ' left hand. Bird's ·
arm, bared at W alter request , is touched by what Bird took to be
[the cold} metal mouthpiece of M. Her and a mom nt before,
Crandon's head was controlled on Bird's a rm. Th cold t ouch was
repeated.
10:01. M raps sharply on T a few t im ; all controls as during
the past few moments. The additional con t rols ar th n dropped.
Walter says these little manifestations d 11
ot ount, he is just
stalling us. [This is of considerable importanc a indicating
Walter's appreciation of the triviality of tl ph nomena in ques-
tion.] Crandon, while Bird was being tou h d, felt omething like
a husky forearm going past the backs of t hr of hi fingers, on his
left hand; with sine,v-like processes at work ther ein.
10 :04. Richardson reports the P sychi s head down [on T].
10 :05. Walter correctly reports th P ychic's head up.
10:05. [Richardson had for some tim ·past b n talking about
the possibility of Walter's deflecting, oth 1' tl1 an t lekin tically, the
needle of a luminous compass; or produ ing om other non-tele-
kinetic, magnetic phenomenon.] ' iVith Walt r' p rmi ion, Rich-
ardson now placed [such a ] compass on T fFl nd th eance centered
about it for some time] . T he compass-n dle o illat d [almost
or quite at once] ; the sitters could not d ide wh ther [to infer
that] W alter had done this, or t hat th n cdle had not come to
rest [after motion of the unit in R ichard ·on s hand]. W ith addi-
tional control by Bird of the P sychic-Crandon jun tion, the com-
pass was eclipsed ; immediately thereaft r the ne dl oscillated
through a ninety-degree angle. No sound were heard here; but
the sitters lacked any feeling of assuran L
hat th compass had
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 221
not been moved en masse. Equally, the needle might have been
jarred into motion by displacement of the compass whil~ eclipsed.
Finally, even if we assume the phenomenon to be genuine and con-
fined to the needle, this might conceivably have been moved tele-
kinetically, Walter working inside the case in this way, rather than
magnetically as desired. Just how to exclude these alternatives
would be quite a problem. [This comment on the compass action
is included in the record, because it was brought out by conversa-
tion in the seance room among the sitters and between them and
"'Walter. It has been considerably edited in transcription, for
the sake of clarity and completeness.] Momentary eclipse
.observed, twice.
10:07. Compass eclipsed; oscillates; eclipsed; oscillates;
.eclipsed to Hill but not to other sitters; partially eclipsed several
times. At this stage there was twice heard a rattle [of the com-
pass case against '1']. Crandon's left thigh touched. Compass
eclipsed.
10:08. The foot controls were visible throughout this; and
there was additional control by Bird of the Psychic-Crandon junc-
tion. The compass was eclipsed, one half at a time [and then the
other half]. Hill continually reports eclipses at times when the
.other sitters see both ends of the needle, [which alone is luminous].
Walter says that he is working from Hill's 'side of T. There is
considerable oscillation of the compass needle, off and on, through-
out this. Bird twice [but only twice] heard faint metallic sounds
[suggesting movement of entire unit rather .than of needle alone.
There next ensues a] rapid complex of partial and total eclipses.
The compas's [then goes] in motion, en masse and sharply, across
T; and this motion is repeated in the opposite direction. Eclipses
[follow], plus metallic clicking.
10:12. Oscillation and eclipse of the needle, followed by click-
ing, then by sharp movement of th~ unit across T. Momentary
·eclipse. The compass is then moved across T to the extreme corner
near Bird [the far right corner as seen from the Psychic's seat].
There then occurs sharp oscillation [of the needle alone] without
noise, and under Walter's conscious control [e.g., he would address
remarks to " Little Needle," giving it instructions which it would
proceed to execute.] Repetition of all this is given at the Richard-
son-Hill corner of T [the Psychic's far left]. All controls are
reported OK since 10 :05, including Bird's additional hand control.
10:16. Complicated compass manipulations occurring ·while
Bird is engaged in changing the cylinder [are accordingly not
recorded in detail]. The ambiguity of the compass experiment
222 THE MARGERY MEDIUJ\I SI IIP
leads to discussion of the psychic closi ng 0 r an lectric circuit
[ unde_r conditions more lending themscl vcs to cxclu ion of telekinetic
or normal m~chani cal action]. ' Valtcr says he can los a gap of
five inches, and can make the t eleplasn1 co nductiv or noncon-
ductive, at will. It becomes conductive or Lh r everse en masse,
he says, and not in det ail. H e thinks he auld do thi in red
light, [which would be essential to rule out c11tll s li cu ion about
search of the Psychic a nd usc of her ha nds whil thought to be
under control. (In answer to a query) J ' Valter ay t hat the
choice of elect rical properties in the tclepla m i not a matter of
will alone; it consist s in a physical abstnt ·Lion [ or addit ion] of
something. H e says he puts "air " between our terminal and his
to produce nonconductivity. 'l'o Bird's obj t .ion that this [begs
the question, since itJ constitut es an in 'O lll l l t lo ing of the
gap, he replies that for him the closure is complet , though for us
it is not. H e says he takes the pores of t h tel pla m and fills
them with " air." T he discussion closed wit h \Valt r' stat ement,
[ usual under similar circumst ances, J that 1
· he id a which he is try-
ing to express are foreign to our cone pt · I_ and that he must
accordingly do his best t o put t hem across t hrough crude analogy] .
10:24. The compass is still on T , and occasionally moves or
is eclipsed.
10 :25. T elephone; Bird t akes the P ·y h ic' right hand as
Crandon leaves.
10:29. Crandon retums and the normal ·ir cle is r "stablished.
10:30. Trance t erminat es.
10 :33. After a little fi nal discuss ion " alter sa g od night
and the seance ends. T he Psychic a few mi nut e lat er r eports
stomach cramps.
Seance of August 13th, 1925; 10 Lime ·r Dictaphonic
·record by Bird with aid of ot her sitter. ; tra n ribed v rbatim,
with parenthetic elaboration by Bird.
Circle formed at 9 :00 P.M., [ under sam pr c dure by Crandon
and R ichardson as preceding night. Sea nce held in darkness
throughout, save for intervals of reel Iig ht and flashlight, a,
recorded. ] Order, clockwise : P sychic, Ri cha 1
·d on, Hill, Mrs.
Richardson, Bird, Crandon, P sychic again. fD ictaphonic arrange-
ments as the night before.] Mrs. Bird on a chair immediately
behind the dict aphone, in Bird-Mrs. Richa rd on pa , [whence
it was hoped that she would have better view o[ tabl cabinet region
than the preceding night. H er omission from th cir 1 , it should
be specified, is rather in accord with her ow n wi. h s.] Luminous
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SIT'riNGS 223
controls on ankles, but those on head and wrists omitted in view
of the photographic program. [Cameras as night before, Conant
and Gerke in attendance.]
[The Psychic wore robe and slippers. On the 12th, Mrs. Bird
reported that so far as her own part therein was concerned, the
search of the Psychic was not satisfactory. Mrs. Richardson and
Mrs. Bird officiated together; but in the middle of the process Mrs.
Richardson and the Psychic entered the bath room together and
closed the door, leaving Mrs. Bird without. On the present evening,
Mrs. Bird conducted the preliminary examination alone, Mrs. Rich-
ardson not being in the room at all. If one were then to seck to
go behind the search, this could be done only by attacking its com-
pleteness or competence, and not the circumstances surrounding
it. This is the more interesting, inasmuch as the seance of the
12th was largely a failure and that of tonight a brilliant success;
while the only noticeable difference in conditions was that in the
search, which should have influenced things in the other direction
if at all.]
9 :01. The Psychic complains of acute and universal itching.
[No report was made regarding the degree of freedom of scratching
allowed her by Crandon and Richardson.]
9 :03. The Walter voice is heard. Walter stated that tonight
the teleplasmic material of " his " larynx will be much hardened
as compared with previous experience. What previously looked
like a rubber ball will now be seen hanging out of the teleplasmic
" mouth," to a length of about a foot. He is going to show us
what he talks with.
[Once or twice during the evening Walter said "larnyx." Bird
had never before noticed any tendency on the part of Walter or
Margery to mispronounce this word. But next day, she duplicated
this mispronunciation.]
9:07. Crandon and Richardson simultaneously announce trance.
9:10. Unusually sustained and tuneful whistling by Walter.
He asks that tonight we observe particularly the location, etc.,
of the cord joining the teleplasmic mass with the Psychic. He
states that the teleplasmic larynx is made once for all. It rernains
with the Psychic, not with Walter or in the room. A moment later
he seems to indicate that it stays with him. He explains the appar-
ent contradiction by sayi;ng that the apparatus stays with her,
the force going with him-it's like the deflation of a balloon. [A
rather clever simile, Bird thinks.]
9:14. Dim red light for two seconds shows the mass of tele-
plasm overlying the entire face. It is rather heavy in texture, of
224 THE MARGERY MEDIUl\lSHIP
a general veil-like effect. The cord is visible, at the right, running
apparently not to the ear but downward at lea t as far a the right
breast. At the junction with this cord, th mass is aggregated
into a small globular formation. [The cord wa much t hi 1 r than
ever seen before ; perhaps half an inch, certain ly thre - ights or
more.] The trance becomes a complaining on ; " Don't feel good,
at all; head aches," [in petulant tones].
9 :19. Bright red light for two seconds. T he t el -pia mic mass
is seen heavily consolidat ed on the P sychic' r ight boulder ; the
cord lies down the right side t o - . At thi. 1 oint Walter inter-
rupts to say that the ext ension seen lying clown t he righL side of the
P sychic's frontal aspect is not the cord, but th laryng al ext ension
of which he spoke earlier. The cord, he .·ay , ·t end from the ear
to the big mass; he gives an interval of re l Jio·ht and we verify
this. The cord is seen distinctly running h m tl e ear, J cidedly
smaller in diamet er than usual ; and the ext n ion lying down t he
Psychic's breast is seen to have a definit L
ermination. randon
and Richardson state that the general effe ·t [ the mass up on the
shoulder, with the extention below it, is th at r a trachea running
up into a larynx. [In Walter 's eonversa ti n ther ha b en some
indication that he regards the extension a the lary , and the
generating mass as something else---a h ad, p rhap . F llowing
Crandon's and Richardson's simile, the bnlnn of t h r ord refers
to the laryngeal mass and the tracheal xt n ion, or o the tele-
plasmic larynx and trachea. As the sitt iJ1o· develop , with its
strong indication that Walter had in mind a p ictur e of t h t racheal ·
extension as protruding from an oral cavity a nd as p rhap s being
itself a larynx, Crandon and R ichardson w re impre eel with his
departure from the anatomical model- ev n, p erhap , with his
caricature thereof. Walter's t erminology wa in:flu n d by ours,
and toward the end of the seance he had fall u in wit h ours
complete!y.]
9 :22. Walter st ates that the trachea lo k as though it entered
a mouth in the laryngeal mass. At the pre ding mom nt of obser-
vation, Bird had felt some resemblanc to x ist betw n the side
of this mass facing him, and the human countenance; but not
enough, or not clear enough, for him so to r port. Other sitters
now are inclined to agree on both counts.
9 :23. In bright red light for one s cond t he facial aspect of
the laryngeal mass seems increased. Crandon points out that [as
usual] he gave a very long count [for the p riod named by Walter
for the light].
9 :25. The Psychic's left foot is on Ui lmrdson's thigh. Dis-
THE CLIMAX Ol'' THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 225
cussing the possibility of an early flashlight, Walter says he has a
lot to do before he can stand this.
9 :26. The left foot is replaced on the floor. · M [from its usual
place in C initially] is heard scraping about immediately there-
after. Following this the Psychic's head is reported on T . After
some t en seconds, it is up again.
9 :31. vValter calls for one second of red light and gets about
five. Bird and Crandon agree that the appearance is much as
before, with the possible exception of a longer trachea. Hill calls
attention to the fact that tonight's teleplasm is darker in shade
than we have been in the habit of having it, of late. Muddy gray
would perhaps describe it well, [as against the rather brilliant
white of the cortical t elep1asm of the recent sittings. After the
seance, all sitters were agreed that the t eleplasm was more or less
white at the start, getting grayer as we went along. In this con-
nection one might recall VValter's remarks about the mixture of
the two teleplasms. J At this point Walter requested that Richard-
son follow the Psychic's right hand and permit her to do, under
control, anything she desired. [Apparently there was no sequel
to this request ; at any event, Richardson made no report. J
9:32. Under fresh exposure to red light, the tracheal append-
age is seen with two sharp bends. It lies vertically downward from
the main mass for a space; then turns sharply outward and to the
Psychic's right in a horizontal segment; then turns again and
terminates in another vertical segment. [This sentence edited in
transcription, for greater clarity.] The laryngeal mass is about
the same [under this exposure to lightJ as before. At the con-
clusion of this dictation Walter calls for red light again and the
tracheal appendage is seen extending upward to the Psychic's nose,
entering the right nostril. It is smoother, and lighter in color,
than before.· The P sychic is quite restless during this phase, with
noisy breathing. [Throughout the ensuing 58 minutes during
which the tracheal appendage r emained thus in the nose, there were
intermittent indications of an obstructed breathing.] W alter pro-
t ests that nobody seems to have observed how the t rachea emerges
from a mouth-like orifice in the larynx. Crandon a nd Gerke there-
upon state [from their memory of preceding observation periods]
that this is a fact. Under repetition of red light for the express
purpose all sitters verify the [presence of the] mouth-like orifice,
with a singl<' exception.
9 :33. Gerke having failed to see the "mouth," we have red
light again for his benefit. [This insistence by Walter that every-
body see, and record his seeing, before we proceed, is characteristic
226 THE MARGERY ME DIU:MSHIP
of his recent attitude.] Other sitters agree that th orifi 1s more
prominent than before [when the light is thu. giv n for Gerke's
benefit;] and Gerke, [in spite of his unfavorable p iti n outside
the circle at the east, largely in his own light , I es this too.
9:34. Fresh exposure to red light to v ri f'y that this is the
set-up that we want for the first photog raph. \.fter a discussion
of whether all the cameras are focussed upon t he proper region,
red light is repeated within 30 seconds. \Vhi"
le pr parations are
under way for shooting with all the camera. Crandon' hand is
brought up [to the P sychic's face by her J ' nd he is p rmitted
to feel of the [teleplasmic] larynx. [ H e repo rts it] v ry cool, at
most 40° Fahrenheit. Richardson repeats thi ob ervation.
9:35. A camera having been knocked down, W alter gave two
seconds of r ed light to aid in· its restor ation. T he telepla mic con-
figuration is about as before. Walter s em.· able t o h ld the tele-
plasmic pose indefinitely, with no perturbation ov r t h long delay.
9:39. [All cameras being ready,] the red ·1ight i again given
for inspection of the t e1ep1asm. Gerke stat that th tub running
to the nose distends and flattens as though r piration ; re being
effected through it. W alter agrees with thi . .
9 :40. R ed light given for two seconds for rifi ation of
[the teleplasmicJ pose. Within five or t n onl th flashlight
is detonated, in red light; [but prior experi n of all sitt rs leads
them to protect their eyes rather than . k a gJimps of t he tele-
plasmic mass]. In the luminous period follow ing the fl.a h, [how-
ever,] the t eleplasm is plainly visible. [In L
his p riod of self-
luminescence the teleplasm is not to be cornpar l in brightness with
obj ects that carry luminous paint; but it i l arly to b seen, in
definite and det ailed outline.] M is now obs rved [in silhouette
against the luminous tabletop ] to be st ancliJlg on T, t m ard the
west end. Crandon is permitted to fed the m rLs on th houlder
and the cord running t o the ear. Clammy, ·ool, soft, ticky, [is
his report; making the same experiment,] Richard on says the mass
is slightly warmer t han before. [I n gen ntl, it warmed 1 rogres-
sively with the progress of the seance.]
9 :44. Richardson is permitted to f cl, i11 i·h vicinity of the
Psychic's nose, a rounded cord about the ize of a p n il. randon
reports that when his hand was lifted to th fac , a loop of this
cord fell across his four fingers.
9 :45. Physic's head on T . Crandon reJ or! cold breezes blow-
ing from [the direction of the] P sychic. H il l fe ls thes on his
face and chest, Mrs. Richardson on her kn T he P ychic is
erect again.
PLATE 14. Two VIEWS, FROM DIFFERENT QUARTERS, RESULTING FROM THE 9 :40 l'LASHLIGHT ON AUGUST 13, 19·25. O BSERVE THE
HEAVY ''TRACHEAL'' APPENDAGE, SO·CALLED BY \ ¥ALTER, THRUST UPWARD INTO THE NOSE i AND .
THE VERY FINE CORD RUNNING
TO THE LEFT EAR. THIS TELEPLASMIC OBJECT I S STATED BY WALTER TO REPRESENT H IS SPEAKING MECHANISM.
/
.)
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 227
9 :48. Red light given for two seconds. The laryngeal mass
is seen on the Psychic's face, on and above the nose and heavily
concentrated on the forehead. In repetition of this red-light
exposure, the teleplasmic " mouth " is seen very distinctly by all
in the circle except Mrs. Richardson. The massed effect of the
laryngeal structure upon the upper part of the Psychic's face is
very pronounced. There seemed to Bird no normal reason why
this mass should stay in place instead of falling.
[9 :50 or a little later.] F lashlight t aken while Bird was chang-
ing the dictaphone cylinder. After the flash the teleplasm is
luminous, as usual. V\T
alter calls for a black cloth to go over
[the too-luminous] T; and this was supplied with considerable
delay, confusion and breaking of circle.
9 :55. Circle restored, complete and in good order. Crandon
and Richardson are immediately touched by [something taken for ]
the teleplasmic mass. Richardson says this came first on his right
hand, then on his forehead. Crandon felt something big, more or
less like a head of cabbage; it struck the left side of his forehead.
9:57. The Psychic's head [is reported ] on T immediately after
the above.
9 :59. Walter asks us all to draw as close as we can to get a
view of the fine cord. Hill then reports vigorous breezes, focalized,
as though caused by air issuing from a tube. Red light is given
for two seconds; the Psychic's head is seen on T , r esting on the
left side. The laryngeal mass [lies out] on T, perhaps three inches
in front of her face. The tracheal cord extends from her nose
to this mass. Bird is particularly struck by the aggregation of
this material at its point of entrance-[ an aggregation which on
transcription he distinctly recalls as having been inside the nostril
and slightly overflowing therefrom]. Two seconds of red light to
verify the photographic set-up. One camera is [reported by Gerke
to be] out of focus under present status, [with the Psychic's head
and the teleplasmic appurtenances so far forward from their usual
position]. In fifteen seconds 'Valter gives us a fresh view [in red
light] ; and the P sychic's head carrying the t eleplasmic ensemble
with it is seen to have shifted considerably on T . The relation of
the t eleplasmic mass to the head is about as before; if there is
any change, it is a little closer. Vigorous blowing by the Psychic
in trance.
10 :02. R ed light for two seconds. The Psychic's head is on the
extreme corner of T [at her near left], the laryngeal mass practi-
cally in contact with her mouth. The tracheal cord winds in pas-
sage from the teleplasmic mass to her nose, [rather than being
228 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
shortened to compensate for the reduced distanc ] . R p tition of
red light for further verification of the pose show · t h t 1 plasmic
mass moved across T to a considerable dist an e from th sychic's
face; Crandon and Mrs. Bird saw the car cord [this tim ,] as well
as the tracheal cord to the nose.
In the luminous period following the flashlight [' hich was
sprung here, at some time between 10 :02 and 10 :06,] th laryngeal
mass and both tubes were very plainly di c rnible. Hill, given
permission to feel the mass, puts his hand on t h ' lar ynx nd then
gently pinches the trachea-[both items at W alter' plicit
instruction]. Immediately after this, red ligh t i g iven for veral
seconds; and most sitters felt they had had a n1
ore brilliant view
than at any previous exposure. Bird was pa rt i ularly truck by
the attenuated character of the car connection. B 'for H ill could
report on the sensations of his contact wit h th mass, Bird was
invited to feel in red light, which was given for this purpos and
which lasted at least five seconds. Bird was par t icularl. struck
by the soft, yielding character of the lar yngeal mess. Hill states
and Bird endorses that the t emperature was som what higher than
on previous contacts [of this evening] ; also t hat there wa a f ling
of very slight moisture. Hill got same general sensation from
the nasal cord as from the main mass, save that it wa e en a
trifle more yielding. Richardson was invited to follow the tele-
plasmic cord into the " mouth," in the red light. Nothing par-
ticular to report except that he did this.
11 :06. T elephone. Bird takes the Psychi ' right hand in
Crandon's absence. [Inst ant advantage was tak n by W Iter of
this opportunity to engineer a cont act between Hi1
·cl and · h t cle-
plasmic mass.] Bird's hand was carried over by th P sychi 's, and
pressed upon and into the teleplasmic mass on T , far more force-
fully than Bird would have dared do it himself. B ird's hand made
a depression in the teleplasmic mass, he judges,. of ~ to 1;2 inch.
[In entering this depression, staying t herein, a nd withdra' ing,
Bird observed no feeling of resistance to COII II r ssion und r his
hand, as is the case when a flexible-e.g., rubb r- ball fill d with
air· or water is indented. The ~har ad.c r of t he ·o nt act l' mained
unchanged, no matter how deep the depression; and Bird was quite
confident that he sensed a flowing effect of the mnss, through hich
it may be inferred that the depression made by I i' hand was com-
pensated by erection elsewhere, as is the case in l1 a odling kidney,
liver, or other organic aggregations of similar type ; Tath r than
by an internal compression as in the case of t he jnfl atecl ball. As
his hand withdrew, this flow of course followed, a nd so ra idly that
:::"<
PLA'l'E ]5. THE SGCOND FLASHLIGH'l' (9:50) OF AUGUS'r 13'l'Hj BADLY OUT OF FOCUS IN ALL THE CAMERAS, AND REPRODUCED MERELY
TO COMPLETE 'rHE RECORD.
PLATE 16. THE THIRD EXPOSURE OF AUGUST 1 3'rH (10:02), SHOWING 'l'HE "•rALKING
HEAD" ON THE 'l'ABLE, wrrH '!'I-
IE 'l'WO CONNECTIONS 'l'O 'l'HE PSYCHIC'S NOSE
AND EAR.
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 229
in Bird's judgment the actual contact with his hand did not end
until the original, symmetric configuration of the mass had been
regained. This one would expect to be the case with the compressed
ball; with the distorted organ-like t eleplasm it would not necessarily
follow that the return to form would be so immediate. All this
represents subsequent analysis of the sensations which led Bird
to put into the dictaphone t he statement that] here, more than in
any previous instance, he felt that he was in contact with a living
organism. [The pressure on the dictaphone during this phase was
so severe that Crandon's return was not recorded. R ecollection
would place it as occurring during or after Rird's second teleplasmic
contact of the next paragraph.]
Hill and Richardson state that in [above interval of] red light,
through shadow or other causes the junction between the nasal
cord and the main mass was darker than the surrounding regions.
Bird's hand is again canied into violent contact with the tele-
plasmic mass, [in darkness, as immediately above]. His fingers
were used in giving almost the effect of kneading this mass, being
driven into it [by manipulation from the P sychic's hand ] again
and again. Except for the increased vigor, the sensations ·of this
contact were those of the preceding one. Mrs. Bird makes the
point, [generalizing from her numerous views of the muss,] that
visually the structure is waxy or doughy. Bird finds from recol-
lection of his contacts that [tactually as well] the structure is
dense.8
He means to apply this t erm to the granular structure
of the material, and not as indicating the hardness or softness
of the mass-[this, as noted in several places, is decidedly soft].
Hill states and Bird emphatically endorses [as he has already indi-
cated parenthetically] that one's impression on contact with the
mass is not that of contact with any gas- or fluid-filled membrane.
[When Bird, in amplification of this, stated that] it seemed clearly
a homogeneous mass throughout, [the word was given an] enthusi-
astic reception by several sitters, as just the word for which they
had been searching. ~ralter said we would see a great deal more in
the pictures.
10:11. Richardson was instructed to give his two leading
fingers to the Psychic. They were carried to her face and used
to finger the teleplasmic mass. Walter asked Richardson whether
he felt skin, and Richardson said he plainly did-a distinct change
s An interesting example of the tendency of one sitter to 1
·eport in concrete
while another reports and thinks in abstract terms. Presumwbly what Mrs. Bird
means by ''waxy' ' or ' 'doughy'' is precisely the same effect as that of which I
think in te1
·ms of a density of structure.-J. M. B.
230 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
over what he had felt before, an unmistakable skin 'Ire t. Crandon,
in rendering a similar report on a similar exp rim nt , uses the
adjectives "rough, almost warty." There is repetit ion of th con-
tact by Richardson with verification of the rough-skin c.ff ct . Gerke,
instructed to come near and make the same experim nt, [hesitat d
to state at the time the only simile that occurred to h im as giving
mental satisfaction. He said he would report to B ird later; but
vValter ragged him into reporting before the oth r itt ers, to th
effect that] the nearest he could come to describi11g th - mass was
that it felt like a woman's breast. Richardson was ao·ain in contact
with the mass; then it was Conant's t urn. Walter t, ~ the mass
audibly with Richardson's fingers. Conant, repor ting
tact, says that the temperature was somewhat below hi wn.
10:16. Richardson feels the mass in red light. erke asks
where the cord from the ear enters the mass; '¥alter ·11. from the
back. Mrs. Richardson, reporting on contact, say · th mass fe ls
to her like dry dough; dough that has been expos l to I he air for
a while and has developed a bit of crust on its out r surface.
Crandon endorses this and Bird is inclined to agrc . -IilJ is a k d
by Walter to put his finger in the teleplastic " mou fll " and to
verify that the mass is cooler therein than elscwher on its suTf c .
Hill reports that this difference is clearly perceptibl . Th sur-
face effect now suggests to Hill that of a fine-grain cl Morocco
leather that has just been freshly finished. The gen ral verdict is
that the mass is getting more granular on it s outer sur££
L c. Gerke
suggests that the mass is larger than it has been; Bird ag rees.
While Bird was changing [from the second to t h t hird] diet -
phone cylindei· Mrs. Bird travelled around the room, [ ming to a
place behind Richardson], and felt the teleplasmic ma. . On thus
seeing it more closely than at any previous moment, sh ob er cl
a slight pinkish tinge and certain faint vein-like markings. Tht
· feeling was that of a homogeneous mass under a thin, fi11 skin like
a baby's; [but Mrs. Bird agrees with Bird's obscrvati n that the
absence of compression and the characteristics o£ tb fl ow und r
indentation were such as to forbid the assumption that we w rc
dealing with a gas- or fluid-filled membrane] .
10:20. Red light given to verify the set-up for anoth r pictur ,
which Gerke wa-
nts to pose so that it will show the j LID ti n betw en
the ear-cord and the main mass. The Psychic is ere t, the mass
on her shoulder. All the touching by sitters of the 1a t few para-
graphs has been clone with her head on T . The cirei has gon
pretty much into the discard during the past ten minu L
cs or o;
[but there has been no sacrifice of control of the P sychi hers lf].
PLATE 17. AN UNDATED SEANCE PHOTOGRAPH SHOWIN-G A TELEPLASMIC STRUC'£URE
IDENTICAL WITH THAT OF AUGUST 13'!'H. DOUBTLESS OBTAINED IN ONE OF THE
SITTINGS OF CHAPTER XX OR XXIV; PRESENTED HERE BECAUSE OF ITS PHOTOGRAPillC
EXCELLENCE AND ITS PARALLELISM WITH Tlj:E PIC'£URES OF THIS CHAP'£ER.
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTIN GS 231
10 :24. Victrola slowing. Several sitters state that . this
occurred earlier, but by a wide margin not so strongly as now.
The machine now is apparently about to die. [Walter made some
r emark which was interpreted as a disclaimer of r esponsibility for
the effect.]
10 :25. V
Valter asks R ichardson t o feel t he ear-cord between
the tips of two fingers. Richardson says that it feels like a piece of
[ cooked] spaghetti. The victrola has picked up and is running
normally.
10:28. In a brief period of bright red light, the entire laryngeal
mass is seen hanging and oscillating freely through a short arc
[in a way interpret ed by the observers as. implying suspension]
from the nose-cord. The r ed light is r epeat ed to check up Walter's
correction that it was not from the nose-cord, it was from the ear-
cord. So far as the eye could judge, it was hanging from either
cord or from both. \i'Valter says there is no t ension on the nose-
cord; [but this cord lay perfectly straight, and] its bulk was such
that Bird felt the statement would have to be t aken on faith. [One
simply could not judge whether it were under t ension or not;]
but the ear cord was clearly tensed. Hill points out that in the
very brief inter val between these exposures ther e was marked
change in the outline of the mass. [ Some sitters feel able to
endorse this, others cannot say ; nobody feels able to deny it.]
10:30. Walter objects to our taking anything on faith and
gives a fresh exposure to r ed light. [Waiting for this, Bird and
Hill discussed whether we should find the nose-cord detached, or
lying in an arc, a~ a means of showing the absence of t ension.]
The nose-cord is seen detached from the nostril, fallen below the
main mass and hanging ther e ; the t eleplasmic mass is now plainly
oscillating on the ear-cord alone. ['iValter had stat ed at the
beginning of all this that his purpose was to demonstrat e the
strength of the ear-cord and the integrity of its junction with the
Psychic.] The consensus of opinion placed the diameter of the
ear-cord her e at ~B inch. [Bird is certain this was a heavy over-
statement; nobody r ealizes how big an eighth-inch is until it is
driven home upon him.] In bright red light for another second or
two, the t eleplasmic mass is seen on the P sychic's chin and j aw as
her head is inclined sharply to the right.
10 :34. One second of bright r ed light is g iven. The laryngeal
mass looked to Cr andon liJc.:~ a whole face. The nose-cord is in
place again. The mass hung slightly to one side of the median line
of the P sychic's face, ext ending below the chin. It seemed to Bird
larger than before, [and no sitter contradicted this]. :Mrs. Rich-
232 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ardson suggested that it looked like a gourd. In repetition of this
red light, the t eleplasmic mass is seen hanging below the Psychic's
left cheek, partly above and partly below her chin. Both cords
are as before. It seemed to Hill as though the mass projected
almost at right angles from the left frontal corner of the j aw.
10:36. Flashlight. vValter promises an improvement for
tomorrow night. [In fact we got a blank so far as the teleplasm
was concerned.]
10 :42. The victrola is slowing again; Walter says it has noth-
ing to do with him.
10 :50. After a long delay, stated by Walter to be due to
exhaustion of his resources and consequent difficulty of proper with-
drawal, he said good night. The Psychic apparently came out of
trance little, if any, before this. When the red light goes on at
the end of the sitting M is found on T. Crandon explains that
Walter had used it to express his loud appreciation of a story told
by Mrs. Bird just before his departure. He had been trying hard
to get us laughing and joking, to facilitate his winding-up proc-
esses, but most of us felt that [under repeated demands of this
character, these two evenings,] we had told all the jokes we knew.
[In the after-search by Mrs. Bird, it developed that there were
slight pink stains on the Kotex napkin which the Psychic wore,
tonight as last night. In view of previous experiences and allega-
tions revolving about this point, it should be stated that there were
no traces of this sort on the seance table or on the hands of the
sitters who touched the teleplasm. During the day the Psychic
expressed complete well-being; after the seance, exhilaration.
A generalization agreed upon by several sitters is that the
Psychic shrinks from contact by the sitters with the teleplasmic
mass ; and that not always, but often, she groans under such con-
tact. Bird is fairly confident that so far as his own contacts with
the teleplasm are concerned, the groan has never preceded the
contact, even \vhen this was made by his hand independently of the
Psychic's.]
For the seance of . August 14th, Richardson had arranged with
Crandon, at some time during the day, that he (Richardson) should
dictate the arrangement of the sitters in the circle. My first inkling
that this was the case or that it was planned to displace Cran-
don from his usual seat came after the company h&.d gathered in the
seance room. I think it probable that had my preoccupation with
the dictaphone not made it obviously unwise for me to occupy the seat
P LM'E 18. THE FINAL PIC'l'URIC (10: 36) m' AUGUS'l' 13TH, SIIOWING 'l'IIE IJARGE MASS
HANGING FR8E ON 'l'HE CORDS JOI NING 11' '1'0 '!'HE NOSE AND EAlt.
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 233
next the P sychic, this seat would have been assigned me--especially
had I asked for it. There being no substitute available for me at the
dictaphone, one had to be used for the position of control; and this
was accordingly assigned to Hill. This choice I regarded as an
.entirely logical one.
Initially, the small dark megaphone (l\I) was in the cabinet, at the
P sychic's right, on the floor, as always. Outside the cabinet, at the
·east (the Psychic's right), with the wing of the cabinet between her
and them, stood quite a collection of apparatus : hole bell-box, dough-
nut, basket, etc. There was no place for these on the evening's pro-
gram, but they were not removed because it has become more or less
customary to store them at this point. Some or all of them had in
the same way been present during the two preceding evenings. In
accordance with the custom when it could be inferred thab they would
not be used, they had not been activated; but with some straining of
the eye the various painted spots and areas on them were faintly visible
at short range, in the seance darkness.
Seance of August 1'1, 1925: 10 Lime Street. Dictaphonic
record by Bird with aid of other sitters; transcribed verbatim,
with parenthetic elaboration by Bird.
Circle formed at 9:02, [and seance held in total darkness
throughout] . Order, clockwise : Psychic, Richardson, Crandon,
Mrs. Richardson, Bird, Hill, Psychic again. Three cameras in
use as on two preceding evenings ; Conant and Gerke in charge.
Mrs. Bird outside the circle, on chair, behind Bird-Mrs. Richard-
son space. Luminous control of ankles, but not of head or wrists
in view of photographic expectations. [Dictaphone manipulation
as on two preceding nights. The Psychic, in robe and slippers,
prepared for the seance under Mrs. Richardson's supervision.J
9:07. Hill reports a marked increase in the temperature of the
Psychic's right hand. It started cool, and is now a bit warmer
than normal.
9:11. No indication of 'iValter's presence having been previ-
ously given, M is heard scraping about the floor. Richardson
reports contact on ends of his fingers.
9:13. Richardson reports trance.
9:14. Bird feels a contact on his left leg; Hill says it was not
he. Immediately following, :Mrs. Richardson reports cool breezes
under T. [The fan was not going tonight.] Crandon and Richard-
234 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
son verify this, and the cool breeze is felt on Hill's left hand. Bird
too feels it vigorously.
9:15. Contact on Richardson's finger and knee; contact on
Bird's left ankle and instep as of searching finger (or toe).
9:17. Considerable blowing by the Psychic in trance, and
marked tremor of her right hand.
9 :20. Richardson touched on the back of his left hand; then he
reports a fumbling contact on the front of his vest, as though
in search of his watch. Hill reports a similar contact on the front .
of his shirt, while he himself has an eye on the foot controls.
9 :24. Hill reports a marked touch on his shirt front, with
foot controls 0. K.
9:26. M fell to floor; [whence, is not known].
9:27. Victrola slowing badly; marked blowing and smacking in
trance.
9 :28. M is moving up Hill's left leg with considerable pres-
sure. About to mount T, it falls to floor instead; then moves
freely about under T. Hill reports foot controls visible and
motionless.
9 :29. M is heard on T; then is thrown violently to the floor
on Bird's side. Victrola is not so slow [as it was], but is still
below normal speed.
9 :30. M had been thrown into a position [which seems] totally
inaccessible to the Psychic, in the region between Bird's chair and
Bird's and Hill's feet. Nevertheless Hill now reports it moving up
his leg again. Neither Bird nor Hill had been conscious of its
withdrawal to that side [from Hill's right]. Creaking of C heard;
heard again; and a third time, quite vigorously.
9 :34. The basket [marked with luminous paint but not acti-
vated, as stated above] is brought into C by ·walter from its usual
preliminary position outside the east wing. It is heard, and very
faintly seen, moving about on T; and Hill felt considerable con-
tact with it on its way into C.
9 :35. The victrola is about. normal and has been so for some
time.
9:36. Violent shuddering and twisting by the Psychic, confined
to the right side. Crandon remarks that sittings of this character
have been held in the past, when it turned out that nobody was pres-
ent except John [Richardson], holding the fort in Walter's absence.
A voice from C [is here heard, saying]: "That's me." This was
PLATE 19. VIEWS FRO·M O'l'HER ANGLES (SEE PLATES 15, 18) AT 'rHE •
riii!ID AND
FOUlt'l'H FLASHLIGA:TS Q}' AUGUS'l' 13, 1925.
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 235
followed by a whistle. After some discussion, it appears that
'i\Talter is present, in charge of the trance, et c.; but that John is
doing the telekinesis.
9:37. It is not known with certainty, but it is believed that
the luminous doughnut (D) was not initially on the basket (B),
but on the hole bell-box. ' ¥ hen D is seen floating freely about T ,
therefore, it is concluded that Walter brought it in as he had
brought B, but independently. [These sentences edited in tran-
scription, to smooth out very incoherent dictation.] ' ¥ alt·~r says
[we are right,] D was on HB. Like B, it is extremely faint, [and
visible with the utmost difficulty] . HB is now being stevedored
across the floor, [independently of any motion by CJ. Hill's hand
is brought up to the right side of the P sychic's head. B is in motion
on T and levitating with considerable freedom cin and over T. I n
response to Mrs. Richardson's request B is dropped into her lap,
whence it falls to the floor. R ichardson is touched on the right
knee.
9 :40. B is in motion under T ; both foot controls visible to
H ill, and motionless. B is in free motion on the floor and in the
space beyond T , between T and the knees of Bird and Mrs. Richard-
son. Foot controls visible and motionless, reports Hill. B is
brought on to Mrs. Richardson's lap, back to the floor, to her lap
again, to Bird's knees, and finally dropped to the floor.
9 :42. Walter says he got a little too much light last night,
from the flashes. ' ¥ ith both foot controls visible to Hill and mo-
tionless, B rises to Mrs. Richardson's lap and Bird's knee, then
rattles about in contact with T leg, Bird's toes and the floor. It
rises to knee level and falls to the floor. Foot controls visible to
Hill, and motionless. Additional control during this episode by
Mrs. Richardson of Crandon's knee.
!) :44. B in motion. Quite violent perturbation of C. In
response to request by Mrs. Richardson, r ap s on C. Touch on
Richardson's right forearm. D shifts across T. Foot and hand
cont rols 0. K. Hill reports a marked breeze from C on his left
hand and forearm and the left side of his head. Strong apparent
motion of C. [ All the above in ext reme rapid succession.]
9 :46. The P sychic's elbows are on T and she leans forward.
Crocks.
9 :47. The P sychic is erect again.• Violent disturbance of C.
236 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
9 :51. Touches outside Hill's left leg; foot control [reported
by Hill] 0 . K. The victrola is slowing badly.
9:52. Touches on Hill's left arm, and he 0. K.'s the foot
control. Walter calls for objects [to be putJ on T for identifica-
tion. Hill supplies one. Rapping heard on T. "A ring," says
Walter, several times. [No response of any sort from Hill.1
"Wait a moment," says Walter, "I'm not so sure. Don't know
just what it is, but it's metal, like a Yale key, with a seal on the
end." Banging on T ensues, [presumably with Hill's object].
Bird now attempts to identify this object. It is metal, he finds,
and he thinks it is a stamp for use with sealing wax, with a hole
in the end of a curiously shaped shank, so that it might conceivably
be carried as a watch charm. [This turns out to be entirely ac-
cm;ate; but the idea in Hill's mind revolved about the design of
the seal, which is in some way curious or unique. J Walter speaks
up: "It has letters on it." [This is wrong, it is rather a design.J
9:56. Bird puts an object down for identification; [the met al
cap, with rubber safety grip, off one of the dictaphone cylinders].
Walter taps T with it and says it is some part of a machine; he
doesn't know just what; .a little frying-pan arrangement, with
something in it. Beyond that he can't say. [The description is
quite pat, and strongly implies a t actile or pseudo-tactile or para-
taCtile mechanism of some sort. J
10 :00. Richardson put down [for identification a deck of cards
in the case]. The victrola is rather slow, and there is considerable
trance complaint. "A little book of some sort," [says Walter].
It falls to the floor. "Never mind, I'll get it," [says Walter].
Difficulty of some sort [ensues in connection with the attempt at
recovery].
10:02. The object is restored toT by Walter. The victrola
is in great distress. VValter: " It's a pasteboard box." Richard-
son: "What's in it?" Walter: "Oh, have a heart." [The pun
is apparently accidental.]
10:05. Extreme tremor of the Psychic's hands.
10:10. While Bird was changing the dictaphone cylinder,
Conant produced an object for identification. Walter says : "It's
a celluloid measure of some sort, isn't it?" The Psychic's hands
are both very restless and she groans considerably.
10:14. Returning j;o Conant's identification, Walter says that
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 237
as near as he can make out, it's saw-toothed on one edge and smooth
on the other. Not necessarily saw-toothed, he modifies, perhaps
just rough. About twelve inches long. Conant reports it a six-inch
celluloid rule. The victrola is sick again.
10 :16. Walter says he is going. The Psychic is out of trance.
Walter reiterates that the reason why no teleplasm was got tonight
was the extreme amount of flashlight last night. He says the light
dissolves it; if he can keep it from getting luminous it doesn't dis-
solve, but the moment it luminesces dissolution begins.
Hill reports that at all moments of the seance when it was
pertinent, the foot control was visible to him and motionless. He
and Richardson report that hand control of the Psychic was un-
broken at any time during the seance.
Conant's scale turns out to be graduated on both edges, but
the graduations on one edge are much deeper than on the other,
and give much more a tactile impression of roughness or inden-
tation.
[The recovery of the apparatus from behind the cabinet is so
suggestive of invasion that it seems desirab~e to specify : as usual,
the door was closed and locked. The cabinet was found, at the end,
in very approximately its initial position.]
The recovery, by Walter, of the apparatus from outside the cab-
inet, with its introduction into the theater of action, is unique in the
l1istory of the mediumship. The adverse critic will wonder whether
the substitution of Hill for Crandon at the medium's right did not
interfere with the procedure which had been used for the production
()f the teleplasm, throwing the Psychic back upon the necessity for
improvization and thus leading to new phenomena. The feet alone
would be available for the production of these, under the oblique
theory; the hand control cannot be attacked. · Escape from the
luminous foot control along the lines postulated by the Harvard group
would presumably have been possible; for the Psychic wore slippers
rather than stockings.
The record does not contradict this theory, and in some features
seems to bear it out. The first objeCt recovered from the storehouse
outside the east wing was the basket; and its appearance in the
theater of action was preceded by creakings of the cabinet. Disturb-
ance of the cabinet continued throughout the seance, and particularly
238 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
such disturbance preceded or accompanied the introduction of further
pieces of apparatus into the active theater. From 9 :44 to 9:47 there
went on what might be interpret ed as a restoration of the cabinet to
its approximate initial position; after this, no further apparatus was
brought in from without. And at 9:37 the r ecord suggests that the
hole bell-box was found in the way of this restoration process and had
to be moved as a preliminary thereto.
Even Houdini, _
however, when obliged to picture the cabinet as tilted
backward, admitted9
that this would require the medium's hand; that
she could not do it with an unaided foot. On the present occasion,
then, we must picture the cabinet as shoved bodily backward, rather
than tilted up to permit the apparatus to pass under it. But the
arrangement of the circle was such that the clasped hands of Hill and
the Psychic rested, not on the t able, but on his knee and her own. That
is to say, the two knees were close together, in contact intermittently
rather than continuously; Hill's elbow and forearm lay along his own
leg and on his own knee, with Margery's similarly on hers; the clasped
hands would now be in contact with one or both knees, now perhaps
for a time free in space as the Psychic's restlessness carried her knee
.further than usual from Hill's. Though of course no attempt can be
made at any generalization covering the relations existing between both
hands and both knees throughout the sitting, it seems clear that under
any auangement which might obtain at any moment, the Psychic's
right leg could hardly be used with any degree of freedom, without the
awareness of the sitter at her right. The allegation that this fraud
ruled at the Harvard sittings requires rebuttal only by virtue of the
fact that at all of these save the last, Crandon sat at her right. Hill in
particular is a very ent erprising sitter-on more than one occasion he
has engaged in spontaneous exploration on a scale which I would not
p ursue without some expectation of receiving Walter's reproof. That
the right foot could be used in moving the cabinet with him at Margery's
right is only a little less -preposterous than the supposition that it was
the left foot thus working on the right wing. It therefore becomes
necessary to point out that all the potential clements of suspicion in the
record are equally the sort of thing that would happen if a bulky
teleplasmic terminal were fishing for the apparatus around the corner
of the cabinet. And when we give due regard to the fact that the
foot which pushed the cabinet back would have to pull it forward again.
9 M . M ., p. 420.
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 239
we may fairly insist upon the favorable interpret ation of the whole
sequence.
The general considerations set forth on p age 214 det er one from
attempting any serious demo1~stration of the r eality of the t eleplasm
of the first two evenings of this series; a far more severe search of
the medium than was given would be only one of sever al elements which
would have to be added before any r ational person would make such
attempt . W e can, however , and we must, at this. st age pause to ask
just wher e we have attained. The present seances are obviously of
enormous interest and importance; nev~rth eless it is evident that my
initial plan for examination of the t elekinetic side of the mediumship
is permanently sidetracked and defeat ed. A series of business emer-
gencies in New York and elsewhere, followed by illness in the Cran-
don household, made it impossible during the ensuing two months for
me to go again to Boston, and hence made it unnecessar y for me to
give such definite consider ation as otherwise I should have been forced
to give, to the question whether I should t erminat e the present project
or make another effort.
I was inclined toward its t ermination. It did not seem to me at
all profitable to study the t eleplasmic manifest ations until a more
nearly inescapable presumption of general validity had been built up.
For the t eleplasm can never be proved valid on its own merits, as my
introductory r emarks to the p resent chapter indicat e. N ot only do
the general consider ations which I have ther e elucidat ed p revent this;
we have further the very sp ecial fact that every photogr aph of tele-
plasm, in the very nature of the case, looks more or less like some p ar-
ticular mat erial obj ect and suggest s t o the skeptic explanation in t erms
of this app earance. Very clearly, the orderly consider ation of a
versatile mediumship like Margery's involves, first , a prolonged attack
upon the problem of demonstrating the t elekinetic validit y ; and only
after some large degr ee of success should we p ass t o study of the
intrinsic properties of the t eleplasm.
This of course does not involve any r ecession from my personal con-
viction of validity; nor does it in any .sense contradict that conviction.
At this dat e I knew M arger y's phenomena to be valid because of the
extraordinar y char act er of my exposure to them and to her and to
Crandon. My exp erience could not possibly be explained away, but at
the same time I could not put it before another person, a non-observer ,
with the demand that he accord all elements ther ein the weight which
+hey had in my mind. It seems a trifle anomalous for one who aspires
240 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
to scientific method to say that he knew the phenomena to be valid but
was not in a position, to insist that this had been proved. It had,
however, been proved to me ; but with d:ue regard for the circumstance
that we are dealing with a factual sequence and not with a logical
syllogism, I could not put this proof forward too insistently for others
to accept. Further discussion of my individual viewpoint and my
public position in the light of the seances of these four chapters will
Le found on the opening pages of Chapter XXXI.
I had no intent of abandoning the mediumship, of course; any
abandonment would involve merely the present project. And it seemed
about time to admit that inversion of the program had brought about
this defeat; when the proposal came from Crandon, who assumed the
project still to be alive, that I make my "next." visit in October, in
connection with the climax that was now being so rapidly reached
with Richa~·dson' s VCO machine.10
This suggestion I accepted, with
very fruitful results so far as concerns demonstration through the
VCO machine of the independence of the vValter voice. But the matter
is so entirely one of the voice tests, and so little in ·line with the course
of events that has brought us from the record of June 16th to that
of August 14th, that it may well go into the chapter devoted to the
VCO machine.
A summary of the work accomplished in the present project, if
made at the time, would be considerably less sanguine than if made
to-day, in 1927. For to-day we have behind us the extremely clean-cut
demonstration of validity through use of the glass cabinet.U It really
seems as though we are now entitled to say that no rational critic
has the right of resisting the accumulated weight of the evidence. If
this be so, we may turn back to August, 1925, for study of the other
aspect of the case, secure in the presumption of validity reflected upon
this by the 1926 history of the case. From this viewpoint, the work
of July and August, 1925, was very important and altogether worth
while. At the time, of course, one could only lay these records aside
for future reference, in the hope that the future course of the case
would thus make them citable as documents of importance.
One positive and final statement remains to be made. The com-
plete success of the dictaphonic recording was now a matter of no
possible question; and the balance of advantages and disadvantages
10 Chapter XX.
11 Chapters XXV, XXVI, XXVIII, XXIX, etc.
THE CLIMAX OF THE A.S.P.R. SITTINGS 241
seemed somewhat in favor of my giving it my personal attention. The
gain in recording under this procedure more than offsets any slight
loss in my own ability to concentrate upon observation. For the
recording is my own unique responsibility, and nobody else can dis-
charge this responsibility for me; whereas the very fact that I record
the obseTvations of all sitteTs is a confession that this part of the
seance-room duties is not my own exclusive prerogative. Moreover,
the distraction of my own attention is not at all critical; I can come
very close to doing as much and as good observing as I need to do, even
with the operation of the dictaphone on my mind and hands.
CHAPTER XVII
The Telekinesis of Later 1925
From the Seance Records, with Comment by the Editor
It must not be inferred that the four series of serious, formal
seances afforded me on behalf of the A.S.P.R. and detailed in the four
preceding chapters absorbed the entire attention of the mediumship
during the summer of 1925. l'he reverse was very much the case ;
sittings were held more frequently during that summer than during the
corresponding period of either of the following years, and the ordinary
development of the case went on at approximately its ordinary pace.
The present chapter, however, represents not so .much any fundamental
deviation from preexisting t elekinetic routine, as an attempt to keep
the topical treatment of the case from getting too far out of step with
the chronological sequence. The telekinetic standardization which I
have stressed in Chapter VI and from which the sittings of Chapter
XIII diverge only in detail, rather than in principle, was continued
through the summer. A few of the seances of this period have already
been covered in Chapter VIII. Dates on which the t elekinetic routine
was experienced in Lime Street, without features dictating the inclu-
sion of full records in other chapters than the present one, include
July 5th, 6th, 8th, 9th, 14th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, 27th, 28th, 30th, 31st,
August 3rd, 8th, 9th, 15th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 30th, September 1st, 3rd,
20th, 26th, October 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 23rd. On many of these dates
there were episodes falling in some other category and described in
some other chapter; on all of them there occurred more or less of the
routine t elekinetic display defined in Chapt er VI. I give with a min-
imum of comment such extracts from the records as describe phenomena
or conditions at all critical in any respect.
July 5th: Murray put a small pocket note-book on the t able;
the light was then turned on for twenty seconds, and during that
time the book moved without visible contact from anything, eight
inches, away from Murray and toward the P sychic. The light was
then put out. Crandon pointed out to 'iValter that this might be
open to the criticism that the Psychic was pulling it toward herself
with a hair or thread. " Very well," said Walter, " turn on the
light again." This was done; · and the note-book was seen to be
242
THE TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1925 243
half on the west edge of the table and half on the knee of Hubbs.
It now st arted in motion, without visible contact of any sort, and
went nine inches eastward toward Crandon. During this, the
Psychic's and Crandon's heads were moved freely to show that there
were no connecting links between these heads and the moving book;
after which Murray picked up his book, showing that it had no
connection with anyone. · .
VVhethcr we arc to assume that the light continued throughout the
motion and up to the time when Murr-
ay recovered his note-book is not
clear from the record; if it r eally happened so, it is most unfortunate
that the record does not make it clear.
On the 8th, ·w alter "for the first time picked the big megaphone up
from the flon!' beyond the table, and put it on the t able." This is a
feat which could obviously not be charged against the Psychic's feet;
but of course the record can t ell us nothing pertinent to the exclusion of
confederacy by one of the sitters on that side. The length of a
teleplasmic rod adequate for this act would be at least five feet . L at er,
the megaphone was thrown from the table " completely over the
cabinet, hitting the ceiling in transit and landing on the floor back of
the cabinet." A brilliant performance was also given by one of the
wicker baskets.
This was placed on the west end of the t able and on turning
on the. red light it was seen to be balancing on the edge of the table.
It was then lifted to vertical and slowly laid over to the horizontal
in good red light.
On the 9th, the movement on the t able of an object contributed
by a sitter was given something of a climax. My own records says:
Miner put a small leather note-book on the table. This was
the object of several isolat ed demonstrations. R ed light would
go on, and the note-book would be seen on the t able, at rest; it
would then go into motion and proceed toward the edge of the
t able. One or two final episodes were even more extraordinary.
On the incidence of red light, the note-book would be seen at the
extreme edge of the table, hanging over. It would t eeter on the
edge, seesawing up and down over space, and likewise moving
further off the t able to make it absurdly evident that it lacked
normal means of support. It hung wholly or almost wholly off
the bible thus for several seconds, then descended to floor, but
\
244 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
not falling freely; and did not strike as from a fall, but rather
as being laid down.
My record from which I quote the above also carries a reminder
of a general factor that ran through numerous seances of this period.
VValter, in philosophizing about the Harvard "exposure," had con-
cluded that one way to prevent the future occurrence of that sort
·of thing was to revert to the late 1924 attitude of seeking to bring
the pheomena out into the light. It was true that, influenced by the
keen desire of his numerous friendly sitters to see better teleplasmic
displays, he had been gravitating throughout the first half of 1925
toward phenomena occurring in large degree in darkness, with large
dependence upon the luminous paint for such visibility as they might
possess. He now definitely proposed to get away from this and to
work for phenomena in light. Clearly, there may be a difference of
opinion as to what constitutes "phenomena in light," but that is
neither here nor there. Likewise, one would expect that now as in
1924 the atmosphere of the seances would be that of gradual approach
toward ideal conditions of illumination; and this expectation was in
accord with the course of events. Finally, the lesson for new pro-
cedure which the familiar sitters ultimately drew from the Code-
Hoagland episode 'and put into effect in the seance room was a
different one, and involved an attempt to idealize the conditions of
control rather than those of illumination. But for the immediate
present, Walter's seance philosophy became that of the gradual attack
upon the production of phenomena in light. In accordance with
this philosophy, all the action of July 9th, to which any significance
was to be attached occurred during red-light intervals. And I may
also add, with my own endorsement, the following from Crandon's
record of the note-book action got on that date:
The light was good, all hands were visible and none moved,
the P sychic's head did not move, and her feet and knees were
visible and apparently did not move.
For July 14th, in addition to the routine production of several
other items in the telekinetic schedule, the performance with the basket
was carried to new extremes :
The luminous basket was then put on the table and made to
balance in the dark on one edge of the table in a way that could
· THE TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1925 245
not be done normally. It was then put over on the floor to the
right of the Psychic, and lifted thence to the table and higher.
On request of Hill it was turned upside down and so lifted high
in the left side of the cabinet between Richardson and the Psychic.
These things were all done in the dark. Then in the dark the
basket was lifted up to the middle of the east edge 1
of the cabinet,
and then for a period of ten seconds of red light it was seen
suspended there without apparent means of support. Still in
red light 2
a similar phenomenon was shown on the west side of the
cabinet, the basket hanging out horizontally toward the north
with no visible support.
A statement from the .July 21st record ought to be quoted, with
the explanation that it approximates to the regular procedure; but
that the regular sitters are so habituated to this procedure that they
usually fail to record it explicitly. The statement 1n question reads:
All the apparatus was examined carefully by the strange
sitters in full light outside the seance room before the sitting.
The seance room door was locked throughout the sitting.
The record for July 27th indicates an unusual degree of precision
of control: aU the telekinetic phenomena of a very versatile seance
"were accomplished under control consisting of De "\iVyckoff's hold
on the Psychic's two hands, Miss Boring's hold on both Crandon's
hands and her contact with his knees and chin, and the wearing by
the Psychic of five luminous markers on her five extremities." This
could be done on the present occasion without any question of Walter's
disapproval inasmuch as there was no thought of taking photographs
and no sitter able to handle the photographic technique.
July 30th saw one incident strongly suggesting the use by Walter
of two separate terminals. The record says, of this:
He put the doughnut in the basket held high by Miss Keith;
then he seized the basket and held its handle and the doughniit
apparently in the one grasp. But then, still holding the doughnut
high in air and motionless, he threw the basket across the room.
All controls were beyond reproach throughout.
On the following night, July 31st, approximately the usual per-
formance with the basket was given, but over an unusual spatial range
1 I.e., at the Psychic's right, on Crandon's side of her.-J. M. B.
2 But not the same continuous interval of light.-J. M. B.
246 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
and in zones to which it would be more difficult than ordinarily for the
Psychic to gain fraudulent access. And the telekinesis of an article
contributed by a sitter went to extreme lengths. The record:
H e next turned his attention to the luminous basket, ordering
the luminous band to be taken off the basket itself but leaving the
markers on the handle. In red light it was seen in contact with west
edge of the table, sliding over 45 degrees towards Miss Keith.
Then in the red light it erected itself and slowly laid itself over
on the table. This was then repeated on the east end of the table
and again on the north end. When it was done on the east end,
before it tipped it was seen to turn 90 degrees apparently of itself
before the other motion started.
vValter then asked for someone to put a personal article on
the table. Miss Clancy put her handkerchief on. When red light
was ordered the handkerchief was seen on top of the Psychic's head
and as she turned her head it fell off to the floo·r. Walter then called
for something else, and Laura Crandon put her handkerchief,
much perfumed, on the table. In the dark Miss Keith immediately
noted the p erfumed handkerchief under her nose. Then red light
was ordered and the handkerchief was seen floating in the air
above Psychic's head, undulating and rotating. The angles or
corners of the ha:udkerchief were pulled out in four points. The
whole roughly resembled a j ackstone. This was shown to us twice
thus floating and the second time while we still looked at it, it
decended slowly on the Psychic's head.
This handkerchief stunt was repeated a few nights later. The
record for August 6th tells us :
On request, L aura Crandon's handkerchief was put on the
table, and when red light was allowed it was seen rotating slowly
above the P sychic's head in the cabinet, free from all apparent
connection with anything. Three views were given of this,3
and
each time it was nearer the Psychic's head.
On August 9th, after having thrown the megaphone into the space
between the Psychic's chair and the back wall of the cabinet, Walter
retrieved it himself, bringing it back to the table; the record asserts
that this had never been done before. The throwing away of the
basket while the doughnut was held steady in the air was repeated
a In separa.te intervals of red light.- J. M. B.
THE TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1925 247
here; and, in the usual intermittent red light, an unusually fine
demonstration was given of the balancing and erection of the basket
at the edge of the table.
The statement of the August 15th record: "toward the end of the
sitting, when he came to levitation of the heavier objects, Walter had
to use light trance," is one which should obviously be filed for possible
future reference.
The basket performance of August 17th was, apparently, in some
details at least different from its predecessors:
This was revealed in red light balancing at an impossible
angle on the westerly edge of the table, directly in front of Bentley.
It then went over still farther toward him, then erected itself, and
then fell over on the table. On the east side of the table it wa~
next seen balancing in red light. It then erected itself and rotated
through 90 degrees, then tipped over. Laura Crandon put a
handkerchief on the table and it was seen next in red light, rotating,
or better spinning, at the right of the Psychic's head and six inches
above it. This was shown a second time at a· different level. The
control conditions were "perfect."
The record for the 18th testifies to double hand control of both
Margery and Crandon, presumably by the adjoining sitters; with
luminous controls on the Psychic's ankles.
September 1st saw another very good demonstration by the basket.
Red light was given and it was found on Abbott's edge of the table
and t ilted toward him at an impossible angle. "Then in good red
light it straightened itself to the vertical, rotated 90 degrees, and
then fell over horizontally."
The seance of October 2nd, I ought to state, must not be held
against Prince in his refusal to be impressed by the mediumship. It
is true that he had no immediate answer to the VC04
machine and that
he never availed himself of the permission given him to visit the house
in the daytime for purposes of experiment with it. But I suppose
he would plead, as Rhine later pleaded,5
that he did not lcnow that
there was not some way of defeating it. As regards the rest of the
phenomena, he found no actual evidence of fraud but several respects
in which the phenomena as presented paralleled the way in which
4 Chapter XX.
5 Page 512.
248 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
they would have been presented if done by the fraudulent methods
which he had in mind ; and other respects in which, to look forward
again to Rhine's paper, they were given under conditions that might
have permitted fraud, and that so far as he could see were not essential
for genuine phenomena. All this is duly set down in more detail in
Prince's own words in Chapter XXI.
To this date, in the three espisodes of handkerchief spinning,
there has prevailed a distressing common factor-in each case it was
Laura Crandon who was called upon to place her handkerchief on
the table. The record for October 3rd meets this situation very
squarely:
Returning now to red light phenomena, Hill was asked to put
a handkerchief on the table. After a brief time Walter allowed
us to have red light for two seconds· and we beheld the handker-
chief suspended above the head of the Psychic, rotating on a
vertical axis, but not hanging limp as it would have if it had had
but one point of support. This experiment he repeated success-
fully; and the handkerchief was afterwards, in the dark, rubbed
across the faces of two of the sitters. All phenomena were under
strict double control in the dark and single control in the light.
The handkerchief stunt was repeated on October 23rd, and one
who looks upon it in terms of pre-seance preparation will have to
seek a new confederate; for while the record omits to state whose
handkerchief it was, neither Hill nor Laura Crandon was present.
I have mentioned incidentally, at an early point in the present
chapter, that the sitters met the Harvard ".exposure" by the develop-
ment of a new type of control. The first experiments with this control
follow hard on the period to which we have now come. The result
is that during the weeks of concentration upon these experiments,
many of the familiar aspects 'of the case fell into abeyance. Routine
telekinesis under conditions permitting inclusion in the present dis-
cussion was one of these; so we terminate the chapter here. We shall
come back later to Walter's telekinetic routine; and we shall see
that it was in no fundamental respect altered by the new conditions
of sitting.
)
I
CHAPTER XVIII
One Sitter, and His Verdict
By the Editor
The present brief chapter revolves entirely about the personality
of a particular sitter; and I may introduce it by giving in full the
following seance record:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, July lOth, 1925. Present to left:
Dudley, Adler, Mansfield, Crandon. vValter came through in
about eight or nine minutes and seemed to be cheerful as usual.
Mansfield was introduced; and he informed vValter that he had
been a Spiritualist for twenty-five years, had reached the belief
intellectually, had had it confirmed by subjective mediums, but had
never seen a valid physical medium. However, he firmly believed
in the reality of the physical phenomena. Whereupon Vvalter
rang the [SA] bell the number of times requested in red light,
and then rang it three successive times intermittently while Dudley
held it high in air and turned himself around 360 degrees. 'VValter
then " removed his force " and Dudley picked the bell-box up
and it did not ring. Walter then did unusually brilliant levitation
of doughnut, big megaphone and basket. He also rang the
Dingwall bell-box showing his terminal. All the phenomena were
done under strict double control plus the l1,1minous wrist-bands,
anklets and head-band.
Foi· Mansfield's presence I was in large part responsible: I had
sent him ·to Crandon, and had written privately stating that I could
not quite make the man out. He was either a bit of a fool, or a bit
of a rogue, or a tremendous zealot; I couldn't tell which, and Crandon
would have to determine for himself whether he cared to admit him
to the seance room. My experience with the man leading to this
pronouncement was confined to two long interviews.
Mansfield called on me the first time without appointment, intro-
ducing himself as a very old and valued friend of the Society and
of Dr. Prince, my predecessor as Research Officer. Ideas flow on to
his tongue faster than they can flow off, with the result that one's
main impression after he has been talking for three hours is of a
deluge of unordered words. Disentangling the essentials of the welter
249
250 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of disoriented conversation in which he buried me, the story that he
had to tell was approximately this :
For twenty-five years he has been a fake medium, and has practiced
all phases of this profession all over the country. As a result, he is
intimately acquainted with all the mediums now practicing. He knows
them all by their first names and knows all their private scandals and
knows how all of them achieve their results. They are frauds-all of
them, with a few conspicuous exceptions. These exceptions are
mediums through whom he has had message material of one sort or
another which defies explanation as other than valid. In addition,
he knows that certain physical phenomena occur because they occa-
sionally happen spontaneously in his presence.
H e was at the moment more or less down and out, financially and
physically. H e was going to Boston, where he was planning to start
a spiritualistic church-whether on a basis of genuine or of fraudulent
mediumship he avoided saying and I avoided asking! His whole manner
was insinuatingly and furtively confidential. He is exactly the sort of
person whom you would expect to have no other address than" General
Delivery"; and usually this is in fact the case with him. B~tt-what­
ever reservations one makes about the man himself and about other
parts of his story, it is abundantly clear that he does not exaggerate
his knowledge of the ways and means of fake mediumship. In this
respect I think he outranks anyone with whom I have talked. Houdini,
for instance, was much the same sort of egoistic, voluble, disorderly
talker; but his vaunted acquaintanceship with the actual processes
of fake mediums was largely a matter of suspicion, inference and
speculation. With Mansfield it is a matter of personal kno:..vledge
based on personal experience or personal contact with other operators
whose confidence he enjoys. Sane or insane, honest or crooked, the
man is an authority on fake mediumistic practices. He is the only
person with whom I have ever discussed the subject, for instance,
who properly appreciates the unwieldy character of most of the
trick slates described by Abbott/ and who properly appraises the
extremely high percentage of fake slat e-writings that is got by simple
sleight of hand with innocent slates. In a word, ·he knows his field
t horoughly; and if Prince was in the habit of consulting with him
as freely as Mansfield would have me believe, Prince will be able to
bear me out in this judgment.
1 B ehind the Scenes With the Medi1tms. Open Court Publishing Co.
,I
)
ONE SITTER, AND HIS VERDICT 251
As a matter of fact, not only Prince but also Dingwall does bear
me out. Mansfield is one of the very few persons aside from himself
whom Prince deigns to introduce as witnesses to the phenomena
described in " The P sychic in the House." 2
And Dingwall, when
he was in this country in 1921-22, met Mansfield, and was by him
shown what he characterizes as "a most extraordinary collection"
of "lovely gadgets " for use in the production of fake physical
phenomena. Mansfield is neither bluffing nor crazy when he represents
himself as thoroughly familiar with this field.
Crandon's first impression of Mansfield was rather favorable; h('
realized that the man was none too stable, but entertained no doubts
of his essential honesty. During the ensuing days, however, he had
more opportunity to listen to his . conversation; and he began to
entertain doubts as to his good faith and his obj ect in sitting. These
doubts did not become dominant in time to prevent Mansfield's second
attendance on July 13th ; but they were at that dat e s_
ufficient to
bring it about that the major part of the evening's record dealt with
the stranger's conduct:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, July 13th, 1925. Present, to left :
Gray, Murray, Hubbs, Mrs. Hubbs, Dr. Brown, Mansfield, Crandon.
The sitting was an hour late in starting because of a long discus-
sion of mediums and fraudulent mediums which preceded the sitting,
downstairs. Mansfield had given us a very interesting lecture on
~he fraudulent methods of both subj ective and physical mediums.
H e said that his purpose in life was to expose fraudulent mediums
for the purpose of encouraging the valid ones. He said he had
devoted fifteen years of his life to this purpose; that he had made
apparatus to aid fraudulent mediums, later to serve for their
undoing. On the subj ective side he told of himself posing as
medium, of t elling some one in the audience to hast en to the
t elephone and to notify his wife that the barn, forty miles away,
was on fire ; that he had arranged to have the barn set in a
smoldering fire and to have the housewife come out and discover it
at j'ust that moment when notified by t elephone. Then he told us
of the arrangements between mediums by which they, in fair ex-
change, give each other tips on the various dupes in the way of
believers who might come to them.
On the physical side he showed us the typical aluminum
trumpet in three sections used by standard mediums. He showed
2 Page 156 of the volume named.
252 THE MARGERY MEDIUJ:v1SHIP
how two of these trumpets hitched together in the dark would reach
across the average room. He showed us what appeared to be a
pocket pen, which, with a trigger, would extend out 48 inches;
then he hitched a luminous painted butterfly on the end of this
and then waved it about in life-like fashion. He showed us psychic
photographs; two he said were valid, the rest he said were faked.
He tried to get our Psychic to accept some of this apparatus as a
present from him. Of course she refused it, and at no time was
she left alone in a room with him. Her friends were present and
witness to every act and every word which occurred during the eve-
ning. He said that he was a working man, single, who, as often as
he saves a thousand dollars, stops work and sets out on this hobby
of his to expose fraudulent mediums. He seems to be forty-five or
fifty years old, well nourished, prominent abdomen, very dexterous
white hands and wears gold spectacles. A Masonic emblem was
notable on the left side of his coat. We are inclined to believe
that he is an emissary of some organization sent to size up the
mediumship.
At the sitting Walter came through slowly, partly we think
because it was so late. He rang the bell many times in the dark,
cracked a few jokes, more or less aimed at our strange visitor;
then rang the bell box in the red light the number of times requested
by Mansfield, and departed at 10 :40 P.M. Th~ visitor then talked
till midnight and departed in the custody of Brown and Murray.
They say that he never spoke once after he entered their automo-
bile. The evening was full of interest, and we feel sure that the
visitor went away with a lot to think about.
The Lime Street regulars were much disturbed. by Mansfield's
behavior; and particularly by his insistence upon demonstrating and
explaining the apparatus and procedures of fake mediumship in Mar-
gery's presence. They were not at all confident that this did not con-
stitute an attempt to "plant" her in some way, as Houdini had done.
In point of fact, it became obvious in rather short order that he had
simply been fishing around, for his own satisfaction, to see what would
be Margery's reaction to these things. That he was satisfied is amply
indicated in an article by him appearing in the Boston Spiritualistic
weekly, Banne1· of Life, for August 15th, 1925. From this article I
abstract enough to make it a ·matter of record in this place that this
very competent and none too lenient critic was wholly satisfied alike
with the physical and the psychological evidence of Margery's validity:
ONE SITTER, AND HIS VERDICT 253
The writer sought and obtained permission to witness the phe-
nomena of Margery. He bore no letter of introduction and was not
asked for references. He was a total stranger. He has seen all
kinds of mediums, genuine and fraudulent.
Margery has spent and is spending much money in entertain-
ing investigators and those who come to witness her phenomena.
Besides the actual outlay of money, time, energy and labor involved,
she must answer dozens of letters received weekly relative to her
seances. For a long time she avoided publicity, and she would be
unknown today but Fate decreed otherwise. None ever finds a
fraudulent medium that avoids publicity and spends money instead
of making it in demonstrating his phenomena.
F.raudulent mediums are apprehensive of strangers and if the
least bit suspicious will refuse to admit them under any one of
various pretexts. I have been told that1Margery never refused to
admit any person that proved his interest in her work, and most of
her visitors have been strangers to her. The writer was a stranger
and said frankly that he knew something of magic and fraudulent
mediumship, yet he was gladly admitted to two sittings and sat as
close as possible to the Psychic while the phenomena took place. In
admitting strangers to her seances Margery has everything to lose
and nothing to gain. She is risking the presence of one who might
p ublish a garbled account of what took place and " explain" to his
own satisfaction the phenomena on normal grounds.
Fraudulent mediums will not hold a seance in the presence of a
magician or even of one with a slight knowledge of magic or fraud-
ulent mediumship. Margery welconied to her seances world-famous
exposers of fake mediums.
Margery's mediumship is in a class by itself. Her work is not
standard. It differs entirely from that of fraudulent mediums.
And each seance is to some extent different, whereas seances by
fraudulent mediums are standardized to a large extent.
Fraudulent mediums avoid as much as possible discussing their
phenomena, no doubt through fear of making a slip. Margery
discusses her work with all interested and answers fully any question
asked.
Fraudulent mediums depend for their support almost entirely
upon messages. Margery's guide, her brother VValter, rarely gives
a message, or announces the presence of a spirit known to a sitter,
or states that he has seen or met any particular spirit. A medium
that nev:er receives a message or "impressions" for sitters is some-
thing new.
Objects levitated by fraudulent mediums are generally from five
254 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
to ten feet dist ant from t he medium and have a straight-line move-
ment, and sitters are occasionally struck by them. Objects levi-
t ated in Margery's seances are generally three or four feet distant,
frequently have a curved-line motion, and in many respects differ
from the levitations of fraudulent mediums. No sitter was ever
struck.3
Probably most Spirit ualists think that the red light in Mar-
gery's circles is about the same strength as that usually found in
seance rooms. The writer knows it is frequently many times more
brilliant, far stronger than any fraudulent ·medium would perm{t.
There are many phenomena not witnessed by the writer, repor ted
in Margery's seances, which fraudulent mediums would find it im-
possible to duplicate under the same conditions.
I bring this chapter to a close with brief reference to an inter-
view between Mansfield and myself in New York, some weeks after his
sittings. H e expressed his satisfaction and his conviction of Margery's
genuineness, more directly than he had done in print. He was particu-
larly impressed by the obvious fact that she had nothing to conceal, and
by the honesty of her reactions when he tried to demonstrate to her
some of the methods of fraud. And of course he freely admitted that
many of the phenomena which he saw could not with good sense be
visioned in terms of fraud. But he made a prophecy which has come
out more than once. If they were not more careful in admitting others
than they had been in admitting him, they would let themselves in
for serious trouble from enthusiastic exposers of the sort who do not
bother about keeping within t he facts.
The above r epresents t he present chapter as originally written,
during the summer or fall of 1927, with complete consideration given
to all the facts as they were then known to me. During the interval
ensuing before publication, however, it has been suggested to me that
in private conver sation Mansfield has t old quite a different t ale from
the one of the above extract. I have pursued these rumors into the
west ern city of their origin, and have learned that in fact he has
expressed dissatisfaction with various features of his sittings, and
has even attempted to repudiat e or explain away the document carrying
3 By this, of course, he means accidentally and with f orce; he does not mean to
rleny the frequent intentional touching of sitters by ·w alter, with megaphones and
other apparatus. Likewise, of course, in this pan1graph he speaks more f rom hearsay
than f rom direct knowledge of his own.-J . M. B.
ONE SITTER, AND HIS VERDICT 255
his name from which I have just quoted. In view of the possibility
that these viewpoints may exist in documentary form and may at
some future date achieve publicity, I have interrogated the editor of
the Banner, asking him whether Mansfield offer ed the printed report
spontaneously or whether it was solicited; whether it was published
in its original form or after revision; and whether, after its appearance,
Mansfield made protest of any sort. Mr. Scott replies by holographic
letter:
The solicitation was all on his [Mansfield'sJ part. Dr. Cran-
don had nothing to do with it and no one t ampered with the manu-
script except possibly to edit it by correcting the English. He
never protested, but on the contrary was very proud of his cff'ort1
and requested and received several free copies of the issue in which
it appeared.
Whether Mansfield's true opinion was favorable or unfavorable, it
would be sufficiently easy, assuming lack of moral fiber on his part, to
suggest motives for his giving st atements contrary to his actual beliefs.
The reader must judge for himself to what degree Mansfield's dealing
in contradiction robs his t estimony of value. Whether it does this
wholly or only in part, his first contact with the mediumship must be
described as part of the history of the case ; and the rest of the
story must then be told in justice to the facts. Indeed, it is particu-
larly necessary for me in this compilation to avoid any appearance of
~uppressing the fact that what might be interpreted as Mansfield's
final and fully considered opinion was adverse ; while it is equally
important to get the whole episode on accurat e record so far as I
can learn the facts in order that subsequent citation of this adverse
attitude may not be made without full access to all the details of his
contact with the mediumship.
4 This part of Mr. Scott 's statement I can emphatically endorse. In talking to
me, Mansfield displayed th:is same inordinate, _
almost childish, pride over having
broken into print.-J. M. B.
CHAPTER XIX
Another Sitter: The Same Verdict
By the Editor
Another of the few individuals whose contact with the case has
been of the particular sort that demands a special chapter in this
volume is the Rev. Edward H. Cotton, Unitarian minister and one of
the editorial staff of The Christian Register, a Church weekly. The
sequence of events that culminated in his attendance at Lime Street
began with his assignment to interview Houdini for his paper, the sub-
ject of course being Spiritualism and psychical research. The result
was sufficiently explosive, even though Cotton's t ext as it appeared
was necessarily for the major part about Houdini. I do not have
conveniently available the date of this publication; but I can cite
the Litera1·y Digest of July 18th, 1925, for a summary of the article
which is much more generally available than the original.
The appearance in The Christian Registe1· of this extremely violent
interview led to a deluge of letters of protest. Not a few of these came
from ministers and laymen who had sat with Margery, who, for a won-
der, had been mentioned but casually in the article. Westwood, for
instance, told the editor of his knowledge of and interest in the Margery
case, and suggested that Cotton be assigned to look into it as a fair
sample of the best aspect of the other side of the picture. After
some correspoU:dence between Cotton and Crandon, this was actually
done. Cotton attended his first seance on August 3rd, 1925. He read
my Margery book and other available literature. H e talked the subject
over in some detail with me to the extent of an entire afternoon. And,
as a result, there appeared two articles in The Christian Register for
October 8th and 15th, 1925, the second of which at least was remark-
able enough in its prima facie character. For while its predecessor
was nothing more startling than an interview with me, as Research
Officer, on the subject of physical phenomena, this second offering was
no less than an interview with Walter, pieced together as a composite
picture of Cotton's four evenings of contact with him during August.
I cite this literature here because it is characteristic of the reaction
of a certain type of mind. In interviewing me Cotton would not, and
I could not make him, stay off the subject of spiritism. I really talked
256
ANOTHER SITTER: THE SAME VERDICT 257
to him about the phenomena, stressing to my best ability the distinc-
tion between this and talking about the spirits. His printed report
of the afternoon's proceedings seizes upon and magnifies every men-
tion of the spirits, and revolves entirely about the connection of the
phenomena with the spirit hypothesis. And when Cotton got around
to the task of describing his seance room experiences, the physical
manifestations are relegated to a position of extreme obscurity while
he dilates about his impressions of the personal character and char-
acteristics of vValter.
Of course the reason for this is obvious. Cotton is a minister, and
his whole life has been spent dealing, on a religious and metaphysical
basis to be sure, but none the less definitely dealing, with the idea of
survival. The ministers who oppose spiritism and psychical research,
we must always remember, do so not because they oppose the idea of
survival. They do so for the very respectable motive that the alleged
survival of the seance room does not look to them like the survival
with which they are familiar; or for the less respectable motive that
they fear it to be the same spirit world in the two cases and resent the
intrusion upon their preserves. But whether they fear or welcome the
evidence of the seance room, their major interest in it must be in its
spiritistic bearings. This was Cotton's reaction: he was being
brought into far more concrete touch than ever before with something
that claimed to come from the other side of the veil, and his entire
interest lay in analyzing this something and determining how it checked
up with his pre-existent ideas. In his entire sanity and good sense and
in much of his philosophy Walter checked up very well, and Cotton was
strongly impelled to accept him as what he claimed to be.
I give this brief chapter to Cotton because of his published account
of the mediumship and because his viewpoint is so characteristically a
theological one. I conclude it by pointing out that he continues to sit
as opportunity offers, and that there are obviously no doubts in his
mind about the reality of the phenomena. That he accepts the spirit
interpretation and refuses even to entertain any other may or may not
be a weak point in his philosophical armor. It at least does not detract
from his representative clerical character or from the value of his
conviction of validity.
CHAPTER XX
Dr. Richardson's Voice-Control Machine
From the Seance Records, with Comment by the Editor
All the time that Walter had been playing with the water test,'
Richai'dson had been working outside the seance room with the idea
which, in its more nearly perfected form, was described by him and by
me in the Journal of the A. S. P . R. for December, 1925. Starting
May lOth, this apparatus was frequently put before Walter, and fre-
quently improved in some detail as the result of observations upon
and objections to the details of its use and the results thereof. The
records are not ·always entirely specific as to the exact nature of these
improvements and the exact form of the apparatus on a given occa-
sion. On the date named, for instance, it is indicated that what was
at that date regarded as the permanent model of mouth-piece was not
in use; but the record is ambiguous as to whether there was any mouth-
piece at all or whether the naked ends of the tubing went into the
mouths of the sitters. The point is not an important one, since the
test was in the nature of a preliminary one; but it is of importance
to observe that W·alter met this t est with complete success on first
encountering it. The record is given complete, though some of the
descriptive matter duplicates that cited from the A. S. P.R. Journal :
Sitting at 10 Lime St., May lOth, 1925. Present to left:
Dudley, Adler,·J. H. Brown, E. W. Brown, Crandon. It was not
our intention to sit tonight, because the Psychic was not feeling
at her best; but Richardson had brought in an apparatus for
independent-voice t esting and everyone was anxious for Walter to
inspect it. This apparatus consists roughly of a large U-tube
with a luminous float in each arm. One limb of the U-tube and
six other tubes lead through the cork of a large empty bottle.
Some or all of these six flexible gas-pipe tubes are held in the
mouths of the sitters, including the Psychic ; pressure enough is
blown by one or by all into the big bottle and thus into the U-tube
to raise one float and lower the other; this pressure is maintained
by the mouth of each sitter and then Walter is asked to talk or
whistle. If the pressure JS lost , any sitter may be to blame. If
1 Chapter IV.
258
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE CONTROL MACHINE 259
pressure is not lost and hand control is maintained, and if the
mouth of the Psychic is known to be free of anything that could
close her tube, a positive result would tend to prove the independence
of the voice.
vValter seemed much interested in the experiment; and at once,
while the tubes were in everybody's laps but still in the dark, he
did something which made the floats oscillate through two inches.
Dr. Brown then showed that by tucking a rubber pencil eraser into
his tube with his tongue, he could freely talk around it. On this
Walter commented: "Yes, but I defy any of you to speak as I do
with my voice." Dr. Brown then showed how the mouthpiece could
be .attached to the upper lip, while one could speak around it but
could not whistle. An informal try-out was then made, the floats
were blown to unequal levels and everyone obtained control of his
own pipe with his tongue. Then the light was turned out and
Walter spoke freely and whistled. When the new perfected mouth-
piece .comes no control of the pipes will be possible except by the lips.
Starting on the 21st, there 'vas extreme concentration upon this
new machine for vocal control, in seances more under Richardson's
own supervision and less under Crandon's than is the Lime Street
custom. No material alteration in the apparatus as a whole had been
made, but the new mouthpiece was in use and is described in the record:
May 21st, 1925; seance for the purpose of making the first
complete trial of Richardson's apparatus to prove the independent
character of \Valter's voice. The most important part of this
apparatus is the mouthpiece which each sitter has. It is made of
glass, like the curved stem of a pipe. About one and one-half inches
of the glass tube is in the user's mouth; a large glass flange prevents
further entrance. The end of the tube may be closed with the
tongue. Two little holes, top and bottom, are in the shank of the
tube; and these can be closed only by the lips. Thns, after one
sitter blows hard until the luminous floats assume a position out
of equilibrium, this condition can be maintained only if eveTy sitter
keeps the three holes of his glass terminal tightly closed by lips
and tongue. All sitters tried, with the mouthpiece thus held, to
speak and whistle; but in vain. Miner came nearest to it, but
could not make a phonetic whisper and could not repeat either
whisper or whistle.
In the dark, Walter came through very quickly in cheerful
mood, saying: "I've been having great fun, sitting watching you
folks. You don't seem to be able to work your own apparatus.
'~
B
Diagram showing the operation of the VCO machine \Yith use of the reservoir bottle; and vertical longitudinal section of
the mouthpiece in the form used from an indeterminable date in 1925, to March 26, 1926. This mouthpiece was in
use \Yhen the Editor sa.t in October, 1925; and for some time earlier. The significance of the lettered indices will for
the most part be clear from the text; any \Yhich are not clear are interpreted on pp. 676, 678, A. S. P. R. Jonnwl,
December, 1925.
l-,:l
0:.
0
8
~
t:lj
~
~
6
t:lj
~
~
t:lj
t;
~
q
~
rn
~
~
""d
PLA'l'E 20. T HE VCQ MACHINE, ASSEMBLED WITH '!'HE RESERVOIR BO'l"l'LE, AND
SPECIALLY POSED BY MARGERY AND DR. RICHARDSON. OBSERVE THE CLIPS SEALING
THE RESERVOIR CONNEC'l'IONS WHICH ARE NOT HERE IN USE.
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE-CONTROL MACHINE 261
Give me time now and I'll try it." H e then talked along merrily
in the dark, and finally said he was ready for a preliminary trial.
This was made with the ordinary circle, and had no rigorous value
because the link between Crandon and the Psychic was uncontrolled.
Walter spoke with the greatest facility.
Walter repeated this experiment several times, and then in-
structed us to set up double control: Richardson taking the Psy-
chic's two hands and Mrs. Richardson taking Crandon's two.
Under this control vValter spoke; and he improved upon Richard-
son's original test sentence by saying: "David dug a damned
devilish deep trench." Then he whistled merrily. The control was
irreproachable.
"VValter then said: "Now I will show you one that will sting
you." Whereupon he picked up the small megaphone and said:
"Now blow up your machine." This was done, and Walter pro-
ceeded to talk and whistle through the big megaphone high in the
air.la
This experiment was repeated, and before ·vvalter began to
speak the column of fluid carrying the floats fell. Walter said:
"The Big Chief, the Bugologist, could not hold his own machine."
This was true, it having been Richardson who was unable to main-
tain the pressure. At another time it was Mrs. Richardson who
failed to hold, and again \Valter spotted who had failed.
Twice he repeated the following experiment: He began to talk
with the machine blown up under double control and then instructed
us to acquire single control.2
This was done with complete success.
As a last type of experiment, after the machine was blown up
Walter began to whistle his own tune which contains a lot of notes,
first high and then an octave lower and much prolonged. This he
whistled beautifully, and for so long that our tongues and lips
ached from maintaining the pressure. The door was locked
throughout the seance.
Two evenings later, they did it all again, with a somewhat different
make-up for the group of sitters who had to hold the fort while
\Valter gave the vocal performance. The record (May 23rd, 1925):
la A specific statement of control here would be welcome, but is not given.-
J. M. B.
2 "Double control" means of course that the sitters ,next to Crandon (and at
his rigl1t) and Richal'Clson (and a.t his left) participated in the control of the
Psychic by these two, ren.ching· across the '' suspect's'' lap to place a hand upon
the joined hands of suspect and Psychic. Single control means that Crandon ancl
Richardson were in unverified control of the medium's hands.-J. M. B.
262 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
This evening was to test again Richardson's machine for prov-
ing the independence of W·alter's voice. The six forming the circle
first practiced in the red light to get familiar with the method.2
a
In the dark, "VValter appeared in about two minutes. The tests
of the voice machine were made as follows:
In the dark, with no control, the machine was blown up. W al-
ter ~poke and whistled freely.
With double control, Richardson having the Psychic's two
hands and Mrs. Richardson both of Crandon's, the machine was
blown up. Walter again spoke and whistled freely. This test was
repeated.
There followed a discussion of possible flaws or weaknesses in
the apparatus. Walter himself suggested: "One sitter could pull .
his glass terminal out of his gas pipe, a.nd block the rubber tube
so that he would be free to speak as me. To meet this, blow up
the machine when you are ready; then give one second of red light
to see that each sitter has a tip in his mouth. Also, before and
after a demonstration you should test the tube from each mouth
to the reservoir bottle, to see that they are all unobstructed."
The experiment was then tried as directed. Each sitter was
seen to have a terminal in his mouth; yet Walter spoke and whistled
freely. This was repeated. [The record then describes some vocal
effects, different from those usually got, and ascribed by Walter
to John. Inasmuch as they were not given under the machine con-
trol, they are here omitted.]
With all tubes in the mouths under Walter's instructions, the
markers in the U-tube began to oscillate vertically, and air could
be felt being blown into all the mouths. This could have been done
by Walter through alternate blowing and sucking on the open top
of the U-tube; or by one of the sitters, blowing and sucking through
his tongue-hole while the others held fast. The floats danced up
and down some fifteen inches. [Another brief section of the record
that has nothing to do with voice tests is here omitted.]
Walter then instructed Mrs. Richardson to take Mrs. Litzel-
mann's chair, and had Mrs. Litzelmann stand between the Psychic
and Crandon. Then under instructions the apparatus was blown
up and held by all sitters; and then Mrs. Litzelmann sang, Walter
whistled and John sang, all three ·at once; and once or twice Walter
or John also laughed aloud.
The exact point of the blowing through the tubes, and of Mrs.
Litzelmann's part in the last test of this evening, are not clear, of
2a A very necessary measure-see J onntal, A.S.P.R., Dec., 1925; p. 684.-J'. M. B.
I
./
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE-CONTROL MACHINE 263
course. But one would expect that in pursuing demonstration on a
new apparatus of this so~t to its logical climax, numerous false leads
would be taken and numerous blind alleys entered. The fact that he
does not display superhuman omniscience in travelling in a straight
line to his destination surely cannot be urged against ''T
alter.
The next display of the voice machine came in the presence of the ·
Harvard group, who invaded Lime Street for the explicit purpose;
and of Dean Edwards, who was there through an appointment which
accidentally coincided with that of the young men from Cambridge.
The record indicates that the purpose of the sitting (May 24th) was:
First, to experiment with Richardson's machine for testing
the .independence of "Talter's voice; and second, an attempt to
make a paraffin hand. First, the six sitters in the circle practiced
for twenty minutes, working with Richardson's machine to learn
its technique. w .alter came through in about six minutes, whistling
a beautiful obligato to the new tune "Out of the Dusk to You",
and this continued more or less extensively throughout the sitting.
Walter proceeded at once to experiment with the voice machine.
Hillyer had trouble maintaining pressure; so did the Psychic; and
later, so did Crandon and Hoagland. "Talter jeered at each in
turn, saying that he was far more expert with the machine than
we were. Finally, without control, the machine was blown up; and
"Talter spoke and whistled.
With double control the machine was blown up; and "Talter
spoke and whistled. This experiment was repeated SLlCcessfully,
to a total of four times.
All sitters expressed themselves as entirely satisfied of the inde-
pendence of Walter's voice, in so far as they could judge from
their own experience in trying to "beat" the machine. Consider-
able discussion then followed for fifteen minutes as to the use of
a microphone as another test of the actual point of greatest in-
tensity of the voice in the cabinet. This kind of discussion, taking
interest from the current experiment, seems always to kill Walter's
enthu>:iasm. Further, the three repetitions of the double-control
operation of the voice machine were each staged after a flash of
red light. Of this Walter said: "You'll have to wait a bit each
time, for that red light dampens my ardor." At the end of the
discussion referred to, Walter said: "There is no use in my doing
the paraffin glove tonight although I am ready to do it. There
are so many free hands in the room, it would be silly and would
have no evidential value."
264 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Following this, and while Richardson and others were discussing
and planning improvements alike in the machine and in the technique
of its use, it began to figure as a regular feature of the seances. Thus,
on May 29th:
Actual sitting began after a considerable amount of practice
with the Richardson voice machine. Walter came through in seven
or eight minutes and seemed to be cheerful. He 'had us make
several tests of the voice machine without hand control, and then
formal tests were made and carried out, with 100 per cent success,
five t imes. Each time after the machine was all set in disequilib-
rium, the red light was turned on for two seconds in order to see
that each mouth contained a mouthpiece, and to confirm the· double
control by Richardson and Taylor. Then each .time Walter talked
and whistled, the whistling once including a little obligato to the
music. He sought by humorous remarks to make us lose our pres-
sure; a11d once he succeeded, when he said: "Hold it, you devils,
hold it!"
After the above seance, there was a long hiatus in the experiments
with voice-control. In fact, before these were resumed, Richardson's
interest in the vocal aspects of the mediumship had led to a,nother
excursion into photography. The memorandum of the conference
with Walter on August 1st is meager, but tells the story:
Walter came at once and was told Richardson's desires. He
replied that if we wanted a picture of his [Walter's] voice appa-
ratus, we would have to sit with the same group for three suc-
cessive nights, August 4th, 5th and 6th; but not to have the
photographers present until the last two nights. He said further,
that he does not want us to sit more than three nights a week
hereafter. Walter emphasized his remarks with many loud pound-
ings on the table.
It does not appear from the records that this program was carried
through with complete accuracy. The sittings of the 5th and 6th
· appear; but that of the 4th was replaced, apparently, by a sitting on
the 3rd. At all three of these, the same circle was present; except
that Cotton was absent on the 6th, while Hill and Litzelmann ex-
changed positions in the circle on that date. The photographers were
absent on the 3rd, according to schedule; and on this date the seance
was devoted largely to the routine of telekinesis and identification of
objects. At the end, however;
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE-CONTROL MACHINE 265
"\Valter then proceeded to put the Psychic into trance, saying
that all the work done tonight was only to stall us along and keep
us amused; that as a matter of fact he and his gang were all very
busy preparing for the next two nights.
On these two nights, Conant and Gerke were in attendance and pic-
tures were made. The thoracic or pharyngeal character of the tele-
plasmic masses presented on these evenings; however, was so far from
evident that I deal with the records elsewhere; they will be found as
part of a teleplasmic sequence in Chapter XXIV. And there is nothing
more of the voice machine in the record until the middle of September.
It had been intended to use it on the lOth, and on that date it was
prepared for use; but 'i\Talter said that he could do nothing with it
on account o.f the conditions remaining from the excessive exposure
to white light on August 13th. He represented himself as working
to restore his psychic apparatus to a condition of operativeness ; and
it was ostensibly his absorption in this task that dominated the seance
to the exclusion of all physical effects of any account. On the 11th
(September) he said that the damage had been made good and he
could proceed. The record tells us:
The main work of the evening was the use of Richardson's voice
machine. 1
N alter said: "Now get out your spitting machine.
Everybody get a nipple of the psychic nursing-bottle." The ex-
periment was. now made four times in succession. The first time
was with an ordinary circle and no light. The second time was
with an ordinary circle; but just before the test, the light was ·
turned on momentarily to show a mouthpiece in each mouth. At
the third test Hill acquired control of the Crandon-Psychic link,
and then the light was turned on for an instant. At the fourth,
this was repeated. All four tests were completely successful. At
one time, despite Walter's efforts to break down our gravity, we
held on while he talked and whistled for forty seconds.
The Richardson machine was taken to the Litzelmann residence
in Cambridge for the seance of September 17th, and was there used
~ith the usual brilliant success. The record tells us:
The Richardson voice apparatus was on the table with its six
control tubes. The mouth and pharynx of everybody were ex-
amined before the sitting by Richardson, and each one after this
examination was escorted by Richardson into the circle and his
hands held until the circle was completed. Walter came through
266 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
in about five minutes, and seemed to be very cheerful. He directed
a rearrangement of the circle until it was as above. The voice
machine was then used with this circle in its ordinary status; which
is the equivalent of no control, scientifically speaking. It worked
perfectly, Walter talking and whistling freely. The test followed
a period of ten minutes of trance. The same experiment was re-
peated, and again it worked perfectly.3
Then came the crucial experiment of the evening. All the de-
tails were carefully worked out by 'iValter beforehand, and he gave
the orders. All the mouthpieces except two were clamped and
closed. Of the two remaining open, the Psychic had one in her
mouth, and Richardson had the other in his. At Walter's signal,
Richardson blew through his mouthpiece until the luminous floats
in the U-tube showed about ten inches difference in level. Then
the P sychic gave her two hands to Richardson, and all the other
sitters left the room and closed the door. Richardson then reports
that Walter spoke and whistled freely for twelve seconds. The
whistling could be heard by the other sitters from outside the door.
Then Richardson rapped three times on the floor, as prearranged,
and we all filed back quickly and made up the circle again. Walter
said that this was in order to prevent total loss of his force.
At the end of this experiment, Walter took the Psychic again
into trance and went on talking, saying merrily that he was pretty
well used up and must collect force. Three times, in full red light,
he talked and whistled while the Psychic was plainly seen to be in
deep trance with lips motionless. He said: "John says that I have
changed over from a psychic control into a broadcasting one."
Later, at Lime Street, many raps being heard at 12:20 A.M.
in a brightly lighted bedroom, Crandon and the Psychic sat again.
The Psychic was entranced, and Walter talked until 1 :00 A.M.,
saying that he did this to gather force; and he directed that the
red light be left going.3
a
The procedure of the above sitting is open to criticism, to the ex-
tent that Richardson's control of the Psychic's hands started too lute
to be of rigorous value. He can not testify that while he was blowing
the machine up, she did not use her hands in some trick enabling the
position of disequilibrium of the floats to persist while she used her
mouth for conversational purposes. She might, for instance, have
plugged the open end of the U-tubes. Or, in complete default of any
a A paragraph of the record dealing with subjective experiences of the sitters,
of no importance, is here suppressed in the interests of space.
sa See open reference No. 11, Vol. 2.
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE-CONTROL MACHINE 267
concrete suggestion as to what she may have done with her free hands,
on the hypothesis of validity there was no necessity for them to be
free and they should not have been so. This, and other equally ob-
vious shortcomings of the procedure as the above record reveals it,
were subsequently corrected. The one-man sittings with the voice
machine became a regular though somewhat rare feature. They ulti-
mately reached a point of very rigorous demonstration, and one en-
titling us to attach weight to the fact that the first attempt to use the
voice machine with a single sitter was a complete success.
On September 29th the voice machine was again the central theme
of the seance:
Richardson's voice machine4
was put into action. 1 : It was
worked in the dark without any control. 2: Red light was turned
on just before the experiment to show a tip in everyone's mouth.
Double control was then established of Crandon and the Psychic;
afte1· which the light was put out. A perfect success ensued,
Walter talking and whistling freely for twelve seconds. 3: The
same experiment was performed with CTandon out of the 1
·oom;
again a perfect success was scored. 4 : The same experiment was
again done with Crandon present, and with the ordinary circle,
lacking double control; but as Walter was talking, he touched
Richardson repeatedly on the arm. Walter explained the point
of this: "The Psychic might have done something to the glass tube
with her hand, or she might have touched Richardson with her
hand; but she could not have done both." This comment is in fact
not the whole story; for we have found it impossible, while the
floats are in the unstable position, for one to extract the tube from
one's mouth without losing the pressure.5
We then asked for single sittings,6
but Walter said he would
not do this. There was force enough, hut things were confused
because of last night's sitting.7
"I don't want the Psychic to
sit any more with Foss," he said; "the rest of you may do so, but
it gets things all mixed up for the Kid to sit with him."
Though the record does not show it, Walter probably arranged
to give a one-man demonstration on the following night, September
30th; the record for that evening says: "this was to mark the second
4 Hereafter, following the R.ichardson-Oranclon usage, we shall refer to this as
YOO (voice cut-out).
G See my testimony in this regarcl, in the Jo1Lmal, A.S.P.R, Dec. 1925.-J. M. B.
G Like R.ichardson 's experience of the 27th.-J. M. B.
7 At Concord, with another medium; see Chapter VIII, p. '82.
268 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
experiment with VCO having only one sitter in the room besides the
P sychic." It goes on:
We now proceeded to the experiment of the evening. All the
exits of the bottle but two were closed. The Psychic was given
one of the active tips, and Hill the other.. Hill took the Psychic's
two hands, and the light was turned on. The machine was blown
up to instability, and then we all filed out, leaving Hill and the
Psychic. Hill had requested Walter to speak, using as many j's
and x's as possible. W e closed the door; and shortly heard
Walter's whisper and his whistle. As we filed in the machine was
still in unstable position, and Walter was whistling the wedding
march from Lohengrin. Hill reported that Walter had spoken
as soon as the door was closed, saying : "Jane is an extraordinarily
jazzy jay-bird, I'll be jiggered."
I cannot too strongly emphasize the fool-proof character of the
procedure here followed. The light goes on, showing the floats in their
normal state of equilibrium, and the Psychic's hands in Hill's. \'Vhile
Hill and all the other sitters watch, he blows the machine up; and
after all the others leave the room, so that there is no one in it free
to speak for Walter, Walter speaks and whistles. It is not even
pertinent to talk about cleverly concealed soft spots or valves in the
tubing; if such existed, there would be no way to bring them into
action. Objection to this test is automatically confined to two di-
rections: the adequacy of the glass mouthpiece itself must be attacked,
or Hill must be impeached as a confederate. If the critic choose the
latter course he will find that his list of accomplices must include
Hill, Richardson and myself, at the very least. I take it that if
he is a critic to whose words we need pay any heed, he will then
abandon the idea of confederacy, and center his attack upon the
design of the mouthpiece. Is this really fraud-proof; or might there
not be discovered some extremely ingenious manipulation of lips,
tongue, teeth and cheeks that would beat it?
This claim, of course, involves the attribution to Margery of fairly
superhuman powers ; for it requires that this trick, which has baffled
every other human being7
a who has examined the nozzles, revealed itself
lo her casual inspection of the tips the first time they were put before
her. It requires, also, that a new trick for beating the mouthpieces
7a An exception to this sweeping generalization might be made in behalf of the
~pisode chronicled on pages 275, 35'7.-.T. M. B.
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE-CONTROL MACHINE 269
reveal itself similarly after each of several radical changes in their
design. Incidentally, with the approach to conclusive demonstration
which we now make, we might do well to read formally into the present
record the careful description of the entire apparatus given by Rich-
ardson in the A.S.P.R. Journal for December, 1925; for we have
reached a date at which the VCO machine was in the semi-permanent
condition there displayed. The pictures are reproduced herewith, in
accordance with the general policy of giving in the present volume all
important illustrative material, regardless of whether it has appeared
dsewhere (see p. 260).
A rather well-known adverse critic was among the sitters of Oc-
tober 2nd ; and, "contrary to Crandon's inclinations," Walter in-
structed that the VCO be demonstrated to him. The record goes on;
The mechanism of this was explained to Prince, and then he
distributed the glass tips: one to Saunderson, one each to the
Sturtevants, one to Prince, one to Crandon, and one to the Psy-
chic.8 An experiment was now made in the light; then one was
made in the dark; then two were made in the dark, each preceded
by a brief red-light period to show that each person's tip was in
his mouth. During all these experiments, Prince had the P sychic's
two hands and Mrs. H ack had Crandon's two. Under these con-
ditions Walter whistled and repeated the test sentence of the pre-
ceding night. Prince was told he could come down to experiment
with the machine any time he wants to do so.8
a
On October 6th the VCO again was used:
First the machine was used in the light with all six sitters ;
then in the dark with the six sitters; then in the dark with three
sitters and with double control of Crandon and the P sychic. This
was then repeated with red light immediately preceding the voice,
irt order to show that both Crandon and the Psychic had their tips
in their mouths. Then Walter said the "Jazzy Jane" t est sen-
tence; and for good measure added twenty bars of an obligato to
go with the victrola.
On October ·16th, we are told, "Walter used the VCO with great
brilliancy." On the 19th, I was present for the first time since
s There being but six tips, Hill and Mmes. Uffield and Hack had to be left out
of the distribution. Prince was included, rather than llill, because the demonstra-
tion to him of the difficulty of operating the tip seemec1 more important than that
of the non-confederacy of such a very eminent citizen as Hill.-J. M. B..
sa See the remarks on p. 247; also Chap. XXI. These should be digested before
placing any appraisal upon Pdnce 's participation in this sitting.-J. M. B.
270 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
August-my expedition to Lily Dale in August-September had con-
spired with illness on the Society's staff and in Lime Street to keep
me away. The three sittings of the 19th, 20th and 21st marked the
end of my official examination of the mediumship in behalf of the
Society which had begun in J une.9
And they also marked the climax
of the merging of my program into Richardson's, as described in detail
elsewhere.na Although it has appeared in p art elsewhere/0
I give my
record of the three evenings in full, with the transfer of one paragraph
to another chapter in view of its complete impertinence here. This
record was not dictaphonic, for the reasons explained internally; it
was drawn up in rough form each evening immediately following the
sitting, and the finished draft here reproduced was compiled from these
rough drafts after my return to New York.
Seances of October 19th, 20th and 21st, 1925, at 10 Lime
Street, Boston. Present on each evening and in a circle clock-
wise: Margery, Richardson, H amilton, Hill, Bird, Mrs. Richard-
son, Crandon; except that Mrs. Richardson was absent on the 21st.
Present outside circle and in charge of camera, etc.: Conant and
Gerke. Present outside circle as guest on the 21st: Newman Gray.
In view of the fact that Margery was not well' it was
agreed to substitute some other program for the teleplasmic one
of Bird's more recent sittings. Richardson was approaching a
climax with his VCO machine for the demonstration of independent
voice; descriptions of this machine will appear in an early issue
of the Journal of the A.S.P.R., and such material is accordingly
omitted from this record. As Richardson stated that if he could
get a report by Bird of a one-man sitting with this machine to add
to similar reports by Hill and others he would regard his formal
tests with this machine as completed, Bird agreed to make this the
order of the day. In view of the fact that Bird's whole attention
and all his physical resources will be completely occupied with con-
trol of Margery and operation of the VCO at critical moments the
dictaphone reporting was suspended.
On the first evening Walter came through promptly and after
[an episode described in Volume 210
"r], the action of the seance
was confined entirely to the use of the VCO machine. N o attempt
was made at a one-man sitting, Walter stating that he required
9 Chapters XIII-XVI.
9a See pages 215-6.
10 Jo~mtal, A.S.P.R., Dec. J!! ~!i
10a See open reference No. 31 in Vol. 2.
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE-CONTROL MACHINE 271
considerable practice and also (as was quite true) that Bird and
Margery required practice in the physical operation of the ma-
chine. Only two of the mouthpieces were in use, and these were in
the hands of Bird and Margery, sometimes with and sometimes
without hand control of Margery by Bird. "\iValter gave in all
perhaps a dozen separate episodes with the machine, speaking
freely, and whistling brilliantly, while the float remained steady.
In this connection it must be remarked that Bird has experi-
mented faithfully with this machine and found it quite impossible
to articulate any other consonants than m and n under its use.
He feels 100 per cent positive that any attempt at tricking the
machine would involve its removal from the mouth or its blocking
by other than anatomical means, while in the mouth. Richardson
examined Margery's mouth before and after and made a negative
report; and Bird has been quite unable to remove the mouthpiece
from his mouth without leakage of air and movement of the float.10
a
The second seance (October 20th) was a repetition of the first,
except that the one man experiment by Bird was made. This was
in detail conducted as follows:
Bird blew into his mouthpiece while Margery held hers, to
prove that his tube was not clogged. Reversal of this t est proved
that Margery's tube was not clogged. Bird held Margery's two
hands in his during this test and continuously throughout the ex-
periment thereafter. Margery held her mouthpiece while Bird
blew the float up close to the top of the tube, and then held it
there. In red light which was now given, the other sitters verified
Bird's control of Margery's hands, the proper position of the two
mouthpieces and their two mouths, and the position of the float
at the top of its tube. The red light was then extinguished, and
they filed out of the room as rapidly as possible. The door was
hardly closed behind them when VValter began talking. Bird does
not remember everything he said, but among his remarks were the
test sentence "Jane is an extraordinarily j azzy Jay-bird; I'll be
jiggered." The purpose of this sentence is to incorporate as many
sounds as possible, normal articulation of which involves a wide
opening of the lips. During this same test period Walter also
repeated the expression "phenomenish phenomena," which one of
the sitters had used shortly before. Also he whistled brilliantly
and laughed. Bird permitted this to go on until he felt there was
lOa The record is defective to the extent that it fails to indicate any control over
Marge1·y's mouthpiece before or after the sitting. The several mouthpieces available
we1·e at my disposal and I chose two at random, later giving Margery one of these
and retaining one myself, at ranclom. What tests I made of the clue operativeness
of hers, I do not recall.-J. M. B.
272 THE MARGE RY MEDIUMSHIP
danger of his losing his air-tight grip on the mouthpiece. H e then
signalled for the return of t he other sitters and some, at least, of
them were in the room and had observed the undisturbed position
of the float when Bird's grip relaxed and the float collapsed.
R epeatedly, on this evening, as on the previous one, there were
brilliant demonstrations of t he VCO machine operated by Bird and
Margery in the p resence of the other sitters. Likewise at one
st age W alter signalled for a flashlight photograph to be made.
H e expressed the hope that some of his psychic apparatus would
appear on the negative, but in possible default of this he insisted
that the t est be made with t he machine in full operation. H e made
the point that this would show the float in its high position and
the top of the open tube untampered with.
The sitting of October 21st was delayed for about one hour
and a half while Crandon and Hill conferred with Griscom of the
Boston H erald, with the other sitters, and again with Griscom.
The occasion for all this was a publication in the H erald of the
advance story about the findings of the Code-Hoagland groupY
The acts of Shapley, Boring et al. in signing seance r ecords which
ex·plicitly disclaimed the idea of fraud and lat er signing a very
specific allegation of fraud, agitated Margery more keenly than
any incident since that of the Houdini box. It was a foregone
conclusion that when we did sit we would get nothing but conver-
sation from W alter. It was likewise to be assumed that Walter
would be much calmer and more philosophic about it all than Mar-
gery. Both of these easy predictions were borne out.
For the second of the three dates covei·ed by the above document,
Crandon prepared a record of his own ; and inasmuch as it goes into
more det ail on some phases of t he seance t han mine, I give ·it as well:
Walter came through in about nine minutes and seemed to be
cheerful but not very talkative at first. L ater he warmed up and
kept us full of laughter.
The P sychic was searched and examined by Dr. and Mrs.
Richardson and her hands were either in the possession of Richard-
son or Bird throughout t he tests of the voice machine. The voice
machine was arranged for two sitters. The tips and tubes were
both in possession of Bird, who t ested both before he handed which-
ever one he pleased to the Psychic.
W alter now inst ructed us to t ry the thing out in the dark.
It was done twice successfully. Then he threw the P sychic into
11 Chapter I X.
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE-CONTROL MACHINE 273
a deep snoring trance with respirations resembling the Cheyne-
Stokes effectP This trance lasted for twelve minutes, with Walter
talking freely between snores. The Psychic groaned as with labor
pains and complained in a querulous voice that she did not feel
good. ·walter now said that he was going to try the VCO and
would bring her out of the trance. This he did after she had
been nauseated for two or three minutes with attempts to vomit.
He now proceeded to work the test twice. It was successfuL
During these tests Richardson had the Psychic's left hand and
Bird had her right hand and Crandon's two hands. 'iValter now
said he was going to try an experiment but was not sure that it
would work. He told the boys to get the cameras ready and they
did so. The VCO was blown up and through a mistake in signals
the flashlight went off too soon. Walter forgave it and took about
ten minutes to recover himself. He now said that he wanted Bird
to put his head down near the table, so that his head would ap-
pear in the picture. The VCO was then blown up and a flashlight
was taken. Then 'iValter said "I have tried to show myself in the
picture and it was taken for another very important reason."
Then the voice machine was used with Bird as the sole sitter.
Everyone else went out of the room and we all heard Walter
whistling. A period of red light preceded our departure from
the room, showing Bird holding the Psychic's two hands and them
both with a tip in each mouth. When we came back Walter was
still whistling and the VCO was still blown up.
My successful use of the VCO machine, in solitary sitting with
Margery, was regarded as more or less of a climax preceding the
description of the new device and its operation, in a contribution by
Richardson to the Journal of the A.S.P.R. This appeared in the
Journal for December, 1925, and was supplemented by an article from
my own typewriter. The two stories tell ahou1· all therE' was to tell
at that date regarding the design and the use of the VCO machine,
and they should be read into the present record.
Following the October sittings, the development of the glass cab-
inetl3 took up all the time of the group for several weeks. At first,
with the Psychic in the glass cabinet and the sitters outside it, and
often a closed door between them, there was no scope for use of the
VCO. Presently, however, it was realized that the hand control of
the glass cabinet solved automatically one of the difficulties of the VCO
12 See page 195. 13 .See Chapter XXV.
274 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
tests, and these two pieces of apparatus were then brought together.14
The only modification which this required in the previous procedure
with the VCO was the dropping of the convention that one or more of
'the sitters must have a tube and a mouthpiece; the distance between
the Psychic and the others make this a bit awkward. For two or three
nights, all the superfluous openings into the reservoir bottle were
clamped shut; the Psychic then sat with the machine on a shelf or table
in front of her, the one tube in action and its mouthpiece in her mouth.
As soon as it became clear that this was a permanent change, better
form was achieved by eliminating the reservoir bottle entirely; its sole
function having been to make it possible for a plurality of persons to
work the machine. The Psychic's tube was now connected directly to
the upper end of one arm of the U, and thus a radical simplification of
the apparatus was effected.
The records are not wholly explicit,"so I shall have to make out of
my own general knowledge of the case the statement that after two or
three sittings in which the point remained unsettled, it became the
invariable custom for the Psychic to emerge from trance for the VCO
test and to remain wholly normal for this. Despite her tendency to a
slight claustrophobia, she found it easy enough to habituate herself
to the hand and foot control, so that the maintenance of these bonds
during a considerable period of consciousness irks her neither physi-
cally nor mentally. But the head control is quite another thing, alto-
gether too severe for application to a conscious medium in the absence
of a dominating motive for submission to unnecessary discomfort; so
the custom rapidly crystallized of releasing her head when she emerges
or as she is about to emerge from trance for the VCO test. One of
the sitters then inspects the tip and places it in her mouth. She blows
up the floats to the unstable position and holds them there while all
the sitters withdraw to the doorway of the room, lending certainty to
the negation of an accomplice. The records of Chapters XXV and
XXIX will add details and dates, and will further demonstrate that the
technique described took a little time to settle down into permanency
and constancy.
The VCO continued to be used throughout the year 1926; but so
far as its essential history is concerned, we may finish with it here,
without too much chronological loss. Its next chapter comes with
the standardized seances which began to take form in January, 1926,
H See pages 327- 34, and Chapter XXIX.
DR. RICHARDSON'S VOICE-CONTROL MACHINE 275
and which constitute the theme of Chapters XXIX, XXXIV and
XXXVII in their entirety, as well as of portions of the intervening and
subsequent chapters. We soon arrive in these chapters at a point where
the VCO takes its place beside the scales and the bell-box as a routine
instrument whose use seldom requires more than citation by date
and title.
But on F ebruary 22nd, 1926, as told on page 357, one of the sitters
found that the VCO was not, for him, an absolute gag. He could do
nothing with it if some other person put the mouthpiece in his mouth
for him, in proper central position; the effort then to shift it would
result in loss of air. But if he put it in himself, he could place it in
the extreme corner of his mouth, with the tongue-hole bearing against
the side rather than the tip of his tongue; and he could then whistle
around it very well, and talk around it very poorly, just as he was in
the habit of whistling around his smoking pipe as an amusing trick
for his friends.
In spite of the restrictions governing Sherburne's performance with
the VCO and from which Walter had amply shown himself to be free,
and in spite of Sherburne's belief that his trick was a very speciat one
which few people could duplicate, it was at once realized that the
mouthpiece must be modified to meet this trick. Sherburne pointed out
that his ability to do the trick depended upon throwing the mouthpiece
to the side of his mouth; if a nozzle could be designed that would com-
pel him to hold it centered in his mouth, he would be as helpless as
anybody else. The problem was attacked along these lines; the
cylindrical shank entering the mouth was changed into a broad, flat
shank, of the full width of the glass flange and of the average mouth.
The new mouthpieces had to be specially ordered and could not be
received at once; so pending their delivery, the VCO continued in use
with the old mouthpiece.
During this interim of working with a nozzle that was known not
to be absolutely inhibitive of trickery, the t est of March 12th, 1926,
ought to be mentioned because of the unusually long period, 42 seconds,
during which Walter spoke while the P sychic held the floats in their
unbalanced position. For March 26th the new mouthpiece was avail-
able, completely filling the lip orifice and making lateral displacement
impossible. It was tried out in a very restricted circle and gave
V\T
alter no trouble, so on the 27th it was permanently substituted for
the older mouthpiece. On this date the VCO test was given with com-
276 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
plete success, Overstreet handling the mouthpiece and doing all the
work of examination. A photograph of the new mouthpiece will
appear at an appropriate point in the second volume.
This completes the history of the VCO, so far as its history involves
anything beyond its routine use in the seance room. It became a
regular part of the standardized seance, and will be mentioned freely
as such in the chapters dealing therewith: XXIX, XXXIV, XXXVII,
etc. But it underwent no more changes and was the crux of no more
critical demonstrations. We need therefore say nothing more about
it as a special topic; we may leave it to figure in the seance routine as
it may chance so to figure.
CHAPTER XXI
An Unconverted Skeptic
Seance Record and Comment by Walter Franklin Prince
With Remarks by the Editor
On pages 247 and 269 mention has been made of the presence, at
the seance of October 2nd, 1925, of Dr. Walter Franklin Prince, who
in his capacity of Research Officer to the Boston Society for Psychical
Research, stands as the more or les-
s official sponsor of the viewpoint
that Margery's phenomena are not proved and that they are in fact
to be presumed fraudulent. On both occasions when I have spoken
of Prince's presence in this seance I have indicated more or less
explicitly that he was not convinced by what he saw. The facts of
his presence and of his well-known antagonistic attitude toward the
mediumship, however, seem to make a little more than this in order;
and especially, it seems only due the reader that he be given the oppor-
tunity of judging just how serious are the specific grounds for
Prince's non-acceptance of what he saw on the evening in question.
The notes of the seance which he prepared or dictated on the following
day were intended for his own private use and benefit alone, and were
no more extended than they are since he did not expect to be called
upon for any further public utterances on the case. He has however
been good enough to put them at my disposal for use in the present
volume, subject to the explanation which I have just given in his own
words. They are dated October 3rd, and read as follows :
I received an invitation from Dr. Crandon, through Mrs. Hack
who ·had been present at an earlier sitting because of my request
to Dr. Crandon, to be present at a sitting at 10 Lime Street,
October 2nd. I arrived at 8 o'clock and was ushered in by the
Doctor. Besides Dr. and Mrs. Crandon there were present the
Rev. Dr. Saunderson, Mrs. Hack, Judge Hill, an elderly lady,
Mr. - - and presumably his wife.
There was considerable conversation between me and the Doctor
before the others arrived, and by all in common before the
sitting began.
Margery was very friendly, has intended to visit this office,
wants to tell ni.e a psychical experience of hers, etc. Before, during
277
278 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
and after the sitting Dr. Crandon made many sarcastic and dis-
paraging remarks about Dr. McDougall. Before the sitting I
and others were shown the album of photographs of casts, ecto-
plasm, spirit photographs of Hope and Deane, etc., etc. After
the sitting we were shown the pictures of the ectoplasm m
stereoscopes.
I shall not attempt to give a precisely chronological order of
the events as it was not possible to take any notes whatever. But
the general order, with the principal incidents follows:
I was the controller of Margery's left hand, Dr. Crandon on
her right. Dr. Saunderson to my left, Mrs. Hack to the right
of Dr. Crandon. The others in between. Margery put luminous
bands upon her ankles but remarked that there would be no need
of arm bands in the red light. Nevertheless all the phenomena
except some of the bell-box ringing occurred in darkness but she
said in a loud voice to me that there would be no need of the bands
in the red light. She put on the ankle bands and a band around
the forehead showing luminous spot in center.
First that came was the supposed independent voice, really
whispers, of Walter. He addressed himself to ine and in the effort
to make me hear the whispers approached very closely and I was
quite willing that they should approach more closely than was
absolutely necessary for me to hear. The result was that I am
absolutely sure that her head was but a few inches from mine when
the whispers blew into my face. ·walter said that he was glad
that I was present and we had an exchange of insignificant chatter,
after which no such effort was made to make me hear directly, but
his remarks were interpreted from time to time by Dr. Crandon.
At no time in the evening was there the slightest appearance to
me that the whispers or the whistling came at any point removed
from Margery herself.
The next stage was ·bell ringing, the bell rang several times
in the dark, then I was asked to give directions, and called for
one long ring and two short, and they followed. Then in accord-
ance with directions, after a dark interval, Dr. Saunderson· was
told as soon as the light came on to take up the bell-box and turn
around. He did not perfectly understand the order and executed
it somewhat hesitatingly, but the bell rang and stopped ringing
several times in the circuit. Then two or three times I was asked
to direct what kind of rings should be given, the light was turned
on and the rings followed as directed. I was not asked to take
the box and turn around. I was encouraged at intervals t<? see
that there were no attachments but am not particularly interested
AN UNCONVERTED SKEPTIC 279
in making sure of details at invitation. There certainly were no
tangible attachments. Once when the bell was to ring Margery,
with my hand in hers put it upon the table beside the bell box
remarking that I might have it there if I liked. Dr. Crandon
immediately said something to her in a low voice which I could
not understand but my hand was taken away by hers instead of
remaining according to the terms of her offer.
Then the "doughnut," that is to say the paper disc with a
hole in the center, both periphery and hole about the dimensions
of those of a large doughnut, was brought into play. It was
explained to the company as a device introduced by Mr. Dingwall,
being an object of a nature difficult to levitate because of its
thinness. I do not quite follow the reasoning here, but that was
the statement. Perhaps the meaning was that it would be thought
hard to get hold of. The doughnut is well luminous upon one
side and appears faintly so on the other, but it may be because
of the luminosity showing through. Thereupon in the darkness
the doughnut performed various tricks, shifted about upon the
table, went up into the air, went to a point seemingly between
Margery and Dr. Crandon, etc. Once when it came near me
I seemed to see something protruding through the hole, not slender
but something which fairly well filled it. Then Dr. Crandon, still
in the darkness, asked me to hold out my hand and gave me what
he said was a silver half dollar. This I was requested to put in
the hole of the doughnut as it lay upon the table. Soon a slight
movement of the doughtnut was seen as though the edge of it were
raised and the half dollar extracted from beneath, then the coin
was heard to ring upon the table a foot away. Then Dr. Saunder-
son was asked to extend his palm over the doughnut, the apparent
object being to drop the coin into it. This was done two or three
times and each time the half dollar struck the table. I gained the
impression that it did not drop into the palm but it may have
done so and fallen off. I was not asked to extend my palm in this.
species of experiment.
At Dr. C.'s request I raised a basket about a foot above the
table, and the doughnut was lifted into it.
Another stage was occupied by a megaphone about 2 feet long,
with some kind of a handle upon the side. There were two luminous
rings upon it, one at each end. The megaphone performed all
sorts of antics, being shoved, raised, poked into faces, once falling
upon the floor between the table and Dr. Saunderson and myself
and coming up with considerable difficulty. Once it fell off the
table and landed on the floor back of it and after some little time
280 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
was flipped upon the table, after for some moments I had been
watching what seemed to me evidence of muscular strain on the
part of the medium. Finally the megaphone flew apparently over
the medium's head into the cabinet. So far as I could tell, at the
precise moment the medium's body gave a violent jerk. Dr.
Crandon asked me if I felt her tremble. I did not personally think
the word tremble was the right one but did not say so. Through-
out the performances of the doughnut and the megaphone while
not only I felt the pressure .of Margery's left foot upon mine
but was able frequently to see the luminous band upon the left ankle,
I was at no time able to see the other band. I took special
pains to look down alongside the front edge of the table next to the
medium and it is very difficult to suppose that! her foot could have
been held in such a position during the considerable time that
these acts of the doughnut and megaphone were taking place
and the foot not have been moved so that the band would appear
if it remained upon the ankle.
The final feature was the use of an apparatus devised by Dr.
Richardson, I understood, an explanatory diagram of which is
annexed to this report,1
the same made by Dr. Crandon to be
taken me by Mr. Mansfield. Across the curved glass tube are
two horizontal luminous bands and at the surface of the liquid on
both sides is a floating perpendicular indicator. The liquid is of
course at equilibrium in both branches of the curved tube unless
force is exercised to drive it higher in one branch. The diagram
shows one of the mouthpieces, which is made of glass having two
lateral holes and one terminal hole. From one to six persons may
use the apparatus at a time. Whoever is using it blows, the liquid
rises on one side as shown by the luminous indicator and then if
all using mouthpieces have their lips pressed firmly against the
lateral opening and tongue against the terminal one the indicator
remains stable. But if anyone who is using a mouthpiece uncovers
any one of the openings in it the air escapes and the indicator
sinks. Consequently when the indicator remains stable and the
liquid is higher on one side than the other,, if Walter is able to
talk, it is supposed to be an absolute proof of independent voice.
. It is stated that all sorts of experiments have been tried to see
whether these holes can be kept shut and yet voice be possible, and
that no one has been able to show that this is the case: The two
or three experiments of this sitting when voice was produced the
1 Omitted in this publication in view of its having been covered in Chapter XX
and in the A.S.P.R. JonTnal articles the1·ein cited.-J. M. B.
)
;
I
)
AN UNCONVERTED SKEPTIC 281
indicator did not r emain absolut.ely stable but sank slightly,
though very slightly. I was invited to come over and try to cheat
the apparatus if I could. I stated that I claimed no special
skill in dealing with mechanical apparatus but I might come
over for the amusement of seeing whether I could do it, although
I had no expectation of being able to.
After the sitting was through, as I have stated, I looked over
the set of ectoplasmic photographs in a stereoscope. To all
appearances there were several types. One looked like a bulby
mass the size of a large pear with a kind of a twisted cord perhaps
six inches in length extending from it. This appeared in a number
of the photographs, with the end of the cord protruding from a
nostril, and a sac-like protuberance variously placed. I think that
in all of these there was the appearance as of a thread passing
from the bulbous extremity up toward the ear. This object (mass,
cord and thread) was said to constitute 'iValter's speaking appa-
ratus, and Dr. Crandon said that Walter said if the thread were
broken it might kill the medium. · H e did not say whether this
apparatus was used in all the sittings or only in the trance ones
of Dingwall's series. But as it was alleged that ectoplasm was
produced only in trance, and as it has frequently been alleged
that Walter speaks and whistles independently when she is not in
trance, I hardly see the advantage of having such a vocal app a-
ratus. Another species was like a large egg, so far as I could
judge from the picture possibly 3 inches long and 21j
2 inches wide
in the center (these figures are of course very conjectural), the
egg more or less covered over with strands of a lace-like white
material. The color of the egg portion was considerably darker
than the material which crossed it, making one, in fact, think of
rubber. Another form exceedingly roughly resembled a hand. The
fingers fell apart in awkward fashion, and while I do not mean to
intimate that it was carved out of some anatomical substance,
yet that comparison spontaneously kept coming to my mind. I
mean it only as an attempted item of description. There were
other pictures that represented the ectoplasm as issuing from the
ear, at least the small end was protruding from the ear, and hanging
down in masses or strands hom a few inches to apparently more
than a foot. Others showed the substance or some white substance
covering a portion of the top of the head or even a large part of
the face. The material in some cases looked very different from
that in other cases. In several instances where one extremity of
the substance was protruding from the mouth it was nevertheless
stated by the Doctor it exuded from the ear. He did not explain
282 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
what it was doing in the mouth. Of course the pictures do not
prove that a substance sticking into the ear actually issued
therefrom.
Before I left, Margery said she hoped I would be able to see
the ectoplasm and I said I should be very happy to do so.
After the seance I was asked to see what I could do with the
voice apparatus. I succeeded in pronouncing two or three words,
the float showing only a momentary jerk-not greater so far as
I could judge, than.the j erk which preceded the voice when Margery
had her mouth applied. I was then asked to utter a prescribed
jaw-breaking sentence, and did not attempt it, knowing it would
be hopeless, at least without considerable practice.
[Signed] 'iVALTER FRANKLIN PRINCE.
Before the above document came into my hands, I had made inquiry
of Prince about the October 2nd seance, and about the general
character and extent of the negative reports from various sitters which
I had been told were in his possession. With reference to my general
query whether he had made on October 2nd any specific adverse
observations, the record above reproduced was forwarded, with the
follm\ling additional statement:
I [Prince speaking, of course] send you a copy of my sit-
ting of October 2nd, 1925, written the following day. The chief
marks which made it not evidential but rather the reverse were
the following:
(1) The approximate certainty that the luminous band on
the ankle next to Dr. Crandon was removed and concealed. For
fully half an hour I vainly tried to get a glimpse of it, though
there was no difficulty in locating the other. Of course if off, the
band was off for a purpose, which purpose would presumably be
the production of " phenomena " by the free right foot.
(2) The medium made an e::i:cuse for leaving off the luminous
wristbands-an excuse contradicted by the sequel. The reason
given not being correct, I am forced to seek the real reason, and
none seems so intelligible as that of leaving the right hand free
to help the foot where necessary. Since it has been proved and
published without r emonstrance that Dr. Crandon is capable of
releasing the medium's hand without due noticc,2
this reason fits
in with the general scheme.
(3) There was to me not the slightest indication that the
2 The reference is to M. M., pp. 157- 159, 256.-W. F . P.
)
AN UNCONVERTED SKEPTIC 283
whispers and whistling were " independent," whether when the
breath came into my face or at any other time.
(4) I noted very clearly that the more strenuous of the " tele-
kinetic " movements were accompanied by those movements of the
medium's body which generally indicate muscular effort. I was
very confident, for example, that her violent start when the mega..:
phone flew up did not follow but was contemporaneous with that
" phenomenon."
(5) When Dr. Crandon said something to the medium which
made her remove my hand in hers from beside the bellbox where
she had said it might rest, this to me indicated that he thought
that it would be dangerous to have my hand there. I cannot
believe that even had I touched the " ectoplasm" which was sturdy
enough to throw a megaphone, it would have injured that sub-
stance, and suspect that the peril was a different one.
(6) Nothing apart from the mechanical contrivances presented
difficulties for a free right foot with the occasional aid of a free
right hand.
(7) Mechanical contrivances lcept in control of the medium
can never be free from doubt. Hundreds of pieces of apparatus
have been invented by magicians, which have defied the inspection
of committees. The voice machine, persistently pressed upon
attention when there are so much simpler and surer means of
showing whether or not sounds proceed from the throat, raises
rather than settles suspicion.
While for the better part I present Prince's strictures without
comment, one or two remarks from me will be in order. The demonstra-
tion of the photographic exhibits to him, along with the other material
on file in the Lime Street book room, might doubtless seem to him or to
anyone not acquainted with Lime Street routine as a special gesture
directed at him. In point of fact, every new sitter or every old sitter
who comes back after a long hiatus receives precisely this immersion
in the documents of the case; it is not an attempt at conversion or con-
viction but merely a desire on Crandon's part to present the fullest
possible information as to the current status of the case. It is usually
done before the seance but when the time factor requires its complete or
partial postponement until afterwards this occurs as on the present
occasion. I have no doubt that Prince understood all this thoroughly
but I make the explanation in the interests of insuring against mis-
understanding by any reader.
284 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Prince's last remark about " simpler and surer means " of control
would doubtless suggest to most readers a personal control of one sort
or another; and if this were what he had in mind, he could easily be
met with the statement that the history of the case shm~s many occa-
sions on which the voice has occurred under such control. But of course,
the constitutional skeptic always wants, on each occasion, a different
t ype of control from that actually used. If you hold the medium's
hands he want& to know why you did not tie them and if you tie them
he asks why you did not hold them; and so through the entire gamut
of control procedures. The mechanical voice-control represents a
studied attempt to get away from personal control, on the ground
that personal control has been so seriously obj ected to. I would
rejoice exceedingly to find a skeptic who is willing, after having eaten
hi s cake, to reconcile himself to the fact that he no longer has it to eat.
The above paragraph, however, while entirely applicable to the
skeptic whose only thought is to object to the control that he happens
to find in use, does not constitute an entirely valid rejoind~r to Prince's
criticism; for the better control which he had in mind was not a per-
sonal one, but a different type of mechanical one. The stethoscope is
a familiar enough instrument, and many others before and after Prince
have wondered why it was not used in this or in other vocal medium-
ships. It could be applied directly t.o throat or upper chest and while
it would not prevent fraud in the same sense as does the VCO (assuming
this to be a valid control), it would give interesting returns as to the
active or passive state of the medium's entire vocal and respiratory
apparatus during the voice phenomena. In elaboration on this point,
Prince writes: "the constitutional scientific observer desires to apply
any and all feasible t ests in this, as he is expected to do in all other,
branches of inquiry; and· particularly that test which seems simplest
and most effective; rather than to be limited to a mode dictated to
l1im."
The obvious reply to this is that the VCO is designed to prevent
fraud and that it seems an entirely effective means of achieving this
prevention. Any specific criticism of the VCO as ineffective has always
been and will always be met by its redesign. But when the skeptic
merely says without giving any bill of particulars that he doesn't like
it and would rather use his hand, or his eyes, or his stethoscope, or his
some other idea, Crandon invariably react s with a metaphorical brist-
ling and a demand to know precisely what is the objection to the VCO.
AN UNCONVERTED SKEPTIC 285
In view of its availability for t est and experiment and of the complete-
ness with which it has been described and of the accuracy of these
descriptions, he feels that it may b e rej ect ed only through spec ific
criticism; and he does not grant that its permanent presence in his
house constitutes valid ground for attack up on its use.
:Further, against the specific suggestion that the st ethoscope be
employed in its stead he points out that the use of this instrument
would bring us back again to a discussion of the validity of the hand
control of the Psychic. In my presence, fraudulent Iilediums on whom
the st ethoscope was being used have freed a hand from control and
removed the stethoscope from immediate contact with their throat s or
chests, as the case were, thereby creating a condition where the " spirit
voice " was unaccompanied by any stethoscopic r eport of vibrations
in the medium's vocal apparatus. The VCO on the other hand canno-t
be thus manipulated, as has been emphasized on pp. 682-3 of my article
in the A. S. P . R. Journal for D ecember, 1925.
Moreover, the VCO gives a positive verdict while the stethoscope
does not. By this I mean that if the float in the VCO tube drops habit-
ually while Walter is speaking, we must conclude that the Psychic's
lYJouth is being used normally and we have no conceivable alternative to
this conclusion. But the stethoscopic control is so much less direct as
to afford the following possibility of alibi :
If the stethoscope is used and if it reports a vibration of any sort in
the chest or throat of the medium, the notion of the essential ambiguity
of psychical phenomena which I have satirized on page 142 may be
called in, much more plausibly than in the cases there outlined. It may
be alleged that obviously there is some ·sort. of psychical or pseudo-
material connection between the mediwn's normal ensemble of Lrachio-
thoracic function s and apparatus, and the psychical machinery for
the independent voice; so that production of the latter is accompanied
by a species of reflex action in the former. As evidence that this par-
ticular thesis is not wholly and inherently absurd, one might instance
the behavior of F r au Rasmussen's r espiration 3
during the production
of phenomena which on no conceivable theory of fraud could have
any dependence upon her breathing. I do not at all insist upon th'ls
interpretation of a ·superficially un!"avorable stethoscopic record but
I do insist that I know no way of conclusively silencing the person who
Joes advance it. Neither do I insist that all the points here adduced
s Journal, A.S.P.R., May, 1928, pp. 278 ff.
286 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
are conclusive reasons for sticking to the VCO apparatus and refusing
to use the stethoscope but I do insist that they are Crandon's reasons,
and that as such they must have due respj:!ct. If not conclusive, they
are at least plausible and constitute a bar against offhand damnation
of the vocal phenomena on the mere ground that a stethoscopic con-
trol ought to be used and is not.
So much for Prince's one sitting of the period since October, 1924.
In reply to my query as to the nature and status of the collection of
adverse reports4
which he was alleged to have in his custody he wrote
as follows :
Reply to Que1·y 12. It is correct that reports of sittings in the
Margery case have been handed me by several persons, none of
whom have become known in connection with the case. The reports
by two of these persons are long and detailed, and they support
and agree with the reports of the Harvard Group and the Rhines5
in a general way so far as the phenomena were alike. There was
no glass cabinet and no balances as in the Rhine sitting, and various
apparatus and consequent reactions present in the Harvard sit-
tings were absent here. One of the persons rendering a long and
detailed report was certainly quite independent of the Harvard
Group, as his sitting came first. The other author of long and
detailed reports wrote them long before the Harvard report was
made public, and I doubt if he knew anything about what it was
to be- though not sure of this.
All possibility of misunderstanding Prince's position with reference
to the case having been eliminated by the preceding materiaV and all
claim having been forestalled that due attention has not been paid to
the evidential values of his observation of the case, we may proceed
with the chronological developments of the summer of 1925, which
have rather lagged behind in the interests of the topical discussion
of the present and the immediately preceding chapters.
4 See pages 479ff.
5 See Chapters IX, XLV.
G Dr. Crandon will comment upon Dr. Prince 's text above, in one of the appendices
appearing as part of Vol. 2. See open reference No. 17, in that volume.-J. M. B.
CHAPTER XXII
Identifications of Personal Objects
By the Editor
From a very early date, it has been VValter•s habit to use in tele-
kinesis small objects contributed from the pockets of a sitter, or even
to help himself to such objects.1
Occasionally he would go so far
as to tell the contents of wallets, the denominations of bills, etc., etc.
But he never pursued the matter systematically; and, indeed, we must
deal at first with several apparently isolated and unsystematized
instances of the thing which we shall ultimately systematize.
The first reference will be to the seance of April 2, 1925/ in the
Richardson residence, in which Walter correctly identified an object
not known to be present by any other sitter than Mrs. Richardson;
and followed the identification by further more or less evidential state-
ments about this object. On April 11th, he made a deliberately staged
return to this sort of thing; the record tells us :
He now invited each sitter in turn to place quietly upon the
table some small object for him to identify. In this way, under
double control, he examined and correctly named a, brooch, a clin-
ical thermometer,3
a notebook,4
a spectacle case, and a pair of scis-
sors. The only thing that puzzled him was a latchkey; he could
only call this a "drip," which was partly true, as it hung from
a ring or tag.
This first performance of what has now become a specialty distin-
guishing the mediumship came after there had been demonstration of
the teleplasmic terminal, in silhouette against luminous objects; and
the pt·ima facie aspect of the identifications was that they were done
by this organ, through a tactile process. The same may be said of a
Tepetition given on April 12th (see page 60):
All the rest of the phenomena of the evening were done under
constant double control: Goodall having the Psychic's two hands,
1 See M. M., Chap. XXVII, ete.; aJso present volume, pp. 56-62, and Chap. XVII.
2 See p. 71. .
3 "Who's siek ' " he said to this.
4 ''Thought you'd fool me into thinking there was money in it ~ '' was WaJter 's
query here.
287
288 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Miss Pierce both Crandon's hands and his head. Walter had
Goodall, Miss Pierce and Brown each put a personal article on the
table. He recognized Goodall's as a watch, Miss Pierce's as a face-
powder box, Brown's as a thermometer in a case.
Whether by the Harvard enterprise of May-June or by some
less easily identifiable distraction, Walter's attention was turned away
from the matter of identifications after these three preliminary per-
formances; and he returned to the subject only on July 26, 1926, in
the Cabin seance of which the complete record appears on page 000.
On this occasion, the picture was rather that he gave us the identifi-
cations because he hadn't the physical force at command to give us
anything better. And, as I state on page 000, while my control of
the Psychic was irreproachable and while confederacy was made ridicu-
lous alike by the range of sitters it would have needed and by the
manner in which the identifying statements flowed from Walter, there
was ample evidence that the teleplasmic tactile process was at work.
The objects placed on the table were handled by something.
The identifications (which of course we must carefully distinguish
from mere telekinesis of objects contributed by sitters) became now a
regular part of the mediumship. They were given on August 3d and
8th, from the records of which dates I quote, and on the 14th, the record
for which appears in full elsewhere.5
[Aug. 3d.] Then followed a period of identification of objects
put on the table by the sitters, under strict double control of the
Psychic and Crandon, together with luminous control of the hands.
Every recognition by Walter was correct.
For Cotton: "A big jack-knife." Correct, except that
Cotton does not call it big. But Walter says it is bigger than
most pen-knives.
For Cotton again : " Time to take the collection."6
This
statement was accompanied by many raps with the object, which
proved to be a coin.
For Hill:. "A bracelet, tattoo marks, leather, keys." Cor-
rect as named. Here, however, was an extraordinary fact.
Hill had on sleeves reaching quite to his wrists ; but he does
wear, out of sight on his right arm, a locked bracelet, and there
~See p. 233.
6 This statement, as the other ones similarly given, was made by Walter in
idoentifying the object.-J. M. B..
IDENTIFICATIONS OF PERSONAL OBJECTS 289
are tattoo marks on this arm. Litzelmann and Hill alone knew
of the bracelet; Hill himself alone knew of the tattooing.
.For Litzelmann: "It is warm, leather. a tobacco pouch.".
Correct.
For Richardson: "Paper; letter; one-half-no, one-quar-
ter- inch long." Correct, a sheet of Braille. Its presence in
the room known only to Richardson.
For Mrs. Richardson. "A side-comb." Correct.
[Aug. 8th.] Walter next turned his attention to the matter
of identification of strange objects in the dark.
For Davis: "A nice jack-knife." Correct.
For Hill: "Take back your paper money." Correct; a
dollar bill.
For Mrs. Hill: "A hair pin; a wire one." Correct.
From the 14th, I need not repeat here the passages of the dicta-
phonic record that have to do with identifications. I do need, how-
ever, to put emphasis upon Richardson's contribution here---the deck
of cards. It led to discussion with Walter, culminating in his promise
to identify individual cards out of a pack. The process of selecting
a card from the pack in the darkness of the seance, which is essential
in the prevention of fraud by substitution or confederacy, also brings
it about that when it is finally chosen and presented to Walter, no
sitter knows its identity. In this fact, as well as in the immediate
measures taken to eliminate fraud and in the character of the frauds
that must be eliminated, the card t est is so essentially divergent from
the identification of personal objects that it may well be set aside for
discussion in a separate chapter.7
The wooden letters8
invented by
Richardson for cognition tests may likewise be set apart, for precisely
the same reasons; and we then deal here only with the more personal
type of identification, revolving about objects contributed by sitters.
These, too, offer scope for statement by " Talter of the contributor's
identity or of the psychometric background of the object contributed.
This he does not always undertake, nor always achieve with the same
degree of success ; but as we shall see, he often makes a good score, and
where one or two such incidents might be explained away as the
product of chance coincidence, I think most readers will find that we
have too many of them for such treatment. Likewise, he now and then
1 Chap. XXIII.
a Chap. XXVIII.
290 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
finds himself able to make some statement about an article which seems
clearly beyond the knowledge of any sitter; or to deal in such fashion
with the identification as to th row some light upon the problems sur-
rounding his own personality. ' iVe have the following items:
[Aug. 27, 1925.] Of the first thing put on the table by Rich-
a rdson 'iValter said: "I don't care for that; it's something like
raised flow ers. T ake it away." It was a Braille map of South
America. Of the second article V\T
alter said : " Those letters are
too small, and besides, I have no skill at reading them. I don't like
it; take it away." It was a book with raised letters [ordinary
ones, not Braille] for the blind. Then Hill put on the table an
object for identification and ·walter almost at once declared it
to be a pencil sharpener. This was correct. Then Litzelmann put
something on the table, and Walter commented: " Open your
mouth, Chief. Are you r eady? It's g ood." R ichardson opened
his mouth and "\iValter put a lump of sugar in it.
[Aug. 29th.] De Wyckoff then said he was going to put a bill
on the table in the dark, and asked Walter td name the denomina-
t:on. He said he had many bills in his pockets, but did not know
the denominations. Walter immediately named the bill as a ten.
De VVyckofr then put out another bill, and 'iValter immediately
named it as a ten also, and added: " The first is a yellowback;
this one is a grccnbaclc" T his was all found to be correct.
[Aug. 30th.] Under conditions of double control, Walter told
De Wyckoff the denominations of bills which he placed on the table.
Dudley then p ut an object on the table, and VValter identified it as
a "pocket book with an unusual snap to it." Zeliqzon then put
an obje:::t on the table which VValter identified first as a quarter,
and then added: " No, that's a penny; a Canadian cent." All
these identifications were correct.
[Oct. 4th. ] Walter then proceeded to identify objects from
the pockets of the sitters. In each instance the success was 100
per cent, although for Sturtevant he said: " This thing is a case
or holder; probably a thermometer." In fact it was a pencil such
as none of us had ever seen, resembling closely a [clinicalJ ther-
mometer case. Asked to tell how much he used the sense organs
of the Psychic, ' iValter replied : "You may blindfold her and stuff
her ears and I can work just as well."
[Oct. 16th.] Walter identified objects belonging to the sitters,
when these were placed upon the table.
IDENTIFICATIONS OF PERSONAL OBJECTS 291
The concentration upon the glass cabinet0
now interfered with
further prosecution of the identification specialty, and this is not again
met for nearly three months. When it is resumed, in February, it is
usually carried through under such improved conditions of control
that, in the interests both of classification and of chronology, we may
set apart another chapter for the continuation of the story.1
° For the
present, we may make the comment that these obviously tactile identi-
fications depend with extreme obviousness upon the validity of the
hand-control; and we may point out that Walter never attempted to
make good on his suggestion of the 4th October, just above. All
further comment may be deferred to the point where we again take up
this thread.
9 See Chapter XXV.
10 See Chap. XXVIII; and following this, Chaps. XXXVIII, XXXIX.
CHAPTER XXIII
Identifications of Playing Cards
By the Editor
In the preceding chapter I have referred in passing to the presenta-
tion to Walter, on August 14th, 1925, of a deck of cards as object,
in· toto, for identification. Some sitter, probably Richardson, was
moved to ask him whether he could identify individual cards from the
deck; he indicated a desire to try it, some other time. The occasion
came on the very next night, August 15th. As usual, I had stayed over,
after my serious sittings, for the informal week-end gathering. The
record tells the story :
It was apparent that Richardson's more or less jocose request
of the preceding night that Walter read playing cards in the dark
had rather piqued Walter; for he now called for a pack of cards.
A pack was handed to Brown, and on request Brown put on top
of the bell-box any card which he happened to select in the dark.
Walter announced the value and suit of the card, and it was handed
to some particular sitter to hold. E ach time, Bird made a record
of the card as named by Walter, and of the sitter to whom it had
been passed. At the end of the sitting Bird read his list, and each
sitter produced the card corresponding to the list; in every in-
stance W alter was correct. After the sitting Bird tried in vain
to identify cards by means of a luminous head-band such as the
Psychic wears.
The above record is faulty, in one respect. Describing this seance
in the Journal of the A.S.P.R.,1
Crandon says : "in this way Walter
named eight cards, making no errors in the denominations of pip cards,
two errors as between kings and j acks which he complained presented
a tough problem, and one error as between spades and clubs." This
latter version was drawn from my own memorandum record; and aside
from my general confidence in the correctness of this, I have an actual
memory of the facts in the present instance. Walter did make the
errors which my memorandum describes, and which are so strongly
suggestive of a pseudo-visual process. As the playing-card perform-
1 June, 1926; p. 326.
2-92
IDENTIFICATIONS OF PLAYING CARDS 293
ance began to be standardized into a regular feature of Margery's
seance room, Walter rather got into the habit of rejecting face cards,
because of the difficulties which they present to him. Such rejected
cards he ordinarily throws on the floor, asking for another in place
of the discarded one; and this discrimination between pip cards and
face cards he always makes accurately.
The present test is of interest first because of the conspicuous suc-
cess which Walter scored in dealing with a new problem; and second
because of the clean-cut fashion in which it points the way to a more
determinative procedure. The most serious deficiency in the staging
on the 15th lay, of course, in the history of the deck of cards employed.
I knew nothing definite about this deck; so far as my best knowledge
and belief were concerned, it was a deck that had been in the house
for an indefinite time, and that had been taken upstairs by Richard-
son or Brown or Crandon so that we might be prepared for this test
if Walter offered it. This will immediately suggest, to any person
of conjuring experience or indeed to any moderately ingenious lay-
men, a procedure which would have been applicable on the present
occasion, and which in the most general terms would be describable as
follows:
The performer abstracts x cards from the deck, secretes these on
his person, and memorizes their value and order. The deck itself,
lacking these x cards, is given to the sitter who is to officiate as Brown
did on the occasion just described. As he, in the dark, places random
cards from the deck, one at a time, on the table, the perfor~er must
defeat the hand control sufficiently to recover his concealed cards,
one by one, and substitute them for those thus handed out. A varia-
tion would consist in using an accomplice, who would hold the stacked
cards and effect the substitution, while the performer remained under
rigid control. At the end, after all the "identified " cards have been
restored to the deck, the performer still has the cards that have been
handed out during the sitting. The deck is therefore still short, and
its examination must be prevented until after an opportunity has been
created for the return of the missing pasteboards. Any number of
cards up to x may be identified; and the perfon;ner may give the com-
pletely successful reading which the method makes possible, or he may
aim at a proper psychic atmosphere by introducing minor errors into
some of his identifications.
Just as obvious as the trick is the prevention. Let a comparatively
strange sitter bring into the seance room a new, sealed deck, with the
294 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
revenue stamp intact. Let him break this seal only in the darkness
of the seance room ; let him then shuffie the cards and pass them out,
one at a time, for identification. Let him retain possession of the
stock until after the light is given at the end of the seance; let him
then determine how many cards and what cards are missing. Let the
several sitters who have custody of the identified cards then return
them to him; and let him at this time verify not only that these are
the cards needed to restore the deck to completeness, but that t hey
are, in pattern, etc., the identical cards from this deck. If this be
done, all substitution tricks are ruled out to the point where it becomes
idiocy to talk about them. And if we employ enough different strange
sitters as masters of ceremonies in successive sittings, any talk of
systematic confederacy between these sitters and the Psychic, under
which the shuffiing is only apparent and pre-arranged cards can be
handed out by one who knows the way in which a new deck of cards is
assembled for packing, becomes equally idiotic. As I emphasize in
another place, not all the Lime Street regular and casual sitters may
be regarded as confederates.
This, then, leaves open only one line of attack upon the validity of
the identifications. Is it not possible for the Psychic to sense the
denomination and suit of the cards by other than psychic means?
Four possibilities must be considered here : normal or hyperesthetic
tactile impressions gathered after hand control has been defeated;
normal visual impressions in the absence of what to a normal sitter
would he total darkness; and hyperesthetic visual impressions got in
what the normal sitter would find to be a complete absence of light.
The most immediate deficiency of the present sitting comes in the
third of these categories. The record indicates that the Psychic was
wearing the usual luminous c;ontrols. It also indicates that after the
sitting, I failed in the attempt t o read cards by the light from such
controls, worn as she had been wearing them. Subsequent experiment
indicated that the reason for the failure lay in the adoption of a
slightly wrong technique; it is a perfectly simple matter for one wear-
ing a luminous head-band to get enough illumination from this on a
pip card for accurat~ reading of the denomination and for approxi-
mately accurate reading of the suit. One cannot, so far as my experi-
ments indicate, do much more than guess between kings, queens and
jacks. This finding becomes the more serious when we realize that
it checks up exactly with the errors that Walter made on his first
performance. It becomes imperative to do away with the luminous
IDENTIFICATIONS OF PLAYING CARDS 295
control entirely when giving identifications of playing cards; and we
shall see that this became the Lime Street custom.
When this has been done, however, the theory remains open that
instead of using clandestinely a source of light known to be present,
the operator has fallen back upon clandestine pTesence and ~£se of a
light-source not known by the sitters to be there. This theory is a more
complicated one, to the extent that the performer would have to defeat
the hand control in order to manipulate her flashlight, small luminous
plaque, or whatever other source of light she be pictured as employing;
while to use the head-band she would have to do nothing more than
bend her head over close to the card as it lay on the table. Provided
~>he could produce and use effectively a light of the sort visualized by
this theory, however, such procedure would be better conjuring practice
than use of the head-band.
Whether she could do so would constitute a delicate question.
Tricks of dark-room card-reading more or less similar in their super-
ficial aspects to the phenomena with which we here deal are done
commercially. I have not seen these under conditions which were suf-
ficiently clean-cut to rule out one type of fraud and define in an
observer's mind another type as the one under use. I am told however
that these tricks aTe done in the presence of precautions which are
· completely adequate for the exclusion of confederacy and substitution;
and if this be true, the use of a small secret light of some sort seems the
only way out. But it is most unusual to hear the psychical skeptic
proclaiming his ability to exclude substitution or confederacy or any
other particular fraud; he is more in the habit of basing his negations
upon his alleged inability to detect or exclude trickery.
Even if we reject the claim that the trick is customarily and suc-
cessfully done in this way, however, we must be willing to consider this
way of doing it as a possible hypothesis of fraud in the present con-
nection. So considering it on its merits and inquiring what these are,
we may observe first of all that it brings up the question of hand
control in acute form. Certainly if the Psychic ~s to use a light for
illumination of a playing card and if she is to prevent the other sitters
from perceiving this, she must have both hands free to bring card and
light together somewhere in the folds of her garments. But her sitters
are much closer to her and much more nearly on all sides of her than
would be the case with any commercial performer; so we may
strongly suspect that her consistent use of this trick would lead rather
consistently to observation of some sort suggesting to the sitters that
~96 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
an unauthorized light was present. We shall note one or two occasions
when observations which are interpretable in this sense were made; but
I think the evidence as a whole is distinctly against the theory. I make
no further or more definite comment until we shall have come to ·a point
where the identifications are being done under a mechanical control
which shall throw new security over the status of the Psychic's hands
and feet during the seances.
'Vith reference to the theory of tactile hyperesthesia, I made in-
quiry of the United States Playing Card Corporation. I asked them,
first, whether the glazed surface was applied to the face of the card
before or after the printing of the face. If before, so that the black
and red ink overlies the varnish, one might suppose that the edges of
the pips would be sufficiently marked to appeal to the hyperesthetic
sense of touch. If after, as one would infer to be the case, there could
be no rough or abrupt edges to the pips ; the only pertinent question
"ivould then be whether the ink of the pips was thick e~ough to create
a raised area the additional thickness of which might be felt hyperes-
thetically. The varnish would not fall quite so thickly over the in-
finitesimally thicker zone of the pip as it would over the infinitesimally
thinner blank areas, so that the additional thickness of the printed
parts of the card would be masked; nevertheless, one needs expert
testimony as to its tactile detectability. Under date of May 19th, ·
1927, I have the following statement from the New York office of the
playing card manufacturers:
Replying to yours of the 17th inst., would say that the color
face printing of our playing cards is done before the varnish flow
is applied. This color coating has no appreciable thickness that
might be apparent to the eye or touch.
In our experience we have never known of anyone's being able
to read suits or denominations of our cards by the sense of touch,
with the single exception of our Braille card intended for the use
of the blind. In fact we do not consider such a thing possible.
The matter of visual hyperesthesia I suppose we shall always have
with us; it is most improbable that any room possessing windows and
doors is absolutely dark in terms of ordinary visible light, and it is
quite certain that no room above-ground within miles of a center of
civilization is free from wave-lengths of the ultra-violet persuasion
which might conceivably arouse a visual response in a given subject's
optic nerves. For present purposes, I fear we shall have to take a
{
IDENTIFICATIONS OF PLAYING CARDS 297
categorical stand here, laying down this postulate: If, in a room
where normal vision gives no slightest silhouetting of bulky objects,
Margery is able hyperesthetically to read the denominations of a play-
ing card, this faculty is by definition a psychic one. There must be
some point where normally hyperesthetic sensibility stops, and super-
normality begins.
Following the performances of the 15th and 16th (p. 81) Crandon
consulted with me on the possibilities of fraud left open; and the next
reading of cards was carried out in such fashion as to eliminate these.
The date was August 18th and the record reads as follows:
He next proceeded to his presentation of the card reading.
Cotton had in his possession a new pack of cards 'vith the Govern-
ment revenue seal intact. This pack was now opened by Cotton
in the dark, and the whole pack put in his chair under his leg.
Cotton then put one card on the table, picked at random by him
from the pack; and in about three minutes Walter announced the
value and suit. The card was now taken by Gilmore, and kept by
him; and Gerke kept the "log" showing in each instance the name
of the holder of the card and the identity of the card as announced
by VValter.2
Walter repeated the reading until each sitter had a
card in his possession. The card reading was done with the
Psychic in trance. There was no light of any kind visible to any
sitter in the room. When the light was put on at 10:15 P. M.
it. was found that every reading by Walter was correct. Gilmore
now collected the identified cards and the remainder of the pack;
and he showed that the pack was lacking precisely the cards identi-
fied, and that with these cards each suit was complete. At the
end of the sitting the Psychic complained of ache in her eyes.
Walter says that he does not "look" at the cards in the way we
mean when we use the word, but that he sees them through his eye
plus some use made of the Psychic's visual apparatus.
Through what I am entirely convinced is oversight, the above record
fails to clarify the facts in one respect which might be regarded as
important. It will be realized that there was no prior examination
of the deck ; Cotton brought it in with the seal intact, and on breaking
the seal assumed that the contents were in good order. One would,
I think, infer from the record, if one made any inference at all, 'that
Cotton himself had supplied the deck. In point of fact it had been
purchased by Crandon, and by him turned over to Cotton immediately
2 It is easy enough to manage thi s, in the dark.-J. M. B.
298 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
before the seance. It would then have been possible for Crandon to
have removed the seal, abstracted several cards, and replaced the
seal; after which the trick could have been done as outlined above-
provided we assume another error in the record or the procedure,
which would have permitted the cards in the Psychic's possession at
the end to be "switched" again for those in Cotton's possession, before
restoration to the deck. The point is one that is met in numerous
later seances; and I think it equally significant to say that my infor-
mation about the history of the deck comes from the Richardson record
of August 27th; a document placed in my hands by Crandon himself.
If the failure of his own record to cover the ground were other than
accident, it is evident that he would not thus circulate another record
that so completely covers it.
Walter's next return to the matter of card identification was on
August 27th, and there were a lot of complications and points of in-
terest, so the Richardsons went to the trouble of drawing up a full
statement. This I give, rather than Crandon's less complete record:
At a Margery sitting at 10 Lime Street, Boston, Thursday.
evening, August 27th, 1925, an experiment was performed of suffi-
cient importance .to justify independent and isolated record.
As is well known, the phenomena occuring at these sittings have
been almost exclusively of the physical type. The one here recorded
belongs to that immediate domain, partly objective and partly
subjective. The genesis of the idea embodied in this experiment
was in the production some weeks since by Richardson of a pack-
age to be identified by Walter in the dark. At that time Walter
first said that the package was a book; then corrected himself,
saying that it was a box containing something.
"Cards," said Richardson, "Can you name them Walter?"
"Have a heart, Chief," said Walter.
The article was in fact a box containing a pack of playing
cards. Later a pack of cards belonging to Crandon was used for
experimentation in the dark,3
the correct identification of individual
cards being made in several instances. Once subsequently a new
deck, purchased by Crandon, and brought to the sitting with seal
intact, was used with equal success.4
From that time on this form
of experimentation had not been tried at these sittings, and nothing
more had been said about such experimentation.
s August 15th; see above, p. 292.
4 August 18th; p. 297. See, also the comment immediately above, on the history
of the cards.
/
IDENTIFICATION S OF PLAYI NG CARDS 299
On Friday, August 21st, Richardson noticed in a shop window,
a pack of Jumbo playing cards ; and he bought them in the original
sealed container. H e did not mention this to any member of the
group, not even to his own wife. Twice he brought this pack of
·cards to the sittings, done up in another package, the shape and
size of which would afford no clues to what was therein. H e had
been accustomed to place this package under his chair when he
took his place in the circle, in case an opportunity might come up
t o use its contents.
At the sitting here recorded, W alter suddenly made a facetious
remark to the effect that it was high time that the eggs upon which
Richardson had been setting should be hatched, and that he, 'iValter,
was afraid that in the recent heat wave they would spoil. H e sug-
gested that they be brought out for experiment. Whereupon
Richardson brought out the large p ackage with some difficulty,
got it open in the dark, and took out what was subsequently found
to be the deck of large cards in a container. While in the dark
he broke the seal and the inside paper wrapping. At random he
took one of the large cards and laid it upon the t able. H e did
not say what it was that was laid there, but remarked to 'iValter
that he did not know whether it was right side up or not, to which
Walter replied that that made no difference to him. H e identified
this card shortly as an unusually large playing card and as the
deuce of clubs. Litzelmann was directed to reach forward and
get the card and keep control of it until the end of the sessio.n.
Another was brought forward and identified as the j ack of spades.
This was given into the custody of Hill. The next card brought
out entailed some delay. Suddenly W alter said to Richardson:
"You old sinner, you thought you would fool me, did you?
This is covered with printing, with the word GUARANTEED at
the top".
That ca,rd was likewise given to one of the group to keep in his
possession. The process of identification went on until each per-
son had a card in his control.
Through the entire sitting there was no light whatever. There
were no luminous bands. There was no red light, and of course
no white light. At the end of the session the red light was turned
on, enabling the cards to be identified. Every card was found to
have been correctly named, including the " guarantee" card. Each
identification had been written down as it occurred by Conant, who
sat outside the circle. Immediately upon the checking up of the
identification, Hill took the entire deck with the container out of
the seance room, where it was carefully examined by all present.
300 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The deck was what is known as "Jumbo Bicycle" cards, manu-
factured by the United States Playing Card Company. The backs
were red and of the type known as "rider" backs. The dimension
of each card was 7 x 41;2 inches. It comprised fifty-four cards:
four complete sets of thirteen, a J O~{er, and the "guarantee"· card,
which is an advertising card. The "guarantee" card had printing
on it, and the lettering of the word GUARANTEED was in Old
English, and stood alone at the head of the printing. The letters
were 5/16 inch in height, and the length of the word about 2~
inches. All of the cards which ha.d been identified, and in addition
virtually the entire fifty-four cards, were carefully examined and
were ascertained to be free from any mark, embossing, scratches,
or pinpricks, which would serve in any way as a guide to the sense
of touch in determining the identity of the card.
Although this experiment is of the type that can fairly be said
not to require rigid physical control, it may be noted that the
following precautions were taken:
l. The room itself was entered before the sitting by several
of the circle and no accomplice was found.
2. During this sitting the door to the room was locked on the
inside in the usual way, after which entrance cannot be had from
the outside because it is impossible to unlock the door from the out-
side as the keyhole does not go through.
3. Complete control of Margery's hands was maintained by
Richardson and Crandon during the entire experiment.4
a
4. The hands of every sitter were controlled in each case by
his neighbor's continuously.
5. Conant, who sat outside the circle, stayed continually in a
position directly back of Hill, with pencil and paper. He was
talking at intervals with Hill and the other members of the circle
in such a way as to render it practically impossible for him to
leave his seat and in any way contribute to the work of identification
of the cards.
6. The light which was used for the first time at the close of
the sitting was a new colored medium, a blend of red and orange,
which excludes white rays entirely. This was still further dimmed
by the intervention of red tissue paper. When this colored light
fell upon the red cards which were identified, such as ten of dia-
monds, it was found that it virtually annihilated the red printing
upon the cards, so that it was extremely difficult to identify with
4a There was no ''double control'' and no check of any sort upon Crandon's
control of the Psychic; so the conditions need not be regarded as adequate unless
<me deliberately chooses so to regard them.-J. M. B.
IDENTIFICATIONS OF PLAYING CARDS 301
the normal sight the red cards until they were taken out into pure
white light.
As a departure from the usual line of phenomena hitherto ex-
hibited, and as apparently justifying a working hypothesis that
there may be a super-normal power of visualization, or some sense
with which we are not perfectly familiar, this incident is made a
subject of record.
"\Ve, whose names are hereto affixed, hereby affirm that we were
each personally present at this experiment, and that the description
of the same here given is correct in every detail.
(Signed) MARK W. RicHARDSON, M.D.
JOSEPHINE L. RICHARDSON.
The card-identification was again a feature of the seance of
August 29th. The record tells us :
The whole pack was shuffled and held by Zeliqzon. He then put
one card in the dark on the table, and in about two minutes Walter
declared that it was the ten of clubs. Zeliqzon then tore off a
part of this card and gave one piece into the custody of a sitter.
This experiment was repeated three times; and at the end of the
sitting it was found that every identification was correct.
This record, of course, is deficient in that it makes no showing as
to the previous history-good or bad, as the case may have been-
of the cards; and none in the matter of their examination prior to
the performance. The tearing of the identified card was doubtless
done on the spur of the moment by Zeliqzon, under the impression that
he was guarding against substitution. But the opening for substitu-
tion in connection with these identifications, as we have seen, would
come earlier in the game; this marking of the cards after identification
means nothing. It is interesting also to note, in this and other rec-
ords, that the identification is seldom, if ever, an instantaneous proc-
ess or even a rapid one. Always or almost always it is a matter, as
here, of considerable time and ostensibly of considerable effort on
Walter's part. The deficiencies of the preceding record are very
largely made good in those of September 1st and 3rd, which I now
quote to the extent of a paragraph each:
Litzelmann brought to the circle a newly bought deck of cards,
showed the seal to all the sitters, and then in the dark opened the
pack and put one card from it at random on the table. After
about two minutes Walter named the card and it was given into
302 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the custody of one of the sitters. This was repeated for six cards,
and a record kept by Litzelmann of each alleged identification
and the person in whose custody the card was placed. At the
end of the sitting it was found that every identification was correct.
Coughlin" had brought with him a new pack of cards, with the
government seal intact. He now6
broke the seal and put one card
at random on the table. In about three minutes Walter identified
it. It was put in the custody of [J. H.] Brown and the record of
identification made by Dudley. This experiment was repeated
until each sitter had a card in his care. At the end of the
sitting, every card proved to have been identified correctly. Dud-
ley now put on the table an advertising page torn out of the back
of a magazine in the da rk. It had lain on the table for about
two minutes when Walter declared the page to read: "WORLD-
VVIDE TOURS." This was put in some sitter's care, and another
sheet, again selected by chance, put out. This was repeated four
times. At the end of the sitting it was discovered that in every
instance 'iiValter had read correctly the important title words on
the printed page. 'iiValter seemed to enjoy this experiment, and
kept saying: "Ain't we got fun?"
This variation of the identification experiment owes its invention
to Dudley's ingenuity in following out the suggestion embodied in
'Walter's performance on August 27th, in reading the word "GUARAN-
TEED." It will be appreciated that it presents the same oppor-
tunities for substitution as the card version; but that, when this pos-
sibility is excluded, the random character of the selection is equal to
that with the cards; the possible answers comprise almost an infinite
range instead of one of merely fifty-two elements; and the proof of
validity is of precisely the same order.
For October 4th and 6th the card test was made, and on both dates
the record is rather above the mean in adequacy. Again I give a
-paragraph to each date:
On request Walter then proceeded to try out the cognition of
cards. Sturtevant had brought in a fresh pack ; he broke the
government seal in the dark at the sitting and put one card on the
table. After about five minutes vValter named it and it was given
into the custody of a sitter. This was repeated with four cards,
G A total stranger, which Litzelmann of course is not.-J. M . B.
o In darkness, as a preceding passage of the 1·ecord makes clear; but a specific
statement of the total absence of all light is lacking.- J. M. B.
IDENTIF ICATIONS OF PLAYING CARDS 303
each being given to a different sitter after being named. The sixth
card occupied W alter longer, and Crandon at one time thought
he saw a psychic light in Margery's lap. Walter then said: "This
is no playing card. It is a blank card with two words on it." At
the end of the sitting each identification was correct; and the last
card was as described, the two words being "EXTRA JOKER."
Walter then proceeded to read five cards picked separately
from a fresh pack brought by Litzelmann and opened in the dark
by Dennett. This was entirely successful. w·alter now instructed
Dennett to bring next time an envelope filled by another person
with large-type advertisements from the backs of magazines; and
Walter would read them in the dark.
The earlier of these last two records carries what some critics will
./ regard as strong suggestion that there was cland estine use of a light
by Margery. One who so holds will meet very easily the objection
that the observation in question was made by Crand on himself : the
light was used bunglingly, this critic will say; Crandon sensed the bung-
ling, feared that some other sitter would see the light, and brought it
up himself as the best means of allaying suspicion. In point of fact
as I have said sever al pages back, if this fraud were being used it
would seem that it ought to be observed more often and by more of
the sitters than appears to have been the case ; and of course, the
whole question of hand-control is involved, in a way that becomes
critical when we find comparable phenomena occurring under condi-
tions which ba r the raising of this question.
During the concentration on the glass cabinet and the develop-
ment of t echniques for sitting therein,7
the card identifications were
temporarily dropped. VVhen attention was r estored to identification
acts, after the new year, certain objections to the use of playing cards
were given new consideration. These carry with them a certain in-
evitable atmosphere of parlor magic, making it more difficult than it
:should be to take seriously any act in which they are used. They are
so small that control against substitution must always be a matter
d some concern; and their standardized, machine-made charact er adds
to this uncertainty. In connection with any attempt at .such controi,
· the full sealed deck must be used ; making it an automatic certainty
that the elements offer ed for identification involve mer ely the choice
between the fifty-two known cards of the deck. There can be nothing
7 See Chapters XXV, XXVI.
304 THE MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
spontaneous and no surprise. The disadvantages of this against a
situation where the sitters may offer the most bizarre elements for
identification, are evident. It is equally clear that the wooden letters 8
introduced by Richardson, while of limited range, meet all objections;
for on any given evening, an arbitrary choice may be made by some
sitter, which of the letters to bring into the room. Their only draw-.
Lack is their obvious and serious amenability to normal processes of
touch. If the use of the Psychic's hands can be prevented with any
degree of certainty, the letters are better than the cards; if it cannot,
advertising pages .cut at random from magazines are better than the
cards. So when identification acts were resumed in the next period of
mediumship it was with these objects and with articles personally con-
tributed by the sitters, rather than with playing cards; the history of
the latter ends here.
a See Chapter XXVIII.
CHAPTER XXIV
Teleplasmics in the Informal Sitting·s
From the Seance Records, with Comment by the Editor
To this date, it will be realized, the purely teleplasmic side of th~
mediumship has been reserved for serious sittings with serious investi-
gators. The more ordinary groups have had more or less experience, .
it is true, with luminous silhouetting of the teleplasmic hand; but this
has always been incidental to the use of the hand in telekinesis. Red-
light display of masses of teleplasm, with or without an anatomical
context, has not been given save to Dingwall, to Richardson and to me.
Starting late in July, 1925, after my seances of the 23rd-25th had
brought this sort of thing to the highest point it had reached since
Dingwall's departure, it began to be offered more generally. The first
indication of the new order, in fact, occurred on the 22nd, the night
before my arrival. The record here t ells us that, while 'Valter was
manipulating the Code bell-box with its luminous plunger/ this plunger
fell out of its seat in the box:
and Davis held it in his hand while Walter took it from him. At
this moment the Psychic groaned as though hurt; and later Davis
told us that he had squeezed the terminal gently as it touched his
hand, showing in some way that this is connected with the central
nervous system of the Psychic.
The conclusion here drawn would seem to be partially justified, since
under any theory of fraud, if Davis did not recognize what he squeezed
as a human hand or foot, the Psychic would probably have no means
of knowing that it had been squeezed. Criticism would have to hang
upon the plea that the coincidence between a squeezing or other con-
t act of the teleplasm by human hands and the groans of the Psychic
should be observed many times, and that negative observations should
be made going to show that when it is not thus squeezed she does not
groan while when she does groan there is this or some other ascribable
reason, before any conclusion so definite as the one of the above record
could j ustifiedly be drawn.
Display of the teleplasm in ordinary seances continued after my
July series of sittings. Its next presentation, on the 28th, was to a
1 See pp. 118, 133, 3;39, note l a and accompanying text.
305
306 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
group which, as the record emphasizes, was one of quite unusual char-
acter. The presence of De Wyckoff, Mrs. Pierson, the Bonbrights,
Dudley, Westwood and Dunipace on one evening did indeed create an
atmosphere of experience and sympathy which is seldom present in
l\1argery's somewhat heterogeneous collections of sitters. The record
.enumerates the sitters, and then tells us:
Walter came through almost at once, and gave a brief lecture
for the benefit of those who were new sitters. He explained the
size and relation of the astral body to the physical, and urged all
the sitters in the light of the physical phenomena not to forget the
significance of it all and its spiritual side. The triviality of the
event imports nothing; its meaning we should have constantly be-
fore us. He finished by saying that he would show them various
physical phenomena in red light and in darkness, and would then
show in part the mechanisms involved. The group of sitters was
a particularly interested and earnest one, and seemed to furnish
just the right atmosphere for the production of happy results.
Thoroughly typical displays of bell-box ringing and of telekinesis
of the various seance paraphernalia were then given; after which:
Under direction, the circJe and those outside it gathered closer
to the Psychic. Trance came on ; and 'Valter gave us five periods
of five seconds each of exposure of great masses of white teleplasm,
connected by a fine cord to the right ear of the Psychic. It was
seen first on the right shoulder, then down the front of the Psychic
to her lap; and finally .it was spread out like seaweed over the
westerly end of the table-top. It then disappeared, leaving no
trace. The sitting ended at 10 :35; and the Psychic was then con-
ducted, with hand control, into a lighted room by two woman sitters
and there searched thoroughly with no results.
Following this display, arrangements were at once put into effect
for photographing anything of the sort which 'Valter might again
offer. This promptness bore fruit on the very next evening; and inas-
much as the sitting was given over wholly to the teleplasmic exhibit,
we may present the record here in full. The date is July 29th.
Although the new visitors were having their first experience at
a sitting, they have followed this case for months as printed and
reported and were, therefore, more like old sitters.
Walter came through almost at once and immediately put the
Psychic into trance and within five minutes we had instructions to
P'LATE 21. THE PRESENCE OF DE \VYCKOFF AT 'rfiE PSYCHIC's LlcFT, AND 'l'HE APPEARANCE OF THE LUMINOUS CLOTHESPIN ABOVE
'!'HE CABINET (SEE PAGE 165 ) IDENTIFY 'rl-IIS AS ONE OF THl" PHOTOGRAPHS TAKEN ON J ULY 2B'rH, 1925. ALTHOUGH BADLY
OUT OF FOCUS, IT AND 'l'HE FOLLOWING VIEW ARE REPRODUCED . TO INDICATE 'ri-IE GENERAL CHARAC'rER OF 'l'HE TELEPLASM ON 'rHIS
DATE.
PLATE 22. TIIE Pl-IO'rOGRAPH OF PLA'rE 21 I S> PRESUMABLY THE ~'I RS'l' ONE 'fAKEN ON J ULY 28TH, AND THIS WILL THEN BE ONE OF
'l'HE TWO LATER ONES. T HE THIRD IS SI.MILAR '1'0 'fl-IlS ONE' IN ALL ESSEN'l'IAL FEATURES, AND BECAUSE OF 'l'HE BAD FOCUSSING
MAY THEREFORE BE OMITTED. IT SHOWS THE PSYCHIC ' S HEAD FORWARD, WITH THE TELEPLASMIC STREAM CASCADING ACROSS THE
TABLE.
;
J
PLA1'E 23. 'l'HESE 'l'IVO H EWS WEHI' EVIDEN'l'LY 'l'AKEN SIMULTANEOUSLY Fl10\l DU'-
Ji'EREN'.l' QlJAR'l.'ERS OF 'l'J·lE ROOM. T HGY ARE PE'UI APS I.DEN'l'lCJIL W J'l' J[ Tlll, VIEW
OF PLA'J'I': 22, 011 P ER HAFS l'ROM 'l'HE SJ\ANCE 01' AUGUS'l' 5'I'U OR •6'l'H ; JN SPJ'J'E OF
'l'HE I NABILI'l'Y '1'0 DA'l'E 'l'HE:If , '!'HEY ARE I NCLUDED BECAUSE 01' '!.
'HEIR EXCJ, LLEN'l'
DETAIL.
PLATE 24. TEN'rATIVELY IDEN'l'IFIED BY DR. CRANDON AS FROM AUGUS'l' 5 OR 6, 1925, THIS VIEW IS SHOWN BECAUSE OF l'l'S DIS·
TINC'l'IVE FEATURES. .I'l' SEE~IS '1'0 PRESENT A 'l'ELEPLASMIC ORGANIZA'l'lON SIMILAR '1'0 'rHA'l' OF CHAP'rER XV, BU'l' IN A
S'l'RUC'l'URAL FORM MORE LIKE 'l'HOSE OF CHAP'l'ER XVI.
'
PLA'J'E 25. 'l'ELEPLASM OF 'l'HIS CHARAC'l'ER, Pm:SENTED BY vVAI,'l'ER AS H AVI NG SOlliE CONNEC'J'ION . WI'l'H HIS Al'PARA'J'US 0~'
SPEECH, MARKED 'l'HE DINGWALL SEANCES 01' E,\RLY 1925 AND SOME OF 'l'HE IKFOIUfAL SI'l"l'INGS OF LA'J'Elt MONTHS. THE
PGESE)ICE m' 'l'ITE LUMINOUS CLO'l'IIESPIN (S l"J" PAGE 165) SUGGES'l'S 'l'HA'l' 'l'l-IIS VIEW I S OF ONE OF THE LA'l'ER. OCCURRENCES.
'-
PLATE 26. T HE SAME EXPOSURE AS '!'HAT OF PLATE 25, BU'.r FROM A DIFFEREN'.r ANG LE
AND AT A CLOSER RANGE.
PLATE 27. THE UPPER VIEW IS PROBABLY FROM ONE OF 'l'HE LATER DINGWALL SEANCES.
THE LOWER ONE APPEARS '1'0 BE A CLOSER AND Bl':'l"l'ER VIEW TAKEN A'l' '1'1-
m SAME
'l'IME AS PLATE 21. THEY ARE SHOWN '1'0GE'l'I-IER '1'0 MAKE CLEAR 'l'HE CON'.l'RAS'l'
BE'1'WEEN THE WI-II'1'E TELEPLASM WI'1'I-I DARK CORE AND WI'rl-
IOU'1' CORE.
PLATE 28. VIEW SIMILAR TO THAT OF PLA1'E 25, BUT NO'!' SDWLTANEOUS WITH TIL'Ic'l' ONE. AT THE PSYCIIIC'S RIGI-I'l' ARE SEEN
DR. CRANDON, MRS. RICHARDSON AND DR. RICI:URDSON; THE SIT'l'ER AT HER LEt"r IS UNRECOGNIZABLE; 'l'HE LUMINOUS CLO'l'HES-
PIN SUGGESTS A DATE IN J ULY, 1925 OR LATERj BUT NO POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION BY DATE CAN BE MADE.
TELE PLASMICS I N THE I NFORMAL SITTINGS 307
give bright red light for five seconds. Then we beheld again the
white t eleplasm coming from the right ear and spreading down
the right side of the neck. F rom that time on we had t en or twelve
exposures to it; at times covering the face, at times spread out
down as far as the groin, again hanging in strips across the face,
again gathered in a mass on right shoulder. At one time her head
was thrown forward on the table and the teleplasm could be seen
stretched out like a beautiful white seaweed all over the table.
W hen her head was down thus, her face was towards the east and
VValter's voice giving instructions could be heard distinctly coming
out as from the back of her head. ';yalter said later that he
wondered if anyone noticed that . W e were given opportunity to
t ake three flashlight photographs and each time three cameras
were set: one with fused quartz lens, the other two stereoscopic;
one on the east and one on the west. L ate in the sitting the hand
of each of t he sitter s was allowed to be put on the t able and it
was touched by the cool clammy teleplasmic mass.
This was quite the most wonderful opportunity we have had
of viewing the head teleplasm. The subst ance resembles grossly
many of the pictures of E va C. in Schrenck-Notzing's book, but
·the texture varies at almost every view we have of it, like lace,
like soap flakes, like dough, like noodles, like seaweed, like vege-
table ivory flowers.
The sitting closed at 10:30 P .M. and the P sychic gradually
woke up in increasing red light.
The procedure of arranging with W alter beforehand when the tele-
plasmic "show" was to be given, and having the photographic con-
tingent on hand for the occasion, contin~ ed to prevail; so the next
teleplasmic session, on August 5th, was as carefully staged as the
preceding one. The record tells us :
The P sychic was searched by M rs. Richardson before and after
the sitting, with negative results.
VValter came through in about three minutes and seemed to be
cheerful. H e said the P sychic's nerves had been a bit jangled,
which fact did not contribute toward big results. Nevertheless,
in about ten minutes trance came on, Walter continuing to talk
with us for purposes of " stalling."1
a H e gave Cotton a lot of
word-pictures of his [Walter's] present surroundings; occupations,
duties, etc. H e said he was composing a new poem called "The
W eavers." It begins : "Oh W eavers, whose intricate design." H e
1 a Lime Street slang for clem·ing the psychic decks for action.- J. M. B.
308 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
said it would be prose poetry. H e said that last night he and his
gang, one the chief mate and the other the engineer, sat around
after we had left,. swinging their legs and laughing themselves to
death. He would not tell us what they had been laughing at .
There were others in the gang that we did not know. H e said he
hoped we would stick to this effort to photograph the P sychic's
voice apparatus2
until we got it right ; it was worth doing.a
H e then proceeded to let us have four views, of five seconds
each, of a mass of white teleplasm on the right shoulder, connected
with the right car. Gerke thought he could see a structure similar
to several superposed vertebrae. Then a flashlight photograph
was taken (three cameras) . After that the Psychic's head went
on the table, facing cast; and ':Valter's voice ca:me from the back
of her head. Then in red light we saw a structure six inches high
as if made of white wax. To some it seemed as though there were
something like a mouth on top thereof.
As indicated by the record for August lst/ the above sitting and
that of the following evening were a deliberately organized attack upon
a particularly teleplasmic problem; and a part of the argument was
the use of substantially the same circle throughout. The record for
the second number in the series (August 6th) is substantially parallel
with that for the first:
At the early part of the sitting Walter had very little to say
because he was busy preparing the physical phenomena. H e seemed
to be full of cheerfulness and self-confidence. At about 9 :15 P.M.
he gave us our first look in red light and after that, in all, gave us
about twelve views of the teleplasmic structure. His plan is, by
consecutive sittings with the same group, to show us all the stages
in development of the completely independent t alking mechanism.
First we saw a large mass, perhaps seven by four by three
inches wide, of white teleplasm on the right shoulder and chest,
apparently _connecting with the right ear. Then it was seen still
there, but in addition there was apparently a separate mass on
top of the P sychic's head. Then the lower mass was seen alone
next, but it had grown and seemed to be somewhat rounded. A
photograph was then taken. After the photograph the mass be-
:! This was the theme of the present series of seances; see reference to August
1st, below.- J. M. B.
s This pa ragraph is included, not merely i11 order to give the full recorcl, but
because it is so thoroughly typical of Walter's lighter vein, as regulal"ly displayed
during the warming-up portions of the seances.-J. M. B.
4 Seep. 264. ·
TELEPLASMICS I N THE I NFORMAL SITTINGS 309
came radiant for about three minutes, showing that it absorbed
light. Then the P sychic's head was thrown on the t able and the
mass was seen spread in front of her face and toward the east.
It was rounded, like a white balloon or thin skull with a drapery
of white vegetable ivory structures over it. A flashlight was taken.
Then the P sychic sat up again and t he mass was seen much bigger,
perhaps six inches in diameter, on her breast bone. Both when it
was on the t able and again when the Psychic was erect , definite
long breathing could be heard coming from t he mass. The breath-
ing was a deep er r espiration than the P sychic's snor e which could
be const antly heard; the t wo were not synchronous, and occasion-
ally they overlapped. R ichardson and Cr andon successively were
allowed to feel of the mass as it lay on the chest , and, as each of
them felt, it seemed as though there were some soft vibratory ob-
j ect s more or less like lips under a soft rubbery mass. These
lip-like structures kept r egul arly beating against the exploring
hand. Richardson was t hen all owed t o feel of the Psychic's mouth,
which was six inches above the mass just described. Another flash-
light was t aken.
Walter gave instructions t o the same g roup t o meet on August
12, 13 and 14 and to ask Bird for these nights. He then launched
forth on a royal entertainment in the subj ective way, started by
certain questions. Mrs. Richardson and Hill will each send in a
report of this p art of the sitting.4
a
In accordance with vValter 's instructions of the preceding r ecord,
the t eleplasmic side now was suspended until my next visit; although
something of exception t o this st at ement might be made in behalf of
the sitting of the 9th, at which the familiar silhouetting of the hand-
like t erminal was given wit h unusual freedom ; the r ecord tells us :
' iValter then p roduced in about fourt een minutes a
complete visible right hand which could be seen over the luminous
doughnut and finally over the coordinat e board. First he made us
put the handker chief over the board because it was so bright.4
"
then he showed the complet e hand, six by four inches, and then
crumpled the handker chief and lifted it. Mr s. Parker then sug-
gest ed that he spread the handker chief out over the coordinat e
board, which he did with g reat precision, p ulling and patting it
just as one would the counterpane of a bed.
·Ja And which \rill presumably not come within the sco·pe of the present com-
pilation.-J. l\'L B .
11> See final paragm ph, p. 213; and otl1 cr pages there cited.
310 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
My full dictaphonic notes of Chapter XVI will chronicle the action,
teleplasmic and otherwise, of the sittings of the 12th, 13th and 14th.
They will, I think, support the statement that the second of these
seances furnished the peak, to date, of the teleplasmic side of the
mediumship. They will also inform the reader that, following exposure
to four fl ashlights on this date, Walter on the 14th represented his
teleplasmic structures as pretty thoroughly disrupted; and that it
appeared to be a matter of doubt just how soon he could have them in
order again. This theme ran consistently through the ensuing sittings.
Thus, on the 17th, "Walter came through in about fifteen minutes and
said that his force was low and directed us to leave the red light on
and go downstairs for half an hour while he gathered new force. We
did this, and 'iValter came at once, apparently with good force."4
b
Again on the 18th, "Walter came in about ten minutes rather faintly
and said that he had not yet fully recovered from the effects of the
white light, but that if we would be patient he would get his teleplasm
rebuilt in due time." On the 19th he gave a very definite picture of
being engaged in the reconstruction of his structures; and I judge
that the long hiatus from this date to the 27th was dictated by him
on these grounds. As late as September lOth and 11th, he advanced
the white-light exposure of August 13th as reason for his inability to
go through with a scheduled demonstration of the vocal side of the
mediumship. And it was not until October 25th that there were signs
of a return to the teleplasmic displays. Even then, this return was
only a partial success :
A new record was on the victrola, and vValter came through in
good spirits and said he had a lot of power. H e talked for a
brief time, then proceeded to physical manifestations.
H e called for the luminous coordinate board,5
and exhibited
over it his hand, first a left and later a right; under strict condi-
tions of double control of Crandon and the Psychic.6
H e lifted the
hand up, laid it on the table as on a piano, and then directed each
sitter in order to put his hand palm down on the luminous co-
4b It is perhaps not entirely clear that the whole group went downstairs, leaving
the seance room empty; retuming later to resume the seance.- J. M. B.
5 See page 89.
6 The reader must be cautioned, here and in many other similar passages, not to
read into the text of the record any implication of the existence of tactual foot·
eontrol. Foot control throughout this ]Jeriod was practically never by other means
than the luminous bands; ancl this should always be bome in mind where there
~eems the slightest possibility that a free foot could have produced the phenomena
recordecl.-J. M. B.
I
j
TELEPLASMICS IN THE INFORMAL SITTINGS 311
ordinate-board; whereupon he touched and caressed each of these
hands. The feel was of intense and la,stilng cold. The substance
of the hand was rubber-like, but it was full of sinewy strength.
He caressed the heads of several, and was preparing to exhibit the
hand in the red light; when he suddenly broke in: "Leave the dim
light on and go downstairs quickly. Something unexpected has
happened."
The seance was not resumed; and there was no further sitting in
Lime Street until November 7th, the Psychic being in Buffalo and
Niagara Falls for most of the interval. The records do not indicate
that there was ever an opportunity to get Walter's further testimony
as to just what had broken up the present seance. And the next tele-
plasmic display came after such a long interval, and with so much
intervening history, that we shall have nothing further on this aspect
of the mediumship until we come to Chapters XLI and XLII.
CHAPTER XXV
The Glass Cabinet and Wired Control
By the Editor, with Citation of the Records
T hroughout the summer of 1925 there was much discussion by the
Crandons and their friends as to what lessons and benefits might be
derived from the Code-Hoagland episode. This discussion naturally
took two directions : on the one hand it revolved about the seance-room
philosophy, and on the other it dealt wit h specific procedures which
might be profitably inaugurated. On both these heads, the experience
with the young men from H anard was turned to ultimat e good ends.
T he philosophy of the sit uation created by the Code-Hoagland pro-
cedure and th e~r published report was sufficient ly well covered in an
a rticle which I contributed to the A.S.P .R . Journal for J uly, 1926 ;
and inasmuch as it is a matter of a fairly brief extract from this article
rather than the complet e t ext, I depart from the usual procedure of
this volume and give in full the extract in question:
In the published history of the case, control of Margery's extrem-
ities has always been personal-that is, by the good old-fashioned
procedure of holding or maintaining contact with them. An avenue
of escape from this procedure, often explored in this as in other
cases, lies in the search for a phenomenon that requires no control
at all. 'iValter has had his shot at sealed containers, endless cords,
and the like. H e has equally had his shot at working in a con-
tinuous and sufficient light. In neither direction has he clone any-
thing that encourages the hope of ultimate finality through such
means.1
Let us then consider the deficiencies of personaF control,
and just what we might evolve t o evade these.
The major defi ciency lies in the fact that proof of validity de-
pends upon our willingness t o accept the controller's words for fact s
of paramount import. The difficulties go deeper than at first blush
appears. It is all very well to say that one who investigat es
seriously must select as colleagues those in whose honesty and
ability he has confidence. But no such necessity rules in any other
1 Not so true at the date of publication of the present volume as it was when
written.- J. M,. B.
2 'rhe term covers, of course, the use of the controller's feet an d head, indeed
of any par t of his anatomy that can be brought into play; not merely his hands.
312·
THE GLASS CABINET AND WIRED CONTROL 313
field of science. The physicist, the astronomer, the head of a group
of workers in any other field, is never in a position where he must
.accept, without possibility of appeal or verification or correction,
the critical contributions of his colleagues or his assistants toward
his final result. If we define psychical procedure so that this
necessity arises, we violate scientific convention and repel many
workers whose interest we might otherwise enlist.
For scientific work of all sorts revolves about probabilities.
Every observation or inference that gains acceptance, by the in-
dividual worker or by science at large, wins credit because the
probability of its accuracy comes to appear great er than the
probability of its error. But psychical resear ch deals with ques-
tions of probability whose criticality is matched in no other field.
The metapsychist must consider the probability that there exists
.a fundamental property or faculty of space and of the human
organism which science has not yet recognized; and at the same
time he must deal with the p robability that any particular person
r eporting his control is one hundred per cent accurate and one
hundred per cent honest. Both these probabilities defy precise
numerical determination ; they involve the human equation; the
€motions and prejudices must enter into any attempt to evaluate
them; the procedures necessary to establish them as having been
r ealized must be subject to violent controversy.
If Crandon is in contr ol, and if he renders a report implying
the validity of the phenomena, we expect that a certain proportion
of the critics in all intellectual honest y will find it more probable
that he is mistaken or even lying, than that this defiance of com-
mon experience can be. If control is t aken from him and given
some other person of greater detachment, the probability of er-
roneous reporting should take a smaller value in any fair judg-
ment; but will it take a value small enough to overcome the prob-
a bility that common experience ·is final ? With some critics we
know that it will, or at least that it may. ' iVith others, hard-won
experience t eaches us that it will not.
vVe must reconcile ourselves to the existence of a large class of
people to whom life-time philosophies are so dear that no matter
whom we might put in control-the President, the King, the Pope
himself, the objector's own wife or mother even- it will seem more
probable that this person is mist aken or even lying, than that ordi-
nary experience can be transcended as it is in the seance room.
What bett er evidence of error or prevarication could one ask than
willingness to t estify to something that "in the nature of things"
could not have occurred? I condemn such a critic only when he is
314 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
not candid enough to see and admit his bias ; or when he expresses
a p1·iori satisfaction with my control, only to turn the other face
and charge me with fraud when something happens which he had
taken for granted would not happen. That is neither wise nor fair,
and it should be avoided. But with the conscientious objector
who honestly confesses that he regards new human testimony as
more fallible than generalizations from old testimony I have all
patience, even though I regard him as fundamentally wrong; and
I regard it as part of the problem of metapsychics to devise pro-
cedures that will drive him from his refuge.
VVe have, moreover, two concrete instances in Margery's history
which teach us that t his impervious skeptic, when not intellectually
honest, will go so far in his determination to combat the phenomena,
as to allege carelessness or even dishonesty against himself. Such
a "skeptic" can be neither cured nor converted and we need seek
to do neither. But we must protect the medium against him, and
this we cannot do while clinging to personal control. The investi-
gator too must today get away from this control, for his own pro-
t ection; for Houdini and Code have taught us that the claim of
fraud based on personal control is no more final than the claim 0£
validity so based. Honest exercise of personal control probably
gives, as Geley felt, a greater personal conviction than any sub-
stitute; but personal conviction must be sacrificed in behalf of
general scientific procedure.
Now none of us likes to be shut up, or tied up; and any substitute
which we may propose for personal control must necessarily be mechan-
ical, and bring with it some degree of confinement and discomfort,
mental if not physical. Margery is no freer from claustrophobic
shrinkings than anybody else; and while she had always expressed a
complete willingness to go to any lengths to improve the validity of
personal control, she had insisted that she would never submit to being
tied up or confined mechanically. But Code's conduct added to
Houdini's stressed the danger of permitting any person in the room
to enjoy a unique experience, about which he could lie or err with no
possibility of correction; and personal control is nothing but a sum-
mation of such experiences.
There was a lot of philosophizing of this sort in Lime Street during
the summer months of 1925, and Dr. Richardson did a lot of hard
thinking about the specific problems of design for a mechanical control
that should afford the maximum of rigor and endurability. The idea
which he finally worked out to the point of application involved a new
THE GLASS CABINET AND WIRED CONTROL 315
cabinet, of radically different style from the old one. It was con-
structed during the P sychic's absence in Buffalo in October-November,
and was ready for her on her return. We must first firmly fix its bare
physical features.
The dimensions are six feet deep, three feet wide and seven feet
high. There is a solid wooden floor, independent of the seance-room
floor, hinged at the back to permit raising it in its entiret y for inspec-
tion of the space beneath it, but otherwise integral with the cabinet.
The roof too is solidly built of wood and solidly screwed to the corner
posts. Two sides and the back are entirely of plate glass, save for
these corner posts, and for wood panels dividing them into upper and
lower panes, and in the case of the sides also into front and rear halves.
The fourth side of the cabinet, in front, matches the others in con-
struction, but is hinged so as actually to serve as a door; and it is
provided with latch, lock and key.
It will therefore be seen that instead of three sides plus a loose cloth
top, the new cabinet has six integral sides. It is a complete and self-
contained box. Conceivably the P sychic could sit in it, near the front,
wit h door open and with a circle maintained by herself and the sitters,
as in the open cabinet. Equally, she could be completely locked in
the glass box ; and in this event, conceivably phenomena might occur
inside the cabinet with her, or outside it in the room wit h the sitters.
There was no definite plan as to which of these alternatives would be
followed; that was for ' iValter t o decide.
vVhat was planned, however, regardless of how the sitting might.
be st aged in other details, was a complete mechanical control of the
P sychic's five extremit ies. At corresponding p oints in the wooden
panelling at the two sides are three pairs of rectangular ports, four
inches by four and one-half. Each of these is provided with a cover,
hinged at bottom and closing at the top with a snap-lock. At ad-
j acent points in the top of this cover and in the wooden frame im-
mediately above are eye-bolts, so that when the ports are closed they
may be wired or sealed. E ach port-cover is fitted with a chain that
prevents its falling open past a horizontal position; an0. when they
open, they open outward. The reader who is a bit ahead of the story
will visualize the Psychic's hands as emerging from these ports. It
will be equally clear that she may sit in a forward, central or rear posi-
tion in the cabinet, and let her hands project through the corresponding
pair of ports.
A word of description and discrimination will here be necessary for
316 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
most of my readers, revolving about the technical distinction between
eye-screws and eye-bolts. We are all familiar with eye-screws-screws
with a metal eye for a head, so that after they are screwed into placfr
a wire or cord may be passed through this eye for the suspension or
fastening of some object. The term eye-bolt involves something a
little different, which I can best explain by dealing with the present
particular case rather than with the general one.
Picture an ordinary screw-eye, but with straight shank like a bolt
instead of tapering shank like a screw. P icture a hole bored through
a wooden member of any sort, and the eye-bolt passed through this
hole and projecting considerably beyond it. Picture the hole as suffi-
ciently larger than the eye-bolt to permit the latter to turn freely in it.
Picture now a nut threaded upon the projecting end of the bolt,.
and screwed down close to the wood but not in actual contact there-
with, so that the bolt with its nut are still free to rotate as a unit.
Picture finally a process analogous to the heading down of a rivet~
whereby the threaded end of the bolt which projects beyond the nut is
bashed down upon this nut so that the latter may no longer be screwed
off. The bolt and nut, considered as a unit, may still be rotated in
their hole; but further than this, they constitute a single member,
quite inseparable. This member may be freely turned in its hole but
cannot be withdrawn therefrom; and one may twist and turn on the
exposed eye as long as one will, nothing will happen but this same
harmless and aimless rotation of the bolt in its seat.
Suppose the wooden member in which this bolt were thus secured to
be one. of the outer boards of the cabinet. Picture now another board
about to be placed face-to-face on this, to serve as the inner lining of
the cabinet. If we will bore or chisel a circular counter-sunk hole
part-way into the inner board at the point where this overlies th~
nut of the preceding paragraph, the latter will fit into this counter-
sink and will maintain the ability to rotate. And we now reach the
point where I q1ay make the specific statement that the eye-bolts in
Margery's glass cabinet are thus patterned and thus inserted. It is
a tricky and. expensive job, but when it is done we have this assurance:
the eyes, which to the casual gaze look as though they might so easily
be screwed ·out of place, can be rotated in their seats forever without
in the least degree coming out or coming loose. If you want to remove
one of these eye-bolts, you must destroy the encircling wood-work.
Now the primary purpose of the glass cabinet is to provide a means
of lashing the psychic for control of all extremities in such fashion
PLA'.rE 29. GENERAL VIEW m' •
.rHE UPPEL~ HALF OF THE GLASS CABINET, WI'l'H 'l'IIE
MEDIUM LASHED I N PLACE. 'rHE REFLEC'.riONS FROM THE GLASS P ANELS ARE CON-
FUSI NG BU~' 'l'HE P SYCHIC'S POS!'.riON INSIDE 'l'HE CABI NE'.r AND 'l'H E RELA'l'ION OF
'l'HE HAND 'l'IE TO ITS ENVIP.ONS VilLI, BE CLEAR.
THE GLASS CABINET AND WIRED CONTROL 317
that no rational claim can be advanced in behalf of the possibility of
her escape. The general necessities in this connection will be clear if
one will read my accounts of my sittings with Evan Powell and Nino
Pecoraro.3
It will there be·seen that wide separation of the medium's
hands; the use of a separate length of rope (or wire) for each point
of tying; avoidance of any turn of rope (or wire) that passes about
the medium's body or about anything superfluously; and a stretching
of the medium's extremities to the greatest possible extent, constitute
the fundamentals of this game. Also it will be understood that the
medium quite possibly possesses strength to break out of any bonds
which we may dare impose upon him; and that our task is not so much
to prevent this, as to be very certain that escape could not be gained
in such fashion as to leave the bonds intact against his subsequent
reentry into them.
The eye-bolts which I have described in the panelling outside the
cabinet and adjacent to the ports provide the points of attachment for
the hands. 'iVhen these are properly moored to the eye-bolts in ques-
tion, the protruding shelves furnish support for them, so that the
discomfort of having them hanging in air, supported only by the lash-
ings about the wrists and dragging down on these with their entire
weight, is avoided. The points of attachment for the feet are similar
eye-bolts, a pair of which is set, about eight inches apart, in the floor
of the cabinet at each of the three positions. The means of lashing
contemplated in the plans and employed continuously since the glass
cabinet has been in use is No. 3 picture-wire of the ordinary multi-
strand type. This, as everybody knows, is soft enough to be easily
tied by hand and cut with scissors, but will not stretch appreciably
under any ordinary load and presents a high tensile strength against
breaking. This wire of course could not be put, bare, about the
medium's wrists or ankles without cutting her. Accordingly flexible
rubber tubes are provided, of diameter somewhat less than a quarter-
inch. A pair of these is carefully cut to a length slightly less than the
ci-rcumference of the Psychic's wrists, and another and longer pair is
similarly made for her ankles. The wires are threaded through these ;
then, at the point where the two ends of the rubber fail to meet in
passing about the wrist or ankle, one may tie the bare wire into a
hard knot.
The usual procedure in lashing Margery into the cabinet is to take
3 My Psychic L1dventu1·es, Chrupter X; Scientific L1nwr·icwn, February, 1924.
318 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
a fresh piece of wire for each wrist and ankle, cut on the spot from the
roll by the person who is to do the tying. This is cut, by approximate
measure, long enough to pass around the member in question, to be
tied into a secure knot, and to leave projecting through this knot
ends long enough to pass to the appropriate eye-bolt and be again
tied. The exact procedure of the tying, of course, varies with the
individual doing it. Always the wire is cut, threaded through the
rubber tubes, and tied on the wrists and ankles in the full normal
electric light of the bedroom. These bracelets and anklets the Psychic
then wears into the seance room, and the second part of the tying is
done there, after she takes her seat in her chair in the cabinet. Some
sitte1~s make a workmanlike job of this; others do not. Some hesitate
to draw the wire from the wrist to the eye-bolt as tight as it can be
drawn; others do not. Obviously no generalization can be made cover-
ing anything beyond the means provided for the tying; plus the fact
that in my presence the Psychic has always encouraged the tightening
of these wires to the utmost, and more than once has insisted that
they are not tight enough. T he tendency of sitters of course is to
tie the ankles as tight as the wire will go, and to slack off a bit on
the wrists. Experiment with a sitter has made it clear that the pres-
ence of heels gives an alarming degree of freedom to the wired feet;
the feet can be scrouged over sidew11ys, and the full height of the
heel at once and automatically becomes slack wire. Not as a result
of this experiment, but always from almost the beginning, Margery
invariably goes into the glass cabinet in stockinged feet . Not all
movement of the feet can be inhibited; no matter how severely one
pulls on the wire before tying it, automatically the feet may to some
degree rotate about their eye-bolts as a pivot. 'iVith reference to
the hands, I can say most emphatically that I have on occasion tied
them so that they could not be retracted into the cabinet through the
holes, from their normal wired position outside on the shelves. I have
not always been able, even with Margery's keen cooperation, to tie
them equally well-the wire ·is not quite as manageable as one would
like and complete success in tying the wrists depends upon small
variable factors that one cannot readily isolate. 'iVe must theref01:e
be rather dependent upon the verdicts of the immediate observers as
to the satisfactoriness of the hand control on any given occasion.
In the glass cabinet as originally designed, a soft cloth collar was
provided for head control; this was secured by wire or cord to an
eye-bolt in the ceiling. Cleats on the cabinet floor make it difficult
PLNI'E 3-0. ENLARGED CLOSE-UP OF THE HAND-TIE IN THE GLASS CABINE'L'. 'l'H8 LEAD
SEAL HERE USED WAS ABANDONED A'r A RA'rHER EARLY DATE IN l'AVOR OF KNOTS
IN TI-
IE WIRE. THIS PIC'l'URE WAS 'rAI<EN AF'l'ER THE PSYCHIC HAD BEEN WIRED IN
'l'IIE CABINE'r FOLt ON" Ol' 'NIE FIRST SITTINGS HELD 'rHEREIN.
THE GLASS CABINET AND W IRED CONTROL 319
but of course not impossible for the P sychic's chair to be shifted during
the seance. This is of minor importance, however. A shift could not
be thought of as giving any freedom with hands or feet, wired to fixed
points as these are. It might give some freedom of the head. But
even this is doubtful. In the original design, just described, a forward
shift to bring the head nearer what will ultimat ely be found to be the
t heater of act ion would tighten the head control ; in the later design
for head control to which we shall come, a backward shift would alone
be possible, and this would take t he head away from that theater.
This seems to complete the description of the glass cabinet as a
physical factor; a fuJl set of photographs is given to supplement .
the printed word. The manner of use, the conditions surrounding
phenomena, etc., are sufficiently variable so that they can be t aken
account of only from seance to seance.
The new cabinet was introduced to W alter in two sessions on
November 7th and 8th which were so very infor mal that no record
was made of the sitters p resent. Crandon's memorandum tells us
merely :
On the P sychic's return [from Buffalo] there was a sitting
November 7th and another November 8th. These sittings were in
no way official/ but involved a try-out of the new plate-glass
cabinet devised by Richardson and donated by Dennett.5
W alter's
fi •-st comment was " Another box !" But as he proceeded he seemed
t n like it, and said that it would be particularly favorable for the
development of complete apparition. H e said the trouble, if any,
was that he would get too much force in it. This seemed to be
confirmed by the fact that he frequently ordered the glass door to
be opened; and when it was open a crack he would push it violently
open to about ninet y degrees with a force estimated at thirty-five
pounds. H e had no difficulty in reaching his terminal out through
the small hole in the front door and ringing t he bell-box. The
first official test of the new cabinet was set down for November 9th.
The record for the 9th gives considerable space to a description
of the cabinet . In so far as concerns matters which we have not al-
ready covered, it tells us that all the ports were sealed except the two
in which the P sychic's hands were wired and the one in the front door.
The P sychic sat in the forward position. In place of t ying the wire
4 The word applies to Richardson 's p rogram of sitting.-J. M. B.
5 As this 1
·emnrk indicates, nfter R ichnrdsnn 's design "·ns complete, Dennett paid
for the construction of the new cnbinct.- .J. 1\f. B.
320 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ends to the eye-bolts, these ends were passed through lead seals of
the sort used on freight-car doors; this procedure in fact lasted for
some weeks. The P sychic wore low shoes into the cabinet with luminous
bands that went over the instep and under the bottom of the shoe.
This of course would prevent the removal of a shoe without detection,
since the band of light was partly on the shoe and partly on the
stocking; to which latter, the record tells us, the bands were tightly
sewed. The record goes on:
·w alter came through quickly. One of the first phenomena was
a loud push of the door, which had been held partly open in order
to hear Walter's whisper. The door having then been closed,
there was considerable movement of the unlighted megaphone,
which had been placed inside the cabinet at the Psychic's right.
Then without warning the P sychic said that Walter was trying
to take off her shoes, which he did in a very short time, ripping off
the luminous bands. The door having been partly opened, Walter
placed the shoes in succession in the opening, whence they were
removed by Richardson.
' IValter said he was having considerable difficulty from two
factors. First the closed cabinet concentrated one kind of force
in such fashion that he could hardly control it. In fact, he was
afraid he might break the cabinet to pieces. There was also a sec-
ond factor, which prevented his doing fine work such as picking
up small objects. As regards the first factor, often when the door
was partly open it would be swung forward 'with a good deal of
force. In fact once when Richardson tried to shut the door he had
considerable difficulty in overcoming this force.
As regards levitation of objects, the luminous doughnut wa11
placed in the opening of the door for a consider able period of time
without ' iValter's being able to pick it up. Finally, however, after
about an hour's interval, he drew it into the cabinet but it fell im-
mediately upon the floor. Later he was more skillful and each
sitter had the following experience. He was told to take the illumi-
nated doughnut in his hand and hold it through the opening of the
door inside of the cabinet. In this position, Walter bent the
doughnut back and forth , t apped on it with his finger and at times
touched the hand of the sitter with his terminal which felt soft,
boneless and rather cool. Finally, in each instance, 'iValter suc-
ceeded in grasping the doughnut and carried it in beautiful circles
all over the anterior portion of the cabinet. The excursion of the
doughnut often times reached as high as the Psychic's head and
seemed to go slightly back of her head. Finally in one instance,
PLATE 31. THE LOWER PAR'!' OF THE GLASS CABINET, FROM IN FRONT WITH THE DOOR OPEN; TAKEN AFTER THE PSYCHIC HAD BEEN
WIRED IN 'l'HE CABINET FOR A SEANCE. THE DETAILS OF THE FOOT CON'l'ROL AND THE VERY SMALL SCOPE FOR MOVEMEN'l'S OF
THE FEE'l' ARE CLEARLY SHOWN.
THE GLASS CABINET AND WIRED CONTROL 321
the doughnut was p assed out of t he right lat eral opening and fell
upon the floor.
VValter then called for the large megaphone but when it was
introduced into the cabinet it was so bright that it made him very
angry. His tone of voice was ver y sarcastic a nd he seemed to think
that we should have known better than to put such a bright obj ect
in the c ~binet . This megaphone was therefore removed and re-
placed with a paper megaphone which had less bright lines on it.
This megaphone gave ' Valter a great deal of difficulty. H e could
not seem to grasp it and he was not able to levitat e it. L at er in
the evening, however, the brightness of the big megaphone having
been diminished it was p laced in the cabinet. Walter raised it
to the level of the Psychic's head, carried it in ali directions forward
and backward and finally dropped it on the floor. This he did
two or three times in succession. During this and most of the
other phenomena the door was locked. During all of these levita-
tions both Crandon's hands were held by Mrs. Richardson. Under
these circumstances, of course, the Psychic's free hand was still
controlled by the wire fast enings.
About 11 :30 P .M. the sitting ended. Immediately with the aid of
white torches the wire controls of the P sychic's feet were examined
and found to be intact. As a result of her experience, Walter
predicted that there would be found considerable swelling of the
hands and legs as the wire cut into the flesh quite a little.6
Such
was the case. The wire hand control s were then examined and
found to be p erfect as was also the bandage on the head. The wire
controls were then cut and preserved for fntnre rC' fer encr. The
seals on the unused doors were examined and found to be intact.
This sitting, therefore, showed that even though the Psychic's
extremities and head were under absolute control, vValter with his
extra t erminal was able to levitat e not only an illuminated paper
disc, but also a large and quite heavy megaphone. Of course dur-
ing all these phenomena Walter's terminal could be seen against
the brilliancy of the illuminated objects. During the major part
of the sitting the Psychic was in trance and her snoring could be
heard even outside the cabinet. The loop of bandage around her
neck seemed to choke her to a certain extent and although the
sitters became somewhat worried Walter said not to mind, that
he would take car e of it all right.
a The rubber tubing was an aftel·thought, introduced in view of this experience.
It not only protected the Psychic, but enabled the wire to be drawn much more
satisfactorily tight.-J. M. B.
322 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The practice of putting the Psychic in trance for the glass-cabinet
sittings became almost at once standard. I am very confident that
this is done to make her oblivious to the presence of her bonds; since
the phenomena given in the glass cabinet are in large part the same
as those given in the old cabinet, without trance. That she could go
through a major part of an hour in the glass cabinet with the wire
controls, in full consciousness, I wholly doubt; the trance however is
a convenient means of making the control tolerable, and at the same
time making possible its application with a rigor that one would hesitate
to employ with a conscious subject.
There was no intent to confine the mediumship to the glass-and-
wire control or to the phenomena obtainable therewith; but this theme
was pursued to the exclusion of all else for some time. In many ways
the riew procedure was experimental, and subject to revision from
llight to night. But it was taken as a matter of definition that the
new control replaced rather than supplemented older techniques. 'Ve
come finally to sitters who feel that they need the luminous-band con-
trol in addition to that of the wires, as added guarantee of the integrity
of the hitter. Since this demand means a coupling of two mechanical
controls and not a mixing of the mechanical and the personal, we
shall find that when made it is usually granted; but for the present
it was not made and the desirability of the combination did not occur
to Crandon. The protective rubber tubing was not used on the 9th,
as we have seen, but was on the 11th as we shall see in the next chapter ;
whether it was used on the lOth is not indicated in the record for that
date, with which we close this chapter :
Trance came on while the light was still on and before the circle
was formed. This followed the complete tying up of the Psychic's
five extremities, as described in the sitting of November 9th, namely,
with wire and lead seals and a halter for the head. E xamination
of the P sychic's mouth was made after the tying up and was nega-
tive. Mrs. Richardson superintended the dressing of the Psychic
which consisted of a single garment.7
•
8
7 Plus stockings.-J . M. B.
s A hostile critic has inquired, on reading this chapter whether Crandon is ever
sem·chcd, as well as the Psychic; if not, what is to prevcn t his pHssing appa.ratus
to her after the seance is unc
ler way. The very chflrge here contemplated is brought
later, as part of the necessary mechanism of fraud in the glass cabinet, by all adverse
critics. Cr:mdon is not searched nearly so often as the Psychic, but occasionally
this privilege is afforded the male sitters. So far as his confecleracy of the sort
indicatecl is concerned, there nre of course many occasions when he is absent, or
present ancl effectively insulatecl.-J. M. B.
" ----
PLA1'E 32. SPECIALLY POSED PHO'l'OGRAPH, SHOWING 'l'HE ROU'l'INE ARRANGEMEN1'S FOR HEAD· CON'l'ROL IN THE GLASS CABINE'l'. '£AJCilN
Al'TER '!'HE SUBS'l'ITU'riON OF THE LEA'l'HER COLLAR FOR THE CLOTH BANDAGE i SEE PAGE 331. THE DIFFICUL'l'Y OF LIGH'l'ING 'l'HE
INSIDE OF THE CABINE'I' FOR PHOTOGRAPHY 'l'HROUGH 'l'HE GLASS SIDES E.XPLAINS WHY 1'HIS VIEW WAS POSED RA'J'HElt ~rHAN
TAKEN IN CONNECTION WITH A SEANCE.
THE GLASS CABINET AND WIRED CONTROL 323
Under these conditions then the glass door was closed and after
a few words of greeting Walter said "two new reporters present.
All is lost." Under instructions Gerke held a luminous doughnut
about six inches through the front door hole (4 x 4% in~hes).
Walter fiddled with it for a few minutes and his terminal could be
seen touching the doughnut. Then he took it gently from Gerke's
hands and waved it all about in the cabinet, up to the ceiling and
as far as eleven inches back of the plane of the Psychic's head, and
finally thrust it out through the right-hand frame hole of the
cabinet into the hands of Crandon and Barnes.
This experiment was now repeated complete for Flynn; that is,
he held the doughnut through the hole in the door. At this time
the doughnut was levitated in all about four minutes. Through
the hole in the doughnut could be seen the blunt knobby end of
Walter's terminal protruding about two inches. The doughnut
at one time fluttered against the door-glass; and then, on request,
Walter rapped on the glass with his terminal, with an end project-
ing through the hole.
Crandon was now instructed to hold the Scientific American
bell-box in through the partly opened doorway and to put the
luminous doughnut on the flapper. This was done and Walter
proceeded to ring the bell repeatedly, his terminal being visible on
the doughnut as he pressed down the flapper.
The large luminous megaphone was now put in the cabinet and
the door closed. The megaphone was promptly levitated with great
skill and nicety, and wandered about like a huge fish in an aquarium.
It was finally lifted over vertically directly behind the Psychic's
head and was then laid horizontally on her left arm and was then
thrown over her head to the back of the cabinet.
Later Conant was instructed, by Walter, to crawl into the
cabinet on the Psychic's left to get out the megaphone, because the
light on it disturbed the force. Walter said that at that time he
was standing at the Psychic's right, out of Conant's way.
He then played a lot with the door, opening and shutting it.
Gerke had hung a paper doughnut, ten inches in diameter, like a
Christmas wreath inside the cabinet door. 'Valter proceeded to
tear this apart in one place and then allowed a red flash light to
be turned on to show it. At this moment of flash, which was re-
peated, Barnes observed a white mesh, apparently teleplasm, over
the Psychic's face in trance.
CHAPTER XXVI
A New Procedure of "One-Man Sitting-s"
From the Seance Records
Emphasis has just been put upon the fact that in starting the use
of the glass cabinet, no set rules were laid down beforehand. Alike on
VValter's part and that of the sitters, the procedure was visualized as
wholly experimental. The seance of November 11th saw the inaugu-
ration of an experiment of sufficient' distinction and importance to
nierit a special chapter. Those present were Richardson, Flynn,
Barnes, Crummy, Miss Conklin, Dudley, Conant, Gerke and Crandon.
Flynn is a well-known free-lance writer, who was present on a tentative
assignment to write the case up for Collie1·'s W eelcly, if he found it
sufficiently interesting for that purpose. Barnes was a regular mem-
ber of the staff of the Brooklyn Eagle on similar assignment. Bai·nes's
story appeared in the Eagle for December 27th; and Flynn had at
least three articles in Collier's, during 1926, on this case and on medium-
ship in general. We may let them tell the story of the present evening:
I proposed that in order to rule out all question of help from
either Crandon or any other sitter, some measures be taken
toward that end. The Psychic suggested a one-man sitting with
no one in the seance room but herself locked in the cabinet, and me
outside. Crandon advised a preliminary sitting of the Psychic, the
doctor, Richardson and myself to ask Walter's counsel.
Walter's voice came through promptly. He directed that the
Psychic be locked in the new glass cabinet and that I stand outside
the cabinet, all lights out. The doughnut was to be in readin'ess.
The door of the seance room was to be left open, with the hall lights
out and the other persons in the hall so that they might witness the
sitting from that point. I was directed to listen to Walter's
instructions. He would, as he announced, "run the show." The
doctor was instructed to remain out of the room. The circle was
then broken.1
1 Several persons on reading proof of this have felt that the sequence of events
was not clearly indicated; and have wondered whether it were not possible for
Crandon to pass a reaching rod or other apparatus to the medium in the interval
of more or less confusion suggested by the words: ''the circle was then broken.''
This statement in point of fact applies to the end of the informal conference sitting
with Walter. The sequence was that they all sat down .in old-fashioned style in
the open cabinet and chatted with "\'Valter about the evening's plans. This pre-
32-±
ONE-MAN SITTINGS 325
After this the Psychic was lashed in position m the new glass
cabinet. I witnessed the putting on of the wire controls. These
consisted of stout picture-wire carried through rubber tubing to
protect the Psychic's skin. One was securely fastened around each
wrist and each ankle. These wire bands were then fastened to wire
staples screwed into the floor and into the slots for the hands in
the side of the cabinet as already described in minutes of preceding
sittings. These wires were sealed with lead seals. I personally
inspected in white light all of these fastenings and saw that they
were secure. The Psychic's head was controlled by a band of
surgical tape around the neck and carried taut to the ceiling,
where it was fastened to a .staple. During these proceedings, which
were carried out by Gerke in my presence, Crandon was on the
floor below.
The door of the cabinet was then locked, the phonograph started
by Gerke and the room cleared of all persons save myself. The
door of the seance room was left open and was guarded by Barnes.
Other sitters were reported in the hall. The doctor was brought
upstairs and reported in the hall outside the seance room.
At this time I was in the seance room alone, with the Psychic
locked in the cabinet, lashed as described to the controls. I sat in
front of the cabinet with the luminous doughnut in my pocket. I
then put out the red light.
Walter came through very promptly. After a brief period he
· asked for the doughnut which I put through the slot of the cabinet
door. Within half a minute I felt Walter's terminal tapping the
doughnut and then saw it moving over the surface of the doughnut.
Then he passed the terminal across my fingers. I then saw the
terminal floating through the hole in the doughnut and then VValter
commanded me to "let go." The doughnut was lifted from my
fingers and floated gracefully around the cabinet. It soared a foot
or eighteen inches over the Psychic's head aJ;Jd around the outer
limits of the cabinet close to the glass. While this was going on
liminary session was brought to an end ; after which the usual motions of crettin"
the regular seance in the glass cabinet under way were gone through, q{;ite a~
though the group had only now come upstairs. Indeed, page 326 makes it clear
that t he P sychic was searched; and page 325 carries several statements showing
that Crandon was sent downstairs and kept there during the prepa rations t hat
no~v ensued for the formal seance. If only there were ·a clean·cut statement placing
th1s search between the informal and the formal sittings, the critic would ap-
parently be left with no leg to stand on. As it is, as the price of maintainin"
the oblique hypothesis, the informal seance itself and not t he interval followin" it
must be pict.ured as the occasion for guilty passing of appara tus from Crandon
t? ~he P syclnc, and the search of the latter must be placed prior to the informal
s1ttmg.-J. M. B.
326 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the P sychic, in ~bedience t o ' "'alter's insti·uctions, began to count.1
a:
She counted in an audible voice with clear articulation up to fifteen,
when her voice faded out. Up to this time she had not been in
trance, but when she reached fifteen her voice became faint. After-
wards it appeared that she had been put into trance at this point.
After a graceful, sweeping levitation of the doughnut, it fell
to the floor. W alter directed me to open the door and pick up the
doughnut. I did, placed it on the little shelf in the front door slot
and locked the door.
Walter then said someone else might come in for a repetition
of the one-man sitting. Barnes applied as a candidate. H e then
took my place at the cabinet while I retired from the seance room
and guarded the door.
I should add that before the Psychic entered the cabinet, Miss
Conklin reported that she had examined the Psychic when she
undressed and before entering the dressing gown in which she sat
and reported that t he Psychic had nothing concealed on her per son.
[ Signed] JOHN T . FLYNN.
Barnes made his statement with Flynn's before him, apparently,
and avoided a duplication of effort. H e tells us :
During the time that Flynn occupied the stool in front of the
glass cabinet, I guarded the door and can vouch for the fact that
during this period no one entered or left the room. Crandon stood
in the hall near the door and grasped my arm during most of this
period. VVe conversed from time to time during the period.
When W alter requested that some other person take the stool
before the cabinet I volunteered and took the stool. Flynn retired.
I asked Walter what I should do. H e requested me to place
the paper disc inside the cabinet (holding it in my hand). After
the usual intermission Walter grasped the disc and, as formerly,
levitated it about the room. Walter then thrust the disc through
the opening on the right side of the cabinet . I failed to discover
what had happened to the disc. Walter asked for Richardson,
whom I called. Richardson presently explained to me that Walter
had thrust the disc through the opening.
[ Signed] R ALPH W . BAR NE S.
The record for this date may be completed by the testimony of
Richardson, who makes the following statement:
1a To demonstrate that her mouth was not engineering the levitation.-J. M. 13.
ONE-MAN SITTINGS 327
During levitations of the luminous doughnut in the glass cabinet
I was in the hall, holding Crandon's hand. After Flynn and Barnes
had had their t ests, I took my place before the opening in the front
door. At Walter's request, I put the doughnut into the opening;
and after a short period of bending and tipping, VI!alter's terminal
grasped it and waved it gracefully in all directions, mostly in front
of the medium. Finally, on request, Walter dropped the doughnut
into my hand, within the door, from a height of at least a foot.
[Signed] MARK W. RICHARDSON.
The procedure of "one-man sittings " thus spontaneously brought
into being was recognized as an admirable one, and was continued on
November 13th. The record for this evening reads:
For now the fom·th time 2
the one-man sitting was repeated,
under the strict conditions of lashed control of the Psychic. All
her extremities were controlled in the manner already described in
the last three sittings. Then Osborne was left alone in the room.
All others, controlling each other, stood in the doorway. Osborne
handed the luminous doughnut in tlu;ough the hole in the locked
front door of the plate glass cabinet. H e then reports, and all of
us in the doorway confirm the fact, that the doughnut was seized
by an obvious black-appearing terminal and was levitated as high
as the ceiling in the cabinet over behind the Psychic's head to right
and to left, in graceful curves for a period covering four minutes.
This was then repeated for Franchois; and after this on request
of ·walter the luminous megaphone was put in the cabinet, the door
closed and it then went through all its usual beautiful gyrations
from front to back like an angry fish and was finally thrown over
the Psychic's head to the back of the cabinet.
The VCO machine was then brought i_
n, tested by Osborne, the
tube passed through the hole in the door, the special tube put in
the Psychic's mouth and then the door closed and locked. After
a few seconds the Psychic blew up the luminous floats to an extreme
degree of disparity, whereupon Walter spoke and whistled freely,
saying to Franchois '' How's that, you son-of-a-gun? "
This ended the phenomena for the evening, but Walter went on
to talk in his usual modest way on the topic that he didn't know
everything and that the opinions he expresses are only the opinion
of one man; that you may get as many pictures of the fourth plane
as there are discarnates to tell about it.
2 Counting- the Barnes and Flynn episodes of the 11th as two, and the present
experiments by Osborne and Fra.nchois as two more.-J . M. B.
328 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The record for the 14th shows some tendency to take the physical
arrangements for granted-a tendency into which Crandon ultimately
fell completely, after a temporary rally. The range of phenomena in
the glass cabinet was increased by at least one number, as the following
r ecord for thi s date indicates:
·'iValter came through promptly and greeted each one. The
Psychic had already been lashed with the wires and sealed as she
has been every night of this week. The controls were declared
faultless by all strangers present after personal examination.
'iValter then proceeded to give a one-man sitting for Judge Foss,
and again. fol' ·wilcox; and during this time all the others were
accounted for in the doorway but kept out of the room by one
person.
After this the big megaphone was put into the cabinet and
levitat ed and finally lifted high above the Psychic's head and
dropped behind it. During the doug]mut levitation, Judge Foss
reported it as five feet ten inches from the floor and at least two
feet behind the Psychic's head at times.
The VCO machine was then brought in, and the sole tube was
handed in to the Psychic, after its patency was proved by Judge
Foss. The door was then closed, the Psychic blew up the machine,
and while it was in a condition of disequilibrium VValter talked and
whistled freely.
At Walter's request then, we moved to the old cabinet and he
talked at some length with the sitters along his usual ethical lines.
The sitting closed at 10 :10 P.M. and all sitters agreed that they
were willing to sign the minutes.
For November 15th there was a presentation of the glass cabinet
to some of the older friends of the mediumship; and there resulted a
seance record carrying the signatures of all present. To some degree
it duplicat es what we have already had, but we have just criticized
Crandon mildly for failing to do this very thing. W e may therefore
give it in full:
Walter came through in one minute, the P sychic being lashed
with wires and seals as before. The lashings were examined by all
and pronounced satisfactory, whereupon 'iValter proceeded to give
his one-man sittings and levitations for Murray, for Dr. Brown,
and for Mr. Brown, all others being in the corridor at the time.
The following notes were then drawn up with the signatures as
here recorded.
ONE-MAN SITTINGS 329
We, the undersigned, hereby certify that the following is a true
account of what took place on the evening of November 15, 1925,
at the home of Dr. :t. R. G. Crandon, 10 Lime Street, Boston,
Mass., between the hours of nine and ten P.M. The medium having
removed all clothing in the presence of a lady and robed only in a
kimono, stockings and slippel'S was subjected to the following
control.
Loops of picture wire passed through rubber hose (to prevent
injury or discomfort to the skin) were knotted on each wrist and
ankle with fast knots drawn so tight that withdrawal of the hands
and feet or any of these was found to be impossible by t est.
The medium was then seated in a glass panelled cabinet, the
only openings to which, apart from the door, were hinged portholes
about six by four inches in size and a similar opening in the glasz
door. The ends of the· wire were then, in each instance, passed
through the eyes of eye-bolts firmly fastened to the floor and scaled
with lead seals in respect to the ligatures of the ankles. The hands
having been thrust through the openings at either side, the wires
·binding the wrist were likewise sealed through similar eye-bolts on
each side of and outside the cabinet. The head of the medium was
then held in an immovable 3
position by a soft bandage tied in a fast
knot behind the neck and this attached to the ceiling of the cabinet.
The medium was then examined in white light by ·each of the
sitters and the ligatures found fast, intact and prohibiting motion
in any direction by either the limbs or head except within a radius
of three or four inches. The door was then closed and all, except
one of the sitters, left the room but remained standing 1n the door-
way in such a position that the cabinet was in sight of all. The
single sitter remaining in the room passed an illuminated paper
ring into the cabinet, which was thereupon seen to be raised inside
the cabinet. to a height of above five feet, to pass to the right and
left of and finally completely around the medium, the door being
closed.4
Later the circle being formed and manual control maintained,
the door was opened and a large illuminated megaphone was placed
3 Relatively, of course, not absolutely; and much more nearly immovable 'in the
fore-rmd-aft sense than in that of sidewise swaying. Agnin, since the con trol is
applied to the neck, movement of t he head hy pivoting nt tho neck is nliYays pos-
sible, and could in fart be prevented only hy a 1
·igid holLl of some so1
·t upon the
forehea.cl z011e.-J. M. B.
4 It is of course often possible, in the cla1·k, by wnving n. luminous object bnck a.:ncl
fo rth in simple curved arcs, to give the illusion that a complete circular motion is
present. The record in the nature of the case can do no more thnn record, or imply,
the sitters' conviction that such was not here the case.-J. M_ B.
330 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
within the cabinet and was seen to be raised and made to pass
around the medium in the same manner as the ring had been.
The circle of all of the observers being again formed and manual
control of the hands of the Psychic being maintained, the tube of
the voice control machine was inserted through the opening in the
door. The illuminated floats were seen to remain in position. The
wires controlling the hands and feet and the bandage restraining the
head continuing in the same position as above stated. While the
floats maintained a position in the tubes showing no escape of the
air pressure the voice of Walter was heard and recognized and
carried on a considerable conversation and at intervals indulged in
a whistled obligato with the phonograph record.
At the conclusion the wires and bandage were again carefully
examined in white light and found with the knots and seals intact
and bearing no indication of having been tampered with. This
account was thereupon immediately prepared and signed by us as
soon as drawn up.
Signed: WENDELL P. MURRAY.
E. W. BROWN, M.D.
J. H. BROWN.
J . FRED ADLER.
R. H. GERKE.
K. E. BROWN.
The next seance was three nights later; and again the glass cabinet
was featured, with the one-man procedure applied to two more sitters
who had not previously enjoyed this. The record:
Seance at 10 Lime Street, November 18th, 1925. Present, to
left: B. Eddy, Bishop, Kent, Mrs. B. Eddy, Marshall, Miss Sea-
bury, Gerke, Crandon. 'iValtcr came through promptly, greeted
the newcomers in his characteristic jocular manner, and gave a
little sermon on the necessity of our understanding the meaning of
these sittings; that they arc no good to anyone unless they signify
the exist ence of psychic force apart from any question of spiritual-
ism. H e added: "You may call me a secondary personality and
hypnotic impersonation, or an exterior motivation. I will not
complain; only report honestly what you see and the conditions
thereof."
H e then proceeded to give a one-man sitting to Eddy and
Bishop in succession. The Psychic was submitted to the usual
wire lashings and head control. The glass cabinet was closed,
there was no one in the room but the one sitter. The presence of
ONE -MAN SITTINGS 331
all the others in the corridor behind him was attested by Bishop
and at the second experiment by Eddy. Under these conditions,
W alter took the luminous doughnut from the hand of the solitary
sitter, levitated it all about throughout the inside of the cabinet,
and then handed it back to the sitter. All those st anding in the
doorway could see the luminous levitation. Then all filed in and
stood in front of the cabinet . E ddy put the big luminous mega-
phone in the cabinet; door was closed. Crandon and Gerke were
a ccounted for. Under these conditions, Walter levitated the big
megaphone which cavorted around like a fish in an aquarium. Dur-
ing all these experiments the P sychic was in deep trance. Appar-
ently W alter was able to get force from an entirely new group.
The VCO machine was now used in the glass cabinet. Walter
spoke and whistled freely when the P sychic's mouth was fully occu-
pied by the tip. The tip was observed before and after to be in
her mouth. Then under instructions we all moved over to the old
cabinet and '"alter did the ringing of the bell-box while it was held
high by Bishop in good red light in the presence of all. Bishop and
Eddy put their hands all about the bell-box as it r ang intermit-
t ently high in the air. Bishop turned round 360 degrees, but the
phenomenon nevertheless continued.
The preceding record is of considerable importance, but comment
upon and demonstration of this will have to go over until Chapter
X X I X; for the development to which the November 18th procedure
points was postponed, owing to the immediate concentration during
December upon the one-man performance. I may in fact give without
further comment the four following records:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, December 8, 1925. P resent, to left:
Cotton, Dudley, Newman Gray, Crandon. Before the sitting
Cotton tied the loops on hands and ankles with square knots, using
number three picture wire. The P sychic then entered the glass
cabinet and Cotton tied the loose ends of ankle and wrist wires
through the eye-bolts and sealed the loose ends with lead seals. H e
then fastened the head by a piece of heavy twine to the eye-bolt in
the roof, coming down to a leather collar which he locked on the
Psychic's neck with a padlock. The possible excursion of any
ext remity did not exceed two inches.
The sitting then began and W alter came through promptly.
H e jested and then talked earnestly for the most p art to Cotton,
saying that all the churches should be one ; based on the central
idea of good behavior by all of us, because this plane is merely one
332 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
for the developmen-t; of character. He urged us to try to get the
spiritual point of view which is that most of the things which worry
us here are not worth it. He said you must only be sorry for
those who do not see this light and try to help them.
vVe thep. proceeded to try out the VCO machine. The single
tip was passed through opening in the front door by Cotton and
put by him in the Psychic's mouth, she remaining lashed as before.
The door was then closed. Shortly the Psychic blew up the
machine and then 'Valter proceeded to whistle and talk with per-
fect freedom; the luminous corks remaining ten inches apart in
level. Under these conditions, Walter finished by giving the
following poem:
Live thou each day as if it were thy last.
Unerring forces are at work unseen by you.
Take thou no hurried look into the past.
Live thou each day as if it were thy last.
'Valter then proceeded to give a one-man sitting to Cotton.
The rest Of the sitters were in the hall and the door was guarded by
Dudley. Cotton now put the luminous doughnut through the small
hole in front door. After a while we all could see Walter's terminal
playing with the doughnut and finally Walter seized it, levitated it
across the cabinet as high as five feet above the floor and down to
two feet from the floor. The whole levitation lasted three and one-
half minutes, and at the end the doughnut was thrust by Walter
out through the opening in the west side of cabinet. At the end
of levitation the Psychic was in trance.
We now transferred to the old cabinet and Walter talked and
whistled and joked and gave us a general good time until10 :15 P.M.
We note that starting with the above ·seance we have a leather collar
padlocked about the Psychic's neck, as a surer means of head control
than the tie of cloth previously used. For the present, the rope from
this collar runs to the top of the cabinet, as before. Ultimately (see
pp. 345, 360), by way of final improvement in the head control, this
rope will run to the back of the cabinet.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, December 11, 1925. Present: Mrs.
Brainerd, Miss Spence, Bixler, Harlow, Mrs. Harlow, T. Hyde,
Crandon. Bixler tied the wires on the Psychic's ankles and wrists
to the satisfaction of himself and everyone else present and then
tied these wires to the eye-bolts in the glass cabinet. He locked
the leather collar on the Psychic's neck and lashed it to the eye-bolt
in the roof. The e~cursion .of any extremity could not exceed
three inches.
ONE-MAN SITTINGS 333
The VCO machine was first tried but the collar made the Psychic
cough so much that the experiment was postponed.
Then a one-man sitting was given first to Harlow and second to
Bixler, all others being accounted for outside the room in the hall.
The Psychic was in trance. The lone sitter put the luminous
doughnut through the opening in the front door. Walter's t ermi-
nal could be seen grasping the doughnut and he then took it. H e
ordered the lone observer to st and and thereupon vValter levitated
the luminous doughnut all over the cabinet as high as five feet six
inches, both to right and left and over the Psychic's head to
eighteen inches behind her head, and finally threw it out on the
floor, probably through the west hand-opening.
The big megaphone was now put in the right front door of the
glass cabinet by H arlow and everyone being accounted for behind
Bixler and everyone st anding, the megaphone was seen to levitate
and ~ive about all through the glass cabinet like a fish in an
aquarmm.
The head was now released and the VCO machine brought out.
Mrs. Brainerd put the glass tip in the Psychic's mouth, the hands
and the feet remaining lashed. The front door was then closed
and locked and after a time the Psychic blew up the machine into
position of instability and Walter then proceeded to whistle the
tune which was on the victrola, then "Yankee Doodle " and then
the "Red, White and Blue," and then t alked freely. At the end
of this time the wire controls were inspected by Bixler and Mrs.
Brainerd. All were pronounced to be as originally made. The
P sychic was then released and the sitting was adjourned to the
old cabinet.
H ere after a time Bixler was told to pick up the bell-box, walk
about the room with it and turn 360 degrees. This he did. During
that time the bell-box rang with irregular intermittency. The
experiment was finished when the box came accidentally in contact
with Mrs. Brainerd's head. Walter invited them all to come again
to see more advanced phenomena.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, D ecember 12, 1925. Present:
Graham, Mr. and Mrs. [Charles C.] Woolley, Newman Gray,
Crandon. The Psychic was fastened in the usual way with steel
wire by Graham and VVoolley. ' iVhereupon Walter came through
with great cheerfulness, levitated the doughnut within the cabinet
for each of the gentlemen separately while all the others were
accounted for-in the doorway. He then levitated the three-pound
luminous megaphone under the same conditions. The voice-cut-out
machine was then used with 100 per cent success.
334 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHif
After this we moved to the old cabinet and Walter rang the bell-
box while Graham lugged it about the room as far as seven feet
away from the P sychic, at all levels. It rang intermittently and
irregularly.
Sitting closed at 10 :30 P .M . On going downstairs Graham 5
sat by the Psychic and was able to visualize to her satisfaction a
complete picture of the home of her birth and childhood with many
details. He was also able to see and describe accurately two dogs
who existed at that time.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, December 18, 1925. Present: B.
Eddy, S. Eddy, G. Eddy, Richardson, Mrs. Richardson, Crandon.
Walter came through promptly with very strong whistle and voice.
He had some difficulty and humor in placing the various Eddys.
He finally called our newest visitors Sherwood, Hardwood, Oak,
and finally Oakey. ljiVe had fifteen minutes of conversation and
whistling till Walter got his force gathered.
Under direction of Walter the VCO machine was now brought
out. The door of the glass cabinet was held open by a stool. The
Psychic had already been lashed, all five extremities, and after a
while she blew up the machine. Whereupon Walter whistled,
trilled, whistled " Yankee Doodle" on request and recited his stanza
beginning "Live thou each day as if it were thy last," etc., with
much emphasis on the last word and especially clear enunciation of
the st in last.
Then S. E . sat in front of the cabinet with the luminous dough-
nut. G. E. was in contact with the lashed left hand and S. E . from
time to time was in contact with the right lashed hand. S. E . had
fastened or observed the fastening of all the Psychic's extremities
and the sealing of all the wires before the sitting. The other sitters
were in the hall, B. E. standing in the doorway and answering for
the presence of all the other sitters behind him so that no one was
in the room but the Psychic, the two Eddys and vValter. S. E.
held the doughnut in through the front door hole. \Valter flirted
with it a while and then took it and levitated it beautifully all over
the front portion of the cabinet as high as five feet and to both sides.
It was finally dropped and then the experiment was repeated.
Next the door of the cabinet was held open with the stool. The
luminous three-pound megaphone was put in the right front corner.
All observers r etired to the doorway and were accounted for.
Whereupon Walter levitated the megaphone all over the front half
of the cabinet and finally threw it out with great force.
5 See pp. 84, 396; also open 1·efe1·ence No. 12, Vol. 2.
I
ONE-MAN SITTINGS 335
When the Psychic had come out of her trance we moved to the
old cabinet. Whereupon after some talk Walter said that his
force was pretty well gone and closed the sitting at 10:30 P.lii.
The procedure typified by the above record is evidently a new
one, one of general applicability, and one adding greatly to the evi-
dential values of the seances. The whole complicated question of a
confederacy from various quarters of the circle, employing more than
one accomplice in a given sitting and shifting the immediate locus
of the fraud from moment to moment to meet the momentary condi-
tions of observation enjoyed by the innocent sitters, goes at once and
permanently into the discard with the inauguration of this seance-
room technique. The whole question of Crandon's essential role in
the phenomena becomes likewise a dead issue. The lone sitter gains a
personal assurance against circular confederacy which is unmatched
by any other conceivable seance arrangements; and his personal assur-
ance is transferable to his reader or his auditor to a larger degree
than is the case with older procedures of sitting. The detached critic
who realizes that the hypothesis of fraud can be maintained only at
the cost of a very extensive confederacy among the sitters finds this
confederacy now taking on added characteristics of universality and
spontaneity which must give him greater hesitancy in the promulga-
tion of this theory than has ever before been forced upon him. The
absence of the circle enables the lone sitter to concentrate completely
upon what is going on as of the seance action p1;oper, and his report,
alike of phenomena and of co~b·ol, can therefore be much better trusted
than in the routine circular seance. Indeed, it becomes difficult to
catalog all the advantages of this style of sitting, all the points of
pre-existing doubt which it meets or helps to meet.
From the date of the last record, above, the one-man seances ceased
to be so much an end in themselves, and we therefore bring the chap-
ter to an end at this point. The reader will find, however, as he goes
on, that the procedure is retained for use at numerous junctures where
it is of particular availability; and that in fact the one-man seance
or the one-man phenomenon occurring as an episode of a general
r.eance, is now a regular part of the Margery case.
CHAPTER XXVII
The Bell-Boxes: to November, 1925
From the Seance Records with Comment by the Editor
W e have described the SAB (Scientific American bell-box) in all
det ail in Chapter X; and in this same chapter, plus a brief space at
the end of Chapter X I, we have brought its routine use in the seance
room down to July 9th. We.have now to trace the history of this and
such other bell-boxes as performed after that date, and down to a point
where we may again find reason for interrupting the narrative. And
the first thread which we must her e pick up is that of the ringing of the
Hole Bell-box without visible means of access to its mechanism. This
trick, which we first met in Chaps. X I and X I V for a time seemed about
to become a regular part of the Lime St reet menu. It was done
again on July 21st, "under st rict conditions of double control
with anklets, wrist-bands and head-band all visible where they should
be. Hunt held the P sychiq's two hands and Granger held Crandon's
two hands and head; and Walter rang this bell repeatedly the
number of times r equest ed by various sitters." One must now
raise a serious question as to the means employed by Walter for
this act. Even the hostile critic, I suppose, will concede that all
normal means of entry to the box are sealed, and that for fraud of
any sort only the P sychic's feet are available. Manipulation, with
these, of a wire at least eighteen inches long, in such way that both
ends of this wire shall simultaneously make contact with small screw-
heads, would be a remarkable performance in full light. Doing it in
darkness seems quite out of the question. So we are reduced to a
choice between a teleplasmic conductive member running from one end
of t he box to the other, and a supernormal means of entry to the box
by Walter. But he has failed to gain supernormal access to so many
closed containers that I st rongly prefer the former alternative. An
apparent drawback thereto would lie in the fact that operation of the
gimmick circuit with a wire always leads to visible sparking, which has
neve1· occurred, within any sitter's observation, when W alter rang the
box. But the assumption that sparking would occur with a teleplasmic
bridge between the two contacts, as freely as it would with a bridge of
336
THE BELL BOXES: TO NOVEMBER, 1925 337
copper wire, is a large one and one that may well be contrary to the
facts.
This picture of the genuine psychic use of a machinery introduced
for purposes of deceit is a highly diverting one. We find it repeated
on July 22nd and 27th, under the same conditions. Concentration
upon teleplasmic phenomena then threw the telekinetic aspects into the
shade for a while, and my discovery of the gimmick in the HB ensued
before it could be restored to its place in the seance routine. w ·ith
this discovery, of course, it was permanently excluded from the seances,
though it remains in Crandon's possession as an exhibit of extreme
interest. Complete reference to its history occurs on p. 189.
w·hile this HB and other Harvard apparatus was in the house and
before it began to find its way into seance use, there ensued a brief
series of demonstrations with the SAB which were quite noteworthy.
Five successive evenings on which it was used (not five successive
seances ) saw something novel in the way of conditions or performance.
The dates, and the portions of the records pertaining to the SAB,
follow:
June 27th ( 1925) : Walter proceeded to work on the SAB in
red light. He rang it in red light the number of times requested
by Hill and Dudley, respectively. Then he ordered the red light on
again, and we were able to see the slow, complete excursion of the
flapper.
July 5th: Walter had the SAB examined by the newcomers/
then rang it the number of times requested in red light by Hubbs,
Brown, Jr., and Mrs. Hubbs; with 100 per cent success. He then
had Murray pick up the box three times in red light and turn each
time through 360 degrees. During the first episode the bell rang;
during the second it did not; during the third it did. During the
second episode, while Murray was turning around Brown rang the
bell [by normal depression with his hand], to show that it was
operative although Walter was not working it.
July 6th: Walter showed the bell-box ringing in red light in
Tesponse to a request made after the light came on. Hodges and
Mrs. Hodges in succession lifted the box and turned through 360
degrees, the bell ringing after being lifted. Walter had Hodges
put his finger in the angle between the contact board and the top
of the box, and he then rang the bell, pinching Hodges's finger by
the depression of the flapper.
1 The usual procedure with bell-box work, of course.-.J. M. B.
338 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
July 8th: Walter proceeded to ring the SAB the number of
times requested by each sitter in order, the request being made in
the same period of red light with the ringing. He then had Foss
pick up the SAB, and it rang intermittently while Foss was turning
around. This was repeated for Mrs. Southworth. Walter then
asked Foss to put his finger between the contact board and the top
of the box, and Foss could feel the flapper press on his finger as
the bell rang.
July 9th [ Crandon's record]: ·walter came through with a
ring on the SAB in the dark. Later he rang it the number of times
requested by Bigelow and Bird, with perfect success. Finally, he
permitted the following test, for which he took eight minutes of
preparation in darkness after the details had been agreed upon.
In red light Bird called for two longs and a short; these were given;
in the same continuous period of red light, Bird and Richardson
examined the box for connections as it stood on the table, then
removed it, withdrew with it into the bedroom, and examined it
thoroughly with negative result. The red light was on continuously
from before the request and the ringing, until after the box had
left the room.
July 9th (my record): In red light, with the bell-box on the
table, I called for two long rings followed by one short. These were
given. In the same continuous period of red light Richardson and
I examined the box thoroughly for connections, finding nothing.
We then removed it from the table, took it out of the room, and
examined it externally and internally in full white light, with nega-
tive result. Red light in the seance room continuous from before
my command until after the box had left the room.
The experiments in which a sitter's finger is squeezed by the descend-
ing flapper are not reported with all possible clarity. This pinching
was effected as a separate episode, with the box standing on the table
and ringing in a new interval of red light; not while it was held aloft.
It can accordingly be claimed that the ringing in the sitter's hand is
done by tampering with the spring, that on the table by means of a
mechanical connection to the flapper. But this latter claim suffers
severely on the 9th; I doubt that such a thread could be disconnected
in red light without the move's being observed, and I am certain it
.could not be left connected during my examination of the box on the
table, without detection. In any event, we make progress when we
drive the skeptic to picture a lightning passage from one fraud to
THE BELL BOXES: TO NOVEMBER, 1925 339
another in the same seance; this is considerably more difficult than an
initial selection of a single fraud to be employed on a given date.
The next item to which we turn consists in a slight change in the
design of the SAB: the addition of a spot of luminous paint on the
top of the contact board, so that motion of this board might be looked
for in the dark, or eclipse of the spot by \iValter's terminal observed.
T he spot was not large enough ever to give any picture of the eclipsing
terminal, so such eclipse could never add anything to existing knowledge
or existing indications of validity. Motion of the flapper, moreover, if
observable only through motion of the spot, will have occurred while the
box is standing on the table in the dark; and will not meet any theories
.advanced by any sane critic as to how such ringing is engineered. One
might hope, through careful watching of the spot, to observe an nbscnce
of motion that would defeat the theory under which the Psychic manipu-
lates the spring as the box stands by in darkness; such manipulation
would involve some motion of the contact board, even if there was a
second free hand to prevent this from being too noticeable. But the
record conveys no indication that this observation was ever attempted.
We may, therefore, igno.re the bright spot.
On this date (July 14th, 1925) there occurred bell-ringing without
any feature requiring description. The same is true of the 19th, Dud-
ley acting as " engineer"; except that we might mention the successful
prosecution of the test under which the bell refuses to ring when carried
.about after VValter has " removed his force." Hereafter we shall
regard this test as part of the routine, and omit it from special mention.
T he performance of the 20th, in the dark, was notable for the control :
During this ringing Hill had the Psychic's left hand and knee,
and her head-band could be seen where it should be. Litzelmann
held her right hand and Crandon's two hands, and Crandon's chin
rested on Litzelmann's hand. The Psychic's two anklets were
visible, and her two feet rested on Litzelmann's feet.
For a few days here, "the Code bell-box with the luminous covers
and luminous plunger" was used in Lime Street. This was an improve-
ment upon the Harvard version of the Dingwall bell-box,'a in which not
only the horizontal platform but also the vertical shank of the plunger
1a Pages 118, 123, 305.
340 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
was made luminous. It was among t he apparatus donated to the Lime
Street seance room by Code,2
and I infer that its novelty appealed to
Walter . H e rang this on the 20th, his hand being visible grasping the
plunger; and again on the 21st and 22nd, with the same result.
Routine ringing of the SAB without feature occurred on July 21st
(Hunt and Granger engineering, 22nd (Bullard and Davis), 28th
(Mrs. Bonbright), 30th, 31st (Misses Conklin and Clancy ) ; August
8th (Davis, Mrs. Davis and Hill) , 9th (Davis and Mrs. Davis), 17th
(Bentley ) , 30th (Zeliqzon) ; September 20th (Mrs. Price and Dudley ) ,
26th, October 2nd (Saunderson) , 3rd (:Fessenden) and 16th. During
this period the following excerpts from the record involve something
a bit beyond the ordinary :
July 27th: After some preliminary trials in the dark, 'Valter
rang th~ SAB the numbers of times requested by De Wyckoff, Fogg,
and Miss Boring, r espectively. T hen in good red light Miss Boring
picked up the SAB, and after it was in the air it began to ring
intermittently and inegularly while she turned a complete circle
st anding, and set it down on the t able. It then stopped ringing in
the same period of red light, without intervening darkness.3
August 3rd: H e proceeded in red light to ring the SAB the
number of times request ed by Cotton. This he did twice success-
fully, then allowed Cott on to pick up the box; it rang and stopped
in the air while Cotton turned a complete circle.
August 15th: It rang intermittently while he [Foss] had it in
the air and turned himself completely around, the whole phenome-
non beginning and ending in good red light.
I include the episode of the 3rd in spite of its ambiguity; it does
not clearly appear whether the ringing stopped p ermanently while the
box was still in the air. On the 15th I was p resent, and the ringing
did clearly come to a stop while Foss held the box poised above the
t able prepared to lower it thereto. If this were due to the release of
pressure against a tricked '!pring as the downward motion began, I
should certainly ex'pect to get one tinkle out of the bell through reac-
tion as the motion comes to a more or less abrupt end against the table ;
2 Page 125.
a One might plead that t he interval bet ween her picking it up and its start ing to
ring was infinitesimaJ, and that the very irregularity of ringing supported t he c-laim
that a tampered spr ing was jarring into and out of contact. But why, then, did it
stop ringing af ter it had been deposited on the table ~-J . M. B.
THE BELL BOXES: TO NOVEMBER, 1925 341
but nothing of the sort happened. And if the spring is not sensitive
to this jar, how can it be sensitive to jai·s received while being held
free in the air?
Sept. 1st: In red light Abbott then picked up the SAB and
as he stood with it in his hands it rang intermittently, the whole
phenomenon beginning and ending in red light.
This is again ambiguous, like the entry for Aug. 3rd. The fact
that similar ambiguity exists in the record for Aug. 15th, but that I
can there testify to the favorable facts, is sufficient justification for
including the other two records under the suspicion that they may
represent the same sort of action. For Sept. 3rd we have the same
ambiguity in connection with a ringing engineered by Coughlin.
Oct. 23rd: Walter gave instructions for the red light to be
turned on again, and Hamilton was told to pick up the SAB. At
this moment Crandon was called to the telephone and was out of
the room for about four minutes. During this time Hamilton car-
ried the SAB over to the window at least ten feet from the Psychic,
and it kept ringing intermittently and irregularly througho~t the
trip. On his return to the circle he passed the box, still ringing
intermittently, to his neighbor, and so it was handed around to
every sitter, continuing to ring intermittently throughout.
As has been chronicled elsewhere, Margery was out of Boston dur-
ing the last days of October and the early ones of November; and
when she returned home the glass cabinet was in use. On two occa-
sions the bell-box was rung with Margery wired into this. On the very
first dates on which the glass cabinet was used, N ov. 7th and 8th, we
have seen that, with the door of the cabinet closed and the bell-box
on a table outside, " Walter had no difficulty in reaching his terminal
out through the small hole in the front door and ringing the SAB."
And on the lOth, under somewhat different conditions, it again rang:
" Crandon was instructed to hold the bell-box in through the partly
opened doorway and to put the luminous doughnut on the flapper.
'iValter then proceeded to ring the bell repeatedly, his terminal being
visible on the doughnut as he pressed."
After these two dates the bell-box was not used in the glass cabinet;
and we therefore defer giving its further history until we have brought
other aspects of the mediumship up to the 1926 stage.
CHAPTER XXVIII
The Wooden Letters: A New Instrument for Cognitions
From the Seance Records with Comment by the Editor
Concerning one feature of the glass cabinet little has yet been said,
because we have not yet had occasion to use it. For such phenomena
as in their very nature require a table provision must be made. In
place of an independent unit with legs, it was elected to supply the
cabinet with a shelf-like member, freely removable, to fit in place across
i:hc opening of the doorway. V\Then thus inserted, the shelf is 30
inches off the floor, 111/2 inches deep from front to back. It projects
into the cabinet to exactly these 111h inches, since its outermost edge
is flush with the front of the cabinet. In this position, the distance
from the knees of the lashed Psychic to the inner edge of the shelf is
9 inches. From the point at which the wire lashings bear on her
wrist to the nearest point of the shelf is, at either side, Slj
2 inches. I
mention the wrist in this connection rather than the hand or the
corner of the port, since any effort to reach the shelf with her hand
would be made by a pivotting at the wrist, using the loop of wire as
a fixed bearing point.
For the seance of January 5th, 1926, a new idea (Richardson's)
for identification phenomena was for the first time presented to ' iValter.
The entire seance was given to this, so I may quote the r ecord in full:
The Psychic was lashed with wire at all five extremities, as usual.
On the shelf in front of her, in the dark, thirteen large wooden
letters such as children play with were distributed in an order more
or less known to Hill but to no one else. These were four inches
square over all, and one inch square in structural cross-section.
The Psychic did not even know the nature of the objects on the
shelf. The door of the cabinet was closed.
Trance came on almost at once and Walter spoke and whistled
in a most cheery and alert manner. He spoke of a song his
Mother used to sing him asleep with. H e then said: " It made me
so sad that I cried and after that she sang 'Juanita' which was
almost as bad." Whereupon he began whistling" Juanita" against
the victrola music. H e said he would play with the letters and
keep us entertained but he was really busy on his big stuff.
342
WOODEN LETTERS 343
Among the letters put on the shelf were enough to make up the
name W alter and that was the only word any of us had in mind.
Nevertheless W alter said shortly, " Judge, why didn't you put
a nother L in? I have HEL." ' Vhereupon we heard letters falling
to the floor in the back of the northeast corner of the cabinet .
Shortly more letters fell and ' Valter said: " Y ou will find H E L in
the back corner ; you will find M A between the P sychic's feet ."
All this was done with the door of the cabinet closed and then he
suddenly ordered it open, saying that there was too much force in
it, and he feared he would break the glass. Then the Judge said,
" Is there a number there, ' Valter ? " And V\T
alter after a while said,
"Yes, Judge, here is a 2." Later several of us failed t o dis-
tinguish this 2 from a 5 in t he dark, but in the light it was
easy. H ence ' Valter did in the dark what was only easy for us in
the light. H e then handed Mrs. Richardson an S, t elling her what
it was. H e then threw another under Dr. Richardson's chair and
told him it was a T. All these identifications were 100 per cent
correct.
W e had no plan for segregation of letters which he might' spell
words with and the method used was his own. There was no light
at any time during the sitting and at the end all the lashings were
found to be intact.
The identification of the letters rapidly became a feature of the
new " standardized seance,"1
but in so far as it is necessary to d es crib~
a ny further the performances of individual sittings, I propose to
a bstract them and give them in the present chapter . For January
13th:
'Valter shortly said: " Now while I am getting things ready,
put some of the wooden letters on the t able." Kearns t hereupon
went into the back room alone and took out about a dozen wooden
letters, brought them into the dark seance room, and put them on
the shelf t able in front of the unconscious P sychic. Thus no one
in the room could know what the letters were except Kearns. W alter
had the door shut for a while and then ordered it open and picked
out in series a J, a 3 and a W , throwing them at the feet of Kearns.
The identifications were all correct . During this episode and imme-
diately after it the integrity of t he wire lashings was confirmed by
B. E ddy.
J anuary 14th: The she1f t able was then put in and letters were
put on it by Hill, known only to him. W alter then shuffled the
1 See Chap. XXI X.
344 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
letters about a lot, talking to himself as it were as to what word,
if any, he could spell out of the nine letters and one number which
were on the table. After about five minutes he threw out to Hill,
naming each letter as he threw it, the letters S A K E . He then
threw a G to Mrs. Frothingham and a C to Crandon, naming each
before he threw it. The identifications were correct in each instance.
January 18th : Morse went in the dark into the back room and
brought back, without looking at them, a bunch of the large wooden
letters. These he put, still in the dark, on the shelf in front of the
Psychic, and V\T
alter proceeded to throw them one at a time at
Morse, naming each one as he threw it successfully.
January 21st: Under instructions Miss Ball went to the back
bedroom and brought back a handful of the large wooden letters,
which she piled on the shelf without knowing what letters they were.
Walter then proceeded to throw them back at Miss Ball's feet, nam-
ing each one as he did so. H e did this correctly in every instance
but one, where he called it an S and it was a 2. Miss Ball said, " Is
not that a 2, Walter? " · And Walter replied, " I guess it is. I
am an opportunist."
January 23d : In the dark Hill then took a double handful of
large wooden letters and put them on the shelf in front of the
Psychic. Walter proceeded to throw out three of these letters,
one at a time, naming each one as he did so; namely, T, 8, and C.
Each co.gnition was correct.
January 24th : VValter then went on to identify the wooden
letters. He got mixed on two, calling D an 0. The interesting
part of it is that the outline of the hole in both was an identical
octagon. He mixed a C and a G also. Six others were correct.
These six excerpts seem sufficiently to characterize the identifica-
tion performance; we need not quote the records further save in so
far as they indicate some element of novelty or tinusual rigor. Nor
need we cite all the evenings on which identification of letters was done;
these will be cited in another place.2
Notable incidents in connection
with the letter work include the following:
February 4th (1926) : " Besides the lashings, tactual control of
the Psychic was maintained continuously by Gerald and Rand."
March 4th: It is customary, as the detailed quotations above
indicate, for the sitter who selects the letters from the stock, and puts
2 Chapters XXIX, XXXVII.
WOODEN LETTERS 345
them on the shelf in front of the Psychic or (later procedure) in the
basket, to grasp them carefully between two fingers in such fashion as
to insure no knowledge on his part of their identity. But this very
absence of knowledge, while it rules out telepathy in explanation, also
:suggests the prior concealment of other letters known to the Psychic
and the substitution of these. So on the present date, to rule this out:
"Walter then directed Van Arsdale to put on two more letters in the
dark, but this time to know what they were before he put them on (the
shelf). These VValter identified with his usual speed."
March 8th: " Then [after the routine identification of letters
unknown to any sitter] he identified two letters which Reilly picked out
in the dark re;ith knowledge of what they were."
March 13th: The above variation was repeated with Morse hand-
ling the letters.
March 23d: The record for this date is of considerable importance,
for on it was based a double change in procedure. It reads:
Walter came through promptly in ·good spirits and went to
work on the cognition of the wooden letters. This he did with 100
per cent perfection, and then had a sitter put on two letters which
the sitter knew. These were promptly recognized also and thrown
out. Two letters were put out through the right-hand hole.
After the sitting Davis tried in vain to beat the VCO machine.
But he was able with head triced up as the Psychic's is, to pull
his head forwards far en_ough to pick up the letters with his teeth.
Walter, in later conference, suggested that we put the letters here-
after in a basket on the floor of the cabinet and also fasten the
Psychic's collar horizontally backwards to the back panel of the
cabinet, thus meeting this crjticism.3
To one versed in the ways of sleight-of-hand and misdirection of
attention, there is a distinctly suspicious element in Walter's double
suggestion of the above record. The' one innovation of fastening the
Psy'chic's collar horizontally to the back of the cabinet instead of
vertically to the roof, as heretofore, would be ample to meet the weak-
ness in control developed by Davis. When W alter supplements this
suggestion with another one that moves the letters from the place in
which they have always been deposited to another, the keen critic must
wonder whether this is not so that, having been obliged to give up the
means previously used for getting hold of them, the Psychic may be
s See pp. 332, 3·60.
346 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
able to get hold of them in a new way: to be specific, with her hands.
The basket in question has a long handle, and it is not immediately
obvious that, with her hands lashed, she might not be able to get a
finger hold on this; after which it may be that she could work along
the handle until she got the basket in her lap and the letters in r each
of her groping hand. The wire control is severe, and the honest critic
would only want to experiment in an effort to see whether this would
work. F air or unfair, however, the critic must have his attention
drawn in this general direction by Walter's double change in the con-
ditions, which was put into effect for the next seance. But very for-
tunately, in this and the immediately following sitting, the suggestion
is cleanly met; for on the 26th:
The Psychic having been lashed as usual but with the new head
control, vValter proceeded not only to name correctly and levitate
unknown letters from a basket on the floor of the cabinet, but also
letters from the shelf in front of the Psychic.
If we are to think in terms of fraud her e, we need a reaching rod
and a confederate; this seems the unanimous verdict of the skeptics.
The necessity for the tool is fairly evident. That for the assistant
arises out of the fact that even were the Psychic able to secrete it
about her person in such way as to evade whatever search she might
undergo-a variable factor and therefore a dangerous one--her bonds
would probably prevent her from infallibly bringing it out and into
use and disposing of it after usc. For all this the simpler and safer
measure by far would be a confederat e to pass her the rod and to
r eceive it back from her when she was through with it. One attending
all the glass-cabinet seances would be very much impressed with the
fact that neither Crandon nor any other single p erson nor even any
small number of given persons would always have this opportunity;
but of course with respect to Crandon or any group of two or three
persons one at least of whom could be found on the roster of each
seance, the records in the nature of the case cannot make any showing
of innocence against this theory. I suppose it may even be advanced
against the one-man sittings; though with more difficulty there than in
general sittings. Except by specific testimony by some sitter that at
a given seance or seances he kept active watch for such a move and
was able to satisfy himself that none was made, I do not see how the
suggestion on which I her e comment could be disposed of. And I
suppose that if this t estimony were given, the elastic skeptic would
WOODEN LETTERS 347
fall back on the claim that, at these sittings, the Psychic had the rod
in her own possession from the beginning, and was able to bring it
into action.
On the 27th both the shelf and the basket were again used as
depositories for the letters; and w·alter made but one error in eight
identifications, mistaking a W for an N. And some of the letters
which he recognized he disposed of by thrusting them out through the
right-hand port hole. 'This is pretty well filled with wrist, and would
be further filled with partly r etracted hand if it were attempted to get
the letters out through it by normal manipulation of the hand.
On April 1st he did the letters with equal success from the floor and
from the shelf. After this, for numerous dates from April to Septem-
ber, detailed r ecords are given in Chapters XXIX and XXXVII
which include among other things the letter-identification act. In
general it may be said that this act shows no further development that
is not amply covered by these full records. So with the reminder that
Chapter XXXVII lists all the occasions on which the letters were used
and for which the complete records are not elsewhere given, we may
close the present chapter.
CHAPTER XXIX
The Standardized Seance, in Two Parts
From the Seance Records, with Comment by the Editor
The record for November 18th,ll925, shows the first approximation
to a procedure which crystallized in early 1926, and which has ever since
that date been habitually followed in what Crandon characterizes as in-
troductory or elementary seances, designed to initiate and instruct per-
sons with no wide experience in psychical matters or no previous
contact with this mediumship. The routine finally hit upon for these
seances is usually carried through with no material deviation. It
involves putting the Psychic into the glass cabinet under all appro-
priate precautions; after which she goes into trance and so remains
while there are produced levitation phenomena and identifications of
personal objects or wooden letters or both. She then awakens from
trance and while the wire controls of her hands and feet are maintained,
her head is freed from its collar for her greater comfort while a per-
formance with the VCO is given. At the conclusion of this test, there
is due and solemn inspection of the controls, followed by release of
the Psychic. The entire company then moves across the room to the
old cabinet, where are presented in intermittent red light the bell-box
(SA model, ordinarily) and perhaps other phenomena.
This idea of combining the basic features of both cabinets in a
single seance is a bold one, and of course quite a departure from ordi-
nary seance practice. It originated, as stated, on November 18th,
and the words of the record: "Under instructions we moved over,"
leave no doubt that the procedure was Walter's own invention. It
will be seen that these sittings combine two types of control for tele-
kinetic phenomena; they do not afford a mixture of the telekinetic and
teleplasmic aspects. These, Walter always has and presumably always
will keep pretty well apart.
An adequate summary of the standardized seance in its ultimately
crystallized form was given in the Journal of the A:S.P.R. for
July, 1926.2
Here we are concerned with the historical and critical
aspect, and to some degree with a greater showing of details. The
1 See page 331; last paragraph of this record.
2 Page 404.
348
THE STANDARDIZED SEANCE, IN TWO PARTS 349
concentration upon the one-man sittings in the glass cabinet persisted
throughout December ;3
the sitting of January 5th was given over4
to
an experiment of another sort. But starting on January 13th, 1926,
there was a group of sittings in which Walter had on his mind nothing
more serious than the development of the standardized seance; and he
pursued this theme with success. On thet date named the Psychic was
disrobed and examined by Mrs. EJlis, and was then lashed into the glass
cabinet by several of the strange sitters in concert. There followed
ientifications of the wooden letters as described in detail on p. 343; and
the record tells us that "during this episode and immediately after it
the integrity of the wire controls was confirmed by B. Eddy." Then:
Ellis was now told to put through the small opening in the
front door a luminous doughnut, and to hold this in his hand. All
the other sitters were gathered behind Eddy in the doorway of
the room. Shortly Walter's terminal seized the doughnut and
levitated it all about in front of the cabinet as high as four feet
from the floor. Controls were examined before and after this
performance.
Walter then called for the luminous three-pound megaphone to
be put in the right front corner of the cabinet and the door to be
left open. All sitters being gathered in the doorway and accounted
for, Walter levitated the megaphone as high as the Psychic's head,
waved it about and threw it out of the cabinet with great violence.
At the end of this experiment 'Valter was heard to talk, the
voice being located about 18 inches to the east of the glass cabinet
and outside the cabinet. He had never done this before.
Tho Richardson VCO machine was now brought forth and put
on the table in front of the open door of the cabinet. Walter
woke the Psychic out of her trance. Kearns, having tested himself
the patency of the machine, put the glass tip in the Psychic's
mouth. All sitters now gathered in the doorway of the room and
were accounted for. The Psychic blew up the machine into a
position of instability. ·whereupon 'Valter whistled a beautiful
obligato to the victrola tune and then said :
"Live thou this day as if it were thy las-s-s-s-t."
"A great gray goose flew across the river.
It flew way across with its mouth full of liver."
s Chapter XXVI; in which, on December 11th and 12.th (pp. 333-4), the germ
of the standardized seance is again seen.-.J. M. B.
~ See page 342.
350 THE MARGE R Y MEDIUMSHIP
In some ways this was the most . brilliant demonstration of the
voice machine which we have had.
The lashings were now declared to be intact by all the visitors
and were then cut and the Psychic entered the open cabinet. It
was now after ten-thirty and the force was low. The P sychic's
hands and feet were accounted for and Crandon's, left wrist
accounted for with luminous bands. T he P sychic's feet were also
in contact with W eston's and Eddy's, respectively. Despite this
"\iVeston had several touches, t he bell-box was rung on the t able,
and loud raps were heard on the north wing of the cabinet.
Both in the glass cabinet and in the open cabinet "\iValter said
two sentences during the evening in good red light, the voice
apparently coming from behind and above the P sychic's head.
The standardized sitting now became the order of the next few
days; and I may give without further comment the five records
which follow:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, January 14, 1926. Present to left :
Richardson, Crandon, Mrs. Frothingham, Mrs. Richardson, Hill.
The sitting was in the glass cabinet. The Psychic was lashed in
with steel wire on her ankles and wrist s ; and her head was fastened
aloft as 1,1sual.
Trance came on almost at once and throughout the sitting it
lasted without a break. It was unusually deep with no restlessness.
V\Talter came through almost at once in cheery mood and called
attention to the d,eep trance; saying " She's dead. That's the way
I can get her 'vhen you people are here. The conditions are per-
fect ." The shelf t able was in and on it the doughnut, basket and
some wooden rings. Shortly Walter ordered all these removed and
the basket put on the floor of the cabinet, door open, doughnut in
basket . The basket was then levitat ed, danced all about, lifted
above the P sychic's head at least two feet behind her head, around
the cm·d which fastened her head to the ceiling. This was then
repeated. W alter when asked whether he used two hands to pass
the basket around the vertical cord gave no direct answer but said
he would let us see it in red light some time.
[There now ensued the identification of letters and the activa-
tion of luminous paint ; these portions of the record are given in full
on pp. 343, and 390, respectively, and we need not duplicate this
material here. ]
The luminous plaque was then asked for and put in the cabinet
on the shelf t able but it, too, had not been lighted up and so could
j
THE STANDARDIZED SEANCE, IN TWO PARTS 351
not be seen. Walter said, " So you can not see it. Very well, I
will make some lights of my own." Then areas of lights such as
Walter had made before but much bigger could be seen to the
left of the Psychic's left shoulder, with black lines here and there
across them. These moved about freely and were t aken over, on
request, to the east side of the cabinet in order that Mrs. Stinson,
who was present but not in the circle, might see. The biggest areas
were estimated at 20 x 20 x 24 inches square; it was apparently a
filmy light with no thickness. 'Valter said "that is my accom-
plice." H e ordered it to get down to the floor and so it did.
Walter said " Can't you see a profile? " Later he asked us to
see a " little figure." ' Ve thought we might but it was a strain
on the imagination. These "ghost lights" apparently did not
reflect on the glass sides of the cabinet. At the end of it Walter
said, " Wait till you see this kind of light six feet t all. I will
make that one hair on the Judge's [Hill's] head stand up straight."
Throughout the sitting there was much levitation of small
megaphone, of basket, and of doughnut, thrown in as it were by
'Valter as an incidental to other phenomena.
The record of the basket action, in the second paragraph of the
above document, deserves passing comment. It is self-evident that we
have here either a complete delusion of the sitters or a striking instance
of genuine telekinesis; that with the Psychic bound as she was, con-
tinuous travel of the basket around and around the cord joining her
neck to the ceiling is impossible on any basis of fraud. It is not always
the case that a circumnavigatory telekinesis is necessarily valid, but
in the present instance there are no circumstances permitting escape
from this necessity.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, January 18, 1926. Present to left:
Dennett, Crandon, Morse, :Miner. Mrs. Stinson present, not in
the circle. Glass cabinet. The Psychic was tied as to extremities
and head by the visitors, who declared the controls to be absolute.
Trance came on within a minute and Walter spoke in loud voice
and whistled with unusual vigor. All phenomena of the evening
were especially strong, doubtless explained by the fact that Den-
nett is more or less mediumistic. All other sitters having gathered
in the doorway, Dennett sat in front of the glass door of the
cabinet and put through the hole thereof the luminous doughnut.
After a few minutes it was apparent to all that the doughnut had
been taken from D ennett's hands. It levitated all over the cabinet
and then was put out through the right-hand arm-hole.
352 THE MARGE RY MEDIUMSHIP
Next the large luminous megaphone was put in the cabinet and
under the same conditions this was levitat ed all over the front of
the cabinet and high above the Psychic's head. Similarly the small
basket with luminous paint on its handle was taken by Walter from
Morse's hand and then levitated all about.
[There now ensued the letter identifications of p. 344, which we
need not cover twice.]
Numerous lights were made by W alter to dance all about in
the cabinet in front of the Psychic.
The P sychic was then allowed to come out of her trance and
the VCO machine was brought into action. Mrs. Stinson went
downstairs. Morse held his hand over Crandon's mouth, Dennett
put the glass tip in the Psychic's mouth, then all stood back.
'Walter proceeded to whistle and joke and talk and recited poetry,
ending up with " Tell this to the slippery, slithery scientists: ' Live
thou this day as though it were thy la-s-s-s-t'." During this time
the luminous floats were 14 inches apart in disequilibrium, a very
st riking and successful proof of the independence of Walter's voice
from the anatomy of the P sychic.
W e then moved over to the open cabinet and brought forth
the SA bell-box. First Morse and then Miner lifted the box and
turned 360 degrees with it, the box ringing irregularly and inter-
mittently while they did so.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, i anuary 21, 1926. Present to left:
Richardson, Crandon, Miss Ball, Dudley, Hill. The Psychic
was lashed in the cabinet with steel wires as to ankles and wrists
and with leather collar and rope for head. Walter came through ·
shortly in cheery mood and almost at once directed Dudley and
Miss Ball to change seats. H e seemed to like Miss Ball and was
soon calling her Maddy.
The P sychic was in deep trance almost at once and Walter
directed that all the sitters but Miss Ball collect in the back of
the room while Miss Ball passed through the opening in the door
a luminous doughnut. This she did. After a few passes W alter
took it away from her and levitated it all about the front of the
cabinet and then put it out through the easterly side opening.
The next experiment was the levitation of the large three-pound
luminous megaphone from a position on the floor in front and to
the right of the P sychic, all over and about within the cabinet,
and finally outside of it, where it was thrown violently on the
floor. W alter now did levitation of the luminous basket contain-
ing the doughnut, lifting it from a shelf placed in front of the
I
THE STANDARDIZED SEANCE, IN TWO PARTS 353
Psychic, waving it all about, most of the time in a horizontal
position.
[There next ensued the letter identifications of p. 344, under
Miss Ball's supervision; and as on the few preceding dates, we
avoid duplication by omitting part of the record here.]
The Psychic now came slowly out of trance and Richardson's
VCO machine was put in position on the table in front of the
Psychic. Miss Ball, having determined that the machine was in
working order and that the tubes were patent, put the tube in
Psychic's mouth in red light. vVe all then retired to the back of
the room and the roll was called to prove it. The Psychic now
blew up the machine to a position of disequilibrium and then Walter
proceeded to laugh, whistle and talk freely for about thirty-five
seconds, ending up with:
"Live thou this day as though it were thy 1-a-s-s-s-t-t." This
test was perfect. The voice was never louder.
Walter now directed us to have a very dim red light which
really gave very little illumination, but Walter kept referring to
it as " Now we are having phenomena in red light." We neverthe-
less look on the episode as encouraging us to believe that he .will
work towards red light. The red light was now turned on half
strength and he did excellent levitation of the large megaphone,
talking freely also in the red light. These phenomena mark dis-
tinct advances.
Walter now directed Mrs. Richardson to go down stairs and
bring up the xylophone which is used for a dinner gong and she
did so. It was put on the shelf in front of the Psychic in trance
with the haminer alongside. Walter began to play it almost imme-
diately, striking clear definite intentional notes. Miss Ball tried
to hold everybody's hands at once. Then the door of the cabinet
was closed and locked by Miss Ball and Walter still went on play-
ing the instrument freely.
On request, Miss Ball put her nose in the doughnut on the
shelf in front of the Psychic and Walter caressed her head and
neck and then on her request made a second attempt and pulled
her hair hard enough to hurt her.
The Psychic now came out of her second trance and we moved
to the old cabinet. Here in full red light Walter allowed Miss Ball
twice to pick up the bell-box and as she turned around a complete
circle, standing erect and holding the bell-box in her hands, the bell-
box each time rang intermittently.
354 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Sitting at 10 Lime Street , J a1iuary 23, 1926. Present to left:
Holmes, Richardson, Crandon, Hill, Mrs. Baker. Sitting in the
glass cabinet. Holmes made, watched or examined the application
of all 'vires and of the collar strap. H e conducted the Psychic
into the seance room and after all extremities were fastened to
his satisfaction he applied lead seals to the ends of all wires.
Walter came through p romptly, the Psychic being in deep
trance. He greeted the newcomers and the rest of us. After a
time spent in talk he directed Holmes to hold the luminous dough-
nut in through the opening in the closed front door. This was
done by Holmes's left hand while he kept his right in contact with
the P sychic's left hand ; Mrs. Baker was in contact with the
Psychic's right hand. Walter did the levitation of the doughnut,
taking it from Holmes's hand and carrying it all over the front
half of the cabinet and finally dropped it to the floor. It was
picked up and the experiment repeated and after good levitation
he then put it out through the right-hand opening.
T~.e large luminous three-pound megaphone was next put, by
Holmes, in the right front corner of the cabinet and Walter pro-
ceeded to levitat e it with door of cabinet closed. Then on request
of Holmes it was repeated with the door of the cabinet open,
Holmes having, at the time of the levitation from the floor, tactual
control of the P sychic's two feet and left hand, Mrs. Baker at the
time of the levitation also having tactual control of the P sychic's
right hand, all wire lashings of course being as above described
in addition. Walter then did levitation of the small basket with
three luminous markers on the handle. Each piece of apparatus
was put in the cabinet after passing through Holmes's hands to
rule out the possibility that they were attached to strings or wires.
In the dark Holmes then took a double handful of large wooden
letters and put them on the shelf in front of the Psychic. W alter
proceeded to throw out three of these letters one at a time, naming
each one as he did so; namely, T, 8, and C. Each cognition being
correct.
All apparatus was now removed and the Psychic was allowed
to come out of trance by 'iValter. Richardson's VCO machine was
brought forth, and the pipe was handed to Holmes who found it
patent and in working order. He then put the glass tip into the
pipe, he having had the tip in his possession throughout the seance.
All sitters now moved to the back of the room. Holmes put the
tip into the Psychic's mouth and put out the light. A roll-call
was taken of all present who were found to be behind Mrs. Baker
and Holmes. The Psychic then blew up the machine to a state
I
I
THE STANDARDIZED SEANCE, I N TWO PARTS 355
of disequilibrium and VValter proceeded to whistle and t alk, and
finally recited his poem which begins : "Live thou this day as if
it were thy 1-a-s-s-s-t-t." Then V\Talter asked Holmes what he
should whistle. Holmes replied, "A hymn: Onward Christian Sol-
dieTs." \~Thereup o n ·walter whistled that piece and then recited
his parody on it beginning :
"Onward P sychic soldiers, marching as to war,
\Vith the cross of science proudly borne before."
The t est last ed forty seconds. The luminous markers remammg
fully fourteen inches different in level. At the end of that time
the light was turned on, Holmes removed the tip from the Psychic's
mouth and immediately t ested the tube to see if it were in working
order. No criticism was noted.
The luminous doughnut was put on the shelf in front of the
Psychic. Holmes put his nose in the doughnut and \Valter pro-
ceeded to caress his hair.
\Vith Walter's approval we now moved to the old cabinet and
\Valter instructed Holmes to pick up the box. As he did so it rang
intermittently and Holmes standing turned around 360 degrees,
the bell-box continuing to ring intermittently until he put it down.
This was now repeated with Mrs. Bal<er holding the box and as it.
rang intermittently she walked towards the windows, 14 feet away
from the Psychic; a beautiful and continuous performance.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, .January 24, 1926. Present to left:
Ridgway, Hodges, Crandon, Rodenburg, Foss, Mrs. Hodges, Adler,
Dr. and Mrs. Brown, J. H. Brown, Mrs. Stinson. The P sychic
was lashed in the glass cabinet by the newcomers, who declared the
controls to be perfect . \Vith deep trance \Valter levitated the
doughnut, the big megaphone, the basket and then went on to
identify the wooden letters. H e got mixed on two, confusing D
and 0 . The interest ing part of it is that the outline of the hole
in both was an identical octagon. H e mixed a C and a G also.
Six others were correct. H e then proceeded to use the VCO machine
with brilliant success beginning and ending in the red light. We
then moved to the old cabinet and Walter proceeded to ring the
bell-box intermittently in the red light while it was in the hands
of Ridgway and Mrs. Hodges, r espectively, while they turned
around 360 degrees. Ridgway is tall and held the box at least
seven feet in the air.
The seance of January 23d, above, marks the climax of control
to this dat e. The procedure here permitted Holmes and Mrs. Baker
356 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
is tantamount to s.imultaneous use of the old personal and the new
mechanical control. A certain type of skeptic is satisfied with nothing
short of this; he r equires the personal t estimony to assure him that
there is no trick of escape from the mechanical controls, and the
mechanical control to assure him that there is no release from the per-
sonal control and no error in its reporting. We shall meet this skeptic
again and again in the later history of the mediumship; so it will be
of importance to bear in mind that his viewpoint has already been
met, and by sitters whose detachment from the case and whose per-
sonal honesty cannot be questioned or improv~d upon.
Standardized sittings which require no particular discussion and
no full reporting were given on numerous subsequent dates. Some of
them will be referred to in some detail in other chapters, in connection
with striking presentations of particular phenomena. For the present
purpose we may complete the record by tabulation. The r eader who
seeks fuller information of the sitters present is of course referred
to the chapter in the second volume giving this information.
Feb. 3d : D (doughnut), M (megaphone) and B (basket) levita-
tion, letters, VCO; no record of responsibility for wiring; letters
handled by Howard. In old cabinet: SAB (Scientific American bell-
box), activation of luminous paint.5
Feb. 4th: D, B and M levitation, letters, VCO; lashing "by the
visitors without aid or assistance "; letters handled by Gerald and
identified under continuous tactual control of the Psychic by Gerald
and Rand. SAB, activation (in old cabinet; this will be clear in the
following entries and will not again be specified).
:Feb. 19th : letters, B and M levitation, VCO, activation (all in
glass cabinet) ; no record of responsibility for lashing; letters handled
by De Wyckoff.
Feb. 21st: letters, B and M levitation, VCO; lashing by Pierson
and letters handled by Pierson. SAB.
The seance of February 22d led to the production of a record
entirely independent of Crandon's, and one of whose existence he has
been ignorant until he finds it here in print. While the action was in
no sense distinctive, the opportunity of presenting in parallel his record
and the other one of which I speak is not to be overlooked. It is to
be noted that ·the presence of the Smart-Aleck sitter did not interfere
at all with the production of the phenomena. It will also be noted
5 See Chapter XXXII.
THE STANDARDIZED SEANCE, IN TWO PARTS 357
that this sitter, in spite of his objectionable behavior, made a rather
more than usually satisfactory skeptic, in that he did not wait until
the next day or the next week or the next year to express his objections,
but gave them vent on the spot. In so doing, he afforded Crandon
opportunity to demonstrate that he does not wilfully withhold any
pertinent fact from his records. H e might be criticized for making
his opinion of Bullitt a part of his record; but he has conspicuously
come up to the mark by recording the failure of the phenomena to
impress this sitter. Likewise he has recorded Sherburne's damaging
discovery, even in the face of the facts that some, at least, of the other
sitters remained ignorant of it, and that Sherburne himself admitted
his belief in the unique character of his own whistling trick. W"
ith
these remarks we may pass at once to the two records for the evening,
after which the tabulation of ensuing dates will be resumed without
further comment.
We, Florizel von Reuter and his mother, Grace von Reuter,
hereby testify that we experienced a sitting with Mrs. Crandon,
known in mediumistic circles as Margery, on the night of Febru-
ary 22, 1926, in Boston, at the residence, 10 Lime Street, of
Dr. Crandon.
I, Grace v. Reuter, certify that I assisted at the disrobing
of Margery, and thoroughly examined the dressing gown in which
we wrapped her, after which I controlled her hands until she was
. led into the glass cabinet on a floor two stages higher.
There she was wired in the glass cabinet, hands and feet, so
that any movement of extremities was impossible. Her head was
bound to .~he ceiling of the cabinet by a thick rope which fastened
around her neck, so that she could not move her head without
danger of suffocation.
During the trance her hands were controlled by gentlemen
present. The room was lighted by dim red light. ·
vve were per-
mitted to examine the cabinet with an electric torch, also the room
to exclude the possibility of hidden assistants. The door was
closed and our chairs placed in front of it.
In spite of this rigid control, the following phenomena occurred:
a. Independent voice speaking, while l\1argery's voice was con-
trolled by a "voice-cut-out machine."
b. Large megaphone with illuminated ends was taised in air
and revolved.
c. Three wooden letters taken from a number of letters placed
by one member of the investigating committee on a board in front
358 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of cabinet were thrown out of the cabinet, the voice of "Walter "
naming them as they fell.
d. The medium, after removal from glass cabinet, was seated
in wooden cabinet and the bell-apparatus placed in front of her.
Room darkened, the bell rang, but was considered nothing phe-
nomenal. L ater in red light, bell rang while apparatus was lifted
in the arms of my son. During this experiment, the medium was
not bound, and her right hand was controlled by the left hand of
Dr. Crandon.
During the time that the red light was on, one could control
perfectly that the medium made no movement.
At the end of seance, bell-apparatus was examined and found
to be impervious to movements or shaking except when touched
upon the lid.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, February 22, 1926. The sitters
present were : Bullitt, von Reuter, :Mrs. von Reuter, Hill, Sher-
burne, Greene, Mrs. Greene.
The sitting was first in the glass cabinet. All the newcomers
took part in lashing the Psychic but even then the silly skepticism of
some of them made them constantly feel to see if her extremities
were still bound during the sitting.
The first experiment was with the wooden letters, placed on
the·shelf in front of the P sychic in trance. They were put there
by Bullitt. vValter quickly identified and threw out three letters.
In spite of a search of the Psychic having been made by the two
women, Bullitt was convinced that selected letters could have been
held between the knees of the Psychic and thrown out.
The next experiment was leYitation of the big megaphone which
was done beautifully; all the observers being against the doorway,
the nearest one being six feet from the Psychic.
The next experiment was with the VCO machine, all the impor-
tant parts of it being carried out by Bullitt.6
Later Sherburne,
who has practiced at the trick all his life, whistling while he had
a pipe in his mouth, was able to whistle faintly while the VCO
machine tip was in his mouth. He is the only one who has ever
been able to do it and the execution of the whistle in no way
resembled the sharp c~ear-cut notes of Walter.7
'l'he sitting then adjourned to the old cabinet and Walter rang
G von Reuter in conversation with me says this is an error; that he officiated
here.- J. M. B .
1 See pages 275, 360.
THE STANDARDIZE D SEANCE , IN T W O PARTS 359
t h.e bell-box in the red light with the box held successively by 1\Irs.
Greene and von R euter.
During the sitting \IValter several times had t o curse out Bul-
litt, who disengaged himself from his neighbor and was pawing
around in the cabinet. W alter hardly dared to bring forth his
rods because of this. Bullitt showed a mixture of ignorance of
research, and the behavior of a smart-Aleck.
Feb. 26th: L etters, M and B levitation, VCO ; no record of respon-
sibility for lashing ; letters handled by C. L. H yde. SAB, M levitation,
touches, identifications (of personal object s) .
Feb. 27th: L etters, M and B levitation, VCO; lashing mainly by
O'Brien; no record of responsibility for letters. SAB, t ouches ; with
respect to the latter the following excerpt from the record is pertinent:
Under similar strict conditions [of double control] V
Valter
pulled O'Brien's hair, and t he latter declared that he thought this
had been done by teeth. Thereupon the experiment was repeated
with O'Brien controlling not only the P sychic's left hand but also
her head ; and Mrs. Baker controlling her right hand and both
of Crandon's hands.8
Under these conditions O'Brien got a pull
at the back of his hair that made him cry out in pain.
Mar. 4th: L etters, M and B levitation, VCO; lashing " by the
men " ; letters handled by Van Arsdale. SAB, activation.
Mar. 8th: L etters, identifications, VCO ; lashing " in the usual
manner " by the visitors ; letters handled by Sawyer. SAB, activation.
Mar. 12th : Letters, B, D and M levitation, VCO; no record of
responsibility for lashing; letters handled by Bradley. SAB,
activation.
Mar. 13th : L etters, M, B and D levitat ion, VCO; lashing by Little
and Morse ; letters handled by Morse. R aps.
Mar. 22d: Letters, M levitation, VCO ; lashing by Swift and
Baker ; letters handled by Swift. SAB, activation, scales (for the
first time in a standardir.cd scancc0
) . The megaphone levitation in
the glass cabinet under wired cont rol merits the following quotation ·
from the record:
8 Her position between Crandon and 0 'Brien made specific control of Cran don 's
head superfluous; he could not have got past her with it to operate upon 0 'Brien.
-J. M . B.
n See Chapter XXXVI.
360 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Next, with the door [of the glass cabinet] closed, he lifted the
heavy luminous megaphone. It took much force to do this, as it
got stuck between the medium and the wall of the cabinet. W'hile
it was up in the air moving about like a great fish, one of the men
sitters was in contact with each of the Psychic's hands, the door
of the cabinet was closed, and Crandon was adequately controlled.
Mar. 23d: Letters, B, D and M levitation, VCO; lashing by Davis
and Winslow; no record of handling of letters. SAB, scales. It was
at this seance that Davis found it possible partly to beat10
the head
control that had been in use to that date. Following his demonstra-
tion, the seance of March 26th, in spite of its restricted personnel,
was of a double importance. It saw the first trial of two innovations-
one designed to meet Davis's discovery, the other to eliminate the possi-
bility uncovered by Sherburne on February 22d.11
We may let the
record speak for itself, referring the reader to page 275 for a full
description of the remodelled glass tip for the VCO machine:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, March 26, 1926. Present to left:
Mrs. Stinson, Crandon, the Psychic. This sitting was to try out
two things: First, the new glass tip so arranged as to fill com-
pletely the orifice of the lips and thus make it impossible for the
middle hole through which the machine is blown up to be anywhere
in the mouth orifice except the middle; and, second, to test out
Walter's cognition and levitation in the glass cabinet with the
head controlled by a cord running from the collar back horizontally
to a screw bolt in the back panel of the cabinet.
The Psychic having been lashed as usual but with the new head
control as written above, 'Valter proceeded not only to name cor-
rectly and levitate unknown letters on the shelf in front of the
Psychic, but also to levitate and name letters correctly from a
basket on the floor of the cabinet.
The VCO machine with the new glass tip was now used. The
machine was blown up and Walter proceeded to talk and whistle
freely. He whistled " Old Black Joe" on request and then, when
asked to recite some of his last poem, he modified it by saying:
" Live thou this day as though you had a past."
There had been at one sitting a lawyer, Sherburne, who for many
years, as a chronic joke on his friends, had developed the ability
to hold a pipe to one corner of his mouth and whistle with the other
10 See pa.ges 332, 345.
11 See pages 275, 358.
THE STANDARDIZED SEANCE, IN TWO PARTS 361
corner. There is probably not another man in the next ten thou-
sand who could do this, but he said: "I can only do it by putting
your glass tip in the extreme corner of my mouth, with the end
against the side of my tongue. If you could make a tip, the orifice
of which is maintained in the middle of my mouth, you have me
beaten."
Sitting closed at 9:15 P.M. after Walter had thrown four baskets
all over the place in excessive good spirits.
The seances immediately following the above may be disposed of. by
tabulation of the bare essentials:
Mar. 27th: letters, M levitation, identification (of personal
objects), VCO; no record of responsibility for lashing but it is evident
to one familiar with Lime Street routine that a large share in this
would be assigned Overstreet; letters handled py Overstreet. SAB,
scales, activation.
Mar. 30th: lette1;s, B and M levitation, identification, VCO; lash-
ing by Johnston, Macintosh and Furman; letters handled by Eddy.
SAB, scales.
Apr. 1st: letters, B and M levitation, identifications, VCO; no
record of responsibility for lashing or letters. SAB, scales.
Apr. 6th: B levitation, letters; no record of responsibility for lash-
ing or letters. SAB, scales.
w·~ come now to four standardized seances in connection with
which the recording is on an entirely different basis from that met
in those of the current chapter. Alike on this ground, and to provide
a pause for survey of the exact development attained by the standard-
ized seance at this date, we may terminate the present chapter here
and give a new head to the four evenings in question. But before we
come to these evenings, in Chapter XXXIV, we must bring certain
other aspects of our story more nearly up to date, so that the chrono-
logical sequence may not suffer too much in the interests of the topicaL
CHAPTER XXX
A Distinguished Sitter and His Reaction
By the Editor
John H aynes H olmes is pastor of the Community Church in New
York; and I think all the other Unitarian and non-denominational
clel·gymen of the metropolis would gladly echo the statement that of
their number he is easily the most famous. H e is likewise one of the
editors of Unity, the Unitarian weekly. His attitude toward psychical
research and Spiritualism has always been one of interest, but an
interest which must be recognized as a very one-sided one. It had
impelled him to keep up with the published r eports of the case; and in
r esponse to .Hoagland's Atlantic article it had moved him to an edi-
torial, of which the following extract completely characterizes his
outlook upon the subj ect:
If anything could be definite and final, this is it. Margery, like
every other medium ever adequately investigated, is consciously or
unconsciously a fraud. T o us this is an ineffable, an indescribable
r elief. If any medium ever proved his case, we should fall into
despair indeed. F or if the dead have no better occupation than
tipping tables and ringing bells, if they have no higher mentality
than that revealed in t he communications vouchsafed us by the
seances, then we do not want to die.
F allowing the appearance of this editorial, Holmes found himself
involved in two exchanges of correspondence. The one was with Pro-
fessor Keith, who replied t o the editorial in a lengthy letter seeking to
instruct Holmes in the generalities of psychical research. His r eply
was p retty cocky ; for instance, it contained the sentence :
My mind is at least closed t o the extent that I shall never take
the trouble to read anything further about Mme. Paladino, and in
the same way I shall never waste another moment of time on
Margery.
P rofessor Keith's reply to this letter pursued the matter quite relent-
lessly, and in the meantime Holmes had had some light from another
source ; so that when he published, in Unity for March 1st, 1926, his
362
A DISTINGUI SH E D SITTE R AND HIS R EACTION 363
entire correspondence with her, he did so rather by way of recording
a liberalization which his viewpoint had undergone; and he signalized
this liberalization particularly by means of a footnote to the above
sentence, in these words :
I am ready to withdraw this stat ement as unfair. I shall keep
an open mind t oward Margery until at least my own first -hand
experience can guide me.
In the meantime, the second conespondence referred to above was
well under way, between Holmes and Crandon. The latter had seen
the November 6th editorial, and had at once been struck by the possi-
bility that if the writer thereof could be persuaded t o gain some first-
hand knowledge of the subj ect , his strength of mind was such that he
would not be afraid or ashamed t o alter even so emphatic a published
viewpoint . The extreme wort hwhileness of an attempt to bring about
such an alteration led Crandon to write H olmes, inviting him to attend
a seance. The p roposal was at first rebuffed in much the spirit of
the above quotat ion from the H olmes-Keith letter ; but the simultane-
ous progress of his correspondence with Crandon and Professor Keith,
plus his own native intelligence and fairness, made him see that this
attitude was too radical. There remained some ver y concrete doubts
in his mind: such, for inst ance, as the question whether he was expected
t o report his observations as absolute facts, or merely as fact s within
his best knowledge. Further correspondence with Crandon cleared
these points up ; Crandon's very sane attitude toward the W alter
personality appealed to him; and the upshot was that he attended his
first Margery seance on J anuary 23rd, 1926.1
In the interval, he had
put himself through an intensive course of reading in the attempt to
cat ch up on the favorable side of the p ublished discussion. In par-
ticular, he was impressed by the M . H. V. pamphlet. His first seance
was not his last ; but a chronological pursuit of his contact with the
case requires t hat we set down next parts of an editorial which he wrote
after his first visit t o Lime St reet , and which appeared in Unity for
March 8th, 1926. R eferring to his previous st atement and then to
M . H. V., he says :
After reading this pamphlet we feel in honor bound to st ate to
our readers that , in our judgment, it opens up the whole question
once again and thus complet ely discredits our previous editorial
1 See page 354.
364 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
statement. Margery has not been proved a fraud. On the con-
trary, the explanation of her marvelous performances o:u the ground
of fraud seems to have completely broken down. The reality of
what she is doing under strictest control is established, and the
spirit hypothesis is one which must be at least considered. In say-
ing this, we are shaking the convictions of a life-time. But we are
interest ed in convictions only as they are consist ent with truth, and
truth is what we want. Incidentally, thanks to the courtesy of
Dr. Crandon, we are ourselves having sit tings with l\llargery, and
thus seeing things for ourselves. For the first time we are witness-
ing phenomena which are impressive. VVhat they mean we are not
prepared to say, but our mind, like our eyes, is wide open.
One cannot sufficiently praise the candor and courage of this state-
ment. Holmes's attitude toward the convictions of a life-time shines
with particular brilliance in contrast with McDougall's.2
Holmes is a very busy man, and cannot get to Boston save at rare
intervals. Ever since January, 1926, whenever he is in or near Boston
he makes a point of getting to L ime Street for one or more seances ;
and his name recurs several times in the list of sitters. Nor has he
shunned the burden of public and private support of the mediumship.
Following the above editorial, he had a letter from Prince, imploring
him not to "commit " himself until P rince had had an opportunity to
inform him about the case; and attempts to drag him out by the coat-
tails were also made in the name of Houdini and others. He has not
consented to be dragged; without any display of prejudice pro or con
he continues his interest in the phenomena, and his imperviousness to
extraneous considerations such as p ublic favor or private scandal.
2M. M., p. 476.
CHAPTER XXXI
Another Committee
By the Editor, and from the Records
At some risk of repeating what has been said in Chapter XVI, we
must now turn back to survey the situation created by my " official"
seances of 1925; first of all taking account of my own viewpoint as
brought into this program. My contact with the Margery case had
been unique in more ways than I can conveniently catalog. VVhen I
was introduced to it in November, 1923, I was a comparative newcomer
in psychical resear ch. I carried a large presumptio~ of general sci-
entific competence, while being obviously free from any fixed ideas about
the generalities of psychical phenomena. 'iVith r eference to the par-
ticularities of this case I had equally clean hands, having been a total
stranger to the medium and to all of he1· friends. From that date to
the August sittings in 1925, I enjoyed more seances,' a greater variety
of phenomena, and an incomparably better opportunity for extra-
seance observation of the Psychic and her immediate family and friends,
than any other person whose initial qualifications in the three respects
just mentioned could by any possibility be compared with mine. The
very fact that the fraudulence of the mediumship cannot be main-
tained without giving me the position of accomplice in the seance room
and press-agent outside it is ample evidence of all this. And this
unique exposure to the mediumship has entirely convinced me of its
validity.
A double duty is accordingly imposed upon me in my further con-
tacts with the case. I must endeavor to obtain proof of validity which
shall make the same appeal to the absentee critic as to the observer
present through a long series of sittings: At the same time I must seek
for all possible data on the precise nature of the phenomena, the· pre-
cise conditions under which they do or do not occur, the psychic
modus operandi, and the underlying prime causes. And prosecuting
these two aims more or less simultaneously, it must be evident that I
may meet complete defeat in the one direction while scoring a con-
"picuous success in the other. This was in fact what had happened to
me during the 'summer of 1925. In the evidential phase my enter-
365
366 THE MAR GER Y MEDIUMSHIP
prise had been a failure ; in its collat er al scientific phase it had been a ·
distinct and altogether worth-while success.
N ow there had been, and in the nature of the case ther e could be,
no definite plans as to the duration of my official study of the medium-
ship, or the number of sittings t o be given me. These factors neces-
sarily had to depend upon the course of events as we went along. There
must, however, come a time at which we shall wish to pause and look
behind us with the surveying eye; to ask ourselves how we are coming
along; and particularly to decide whether we shall stop or go on. The
vehicle through which all this was done was a r eport rendered by me
to the R esearch Committee of the Society's Trustees, dat ed D ecember
lOth, 1925. In this I said :
I call p articular attention t o the fact that no consecutive pro-
gram was followed out. I had drawn up a statement of intentions,
in great detail, which gave major place to examination of the
t elekinetic phenomena of the mediumship. This program was fol-
lowed at the first three sittings, at which I had substantial direc-
tion of the procedure, t o such degree that I did numerous things
the use of which Cr andon could not see, or to which he was more or
less actively opposed. Thereafter, ''ralter's or Crandon's will was
insidiously substituted for mine, in a way which I could never quite
put my finger upon for purposes of effective r esistance. The up-
shot is that my r ecords of these sittings must be taken as det ached
documents. As such I feel that they ar e important and a justi-
fication of the work done. But of course my orderly progress with
the case was defeat ed, and I feel that nothing was added to the
pre-existing proofs of validity; with the exception of the independ-
ent voice, which st ands better than it did by virtue of the work
done with Richardson's machine. This, however, is only incidentally
connect ed with my study of the case, and would have been done
as well without my cooper ation as with it.
The r eport went on to discuss matters of personnel. It had been
hoped to secure for me adequate academic or t echnical aid, from p er-
sons ·who were·not open to the obj ection of prior contact with the case.
The summer season was the maj or factor in defeating this hope. Ques-
tions of control, of arrangement of sitters, of illumination, etc., were
discussed, and recommendation made for future procedure. Then I
dealt with the matter of investigational r ange, in the following t erms :
Of all investigators t o whom the case has been exposed since
the beginning I am in the unique position of not having any urge
I
)
ANOTHER COMMITTEE 367
toward the rapid promulgation of final conclusions of some sort.
I have therefore been the only one who can study the case care-
fully and slowly, seeking no undue speed toward any particular
end, but simply publishing my r ecords of observed facts as I go
along.
In every case where an investigator or a group of investigators
has felt the urge towa rd a conclusion of some sort, their published
conclusion has been unfavorable. It was so with the Harvard
group of 1923, with the Scientific American Committee, with the
McDougall-vVorcester examination of late 1924, with Dingwall,
with the Code-Hoagland ent erprise. It is clear that this is inher-
ent; nobody can rapidly reach and publish a favorable conclu-
sion. The facts are too new and strange; the investigator must
have a long time to accustom himself to them and to satisfy him-
self that there is some hope of an orderly explanation for them,
before he can be expect ed to give a public pronouncement favor-
able to them.
Published unfavorable conclusions are of no permanent sci-
entific merit save as they turn out to be in line with the ultimate
facts. They are, however, here and now a serious embarrassment to
me. They disturb the mediumship and interfer e with its results.
They set the public mind against the mediumship and against our
work in general, thus setting us back in the sense of getting public
credit for our results. This public discr editing of our field and
our cases makes it more difficult than it should be for me to get
adequate assistance at the points wher e my work impinges on
other fields of science.
Further, I find that \iValter and Crandon are not able to keep
my work separate from that of other p eople who are investigating
the case simultaneously. Three times I have gone to Boston for
sittings by appointment, to have my investigation merged into
Dr. Richardson's without my prior knowledge or my consent. I
have no criticism of Dr. Richardson's aims or of his program.
But I was doing something different. If it is impossible for Walter
to follow two distinct lines of r esearch at the same time, in two
separate series of sittings, this is an argument, not for dealing with
two investigations as though they were one, but for trying only
to deal with one.
PM·tly in the text of this report and partly through personal in-
t erview, I put before the Trustees at this time my opinions as to the
way in which the Societ y should proceed in its future work with the
Margery case. I was under no handicaps in my pursuit of the sci-
368 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
entitle problems involved; I felt it profitable to go to Boston whenever
these called me there. But in the attempt to determine whether or no
the mediumship were susceptible of a demonstration of validity that
would meet the standards held out by intelligent skepticism, I was
doubly handicapped. I was handicapped in the seance room by my
friendship with the Crandons, as the report set out in detail. I was
handicapped out of the seance room by my known conviction of valid-
ity, which in my case as with a long line of distinguished predecessors
from Crookes down, is popularly distorted into a prejudice toward
validity. So on every ground, it seemed best to confine my future work
with Margery to the scientific aspects; and for the Society either to
abandon the t ask of proving here and now, to the man in the street,
whether the mediumship were valid or not, or fo r it to seek a new agency
through which to attempt this proof. Such new agency might of
course be an individual or a comrnittee; all that was necessary was
that, on the part of individual investigator or of committee members,
there exist an open mind, an absence of recorded judgment, and a com-
plete freedom from prior acquaintance with the Crandons.
"'VVhile my report was in preparation, I had discussed all this with
individuai Trustees, and there was a unanimous feeling that further
effort should be made for the publishable verdict. Before the report
was submitted the matter had progressed to the point where the
nucleus for a new Committee had been found, in the person of Dr.
Henry Clay McComas, P rofessor of Experimental Psychology at
Princeton. He seemed in every way eligible; he was distinctly inter-
ested; and he thought it probable that he could make acceptable recom-
mendations for filling out the Committee. In the interim he went to
Boston for a preliminary contact with the case. Crandon's record of
this occasion (December 15th, 1925) is the only one available:
Using the glass cabinet , the Psychic was wired in and fastened
in the usual way by McComas. VValter came through promptly
and McComas, after introduction, immediat ely asked if he could
put his hand over the Psychic's mouth. To this ' Valter replied,
" Some time but not tonight." He then proceeded to ask ' Valter
about ' Valter's occupation and to this 'Valter replied that he was
busy under order s working on a problem of communication in order
that anyone might act as a medium. Pressed for det ails, Walter
said it was a problem in wave lengths.
vVe then proceeded to try for a sitting alone with McComas
with levitation of the doughnut within the cabinet, the other sitters
AN OTHER COMMITTEE 369
being all in the hallway. This was tried for twelve minutes with-
out r esults, the P sychic being in trance. This was the p eriod of the
cat amenia. and it was physiologically improper t o sit. N everthe-
less 'i\Talter now proceeded to use Richardson's VCO machine with
all of us st anding in the doorway. McComas t est ed the pat ency
of the tube and p ut it in the Psychic's mouth. Sever al times her
mouth got tired and he had to t ake it out for a r est , but finally
the float s wer e blown up and vValter recited his p oem:
" Live thou this day as though it were thy last "-and whistled
at great length. The whole demonstration last ed a minute and a
half. McComas then took the tip from t he Psychic's mouth, test ed
it and observed that it was patent and in working order.
' i\Talter now directed everyone to go down st airs except R ich-
a rdson and with him had a p rivat e conference. On r eassembling
vValter instruct ed R ichardson to hold the doughnut within the cab-
inet , whereupon ' i\Talter performed t he general free levitation of the
doug hnut in the cabinet. One of the r easons of the difficulty tonight
is app ar ently the fact that vValter had to use teleplasm derived
from the right ear of the Psychic.
The P sychic was now released from her lashings by McComas
who found all controls as they were before the sitting. ~Te now ad-
journed to the old cabinet and after some talk ' Valter allowed
McComas to pick up the Scientific American bell-box, · turn 360
degrees and put it down again. This was r ep eat ed, the second
time being very well done with irregular intermittency of the
rmgmg.
' Vhile Cr andon was out at the t elephone and under conditions
of double control, M cComas r eceived sever al touches.
As a resident of Baltimore, McComas is acquainted with members
of the J olms Hopkins faculty. ' i\Then it came to naming his colleagues
for a Margery inquiry, he passed over his immediat e associat es of
the Princet on faculty and nominat ed Dr. Robert ,V. 'i\T
ood, Professor
of. Physics in the Baltimore institution, and Dr. Knight Dunlap , its
Professor of P sychology. The form er gentleman, p articularly, is
known as one of the leaders in his field for America. N othing specific
was known by me or any of my Trust ees r egarding qualifications or
disqualifications of ' Vood and Dunlap for psychical r esear ch ; they
were accept ed by the Societ y on McComas's judgment and say-so. The
~ntire group went to Boston in lat e J anua ry, 1926; and on the 26th
there was held an entirely informal seance for the purpose of intro-
370 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
clueing them to the medium and the mediumship. Crandon's record
was the only one made :
This was the first meeting of the Commission of Inquiry of the
A.S.P .R. to study the phenomena of the Margery mediumship.
This meeting, however , was only for getting acquainted and was
not part of the official study of the case. 'iValter came through
p romptly, but slightly acid ; partly reflecting the P sychic's strain
and fear of a new Committee and partly because the company did
not t alk freely. The sitting was held in t he old cabinet.
It was quickly noted that ' i\Tood could only hear in part the
whispered voice of ' IValter, and Dunlap heard nothing. Both these
gentlemen admitted it, Wood saying he could hear the lightest
'vhisper better than the rather strident whisper, and Dunlap say-
ing that he had not heard a whisper since childhood.
~Talter now proceeded t o work with the Scientific Amei·ican
bell-box. H e instructed Dunlap to pick it up in the red light and
he did so, turning round 360 degrees and then putting it back ;
the bell rang intermittently during this time. On a repetition of
the experiment Dunlap held the box aloft between his eye and the
light, Dunlap's back being towards the P sychic. The bell rang
intermittently and finally stopped and then, while still in that posi-
tion, Dunlap asked VValter to ring it again and he did so. This
had never been done before.
'iValter then made the unlighted doughnut glow two or three
times, and then after we lighted it up he moved it about on the
t able more or .less. The Psychic was in trance throughout.
The necessity of some sort of wo rking agreement as to what may
and what may not be done.by a group of investigators strange alike
to the case and to Crandon is evident; and such agreement is always
exacted by Crandon of a new investigat or or a new Committee. In the
present instance, the following document, which seems entirely self-
explanatory, was worked out between the several parties and signed
prior to the first official seance :
CONVENTION between Dr. L. R . G. Crandon and The Com-
mission of Inquiry of the American Societ y for P sychical R e-
sear ch organized to study the phenomena of the "Margery "
Mediumship.
1. The Commission shall be represented by a chairman who
alone shall be authorized to speak for the Commission in official
contact with the case and in t he conduct of the investigation.
ANOT HER COMMITTEE 371
2. The sittings shall t ake place in Boston but not all necessarily
.at 10 Lime Street.
3. Sittings are subj ect to cancellation when the Psychic's health
makes it necessary.
4. Dr. Crandon or Dr. Mark ,V. Richardson must be present at
.all sittings. Dr. Crandon shall not be excluded without his own
consent, but such consent shall not be arbitrarily withheld against
the wishes of the Commission.
5. N o psychic structure shall be touched or interfered with
in any way and no light of any hue shall be turned on during the
.sitting except with the consent of the control ('Valter). If either
of the conditions of this paragraph is broken, the whole investi-
gation shall cease at once and the episode shall be considered an
admission that the Commissioners have broken their word as gen-
tlemen and scientist s.
6. The complet e narrative of observational notes of each sitting,
dictaphonic if possible, signed by all present, shall be handed
to Dr. Crandon before another sitting t akes place. Fraud or
suggestion of fraud in the production of phenomena which does
not appear in these notes shall be deemed non-existent and this is
considered an acknowledgment of that condition by the Commis-
sioners. But the Commissioners are under no obligation to include
in such notes any st at em ent of comment or explanatory hypotheses
.as to the true nature of observed phenomena. Fraud observed
and noted in the r ecord of any sitting shall be deemed to open the
r ecord of all previous sittings as to the p ossibility of unobserved
fraud having occurred in such sittings.
7. Dr. 'crandon shall have a copy of every photograph taken
and he shall hold the copyright ther eof. Dr. Crandon, however ,
agrees that the Commission shall have the right to publish the
photographs in their report .
8. N o news of publication of the progress of the study shall
be issued except with the consent of every one involved. At the
close of the study Dr. Crandon shall have the privilege of publish-
ing the notes but only in their entirety unless the Commission does
so within a r easonable time.
9. Use of the word Walter meaning " the control " and such
expressions as "V\Talter 's hand " and "Walter's t erminal" etc.
shall not be deemed by any of the contracting p arties an admission
as to the nature and structure of the mechanism so r eferred to.
10. It is underst ood that every aid and facility reasonably
possible shall be afforded the Commission to pursue its study; sug-
gestions made by the Commission as to the place of sitting, varia-
372 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
tions of control, adaptations and use of apparatus, arrangement of
seance room paraphernalia, sitt ers, etc., shall be complied with so
far as possible, and the reasons for refusing such compliance shall
be made part of the narrative or observational notes if required
by the Commission.
11. All matters in dispute shall be settled by a body consist-
ing of two trust ees of the A.S.P.R. and Dr. Mark vV. Richardson.
January 27, 1926.
(Signed) H. C. McCoMAS, Chairman
KNIGHT DUNLAP
R. W. WooD
L. R. G. CRANDON
The Psychic's interest s being, in Crandon's judgment, duly safe-
guarded by this document, the official seances were proceeded with.
As a measure of recording economy, a separate statement of the con-
trol conditions in the glass cabinet was made, carrying the date,
January 27th, of the first official seance. Through oversight, the
seance record proper then fails to state that these conditions obtained;
but it is clear from the separate statement that they did. This seance
record was produced by dictation to a stenographer, present in a
corner of the room with a faint red light, and a technique, new in this
mediumship, was pursued under which all the Committee members.
indiscriminately dictated, each statement in the record carrying indi-
cation of its immediate source. The general statement of control ·and
the record of January 27th follow:
The conditions of mechanical control for the first official sitting
are what we may call control by wire la,shing. It is understood
hereafter in the notes of this Commission when that descriptive
phrase is used that the contt·ol is in every detail similar to the fol-
lowing description. The expression control by ze~ire lashing is
meant and understood to be precisely as follows, throughout all
subsequent notes of this Commission.
The Psychic is clad in a single garment (kimono), stockings
and shoes. She and her garments are examined by a woman at
the request of the Commission before and after the sitting and
it is understood that if nothing of importance is discovered that
nothing need be said in these records.
In bright white light now, there are tied around the P sychic's
wrists and ankles long pieces of number three picture wire. The
part going around the limb is protected against cutting the skin
.,
AN OTHER COl\.fMITTEE 373
by rubber tubing. All knot s are eit her made, observed in the mak-
ing or t est ed by the Commission. A leather colla r is padlocked
around the Psychic's neck by a Commissioner and the key kept
in his possession.
The P sychic is now conducted by a Commissioner into the
red lighted seance r oom and there seat s herself in a W indsor chair
in the Richa rdson plate-glass cabinet . The ends of the wrist and
ankle ties are now threaded through and round fused closed-ring
eye-bolts on the floor and t hrough the sides of t he cabinet r espec-
tively. They are securely t ied, observed in the tying or inspect ed
by the Commission and t he ends threaded through American R ail-
way E xpress lead seals and sealed by a member of the Commis-
sion. H eavy twine is tied by a Commissioner to the leather collar
in knots peculiar to himself and the other end is similarly tied to
a fused eye-bolt in the roof of the cabinet. The excursion for the
feet is not over six inches. The excursion for the hands is not over
two inches ; for the head not over six inches forwards, nine inches
sideways.
At the end of the sitting again in good red light the wire lash-
ings and head control are inspect ed by the Commission and found to
be as originally made, unless st at ed to the contrary in the r ecords.
The control lashings are then cut away by a member of the Com-
miSS IOn.
McComas: At Walter's suggestion, the light was turned on and
Wood got a bag full of solid letters and Wood put a couple of
handsful of these letters upon a shelf which Crandon had placed in
the cabinet during r ed light. W ood st at es that the letters were
not identified by him when placed on the shelf.
McComas: One of the letters came forwa rd, fell at my feet and
W alter said it was the letter " K "; McComas st at ing it felt like
the figure" 4." According to Wood's wat ch, it is 9:15 P.M.
M cCO?nas: Another lett er fell to floor. ' i\Talter said it was
" 0 " and to :McComas it seemed to be " 0." Dunlap also guessed
it to be " 0" and put it in his pocket.
Dunlap: 'i\Talter says the r ed light has lit up all the luminous
spot s in the r oom.1
W ood: The letter "C" placed in the hands of Dunlap, his
hands containing the luminous disc. V
\T
alter st ates it is the letter
"C" and it is the said letter.
1 See open ref erence No. 13, Vol. 2.
374 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
M cComctS: Holding the illuminated doughnut in the palm of
left hand, placed the hand on the shelf and Walter said he gave
me the letter " S " which proved to be the true letter.
Dunlap: Holding doughnut, knuckles on shelf, \iValter gives
me the letter " U" which is correct.
M cCo'ml£8: I have Psyche's right 11and and Crandon's left hand;
Dunlap has Crandon's other hand, and Wood has Psyche's other
hand.
The letter " C" fell to the floor according to Walter.
Another letter fell to the floor which Walter said was "ZED "-
McComas having Psyche's right hand and \iVood controlling the
Psyche's left hand all the bme.
M cCornas: At 9:32 I' .M., according to Crandon, Crandon re-
moved the shelf.
Dunlap: Dunlap holding basket in front of cabinet felt a good,
strong pull on basket. Dunlap held on and Walter let go.
McComas: I have control of Psyche's right hand; Walter takes
basket and after moving it up and around, outside of cage, VValter
drops basket on the floor.
Dunlap: McComas makes the estimate that basket was raised
about 51j
2 feet, ViTood estimates about 5 feet and Dunlap less than
5 feet.
M cCornas: Just before levitation of the basket, the luminous
point nearest the cabinet disappeared on my side of the basket. I
had control of Psyche's right hand throughout the episode.
Dunlc£p: Wood estimates the basket was in levitation ten sec-
onds and Dunlap and McComas estimate less than ten seconds.
Dunlap states pull seemed to be straight in toward the cabinet.
Dunlap: During holding of basket, pulling of basket and levi-
t ation of basket, Dunlap was controlling Crandon's right hand
with h{s (Dunlap's) left hand and McComas controlled Crandon's
left hand.
M cC01nas: McComas has his left arm all around basket a:nd
cannot feel any strings or other attachments to basket and ex-
amining the 3-pound luminous megaphone can find no strings or
threads attached to it. Crandon's left hand is resting upon .Mc-
Comas' right; Dunlap controls with his left hand the right hand
of Crandon; Dunlap's left knee rests against the right knee of
Crandon; Crandon's right foot is against Dunlap's left foot and
Crandon's head is on Dunlap's shoulder.
D~mlap: Dunlap now has both of Crandon's hands.
McComas: Lifting the basket so that I held it by the top, and
biting it slightly sideways, I felt a distinct pull on the basket on
ANOTHER COMMITTEE 375
P syche's right, which levitated the basket several inches and thrust
it out of my hand.
Dunlap: McComas holding basket, he let go, it went back, came
forward, down, and up, t aps and knocks. Both of P syche's hands
were controlled during this episode.
A1cC01nrM : V\Tith door closed and locked, the key remaining in
same, McComas reached through opening in door of cabinet , levi-
t ated basket until about a foot above wooden panel of door, when
McComas distinctly felt strong pressure on basket at P syche's
right, the pressure being toward the cast . In the first effort, the
basket fell to the floor. T his was repeated and on the second effort
the basket was levitat ed at approximately a height of 5 feet and
thrown toward the east back corner of Psyche's cabinet. V
\Talter
invited McComas to enter cabinet to retrieve basket. On hands
and knees, :McComas thrust his head in as fa r as Psyche's knee on
P syche's left side. In this position, vValter hit him on the head
with the megaphone several t imes. T he megaphone was originally
on the west side.
Dunlap: Dunlap was controlling Crandon's hands, feet and
head throughout the preceding experiment.
M cC01nrM : The episode of the bask,et was repeated and basket
was thrown to the west back of Psyche as before. The basket in
this episode went back of cabinet, came fo rward, and struck cabii1et
front several times. According t o estimat e of McComas, basket
was in the air on t he level of McComas' chin while standing, ap-
proximately 30 seconds.
Wood : Cold breeze felt on left cheek.
1
11cC01nas : Megaphone now in levitation, now partly out of the
cabinet , partly towards the luminous disc on \i\Tood's head. Mega-
phone has big end pointed that way. McComas holding Psyche's
right hand ; VVoocl holding P syche's left hand. Megaphone is now
out of cabinet.
liVood: Megaphone out of cabinet , t rying to hit luminous elise
on my head ; megaphone makes repeated contact with my forehead.
T
¥ ood: Holding luminous disc at door of cabinet , luminous disc
t aken from fingers and levitated fo r 20 seconds in the cabinet.
A1cComas : I have cont rol of Psycbe's right hand. \Ve had a
complete circle while lev itation was going on.
(Signed) H. C. i\fcCoMAs,
K NIGHT D uNLAP,
R. \i\T. vVoon.
376 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The Commission's second seance was held on the following night,
J anuary 28th. The action was largely blank, and what phenomena
were obtained were preceded by a very long period of waiting. The
conditions of sitting were different from those of the first official seance.
Crandon's own record covers the action of the seance quite as well as the
one dictated by the other sitters during ·the seance ; and certain col-
lateral facts and claims it covers better. W ith the obvious reserva-
tion that the members of the Commission would not accept all these
collat eral elements, we shall then save space and get along faster with
our story by using Crandon's record :
Sitting in the old cabinet: Miss Barbero, secretary, was seated
at a table behind the cabinet with a dim r ed light by which to write.
The P sychic's wrist s and ankles were so sore from the tight wires
of the previous night that she and Crandon sat tonight with lu-
minous band controls sewed on and with the hope of getting some
of the red light phenomena of which we have had so many examples.
Trance came on almost at once but W alter did not speak for
about twenty minutes, at which time he announced that he was
going to try for visible teleplasm and asked for the luminous co-
ordinate board. This was vitalized and put on the table. During
the next hour W alter spoke but rarely and then to make fun of
Dunlap who constantly felt for the P sychic's feet, or to admonish
Wood to keep his hands still and where they belonged.
A mass giving a silhouette ext ending as far as the second inch
mark on the board was seen by all coming forth over the Psychic's
edge of the table and going back. This was accompanied by groans
suggesting labor pains. Nothing more was accomplished and "\i'Val-
t er did not say good night.
At the end of the sitting both D unlap and Wood complained
that the P sychic had held their fingers so tight that they were numb.
The P sychic seemed greatly exhausted.
About 1 :00 A.M ., the Psychic being asleep, Crandon was wak-
ened by \iValter2
and he asked W alter why he tried for teleplasm
at the second sitting with this group, who properly should not see
it until they had had many sittings. Walter replied: " I was try-
ing a little psychological experiment to see how these men would
behave. Wood during the whole sitting kept pawing about over
the abdomen and thighs of the Psychic. I did not dare bring out
the t eleplasm under these conditions. It was to stop this that the
Kid held on so tight t o Wood as t o hurt his fingers. \iVe will .
2 See open reference No. 14, Vol. 2.
ANOTHER COMl\IIITTEE 377
sit only in the glass cabinet hereafter where we will be safe from
such behavior. These men, excepting 1\llcComas, don't hear every-
thing and don't talk. The result is a heavy air of concentration
and boredom which is hard to work under. We will do the best
we can."
A catamenial reaction in the Psychic followed January 29, ten
days ahead of time; showing a physiological effect of the efforts of
this sitting.
Before this sitting, while the Psychic was down stairs, the rest
were gathered in the seance room. Wood put forward the idea
that Walter recognized the letters by the sound they made when they
struck the floor. This does not seem to be a tenable theory. The
Psychic did not hear this remark nor did anyone tell her of it.
Nevcrtheless, during the 1 :00 A.M. conversation, Walter said,
" ·what a fool idea that was of Wood's that I tell the letters by
the som)d they make on the floor. I always name them before they
hit the floor." Here is a clear-cut case of Walter's knowing some-
thing of an event in the top room of which by no chance could the
Psychic know.
Reference to page 374 will indicate how it was possible for "\Vood
to free his left hand for purposes of exploration; Dunlap sat at his
left. Inasmuch as I have done the same thing myself when the occasion
seemed to demand it,3
I am in no position to protest on general princi-
ples against 'iVood's action. Indeed, the absolute prohibition against
the investigator's use of his hands is evidently one of those things
which would be of great aid to the fraudulent medium, and the necessity
of which in a genuine case is not immediately apparent. Especially
in view of the large probability that the maintenance of the unbroken
circle is entirely a subjective factor, it seems most rash to condemn a
reasonable degree of exploration. On the other hand, our clear belief
that where the phenomena occur genuinely they are the product of a
teleplasmic machinery makes it self-evident that too much pawing about
in the vicinity of the medium might have unfortunate effects. It is
perhaps worth nothing that on the occasion cited in the preceding foot-
note, when my own pawing resulted in evidence favorable to the
medium, there was no suggestion from any of her supporters that I
was out of order; but it is equally true that my pawing was not
extremely close to her or over an extremely wide region of space. In
the absence of general principles upon which all parties may agree,
s See M. M ., p. 399.
378 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
this business of tactual exploration of the region around the medium
must be considered on its merits every time it arises. That some
adverse weight ought to be attached to the present episode may be
granted but I am equally in no doubt that Wood, in pawing about the
medium, would do so to an objectionable degree.
For the third Commission seance, held on January 30th, we may
return to the record dictated by the official sitters. The seance, de-
spite \Valter's dictum to Crandon on the morning of the 29th, was
held in the old cabinet with personal control of the Psychic; this the
record omits to state specifically.
Wood: 9:10. I am holding Margery's left hand, her left foot
is near my right foot, her knees are in contact with my right hand.
Dunlap: 9:10. I am holding Margery's right hand with my
hand, knuckle down on her leg just above the knee, her right foot
on my left foot. I have Crandon's left hand in my right and the
combined hands are resting on Crandon's left knee.
McCo1nas: 9 :10. I have Crandon's right hand and it is rest-
ing on his knee, also his head is on my shoulder and he has a
capital "C" painted on his sleeve. There is a luminous spot on
Psyche's forehead, a luminous band on each sleeve and a luminous
band on each ankle. The bell-box is on the table in the usual
position, that is to say, the platform shelves toward the west
(towa.rd Wood).
Dunlctp: 9 :15. Wood rang the bell.
TVood: 9 :25. Control very close; no manifest ations.
Wood: 9:30. Psyche stat es that the circle is not properly
·completed as my hands are touching Dunlap's. Control changed
so as to avoid contact of my hand with that of Dunlap. No sign
of trance.
Wood: 9:40. No signs of trance; no signs of anything.''
Asked Psyche if she was uncomfortable or wanted the controls
changed and she said no, she could stand it as long as we could.
Psyche laughs at this.
Wood: 9:45. Wood suggests that he and McComas change
places, which was done.
Dunlap 9:52. Psyche's right hand contracting strongly,
gripping my left hand, continuous contractions of the fingers.
M cCo1nas: 9 :53. My control at present is, my right knee
against Psyche's left knee, my left ankle against her right ankle
and my fingers around her wrist.4
1 Sic. See open reference 18, Vol. 2.---J . M. B.
ANOTHER COMMITTEE 379
W oocl: 9 :55. 'i\Tood suggested t hat the P sychic's knees be in
contact with each other and it was done. Crandon said this would
probably prevent the p rotrusion of the Psychic's tclcplasm ic rods
which arc supposed to issue from the thighs.
M cCorna8: 9 :59. The control of the two knees by my right
hand has been discontinued."
Dunlap: 10:05. Psyche breathing hard, squeezing my hand.
M cCor7
W8 : 10:07. Psyche's left ankle raised into my lap,
my right hand upon Psyche's knee and I am holding her hand.
McCo?na8: 10:17. ~Talter said," No, she isn't. Hold your
horses." My control consists in holding P syche's left hand and
P syche's feet are in my lap.
Dunlc£p: 10:17. I am holding Psyche's right hand, resting
slightly above her knee and her right foot is now on my left foot.
M cCornc£8: 10:20. Walter evidently trying to get torce
enough to do something. H e says, "I never saw such a bunch of
stiffs in all my life." He also says, "Talk about dead people;
My God!"
M cCorna8: 10:22. Some conversation between Walter and
the members of the circle. Not to be published, says ' Valter.
M cCorna8: 10:24. Margery's querulous voice said, "I am in
awful pain, don't feel good anyhow." ' Valter replied, "Nobody
gives a damn, if you ar e."
M cCorna8: 10 :26. I have both of Psyche's ankles in my lap
and her left hand in my right hand.
Dunlap: 10:26. I have Psyche's right hand in my left hand,
held upward in the air and it is moving somewhat as she twists.
M cCorna8: 10 :30. Something cold and moist slapped me on
my hand. Just a moment after1 Dunlap remarked that something
cold struck him on the hand. I have both of Psyche's ankles in
my lap.
McCo?na8 : 10 :31. My hand just came in contact with a small,
ribbed substance which was immediately removed from my hand.
I have Psyche's left hand in my right.
.McCornC£8 : 10 :31. Cold, moist subst ance on my hand again.
Dunlap: 10:31. P syche's right leg on my lap. Something
cold t apped me on the finger.
M cCorna8: 10:32. Cold, rod-like substance touched me on
thumb and immediately disappeared. Psyche's head constantly
moving. Psyche twisting and groaning. Both her ankles are now
in my lap.
5 See open reference No. 18, Vol. 2.
380 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
M cCO?nlt~: 10 :35. Psyche constantly repeats, m querulous
voice, that she does not feel good.
McComas: 10:36. Luminous doughnut is placed on the table
and between myself and the doughnut appears a dark, round-like
structure, which waves up and down. The rod-like structure has
reappeared.
McComas: 10 :37. ' Valter's voice: "Hold your horses, I will
show you in a minute."
M cCmnas: 10 :38. The rod-like structure moved the doughnut
a couple of inches toward Wood.
M cCo11WS: 10:40. Apparently, rod-like structure is lying
right across doughnut. McComas request ed Walter that it bend
to right angle. Psyche twisting and writhing as the rod moves.
Dunlap: 10 :41. Psyche moved Dunlap's hand over into con-
t act with a cold, smooth, cylindrical something.
McComas: 10 :42. Psyche reached over and pressed the back
of McComas' hand on a cold, moist substance.
M cCornas: 10 :45. McComas' hand direct ed to the subst ance,
which he holds between thumb and forefinger, made some slight im-
pression on same. It seemed like a cylindrical substance about
34 inches in diameter with a hard, bo11e-like center or axis. Just
before this instance, Psyche's voice said " I feel bad here " and
pushed my hand up to the point on this cylindrical substance.
Dunlctp: 10 :47. T he " thing" cold and smooth and soft on
my fingers. Psyche's right foot now on mine.
McComas: 10 :47. Psyche's left foot on my right foot.
M cComcts: 10 :49. The rod-like structure moved the dough-
nut.
Wood: 10 :50. Something touched my fingers again.
Dunlap: 10 :50. The "thing" picked up the doughnut m
Wood's hand and moved it around against my head.
Dunlap: 10 :51. Psyche presses my hand against " it " again.
Wood: 10:53. My hand was on the table holding the luminous
doughnut, teleplasmic rod fell in the palm of my hand, feeling like
a rigid rod covered with soft leather. It was placed between my
thumb and. finger which were holding the doughnut. I squeezed it
very hard, which produced no ill effect. The rod then slipped
through the doughnut and raised it in the air.
M cC01nas: 10:53. Psyche reached over and pulled my left
hand over and placed it upon the teleplasmic structure.
McComas: 10 :54. Released control of P syche's right hand
though the bracelet is now visible and has been visible throughout.
ANOTHER COMMITTEE 381
I now resume control of P syche's right hand. During the interval
in which I did not hold her hand, ' iVood did have her hand.
McComas: 10 :55. P syche has t aken my right hand and laid
it firmly on the "teleplasm." The "teleplasm" is now removed.
. In this case it was on her hand.
McComas: 11 :00. Both of P syche's ankles are in my lap.
While speaking, felt a touch of " teleplasm" on my little finger.
The "teleplasm" apparently against P syche's right leg, above the
knee.
Dunlap: 11 :02. Back of my hand touched by "it " again.
It is now touching my fingers.
Dunlap: 11 :04. My hand was put over and between my fingers
I felt of "it." It is cold, soft, with rigid ruler-like core. I cannot
say whether it is a single or multiple core.
McComas: 11 :05. R eceived rather sharp touch on left hand
which is resting on the table, I should judge about a foot from her
body, just the other side of P syche's two ankles.
D~mlap : 11 :07. The tcleplasmic rod picked doughnut out of
my hand, held it sever al inches above the table, moving it around.
In levitation now.
Wood : 11:07. Holding both Crandon's hands during this levi-
t ation.
McComas: 11 :09. Doughnut waving up and down, sideways;
now seems to be nearer to me. Doughnut now r esting on table.
P syche has taken right leg from my lap and put it on Dunlap's
foot.
Wood: 11:10. Doughnut st arting t o rise from t able with up-
ward movement parallel with movement of luminous band on
P syche's head.
Wood : 11 :12. Doughnut is now moving again without any
movement of P syche's head.
Dunlap: 11 :12. ' iVhile levitating, teleplasmic rod struck my
fingers. A moment ago, rod touched my fingers again.
M cComas: 11:14. Doughnut has dropped to the floor. Sev-
eral minutes levitation of doughnut.
McCornas: 11:15. At my request my hand was taken and
placed upon " teleplasmic " rod. The " t eleplasmic " rod was stand-
ing up in the air. My hand closed around it. Apparently it is
very firm with a slightly ruffled effect.
Dunlap : 11 :16. I have the rod in my hand. P syche put my
hand over and put the rod between my finger s, pushing my hand
along so that the rod pushed through my fingers several inches.
It was cold.
382 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
McComas: 11 :17. "Teleplasmic" rod touched my cheek.
Dunlap : 11:18. On cheek, scratching my ear (McComas
touching my hand), rapping me on the top of the head and on
the back of the head.
Du,nlap: 11:19. Walter rapped on the table with the tele-
plasmic rod, stating he was rapping on my head but he did not.
(Joke. )
W oocl: 11 :20. During the rapping episode, I was holding
Crandon's head in my left hand and Crandon's face was in contact
with my hand.
Dnnlap: 11 :21. During the rapping phenomena and when I
was touched with the rod on the head, I was holding Psyche's right
hand and Crandon's left hand.
McComas: 11 :21. During the time that the teleplasmic rod
was striking at Dunlap's head, Psyche's .ankles were in my lap.
One of them passed out at the time but came immediately back,
then both of them were out and came back immediately. Psyche's
body was twisting and turning constantly. P syche turned around
in her chair and was apparently over on her right thigh at the
time of the strokes upon Dunlap's head.
M cComcts : 11 :23. McComas feeling P syche fr om thigh to knee
finds tights. This search made at Crandon's suggestion.
Dunlap : 11 :23. Dunlap finds that P syche has silk bloomers
(tights) on.
McComas: 11 :25. Several times P syche's left hand slipped
through mine so that I had her wrist for a moment, but I have
always been in contact with her hand or her wrist.
D~mlap: 11 :25. I have had Psyche's right hand aU the time
as I recollect.
McComa,s: 11:26. Psyche said, "I have cramps here" and
taking McComas' hand, placed it on her abdomen at about the
umbilical r egion. McComas can feel a belt. (Dr. Crandon adds
that the Psychic is at present unwell.)
McComas: 11:30. Psyche has one foot in my lap and one foot
on the table and I have her left hand.
McComas: 11 :31. Psyche's right leg went to the floor and
came back again.. Walter's voice informs me I am a liar.
McCO?nas: 11:32. Psyche's two feet are down now resting on
my foot and on Dunlap's foot.
McComas: 11 :32. Just before Psyche came out of the trance,
she drew my hand over, placed it on her stomach, just below the
· umbilical region and it remained there for possibly 10 seconds.
McCO?nas and Dunlap: 11:33. We have broken our control.
ANOTHER COMMITTEE 383
The Stenographer (Miss Barbero) reported that she examined
and found the Psychic unwell before the sitting and found her unwell
after the sitting.
There was nausea and vomiting of the Psychic after the sitting.
Sitting closed at 11 :35.
(Signed) . H. C. McCoMAs,
KNIGHT DuNLAP,
R. W. 'Voon.
VVhile all this was going on in the seance room, a sequence of
events was unfolding outside the seances, the theme of which consisted
of acute dissatisfaction by Crandon with reference to the conduct and
qualifications of two members of the Commission. By way of demon-
stration that this attitude had nothing of the e.x post facto clement
in it, I reproduce the following text of a letter written by Crandon to
·walton, in the latter's capacity of Counsel to the A.S.P.R. and Chair-
man of the Committee on R esearch of the Society's Trustees. It
was dated January 27th, and accordingly antedated the first formal
seance as well as any production of dictated notes by the Commission.
The full letter, omitting only salutations, etc., reads as follows:
The first meeting of your Commission of Inquiry with Margery
occurred last night. It was unofficial and only with the idea of
getting acquainted.
W e find, to our astonishment, that Dr. Wood can only hear
a whispered voice of a certain inte sity and that Dr. Dunlap has
not been able to hear a whispered voice since childhood. Both these
scientists are distinguished and delightful gentlemen and were it
not for the importance of this inquiry to the whole scientific world
we should not speak of this impairment. We feel that the whis-
pered voice of Walter, to say nothing of the occasional musical
and other audible phenomena, is perhaps the keystone of the
mediumship, and we feel little doubt that the whole inquiry will
be slowed up or even perhaps be unsatisfactory because of this
condition. In any case please make note that we make exception
to this condition befoTe there has been an official sitting.
vVith reference to Wood's dictation of 10 :53 on January 30th,
Crandon points out that the behavior here constituted a clear-cut
violation of article 5 of the preliminary agreement. The Crandons
likewise claim that the most serious results flowed out of this violation,
beginning with the nausea and vomiting chronicled at the end of the
384 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Tec01·d. According to their statement, the catamenia originating out
of the seance of the 29th was aggravated on the 30th and remained
for seventeen days. During this period the Psychic was in bed for
four consecutive days, and she suffered a loss in weight of nineteen
pounds. For several days she had persistent crossing of the eyes,
violent headache, and other alarming symptoms. No normal diagnosis
of her illness could be made.
Against the allegations that they did anything harmful to the
Psychic, the Commissioners have vigorously defended themselves. This
defence has for the better part taken the direction of a flat denial that
she displayed any illness or distress in their presence. In this denial
they of course have to meet the equally fl at testimony of the written
record. A gentleman speaking more or less explicitly in their behalf,
on reading the printed proof of the record asked me very pointedly
whether I kne~v positively that this sentence was in the original docu-
ment. Being in Boston a few days later, I took the trouble to get
access to this document, carrying the three holographic signatures of
Messrs. McComas, Dunlap and Wood. There can be no slight est ques-
tion but what it is in its original state, without alteration or addition
of any description ; and it carries the sentence admitting nausea and
vomiting in the seance room. I cannot sufficiently condemn the flagrant
departure from recoi·ded facts whicl1 is committed when these three
"investigators" now deny that there was any visible evidence of ill-
being on the Psychic's part\ nor the reckless determination to main-
tain at all costs the hypothesis of fraud, which is seen in this offhand
willingness to charge forgery against the Crandons when a clause of
the record turns out to be irreconcilable with that hypothesis. To
this we return in a later chapter dealing with the Commission's long-
belated report.
The Commissioners do not stop with the mere denial that the
Psychic was ill in their presence. They display the strongest disbelief
that catamenia was present as claimed, overruling in this detail the
verdict of their own female secretary who examined the Psychic and
found that it was. And of course while they are not in a position to
deny that a serious illness ran through the ensuing two weeks, they
obviously can, and do, deny that it was caused by any of their actions;
and with this, they give more than a hint of their belief that it was
brought on by nervous collapse following the realization that her
tricks had been found out. They cite the sittings given on February
/
ANOTHER COMMITTEE 385
3rd, 4th and 6th as evidence that there were no immediate ill effects
following that of J anuary 30th. H ere, of course, they quite ignore
the interval between the 30th and the 3rd, sufficiently long for a four-
days' prostration; and they point to the interval of almost two weeks
between F ebruary 6th and the next sitt ing on the 19th, implying that
if the P sychic was ill it was during this interval and from independent
causes. The Crandon story of course is that she was prostrated for
the days immediat ely after the 30th; that she rallied and gave three
seances despite a bad genei·al stat e of health ; and that it then became
clear that she must have a rather extended vacation from sitting.
Speaking indirectly and unofficially on behalf of the Commission,
a New York physician suggests that even though the medical men in
contact with the case were at loss for a diagnosis in normal terms, he
can tentatively supply this. H e stat es that during the lat e winter of
1925-6 there was prevalent t hroughout the E astern st at es, though
falling short of epidemic proportions, a visitation of nervous influenza
with certain sympt oms suggesting " sleeping sickness " ; and he says
that it is evident to him from the account of her symptoms that this is
what Margery had. I think we may be assured that there was no lack
of compet ence or disinterestedness to make this diagnosis at the time,
had it been in accord with the fact s; and in this connection I would
emphasize that not Crandon alone, but Richardson and Goodall, were
in attendance and agreed upon the impossibility of any diagnosis in
terms of normal pathology.
"V\Te need go into this argument no further than to say that natu-
rally, in view of the P sychic's condition, further Committee sittings
were postponed sine die, while negotiations were put under way be-
tween· Crandon, W alton and McComas as to the membership of the
Commission. During the course of these negotiations, Crandon pre-
pared a document comprising all his reservations and objections
against any of the members of the Commission. This document in-
cluded the following articles :
l. One Commissioner "has not heard a whisper smce
childhood."
2. Another " can hear only soft but not sibilant whispers."
3. The Commission went to luncheon with McDougall, the prin-
cipal critic of the mediumship, before any official sitting, and gave
undue credit to what he told them.
4. One of them showed his stat e of cerebration by inferring that
386 'I'HE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Walter names the wooden letters by the sounds made as these strike
the floor; whereas in fact, aside from the inherent absurdity of
this claim, \iValter always names them before he throws them out.
5. 'I'his article comprised a citation of \iVood's unautho rized
handling of the teleplasmic rod, with the subsequent condition of
the Psychic.
6. (See 11 :10 dictation, J anuary 30th.) One of them dictated
that a motion of the doughnut corresponded with a motion of the
Psychic's head. H e then failed to record that the doughnut was
immediately levitated and moved in all directions in the air for
a considerable period, without any motion of the Psychic's head.
Only after Crandon threat ened to stop the investigation at once
was this second series of motions recorded, with the stat ement of
their apparent independence of the medium's head; and following
this, the offending member of the Commission lapsed into what
Crandon regarded as a sullen silence for the rest of the evening,
making no further contribution to the record except for one report
of routine control.
7. In his "Old and New Viewpoints in Psychology," published
in St. Louis as recently as 1925, Dunlap had made the following
statements with reference to psychical research which, Crandon
contended, showed him to be a biased judge, from whom an unpreju-
diced consideration of the case could not be expected:
'I'he best combination for investigation in psychical research
would be the joint work of a trained psychologist and a Burns
detective (p. 92).
In every [psychical] investigation in which a trained psy-
chologist has control, the claims aTe not subst antiated (p. 93).
[The italics are mine to emphasize that he did not say "have
not been," but employed rather a more generalized form of
statement.]
In every case in which a competent investigator has been
allowed to examine fully into the alleged phenomena of tele-
kinesis, the result has been the discrediting of the medium's
claim (p. 97).
'I'he blight of Spiritualism is to be combated primarily by
education in simple facts of scientific psychology (p. 112).
It is profitless to go into all the discussion which ensued. It can
be adequately summarized with the statement that Crandon finally
insisted upon the withdrawal of both Wood and Dunlap, and indicated
a complete willingness to go on with McComas. 'I'he question of
ANOTHER COMMITTEE 387
replacing the objectionable members was discussed; several names were
mentioned ; but in behalf of none could any endorsement beyond that
of McComas be offered. This was not sufficient in Crandon's view;
for McComas had sponsored vVood and Dunlap . For any new mem-
bers, Crandon wanted some verification of l\l[cComas's judgment, from
some other source. The upshot 'ms that the proj ect for replenishing
the Commission languished until the colleges had closed for the summer
and the faculties had dispersed.
In the meantime, a new project had been fathered by ,-,.,ralton.
,-,.,T
hen I was appointed R esearch Officer to the A.S.P .R., it had been
the intent to have two Research Officers permanently. Prince resigned
his place after I had occupied mine for a month; and no successor had
been appointed because no eligible candidate had been found. McComas
had a sabbatical half-year coming to him for the fall term of 1926.
It was now proposed that he accept a t emporar y appointment as
R esearch Officer to fill the existing vacancy from July 1st , 1926, until
such time in 1927 as he had to return to Princeton; and this proj ect
was carried through.
As part of his duties in his new position, McComas carried the
responsibility for the Society's work with Margery during the period
of his incumbency. H e brought into this what appeared to be a most
sympathetic attitude to the mediumship, and a complete freedom from
the prejudices which had obviously tainted his lat e colleagues. As
evidence of this, there exist numerous letters exchanged between him
and Cmndon, of which the two following are by all means the most
pertinent. From Baltimore, on F ebruary 5th, 1926, he wrote the fol-
lowing, the italics being mine:
I find that I have a hundred and one things to attend to before
going back to Princeton. I would much prefer corresponding with
you instead of making a trip to Boston for a conference.
I am afraid that you and Mrs. Crandon were disappointed in
the sittings of last week. Please do not feel that way about them.
The Co1
mnissione1·s are very gen~tinely interested in the phenomena.
I t se.ems t o me that mtr first sit ti.ngs were j nst abmtt what 1
i!Je nll
really wnnted. liVe scLw lL vcLriety of phenomenn and have got
somewhcLt o1·iented to the pToblems.
I sincerely hope that Mrs. Crandon will soon be quite well again.
On April 23rcl, 1926, writing from Princeton, McComas p roduced
a more important document, clearly demonstrating the great divide
388 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
existing between himself and at least one of his former ·colleagues.
P arts of the letter revolving about suggested new personnel and pro-
cedure need not interest us. But the following paragraphs are of
extreme permanent importance:
I was very much pleased to get your letter of April 20th, and
to learn of your kindly feeling toward me and willingness to go
ahead with our investigation.
Dr. Wood's conduct is a matter of keen regret to me. His
association with the Harvard men seemed to give him an attitude
which he certainly did not have when I first invited him to join
the committee. His attitude toward the committee- was about
as inconsiderate as his attitude toward you. We could not get
hold of him for conferences or to make plans. He came late to
the sittings and left in haste to catch his bus. I constantly hoped
that he would change his attitude and make some contributions
to the investigation through his profound knowledge of photog-
raphy. Since our last sitting I have written him twice and have
received no replies. I shall make no further effort to have him
cooperate with us in any way. Inasmuch as I was responsible for
inviting Dr. Wood into the committee, I te;ant to apologize for his
cond~tct, both at the sittings and when en.foying your hospitality.
Doctor·, I wm r·eally very much r:hagrined and moTtified. Some of
the things that occurTed annoyed me gr·eatly, but I felt the wisest
policy was to ignore thern.6
It will now be seen that the Commission was hopelessly moribund,
and that the most one could hope from it would be a report of some
sort. But there were difficulties involved in getting this. One member
of the Commission was going on with the mediumship, and would hardly
be able to attach his name to a report of any sort pending the outcome
of his further exposure. The other two members were in process of
adding to and modifying their records, and pending the completion in
their minds and on paper of this trick, so familiar to one who has
followed the mediumship, they could o£ course not issue the final inter-
pretation of their observations which a report would imply. The
full extent of this campaign by Wood and Dunlap to make their
a These italies are mine. They refer to conduct and attitudes by Woocl, in the
seance l'oom and· in the Crandon house outside the seance l'Oom, which it has not
seemed worth while to describe in any detail but which 0l'andon found very much
out O
·f ;place. That his view was shared at the time by McComas is something which
we shall wish to remember at a later ~oint in om narrative.-J. M. B.
ANOTHER COMMITTEE 389
observations fit into the preconceived ideas which Dunlap was known
and Wood was now suspected to have had; the course of McComas's
further contact with the case; in fact, all the factors leading to a
situation where a belated report was finally possible-these must
all go over into our second volume, awaiting the moment when we
reach them in the chronological development of the case.7
w·c may
therefore leave the Commission here, divided against itself to the point
where one of its members apologizes to the Crandons for the conduct
of the others and consents to the elimination of both of them from his
further work with the mediumship.
7 See open reference No. 15, Vol. 2.
CHAPTER XXXII
The Psychical Activation of the Luminous Paint
By the Editor
VVith the seance of January 14th, 1926, held as usual in the glass
cabinet, VValter presented perhaps the most unexpected and the most
surprising of all the phenomena that he has invented since the begin-
ning of the mediumship. The Psychic was lashed in the glass cabinet,
quite in the usual way; and she was in trance. VVe may let the record
speak for itself:
He then called for the big megaphone, which has the zinc-
sulfide paint on the upper and lower margins; but this paint had
not been activated for this sitting. The megaphone was therefore
entirely invisible in the dark. In asking for the megaphone, Walter
produced the following parody on a familiar verse:
Backward, turn backward, 0 Time in your flight
And bring me a megaphone just for to-night.
I am so weary of yelling and squealing,
I'm sure that a megaphone would be appealing.
I am so tired of cages and wires
I welcome aU men by ca1ling them liars.
vValter was told that the megaphone was black and that it would
do no good to levitate it because we could not see it. Hill said:
"'Valter, the paint is not vitalized." To this Walter replied:
" 'Vhy shouldn't I 'vittalize ' it," mispronouncing the word as
. indicated, with humorous effect. This word seemed to please him,
and he used it, it seemed, a hundred times in the next half hour.
The megaphone was placed on the floor in the right front corner
of the open cabinet. We first saw it when what was evidently the
upper end suddenly became luminous. At this time the megaphone
apparently was horizontal, just below the level of the Psychic's
head. Crandon had made a bet with Walter that 'Valter could
not light ui) the megaphone. Now the big end became slowly but
definitely luminous, very bright; and at one time we could see
apparently Walter's fingers holding on to this zone of luminous
paint. He thus "vittalized" both ends of the megaphone three or
four times, indulging at the same time in the liveliest telekinetic
390
'THE PSYCHICAL ACTIVATION OF LUMINOUS PAINT 391
motions of the same, talking all the time to the megaphone as
though it were intelligent. This vitalizing of the luminous paint
through a means not to us apparent wa·s a new phenomenon.
This is not, as one might at first thought hope, that long-sought
ideal of the psychical r esearcher: a phenomenon which is necessarily
valid because it could not occur other than through genuine psychic
means. It does constitute a good attempt at such self-verification;
but if we mean what we say when we speak of the absolute impossibility
of production by normal means, it does not quite hit the bulls-eye.
The fact is, the luminous paint can be made to glow by exposure to
any source of electro-magnetic waves of higher order than those given
off by itself-which is to say, of shoi"ter wave-length. This would
of course include the ultraviolet, and would give the skeptic full license
to play with the idea of small, easily concealed flashlights with a heavy
ultraviolet component in their beams-this presumably being a matter
of the lens rather than of the filament. It is also a fact that if the
luminous paint be clandestinely compounded or diluted with one or
another chemical-anthracene, for example- its reaction-speed to
ultraviolet exposure will be greatly quickened. In the same way one
might approximate fraudulently the instantaneous fade-out of Febru-
ary 6th (see record, below) and later dates ; since these chemicals glow
only while under actual exposure to the invisible short-wave energy.
So far as comes within the knowledge of any authority that I can cite,
these suggestions exhaust the possibilities of fraud. So if one be willing
to postulate an ingeniously concealed source of ultra-violet energy on
the Psychic's person or in the walls of the room, one can make a stab
at explaining the present phenomena on normal grounds. This expla-
nation, I hope, will make an even larger demand upon the reader's
credulity than the hypothesis of universal confederacy, or any of the
other fantastic notions that have to be brought into play to explain
away the generality of Margery's phenomena. If I am right in my
estimate of the relative degree of phantasy, the present manifestation
brings us further along the road to categorical proof of validity than
we have heretofore come. But inasmuch as the Psychic, in the absence
of all control and observation of any sort, could obviously prosecute
the frauds outlined in this paragraph, we do not have the rock-ribbed,
automatically valid psychical phenomenon, genuine because it could
not occur through normal means under any conditions whatever.
Walter did not make his new accomplishment a seance-room com-
392 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
monplace, but he did repeat it from time to time. . On January 26th,
in the presence of the new-born Committee of the A.S.P.R., he did it,
as a reference to page 370 will indicate; and here again the Psychic
was in trance. But it was the doughnut that was used for the stunt,
rather than the megaphone. Again on February 3rd, "the non-
luminous doughnut was now put on the table and vValter made it glow
from an unseen source of light on request." As on January 26th, this
was done in the old cabinet, without the lashed controls ; but unlike
that occasion, the psychic activation of the paint now came with the
Psychic conscious and normal. This date also appears to mark the
establishment in Crandon's mind of ·the assumption that 'iiValter's
psychic means of activation was parallel with our normal means, involv-
ing exposure of the paint to an invisible source of light, of ultra-
violet or even more occult character.
The seance of February 4th added something to the new manifesta-
tion, again in the old cabinet and with the Psychic normal:
The Dingwall bell-box painted with zinc-sulfide paint but
wholly unactivated and invisible was now put on the table. Now
on request Walter · made it glow brightly as from some unseen
source of light. It was interesting to observe that he could make
it glow when an observer's hand was held horizontally two inches
above it. In other words, such a hand so placed did not screen
off whatever it was that activated the paint..
A repetition of this, with further trimmings, was offered on the
6th; and I think there is a large suggestion here that the activating
process is not one of exposure to light or pseudo-light. One might
perhaps think of it as a chemical or pseudo-chemical effect; or even
as an effect of pure ideo-dynamics. It really is no more absurd to
think of 'iiValter's successfully willing the paint to become luminous
than it is to think of his li.aving at his disposal apparatus sufficiently
physical to activate it by means substantially like those we employ.
The record that provokes this·speculation reads as follows:
Dingwall's bell-box, the top of which is painted with zinc-sulfide
paint, was put on the table; but it had not been activated by
exposure to white light. Nevertheless, on request Walter was able
to make it glow and becO?ne dark again at will. Then at request,
Walter traced a " 7 " and an " H " with his terminal/ and made
this glow so that we could read it. •
4 On the table or· on the dark zinc-sulfide painU-J. M. B.
THE PSYCHICAL ACTIVATION OF LUMINOUS PAINT 393
The italics are mine; and the passage italicized lends support to
the speculations immediately preceding this citation. If we assume
that the control is adequate to exclude the use of the ultra-violet 'flash-
light (the 1·ecord being not sufficiently explicit about the conditions of
this seance to make this other than an assumption for the present date),
the fact that the light can be made instantly to fade out and fade in at
'Valter's command seems to deny equally a pseudo-normal mechanism
working through some psychical.instrumentality. It is also of interest
to note that on the present occasion the Psychic was in the old cabinet,
and without trance; " catamenia was present and we should not ordi-
narily have sat; but Dr. Holmes' unexpected visit made it seem desir-
able, even though the phenomena under these conditions can never be
brilliant." Catamenia is one of the several conditions that often impel
Walter to resort to trance for phenomena ordinarily pxoduced with the
Psychic normal; but on this occasion the sitting was entirely in the
old cabinet and without trance.
On the 19th, with the Psychic lashed in the glass cabinet and
entranced, "he now called for the big megaphone, the paint on which
had not been activated. He promptly made this glow." On the
25th, in the old cabinet and without trance, " he made the top of
the Dingwall bell-box, which was covered with zinc-sulfide paint but
not activated, glow and fade at the 1·equest of the sitte1·s." The italics,
which are mine, mark ~ new departure, and seem to justify the com-
ment of the record, "beautifully done." On March 4th, again in
the old cabinet without trance, the test of February 4th was carried
a little further when " Walter now made the top of the Dingwall
bell-box glow on request, and even with Van Arsdale's hand placed
flat on it." On the 5th, this was repeated: "the Dingwall bell-box
was put on the table, Eddy's hand placed upon it, and 'Valter made
the non-vitalized top glow nevertheless." This, too, was in the old
cabinet without trance. Again on the 8th, and under the same condi-
tions, Sawyer's hand was placed upon the top of the bell-box and this
was activated despite the obstruction. And on the 12th and 21st
this was done with an unnamed sitter officiating.
The record for March 22d infonns us that "Walter now made
· the unactivated top of the Dingwall bell-box glow on request, and even
made it glow when Swift had his hand down on it. Then vValter
completely eclipsed the box top and exposed it alternately again and
again." One wonders whether there was a variation from previous
394 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
technique here which justified the use of this new word. It is con-
ceivable that here~ofore the activated paint had faded out, not
instantly but very rapidly; and not by dark encroachment from any
one direction but by actual fading over its entire surface at once;
and that on the present occasion, the dark encroachment was seen
rather than the uniform fading. It is also conceivable that what had
previously been described as fading was in reality eclipsing; and that
the divergence from the norm which would be implied in a true fading
out at speed rather than with the normal slowness is beyond 'iValter's
reach.
On the 27th and under Overstreet's hand the psychic activation
was carried out. Further specul~tion as to the matter of eclipsing
vs. true fading is provoked by the r~cord for April lOth, which tells us:
Walter now made the unactivated Dingwall bell-box glow under
the hands of two sitters, then made part of it glow, then totally
eclipsed it. This would seem to depend on some source of ultra-
violet light controlled by Walter.
The record for April 15th5
chronicles the psychic activation, and
repeats the assumption of the one immediately preceding. On the 17th
he did it again. On the 25th, he did it in my presence and under con-
ditions permitting tests of a rigor and a range not previously attained;
all this is ·described in the complete seance record (pp. 408-9) . And
with this climax, we may well elect to regard the psychical activat~on
of the luminous paint as holding nothing more of novelty for us; so
that its further occurrence becomes a matter for mere citation by title
in Chapter XXXVII.
" Crandon's ·own record; not Dudley's reconl of pp. 397 ff. Dudley verifies from
memory that the activation occurrecl and was omitted from his record inadvertently.
-J. M. B.
CHAPTER XXXIII
Margery and Other Psychics
From the Seance Records
Certain episodes of the 111. 111. book, together with the Fo.ss sitting
of September 28th, 1925/ carry the large suggestion that when
Margery sits in the presence of another medium or another person
of mediumistic trend, the results are usually interesting. On two
evenings in March, 1926, this condition was met; and the resultant
records are here presented without further comment.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, March 9; 1926. In this sitting the
active psychic was Dr. Gordon, an amateur psychic from New
York He sat in front of the old cabinet, which was provided with
black curtains. He was back to the cabinet. There were present,
to left: Mrs. Baker, Richardson, Hill, Crandon, Mrs. Richardson,
R eilly, Margery, and the Psychic, Dr. Gordon, again.
Trance came on within a few minutes and directly Gordon's
chair was moved with much noise back into the cabinet. Then from
the cabinet came an unintelligible sentence which Reilly said came
from "The Dwe1ler on the Threshold." Then another more or
less muffled voice came announcing itself as "Dr. Newman." This
voice said that he had given a sermon in 1901 which he wished now
to correct in view of greater knowledge and he then went on for
about twenty minutes with a sermon. In the meantime as trance
went on, an occasional expressive and low whistle was heard from
\Valtcr, apparently within the cabinet. Shortly after this a small
basket came flying across the room from the direction of the
cabinet, just missing Crandon's head.
When the sermon was done there was an immediate loud crash
on the Dingwall bell-box, whereupon Walter said: "Round one
in favor of Dr. Newman." Walter went on whistling more or less
cheerfully and said amongst other things that he was greatly
pleased with this meeting. " Getting lots of force, thank you
kindly."
Then there came through a lisping falsetto voice from the
cabinet in which Gordon still was. Voice was recognized by Reilly
1 See page 82.
395
396 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
as that of "Elsie." Then began an exchange of remarks between
Elsie and Walter that held us in side-splitting convulsions of mirth
for twenty minutes. This had to be suppressed, however, for fear
of offending the feelings of Mr. Reilly. VValter said: " Speak
up, Elsie, you seem to have some difficulty. Apparently you were
all finished but your palate." Elsie replied: "Walter is a bad boy.
I shall have to kiss him." To which ·walter r eplied: "Elsie this is
so sudden, spare me. Now, Elsie, make some lights. . Don't keep
your light under a bushel or at least move the bushel." To this
Elsie replied: "How can I make a light if you stay in the way."
Finally Elsie got tired and said she had to go. To which Walter
commented: " vVould'st break my heart? " Then Elsie was silent
for a time and somebody said: "Elsie is supposed to have lived
as a child about one hundred years ago." "I thought so," said
Walter. "That's the kind of language I am talking to her. Elsie,
art thou croakedst? Stick it thou out a little longer."
After a time Gordon announced that there were a number of
boys present and gave names such as Luther, Martin, Philip, Mark,
John and a few others. Then various whispers could be heard
coming from the cabinet in which there was no one, both Psychics
being outside the cabinet. There were apparently several distinct
overlaps of the voices and the whistling while both Psychics were
talking. The curtains of the empt y cabinet bulged out, as with a
great wind, several times. Some sitters thought they could make
out three whispers simultaneously and another observed that two
whispers overlapped Gordon's voice. Then Walter and apparently
two others whistled a kind of trio, Walter keeping time by beating
on the Dingwall bell-box very successful blasts of near music.
Walter finally said: "I think we will have to go now. The plank
is greased."
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, March 14, 1926, in the old cabinet.
Walter came through promptly and talked for five minutes and
after that was not heard from until the end.
Shortly Graham went into partial and after five minutes into
complete trance. Crandon received for about fifteen minutes a
vague luminous impression as of a human figure standing between
him and Graham. Walter was asked about it and said, "Yes, that
was me." There were distinct cold breezes coming from cabinet all
through the sitting. Graham was considerably exhausted by the
expen ence. It seemed apparent that Walter had discovered in
him a physical medium.
CHAPTER XXXIV
Four Seance Records of Outstanding· Character
By E. E. Dudley and the Editor
The seance of April 15th, 1926, stood out in the judgment of
Crandon as something quite out of the ordinary routine, on account of
the presence of Richards. This gentleman is hom London; and
Crandon's record says of him: " sent by Dingwall." It was taken
for granted by the Crandons that Richards had been specifically sent
by Dingwall to examine the current phenomena and to r eport back to
him. This doubtless was an exaggeration, especially in view of the
fact that at this date Dingwall must have been in some degree aware
<Jf the impending parting of the ways between himself and the S.P .R .,
and of his own resultant withdrawal from psychical research. But he
was an acquaintance of Dingwall, and Dingwall did introduce him to
the Crandons and so zvcts responsible for his presence. The temptation
to regard his sitting as of extra importance was an obvious and natural
one. This attitude found expression mainly in an arrangement
whereby, during the seance, Dudley was to draw up notes on which he
would base a seance record approximati:hg the character of my own.
The dictaphone was not used; Dudley made his notes partly in the
dark and partly in the intervals of light; partly in longhand and
partly in shorthand. The record which he drew up and signed turns
.out to be almost a verbatim transcript of these notes. In the accuracy
·of detail and the preservation of the seance sequence it of course is
vastly superior to Crandon's memorandum, drawn up as. usual on the
following morning; and I ·give it in full. In order to preserve the
better its documentary character, I follow Dudley's style in designat-
ing sitters, etc., by initials, as follows: Richards = R, Sterling = S,
IValter = IV, lVIrs. Stinson = Mrs. S, Crandon = C, " light" = Lt,
E . E. D. = Dudley, west = w, east = e. He designates the medium
"Psyche," a name often applied to her by her friends.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, April 15th, 1926. Sitters : Psyche,
Mr. Richards, Dr. C., E. E. D., Mr. Spencer(?) .1
Mrs. Stinson
outside circle.
1 Actually Sterling. This parenthesis, and the two others below, :ue part of
Duc
1ley 's original recorc1.--J. M. B.
397
398 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
R. and S. examined YCO in white light, also bell-box. vVire
ties applied in white light. R. tied wrist wires and S. tied the
ankle ditto. S. not expert and twisted the wires together 3/4
turns before making knots. Psyche secured in glass cabinet after
searchlight inspection by R. a nd S. R. tied ankles and right hand
to eye-bolts and S. tied left hand. Ties finished at 9 :15.
W . came through after a few minutes and asked R ., following
introductions, to pick out four letters, put them in a basket and
place basket on shelf. Done. (Omission: w·hen fastening
Psyche, R. secured collar about neck and examined knots in white
light.) Continuing: W. knocked basket off shelf twice and spilled
letters. R. replaced on shelf. The third time W . told R. to put
in new letters and anything else he pleased. Done. R. put basket
on shelf, and very shortly ,iV. threw out a letter, saying that it was
a " C" or a " G," but he couldn't tell which. Taken by S. He
then threw out another, a "Y." Taken by S. ; correct. Then said
there was a "D" on the shelf, and threw out a "note-book" which
R. said was correct. R . retrieved the "D." 0. K. S. reported
"C." 0. K.
Luminous basl(et placed on shelf by R ., after inspection. vV.
attempts levitation and drops it behind Psyche to her left. Re-
trieved and replaced by R. W. levitates it high above, to both
sides, well behind Psyche. Touches roof of cabinet and also taps
glass at her right. Hand fastenings checked by R. and S. during
levitation. W. drops basket to Psyche's left. R. retrieves it. S.
takes place near Mrs. S. R. puts basket on shelf, locks cabinet
door and stands in front of and controls C. and D . W . levitates
basket and drops it at Psyche's left again. R . unlocks door,
retrieves and replaces basket, locks door, but there is no further
levitation. Psyche brought out of trance, collar removed by R . in
white light after examination of ties.
In red light VCO put on shelf; insp-ected by R ., who tested tube
and mouthpiece separately, inserted mouthpiece in tube, placed
mouthpiece in Psyche's mouth and returned to circle. R . con-
trolled hands and mouth of C., while S. controlled ditto of D. At
R .'s request, W. whistled Yankee Doodle. At C.'s suggestion he
repeated : "Live thou each day as though you had a p-a-s-s-t! "
Unusually well done. Mouthpiece removed and again tested by R.
in red light. Psyche cut loose by R. and S. after thorough inspec-
tion of ties in white light.
Sitting continued in old cabinet. Order: Psyche, R ., D., S.,
Dr. C.
I
)
/
SEAN CE RECORDS OF OUT ST ANDING CH AR ACTER 399
Bell-box on t able. S. picks up and t urns 360 degrees. R ings
at start and finish. R . picks up and it rings a little longer. R .
picks up again, and, while it rings intermittently, walks to book-
case, turns around, returns, hand s it to D ., who lifts it high, turns
and brings it down, handing it to S., who t urns around and replaces
on t able. Intermittent ringing throughout, but continued after
placing on table. Sparking very noticeable. R . turns back flapper
and feels around contacts; replaces flapper and ring ing immedi-
ately commences. R emoved by R . for later examination.
Scales placed on table by D. 1
" Balance without weights in red.
R . puts 4 on w. pan. Dark Lt . ; pans balance. Dark
. . . Lt.; pans balance. R. and S. pass hands under pans, around
scales, between P syche and C. and scales. No effect. Dark. R.
removes weights, puts one .on e. pan. U nbalanced. D ark
Lt. ; balanced. vV. pan off by R. Unbalanced. D ark . . . Lt.;
st ill unbalanced. R . puts apparently empty pan back into w. frame
and scales unbalance toward w. with one weight in e. pan ( pan had
been on platform opposite side of scales from P syche). D ark. ''iiV.
t ells R. to remove w. pan, keeping it level. Light. R . does and e.
goes down. R . replaces pan and scales unbalance toward w. Dark
Light; balanced; vV. t ells R . to remove either pan. H e
t akes e. pan with weight in it. Dark Lt. ; balanced; R.
replaces e. pan. No clwngc in balance. Static, especially at w. end.
Dark Lt. ; slig htly unbalanced toward w. or " light end."
ViT
. told S. to press down on either end t o feel force. Done on e.
end; w. end rises. Dark. R . puts finger on e. pan and feels
unbalanced force. D ark . . . Lt. ; S. picks up scale unit about
15" while R . presses down on " empty " w. pan and feels unbalanced
force. L ater estimated as 2-5 oz. Scales removed by D .
Crandon's record is identical with the above in all essentials, save
that at the end it chronicles ·the activation by Walter of the non-
vitalized surface of the Dingwall bell-box. Dudley verifies orally that
this occurred and was inadvertently omitted from his record t hrough
his concentration upon other things. Crandon's record, of course,
is neither so detailed nor so sequential as Dudley's, and we may well
save the space which it would occupy.
D udley, I t ake it, is amply conscious of t he great inferiorit y of the
recording procedure which he here p racticed, as compared with dict a-
phonic recording. In my j udgment, this inferiority is so great t hat
the record drawn up subsequently from memory is more valuable than
1a This paragraph looks forward to Chap. XXXVI.
400 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the one by holographic notes made during the seance. The difference
between the demand upon one's conscious attention made by talking
and by writing is a matter which every person must have observed;
one can talk continuously while driving a car through heavy traffic,
while even if there were some device whereby .one could write without
removing one's hands from the wheel, it is evident that one could not
write and drive simultaneously. For some of the European medium-
ships, with their long intervals of inaction between isolated, simple,
phenomena, the holographic record impresses me as feasible; with
Margery's rapid-fire continuity of action I should never attempt it.
If for any reason I am unable to make my Margery records by dictation
in the seance room, I shall always make them by memory out of it.
Dudley obviously disagrees with this judgment; and with the one
reservation that his record must represent to considerable degree the
observation of others rather than of himself, I will grant that he makes
a better showing in behalf of the possibility of simultaneously observing
and writing down than I should have supposed to be possible.
The one question which the preceding discussion leaves open is: why
not use the dictaphone, as I had done during the preceding summer?
When I first saw Dudley's record, it raised this question in my own
mind. At a very early date the question was answered.
It will be realized that I had not been in Boston since October, 1925.
I had not seen the glass cabinet itself nor the procedure of the stand-
ardized seance; I had not observed the revival of the scales, nor the .
new trick of psychic activation of the luminous paint, nor any of the
other current phenomena or the current improvements in old phe-
nomena. On April 23rd and 24th I was in Boston for the purpose of
catching up with the case; and in the seances of these two dates the
entire standardized procedure was twice gone through with in my
presence.
It had been my supposition that I would make dictaphone records
for these two seances, and as soon as I arrived in Lime Street I moved
toward clearing the dictaphone for action and insuring the presence in
the seance room of a supply of blank records. This move was at once
checked by the active opposition of Crandon, who made it clear that
he was strongly hostile to the use of the dictaphone in the seance room.
He finds this procedure " complicated," without being able to show me
wherein the complications lie. He objects to the noise of dictation,
which in my judgment is no more objectionable than that of the seance-
.I
I
I
SEANCE RECORDS OF OUTSTANDING CHARACTER 401
Toom conversation and the music. H e insists that the dictation, done
by the chief observer present, distracts the attention of that observer
from the more vital business of observation; whereas I have recorded
my own judgment that it does nothing of the sort to any serious degree.
W e remain permanently unable to agree, however; and the point is
one of those upon which Crandon's opinions are so firmly fixed that it
were profitless to attempt active opposition. The result is that the
dictaphone is not used any more when I go to Lime Street. In its
absence, where Dudley and others are inclined toward holographic
notes, I lean entirely toward the record from subsequent memory,
drawn up as soon after the seance as possible. It loses the detail and
the sequence of the holographic record; but what it loses here it gains
in giving the recorder a much more careful and det ailed fund of obser-
vation. VVhat one can remember from this fund is more useful than
what one can jot down at the moment of superficial observation. \iVith
this explanation, I pass to my records for April 23rd and 24th. Con-
trary to my usual custom, they are drawn in the fit·st person:
1JS1·d: Circle: Margery, Sampson, H. Libbey, Crandon, A.
Libbey, Bird, Margery again. Outside circle, T. Hyde.
Above order applies to first p art of sitting, held in glass cabinet
with all formalities. The wires were put in place about the
Psychic's wrists and ankles, and about the screw-eyes, by the Lib-
beys, Sampson, and myself. I examined with care all I did not
myself do, and found all thoroughly 0. K. I put the collar on and
attended to all details of its tying. With chair in initial (and
identical final) position, the cord running from the collar was so
tight that it gave a musical note when struck; and there was no
audible or other indication of the chair's being moved during the
sitting. At end of sitting, a deep furrow could be plainly felt in
each ankle, where the rubber had bitten in; and it was with con-
siderable difficulty that scissors were sufficiently to be inserted under
both ankle and wrist wires to cut them.
[There her e ensues some 700 words of description of the glass
cabinet and the wire control, which I saw on this evening for the
first time. Since this material is fully duplicated elsewhere in the
current volume, it may be omitted in this place.J
On the present occasion, the knots, et c., in the wire W
·2re exam-
ined at the end of the glass-cabinet part of the sitting, and each
p ronounced undisturbed by the sitter who had originally tied it.
The rope to the collar was ~ o tight that at the end of the trance
period \iValter st at ed he was unable to bring her out of trance
402 THE M.ARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
unless and until it was released; so a white flashlight, shielded to
prevent shining in her eyes, was handled by Crandon in such way
as to enable me to unlock and unbuckle t he collar. The tie of rope
on to the collar is permanent, similarly with the tie of the rope to
the staple in the rear wall; the ensembl e lying on the cabinet floor
when not in usc.
The first "act" consisted in the identification, by VValtcr, of
wooden letters placed in 'the cabinet by me. These letters are about
four inches high, an inch thick, and an inch in section through each
limb. There are numerals from 1 to 9 as well as all letters, some
in duplicate or triplicate. I selected four in the dark, handling
them with two fingers and at one point of the wood so as to insure
against knowledge by myself. All four were placed in a large, dark
basket which I , on Walter's instructions, put in the front of the
cabinet at the Psychic's right. There was complete hand control
throughout the circle, but not hand contact with the medium, Walter
stating that under the conditions this drained rather than aided
her . The end sitters therefore placed one hand above and one
under the controlling hand of the neighbor; and save for the release
of my right hand for purposes of executing vValter's requests, or
of Crandon completely to leave his seat for the same purpose, this
hand control of the sitters was uninterrupted throughout, according
to the statements of all involved.
Of the four letters first given, Walter made identifications,
throwing each letter out on to the floor afte1
·2 naming it. · These
were then laid aside in separate places for subsequent check. Three
had been named correctly; in a fourth instance what ' i
Valter took
for a K turned out to be an M. Crandon makes the point that I
"could not " correct the error in the dark. H e should say "did
not"; or "did not try to." The fact was that on the following
night I was easily able to distinguish between K's and M's. It is
my recollection that I made the correction, mentally, at the time ;
but of this I am not certain- ! may have put the block in my
pocket without any examination. The mistake would seem to indi-
cate a pseudo-tactile rather than any other type of p erception.
Sitters were now called upon to contribute objects to be identi-
fied. H. Libbey put in the basket a cigarette holder; A. Libbey
a half dollar, I a small comb, Sampson a box of lozenges which were
life-savers in all but name. 'iValter identified the latter very com-
pletely in terms of the description which has just been given, stating
specifically that they were not life-savers, after having made a pun
2 See page 377.
.\
I
SEANCE RECORD S OF OUT ST ANDING CHARACTER 403
on that name and likened them to the objects in question. The
cigarette holder he said was like a pencil. but not a pencil, then he
named it correctly. My comb and Libbey's coin were in the basket
at the same time ; ·walter identified each correctly, giving the
denomination of the coin, which was important, since I knew from
hearing that it was a coin which Libbey had deposited; and he
attributed the coin to Libbey and the comb to me. It is my impres-
sion that something was said indicating the sequence of actions,
i.e., my deposit of my comb, a r emark indicating that I had made
my deposit, then Libbey's audible deposit of the coin; but of this
I am not who1ly certain. In any event, the attribution in distinc-
tion from the identification was attempt ed again on the following
night ; see pp. 406-7, L
J,35-6, 440- l.
The next episode consisted in telekinesis of the small basket,
touched at three points on the handle with luminous p aint. The
shelf was called for-a portable affair that fits into the cabinet in
front of the P sychic and does service in lieu of a t able. Crandon
put this in place and returned to his place and to control. At
\iValter's instructions the basket was put on the shelf by Sampson,
t o whom I handed it. H e laid it on its side, and it began to rock
back and forth. At first each excursion carried it out of balance
and it fell to the floor. Finally Sampson found a position for it in
which this did not occur, and it swung back and forth nicely, rotat-
ing on what would have been its vertical axis had it been st anding
erect. The visible r esult was a dipping first one way and then the
other of the luminous spots. After a few dips, V
Valter cal1ed for
red light; Crandon was slow; and by the t ime we had the light the
action had ceased. Several repetitions were more fortunate, the
basket oscillating for some time after the light went on. The
P sychic was dimly visible, the basket much better so. The light
was compet ent only to prove that the basket was really there and
moving; for exclusion of fraud we must fall back upon the control,
which would most certainly prevent the attachment of any mecha-
nism, even so simple a one as a silk thread. It should perhaps be
specified that the motion was " projected out of darkness into
light"; i.e., that it started in darkness and continued after the
light came on. In each case it damped and died out with fair
promptness; Crandon's count of 14 seconds for one episode surely
includes the portion in darkness.
As a minor variation, the identification of letters known to the
sitters was now attempted. I got two letters and passed them to
Libbey, Jr., and to Sampson. They were K and Q, and so 1denti-
fied, silently, by each of us. Walter named them correctly; he
404 THE MARGER Y MEDIUMSHIP
and Crandon were in some hope that the sitters would not have
agreed among themselves. These letters, like the prior ones, were
tossed out of the cabinet on t o the floor only after they had been
named. The earlier ones were tossed out the open front (the door
being open) , on Sampson's side. The present two were thrust each
out of one of the handholes, with considerable difficulty in finding
a passage, of course.
At thi s point, consultation between Walter and Crandon deter-
mined upon the voice machine as the next step. The P sychic was
accordingly brought out of trance, after the collar had been
released as indicated above. The hands and feet remained lashed
during the voice-machine episode.
The VCO demonstration went off brilliantly. P rior test in the
other room had satisfied the new sitters of the fatuity of trying to
beat the new, enlarged mouthpiece.3
I blew through the mouthpiece
from the butt end before and after to prove its operativeness ;
and through the tube moving the float s to prove that this was in
order; this indirection is necessary since one may not put in one's
mouth the mouthpiece which the P sychic is about to put in het s.
All mouths of eligible suspects (Crandon, Bird, Hyde) were con-
trolled by one of the strangers during the actual demonstration.
I inserted the mouthpiece in Margery's mouth and removed it at the
end. She blew the float s into position, held them there, and W alter
whistled and spoke brilliantly, for two minutes or ·more. There
was no false start or accidental collapse of any sort; the whole
thing went off smoothly with no hitch at all. No slightest unsteadi-
ness of the floats during the demonstration.
The P sychic was now cut loose after all appropriate examina-
tion of the knots, et c. ; and we moved to the old cabinet. H ere the
order, clockwise, ran Margery, Sampson, Bird; Hyde and the two
Libbeys in an order not clearly recalled; Crandon, Marger y. SA
bell-box on t able rang spontaneously two or three times in the dark;.
it had been examined by one of the Libbeys before the seance,
though a bit perfunctorily. R ed light ringing in the hands of
sitters was the next order, and was done with success. First Samp-
son handled it, and it rang almost continuously, with one or two
sharp breaks, from a second OT two aft er he picked it up until some
seconds after he had set it down and t he light had gone out.
In the next red light interval one of the Libbeys handled the
box ; handed it to the other , who · ·anded it to H yde, who handed it
to me. I took it over to the bookcase and returned and set it down
s See page 275.
SEANCE RECORDS OF OUTSTANDING CHARACTER 405
on the table ; I and at least one other turned completely around
while holding it. All this occurred in the one long period of red
light, and as before, the bell pealed continuously; no hit and miss,
no short ringing, but one long peal, quite constant in duration and
intensity save for one or two sharp, clean breaks; and ringing into
the darkness after being set down on the t able. On both occasions
I was unable, because of angles and distance, to see the initial
depression of the board or the quiver accompanying a break in
the ringing. While carrying the box, I felt very plainly the vibra-
tions of the ringing bell. Sampson now lifted the box to verify that
it does not ring automatically when thus disturbed. It gave no
slightest symptoms of ringing.
The scales aa_Comstock's old No. 4 outfit, which has never been
taken away from Lime Street- was now put on the table. It was
not on the tumblers as formerly, but this issue is met by the fact
that it was brought to the t able anew for this episode, and moved
somewhat by me after it had been placed. E verything done was
projected out of darkness into light, and projected back again
before the psychic influence went out of action. I do not regard
this as a great disadvantage under the present conditions and with
the present performance, but merely record it as a fact. It means,
of course, that the red light would come on to find the scales in a
supernormal state of balance or unbalance in which they would
remain until after the light went out again. The episodes were :
One-to-nothing load (the same checkers as weights that were
formerly used) passage from dynamic to static balance. That is,
the unevenly weighted pans were oscillating up and down, without
touching the platform, when the light came on; and this action
damped out until they came to rest at approximately equal level.
Same load, same action ; but sitters were instructed to explore
thoroughly on all sides of apparatus by sweeping of arms as well
as under pans with pencils. Nothing found and no effect upon
the manifestation.
Same load, same action. Sampson under instructions removed
the empty pan on his side, and the other crashed, without dis-
mantling anything. Sampson examined pan and empty cradle.
Against orders, through misunderstanding, he tur ned upside down
the pan which he had off the scales ; and Crandon expected to sec
normal action after this pan was replaced. R eplacement of the
pan, however, was followed 15 . instant resumption of the super-
normal balance, showing that nothing had_
been " spilled out " of it.
sa Again anticipating Chapter XXXVI.
406 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Same load and same action, but with the roles of the pans
reversed, the checker being now on the west instead of the east pan.
Five-to-nothing load; same action, with examination during
occurrence as in the second episode with the scales.
At this point the victrola began to run slowly and squawk fear-
fully. It developed that the rubber friction wheel was badly worn,
and reduced practically to a mass of jelly. This was not known
to any sitter, however. ' ¥ alter made no claims, implicit or explicit,
about the stoppage ; but he remarked that he had to go anyhow,
and went promptly. It struck 10:30 within a few seconds of his
good night. It is stated that this is regular, that he always "beats
it" sufficiently before 10:30 to beat the striking clocks, but no
earlier than is necessary to do so. This reminds me strongly of
Cartheuse1:'s seances, wherein the control tells what time it is as
he is about to go. (See open reference No. 16 in Vol. 2.)
t24th: Circle: Margery, Dudley, N. Gray, Miss Carpenter,
Crandon, Bird (at Margery's left). Outside circle, behind Bird:
lHrs. Stinson. Sitting held entirely in glass cabinet.
:Following the gesture of the previous evening, it was decided
by Crandon to seek ' ¥alter's consent to a fairly elaborate t est
in identification plus attribution of obj ects. For this purpose,
several sitters placed each a single obj ect in the basket. I con-
tributed an ashtray from the bookroom; Mrs. Stinson an old pen-
knife which she believed and Margery disbelieved to have belonged
to 'iValter; Gray a leather wallet or case, flat ·and obviously empty
or containing a modicum of papers ; Dudley a small barrette ;·and
while I saw all these items go into the basket, Crandon, quite with-
out intention of secrecy, slipped in without my knowledge a wooden
clothespin which had been used at the Harvard sittings.
The basket containing these items was put by me in the front
corner of the glass cabinet, at the psychic's right, all the lashings
having been duly seen to, for the most part by Dudley and me.
The rope from collar to back of cabinet was not quite so taut as
the night before ; all the points of t ying were wholly satisfactory,
and were adequately inspected by Dudley and me, before and after.
Trance came on within a minute or at most two, as had been the
case the night before.
The basket was handled considerably, and apparently with some
degree of roughness. The ashtray was identified, but attributed to
Mrs. Stinson, Walter making a few sarcastic remarks to the gen-
eral effect that Ma shouldn't help herself to the furnishings of the
house, that she had been drinking and now she was smoking, etc.,
SEANCE RECORDS OF OUTSTANDING CHARACTER 407
etc. Her puzzled reception of these remarks made it evident that
she didn't know what Walter was talking about, and he dropped the
ashtray for the moment without attempting any correction. H e
passed to the clothespin and identified it as having to do with the
Harvard boys; and he attributed it to me, scolding humorously
that I should bring the Harvard atmosphere in with me. He did
not make it at once clear that the object was a clothespin; and
not knowing what he was talking about, I was probably unable
to reply to his remarks without betraying that something was
again wrong. Ultimately the direct statement was made that the
article was a clothespin, and Crandon spoke up to verify this; its
attribution to him followed, I should think naturally and normally.
The barrette was next dealt with ; and with conspicuous success.
It was described as "something from a lady's hair, but not a comb,"
which impressed us all as a very happy statement from a man, who
might very likely not know it by its exact name. And it was
attributed explicitly and without any indication's having been
thrown out, to Dudley. Mrs. Stinson now spoke up and asked
'iValter what else he found in the basket and didn't he recogni~e it,
hadn't he seen it somewhere before, etc., and presently in response
to this demand he claimed the knife as his own.
Walter conversed a bit about the demonstration just attemptC'd,
which had been very frankly on an experimental basis. H e said
that objects of some degree of personal association ought to be
used, rather than mere random objects contributed from nowhere
in particular by individuals. 'iVe therefore repeated the experi-
ment: I contributed my cardboard case with three automobile
licenses, Gray a silver card case, rather thick, curved to fit a pocket,
and containing three cards; and Dudley a trick hairpin invented
and manufactured by himseJf, which has a short, central tine
between the two regular legs, and which, on seeing it later in the
light, I thought would offer extraordinary difficulties of identifica-
tion by any tactile or pseudo-tactile process.
'iValter first handled what I took to be my own contribution
but what turned out to be Gray's. He identified it as a card-case,
with something in it- -cards-two of them-no, . three. He
attributed it to me, and in the light of my case and its three cards
I acknowledged it, asking vValter to proceed with the attempt to
read what was on the cards. 'iValter said they were engraved
cards, which was the fact but which of course I took to be wrong;
and.after,dropping them momentarily, he returned to them to read
my name in full-.T. :Malcolm Bird-on them, which of course was
wrong and a product of the erroneous attribution. He identified,
408 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
described with complete accuracy, and attributed to Dudley the
trick hairpin. Then he picked up the cardboard case, but aban-
doned it without dealing satisfact orily with it.
It might be well to chronicle that on the previous evening, as
he instructed us to put obj ects in the basket for identification, he
said : " and for God's sake, put in something besides penknives.
E ve1
) body that comes into this room has a penknife, Birdie ; I've
identified thousands of them." F urther and of decided importance
in view of the closeness of the Psychic's bonds : the half dollar
was fumbled :in the attempt to return it, and it lay on the floor
of the cabinet for some time. But later, Wa,Zter piclced it up, and
1
·eturned it in the smctller basket.
The next episode on the 24th, was the identification of letters
unknown to the sitter s. I put four of these in the basket in the
cabinet , and all were correctly named by 'iValter and then thrown
out the front or the handholes. Throughout this part of the
sitting, the basket was batted about in the cabinet much more
viciously than the night before.
The small luminous basket was now placed on the shelf, and
a duplication in all respects of the previous evening's balancing act
was given. There was the same difficulty in finding a place and
position where it would not fall to the floor. When this was found,
the act proceeded as the night before, with the addition of a large
tendency for the rocking to check abruptly, almost with a j erk,
as the light went on. In this connection, it may be of significance
that the full strength of the red light was here used, far brighter
than the night before.
A period ensued in which the luminous basket was levitated high
and far inside the glass cabinet , moving about with freedom. Some
discussion then ensued with ' Valter as to what he should do next.
H e was somewhat more choosey than usual, r ej ecting the VCO
machine, the notion of bringing the P sychic out and moving to the
other cabinet, etc. The bell-box was placed on the shelf in the glass
cabinet and he rang it once or twice.4
Then at his own motion his
lat est trick was shown to me, for the first t ime.
The large megaphone was introduced into the cabinet, on the
P sychic's lap or on the shelf. It carried a band of the zinc sulfide
paint, but this had not been activated and hence was wholly dark
and invisible. But after the megaphone had been in the cabinet
for less than a minute, the st rip of paint flared up faintly and was
clearly though not at all brightly visible as a semi-circle of light.
4 A very important episode, which will receive comment on page 415.-J. M. B.
SEAN CE R E CORDS OF OUT ST ANDING CHARACTER 409
It faded out to invisibility and faded in again; and after two or
three repetitions, while it was dark I asked p ermission, on its next
fading in, to reach in and grasp it in verification that what we
saw was .actually the luminous band on the megaphone. This
t est was permitted without hesitation and with complete success,
the megaphone being wholly recognizable by virtue of a bad crack
in the large end.5
In the same way the small end of the megaphone, a plain
luminous plaque, and a luminous coordinate board were successively
activated by w alter and made to glow for a succession of brief
intervals. Five to ten seconds of visibility seemed about the limit.
';yalter said good night, but lingered; and while he lingered
t alking, it struck 10:80. Both on this and the previous evenings,
there were several occasions when he t alked distinctly and fairly
loudly 7
while the red light was on.
Above record from sketchy memoranda made after seance,
slightly amplified Sunday morning, April 25th, and drawn up in
the present form from these memoranda and from the memories
which they evoked, April 28th and 29th. In the latter connection,
use was made of Crandon's own record of the 23d, so far as my
memory was clearly in accord with this document.
For the first of these two evenings, Crandon prep ared his .usual
record; I conserve the space which it would t ake up since it differs in
no fundamental from mine and is far less complet e. For the second
evening he did not bothet about a record of his own, letting mine serve
the purposes to which his is ordinarily put.
The spring of 1926 brought out one more seance at which a full
record was prepared independently of Crandon's; this time, by Dud-
ley. I give it complete save for two long passages detailing ';yalter's
conversational quips:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street , May 14th, 1926. In glass cabinet.
Present : vVebster ; Mrs. W ebster, Mrs. Bingham, Crandon, Mrs.
H ale, Mrs. Lindsay, Johnson.6
Mrs. Stinson behind W ebster,
Dudley behind Mrs. W ebst er.
Apparatus inspected by all. VCO t ested by ';yebster and John-
son. Bell-box examined by the W ebsters, Mrs. Bingham, Mrs.
5 This ;incident, too, is put in its place in another chap ter ; see page 394.- J. M. B.
a The record does not say that this represents the sitting order, but Dudley is
eonfident that it does so.-J. M. B.
1 See open reference N o. 19, Vol. 2.
410 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Hale and Johnson, the latter explaining it to the others. Tics
placed on wrists and ankles by Crandon and added to by Johnson.
The P sychic secured in cabinet by Johnson (right foot, collar) and
Webster (left foot and hands ). With exception of right hand, the
ties were most weird; vValter remarked on the awful bunch of knots.
Walter manifested in less than one minute. vVebster picked out
letters in the dark, put these in basket and basket in cabinet on
floor. Basket levitated by 'iValter, who threw out one letter at a
·time. "Here's one for you, for the nice lady, a U for you." Mrs.
Hale couldn't locate it ; Johnson tried ; Walter said it was between
the two chairs ( Mrs. Hale's and Mrs. Lindsay's) ; correct. It
was a U. Next letter: " H, for Hell and happiness." Johnson
says 0. K. Next M or more probably W, for Mrs. H ale; 0. K.
Next J for Johnson; 0. K. Next 0 for Mrs. Webster; 0. K.
Various articles placed in basket in dark. 'iValter identified
large and small handkerchief and " a small metal case with some
small things inside." 0. K.
Luminous basket on shelf, shelf placed by Ci·andon, basket by
Webster. Rocked off to floor several times but finally rocked three
times in bright red light. Levitated in large arc and from side to
side and then thrown to back of cabinet. Hand controls checked
by Mrs. Hale and ' iVebster, who also checked foot control.
Shelf removed by Crandon. Large megaphone i~ cabinet by
Webster. L evitated to about four feet and then out in front of
cabinet and from there to floor.
Walter started talking, [and a long paragraph of the record
devoted ~o. his conversation is omitted].
VCO brought in at 36th minute of seance. Inspected by Web-
ster. Johnson unlocks collar. 'iVebster puts mouthpiece in place.
Dark. ' iValter tells the Psychic to blow it up. 'iVhistles beautifully
and repeats t est poem in very loud·whisper which had many of the
qualities of a hoarse voice.7
Crandon's and Dudley's mouths under
control. VCO again checked by Webster i'n white light, as before.
Psychic released by Johnson. Sitting started in old cabinet at
40th minute of seance. Circle : Psychic, Webster, Mrs. Lin_dsay,
J ol).nson, Mrs. vVebster, Mrs. Bingham, Mrs. Hale, Crandon. Mrs.
Stinson behind Mmes. Lindsay and Bingham; Dudley behind Mrs.
Bingham and Webster. Walter manifested almost as soon as light
was out. [A long paragraph devoted to .his humorous remarks is
eliminated.]
1 See open reference No. 19, Vol. 2.
SEANCE RECORDS OF OUT ST ANDING CH ARACTER 411
Bell-box picked up by :Mrs. H ale, who turns around while it
rings. Set s it down. Again in red light picked up by Mrs. Lindsay,
same result. Picked up by Johnson, who turns around, hands it to
Mrs. H ale, to Mrs. Bingham, to Mrs. VVebst er, to Mrs. Lindsay, to
V
Vcbster , who goes t o front of room, turns around, returns to t able.
E xamined then by vVebst er in white light. Ring ing startcd and
stopped in red light each t ime, except last time when it stopped in
white light.
Scales brought t o t able by Crandon. E xamined while balancing
without load, in white light. V\T
ebster t akes weights. Da rk. L ight.
\Vcbster puts one on cast pan. Unbalanced. Dark. Crandon says
gravity is working; Walter says levity is working. Light ; \iValtei·
is right. V\Test pan down on base. \Vebst er passes arm between
Psychic and scales; Mrs. H ale between Crandon and scales. VVeb-
stcr passes hand over west pan, Mrs. Hale under east pan. Dark.
\Valter t ells W ebster t o remove west pan and hold it in hand, keep-
ing it level. Light west pan removed. Scales unbalance to cast.
Crandon plays light on scales and on pan which \Vebster holds in
left hand. W ebster replaces west pan and scales again go down on
that ·side. Dark. Crandon says that W ebst er tipped the pan on
edge as he held it, and asks \Valter how he st ayed on. " Oh, I'm
used to that by this t ime; I hung on by my eye t eeth." vValter
t ells W cbster to put all weights in either pan and Webst er puts
them in east pan. Scales unbalance although previously somewhat
unbalanced toward west. Dark. Light. W est pan down on base.
\iVcbster passes hand around and over pan and around beam. Mrs.
Hale feels under cast pan. Dark. Walter tells the P sychic that as
soon as light comes on she is to leave the circle. Light; scales
balance five-to-none ; P sychic leaves circle and st ands near book~
case at west of room. Scales continue to balance while Crandon
plays white light on beam and pans. P sychic returns to circle in
red light. Dark. Walter t ells Johnson to lift scales. Light.
Johnson lifts them about eighteen inches, while they balance, in red
light. Then Crandon plays white flashlight on scales and under-
neath and on t able.
Tot al duration of seance, one hour six minutes.
The above scales episode, like the earlier ones of the p resent ·chap-
ter, anticipat es Chapter XXXVI. The latter chapter in fact would
better have preceded the p resent one ; but this fact was not observed
until after the pages had been numbered and numerous cross-references
had been made to them; so that the transposition which clarity suggests
is vetoed by expediency.
CHAPTER XXXV
The Further History of the Bell-Box
By the Editor
L ike the VCO machine, the illuminated basket and the wooden
letters, the bell-box ( SAB model) passed through a more or less
definite evolution toward better performance under better conditions,
and then settled down into an approximately standard performance
for the standa:rdized seance. we have traced its history through
the developmental st age ;1
it remains now for us to chronicle its routine
use and to mention whatever of outstanding performance this led to.
We left the SABin Chapter XXVII at the point where it had twice
been used in the glass cabinet , under conditions not particularly
impressive. On November 18th, which has already been noted2
as the
sitting in which the germ of the standardized seance using both
cabinets was first seen, it was used in the old cabinet rathei· than in
the glass one ; and during the period in which the double seance was
emerging out of its chrysalis, this instrument was used only on nights
when the old cabinet came into play. Dat es and engineers (sitters
who stood up and moved about holding the ringing box ) of the feature-
less performances, and details of the feature ones, are as follows:
Nov. 18th, 1925: Bishop.
D ec. 11th: Bixler . "The experiment came to an end when the
box accidentally came into contact with Mrs. Brainerd's head." Under
a theory of fraud one would have to visualize it as thus receiving a
sharper jar than it ordinarily receives when set down on the table.
Under a theory of genuineness this is not the case, since other factors
than the physical shock may have caused the cessation.
Dec. 12th: Graham.
D ec. 15th: McComas, twice; the second time with unusual " irregu-
lar intermittency" of ringing.3
Dec. 19th : an unusual display of the visible ringing of the box
by the teleplasmic hand; see page 452 for the full record.
J an. 13th, 1926: ringing in darkness only, "with luminous con-
1 Chaps. X, XI, X XVII.
2 See page 348.
B
For discussion of this term, see J our., A.S.P.R.; July 1926, p. 390.
•412
THE FURTHER HISTORY OF THE BELL-BOX 413
trol of Margery's wrists and Crandon's left, and contact control of
Margery's feet."
Jan. 18th: Morse, Miner.
Jan. 21st: Miss Ball.
Jan. 23rd: Holmes, Mrs. Baker.
Jan. 24th : Ridgway, Mrs. Hodges.
Jan. 26th: See full record, p. 370; and compare Dunlap's experi-
{·nce here with Mrs. Crunden's to which we immediately come.
Feb. 3rd: this is one of the most important episodes ever obtained
with the bell-box; for "'i\T
alter rang the bell intermittently, and even
stopped and started it on request while M1·s. Grunden (a perfect
stranger despite the temptation to confuse her name with the Psychic's)
.stood u.p and turned completely m·ound with the bell-box in he1· hands."
The critic who adheres to the notion that these red-light ringings
{)f the bell while carried about are due to tampering with the spring
will, of course, have to deny that this happened; he cannot explain
it away. If he asks why it doesn't occur oftener, I can only say that
'Valter pictures his command over the foot-loose bell-box as not
ordinarily clean-cut enough to permit it. He can start and stop the
ringing from moment to moment as he finds himself able ; but doing this
to order he says is altogether too extravagant of force. "\i\Thether
you like this plea or not, is your own affair; I merely quote Walter.
Feb. 4th brought out another incident strongly contradictory
Df the tampered-spring theory. Griscom and Gerald were the engi-
neers. !he latter was so enthusiastic in his handling of the box that
he struck it against the chandelier; whereupon the ringing stopped
for some ten seconds. Under the theory it is difficult to see just
how one could so strike the box as to bring about this result; certainly,
if the contact board hit the chandelier, as seems most likely to happen
in view of the uppermost position of the former and the height of the
latter, the bell ought to ring more persistently. But if one ignore this
difficulty, one must at least grant that after a blow putting it out
of contact for ten seconds, during which Gerald continued to move
the box at least sufficiently to bring it back to the table, the spring
Dught to be so hopelessly out of a contact position as to require fresh
manipulation in order to ring the bell. But the bell rang just as Gerald
got it back to the table.
Feb. 21st: Mr. and Mrs. Pierson.
Feb. 22nd: von Reuter, Mrs. Greene.
414 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Feb. 25th: N. Gray, C. L. Hyde, T. Hyde. "At the end of one of
these experiments he allowed C. L. Hyde to lift the flapper of the
box to see that there was nothing under it, then to restore it to its
normal position; after which the bell rang intermittently." That it
would do so if the ringing occurred as a result of manipulating the
spring is not at all obvious.
Feb. 27th: O'Brien, Major Stimpson.
March 4th: Van Arsdale, Miss Lohman. " The box was then
deposited in Van Arsdale's lap; he kept it until after the sitting, when
he examined it to his satisfaction." Are we asked to believe that
Margery restored the spring to non-contact position while the box
lay on VanArsdale's lap, and without his observation?
March 5th: Weston. While vVeston had the box in air, Ellis
raised and replaced the flapper; the bell resumed its ringing.
March 8th: Sawyer, Reilly; and Sawyer was given the same test
that Van Arsdale had on the 4th.
March 12th: Bradley, the Mmes. Bigelow. "While the bell was
ringing, he allowed a white flash-light to be played on it and it continued
ringing intermittently, though Walter said later that it dissolved his
material." This test, of course, has no bearing upon the hypothesis
of fraud by a tampered spring.
March 21st: A. Gray, Wilson. .The test of lifting and lo,~eri ng
the flapper while the box was being carried becomes at about this date
a matter of routine.
March 22nd: Swift, Collier.
March 23rd: Davis.
March 27th: Overstreet, Mrs. Wilde.
March 30th : Johnston.
April l st: engineer not named.
April 4th: Murray, Clinton and N. Gray, one after another m
~ single interval of light. Cli:p.ton was " then " directed to verify that
it did not ring wh~never picked up; whether in the same·light interval
does not appear.
April 6th: Rogers, Bixler, Harlow and one of the ladies, all in
one episode as on the 4th. The same additional test was made with
'the same ambiguity in the record.
April lOth: Holmes and four others in succession.
April 15th: see full record, page 397. .
April 23rd: see my full record of page 401. The bell-box is not
I
)
THE F URTHER HISTORY OF THE BE LL-BOX 415
ordinarily used in the glass cabinet , constituting rather a part of the
routine of the open cabinet. T he present episode is very important,
not alone on the general ground that it denies t he hypothesis that this
distinction is due t o the necessities of fraud ; but equally because the
fraud by tampering with the spring would be so utterly out of the
question in the glass cabinet.
April 29th: see full record by T illyard, Chapter X LII.
May 5th: carried "from hand to hand."
May 8th: handed in turn t o every sitter.
May 14th: see D udley's record, page 409.
May 16th: Murray, Miss Comstock.
May 18th: "sitters " unnamed.
May 19th: " all the sitters."
May 23rd: Riddle, Davis.
May 26th: Pier ce, T aylor.
June 1st: Marston ; Carter followed by all other sitters, in an
extremely long test, with the flapper being raised and lowered by each
person who took the box, and with the test at the end to show that
the bell does not always ring when picked up. The record sounds
more tl~an usually as though this occurred in the same red-light
interval, but is not specific on the point.
June 8th : Manney.
June 18th: Pierson, followed by all others.
June 29th, July 2nd, July 6th: all without mention of individual
sitters.
July 7th: Allinson, Mrs. Floyd.
July 15th, 19th, 26th: no mention of individual sitters.
Aug. 24th: "Ellsworth."
Sept. 2nd: no mention of engineer.
Sept. 15th : Over street; first alone, later followed by five others.
Oct. 1st: Hamlin.
Oct. 13th: Van Allen alone ; then followed by seven other sitters.
Oct. 19th: an item comparable to those of J an. 26th and F eb. 3rd.
Mrs. Hill was acting as engineer ; and the bell r ang in red light on
the t able, before she had touched it to pick it up. It was silent as the
light went on, then rang ; and it continued to ring for a considerable
time, probably until after she picked it up though this is not alto-
gether clear from th!'l record. In any event, it rang a good peal, and
not the single tinkle which would have been got by pulling off a pre-
416 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
viously connected thread. Bond then engineered the bell-box and had
the same e:r:pe1·ience.
Nov. 4th: Samuel, Thwaites.
Nov. 6th: Levinson; first alone, then followed by others. ·" He
then came back to the table and the box was in turn passed through
the hands of every sitter. During this time it rang at irregular
intervals and was examined in red light and white at the end of the
same period." Whether to conclude from this that the box stopped
ringing spontaneously and permanently, and was then examined with-
out interval of darkness; or that it was examined while being passed
about and while ringing intermittently-this is not clear.
Nov. 16th: engineer not named.
Nov. 19th: W eigle, McComas. " During all this time the box
rang intermittently and irregularly, and was then examined in the
same period of red light with addition of white flashlight." This at
last seems reasonably clear , and it seems self-evident to me that we
have a chronicle of bell-box action which, in its totality, will yield to
no theory of fraudulent operation.
j
.J
CHAPTER XXXVI
The Rehabilitation of the Scales
By the Editor
Chapters XXXV, XLII and XLIII of M. M. chronicle the placing
before Walter, by Comstock, of an ordinary chemical balance from the
laboratory; the development of levitation phenomena using such bal-
ances, with unequal weights on the two pans; and the development, by
Comstock, of bigger and better and more nearly fraud-proof balances.
The story there terminates with the, performance of July 20th, 1924;
and with the statement that "on August 3d they had passed so
d.efinitely out of the picture that they were removed from the table and
laid distinctly aside."
The scales remained in the seance room after thus passing out of
the picture, however; and every once in so often the possibility of
returning to their use would be discussed by the sitters, or even by
'iValter. The first real move in this direction came on October 4th,
1925; the scales were ready for use on that evening but Walter said
that he would resume with them some other time. They are next heard
of on March 16th, 1926. There is no indication in the records for
immediately preceding dates of any agreement or discussion with
'iValter leading up to this evening's restoration of the balance as a
standard seance tool; but I imagine such discussion must have taken
place, if only because of the matter-of-fact way in which the present
record brings them in, without explanation of any sort, plus the way
in which this seance was given over wholly to the scales. The record
reads:
Walter came through promptly and promised us shortly that he
would make some paraffin gloves of hands such as the world had
never seen.1
He then call ed for the scales to be put on the table
and it was so done. He then asked that they be arranged with four
weights in the east and none in the west and later four in the cast
and one in the west pans. This was done and after a lot of pre-
liminary fiddling in the dark, the light was turned on and the scales
1 The superlative character of any performance is of course always a matter of
opinion. With this reservation, it is to be pointed out (see Chapter XLI) that the
present promise, which few or none of the sitters could have taken very seriously,
was made good within three months.-J. M. B.
417
418 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
were balancing perfectly with a load of four to one. This was
repeated several times. ' "'alter then directed Dudley to lift plat-
form, scales and all while thus balancing and at that time Richard-
son was to feel under the table and swing his whole arm in an arc
down between the Psychic and the t able, showing there was no
connection.
Next, while the scales were balancing, with these uneven loads
Richardson was told to lift the pan near him off the scales but to
hold it horizontally "for fear I get spilled." This was don·2 and
when the pan was off gravity worked, but immediately the pan was
restored to the west end of the balance, the balance against gravity
at once reappeared. The seance was held in the open cabinet.
The description of the scales and of their manner of use as set
down on pages 344-5 of M. M . must now be modified in connection.with
their restoration to activity at the date to which we come. The pro-
vision for electrical recording was abandoned; the mercury basins
were left empty in the platform and the trailing wires were dismantled
from beneath the pans. The j elly-glasses were also abandoned as a
stand for the unit, since this was to be brought to the table by a sitter,
placed by him at random, and freely displaced during the seance; it
was felt that under such conditions the glasses would give no additional
safeguard against wires or threads, and would increase the danger of
accident to the scales. The celluloid cover too, unless specifically·
mentioned, may now be assumed to have been absent. And one omission
in the existing description must be made good.
In all precision balances it is customary to mount small riders on
the horizontal beam. These may be moved back and forth, and fas-
tened in any position by set-screws. The purpose is to enable an exact
balance to be struck between the two sides of the unit at any time,
regardless of t emporary conditions of temperature, etc., etc. If the
scales do not balance exactly, one rider or the other may be moved
until they do. Riders of this sort were present on Comstock's final
No. 4 scales from the beginning o£ their use; the photographs of the
present volume will show their size and location, and the grooves in
which they run. They are not ordinarily used in the seances, since it
.is not ordinarily a matter of moment whether the empty scales balance
'perfectly. But they will occupy a prominent place in Ch_
ap_
. _
XLV_.
and we must therefore have their physical character before us.
After the start obtained on March .16th the scales continued .to
occupy a prominent place in Walter's attention/ ' On the 17th there
PLA'l'E 33. THE SCALES AS CSED DURING 1926, POSED IN NOltMAL UNBALANCE HORS DE LA SEANCE. A'l' 'l'HE LEF'l' END OF 'l'HE UPPER
ARM WILL BE SEEN 'l'TIE RIDER 'l'HROUGH WHICH SMALL ADJUS'l'MENTS' TOWARD PERFECT BALANCE MAY BE MADE. NOTE ALSO 'l'HE
KNIFE-EDGE SUSPENSION OF 'l'HE PANS, AND 'l'HE POINTER FOR ACCUR.A'l'E ESTIMATE OF '1'1
-
IE DEVIA'l'ION FROM EXACT BALANCE.
THE POSITION OF 'l'HE PANS IN THIS VIEW ILLUSTRATES THEIR NORMAL SENSITIVENESS TO THE DIFFERENCE IN WEIGHT OF A SINGLE
CHECKER.
THE REHABIL ITATION OF T HE SCALES 419
was again a complete seance, given over to them. There seems to be
sufficient of interest in the two records, one by Cr andon and one by
certain other sitters, to warrant giving them both in full:
On account of the health of the medium we expected only a quiet,
simple sitting with a good deal of red light ;_and, therefore, with
less careful control because of the nature of the phenomena ex-
pected. The circle had careful contact only with the medium's left
hand and F. H .'s right hand.
w·alter came through promptly with the familiar whistle in
fine form. After a few sent ences in a whisper, the small megaphone
was used for perhaps three minutes and then dr opped with a clatter
on the floor.
W alter selected the scales for demonstration. We examined
the wooden t able, without any metal screws or points, the wooden
stand beneath the scales and the apparatus. It was very difficult
to est ablish an exact balance, or to k eep the pans from swinging
and the cross bar from oscillation. The wooden weights or ch€ck-
ers were examined.
At first one checker, then two were on one pan with the other
empty. Soon after there were four versus one. After a few min-
utes of preparation and conversation, in which W alter said, " Go
on and t ell a story. Don't pay any attention to me ; I've got t o
work this up first," we heard the scales being moved, and under red
light saw the pans in equal balance, absolutely quiet . In succeed-
ing moments of red light the right pan was hard down on the table,
quite against gravity principles.
There followed a dozen various demonstrations. The pans at
w·alter's suggestion were repeat edly moved about, held level, " So
you won't spill me off," he said; then replaced. Afterward the
scales were lifted, the table searched; E llis passed hands and body
between t able and medium. Then Kent and E ddy sear ched the
surrounding air, examined the scales in good clear red light.
vValter's sense of humor was very active. H e likes this sort of
play. It presents a paradox. For inst ance, Mrs. Eddy said:
" Gravity works until Walter st eps in." Quick as a flash \iValter
laughed and said, " Then levity comes," with a very pat double
meaning.
W e then in red light transferred the weight on the right pan in
case anything was influencing its position on the scales. Within
ten seconds after leaving the pans swinging and changed, W alter
called for red light again. They were held steady, immovable, and
in absolute balance as \iValter chuckled : "Absolute gravity, you
see."
420 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
We commented on the delicacy necessary to establish an im-
movable even balance. We had tried for several minutes without
success, the bar swinging back and forth. There seemed to be
greater accuracy present than we could exert in full light. Then
Walter suggested that Eddy examine the pan at the level of his
nose, under the white flash light (rarely permitted). There was
evidently nothing visible. He was told to hold the pan level for
the reason given above..
Eddy asked W alter if he would speak in two different places
with the maximum variation convenient. The first voice evidently
was fifteen inches to the left of the medium's head, as last seen in
the red light; and immediately within one second eighteen inches
to the right-a distance of between two and two and a half feet.
But Walter said we would have a full evening on the voice soon, and
he did not want to try out anything new but the scales.
The trance was light throughout. Walter was in strength and
in very clever and chatty mood. He seemed happy and deeply
interested with the demonstration. After the sitting the discussion
touched upon the accuracy and delicacy of adjustment, a1id the
principles involved to assert a steady balance between unequal
weighted pans or the apparent increase of weight in the right pan
by any means discernible. ·vve again searched the scales for thread
or wire, or any possible intervention. Walter said he was using
no visible terminal, but merely an energy under his directing will.
The question of the visibility of this possibly psychic terminal in
ultraviolet rays, and a moving picture film t aking this terminal,
closed a most interesting evening.
(Signed) Albert K ent
D. Brewer Eddy
Josephine R. Eddy
Arthur M . Ellis
The above record is self-explanatory; we now pass to Crandon's :
Sitting in the open cabinet, the scales were in position on
the table in front of the Psychic. Before the sitting all sitters
examined the scales, lifted the!D up and completely satisfied them-
selves as to their condition. The six checkers used as weights
were examined and tested by Eddy and st ayed in his possession.
Walter came through promptly and indulged in lively repartee;
one line w ~.s a very good double entendre. Eddy said, "When
Walter comes in, gravity departs." 'Valter in.stantly added, "And
levity comes in." The experiments were as follows:
THE REHABILITATION OF THE SCALES 421
\iValter sh<;nved in red light an empty west pan swinging up and
down in perfect balance over against the east pan with three weights
in it. He then did the same with one in the west and four in the
east. l-Ie then showed four against one balancing perfectly with-
out any swing. This is a thing we are almost unable to do nor-
mally because the balances are so sensitive that they swing like a
pendulum for many minutes. Walter now directed Eddy to stand
up and carry out an experiment as follows :
The balances were swinging, perfectly balanced, with a load of
three to nothing. Eddy picked up the empty pan whereupon grav-
ity immediately dropped the full east pan. Holding the empty
pan horizontally (by direction) close under his nose, Eddy exam-
ined the empty pan while Crandon turned a bright white search-
light on it. The pan appeared to all to be empty. Eddy now put
it back in its holder on the west side, whereupon ·it immediately
lifted and balanced the east pan containing three weights. Next,
by direction, Eddy shifted the pans, east to the west, west to the
east, so that the west now had four and the east one. Walter
immediately balanced them as well as he had the other way.
Next, by direction, the four-to-one load was balanced in red
light. Eddy put his hand along the bar of the balances and all
round every side of them while at the same time Ellis, using his
right arm, cleaver-fashion, brought it down from the level of the
Psychic's head to her feet between her and the balances on the table.
H e encountered nothing.
Asked about it, Walter said that he put a substance which
might be called energy on the unweighted pan; that is about all
he knew about it.
The record for March 21st informs us, incidentally, that a sitting
was attempted on the 20th, resulting in total blank. These blanks do
not always get recorded; Crandon counts them as approximately
thirty in the four years, plus, of the mediumship. The sitting of the
21st was apparently intended as part of the scales sequence, the other
phenomena offered being a spontaneous move on Walter's part. The
entire record may therefore be inserted at this point:
Sitting in the old cabinet, \iValter came through in spite of
the total blank of the night before, saying about that episode
merely that he did not have enough force to come through.
After a lot of talk and repartee and answering q~'~stions for various
sitters, he proceeded to work on the balances and there he made a
four-to-one, three-to-none and finally a four-to-none balancing
422 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
stunt. He allowed vVilson to lug the scales round the room while
he maintained this balancing contrary to gravity. He allowed the
empty pan to be taken off and inspected in white light and when
pan was restored to its position on the scales again balancing of
nothing against four reestablished itself, all in the same period of
red light.
Walter next put through the stunts of the bell-box ; ringing it
intermittently while both A. W . Gray and Wilson lugged it round
the room, lifting it high and low, turning the flapper back, both
quite unable to explain it.
Next the Dingwall bell-box, not vitalized, was put on the t able
and Walter proceeded to make it glow at will, even when hands
were upon it.
After the preliminaries of these three sittings had been disposed of,
Walter's command over the scales seemed established ; and he now
abandoned the special sittings for the balance work, making this a part
of the standardized sittings. Thus, on March 22d:
The scales were now brought forth, and Walter balanced first
a two-to-nothing and then a four-to-nothing load. He maintained
this phenomenon in action while Baker carried the whole scales
around the room. When they were returned to the table, the
empty west pan was lifted by Swift, whereupon the loaded east pan
fell sharply. The west pan was now examined with a white flash
and found to be apparently empty. It was put back, having been
carefully held horizontally all the time. At once the apparent
anomaly of the balance between empty and loaded pans was re-
established. All this was in the same period of bright r ed light.
The scales gave a featureless performance in the standardized
seance of March 23d ; then, on the 27th:
Walter now proceeded to the scales and successfully balanced in
red light a two-to-nothing and then a four-to-one load. He then
allowed Overstreet to take the empty pan out and verify its appar-
ent emptiness; then to put it back on ; whereupon gravity again
ceased to work as it had during the absence of the·pan, and the
four-to-one load balanced perfectly. He then allowed Overstreet
to pick up the scales while it was balancing a four-to-one load; the
balance was undisturbed, with gentle oscillation up and down.
With the scales now a recognized feature of the standardized
seance, we find some performances which need be cited only by date;
THE REHABILITATION OF 'I'HE SCALES 423
with others involving some element that requires a complete quotation
from the record. Of these latter occasions I find the following:
March 30th: The scales were brought to the table and Walter
produced balancing with a two-to-nothing load and then with four-
to-nothing. He did this both statically and with the scales in
motion as they balanced.1
a H e then allowed Johnston to pick of-f
the empty pan. Gravity at once came into play. W"hen the empty
pan was put back on the empty west arm of the scales, it at once
lifted the opposite weighted pan; all this being in the one period
of red light. Eddy was allowed to put his forefinger on the loaded
pan to estimate the weight that w·alter was exerting.
March 31st: The scales were carefully examined and calibrated
by Hill before sitting. Walter balanced a two-to-nothing and then
a four-to-nothing load, both statically and in oscillation. While
this balancing was going on Hill, Dudley and Richardson severally
put an arm down in a vertical plane between Margery and the
table from the height of her head to the floor; another put a pencil
back and forth between the base of the unit and the bottoms of the
balancing pans ; and a third passed his hands all around the scales
above and below and in close relationship to the top bar. The
phenomenon continued throughout all this. Next the west pan was
taken off while balancing the loaded east pan, and now the empty
frame at the west continued to weight down t.he loaded east pan.
This it will be seen is a variation from previous experience; hereto-
fore when the apparently empty pan has been removed the other one
has crashed. It therefore appears that vValter's influence upon the
scales is not a fixed quantity, but is variable at his pleasure. The
rather obscure wording of the following record means that the two
experiences were given consecutively on the same date; the first time
the empty pan was removed the loaded one crashed and the second
time it remained suspended in air:
Apr. 1st: 'Valter demonstrated the presence of his force in
the empty pan when this was taken off and returned ; then its pres-
ence on the brass framework on repetition of the experiment; the
load was four-to-none. H e showed this four-to-nothing balance
with the sitters passing their hands between Margery and the
1 a If the distinction between a st atic and a dynamic balancing of the unequally
loaded pans is not immediately clear from these adj ectives, M. M. may be consulted
(p. 281) for further details.-J. M. B.
424 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
scales; and all abuut everywhere; and finally he showed the same
balance contrary to gravity under the glare of a bright white flash.
Apr. 4th: The scales was placed on the table and found to
balance truly. A four-to-one load was placed, west and east
respectively. ·w·alter immediately balanced this load in red light
and later showed the pans oscillating. Next he directed that the
pans, loaded as they were, be interchanged ; and he again made
them oscillate in true bala·nce. He then allowed Clinton, while they
hung even with the four-to-nothing load, to pass a pencil freely
under the pans. H e increased t he load to five-to-none without loss
of result. Brown picked the empty east pan off, and the west pan
with five weights balanced with the empty east frame. Under these
same conditions \iValter allowed a match to be struck and the scales
was carefully examined in this light while the five-to-none balance
remained perfect.
On April 6th the scales performance added nothing new; but there
is a bit of novelty in the record for the lOth:
The scales was put on the table and ' 'Valter performed many
permutations. H e balanced two-to-none, four-to-none, five-to-one
and five-to-none loads, both statically and dynamically. During
the periods of balancing he allowed anyone to pass a pencil or place
a hand under either or both pans. At one time the white flashlight
was played upon the entire unit for inspection. At another time
the empty pans wer e found balancing. Holmes took the west pan
off, whereupon the east pan went down, normally so far as could be
judged. H e put the apparently empty west pan back, and it now
went down and remained down as though weighted. Similar experi-
ences were had with empty pan vs. no pan; then with both sides
of the balance stripped of their pans.
On the 15th there was the usual performance, plus one new feature:
Richardson was permitted to pick the entire bulky scales unit off the
table while it was in levitation, and the balance between the unequally
weighted pans persisted undisturbed.2
On the 17th, the scales were
brought out of the atmosphere of the standardized sitting for a little
special study, as the following record makes clear:
This evening was devot ed to a study of the phenomena of the
balances. Preceding the sitting Little calibrated them to an
approximation of accuracy and examined them thoroughly.
· 2 See page 399.
THE R E H ABILITATION OF THE SCAL ES 425
w·alter came t hrough p romptly and greet ed E kland in a most
friendly way. H e then proceeded to balance a 4- 1 load and t hen
a 4-0 load, either pan being selected and the weights put on by D r.
Little. H e then balanced a four load over against no pan. H e
then balanced a one load against empt y pan, empty pan was
removed, gravity reappeared, empt y pan put on and it promptly
levitat ed the loaded pan, showing that "Valter's substance remained
on the empty pan. During these experiments Little and Dennett
freely cut long planes with their arms down between the P sychic
and the table, and between Crandon and the t able. Little freely
examined the scales, during a flash of white light, wJ:lile in levitation.
'iValter gave a brief exhibition of his power to vitalize an area
of the luminous paint even with a hand resting on it.
Again on the 18th the glass cabinet was ignored and the entire
seance was held in the old cabinet with major attention upon the scales:
'iValter came through in good mood, list ened to some organ
music for a while and then ordered a more lively tune. H e devoted
himself to the scales with the addition of the celluloid cm,eT.3
Under these conditions he levitat ed 4-1, and at one time, while the
victrola was being adjusted, maintained this balance for 80 sec-
onds. ALL I N GOOD RED LIGHT.4
At another time, while levi-
t ation 4-1 was present under the celluloid cover, the P sychic, under
instructions, got up and left the room and then came back. During
all this time, at least 50 seconds, the levitation of the scales was
maintained.
Crandon observed that it appeared that Walter put something
on the·empty pan, because just before the light went on the celluloid
cover was tipped up so it hit Crandon's forehead.
I need not here repeat the det ails of the scales performance given
in my presence5
on April 23rd, nor that shown to Tillyard on April
29th.6
The scales action of May 5th needs be cited only by title ;
likewise that of the 8th. On the 14th,6
a not only was the white flash
allowed, as was now becoming so usual, but a five-to-none balance was
maintained while Margery left the cabinet, and again while Johnson
picked the entire scales unit up clear of the t able. For the 16th we
need the record :
s M y italics.- J. M. B.
4 Crandon 's emphasis.- .J. M. B.
G Sec pages 405-6.
a Sec page '189.
na Sec page 411.
4!26 THE MARGERY MEDIU.MSHIP
The scales was brought out and Walter got a one-to-none bal-
ancing perfectly while all kinds of examination and tests in red and
white light failed to reveal any normal technique. He then estab-
lished b'alance with a four-to-one load, and had the celluloid cover
put on while this balance was present; this balance was now shown
to us statically, then swinging. Finally with the celluloid cover
and a four-to-none load, Murray stepped into the cabinet and lifted
the whole unit: scales, cover and platform beneath. Easy swinging
balance was maintained throughout this experiment, covering a
minute and a half in good red light, with white flash to examine the
details. Walter then " extricated " himself/ and gravity was seen
to be working as usual.
On May '18th the scales performance included a dynamic balancing
of a five-to-none load with Margery out of the cabinet. During the
latter days of the month four records were got from which I must
quote bodily:
May 19th: The scales was brought out; it did a one-to-none
load, a one-checker-to-no-pan load, and a five-to-none load, both
static and dynamic. This last he maintained with a good swinging
action after Margery left the cabinet, and with good white flash-
light playing on it. Emerson was allowed to pick up the whole
balance unit while the one-to-none load balanced truly.
May 23rd : The scales was brought out and Walter did the
one-to-nothing, the one-to-no-pan and the five-to-nothing levita-
tions, both static and dynamic. He added a new term to·this. He
balanced the five-to-none load; Margery left the cabinet until she ·
was nine feet away; Davis entered the cabinet and sat in her chair;
Riddle picked up the scales and lifted them eight inches off the
table; a white flash was played all over the outfit; and at the same
time a sitter put his hand above and below the pans, over the bar,
and between Crandon and the table. The scales remained balancing
by levitation until Margery was back in the cabinet, probably
ninety seconds in all, and all in the same period of red light.8
May 26th: The scales was brought out and VValter balanced a
one-to-none, a one-to-no-pan, and a five-to-none load, using either
7 In an interval of darkness.-J. M. B.
s I caution the reader not to conclude that the levitation was terminated in this
red light. This would be contmry to custom and I wholly doubt that the record
means to imply its occurrence.- J. M. B.
THE REHABILITATION OF THE SCALES 427
pan. \Vith the one-to-none load, Pierce took the empty pan off
and gravity asserted itself; when he put this pan back it again
act ed as though the heavier one. Finally, with five-to-none load
balanci~g in red light, Margery left the cabinet, Atkinson entered
it and sat in her chair, Nichols raised the scales six inches clear of
the table, Crandon put his hands and feet in custody of Pierce and
Mrs. Bentley, and a :flashlight was freely played upon the whole
scales unit, while two sitters felt in all parts where it seemed at all
pertinent to feel. All this occurred in one period of red light, and
took some ninety seconds.
June 1st: The scales was now put in action, after being exam-
ined thoroughly in white light. In red light Walter balanced the
one-to-none and the six-to-none loads; in the latter inst ance Smith
having elected on which pan he would put the weights. In the one-
to-none test Marston picked the empty pan off and gravity reas-
serted itself; then he put the empty pan back and it again levitated
the loaded pan. The one-to-none load was then shown in free
oscillation. While the six-to-none load was in balance, Smith picked
up the whole outfit and it was examined thoroughly above and below
in white flashlight.
The scales continued throughout the year to be employed regularly
in the standardized seances (see Chapters XXIX, XXXIV, and
XXXVII) of the sort from which the above episodes are taken. There
was seldom if ever anything new; like the VCO machine, this instrument
seemed to have attained a fixed pattern of demonstration. \Ve may
therefore consider that our discussion of it is closed save in so far as it
~nters into the action of seances of which, on some other ground, we are
obliged to give a complete account. Such a seance will occupy the first
four chapters (XLIV-XLVII) of our second volume; and others will
occur somewhat later to which we can at this moment give only an
open r eference (No. 20 of these).
CHAPTER XXXVII
The Further History of the Standardized Seance
By the Editor
The detailed records given in Chapter XXXIV are typical of the
standardized seances of this period. rrhese seances follow very largely
the same model, yet in many of them there is action sufficiently dis-
tinctive for description in some detail. The generality of the stand-
ardized action, however, need not be so described; to do this would
be an extreme waste of space. I therefore proceed in the present
chapter to give the routine details of all standardized seances for the
balance of 1926 which are not otherwise covered. For some of
these, details of the action that arc worthy of perpetuation are set
down in other and more topical chapters (on bell-box or scales, for
instance) ; for others, I give brief excerpts from the records herein.
April 20th (1926): Identifications (of personal objects, as always
when this word is used, B (basket) levitations. From the record:
During all these cognitions Walter seemed to lift the basket
[ containing the obj ects offered him] up. Hill felt of all controls
between every two experiments, and once when he was so feeling,
the basket brushed across his head about four feet from the floor.
May 5th: letters, identifications, B and l\I (megaphone) levita-
tions (this word will be omitted hereafter) , YCO. (In old cabinet, as
always:) BB (bell-box). .
May 8th: letters, identifications, B, M, VCO. VCO engineered
by James. BB, Sc (Scales ).
May 18th: letters, identifications, B, M, VCO. BB, Sc.
May 19th: letters ( engineered by Cox) , identifications, B, M, VCO
(engineered by Cox). BB, Sc. From the record:
The basket went all over the cabinet, around the Psychic's head
to a height of 5lj
2 feet , and was finally thrown behind her. The
megaphone was lifted not only .in the cabinet but outside the front
thereof to a distance of at least two feet. It was finally put on
the floor1
about 3ljz feet in front, and w·alter was still able to
lift it up and move it about.
1 By the sitters.-J. M. B.
428
FURTHER HISTORY OF STANDARDIZED SEANCE 429
May 23rd: letters, B, M, VCO (engineered by Ridd1e). BB, Sc.
From the record :
[The basket or the megaphone or bothJ went above and behind
the Psychic's head and all over the cabinet. Then the basket
was shown rolling on the shelf in red light. for 30 second~ ; then
there was a new exhibit. The light was turned on, the basket was
seen lying on the shelf in front of the entranced Psychic. vVe could
hear a creaking of the basket as though a hand grasped it, but
we could see nothing of this. The basket then began to roll, in
increasing excursions. All this in red light.
May 26th: letters, identifi cations, B, l\1[, VCO. BB, Sc. From
the record:
Next he levitated the basket all about in every direction, while
at the same moment the sitters confirmed the positions of the
lashed extremities.2
H e finally carried the basket around and
about the Psychic's head and threw it in the back of the cabinet.
Next the three-pound megaphone was levitated all over the cabinet
and on request vValter put his terminal over the upper luminous
ring and eclipsed it. H e finally threw the megaphone out on the
floor, and while it lay there at least two feet from the cabinet
he kicked it about and levitat ed it.
May 28th: letters, identifications, B, M, VCO. BB, Sc. "Jones "3
was present, and part of the time in trance, being apparently used as
a co-medium. The paraffin bucket was present and gave out noises as
though it were being worked with, but the action of the standardized
seance went on through this and constituted the motif of the evening.
The basket was levitated " above and behind the Psychic as far down
as her shoulders, then up and all about, rapping on the roof of the
cabinet." Sitting in the medium's cha1r with the handle of this basket
in my mouth and the basket extended straight up, I find that I cannot
come within eighteen inches of doing this; and my torso is of course
considerably longer than Margery's:1
June 1st: letters (engineered by Marston), identifications, B, M,
\reo. BB, Sc. From the record:
The basket was levitated all over the inside of the cabinet,
behind the Psychic's head and down to the floor in front of her.
2 But not her head.- J. M. B.
s See Chapter XLI.
4 See open reference No. 21, Vol. 2, for the bearing of this observation.
430 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Next the three-pound luminous megaphone was levitated all over
the cabinet and finally thrown out three feet in front of the
P sychic. In this position it was moved about and erected by
Walter's terminal.
June 3rd: letters, ·identifications, B, D (doughnut), M, VCO. In
the old cabinet W alter stated he had little force left and closed without
any further phenomena.
June 6th: letters, identifications, B, M, VCO; and the t eleplasmic
display described later.5
Sc. The identifications included a thimble,
contributed by Dudley and attributed to him by ·w alter.6
June 8th: letters, identifications, B, handkerchief levitation, VCO.
BB, Sc, activation of luminous paint.
June 11th: letter s, identifications; B, M, VCO. BB, Sc:
vValter did movement of t he luminous basket in the red light,
and then levitated the basket for a period twice as long as usual,
with great slowness but sureness of direction, all over the cabinet,
behind the Psychic and down by her feet.
June 15: letters, identifications, B, M, VCO; " all critical action
by sitters was carried out by Diefenbach and H ardy." BB, Sc:
While the basket was rolling on the shelf in red light, Pierson
was permitted to stand and pass his hands freely between the basket
and the entranced medium, encountering no obstacle.
June 18th : letter s, identifications, B. Sc.
June 22nd: letters, identifications, B, D, M, VCO. BB, Sc.
June 25th: letter s, identifications, VCO. BB, Sc.
June 26th: letter s, identifications, B, D, M, VCO (Cobb engineer-
ing ) . BB, Sc::. From the record:
H e said: " give me a big basket as well as a little one; I need
a big one to put my force in." Thereupon he lifted both baskets as
one unit, and levitat ed them all over the cabinet with great crashing
and noise.
June 29th: letters, identifications, B, M, VCO (Hammond engi-
neering). "During these levitations the end sitters were allowed to
confirm the lashed condition of the P sychic." BB, Sc.
G See open reference N o. 22, Vol. 2.
oSee page 438.
I
I
1
FURTHER HISTORY OF STANDARDIZED SEANCE 431
July 2nd: See Chapters XLIV-XLVII.
July 6th: letters, identifications, B, M, VCO. BB, Sc. Signora
Papa was allowed to wave her hands between the Psychic and the
rolling basket.
July 7th: letters, identifications, B, M. BB.
July 19th: identifications, B. BB, Sc, identification of cards.
A memorandum of the seance, prepared for me at my request by Nelson,
reads as follows:
1. Levitation of basket, with luminous rings, six feet or more
above floor and thrown outside of cabinet.
2. Naming of different objects placed promiscuously into
basket. My cigar cutter was immediately identified and thrown out-
side of cabinet.
3. Ringing of bell in box: Just before the sitting and in good
bright white light, I examined this box to my entire satisfaction,
and certify that it was of simple construction, containing only
two dry cells and a common house bell with wire connections to a
piece of board hinged on one side at the top of the box, for the pur-
pose of making the necessary. connection. It was in perfect working
order. I padlocked the box myself. During the sitting this box
was placed on a table in front of "Margery," and in good red
light it rang intermittently. In this same light I lifted the box
off the table, the bell now ringing steadily, a'nd at head's level I
turned round in a complete circle. The bell stopped ringing after
my placing the box on the table again. After this phenomenon
and when the control had ceased operating the bell, to verify that
a constant connection had not been made, I again lifted the box
and verified that there was no constant connection, as the bell
did not ring again. I very particularly kept the box in keen and
constant observation, and certify that during the ringing of the
bell and when it stopped, it was not tampered with by anyone
present.
4. Tipping of scales: With equal observance I examined these
scales which were in perfect working order. In good red light
the scales were ·weighted down, by one of the sitters next to me
in a proportion of four to one. In the same red light the scales
were balanced and made to move up and down, nobody being nearer
than two feet away from them. All hands of those near the table
were perfectly controlled, including "Margery's." These scales
were first on the table. They were lifted by one of the sitters, and
proven to be in as good working condition as when on the table.
432 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
5. Naming of cards select ed outside the room by different
sitters, seen only by those who selected them, and duly marked for
identification. In total darkness, one at a time, selector himself
not knowing which card he had chosen from those selected, cards
were placed on the table and correctly named by control-
" Walter."
(Signed ) 0. P. NELSON.
J uly 26th: letters, identifications, B, M, VCO. For the last-
named, "he introduced a new feature; he had Hyde and Nichols stand
at either side of the door of the cabinet and clasp hands within an inch
of the top of the open tube, to prove that no sitter tampered with
this." BB, Sc.
July 28th: the first five minutes Cr andon was out of the room.
Letters, identifications, B. BB, Sc. From the r ecord:
L evitation of the small basket was done by \i\T
alter's new method
of putting it inside the big one. This levitation was very bril-
liant, going to the roof of the cabinet and making raps every-
where. Finally the whole outfit was pushed out of the cabinet
door and held in mid-air in the center of the circle. While this
position was held, Walter instructed vValton to feel the Psychic's
right hand and follow up her arm to her mouth, where he found
nothing of importance. vValter also pointed out that he spoke
while the basket was actually in levitation.5
Following the seance, the summer was given over for the most part
to experimental work in teleplasmic phenomena ;6
and during Sept em-
ber, most of the standardized seances were part of a sequence which we
must describe elsewhere.7
For the present chapter we have the follow-
ing entries: August 16th: B, baryta water exp eriment of a later page.8
In the old cabinet, instead of the usual performance, Walter gave only
the teleplasmic episode t o which we come lat er.0
September 2nd: letters, identifications, B, VCO. BB, Sc.
October 1st: letters, B. BB, t eleplasmic incident of a later page.10
The record supports a st atement which we have made once or twice
in other chapters and, incidentally perhaps, explains the omission of
some of the usual phenomena when it says :
The P sychic is far from well. Her weight is off twenty pounds;
she is pale and her nervous syst em is more or less ragged. H er
son has just broken his arm. Nevertheless we sat.
s, a, 7, s, 9, 10 See, respectively, open references Nos. 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27 in Vol 2.
I
J
F URTHE R HISTORY OF ST ANDARDIZED SEANCE 433
October 3rd : letters, B, D . BB, Sc. From the record:
w·alter called for a doughnut, which was brought in too bright.
Then he lifted a second doughnut, not so bright, all over the front
of the cabinet. Next the two doughnuts were levitated, on non-
parallel courses and at different speeds ; with each rotating, first
in one plane and then in another, as it rose. Then while both
doughnuts were in air and in motion, Martin put his hand over
the P sychic's mout h and found nothing there; and at that moment
'iValter spoke. ' iVhile the doughnuts were in the air W alter's
t erminal was clearly seen by all. It seemed to be a three-pronged
affair. At one time it crumpled a doughnut ; again one of the tines
was thrust through the hole in a doughnut.
October 13th: letters, identifi cations, B, VCO. BB.
October 19th: letters, identifications, B, D, VCO. BB, Sc. Bond
-engineered most of the episodes; and in view of his p resence an unusu-
ally full record was produced by Crandon. T he phenomena seem to
have :flowed along with rather greater eclat than usual, but there was
nothing really new and no unusually good conditions, so we need give
110 quot ations.
November 4th: identifications, letters, B, VCO. BB, Sc.
November 6th: letters, identifications, B, VCO. BB, Sc.
November 19th : letters, identifications, B, VCO. BB. During
t he basket levitation, Baxter and McComas felt the Psychic's hands,
feet, and mouth.
During the balance of the month, the Crandons were so engrossed
with their p reparations for a vacation trip through the west, covering
t he entire month of D ecember, that no sittings were held. The eve-
ning of December 1st was given over to a small group of friends who
chatted with 'iValter on the eve of the departure. A few seances were
given in various parts of the country incidental "
to the trip, but these
are dealt with elsewhere. 'iVe have accordingly come to a stopping
place, so far as the story of this chapter is concerned. W e accordingly
bring the chapter to a close, pausing only to emphasize that the cita-
tions from the records of July 28th and October 3rd constitute its
high spots.
CHAPTER XXXVIII
Idenification Phenomena in the Glass Cabinet
By the Editor
We have seen 1
how, during the period in which the routine of
·the glass cabinet sittings was being worked out into a tentatively
final form, walter and his sitters did not at all bother about identi-
fications acts-whether of cards, personal objects, or what not. We
have seen how, starting January 5th, 1926, the identification idea was
taken up again,2
but with the aid of a new instrument in Richard-
son's wooden letters. Finally, we have had occasion to record,3
without
comment, the fact that there was a return to the use of personal articles
contributed by the sitters, without any corresponding abatement in the
performance with the wooden letters. But we have seen this only as an
abstract fact; we have not at all gone into details.
The first date after the birth of the glass cabinet on which the
personal identifications were attempted was February 6th, 1926; and
thereafter, at odd moments, Walter reverted to this theme. I give the
following excerpts from the records, without further comment :
February 6th: On [Walter's] request, Holmes put an object
from his pocket on the table. The luminous controls remained im-
mobile, but nevertheless after about three minutes Walter said:
"Take your spectacle case away." As a second experiment, \Val-
ter in the midst of a conversation with Holmes said: " Better
take your pencil off the table and write that down." Both these
identifications were correct.
February 26th: Walter identified several objects taken from
the sitter's pocket under strict conditions of double control, and all
successfully.
March 8th: The next experiment consisted in identification of
an object from the pocket of Sawyer, and second from that of
Reilly.
March 30th: Johnston now put something from his pocket in
the basket, and Walter declared in about a minute that it was a
jack-knife, and threw it on the floor.
1 Chapters XXII (p. 291), XXV, XXVI.
2 Chapter XXVIII. .
s Pages 402, 406, 410; and Chap. XXXVII. See, also, Chap. XXXIX.
434
IDENTIFICATION PHENOMENA IN GLASS CABINET 435
April 1st: He then did cognition of a pencil of Cotton's and
a pocketbook of .Joy's.
April 15th: In addition to the letters, he told Richards to put
some object from his own pocket into the basket. Walter identified
this as a note-book, correctly.
April 20th: Hill was asked to put something in the basJ,et. He
did so, and put the basket [as usual] in the right front of the
cabinet. After a minute Walter laughed, and said: " Did you
get that at the Harvard Club? 4
[There was quite a bit of chaffing
between Walter and Hill at this point, together with a slightly
off-color double entendre by Walter, making it evident that he had
recognized Hill's object as the wire suspension from a pad of toilet
paper. The record gives this in full; and after some chatting with
Mrs. Richardson about the circumstances of his world and about
Mark and John,] Walter then recognized in the basket a package
of paper matches put in by Ekland. Mrs. Richardson put some-
thing in, and Walter described it as a handerchief rolled up and
with a knot in the end, which was correct.
April 23rd, 24th: See my full records, pp. 402-3, 406-7,
respectively. Careful appraisal of these records makes it appear
to the candid critic that while Walter made quite a go out of the
identification of the various objects offered him on these occasions,
his efforts to attribute them to their several owners exhibit cer-
tainly the results of normal suggestion, if not of conscious norma]
inference. Perhaps the correct viewpoint here is that, in the ob-
vious presence of a necessity for the exercise of a different type of
supernormal cognition, it becomes more difficult to exclude normal
working of the medium's or of vValter's mind. We are familiar
with analogous situations in the ordinary types of clairvoyance and
psychometry, and understand thoroughly that in direct proportion
as the medium's normal mental processes are prevented from inter-
fering with the psychic ones, the success of the latter increases. I
think this comment should be read into pp. 440-1 of Dudley's
Chapter XXXIX. And in this same connection, I should like to
point out that after Dudley has contributed a plurality of curious
"feminine appurtenances " of his own invention, there is a tempta-
tion to normal inference that he is the owner of any out-of-the-
ordinary object of the sort that turns .up in the basket when he is
present.
~Where Hill customarily went of an evening.-J. M. B.
436 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
April 29th: VValter next asked Dr. and Mrs. Tillyard each to
put something personal in the basket. This was done; and W al-
ter promptly threw them out and named them as a brooch, and
a pair of tweezers in a cloth case. These identifications were
perfect.G
In addition to the above episodes, the p eriod covered by these
citations saw also the identifications given in the detailed records
of Chapter XXXIV. I ought also to point out that, as implied by
several of the above entries, a p rocedure gradually grew up during
this period under which the objects for identification were collected
in one of the luminously marked baskets, by Crandon or some other
sitter (more usually some other), and placed in the cabinet in this
bas1
(et. The collection was usually taken in such a way that the
sitter handling the basket would be aware only by accident of the
nature of each individual's contribution; but of course, equally he
would, except by accident, be aware of who had and who had not
contributed.
The recording, it will be observed, is quite spotty. Sometimes the
nature of the artiCles involved is specified, sometimes not; sometimes the
contributors are named, sometimes not. There is, of course, no more
reason why we should attempt a complete and detailed account of
all the episodes under this head than all those under any other. And
I think I may very well t ake advantage of 'Dudley's offer to assume
the burden of describing such identifications as, in his more frequent
presence, have occurred in such a way as to impress him and lead him
to his independent recording.
s Cf. Tillyarcl 's recorcl, pp. 484 ff.
CHAPTER XXXIX
Walter's Cog-nitions During- the Sunimer and Fall of 1926
By E. E. Dudley
Among the varied phenomena of Margery's seance room there is
one group that presents many interesting problems: the cognition
of personal objects in complete darkness. All sorts of opportunities
arise for statements by Walter revolving about the use, the associa-
tions and the ownership of the articles as well as about their mere
names. Frequently some or all these elements are unknown to some
or all of the sitters. Walter shows an ability to identify articles with
good speed, and to deal rather well with questions of form, color, tex-
ture, odor and special uses. The character ~f the control, whether
personal or mechanical, seems to affect the results not at all.
Walter always gives his descriptions of the articles vocally. Of
course to say that this voice is independent when the VCO machine
is not in use at the moment may lay one open to criticism. However,
the Walter voice shows no perceptible change in any of its qualities
under this control, and for this reason I assume the propriety of call-
ing the vocal effect independent in all cases. There is usually good
indication that the article under identification has been levitated or
otherwise manipulated in a fashion clearly supernormal.
I propose no very serious attempts at interpretation, but merely
an intelligent cataloguing of certain incidents occurring, for the better
part, in my presence. On June 3rd, 1926, the basket collection was
taken up by Wiggin, and he put the basket containing the articles in the
cabinet, on the floor, whence as determined by the sound it was promptly
levitated. This sound indicating the levitation of the basket with its
articles is a regular feature of the identification performance, and may
be assumed always to have occurred unless this is specifically denied.
"\i'\Talter spoke up promptly: "Sairy, this is a bad place for pearls;
better take them before I drop them." Mrs. Litzelmann's pearls
were removed by "\iViggin and restored to her. "Here is a loose-leaf
note-book; I think it belongs to Conant." Conant acknowledged this
and asked how many rings there were on it. Walter: " Let's see: one,
two, three, four, five, six. Six rings and two hinges. Is that right? "
437
438 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Conant had to admit that he didn't know ; subsequent check showed
that \Valter's count was correct. He named the next object as a
mirror, going on: "I'll have to take a look at myself." He was
asked who had put it in. "I don't know; can't get a single vibration
out of it. But if I were to guess, I'd say Miss Off." This was correct.
" A pencil; I'm going to draw a picture of the bride in Conant's book.
I'll draw another of Gerke." There were sounds of rustling paper,
but later examination disclosed no pictures or other marks recognized
by Conant as extraneous. Both Miss Off and Mrs. Wiggin admitted
having put in pencils. Walter then announced a hairpin as belonging
t o Mrs. Gerke (the bride) and a match contributed by Wiggin; both
these were correct.
All identifications here were correct; most of the owners were given
correctly though Walter admitted one of these was a guess. That he
could get no vibrations from the mirror may well be a most signifi-
cant statement. Only six of the sitters contributed anything, and all
contributions were dealt with.
On June 6th there was another instance of identification of an
owner in which the facts were not in accord with the probabilities.
After Overstreet had passed the basket around and \Valter had re-
ceived this, he said almost at once: " Somebody is reckless, putting
glasses in here." Stewart admitted having done so and they were
returned to him, normally. A few seconds later the basket was again
levitated, and Walter said: "Dudley, what's the idea of carrying a
thimble around with you?" This attribution was correct. He threw
the thimble to the floor, and went on t o identify a package of cig-
arettes, a fountain pen, money and other small articles. There were
two ladies present, the thimble was the second article identified and
neither lady had been excluded by the preceding identification, the
thimble had been in my pocket no more than two hours, and it had been
~hown to no one present. Certainly I was far from the most probable
contributor for this article.
The sitting of J nne 8, 1926, was marked by a unique identification
which may shed some light upon the form of the teleplasmic t erminals
and the extent of \IValter's powers of perception. After the basket
had been passed around by Manney, \iValter proceeded to the cogni-
tion of personal articles in the usual manner. He identified a hand-
kerchief saying: "A handkerchief; I am putting it out through the
right-hand hole. It is a lady's handkerchief." (Checked later) Pro-
WALTER'S COGNITION S 439
cceding, he said: " Someone is getting reckless, putting a wat ch in
the basket! Vvait: I am not so sure this is a wat ch. It looks like a
watch but I can't find any place to wind it. . . . No, it isn't a watch,
b'Ut zvhat is it? Somebody knows how to keep quiet; I don't hear a
word! Now just wait a minute. . . . H a, ha ! a compass and it is all
lighted up. See it ? " At this point the compass was held up so that a11
the circle could see the luminous dial and luminous needle. It was
closed when put in the basket and was still closed when the basket
was returned after the remaining art icles, four in number, had been
identified. vVhen asked why he didn't name the owner of the compass
he replied, " I was too busy trying to find out what it was."
A t est of the pressure required to release the catch holding the
cover closed, shows a minimum of 18 ounces and a little experimenting
should convince anyone that a fairly good imitation of a hand is
almost a necessity in manipulating the compass as described.
At the following sitting, on June 11, as soon as the new sitters
had been introduced ' iValter said to me correctly: "Hello, Mr. Com-
pass. Y ou pick the darndest things t o put in the basket." The " col-
lection basket" as he calls it, was passed by T wachtman. ' iValter first
described a bracelet as made up of "two wires with blue stones in
it. Lapis- what's the rest of it?" "It belongs to Mrs. Good-
enough." (Correct) Then he said: " H ere's a comb, I hope there lire
no bugs in it! " Silence for a time, then, "Maybe it isn't a comb.·
. . L et's see. Somebody's got a broad smile on! " vVell ,
we will pass that up for now. H ere's a ring with a stone in it." H e
then discovered a coin, a Canadian five cent piece, he called it, and
attributed it to Arkin, who agreed; but lat er we found that the coin
was an obsolet e U nited Stat es silver five cent piece. Suddenly, "'T
alter
broke out with the question: " Dudley, what d.id you put your rule
in for? " This was correct. It was a 6-inch wooden scale and its
deep graduations did feel somewhat like the t eeth of a comb.
W alter asked T wachtman if he had anything in the basket and,
upon being told that there was something more, asked to have the other
articles removed and the basket returned to the cabinet. In about
ten seconds he said: " H ere, Twachtman, t ake the basket (it was held
out at a convenient height), you will find your tie clasp snapped into
the side of the basket." 'l'his was confirmed by Twachtman who said
that it was loose in the basket when the 1atter was last returned to the
cabinet.
440 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Walter identified the construction of the bracelet, the color of the
stones, but could not get the whole name, lapis lazuli, although, as
was shown after the sitting, this name was perfectly well known to
Margery. The problem of the scale was solved after some study but
he did not say who was smiling. Those in constant touch with Walter
will remember how frequently he does designate the guilty person. The
statement of ownership might be a guess but this would not square
with the accuracy of many earlier tests.
At the seance of June 15, there was an interesting minor error of
identification-interesting, because almost anyone, possessed of his
normal powers of perception, would have made the correct statement.
At this seance, after the identification of the first four items in the
" collection," Walter said: "Here is a metal piece that isn't money.
Aluminum o1· lead. A check; like a coat or baggage check. It is
covered all oyer with words. It is not money; it may take the place
of it." This was especially good as the article was an aluminum token
to be used as payment for a return trip on the 'bus ' line which
issued it. The particularly interesting feature is the failure to dif-
ferentiate between aluminum and lead. On the other hand he gave a
very good description of the token as to form, lettering and approxi-
mate use.
In pursuance of the plan of these tests I present one which pro-
vides further evidence as to the form of the terminal or terminals used
in these cognitions and also gives an indication of the rapidity and
accuracy of his manipulation of these articles. It occurred on June
18th. The basket was in charge of Pierson who put in three wooden
letters which were properly named and thrown out by vValter. He
described the subsequent " collection" as a handkerchief (Mrs. Twacht-
man), "a whole pocket-book," "keys in a leather case" (Russell),
" a bill case " and '' something like a barrette " (a collar clasp).
Apparently the name "barrette " was not known to 'iValter prior to
the sitting of April 24th, for at that time he asked the name of the
" article " which he had described. In about five seconds he added:
"Here is a celluloid box-here is the cover. (Heard to strike
the floor). And here is the rest of it. (Remainder of box goes to
floor.) . There is a piece of chalk in it. I am going to break it in two
pieces. (Two pieces hit the floor and roll about." Dudley, I don't
see where you get all these female appurtenances, anyway!"
To understand the value of this test one must know more of the
WALTER'S COGNITIONS 441
box. It is about o/s inch wide by y2 inch deep and 2% inches long,
with a tightly fitting cover, the edge of which is flush with the bottom
of the box. There are two small, curved finger cut-outs, % inch long by
Ys inch high, in the lower edge of this cover ; the finger and thumb of
one hand must be fitted into these cut-outs before the cover can be
removed with the other lwnd. After trying this t est on several quick-
witted ladies I found that, with eyes closed, they took from 4 to 5 times
as long to open the box as VValter required. I also found that most
women thought that the " chalk" was a lip-stick. Lip-sticks were
not in common use at the time VValter Stinson lived here. As a matter
of fact it was a stick of polishing rouge for the nails. The question
still remains; why should vValter think that chalk was a "female
appurtenance?" If it was more than a casual guess it seems to call
for a causal explanation. In any case the box is so difficult to open
that we are almost forced to conclude that Walter used the equiva-
lent of two hands and that these hands had fingers which were at
least as well developed as some which have been seen over the luminous
plaque and luminous cross-section board.
At the sitting of .Tune 22nd, w·alter identified first, among a number
of articles, " a whole pocket-book which some trusting soul has put in
the basket," and continued: "Let's see what's in it. Shall I tell what
is in it?" The lady who owned it assenting, he said, "There is a tin
box with some flour in it. Someone must be going to do some cooking."
The description was correct. But why flour rather than powder?
At the sitting of November 4th (19·26, as throughout the present
chapter), Walter added an interesting feature by inserting some
unexpected evidence of his own. The " collection " was taken,
and Walter promptly announced a watch which, he said, was put
in by Samuels. (Wrong. It was Thwaites.) H e then said : " It is
a hunting-case watch. Hear the cover? (Sound of cover being
snapped shut several times. ) You ought to have your crystal fixed.
It is broken or something." Thwaites explained that the cover
had been cut out to take the crystal and the inner bezel was empty.
'Valter then identified a locket " a case--a plush case, such as medals
are put in; it's got glass on one side. A daguerreotype?" H e began
by assuming that it belonged to Samuels and no one corrected him
although Samuels did not admit ownership. After he had spoken of
a possible daguerreotype he wanted to know who put it in the basket.
l\·frs. Richardson admitted having done so. If telepathy is to be
442 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
stressed, we must notr that she has been a regular member of the circle
since June, 1923, and yet 'Valter did not "guess" that she had con-
tributed the plush case.
Walter now handed the basket to Thwaites, who removed his watch
and, after putting it to his ear, replaced it in his pocket. The other
artic1es were distributed and the VCO was put into place. After
the floats had been unbalanced Walter said: " Colonel, when you
look at your watch you will find that the hands have been changed.
I changed them from your time to my time, to fourth dimensional time."
Up to this point there was no indication that this was other than
the usual type of Walter cognition t est. This additional information
was announced by W alter, in independent voice and under test con-
ditions. A subsequent inspection by Thwaites and the writer showed
that the watch had been set back 20 minutes. This was almost cer-
tainly a two-handed job.
There are many other instances which demonstr~J,te 'Valter's ability
in this game of cognitions and testify to his quickness, accuracy and
versatility. One more may be mentioned, very briefly. At a sitting
held November 16th, the writer found a peculiarly shaped metal
device on the floor of the ~eance-room and put it in his pocket. Lat.er,
when the collection was being taken, he dropped it in the basket.
After Walter had identified the other articles he said: "Dudley, did you
put in anything? " Dudley: "Yes." A slight delay while a necktie
was be.ing removed by its owner and then 'Valter saidl "Ha! this is
a pip.e cap. It belongs to Prof. Adamson ( ?) who was here last
week " As a matter of fact I did not know what it 1vas and put it
in the basket with the expectation that ' Valter might not be able to
tdl anything about it.
It is important to note that, as a general n1le, articles are placed
in t he " collection basket " without mal<
ing any sound which might
disclose their identity. Also, that those who are familiar with this
work refrain from giving any indication that they have made contri-
butions. The wr iter and many others have been careful to keep these
test articles out of sight and to say nothing about them until Walter
has made the identification. The sole exception to this rule, if it
may be called an exception, occurred in the first portion of the cogni-
tion t ests of April 24, 1926, and in that case no one but Mr. Bird
could have known about the barrette. It is obvious that articles
of personal adornment may not properly be classed as completely
WALTER'S COGNITIONS 443
evidential under a non-telepathic heading; but they have some evidential
value if they are placed in the basket without any accompanying
comment or sound. Such conditions would increase the difficulty of
a nonnal cognition but there have been so many indications that Walter
can, under favorable conditions, perceive the sitters and their clothing,
even in complete darkness, that it seems unwise to assume that he
has no knowledge of the articles so presented.
For a further discussion of the classification of these identification
acts and of their philosophy, the reader is referred to Crandon's
admirable summary, in the A.S.P .R. Journal for June, 1926. This
article should be regarded as an important contribution to the history
of the mediumship, and, like so much of the other literature cited in
the present volume, should be read into this record.
CHAPTER XL
Vagrant Sittings in the Old Cabinet
By the Editor
From the moment when the glass cabinet was first introduced,
it became the very definite custom to use it for at least the opening
part of all seances, with a few well-recognized exceptions. One in-
stance of these is the series 1
of sittings in the old cabinet aimed at
the rehabilitation of the scales; and similar series aimed at other
specific ends for which the immediate control of the moment was not
the immediate issue were also held partly or wholly in the old cabinet.
Likewise, when Crandon and one or two old friends like Adler would
go into seance for conference with Walter, the glass cabinet was
unnecessary and was ignored. :Finally, once in a while, when sitting
just for the sake of sitting and with no definite goal in view, it would
occasionally be the consensus of opinion among those present that
the glass cabinet was too much bother. The present chapter is for
the purpose of completing the record by reading into it the phenomena
of several of these more or less nondescript sittings, in the old cabinet.
On December 22nd, 1925, Walter had an appointment with the
two young men from " Tech., " Conant and Gerke; and he had said
that it was to be an entirely friendly, chatty affair-" a joke night"
was in fact his expression. So the old cabinet was used to save trouble.
'Valter, coming through promptly, said he was alone and his forces
were low. In addition to the presents for the two special invitees,2
which obviously did not in any way t end to relieve the occasion of
the label put on it by Walter himself, there was levitation of doughnut
and coin, under conditions of strict double control.
On January lst, 1926, the record tells us that "Walter was all set
for the glass cabinet, but said he would see what he could do in the old
one." It does not appear at whose motion the change of plan was made.
The action included levitation of megaphone and basket, with touches.
"Practically always, when any phenomena were going on, Weston's
left hand held the Psychic's right and both of Crandon's." The
1 Chapter XXXVI.
2 Page 68.
444
)
I
VAGRANT SITTINGS IN OLD CABINET 445
Psychic went into trance for practically the whole seance; this unac-
customed condition for phenomena in the old cabinet was attributed to
the presence of the several strange sitters.
Februaty 6th saw what appears to have been a sociable evening in
honor of Holmes. The Psychic and Crandon wore luminous controls
on ankles and wrists, and she had a luminous headband. Catamenia
was present, and perhaps afforded the reason for sitting under the
less formal conditions. There were identifications, activation of the
luminous paint, and excellent levitations of doughnuts and megaphone.3
These" were put on the table by Mrs. Baker, who saw that there were
no strings attached to them."
On March 5th, for no reason indicated, the old cabinet was used.
Trance came on almost immediately, being again blamed on the strange
sitter. There was bell-box action,4
after which:
The rest of the sitting consisted in efforts to develop a rod which
could be seen over against the luminous plaque. This was shown
three or four times, b)lt only as a small tip, the Psychic's forces
being apparently low. [ No physiological reason for this is men-
tioned.]
A very successful seance in the old cabinet fell on May 16th. After
the routine display of bell-box and scale described in the chapters de-
voted to these, the record goes on:
A white handkerchief, with luminous paint in spots on it, was
put on the table, and 'Valter proceeded to do some of the best
levitations he has ever shown with it. :Murray held the Psychic's left
hand ; Mrs. Brown held her right hand and Crandon's two hands
throughout. vValter passed the luminous handkerchief down under
the table, and out and up the far side of the table, making a com-
plete circle. This would seem to require two terminals to do it,
or else one terminal must have passed through the substance of
the table. Next a luminous doughnut was put on the table with
the handkerchief, and Walter shortly passed the latter through the
former, and then repeated all the levitations, whirling the mass
completely around Murray's neck, then completely around the
Psychic's head, then up 5lj
2 feet, and then out towards the other
side of the circle 5 feet. An imp with mischief seemed to accelerate
the glowing mass as it shot around with incredible rapidity.
u See pages 434, 392.
• See page 414.
446 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
H e next did some stunts showing the luminous handkerchief and
doughnut to one sitter at a t ime, and then making it wholly in-
visible. It seems likely that he used the megaphone for this pur-
pose, though the technique must have been difficult, and must,
according to our understanding, have required the use of two
terminals. The Psychic was never in trance.
Extremely important observations were made concerning the
voice during this seance. The Psychic, during the sitting, ate three
peppermint lozenges, and as she talked, we could tell that one was
constantly in her mouth. Nevertheless, Walter talked and whistled
with his usual freedom throughout the sitting. At one time, the
P sychic indulged in a long yawn, and in the very middle of it VValter
gave a long whistle. This again proved a complete physiological
independence in w·alter's voice.
The seance of July 15th, as indicated elsewhere, was not held in the
seance room at all, but down stairs, in the room where I ordinarily sleep
while stopping in Lime Street. The action and the collateral state-
ments of the record are of extremely miscellaneous character, and I
dispose of them here for want of a better place to put them. Accord-
ing to the record:
Walter came through almost at once, the voice seeming to be
about a foot above and one foot behind Crandon's head. Previous
to the sitting, the Psychic had gone into the regular seance room
t o get the bell-box, and there she had been faced by a bright white
light, six inches in diameter, so she reported. Walter now said that
this was part of his apparatus. He kept us going for an hour with
merry wit and j est. He rang the bell-box intermittently while the
two strangers each lugged it about the room. He then made a light
about two feet high which wandered all about the circle and made
tangible contact with every sitter. During the most of the
phenomena, double control by personal contact was in effect.
The voice machine was now used and worked perfectly with
double control.
Matienza now reported that 'iValter was pulling at his watch
chain, and shortly after that his watch, chain, and pen-knife on
the other end of it were taken from his waistcoat pocket and put
on the table very gently where all could hear it tick. Next it was
put with similar gentleness on the floor, and Vvalter said he thought
he would not pick it up from the floor because it might slip and
break.
/
1
CHAPTER XLI
Paraffin Gloves under the Co-mediumship of Dr. Hardwicke
By the Editor, and from the Records
Nobody will accuse Dingwall, either on his showing in the Margery
case or as a matter of more general principle, of being a lenient critic.
Surely if he has a fault as a psychical researcher, it is that of giving
undue weight to factors adverse to the medium and too little weight
to those of afavorable trend. Yet I am betraying no confidence when
I say that, in conversation with me, he has agreed that one factor
alone in Margery's history is of such enormous weight, affirmatively,
as to make a definite adverse judgment quite out of the question until
this factor has been completely eliminated. The factor in question,
curiously enough, is not a physical but rather a human one. It may
be briefly set forth, as follows:
Time and time again, some person (ordinarily but not invariably
tt man) of unimpeachable antecedents and conspicuous position and no
prior connection with the mediumship or with the Crandons them-
selves, has been brought into their seance ro01n by some chain of
circumstances; and has immediately become the center of old or new
phenomena in a fashion which can be fitted into the hypothesis of
fraud only by assigning him the perfectly definite role of wilful accom-
plice. This, of course, may happen once, or even twice, and be regarded
with a certain degree of equanimity. Bank cashiers and ministers,
doctors and lawyers, men from all walks of life with previously impec-
cable records, do every once in so often go wrong and commit robbery
or arson or murder under. a ·temptation which happens to steal upon
them from a weak side. By the same token, when hundreds of
respectable citizens are exposed to the works of a female medium who
is alleged to be a trickster and admitted to be too attractive for .her
own best good, it is not at all out of the human average to picture
a certain percentage as affected to the point where they are willing
to participate in fraud. But:
Starting with my own first exposure to the mediumship in late
1923, and running right down to the present date, the Margery
seance room has again and again and again been the scene of some-
447
448 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
thing which the impervious skeptic can only regard as a fresh outbreak
of confederacy from a new and unexpected and eminently respectable
source. It is a colossal problem in psychology to say why exposure
to the wiles of this one woman so universally corrupts the incorruptible.
It is equally a colossal problem to explain just how confederacy has.
been initiated with such an endless series of strangers, with no single
failure to function. Does the lady herself make the advances, or does.
the new sitter who aspires to an active role have to put out the first
feelers himself? How does it happen that no single person/ having
rejected her advances or suffered her rebuff or seen himself supplanted
by a newer and more favored aide, has ever " spilled the beans " to
the extent of telling us what he did and how he did it and how he was
persuaded to do it, or of giving evidence equally damaging in some
slightly different direction? Infatuation for the Psychic is given as
the motive leading all these confederates into the game; how then
does she maintain this elaborate organization free from any disruptive
outbreak of jealousy on the part of any of its members? And above
all, aside from these operating difficulties, we must' deal with the ques-
tion of averages and probabilities.
If one cashier of a given bank defaults, that is accepted as some-
thing that is bound to occur, in the long run. If his successor defaults,
that may be a coincidence. But if over a period of years, incumbent
after incumbent of this position in this bank is prosecuted and con-
victed as a defaulter, we shall look for the explanation somewhere else
than in the law of averages. Is it not possible that there is a default-
ing president who is clever enough to make these others his "goats?,.
I s there not some other explanation that possesses the inherent mathe-
matical probability which we must deny to the one that appears on
the face? And in the same way, is it not evident that there comes a
point in Margery's history when we must stop generalizing about her
charms, stop generalizing about the human weakness that makes it
so easy for her to develop confederacy among her sitters ; and ask
whether the thing has not gone to a point where the more probable
uplanation of this long history of alleged confederacy from respect-
able sources is to be found in some other direction? It passes the
limits of easy belief that so many people of good repute and a fair
degree of fame should, on first exposure to Margery's phenomena,
develop a willingness to aid her and find a means for doing so. Whether
1 I exclude Code's story as patently unworthy of credence.
PARAl' FIN GLOVES UNDER CO-MEDIUMSHIP 449
<1ne choose to look at it from the human side or from the severely
mathematical one dictated by the law of averages, in order to support
the belief that Margery's phenomena are a monumental fake we must
·Credit the incredible about her sitters.
As I have indicated above, my own confederacy would come first
<ln the list historically, and perhaps also first in point of intrinsic
importance. A great deal occurred during the Scientific American
€Xamination of the mediumship which even Houdini could explain
away only on the allegation that I had falsified the record in his absence
and played the part of active accomplice in his presence. The same
charges have to be leveled against Carrington. They have to be
leveled against Richardson. It is not an entirely negligible factor
that they have to be leveled against Crandon; for though he is
the medium's husband, there must exist a very appreciable possi-
bility that he would not thus cooperate in fraud, even with his own
wife. Careful examination of the circumstances under which Messrs.
Goodall, Murray, Litzelmann and De VVyckoff have sat will easily
add them to the list of essential confederates. In the case of De
'iVyckoff, his wife's knowledge and consent would seem necessary; and
the same necessity applies in only less obvious degree to Mrs. Bird-
she will testify that Houdini realized, and was puzzled by, this.
A few other names would have to be added to the list of accomplices
<1f 1923-24-notably those of Messr~. Adler and Cross; but with them
as with Goodall, Murray and Litzelmann, old acquaintance with the
Crandons robs the allegation of some of its inherent unplausibility.
It is, in fact, not until we come into 1925 that we find any con-
spicuous case to add to that of Carrington and myself-any instance
<lf a person of professional standing and general repute, a total
stranger to the Crandons, against whom must be levied the charge that
his appearance in the seance room has initiated an immediate and active
confederacy. The second such instance would involve Hill.1
a The
first such instance, and the one about which this chapter revolves,
deals with a gentleman who is a physician of high standing in
the city of his residence, and who has professional connections out-
side the field of routine practice. 'iVhen this chapter and the fol-
lowing one were first compiled and put into type, he felt that these
connections would be prejudiced if his part in the mediumship became
generally known; so I employed for him the pseudonym "Jones."
1a See open reference No. 28, Vol. 2.
..
450 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
But the unexpectedly long interval which has elapsed between the pre-
liminary stages of compilation of the present volume and the final ones
of publication has modified the situation which previously existed, and
made it now permissible to identify him as Dr. Henry Hardwicke, of
;.;riagara Falls; and to point out that while no further account of his
presence in Lime Street will occur in this volume, he constitutes one
of the focal points of the story which Richardson tells in the A.S.P.R.
JouTnal, starting in May, 1928. In the interests of economy, having
made this explanation and identification, I allow the name to stand as
" Jones " in the text of these two chapters.
He sat for the first time2
on October 16th, 1925, and I have held
out his three sittings at that time for description here in topical
rather than chronological sequence. On the first date the bell-box was
rung and the luminous basket was levitated; and the Richardson voice
machine was used with brilliant effect-all this, despite the fact that
the Psychic was, as Crandon uncryptically puts it in his memo-
randum of the seance, " not feeling well in several respects." On the
following evening, Jones was again present, and again with his wife.
He had never met either of the Crandons prior to these dates. This
seance was carried through, more or less against Crandon's better
judgment and despite the fact that the Psychic's physical condition
was unfavorable to sitting. I quote Crandon's record:
Walter came through with pleasant greeting for everyone, and
ordered the bell-box removed from the table. Shortly after this,
when various members of the circle spoke to Jones, he did not
reply; the Psychic reported that she thought he was unconscious
(he was at her immediate left in the circle) . This was confirmed
then by his falling forward on the table; and there he lay for half
an hour, partly supported by the sitters on each side, and appar-
ently in deep trance. After about twenty minutes, Walter ordered
the light on for two seconds. This was done; and we beheld a
teleplasmic hand and half of a forearm lying on the table in front
of and in contact with the vertex of Jones's head. ';ye were given
no further view of it; but he remained in trance nearly half an
hour longer, and we were told by 'Valter to leave the room imme-
diately at the close of the sitting at 10 :30.
This was the first time that Jones had ever been seized or had
acted as a medium. The production of this hand was amazing
to us all. Every hand in the room was obviously accounted for.
2 In Lime Street; see p. 84 for his first contact with Margery.-J. M. B.
)
PARAFFIN GLOVES UNDER CO-MEDIUMSHIP 451
At the end of the sitting Jones was covered with perspiration and
rather shaken in spirit, and complained of ache in his right ear.
Oral report by Crandon and others of those present adds a little
to this. At one time early in the seance Walter referred to the fact
that "The Kid" was ill and that little or nothing could be expected.
On instructing that the light be turned on, he made it plain that Jones
was the center of visual interest, his words being approximately:
" Turn on the light and look at Jones ; this is going to be good." A
little later he remarked, with a chuckle, that when he couldn't get "it"
(the teleplasm) from one place, he got it from another. All this, with
Jones's trance, is of importance mainly as indicating consciousness by
Walter of Jones part in the proceedings, and absence of any possi-
bility that Jones was an innocent bystander, used as a foil by the
medium without his knowledge. His own t estimony with regard to
the reality of the trance will be inserted at the proper point. For
the present, we have only to give the record for the next night,
October 18th:
Walter came through in about ten minutes and said practically
nothing except " Be quiet, please." Directly after this Jones was
taken again in trance, but seemed, however, not to be so deep as
last night and, from time to time, during a full hour and ten
minutes he would occasionally talk to Dudley or Crandon. Appar-
ently a different voice spoke through him twice, but we could not
identify the communicator. Then ' iValter allowed two seconds of
red light and we all beheld a sheet of perfectly white teleplasm
more or less rectilinear in shape over the skull and face of Jones
as he lay on the table. No other view was given, but after this
Jones began to complain of his right ear as of pain, and told
Crandon that something felt like blood pouring out of it. Then
he said, " He has taken enough teleplasm out of me to make a
horse. It is piling up on the table. Go to it 'iValter, I'm game."
Shortly after this, every sitter first and last was touched in face
or on head with what appeared to be feathers or t ail-like ends
of bits of plush. Hamilton was touched fourteen times, Dr.
Brown six times, Crandon eleven times and the touches went even
to the extreme end of the circle fully six feet from either medium.
The general opinion seemed to be that the thing was a bird-like
materialization. After due time was given, perhaps five minutes,
for this materialization to be reabsorbed, the sitting closed.
452 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Following this seance, Jones was not again present in Lime Street
until April 30th, 1926. In this interval, and right on the heels of the
seances just described, there fell the inception of the glass-cabinet
developments and the course of preliminary experimenting in search
of definitive procedures for sitting with this apparatus. While this
was going on vValter gave no spontaneous display of teleplasm and the
&itters were little interested in that aspect. But on three widely
separated dates there arose good reason for showing the teleplasm to
certain particular sitters : to Walton and the Eddys on December 19th,
] 925; to the Baltimore Commission on January 28th, 1926; and to
Holmes on March 6th. The record for the second of these dates has
been given; 3
those for the two others are here inserted, this being the
place where they are in best continuity with the rest of the story.
Sitting of December 19th, 1925, at 10 Lime Street. Present, to
left: S. Eddy, Walton, G. Eddy, B. Eddy, Crandon. As the
Psychic sat in the cabinet, she threw her head forward in her hands
as though already very sleepy. Her hands were very cold. Trance
came on immediately and Walter made no other sign or sound.
After about nine minutes Walter began talking, greeting everybody
and was in a fairly earnest mood. He asked the sitters if they
understood the ethics of the seance room, especially that no psychic
structure is to be touched without Walter's permission. They
understood and agreed. After three minutes more Walter directed
the red light to be turned on for one second and we beheld a crude
and rudimentary white left hand on the table, connected with the
Psychic's body by a cord. During the two hours that followed
we had about twenty exposures of this structure, which varied in
size, shape and got slightly darker in color as the evening went on.
Just before this structure appeared 'iValton declared himself to be
touched on his right hand. From time to time one sitter was allowed
by Walter to handle the structure and each did, feeling apparently
no bone-like structures in the fingers or in the palm, but as they
reached the wrist they all agreed that it felt as if it contained a
bone-shaped core, highly resilient like the bone of the fetus.
After a period of this examination the bell-box was put on the
table and 'iValter then showed us the visible teleplasmic hand ring-
ing the bell-box the number of times requested as by S. Eddy and
.later by B. Eddy, and later by 'iValton. While this ringing was
going on, at one time S. Eddy and another time '~'alton were
allowed to hold the wrist and we could see that the ringing was
s Page 376.
PARAFFIN GLOVES UNDE R CO-MEDIUMSHIP 453
not done by a pull down in the direction of the cord, but that the
cord or wrist firmly held the hand itself, humped itself and the
fingers rang the box. Then the hand was placed on t he combined
hands of S. E ddy and the P sychic and Walter said " I will now
ring the box in the air with the force from that hand." Thereupon
B. Eddy picked up the bell-box and it began to ring intermittently
and did so continually as he turned 360 degrees and until he put it
down, the phenomena beginning and ending in the same period of
red light. As he turned and t he box came between his eye and
the light, he was able to look under the flap and see that there was
no mechanism.
The next phenomenon used the luminous basket. The hand was
seen holding on the handle. The hand was then seen in the dark to
put the luminous doughnut in the basket. The hand then was seen
in the red light bearing west on the handle and S. E ddy pulled east
on the handle. The pull was estimated at three pounds and was in
a direction at right angles to the P sychic.
Shortly after this S. Eddy got a violent slap in the face. It
sounded like a boxing glove hitting him but he stood it like a good
sport. The hand was seen several times to pick up the doughnut
and crumple it and wave it about.
The P sychic's hands and Crandon's hands were visible, of
course, during the red light periods and well cont rolled during the
clark periods. It was always known where the P sychic's feet were.
The trance was uneasy with groans as if in labor. As the sitting
went on ·w alter got more cheery and t alked and whistled freely.
The luminous plaque was put on t he table and there V\T
alter
deposited the same left hand of which we had seen so much, moved
it to any place that B. E ddy requested, and gave its complete
silhouette on the plaque. F inally towards the end of the sitting it
assumed a rectangular form with buds oi· protuberances seen,
enough like a hand made into a fist . T his was gradually with-
drawn and the sitting closed at 11 P .M. , with no trace of the struc-
ture to be seen.
T hose who felt t he hand declared it to be apparently a left
hand ; that it was cool or even cold, getting colder as t he night went
on, resilient like rubber, having no fingernails but evident grisly
bones. The cord was described as one to one-quarter inches in
diamet er and the end of the hand began as an angular joint . There
was no pulse in the cord, but it felt vibrant as though alive.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street , March 6th, 1926. In t he old cabinet .
P resent, to left: Holmes, :Mrs. Dennett, Dudley, Dennett, Mr s.
454 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Baker, Crandon. Mrs. Stinson was in the background. Trance
came on almost immediately. The P sychic wore five luminous
markers and had been searched by Mrs. Baker before the sitting
and had been conducted by her with hand control into the seance
room. She had on bathrobe, stockings and shoes.
w·alter came through in cheerful mood and greet ed everyone.
He said ther e should really be no sitting tonight because of the
Psychic being tired and there having been a lot of irritating pub-
licity in the newspapers during the week. The Psychic's left leg
went into Holmes' lap shortly and after about fifteen minutes,
filled with story t elling and general conversation, a solid object
was seen to flop on the table, partly obscuring a luminous dough-
nut there. This was shortly shoved across and showed a complete
crude hand over the doughnut; it seemed small because of the
vertical silhouetting. On request this hand was put over on
Holmes' hand and later in the evening it was put on the back of
his head when he laid his face down on the table. When on the back
of his head, Holmes said it was big enough to cover the whole of the
back of his head. In other words, it was much larger than a hand.
He described it as feeling cool and like a fairly solid j elly, not wet,
no odor.
The terminal was now shown in full lying on the luminous
plaque and while there was seen to move as a hand. It repeatedly
struck Holmes' arrri and hand and he was at least four times
allowed to feel of it with his fingers. · Finally red light was allowed
and we saw on the table a thin, crude, five-finger ed right-hand.
From the wrist there was a cord like an umbilical cord, though
flattened, which extended down between the thighs of the Psychic,
both of whose feet were now in Holmes' lap, and thence ext ended
upwards.
Everything that Holmes asked for in the way of control, ex-
hibition of the terminal and action by the t erminal in the way of
telekenesis, was carried out. Among other things Walter showed
us the hand ringing the bell-box, not in red light but with the
mass to be seen over the luminous spot on the bell-box flapper.
Another exhibit was when on request he made the hand completely
eclipse the doughnut which is four inches in diameter. The hand
also went through the form of handshake with one of Holmes'
fingers.
By engagement of several weeks st anding, Jones was to be p resent
from April 30th until May 3d, 1926. By great good fortune there was
nlso present on May 1st, a gentleman who has come to play a part in
PARAFFIN GLOVES UNDER CO-MEDIUMSHIP 455
the Margery case quite as active as Jones's, though of a different sort;
this will be described in Chapter X LIII. For the present, he need
merely be visualized as an observer of more than the average scientific
training and competence, and more than the average of demonstrable
detachment from the Crandons. I refer, of course, to Tillyard.
There had arisen a definite project to try, in Jones' presence, for
par affin gloves. No move in this direction had ever been made in Lime
Street since the more or less abortive sitting of May 17th, 1924.4
\Vhether the return to this theme in Jones' presence was provoked in
the first inst ance by Crandon or by \i\T
alter I cannot say, and I doubt
that Crandon's own memory is clear on the subj ect at this date. But
there had grown up a definite agr eement by \Valter to try the paraffin
again at this time, and more or less of a promise that he would make
good. Of course, both in his and in Crandon's mind, the r enewal of this
experiment was associat ed with the idea that there was present, with
Jones, a t eleplasmic structure that was in some way more responsive
to the paraffin treatment that Margery's own teleplasm. But that the
latter was visualized as playing a by no means negligible part in the
performance will be clear from the fact that \Valter indulged in a
good deal of preliminary warming-up wit h the paraffin bucket, st art-
ing as early as April 20th. On this date, the paraffin was offer ed him
in a metal pail, which pleased him none too well ; in addition, Hie
cameras were not r eady, as they ordinarily are when tcleplasmic pro-
grams of any sort ar e under way. So he side-st epped the paraffin and
gave an ordinary ·t elekinetic show instead. The practice with the
paraffin actually came off a few days later, as the two records which
now ensue will make clear :
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, April 26th, 1926, in the old cabinet.
To left: Richardson, H ill, M rs. Richardson, Crandon, the Psychic.
Conant for photographs, and Mrs. Stinson in the background.
U nder instructions previously given by \Valter, three inches of
melted paraffin was floating on top of seven inches of water, all at
212 degrees at the time it left the stove downstai rs. It was in a
papier mache pail, vValter having forbidden a metal pail. It was
first put on a stool about six inches from the floor in front of the
medium, but was later transferred to the floor under directions.
\i\Talter came through shortly and seemed to be in good form.
\Ve soon heard him dabbling about in the pail, a nd then he called
for a pail of cold wate r to be put alongside of it.
4 M. liL, Chapter XLI.
456 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The medium was searched by Mrs. Richardson before the seance
and was clad in kimono and stockings only. W alter said this was
still an experimental meeting, and later said that he doubted if
the pictures would be first-class. F rom time to tim e each sitter was
touched apparently with a sheU of hard paraffin, Richardson and
Crandon being particularly favored. The victrola acted badly and
Crandon had frequently to leave the circle to wind it. At such
times the Psychic was entirely under control of Dr. and M rs.
Richardson.
Two photographs were taken at the moment W alter directed,
one of them after a very brief flash of red light. At this flash we
saw something crudely like a hand hanging in the pail on the edge
nearest the Psychic. After each flash the P sychic's whole kimono
and the white stret cher in the pail r emained luminous for a half
minute or more.
The victrolla finally gave out altogether, and at about 10 :30
W alter insisted that this same group gather t omorrow night to
continue the experiment .
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, April 27th, 1926, in the o~d cabinet.
P resent to left : Richardson, Hill, Mrs. Richardson, Crandon, and
the P sychic. Conant and Mrs. Stinson in the background. The
Psychic was clad as usual, having been examined by Mrs. Richard-
son before the sitting. She was also examined after the sitting
with negative results.
' iValter came through shortly and commented on the new elec-
tric victrola, saying that we should not be too sure that our
troubles wit h it, caused by him, were over. In front of the Psychic
was u pail full of water and paraffin and beside that a pail of cold
wat er. From time to time we could hear the t erminal fl opping
about in the paraffin. After a while there were frequent touches of
Richardson's hand and of Crandon's head by Walter's t erminal
covered ''vith paraffin. After a while we were allowed to see, ap-
parently floating on the paraffin , a long yellowish hook-shaped
body. L at er ' iValter's terminal, covered with paraffin in the form
of a hand was seen in red light resting first in the hand of Richard-
son, and later in that of Mrs. Richardson. It was also deposited
in the dark in Hill's hand. It was either a solid cast of a hand,
or it was a paraffin glove still containing W alter's t erminal. It
seemed to gain in weight each successive touch that it touched
Richardson, which makes him think that the shell was thickened
by ,a new dip again and again. There wer e two periods of red
light in which we were allowed to see the hand lying in that of
Richardson and Mrs. Richardson. P araffin was dropped and
PLA'l'g :'l4. PLAS'l'ER CAS'l', S'l'RI PP.IW FREE OP PARA~'PIN, IDEN'L'II"mD BY DR. CRANDON
AS 'l'HE PIRS'l' SHELL l\IADE ON APRIL 30, 1926 (SEE P . 457 ) . TIIE RECORD WAS
WRONG i '!'HERE WERE AC'l'UALJJY 'l.'WO RIGH'l'S, APPAREN'l' !JY IDEN'l'ICAL, CI,ASPED
SO LIGHTLY 'l'HA'l.' 'l'HEY PELL APAR'l' IN HANDLING i 'l'JIIS IS '!'liE BET'l'ER OP 'l'HEM.
OBSERVE ITS A.NA'l'OMICAL IMPER~'EC'l'IONS, WHICH ARE R I~GARDED AS SUPPOJl'l'ING
ITS SUPERNORMALI'l'Y OP OIUGIN.
PARAFFIN GLOVES UNDER CO-MEDIUMSHIP 457
smeared all over the edge of the pail nearest the Psychic, but there
was none on the floor and none was found on her hands or person,
or that of Crandon. Finally 'i\T
alter seemed to feel that the glove
was done, and then to his great distress it slipped from his grasp
and fell into the pail. He said it was easier to do each successive
time and that before long we would have the largest and best
collection in the world.
Jones arrived as per schedule, and there is nothing that need be
said in the way of introduction to the record of his first sitting:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, April 30th, 1926, 9 P.M., in the old
cabinet.
Present to left: Jones, Richardson, Hill, Brewer, Eddy,
Mrs. Richardson, Crandon, Psychic. In the background were
Conant, Miss Lord and Mrs. Stinson. There were three cameras
set up.
There was no sign of Walter until about five minutes, when it
was apparent that Jones was in trance. Margery did not go in
trance for about forty minutes, but from that time on both were in
trance. Walter spoke shoi"tly, and was full of energy and kept us
convulsed with laughter throughout the evening. The pail, with
melted paraffin floating on boiling water, was in front of Margery,
and on the edge of it was built a shelf of black cloth and wire on
which paraffin structures might be laid after making. A pail of
·cold water was alongside. Much agitation of the paraffin was
heard, sounding· like a big fish in a pail, and Walter kept us in
constant fear that he would lose what he was making. He said
that he was using teleplasm from Jones, and at certain apparently
critical periods he begged us all to chant: " Jones, sit still." This
we did for minute after minute. At another time he said that the
two mediums were fastened neck to neck [teleplastically, of course,]
while he used them. Again he said: " Oh, for a male medium
always! " ~Talter's voice constantly broke into a partial bass
tone. After a while there was a big plunge in the water pail, and
we could hear gurgles of air apparently coming out of some hole as
1t filled with water. Again the same thing was apparently lifted
·out of the water, and a pint of water, more or less, could be heaTd
running out of the hollow structure. At three different intervals
l1e allowed .us to see on the pail shelf-the veranda, as he called it-
the paraffin structure. The first was, apparently, as he had prom-
ised, a right and left hand clasping each other and of different sizes. ·
This was crude, as 'Valter said it would be because it was a first
458 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
attempt. The second structure was a wonderfully perfect right
hand, both palm and back being well made. It was short and fat.
W alter advised against pouring plaster into it because he said in
this instance the outside was better than the inside. The third
structure involved apparently an effort to make two hands again.
In the first and third, on looking into the small hole out of which
W alter must have dematerialized, it was obvious that there were
good finger s in the mass.
The conditions were so strict that photographs were t aken to
show how the structures were delivered. The sitting closed at
10:15 P .M.
Before going on with the second of these sittings, of May 1st, I may
conveniently cover a few details which are not made clear in the record,
quoting for this purpose from Crandon's letter to me dated May 12th :
The P sychic was searched before and after each sitting. The
cold water pail was searched before the sitting. The t emperature
of the paraffin was 212° Fahrenheit when it left the kitchen, and
170° at the end of the sitting. \iValter would not work in the
galvanized pail, so the boiling paraffin and water were poured into
a papier ma che pail [each night, after being brought upst airs in
the galvanized pail in which they had been heat ed]. The heat took
the varnish off the inside of this papier mache p ail so that the
paraffin had an individual pink color. All the hands were large
and masculine. They r esembled in no way the hand of either
medium, and they were certainly not feminine. Holmes (on
May 1st] was told to pull the glove out of the cold water pail, and
did so. The mold was found to have the fingers hyper-extended,
and the thumb was especially broad. The hand was a fair image
of that of Holmes. \iValter j oked at him, and accused him of
making the hand, and asked him how he liked being called an accom-
plice. The one made that night we filled with plaster of P aris and
presented it to Tillyard, to show Sir Oliver [Lodge] and others,
and t o take home with him. There were imperfections in all the
molds, but each one showed that the dematerialization took place
through an orifice not over an inch in diameter. They all were
different in actual measurement and in proportions from the one·
made in your [i.e., Bird's] presence two years ago.5
It seemed
as if for all this work Walter used Jones, who ·was in trance
throughout while Margery was in t rance only part of the time.
s May 17th, 1924; M. M ., Chapter XLI, as cited ahove.
J>LA'l'E 35. BACK AND FRONT VIEWS OF A PARAFFIN GLOVE, IDEN'l'lFIED BY DR. CRANDON AS 'I.'HE SECOND ONE FROhl THE SEANCE OF'
APRIL 30, 1926 (SEE PAGE 458, EX'l'REME 'l'OP). ASIDE FROM THIS AND 'l'HE SHELLS OF PLA'l'ES 34 AND 3·6, O'l'HER SHELLS
I:NlliCATED BY THE RECORDS AS HAVING BEEN DELIVERED ARE AVAILABLE FOR EXAMINA'l'ION A'l' 10 LIME STREE'l' BUT CANNO'l' BE
IDEN'l'IFIED BY DA'l'E AND SO ARE NOT HERE ILLUSTRATED.
)
PARAFFIN GLOVES UNDER CO-MEDIUMSHIP 459
The remarks of the above letter will make more intelligible the
record, prepared by Crandon as usual, which I next present:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, May 1st, 1926; in the old cabinet.
Present, to left: Jones, Tillyard, Dudley, Laura Crandon,
Holmes, Mrs. Till yard, Crandon, Psychic. Mrs. Stinson was
in the background. She is ' Valter's [and :
Margery's] mother, 78
years old, and nearly unable to move on account of general
arthritis.
In front of the Psychic was a papier mache pail filled with
boiling water on top of which was floating four inches of melted
paraffin. This burned off the varnish of the pail, and thus the
fluid was tinted pink, which served to identify it. Beside this pail
was a galvanized pail full of cold water.
Walter came through promptly and within five minutes ,Jones
was in trance. Five minutes later Margery went into trance.
Shortly after this Walter said, " This is too good ; I'll have to
show it to you. Turn on the light." This was done, and we
beheld the two psychics, side by side, both unconscious and snoring
deeply. About t en minutes later we were allowed to turn on the
red light again, and we saw all over the left side of Jones's head a
hanging mass of t eleplasm. Tillyard was allowed to feel this with
the back of his hand, and reported that it was warm and soft, more
or less like wax. VVe now heard sounds as t hough a fish were flop-
ping about in the paraffin pail, mixed with an occasional plunge in
the cold water pail. Just preceding this the surface of the paraffin
glowed occasionally with a psychic light, and similar glowing areas
could be seen near Margery's head and over her chest. Other lights
were shown over the pail, as though they came from a flat sm·face.
They were visible to some of the circle and not to others, and then
the first group might not see it while the second did.5
a After about
forty-five minutes of great agitation in the pail, Walter told us
that the hand he was making was done, that he thought we prob-
ably could not make a cast of it because parts of it had collapsed,
and that he felt his technique would improve with practice. Before
the sitting Dr. Holmes had explored the galvanized pail full of
water to see that it contained nothing else. Now he was told by
VValter to fish in the pail. H e did so, and pulled out what we were
later allowed to see was a good glove of a right hand. The thumb
was excellently well made, the fingers were more or less fused
and somewhat collapsed. Later plaster of Paris was poured into
~a See M. M., pp. 199- 201.
460 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
it as far as p ossible to give it permanency, and then the whole was
present ed to Tillyard by Margery, that he might t ake it with him
as a souvemr.
Examination of the hands of everybody in the room before they
left t he circle failed t o reveal any sign of paraffin on them. The
glove which had been made was obviously masculine, and the thumb
bore a striking resemblance to that of Holmes. It was pink,
exactly mat ching the color of the paraffin in the bucket, st ained
as this was by the coloring matter from the papier mache.
On July 6th, 1926, Tillyard, stopping in England on his way
home, lectured before the [British] National L aboratory of Psychical
R esearch on his experiences with Margery. The lecture was published
in full in the B1·itish Joum al of Psychical R esect1·ch for Sept.-Oct.,
1926; and reprinted in the J ou.1·nal of the A .S.P.R . for D ecember of
the same year. It seems desirable, in view of the extreme importance
of Tillyard's position as an absolutely det ached corroborator, to
d.epart here from the convention of covering existing literature by cita-
tion only, and to quote in full such of his remarks. as have to do with
the sitting of May 1st. It will be appreciat ed that the reporting of
his lecture in the third person is a canon of British journalism:
Dr. Jones was present at the second seance which the lecturer
attended, and, as far as he could see, most of the t eleplasm used in
forming the psychic hand or glove obtained that evening was
formed in this manner from this strong physical medium, who went
into t rance alongside Margery herself. It took about thirty min-
utes to produce a large mass of t eleplasm and to pile it up on
Jones's head. The lecturer asked for leave to examine it and
hand k~ it in red light, and this was granted by \iValter. Just as he
was st epping forward to examine it, he heard Dr. Crandon say t o
Mrs. Tillyard that the medium would groan when the teleplasm was
touched ; and, sure enough, as soon as he touched it, Jones emitted
a deep groan, though he was sound asleep. It seemed at the time
that it was the suggestion made by Dr. Crandon which react ed on
the subconscious mind of the medium and made him groan, but the
lecturer learnt afterwards by inquiry that the medium always
groans when the subst ance is handled, although he is certainly not
conscious of any pain. The lecturer carefully examined the mass
of t cleplasm and st ated that it was white and somewhat shiny,
rather like the white part of a large cauliflower cooked and ser ved
with white sauce, or perhaps a better simile would be that it was
PLA'l'E 36. 'l'HIS GLOVE IS TDEN'l'IFIED BY D R. CRANDON AS THE ONE MADE ON :MAY 1,
1926, I N 'l'HE PRESENCE OF DRS. TILLYARD AND HOLMES. T HE PARAFFIN, AN
ElGH'l'Il·INCH TIIICK, WAS NO'l' MELTED OFF BEFORE 11' WAS GI VEN '1'0 DR. TILLYA RD
AND 'I'AKEN AWAY BY HIM (SEE PAGE 462, BO'l''l'O ~f ) . l'l' I S A ~fA SCULINe 11IGHT
HAND AND HAS FEATURES SUGGES'riNG 'I'HE HANDS OJ<' AT LEAST 'I'WO OF THE SITTERS.
PARAFFIN GLOVES UNDER CO-MEDIUMSHIP 461
like a plate of cooked sheep's brains. As for what it felt like, it
was most difficult to describe this; he could not think of any living
tissue which gave him either the appearance or feeling of it exactly.
One got a very strong impression of great turgidity and firmness,
something like that of a well blown-up pneumatic tire, but there
was also a suggestion of a living response to pressure, like recipro-
cation from a friendly hand-pressure.
In the formation of the psychic hand, it was, as had been already
stated, Dr. Jones who provided most of the teleplasm, though
''T
alter said that he got most of the " power" from Margery. In
this experiment, two bucket s were provided, one containing almost
boiling water on which was floating about four inches of hot melted
paraffin wax, while the other contained cold water. The lecturer
had control of these two buckets and sat with his face almost over
them so that he could see and hear everything that went on in them.
The hot bucket was made of papier mache stained red, and this
caused the wax in it to become pink by the end of the experiment;
the teleplasm itself, on the other hand, was shining ·white, and, if
any paraffin molds had been secretly introduced from outside fraud-
ulently, they also would have been white ; the psychic mold finally
produced was exactly the same pink tinge as the wax in the bucket
and had clearly been extracted from it. [This of course is not
necessarily demonstrative; one might visualize the usc of the pink
bucket with the soluble coloring matter as a deliberate dodge by
a very clever fraudulent operator, who would then have to be
thought of as having carefully experimented to determine the pre-
cise shade which the paraffin would absorb from this dye, so that
a previously prepared glove might be given this shacle.- J. M. B.]
When "T
alter said he was ready to begin, he asked the lecturer
what part of his [Walter's] anatomy he [Tillyarcl] would like to
have dipped into the pail for the psychic mold. The reply given
at first was that he would like to see a thumb-nail carefully modeled.
This, said W alter with a chuckle, would be very easy, and soon
afterwards one heard a gentle dip of something into the pail. The
lecturer then changed his mind and asked for a mold of the whole
thumb, which W alter at once agreed to do. This operation took
five or ten minutes, and involved a number of clip pings and trans-
ferences to the cold water and back. Then the lecturer deliber-
ately changed his mind again and said that he would like a whole
hand with wrist complet e. "T
alter demurred somewhat at this,
pointing out that he had practically completed molding his thumb
a nd that the hand would be uneven; however, when pressed, he said
T HE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
he would do his best, and for about fifteen or twenty minutes the
clippings into each pail alternately proceeded. Suddenly there was
a big splash in the hot bucket and an object was heard to fall right
into it; immediat ely Walter's voice was heard swearing roundly
and calling on Mark [Richardson] , his assistant, to come quickly
and help him as he had badly damaged the mold."b After a lot of
splashing and some more clippings into t he cold pail, \iValter an-
nounced that his job was finished but that it would be found to be
somewhat imperfect around the lower or wrist end; he then
instructed one of the sitters, Dr. H olmes, to come forward and feel
in the cold buc1<et and lift up whatever he might find carefully on
to a leather cushion placed ncar by for its reception. This was
done, and red light was t urned on gradually while the mediums
came out of trance. D r. Jones came round more slowly than
Margery, and when he was examined it was seen that his left ear
was considerably inflamed around the place where the t eleplasmic
cord had been seen emerging.
The psychic mold was allowed t o cool and was then carefully
examined by all present. It was not closely like the hand of any
person in the room, but showed consider able resemblance to that
of the lecturer in having the knuckles strongly double-jointed and
in being rather short and broad. The thumb had a less broad nail
than the lecturer's and was much smaller than Jones's, though
ot herwise not dissimilar. T he whole hand was quite unlike's Mar-
gery's, and all agreed that it was a male hand but much too small
to be Jones's, quite apart from many obvious differences in shape.
·w alter claims that it is a model of his own hand ; what the lecturer
could be certain of was that it was not a model of the hand of
anybody present at that seance in the flesh.
The lecturer then exhibited the psychic mold to the audience,
pointing out that it had been fill ed with plaster of P aris to preserve
it, but t hat owing to partial collapse of the fingers, which had less
wax around them than the more carefully molded thumb, the wax6
had not filled the finger cavities completely, and therefore it would
be useless to melt the wax away to get a plaster mold, as the finger
p ortions would be misshapen.
5bA hostile c1
·itic on reading this, wnnts to know " What did he do to h elp ~ "
I reply with the utmost candor that I haven't the least idea. I presume this
response strikes the critic who asks the question as highly ineffective; while in view
of the fact that the spirit hypothesis is not being urged upon aJJY reader of this
volume, his original query strikes me as a ridiculously over-str ained attempt to pick
flaws.-J . M. B.
a Sic: of course l1e means plaster.-.J. M. B.
PARAFFIN GLOVES UNDER CO-MEDIUMSHIP 463
Jones was to remain in Boston for two more days; Tillyard
had to go on after the evening of May 1st. Two more seances were
held, directed at the formation of paraffin molds through Jones's
mediumship ;· and for these I am forced again to rely entirely upon
Crandons' records :
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, May 2nd, 1926, 9 P .M . ; in the old
cabinet.
The pail of paraffin was prepared as usual with the pail of cold
water alongside it. The Psychic was searched and her single gar-
ment examined by Mrs. Brown before and after the sitting, with
negative results.
Walter came through promptly and talked us all into good
humor. Jones entered trance shortly, and Margery followed him.
There came a faint luminosity over the paraffin pail. Very soon
.after this a flopping sound could be heard first in one pail and then
in the other. This went on more or less for 45 minutes. Then
\Valter said: "Well, I've done something. The way to deliver
these things is in a pail of cold water; they'll collapse otherwise."
w·hen the light was turned on we found on the piazza of the pail
two molds. One was of a fat masculine right hand, the fingers
partly flexed. The other was a mold of two masculine hands, both
rights, palm to palm, and bowe<;l from finger tips to wrists in such
.a manner that no hand could normally get out of them.
Walter said good-night at 10:10 P .M .
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, May 3rd, 1926; 9:15 P.M., in the
<>ld cabinet.
Walter came through shortly and ordered the t able to be put
in the circle over the pail of hot paraffin and the pail of ice water.
[A paragraph dealing with identification of playing cards in the
·early part of the seance is omitted here, being given elsewhere.]
The table was now removed, the water pail having been explored
by Dennett and found to contain only water and ice. Much agita-
tion of the two pails was heard for the next half-hour. In the
meantime 'Valter entertained us with t alking, serious and light.
H e said: " I'm not using the Kid tonight, I'm using only teleplasm
from Jones. The Kid is only an accessory to the crime.'' As he
1vent on plunging from one pail to the other he composed some
newspaper headlines, thus:
Margery Gives Ghosts Cool Reception at Lime Street.
Entertains Ghosts in Pail.
Refi-eshments : P araffin (H) and Ice V\T
ater.
464 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
In a more serious mood he called new attention to the fact that
"this is only kindergarten, except in its implications." He told
Jones early in the sitting to sit regularly Saturday evenings in
a home circle and try to develop, and that he [Walter] would try
to get to him. Shortly after this he said : " This paraffin stays
too hot, I guess I'll cool it." Whereupon with the greatest celerity
the galvanized water pail was picked up and a quart or more of
water poured into the hot paraffin. A moment later he did the
same thing again. During this time Richards-on had possession
of both Jones's hands and Margery's left; while Mrs. Richardson
had both Crandon's, and Margery's right. The ice had been thrown
out of the p ail earlier, and in the pouring act no water was spilled.
At the end of the sitting a good right-hand mold, masculine,
was found on the pail shelf, and a hand with forefinger extended
like an index. All the other fingers and the thumb of this hand
were found floating, separately, in the cold-water pail. The index
finger, attached to the main portion of the hand, was bent somewhat
towards the stump of the middle finger.
Sitting closed at 10 :30 P .M. No paraffin found on any hands.
Hardwicke as we shall immediately see enjoyed further contact
with the Lime Street sittings ; but when he came again, while the
phenomena were of a wholly teleplasmic nature they did not take the
direction of a successful paraffin-shell production. This department
of the mediumship is of course to be recognized as a direct forerunner
of the thumbprints to which so much time was given in 1927, and to
which we shall come in due course ;7
but so far as the shells themselves
are concerned, we come at this point to the end of the story. It is
quite characteristic for Walter to drop a given category of phenomena
thus abruptly; sometimes after having got it to a logical climax and
sometimes without having successfully done so. Proponents of the
mediumship regard this versatility as a strong point and its attackers
insist that it is a fatal weakness.8
In any event, it is distinctly a Wal-
ter habit; though of late, he has also apparently developed the ability
to go back and repeat a phenomenon out of the past which he has
shelved.9
1 See open reference No. 29, Vol. 2.
s.See McDougall's remarks about the red hening; J ou1·nal, A.S.P.R., June, 1925,
pages 302-3'.
o See open reference No. 34, Vol. 2.
CHAPTER XLII
Further Teleplasmic Phenomena with the Aid of Dr. Hardwicke
From the Seance Records, with comment by the Editor
The extremely successful experiments of Chapter XLI in medium-
istic collaboration led to a very definite project to have Jones come
to Lime Street at more or less stated intervals. Only one of these
visits materialized, but it was of extreme interest. Another natural
consequence of the seances of April 30th-May 3rd was a sharp revival
of interest, alike on the part of Walter and on that of the sitters, in
the teleplasmic side of the mediumship. Pending Jones's next presence,
f.everal evenings were given over to this.
On May 6th the Psychic was "tired from the materializations of
the recent sittings, and Walter said the force '"as low, but he had
isolated and saved up some force left over from Jones, for future use.
Though the molten paraffin was present, he declined to use it." Instead
he reverted to the almost abandoned theme of playing-card identifica-
tions, and then "went on to produce some faint but distinct and beauti-
ful psychic lights." On the 11th, there was anothei· incident which
I think Walter would have us regard as part of this sequence. The
record reads :
The sitting was scheduled for Eddy and his group, but since all
could not come it was postponed. Margery, however, felt a strong
urge to sit, which was almost irresistible.1
Walter came through
at once, and said: " It was lucky you sat tonight. I was holding
on by my teeth. Everything would have been lost if you had not
sat." He worked on the luminous basket and handkerchief for
about an hour, talking all the while, and saying that he was attend-
ing strictly to his important business; but he gave no details.
On May 15th, there was something more concrete, m a sitting
held wholly in the old cabinet:
This was supposed to be a developmental seance only, and so
it proved to be. Walter came through promptly and for some
minutes whistled a beautiful improvisation to the "Prisoners'
1 And which was also quite unusual.-J. M. B.
465
466 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Song " on the victrola. The paraffin had been brought in boiling,
with the idea that it might be used. The Psychic went into trance
promptly, and a lot of flopping about was heard in the paraffin
and in the water pail. Several times he told us to listen, and we
could hear as much as a pint of water being poured out of some-
thing into the water pail. Richardson was touched several times,
with what was apparently a paraffin mold, on the back of his hand.
After about forty minutes of this, Walter suddenly said, " Now
I'll show you something, turn on the light." We beheld the face of
the Psychic quite covered with this thick white teleplasm, with a
long hook-like projection from the region of the nose, looking like
a caricature of a nose, perhaps eight inches long. Crandon, on the
side, could see it move. With the next exposure, some two minutes
later, this proboscis-like process was twelve to fourteen inches lon~,
and as we watched it, the exposure to light apparently caused it to
wilt downwards. Walter said that ·he was molding some teleplasm
to the face of the Psychic, with the idea of making a cast of the
mold in paraffin. He said also, that that rod we saw in the region
of the nose was one of the rods with which he did much of his
levitation; that it was the kind of rod described by Crawford; that
the Psychic was covered with such projections all over, like warts
on a cucumber; that he could make anyone of them grow out to
do whatever job was at hand.
On our saying we would sit for progress again a week from
tonight, he said, "Oh, not so long, we must go on now that I have
steam up."
There exists a supplementary memorandum by Hill, revolving
mainly about certain subjective factors of the above seance, but includ-
ing also the following:
Mention ought to be made of the lateral motion of the proboscis,
seen by myself and, I am sure, by Dudley. This introduces a
feature other than a mere sagging under the disintegrating power
of the light.
On the 20th and 25th (May), there were additional sessions with
paraffin and teleplasm. The two records may be subjoined, with no
further comment.
Sitting of May 20, 1926, in the old cabinet. Walter came
through promptly, the melted paraffin being in the cabinet.
As the running chatter of comment and wit went on, we heard
occasional flopping in the hot paraffin, the Psychic being in deep
trance. VValter said that he was working on three things industri-
F URTHER TELEPLASMIC PHENOME NA 467
ously, and that we had t o sit to help him get on with them. H e
said that Jones had left enough stuff behind him to make a mascu-
line hand from ; that W alter is working on the phantom ;1
and
he is seeking to make a rod of sufficiently density to withst and the
light, in order that shortly we may photograph the t able in levita-
tion showing the rod which lifts it. As an earnest of this promise,
vValter gave us three views of a fourteen to eighteen inch hooked
rod protruding from the region of the P sychic's nose. The last
three inches of it moved lat erally, like a eat 's tail. The hole was
about one inch in diamet er, and its base seemed nearly to cover the
P sychic's face. It was pinkish in color, and evidently moving. It
was the longest rod we have seen.
The sitting closed at 11 :30 P. M ., and it was interesting to
observe that downst airs, later, the P sychic complained that the
bridge of her nose was soTe. Towards the end of the sitting tlic
P sychic's mouth could be heard working, and vValter said, " Y ou
can hear her swallowing the ectoplasm."
Sitting of May 25, 1926, in the old cabinet .
T rance came on in less than two minutes. The pails of hot
paraffin and cold water setting in a new box for the purpose were
in front of the Psychic, and from time to time we heard dipping
in each pail. Most of the time when the dipping was heard there
was control of the P sychic's two hands, each by two persons, and
of Crandon also. At the end of the sitting a poorly formed right-
hand paraffin glove was found on the shelf of the pail. Just before
this, W alter exclaimed in despair because he dropped it apparently
as he was getting out of it, and it fell into the paraffin pail. We
are inclined experimentally from this, to have more paraffin in t he
pail hereafter so the dip can be deeper.
Besides a lot of interesting and valuable talk there was one
new and very striking feature to the sitting. The talk included a
st atement by Dr. E ddy that he felt that individual survival had
been in no way proved by us, that t here was no satisfactory evidence
that Walter is what he pretends to be. On this Walter commented,
" I can proved myself to be what I am in as many ways as you
can prove your identity." Someone asked 'iValter how far away
he was when he left us, and to this he replied, "A long dist ance,
but perhaps only really an inch."
W e were allowed two red-light views of a proboscis process
1 Referring to a project often discu ssed bet ween ·w alter and the frequent sitters,
which as yet has led to 110thing. It seems unnecessary to part icul arize ·about it
h€re.-J. M. B.
468 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP·
growing from the region of the nose. One was about fourteen inches
long and the last five inches of it bent downwards as we watched it.
The second view showed a process one inch in diameter in the form
of a spiral or corkscrew, the base diameter of the curve of it was
about four inches. All sitters saw it and Walter ventured. no ex-
planation except that it was preparatory to the structure which
we would lat er see holding up the table.
Regarding the next appearance of Jones in Lime Street there was
uncertainty and misunderstanding; so that he arrived unexpectedly on
May 28th. On the evening of that date, a sitting was held, with Jones
present and in intermittent trance. The phenomena were entirely tele-
kinetic; and though Walter st ated that he had got a great deal of
force or material out of Jones, the seance action was in no visible
respect different from Margery's telekinetic routine.
It had been agreed between Crandon and myself that I should
attend when Jones was again present; and following his unexpected
arrival, Crandon got in touch with me by long-distance telephone on
the evening of the 28th. I had planned a motor trip in another direc-
tion over the Memorial Day week-end; it was a simple matter to change
my itinerary and go to Boston instead. I arrived in good time for the
seance of the 29th, which by prearrangement with Walter was given
over entirely to an effort to get further paraffin gloves. Inasmuch as
there would therefore be nothing in the way of seance action to record,
· I decided to forego any attempt to use the dictaphone and to give
my entire attention to matters of control and of observation. My
seance record, drawn up the following morning, st arts with· a brief
memorandum of Jones's connection with the mediumship, which I have
here covered and so may suppress. Taking it up at the point where
it fii:st deals with new matter, I give it complete from that point:
There had been considerable experimenting by the sitters in the
effort to determine the best sort of paraffin for seance use, and the
};Jest way to handle -it. Problems had arisen in connection with the
temperature and the depth of paraffin in the bucket which sug-
gested the trial of a hot bucket containing paraffin only, without
any water; in conjunction with the usual cold bucket containing
water alone. At the same time an effort was being made to find a
more suitable paraffin; and for the present evening that in use was
the sort employed in the preparation of microscopic specimens.
This is of course a very superior product, in its way; whether its
FURTHER TELEPLASMIC PHENOMENA 469
p articular properties would render it more, or less, suitable for the
technique of psychic molds was not known, and no attempt was
made to determine this in advance. An experiment was thus trans-
ferred into the seance-room which could perfectly well have peen
made and which should have been made outside the seance.
Crandon attended to the melting of the paraffin, and when it was
brought upstairs it was so hot that the start of the seance had to
be postponed until the bucket had cooled somewhat. Relieved of
the limiting factor introduced by the presence of water with its
fixed boiling point, the contents of the bucket kept getting hotter
and hotter the longer it remained on the stove ; and when we
attempted to sit, the t emperature was somewhere in the neighbor-
hood of 300° F ahrenheit. ·when we finally brought the bucket
into the seance room and started the sitting, it was still so hot that
it smoked and gave off a very noticeable odor as of scorched wax.
The glass cabinet4
was used, and the two mediums were placed
in it face to face. ·Marger y was at the back, Jones at the front
with his back to the door. Between them, a foot or so from the
floor, was a wooden shelf-like structure with holes large enough to
receive the bucket s and permit these t o enter to about one-third
their height.5
This was necessary to avoid danger of spilling.
The quarters were extremely crowded, and the sharp edges of the
shelf were in constant violent contact with the shins of one or the
other medium. Jones's chair was ultimately pushed by its entranced
occupant part way out of the cabinet.
The whole program revolving about t he paraffin, we did not
bother to lash t he feet of the mediums. The only foot control
attempted lay in my verification of the fact that , without a free
hand to aid t he process, neither of them could shed a shoe; plus
the total absence of any paraffin on their stockings at the end of the
seance. Hand control was by the cust omary wire lashings ; Mar-
ger y's hands being lashed at the rear ports of the cabinet , which
I had never before seen in use, and Jones's at the forward ones. I
put the wires around all four wrist s myself, and likewise attended
myself to the lashing of all four to the eye-bolts in the outer walls
of the cabinet. At the end of the seance I found that my knots
had not been disturbed. Over and above the obvious fact that the
lashings were too tight t o permit escape, the deep marks left by
the lashings upon the mediums' wrists offered a guarantee of the
continuity of hand control.
<~- Contrary to previous practice in sitting for paraffin shells.-J. M. B.
& See page 467. A photograph of this box will appear in Vol. 2.
470 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Margery's trance was approximately as usual, although cer-
tainly not so restless as ordinarily. Jones's was an extremely rest-
less trance, with constant violent struggling against the lashings
to a point where the cabinet creaked and shook severely. From
time to time there was partial emergence accompanied by vioknt
p rofanity about the " damned wires."
' iVe sat for something like half an hour before the paraffin was
introduced into the cabinet. During this interval there was a lot
of conversation from W alter, and considerable whistling. The lat-
ter was of dual character ; in addition to W alter's accustomed
performance there were feeble imitations st at ed to ·be by John.
The two whistles came simultaneously and at various moments ;
once there was a sustained duet accompaniment to the phonograph
for ten or fifteen seconds; but for the most part the overlap
between the two whistles was not so sust ained as this, although
d early present from time t o time.
The luminous megaphone, basket , and doughnut were placed on
the stand in the cabinet by me. Walter request ed that I do this
without touching J ones, but I found Jones's knees wherever I
explored. 'iVhen I so stated, Walter said it was.all right, it didn't
matter if I did touch him. T his might be interpreted as accommo-
dation to the existing circumstances ; or it might be fitted into
the ideas as to W alter's hypnotic background advanced by Till-
yard in his letter to Crandon.6
There was sust ained brilliant levitation of these three objects.
The doughnut was levitated first alone and then placed in the
bottom of the basket for further levitation. The megaphone and
basket then went into levitation simultaneously, and for some
minutes they moved freely about in the cabinet. Their paths were
quite independent both in locus and in velocity ; there could be no
question at all but that they were held by independent t erminals.
They were carried to a height permitting their bumping against
the roof of the cabinet, and in general they seemed to range through
the entire free space within the cabinet.
At one point d uring this stage of the sitting we were given
red light to look at the mediums, and we found a teleplasmic pro-
tuberance of some sort on Margery's face. I likened it to a horn,
and somebody else to a butterfly wing. It was not ver y large,
and it was in no degree luminous in the dark. I think it probable
that the chief reason why we got no repetition of this was the
6 These ideas m·e sufficiently clefmecl by this reference ancl no quotation from the
letter seems necessary.-J . M. B.
FURTHER TELEPLASMIC PHENOMENA 471
extreme disarrangement of Margery's robe. 'iValter remarked
about this a little lat er, and warned us not to turn on lights at
the end of the seance until it had been fixed.
illtimately vValter called for the paraffin, and with considerable
difficulty, in all the red light which the arrangements of the room
permit, Crandon, having poured the paraffin out of the galvanized
bucket in which it had till now remained and into the papier
mache one, was able to lift this very clumsy and dangerous burden
over Jones's head and deposit it in its seat between the p sychics.
[My original record here described the bucket and the arrange-
ments for its use; this has been covered and may be omitted.]
Those present included Dudley, Crandon, the two Richardsons,
and myself. I was seated directly in the door of the cabinet in
such a way that invasion would have been out of the question-and
of course this waives entirely the point that. Jones is an enormous
man (230 pounds) over whom nobody could possibly climb in the
dark without a fearful racket. All emphasis should be placed
upon the control conditions in connection with the fact that for
a long time after the paraffin and water bucket s were put in place
there was continual noise of working in these two bucket s. The
noises were not such as could be produced by kicking the buckets.
They were very emphatically as of dipping, first into the one
bucket, and then into the other, and ultimately on several occasions
they were as of the dropping of a fairly crisp finished product
upon the shelf.
Walter expressed on several occasions much difficulty with the
paraffin, and finally he stated that he was not at all pleased with
his product and that he was going to destroy it. This remark
was followed by a noise as of dropping something into one of the
buckets. After the seance two observations were made, checking
up the good faith of all this.
The paraffin was altogether unmanageable, either because of
its inherent characteristics, or because of the extreme heat to
which it had been subj ected. It was altogether too granular to
permit adequate molding. I took a small piece of it, and rolled it
into a ball between thumb and finger. After a very little of this
treatment, it became the consist ency of overdone fudge and fell
apart in much the same way that this material does. It would
have been quite out of the question to make a decent mold with it.
The paraffin bucket at the end of the seance was at a more or
less critical t emperature, the bulk of its contents being still liquid,
but the parts in contact with the sides of the pail having begun
to crystallize against the pail. In the bottom there was a large
472 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
mass whose solidity was barely such that we were able to detach
and recover it. It was obviously a fragment of a hand mold,
showing patticularly the hollow character at what we took to be
the ball of the thumb.
The outcome of this seance, therefore, was profoundly unsatis-
factory. To be sure, strong and persistent action of some sort was
obtained in the pails, for which no adequate explanation appears to
be available. But that is not so much to the point, as is the fact
that a definite result in the way of a finished mold was to have b.een
produced, and failed to occur. Entirely because of the use of the
seance-room as the theater for an experiment by the sitters, which
should have been conducted elsewhere and at another time, conditions
were set up which, on the assumption of genuineness, would have
prevented V\Talter from producing the scheduled phenomenon, at this
time when a positive result was so greatly desired. As a consequence,
there was brought about a parallelism with the course of events which
would be expected from a fraudulent case---failui·e of the phenomena
to occur under a critical and competent observation and control.
Moreover, if one insists upon the unsuitability of the paraffin as the
primary physical cause of this failure, what is one to say to the
critic who accepts this plea, but lays the whole thing up against an
extremely clever premeditation by Crandon and the Psychic? Aside
from insisting that I am not the only critical and competent outside
observer, and that the phenomena do not have to occur under my eye
in order to be valid, there is little enough that one can say.
If, however, the paraffin-mold aspect of Jones's co-mediumship
scored a fiasco in my presence, the purely teleplasmic aspect achieved,
on the following evening, the most brilliant verification imaginable.
This was (approximately, not exactly) the third anniversary of the
mediu~nship, and the idea was to have the old original circle (minus
Cross 7
of course), plus the two mediums. In addition, Jones, Jr.,
was to be present. Despite his father's completely non-psychic history
up to the time of coming in contact with Margery, this young man of
eighteen years has a most decided history of random and undirected
mediumship. As early as his third or fourth year, disturbances in
his room would be of such force as to waken the entire family. He
had been in Boston on the 29th, but not at the seance. On the 30th
7 See M. M., page }5.
I
FURTHER TELEPLASMIC PHENOMENA 473
he was to be present, in order to add every possible favorable factor
to the psychic environment.
As another reproduction of the past atmosphere, I was to occupy
my traditional position of 1924, outside the circle in the space between
Crandon and Margery, controlling the junction between their hands
and controlling their feet intermittently. r_rhis made it again neces-
sary to give up any notion of using the dictaphone. My record is
based upon rough memoranda made after the seance, and amplified
and brought into finished form the following evening in a New York
hotel:
Seance of May 30th, 1926: . 10 Lime Street. S.itting held
entirely in the old cabinet. Circle, clockwise: Margery (in the
cabinet, as usual), ,Jones (at the end of the table, outside the
cabinet), Dr. Brown, Adler, Mrs. Brown, Jones, Jr., Crandon, Bird
(not an integral part of the circle, but in position of control out-
side [as indicated aboveJ), Margery again. Outside the circle,
in the northerly half of the room: J. H. Brown, Dudley, Murray,
Mrs. Murray, Newman Gray, and an acquaintance of Jones from
his home city.
Margery was not in trance at any time during this seance, and
accordingly had her first noteworthy experience in first-hand obser-
vation of teleplasm. Jones, Sr., was in trance throughout. In this
connection it may be stated that he falls into trance with great
ease and promptness ; on the 29th he was off long before Margery.
On the present occasion he slumped forward on to the table almost
with the extinction of the light. His trance was restless and talka-
tive; but not so much so as the night before, and without the
intervals of semi-waking. ,Jones, Jr., was in light trance from
time to time.
A collection of luminous articles was available behind the
corner of the cabinet, but was not called for. The entire pro-
ceedings revolved about the production, apparently from Jones's
ear, of what constituted by far the largest mass of teleplasm yet
seen in Lime Street.
The intended character of this manifestation was not at all
obvious in its beginnings. ·Witli Jones entranced, head on table,
we all saw what we took to be a psychic light of the 1923-24
model. It was perhaps the size of a lemon, of approximately ellip-
tical outline, and rather more clean-cut edges than would be neces-
sarily implied by the reference to psychic lights of a prior period.
Part of the time it was stationary on the table, and part of the
474 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
time in considerable motion. There seemed absolutely no reason
to connect it organically with Jones, and I am sure no sitter had
so connected it in his mind. After this· light had been present for
some moments it began to increase in size. Presently it was appar-
ently oblong, perhaps six inches long and two to three inches
across. It stood up vertically and in this posit ion bobbed verti-
cally up and down through a range of perhaps a half foot.
Presently it dawned upon the sitters that the thing was growing.
I think this constitutes an adequate description of this stage of
the proceedings. The thing continued to grow longitudinally,
but little, if at all, in the lateral sense; and it continued to move
vertically and now, to some degree, in other directions. At all
stages, here and later, the edges were decidedly clean cut, as
though we were dealing with a definite object rather than an
indefinite luminous area. The direction of growth which I have
described above continued until we had a luminous object appar-
ently fastened or held to the top of the cabinet and extending to
the table. It stood, or lay, in a slight arc, and retained its essen-
tially long and narrow outline.
It was not until after it had reached the stage just described
that organic connection with Jones began to be evident. Some sitter
presently exclaimed that the lower end was draped over Jones's
head on the table, and it became very soon evident that this was
the case. This lower end began to develop to a large degree until
the bottom part of the luminous matter had taken on a large·
bulbous outline which seemed to correspond very closely to the
general size and shape of Jones's head.
Dr. Browri, immediately adjacent to Jones's head on the table,
verified the general impression that his head was quite wholly
draped in luminous matter.
The next stage was one of the most striking things I have
seen in this seance room. Assuming the organic connection with
Jones to have been by a cord to the ear or nose, this cord was
either dark or so overlain by the general mass as not to be notice-
able. The effect which now began is best described in terms of
the following simile. Imagine the long, narrow, luminous zone to
be a snake with its tail coiled or otherwise fastened to the top of
the cabinet and its large flat head overlying Jones's. Imagine the
body of this creature as being rapidly turned upward in an arc
concave upward, and the head as being raised from its contact
with Jones at the end of this arc. Imagine each of these arcuate
movements as being followed by a stretching process, and picture
the stretching as across the table in the direction of Jones, Jr.
·/
, .
F URTHER TELE PLASMIC PHENOMENA 475
Imagine each of these stret chings as accompanied by a pronounced
growth of the forward end, or head. .
This occurred anywhere from t en to twenty times and was
accompanied by a phenomenon visible for the most part only to
Crandon and to myself. That is, we saw plainly silhouetted
against the luminous mass on our side a dark obj ect which we
took to be W alter's t eleplastic t erminal. The obvious inference
was that the t eleplasmic mass was not alive in its own right, as its
behavior might suggest ; but that it was inert and being manipu-
lat ed by this dark t erminal. V\Talter, on interrogation, said that
this was correct. H e said that this t erminal was developed from
Margery, as always, and that this represented her sole contribution
to the action of the seance. For the most part the silhouette was
not seen in any critical position. That is to say, we might see
the rod portion of the t erminal silhouetted against the center of
the luminous mass, and nothing more. But on various occasions
we saw also the single or double finger-like process at the end of
the t erminal.
The prima facie reason for the behavior of the luminous mass
which I have just described was to draw power from Jones, Jr.
H e was in trance, more or less collapsed on Crandon's right
shoulder. For quite a time each forward surge of the luminous
mass culminated in actual contact with his head or face ; and each
contact of such sort was accompanied by a rather sepulchral groan
from Jones, Jr. After this had gone on for quite a time, it very
definitely stopped, and Jones, Jr., was suddenly and unexpectedly
found to be out of trance.
The luminous mass continued to be _present for anywhere from
fifteen to thirty minutes after this t apping of Jones, Jr., had
ceased. Motion and change of shape continued, but not on a very
liberal or very interesting scale. One extraordinarily interesting
incident occurred, however. V\Te were given a very brief interval
of red light to look at it, Crandon being inst ructed to turn light
on and immediat ely off. We saw the whole mass draped from the
top of the cabinet and hanging in a long, sweeping cm ve to Jones's
face and head, which was largely covered. A simile mggest ed by
several sitters was that of t oo-granular paraffin or of a taff~, pull.
After the red light went out again we noticed a c on~:lerable
·increase in the luminosity of the mass. The effect was just as
had been observed earlier in t he year when Marger y's own white
lace-like t eleplasm had shown a heavy luminosity following its
exposure t o flashlight. Thinking in t erms of the most obvious
expression along convent ional lines, Crandon and one or two of
476 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the other sitters consulted as to the ultra-violet content of the
red light. They agreed that this was slight.
Measurements taken after the seance showed that the tele-
plasmic mass, at its maximum, was somewhere between 60 and 80
inches long. This measurement was made from the top of the
cabinet to a point on the table which all sitters agreed had been
reached by the mass. No such marker existed for the width or
thickness, and the best evidence here would seem to come from the
moment of red light visibility. At this moment I took the mass
to be somewhere in the neighborhood of six to eight inches wide
and perhaps an inch or two thick at its thickest point. The process
of disintegration was more or less parallel to that of production.
The mass retained its connection with Jones's head and was
detached from the cabinet, but it did not collapse, so one may
infer it was held from above by a teleplastic terminal. Its lower
end remained fixed in position al}d size, while it shrank from above.
Presently it attained an approximately vertical position and
straight-line outline, standing up from the medium's head to a
height of perhaps a foot. Only then did shrinking begin at the
lower extremity. Presently we had what to all appearances was
a simple and isolated psychic light of a long, narrow shape. This
bobbed up and down, and each excursion seemed to be accompanied
by a diminution in size. At the end there were three very notice-
able discontinuous drops in size, luminosity, and clearness of out
line (all three simultaneously). After the second of these drops,
what was left seemed to lie on the table, in a position where Jones's
head hid it from most of the sitters. After the third drop it was
all gone; and with considerable promptness Jones was out of trance
and Walter was gone.
This sitting was featured also by the dual whistle described
for the 29th. Nothing need be added to what was there said,
except perhaps that Crandon credited John with an improvement
in technique. .
After the luminous mass had been detached, and while it was
still rather extensive, it hung in the air in two limbs, and Walter's
voice was heard, apparently issuing from the point of juncture.
Practically all sitters were agreed in placing the voice in the
region of the upper part of the teleplasmic mass.
Whenever I wished to do so I .was permitted to verify the
integrity of the hand-hold between Margery and Crandon. Brown
likewise was in a position to make the analogous observation
between Margery and Jones, since Margery's arm was carried out
onto the table by Jones's in order that his head might rest on their
FURTHER TELEPLASMIC PHENOMENA 477
two ar.ms rather than on the table. This put their handclasp on
the table immediately in front of Brown, and made it simple for
him to verify its integrity without dropping Jones's left hand. At
various critical points of the seance he and I simultaneously checked
up the condition at these two points of control.
Jones came out of his trance in a st ate of mind which he aptly
describes as "fighting mad" with 'iValter. H e st ates that this is
quite usual; that at the moment of emergence he always feels this
violent grievance, which usually takes the form of mild threats (and
profanity) as to what he would do to Walter if he could get his hands
on him. It ought to be specified that with complete return to nor-
mality this passes off entirely ; that Jones is thoroughly interested
and altogether willing to be subj ected to W alter's control. His own
observations of his symptoms after trance and during moments of
semi-emergence are interesting and should be of value. He writes me:
To obtain an account of the sensations experienced when going
into and coming out of trance, one would be forced to transcribe
them at once ; for each trance is different in some respect s from .
the others. When depending upon one's general memory, all these ·
experiences run together, and might be described with great lack
of accuracy. However, in the main, the following may be t aken
as a most gener al t ype of the experience :
The first sensation seems to be that of a det achment from the
rest of the group, a loss of interest in what is going on about me.
This is accompanied by extreme lassitude and heaviness, lasting for
various periods. The next feeling is one of motion forward and
back, at first gradual as though the body were swaying and the
chair stationar y, then with increased rapidity until the chair and
the room are included in the motion. Then everything falls into
space and keeps on falling. There seems to be no stop that I am
conscious of. A buzzing sound now begins to make an, impression
upon my mind; I realize that the motion is now from side to side
and diminishing apparently in the same ratio in which it increased.
Then words and touches from the g roup begin to register; but even
after consciousness has fully returned, the side-to-side motion con-
tinues, but working toward the center of the body and toward a
gradual consequent fading out.
There is absolutely no sense of time lapse. Going in and com-
ing out are one motion, instantaneous, in the face of the fact that
the other sitters t ell me an hour has elapsed. Nevertheless I always
have a very strong feeling of being familiar with a11 the d·::tails of
478 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the seance as these are talked over afterwards, as though I had
been there. Yet if any such description is left unfinished, I cannot
carry it on.
Again, there is a feeling of having met someone, or talked out
a very delightful conversation, of which one is unable to recall a
word, while still retaining a distinct impression of its joy and
beauty. This is a most baffling feeling.
Jones of course is an M.D., yet it is natural enough that in many
of the highly technical aspects of neurology and psychiatry he is little
better informed than any intelligent layman. The present chapter
has been read in proof by Dr. Hyslop, who is a practicing neurologist;
and he has supplied the following comment :
The description of the mental state succeedin'g trance is interest-
ing in that it presents features which one sees commonly in certain
types of epileptiform attacks. Certain writers have drawn atten-
tion to the occurrence of somewhat similar phenomena in various
types of lesions of the temporosphenoidal lobe. The impression of
the patient that he has experienced something familiar, yet which
cannot be definitely recalled partly because the impression seems
to be fleeting, is known as the deja vu phenomenon.
The t emporosphenoidal cortex is phylogenetically very old. Its
correlation both with taste and smell, which are primitive forms of
sensation, and with rather peculiar states of consciousness, have
been occasion for speculation.
I am unaware of any data giving information as to what may
go on in the brains of mediums as an accompaniment of trance. In
a series of three sittings with Mrs. Piper a few years ago I made
the following observations: -
As trance approached breathing became slow and deep, the ]eft
pupil contracted, mild cyanosis occurred and Jacksonian twitching
appeared in the fingers of the right hand. These phenomena
reached their maximum intensity as Mrs. Piper entered the trance.
Once trance was established, respiration became less labored and
the cyanosis disappeared. vVhen coming out of the trance the
finger twitching re-appeared, and both pupils at first were quite
small. This series of events occurred each time I saw Mrs. Piper.
These phenomena point toward some physiological alteration in
the left cerebral hemisphere of Mrs. P iper, and warrant the con-
jecture that her trance is associat ed with t emporary physiological
changes.
CHAPTER XLIII
A Distinguished Sitter from Abroad
Compiled by the Editor, from the Seance Records and Other Sources
The existence, in Boston and Cambridge, of an active group of anti-
Margery propagandists has been hinted at in previous chapters, as well
as in material previously published elsewhere. The terms in which this
propaganda is conducted need not be exposed in detail or subjected to
a detailed refutation; for such details are of no large bearing upon
the scientific questions which the mediumship puts at stake. The valid-
ity of the phenomena is properly to be adjudged on physical grounds
alone; and no matter what may be done by the irreconcilables in prose-
cution of the thesis that nothing good can issue from Lime Street, no
valid scientific end can be served by taking any part in these personal-
ities. A decent regard for the historical verities, however, makes it
necessary to show that much of the contemporary objection to Mar-
gery's validity does consist in organized propaganda, mainly from a
single source and a tainted source.1
To such degree as may be neces-
sary to show this we must be permitted latitude to diverge from strictly
scientific consideration of the strictly scientific aspects of the case.
With regard to the existence of the adverse propaganda there is a
certain question of fact at issue. General inquiry directed at persons
of responsibility in the department of psychology at Harvard or in
the Boston S.P.R. always elicits the reply that these persons have
circulated no reports adverse to the morality, etc., of the medium or
· her husband or her sitters; that they have engaged in no adverse propa-
ganda, 'etc., etc. One of them, addressing Margery in person, had the
teremity to state, above his signature, that he had never spoken ill of
her. Prince has seized every opportunity to deny that the Boston
S.P.R. has any official position adverse to Margery or indeed that it
is sufficiently interested in the case to be the haven for adverse propa-
ganda; and if we interpret this statement in the strictest sense as
denying merely the occurrence of a personal equation from an imper-
sonal organization, it is of course quite true. In the face of all this,
1 See page 14, and open reference No. 35, Vol. 2.
479
480 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
it becomes highly pertinent to introduce four eminent and disinterested
witnesses.
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, past President of the (British) S.P.R. and a
psychical researcher of experienve and distinction unsurpassed by any
living person, was present at the Philosophical Congress held in Cam-
bridge in the early summer of 1926. Naturally he saw much of the
anti-Margery personnel, from McDougall down. ~Triting in The
Nineteenth Century,2
he tells us that he was exposed to anti-Margery
propaganda which impressed him as irrelevant and inexplicable. His
precise words are:
The hypothesis of fraud is in this case seriously embarrassed
to suggest a motive for the action of the Crandons. The alleged
motives that were whispe1·ed into one's ears at Boston last summer
by the active anti-Margery party, though often libellous, all seemed
psychologically improbable and insufficient.
The italics are mine; I employ them to stress the fact that this very
eminent authority testifies to the reality of the propaganda and the
irresponsible fashion in which it has been prosecuted.
Further testimony comes from a source not less well known to
psychical science-Mr. F . Bligh Bond, whose study of automatic writ-
ings has had the highly pragmatic results which he emphasizes in the
Clark University Symposium.3
Mr. Bond has had no opportunity to
testify in print; but in a private communication to me he says:
On my arrival in Boston in December, 1926, I was received with
cordial welcome by many persons of good standing among whom
I soon became aware of the existence of a strong anti-Crandon
propaganda. To my surprise this did not center on the question
of the reality or otherwise of Margery's phenomena; though their
genuineness was usually denied I was not asked to subscribe to this
opinion. But I was impressed on all sides by arguments, of a per-
sonal nature principally directed against Dr. Crandon, who was
assailed in his moral and professional reputation alike. There were
vague reflections upon the honor of his household. I was told in
so many words that, if I cultivated the society of the Crandons or
in any way allied myself with their cause, I should forfeit my social
standing in the city and lose any influence which I might enjoy:
The· stories told me were specific, and took every conceivable and
2 July, 1927; Vol. CII, No. 605, p. 58.
a The Case FoT and Agatinst Psychical ReseaTch; Clad{ lJniversity, 1926,
A DISTINGUISHED SITTER FROM ABROAD 481
inconceivable form; some being fantastic to a degree and others
mutually contradictory. In no case was any definite authority
given; but it was speedily apparent to me that I was expected to
receive these stories without question as to their authenticity.
Bond's testimony added to Schiller's would make it appear that
any stranger coming to Boston with credentials putting him more or
less in the confidence of the McDougall-Prince-Worcester faction ought
to expect an exposure to this sort of thing. That such is in fact the
case would further appear from conversation which I have had with
Miss May Walker, the peripatetic unofficial representative of B.ritish
psychical research, and from letters written by her to Bond and to
the Crandons which I have seen. Miss Walker, as we shall see later,4
had two sittings during 1926 in which the conditions did not impress
her as adequate for the exclusion of fraud. Combining her observa-
tions to this effect with what she had been told by the Boston antis,
she concluded that the mediumship was a monumental imposture. She
called upon me at my office in late 192() or early 1927, and in a long
interview tried to make me realize the gravity of my own position-!
was responsible, more than any other person, for whatever of credit
the case enjoyed; and where would I and my Society be when the
bubble burst? But in June, 1927, Miss Walker had further seances
in which every question left open by her previous experience was com-
pletely disposed of, and in which she saw an abundance of phenomena
which she could not possibly regard as other than genuine.4
While
she was under the impression that the case was bad, she had written
to her many European friends telling them this and retailing a con-
siderable portion of the libelous anti-Margery gossip 'vhich she had
picked up. In ·her oral expressions of regret for this to me and in
her written expressions of regret to the Crandons and to Bond, she is
highly explicit as to the existence and the unpublishable details of the
anti-Margery slanders.
Finally we have the case of another gentleman who came a long way
to attend the Philosophical Congress in Cambridge-Dr. R. J. Tillyard,
F.R.S., of the Cawthron Institute, Nelson, New Zealand. Tillyard
is an entomologist, in public or semi-public service, and I am told that
his reputation in his field is world-wide. He has been sent, by his gov-
el:nment, on an almost world-wide mission in search of pa·rasites which
" 15~::~:: lll\l::n Tef erence No. 30, Vol. 2.
482 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
might be imported to New Zealand to prey on insect and other pests
now rife there. He brought with him to Boston an interest in psychical
research which was made the keener by virtue of the fact that he had
never seen any of the phenomena; he brought also advice from Sir
Oliver Lodge to the effect that there were two things in America which
he must not miss: Niagara, and Margery. His connection with the
Philosophical Congress brought it about that he met McDougall as
inevitably he did the Crandons. At this point, it becomes in order to
let him tell his own story ;5
it is of course British reporting custom that
throws it into the third person:
At that time the lecturer did not even know "Margery's" real
name until he looked it up in the Scientific American, and even then
he did not know her address, so he wrote to her, "Mrs. Crandon,
Boston." The letter found its billet, and a kind reply reached
him from Dr. Crandon, telling him to let him know when he was
in Boston and to come and have dinner with him, after which a
sitting would be arranged. Owing to a motor accident he was three
days late in getting to Boston, and instead of a week, as he had
hoped, he could spend only three and one-half days there. One of
the evenings was booked .for a dinner which the biologists were
giving him, and the other evenings, namely April 29th and May
lst, he spent with the Crandons. It was one of the most extraor-
dinary experiences he had ever had in his life. He did not know
whether those present realized the stir Margery had caused in that
quaint old city of Boston, the center of American intellect and
culture. It was strange to find the intellectual University of Har-
vard in the throes of a mental, if not a moral, revolution because
of one woman. He could only refer to it in the way in which it had
reacted on him.
The hospitality of Boston was very marked. He was the guest
of professors who showed him every kindness; in fact, there was
nothing too troublesome for them to undertake on his behalf. One
of them had a car and offered to run him around wherever he
wished. But when he mentioned 10 Lime Street, they begged him
not to go to that place. One professor of Harvard told him it was
a thoroughly bad place, that his hono1· would be stained forever
if he went, that no decent man or woman should set foot inside that
door, and they even insinuated that Margery was a descendant of
5 Lecture delivered, July 6, 1926, before the National Laboratory of Psychical
Research, London; published in the British J O'i.Wnal of Psychial ReseMch, Sept.;
Oct., 1926, and in the .Toumal of the .A.S.P.R., Dee., 1926.
A DISTINGUISHED SITTER FROM ABROAD 483
MaTy Magdalene.G They did their best to stop him going, but
when he asked them if they had ever been they said they would not
think of going, that the woman was a vampire, and so on, and that
he would be thoroughly compromised if he went. He told them,
however, that they could not "put that over" a New Zealander,
and he decided that he would go; so one of them finally consented
to drive him there.
He decided to see Professor McDougall before he went, and
with him he had three hours' conversation; in other words, the Pro-
fessor talked to him for three hours, partly on his own theories of
psychology and partly on the wickedness of the Crandons. The
lecturer said to him, " If this is so, will you put me up to a few
tips?" whereupon McDougall said that he thought Crandon em-
ployed a magnet in the scales experiment, and he gave him a little
child's magnet 7
to take with him to test this effect; he also gave him
several other "tips." He listened to all that McDougall had to
say, and agreed with him that possibly the whole thing was a gigan-
tic conjuring trick, though McDougall, in answer to his direct
challenge, could not bring any definite evidence of fraud against
Margery. All he could say was that she was far too clever to allow
fraud to be evident, but he did not believe that she did the things
in question except by fraud. That was the attitude of these men
throughout, and on going later through the various departments
of Harvard he could see that that University was thoroughly ma-
terialistic. It was the most materialistic university he had ever
come across. They had no time whatever for anything that contra-
vened the tenets of materialism. They held that if a thing was not
provable on a materialistic hypothesis it must be a fraud.
Tillyard, as he tells us _above, sat on April 29th and May 1st,
1926. His record for the second of these dates, originally published
in the British .Journal of Psychical Research,8
we have had in full in
Chapter XLI, and we have seen that it fully verifies the occur-
rence and the reality of the phenomena. His record for the 29th was
similarly published in Eng-land; and simihi.rly, in order to have at least
one detailed account of every vital seance in the present volume, we
depart from our usual procedure with previously published material
and give it here too :
G My italics.-J.M.B.
1 Which Tillyard used to test the Lime Street scales, with negative result.-J.M.B.
s I, 5; Jan.-Feb., 1927; pp. 150ff.
484 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
FmsT SEANCE, THURSDAY, APRIL 29TH, 1926.- In this record
M stands for the medium, Margery (Mrs. Crandon), C for Dr.
Crandon, R for R. J. Tillyard, P for Mrs. Tillyard, D for Mr.
Dudley, Mr. L and Mrs. L for Mr. and Mrs. Litzelmann respec-
tively.
At 6 :30 P.M., R and P dined with Dr., Mrs. and Miss Laura
Crandon, Mrs. Stinson (Margery's aged and infirm mother) and a
young Mr. Gray. The latter said good-bye and left after dinner.
The rest of us adjourned upstairs to the book-room on second
floor, and were joined between 8 and 9 P.M. by Mr. Dudley and Mr.
and Mrs. Litzelmann.
At 9 P.M. the whole party moved up to the seance room on the
fourth floor. P took M into the bedroom opposite and examined her
and her clothing thoroughly. M wore only a wrapper, which she
took off and allowed P to examine inside and out, and thin stock-
ings and shoes, the latter tied on with bows of ribbon which could
not be tied and untied by the feet alone; M took her shoes off and
showed them toP, who also examined M naked except for her stock-
ings. P was satisfied that there was nothing concealed either about
her or her clothing.
P returned with M, not leaving her side until she was completely
tied up in the cabinet. The latter was a well-constructed one with
plate glass sides, back and door. Strong brass eyelet s were let
into the floor, sides and back, and bolted on the other side of the
wood. By means of stout picture-wire made of a number of strands,
R then bound M's hands and feet tightly into position, the hands
being placed first through small slits in the sides and tied outside.
To ease the pressure, the wires were passed first through ordinary
rubber tubing just long enough to encircle wrists and ankles; each
limb was fixed as tightly as possible and could not be withdrawn,
and each was tied strongly with five or six knots, so that it re-
quired a pair of very strong scissors to cut the medium free aft er
the seance. M's neck was also fixed by R, into a position drawn
well back by means of a leather strap, so that M had barely enough
movement to lean her head sideways to right or left. P examined
R's knots and passed them after pulling two tighter; she also ex-
amined M's wrists and ankles for double-jointedness to see if she
could in any way slip through the loops, but found this quite im-
possible. The neck collar was padlocked into position by R, who
pocketed the key.
The circle was formed as follows, naming from left to right of
the medium: R close up to l\1 and in control of her left hand by
holding when considered necessary; Mr s. L; C; P; Mr. D next
A DISTINGUISHED SITTER FROM ABROAD 485
<>pen door of cabinet on right. Mr. L sat just outside the circle
between D and P. P kept her foot on D's all the time. Old Mrs.
Stinson sat apart through (1) and (2) only, well outside circle
to left.
Before beginning, all the apparatus was examined carefully.
The Victrola (g ramophone), rheostat and red light were in the
positions mentioned in published works of these seances. The
.cabinet, however, was a newer one, and was placed about middle of
that side of the room opposite the red light and Victrola, the
medium facing the door, which was a strongly-made new one with
a lock not penetrating through to the outside, so that it could only
be opened or shut from within.
Inside the cabinet on right side was fixed a maximum and mini-
mum thermometer, which c set, before the seance, by means of a
small magnet; the temperature was read as 72° F ahr. and was
found to have risen only slightly after the seance.
At the st art, the Victrola was turned on to play softly a new
negro melody record by Judge Hill; by means of an electric
aevice, the needle switches back to the beginning when the record
is done, so that the music is kept up all the time.
Lights out. M in trance, verified by red light at intervals.
Almost at once ""\Valter's " voice ('V) came through as a hoarse
whisper, " H ello, hello," with occasional whistles, and soon began
to talk freely and wittily, mostly from rather high up inside cabinet
to right. W referred to R as the " insect man " and "bugologist."
H e whistled part of the tune in time with the Victrola.
1 . L ette1'S and Baslcet E ,r:peTiment.
A flower basket with a high wicker handle was used, having
three bars of luminous paint on handle and dabs on the sides.
Outside cabinet behind R 's chair was placed a large box containing
some fifty or more letters and figures carved in wood, 3 or 4 inches
1ong. ln the dark, R was told first to pick out as many of these
a s he cared to, without feeling them enough to recognise (this
to rule out telepathy) and to drop them into the flower basket ;
this he then placed in front of the medium on a cross-board fitted
into the open front of the cabinet . ' Valter said he would name
them as desired. R then asked him to pick out one and name i.t.
""\i\T rocked the basket t o and fro gently, whistling to himself all the
time; finally the basket tipped over towards the medium and W P
could hear one of the wooden numbers being fumbled with and
extracted. ' V then said "Here is one of them; it's a K. I will
throw it a t the lady." H e at once threw one block so that it
486 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
hit P's feet in the dark. P felt for it, picked it up in the dark,
felt it all over and announced that it was a K all right.
W then took out a second block and said it was an 8. This
was thrown as before to P, who picked it up in the dark and
verified that it was an 8. The third block was announced by
Walter to be an E and was thrown as before, P verifying it as
correct.
When the K was thrown and verified, C said toP in explanation,
" Now you see, Mrs. Tillyard, there are three points about that K,"
whereupon W broke in with a chuckle, " No, there aren't; there
are fouT points about a K, ha ha ! "
For the remaining two blocks, R asked that they be det ermined
and thrown out together. W said they were a 4 and a Y and then
threw them out together, but they did not fall as far out· of the ·
cabinet as the single ones. P felt for and picked up both and
verified that W was correct.
W then said that the " bugologist and the lady " might put
into the basket any objects they liked and he would t ell them what
they were. R took out of his pocket a pair of curved entomological
forceps in a small green baize cloth holder , and placed it in the
basket . P took off a heavy silver and amethyst brooch. W
first extracted the forceps and stated that they were " a sort
of tweezers," and threw them out on the floor. R then asked
whether there was anything else t o not e about them, and VV at
once said "Yes, they are covered with cloth." H e then tossed
P's article out saying that it was a large brooch.
When R remarked t o vV that he used a considerable amount of
force in throwing the articles out, he r eplied, " Yes, force, not
oatmeal," causing a good deal of laughter.
2. L evitation of Basket and L u,?ninous Doughn~tt.
For this experiment the same luminous basket was used, and,
in addition, the " luminous doughnut," which was simply a large
ring of thick paper cut out into the form of a doughnut, 4 inches
in diameter, and covered all over with luminous paint.
First of all, the basket alone was used. R placed it on the
shelf in front of cabinet. W rocked the basket about, singing
gently to it " Hush a bye, baby " and also whistled very sweetly
and clearly. H e then turned the basket on its side with handle
towards M and dragged it across shelf. Finally he lifted it off the
shelf and it float ed and waved about high up in the cabinet, twisting,
turning and gyrating in all directions. After a while it was
r eturned to shelf and light was called for.
A DISTINGUI SHED SITTER FROM ABROAD 487
In red light, R was handed the doughnut and told to put it in
the basket and place both on the floor. With lights out, W
then rocked and pulled basket and doughnut towards medium,
making a great to-do and freely swearing at the mix-up he was
getting into owing to the number of wires and other things in
the way. "\iV finally got the doughnut out of the basket and it
rose into the air and float ed about right up at the top of the
cabinet . W then said he would put the doughnut outside, and,
after again freely cursing the wires in his way, he succeeded in
doing this, the doughnut passing through the small wri~t-hole at
the right side of the cabinet; the doughnut then float ed in a circle
in the air outside the cabinet and fell on the floor outside.8
a
After lights were on, P picked up the doughnut and tried
to pass it through this wrist-hole ; she found that it was too large
to go through as it was wider than the aperture, but she succeeded
in pushing it through by folding it up first.
3. Independent Voice T est.
For this exper-
iment, Dr. Mark Richardson's new apparatus was
used. This consists of two parts :-
(1) A mouth-piece made of glass with three holes in it all
leading to a single outlet ; it is so shaped that, when placed in
the mouth, one hole can be covered by the upper lip, one by the
lower, and a third, on an inwardly proj ecting part , by the tongue.·
(2) A large U-tube partly filled with water and provided in
each arm with a cork float about 11
/2 inches long marked with
luminous paint. The bore of the U-tube is such that an open
end could not be stopped up by M's thumb, though a large
male thumb might do jt. One limb is open, the other is connected
by a long rubber tube t o a reservoir-bottle which in turn is con-
nected by means of a second tube to the glass mouth-piece.
Both R and P tested this apparatus thoroughly in the light.
When the glass mouth-piece is placed in position in the mouth, air
can be forced into the U-tube so as t o raise the float in the free
end and lower that in the closed end; the tongue can then with
some difficulty be placed over the end hole and the unequal position
of the float s maintained with care for fort y or fifty seconds.
If the tongue be moved, the float s wobble up and down, and if
any attempt is made to speak or move any part of the mouth, face
or tongue, the floats at once revert t o normal position. M with
practice can hold the floats in strongly unequal position for
about two minutes, but it is not easy.
sa And what is the oblique explanation of this,- J . M. B.
488 THE lUARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
With full light on and M out of trance, R placed the mouth-
piece in position in M's mouth and told her to blow into it and seal
the third opening with her tongue. This she did, the floats reg-
istering about a foot difference in level. Lights out. W's voice at
once spoke clearly from high up on right side of cabinet , well
above M's head. VVhile the luminous floats remained constant in
position, R had his right hand holding M's left and his left placed
over Mrs. L's mouth ; P had her right hand over C's mouth,
her left over D's mouth, and Mr. L placed his mouth over P's
left arm, sucking the flesh above the elbow. Thus every mouth in
the room was controlled except only those of R and P .
.VV talked thus freely for some time, even interspersing his
voice with t hose of the others, including M.8
b R then asked him to
whistle, which he did with remarkable skill and clearness, in time
and tune to the Vict rola record. R then said "That's all very
well, Walter, but I wonder whether you could speak outside the
cabinet?" W ith startling suddenness there came a sepulchral
whisper from close behind R 's left ear, " Look-out or I'll get you,"
followed by sardonic chuckles: R nearly jumped out of his seat.
As a finale, W from quite low down in the cabinet , recited m a
clear, impressive voice four lines of a poem beginning-
" Live thou each day as if it were thy last."
Lat er on, red light and even white light was turned on but
W continued to chat with all present. M being out of trance could
hear him and j oined in the conversation; at one point at least,
her voice and W 's were speaking together.
At the second seance, as an additional test, R asked W to
intermingle his voice with those of all the other sitters in turn.
This he did readily enough, talking while C was speaking to R ,
and then while each other sitter was talking, right round the circle.
At the end of the above experiments, M was carefully examined
by R and P. No knots were found displaced and everything
was exactly as when control began. A large pair of scissors had
to be used to free M's hands and feet, all of which showed red
lines from the pressure of the rubber bands. A sample of the wire
and rubber was kept by R as an exhibit. The neck was freed by
unlocking the padlock on the strap.
M then moved t o a smaller cur tained cabinet situated in position
shown in published diagrams of room. M sat in a chain in
red light nearly all the time; no special controls except holding
sb After her release from the VCO.-J. M. B.
'
A DISTINGUISHED SITTER FROM ABROAD 489
hands for circle; no trance. Order of circle from left :-R, D, Mrs.
L, Mr. L, P, C on right of M.
A table was placed in front of the medium about a yard away.
4. Elect1·ic Bell Bo:r:.
This apparatus, by now well known, consists of a wooden box
containing electric batteries and wires, and carrying above it a
hinged flap held up at an angle of about 20 degrees by means of a
steel spring, not coiled but merely bent. If this flap were pressed
downwards with four or five ounces pressure, it makes contact
with a copper process below it, and the electric bell in the box rings.
R asked W to ring the bell, which he did, several times, in red
light; long rings, short rings and also continuous ringing.
R then lifted the box off the table and told W to ring the bell,
which he did at once. P and other sitters also tested him in this
way and he always complied.
Finally, the complex " completing the circle" experiment was
made. R picked up the box and told W to ring it; this he did.
While it was ringing, R carried the box right away from the
table to the book-shelves nine feet or more away, turned round
through 360 degrees, dodged about, lifted the box high up and
low down, making sure there were no wires or threads about.
He then returned and ha~ded the box, still ringing, to D, who was .
next, and he went through the same performance, the bell still
ringing; D passed it to the two L's in turn and they to P, all
doing the same stunts. The bell was rung all the time in good
red light.
During part of this experiment the telephone bell rang and
C was called away to it; W's voice and the ringing were not
affected by C's absence. W also talked and whistled all the time
that the bell was ringing.
5. Comstock's Scales.
The bell box "ivas removed and a specially built chemical bal-
ance designed by Comstock was placed on the table in full light
in front of the medium.
R and P examined this carefully; the metal parts were made
of brass, the pans of wood, and the whole apparatus was as delicate
as a fairly good chemical balance should be. With empty pans,
the long pointer registered zero, as it did also if the two pans were
interchanged. Five wooden chequers (draughts) were provided;
no trance and red light.
490 THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
R was told that he could use as many chequers as he liked and
p lace them on either balance, and VV would then tilt the balance
w·it h the empty pan down. R figured that most people would
put weights into the pan 'next them, so he put one chequer in
t he further pan; W at once, in red light, caused the empty pan
t o swing down against gravity. He did this again with white
bght from an electric torch on; both P and R looked and felt
all around, over and under the balance and passed their hands
between it and the medium, but could find nothing.
R t hen put on a second chequer and W repeated his per-
formance. Finally R put on the other three, making a total weight
of five chequers against nil, and still W tipped the empty scale
. downwards. When R did this, w· said "That's gravity; now
I'll show him the action of levity," and at once the empty scale
was tipped downwards. W explained that he got into the pan!
In white light, a general talk and discussion with W followed,
M being out of trance. W showed much animosity against Prof.
X, whose name was mentioned to him.
L ater on W sent two messages to X through R; but, needless
to say, the latter did not deliver them when he met him the next day;
they were:
" Tell him a live ghost is better than a live rat."
(This clearly referred to X's experiments with white rats
which P had seen being done the day before) and (in a hoarse,
sepulchral voice)-
" Tell him I'll meet him again SOON-OVER HERE."
(C explained to R that X and Y had abused their hospitality
in an unpardonable way and would not be welcomed to any further
seances.)
Tillyard in his London lecture has given us some account of the sort
of things that were said to him in Cambridge; but other documents of
a more private nature exist in which he is more explicit. There is, for
instance, the indignant letter which he wrote to McDougall from his
·hip, after his hurried departure from Boston. There is his further
con espondence with Crandon, with whom he maintains touch. Keep-
ing his hand on the pulse of public opinion and of publication as he
does, there is the manuscript which he prepared on reading McDougall's
Psyche article.9
This manuscript was offered to the British Journal
of Psychical Research and to my own Journal; the former could not
o See page 12, for citation and extract.
A DISTINGUISHED SITTER FROM ABROAD 491
use it on account of its having been forestalled by another contribution
from a different source; I held it for partial quotation in the present
volume. Tillyard's experience with McDougall in particula.r, more-
over, was not confined to Boston; he was in Europe simultaneously
with McDougall, and testifies to the latter's course of action there.
Thus, in a letter to Crandon under date of April 9th, 1927, he says:
McDougall has done a lot of very effective work in England, as
you can tell by the changed attitude of men like Feilding. He is
an expert in human psychology and plays the right card in every
case. In the case of the S.P.R. he is running the "word of a gen-
tleman" stunt, which takes the aristocratic Englishman every time.
So Code is to be believed, purely on his own word of honor.
I must in conclusion of this chapter give space to one expression by
Tillyard which goes into another field than that of verifying the
experiences of Schiller, Bond and Miss Walker. He tells Crandon:
I am deliberately staying outside the spiritualistic movement
because I want to examine these psychic phenomena purely in the
light of biology. They hang together with the processes of embry-
ology and creative evolution and must be studied as an unknown
portion of biological science. Probably when the truth is known we
shall find that spiritualism correctly expresses the religious as
contrasted with the scientific aspect of the phenomena.
This is the statement of a thoughtful scientist, who gives thoughtful
and unbiassed attention to anything that occurs in his presence-no
matter how far wide it may fall of his previous experience.
ASPR PROCEEDINGS VOLUME 2
Margery
PROCEEDINGS
of the
AMERICAN SOCIETY /or
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
VOLS. XX-XXI
(for the years 1926-1927)
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
(Volume 2)
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
15 Lexington Avenue
New York
1933
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGm
XLIV: The Margery Teleplasms: Observations and Generalizations . . . . . . . . 493
XLV: Unusual Teleplasmic Phenomena in 1926. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 503
XLVI: Notable Sittings in 1926. Houdini's Last Contact with the Case .... 514
XLVII: Miscellaneous Episodes of Late 1926. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 540
XLVIII: Margery in Winnipeg,-Three Seances of December, 1926. By T.
Glen Hamilton, M.D.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556
XLIX: Telekinesis of Early 1927. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 568
L: The Butler Apparatus. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588
LI: Five Outstanding Records of 1927. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 607
LII: Teleplasmic Structures and Telekinesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
LIII: Telekinesis of Later 1927. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
LIV: Telekinesis in 1928 and 1929. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 672
LV: Photographic Experiments in 1927-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
LVI: The McComas-Wood-Dunlap Commis"
sion and Its Report ..... . ...... 715
LVII: Post-Trance Recording of Seance Cognitions ....... .. .. . ... . . . .. .. 749
LVIII : The Boston-Venice Cross-Correspondence . ... ................ . .... .. 763
LIX: Cross-Correspondences. Transmitted Matter Selected in Absence of
All Mediums .. . ....... .. ... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 777
LX: Another Cross-Correspondence with Margery's Whereabouts Unlmown. 797
LXI : The Chinese Script and Cross-Correspondences. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
LXII: General Summary of Cross-Correspondences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 837
PREFACE.
The proposed plan of presenting as Proceedings of this
Society, a complete record of the Margery Mediumship from
January 1st, 1925, was worked out by J. Malcolm Bird as Re~
search Officer of the Society. He completed the :first volume
of the proposed record, which was published in 1928. When
Mr. Bird ceased to be Research Officer of the Society, he had
prepared considerable material for publication as the second
volume of the series. The work was not complete and the
Society decided that the method of treatment adopted by Mr.
Bird could be improved upon. Mr. Bird's idea had been to
describe all the classes of phenomena that occurred in certain
periods, thus making it necessary to skip from one subject to
another in what seemed to be a confusing manner. In the present
volume it seemed much better to change the plan and to treat
certain phases of the mediumship in full bringing those phases
down to the end of 1929. This, of course, results in the omis-
sion from this volume of many classes of phenomena that have
occurred during the same period, which phenomena must be
discussed at some future time. It is believed, however, that
the method here adopted will prove more effective and of greater
interest to the reader
During the period covered by this volume, the production of
:fingerprints constituted an important part of the phenomena.
It had been the intention to include a full description of the
fingerprint phenomena in this volume, as they have been most
important and a dominant feature of the mediumship during
the period in question; but recent developments in regard to
the alleged similarity between the "\Valter" prints and those
of a living person have made it necessary to do so much work
in re-classifying and re-studying these phenomena that it be-
came advisable to omit that portion from the present volume
and present it elsewhere when complete. We are glad to assure
our readers that presently it will be completed and we believe
to their satisfaction. The above circumstances may, at least to
a considerable extent, explain the delay in publishing this
volume.
The present volume, therefore, consists largely of a discus-
sion of telekinetic phenomena and cross-correspondences.
In the first volume Mr. Bird adopted a plan of making what
he called "open references", referring thereby to references to
be inserted in the first part of the second volume, directing the
reader to some place therein. In examining these open refer-
ences in the :first volume it has become apparent that it is
impractical to carry out this plan. The subjects to which many
of these open references refer are omitted from this volume.
In many instances what Mr. Bird had in mind in inserting his
''open references'' is not apparent. Therefore there is herein
no attempt to fill out such references. The preparation of the
material presented in this volume was done by various persons
under the general editorial supervision of the Research Com-
niittee of the Board of Trustees. The authorship of one chapter
is indicated in the text and credit is here given for the remainder.
Chapter XLIV was written by Doctor Crandon; Chapters XLVI
and LVI were written by Mr. Walton; the Cross-Correspond-
ences chapters by Doctor Richardson and the others were written
or compiled from the records by Mr. Dudley.
CHAPTER XLIV
The Margery Teleplasms: Observations and Generalizations
Wb.en, in a mediumistic seance, objects move and the usual
normal causes of such motion, such as lifting by hand, foot or
head, strings, wires and levers, magnetism, electricity, wind,
gravity or radioactivity, are excluded, such motion is, never-
theless, no miracle. We have only something supernormal, re-
peated again and again: supernormal because we cannot explain
it in normal ways.
Our observation of such telekinetic phenomena in the Mar-
gery mediumship leads us to believe that they are all carried on
by a material known as teleplasm. It should be noted, however,
that Walter never uses this word or its older equivalent, ecto-
plasm. He apparently holds force and matter to be one, being
thus in harmony with the very latest developments in orthodox
physical theory. He appears to feel that his material and the
animating force are identical. l-Ie applies to either alone, or
to both in conjunction, the term energy.
Nevertheless, from the viewpoint of sensorial experience,
the word teleplasm is quite essential, and it will be used without
further apology. It appears that the definite physical qualities
which this substance exhibits in the performance of its many
phenomena depend on a greater or a lesser densi.ty, or viewed
from the other angle, a greater or a lesser tenuity. Thus when
a small basket rolls on a shelf in front of the Psychic and the
observer passes his clasped arms through the entire zone be-
tween the Psychic and the basket, we believe that the teleplasmic
rod from the Psychic's body is either so tenuous that the arm
of the observer passes through it without breaking it, or that
the rod by some means comes from a fourth direction. Wb.en
the scales are made to balance a four-to-none load in red or
white light, we have evidence 1
of the presence of a form of
1 M. M., Chap. XLIII.
493
494 MARGERY l\IIEDIUl\IISHIP
teleplasm invisible to the eye ·and intangible to the finger, not
seen wllen photographed by a glass lens but visible when photo-
graphed by a fused quartz lens. Here is apparently a psychic
structure, invisible and intangible, but nevertheless emitting
or reflecting an ultra-violet light. Again, when under perfect
conditions of control, but in the dark, sitters receive touches
by a teleplasmic terminal, we have this material in a form tangi-
ble but, presumably, invisible. Finally we observe teleplasm
at the maximum density seen in this mediuinship, when in good .
red light we see, feel, handle, weigh and take the temperature
of the teleplasmic mass on the table in front of us. \i\Then the
substance has this density our senses not only record it, but
the glass camera lens, as well as the quartz lens confirms what
we see. The varieties of teleplasm here described may be due
merely to differences in density but probably the differences
are much more complex in origin and development. They may
be allotropic forms as distinct as those of carbon, namely: char-
coal, graphite and diamond; and from this viewpoint a careful
analysis of their physical characteristics is extremely impor-
tant. Bird 2
has suggested one way in which the various ob-
servations which are made of the teleplasm may be systema-
tized with orthodox scientific theory; and while dissenting from
some of the details of his hypothesis, it is cited here in emphasis
upon our complete belief that the phenomenon is a natural onet
and in no sense a miracle.
The mass which comes from the trunk, and sometimes from
the ears of the Psychic, is a light brownish gray color as seen
in the red light. There is a distinct variety, howeyer, coming·
from the right ear which is a dead white in color, like wax, or
slightly yellow: the color of noodles. Both these forms are
entirely opaque.
The temperature has been taken twice by having the mass
laid on a chemist's thermometer. One time it was 40° Fahren-
heit and the other time 42°. The room temperature at the time
was 70°.
2 Journal, A.S.P.R., March, 1928, pp. 127ff.
THE MARGERY TELEPL·.ASMS 495
The weight of a crude teleplasmic hand has been judged to
be between four and six ounces.
The teleplasmic hand pulls against a sitter, both the sjtter
and the materialized ·hand having hold of a basket. The
strength of the pull has been estimated several times as from
four to seven pounds. A teleplasmic hand banging down on
top of a spring-operated bath scales has recorded 36 pounds.
The mass is cold to the observer's hand, and has a clammy
feeling. After the contact is broken the sitter would declare
that his hand must be wet but that is a sensation only. ·william
Blake 3
described it as ''wet with the water that wets not''.
The mass is more or less like new rubber in consistency and
resiliency but the rubber feeling is more than the mere action
and reaction of squeezing rubber. The mass often squirms
and appears to have life in itself. This liveness is further
confirmed by the fact that if the sitter squeezes the mass, how-
ever gently, and quite in the dark, :without announcement of
the squeezing, the Psychic will groan as if hurt. At times the
mass almost seems to be made up of individual fibres of live
longitudinal cords about one-sixth of an inch in diameter. This
is especially the case with the cords joining it to the Psychic's
orgamsm.
If one of the crude hands is p-
alpated deeply, we find what
appear to be normal bones; i11 the right relation but rarely
enough of them. Thus the fingers seldom present more than
two phalanges ; the terminal one being then missing. Finger-
nails may or may not be present. At one time one finger showed
as if it were a fusion of two fingers with the distal phalanges
split and bearing two finger nails. All the metacarpals may
be missing with the carpals present. The forearm may contain
one long bone or two, as in the normal. There is generally no
muscular enlargement of the upper part of the forearm. It
appears to be only skin over the bone.
The gray masses that form the crude hands are attached
to the body by something closely resembling an umbilical cord. .
3 1757-1827.
496 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
This cord is one-half to one and one-half inches in diameter.
It appears as if tTVisted, as an umbilical cord frequently is.
There is no pulse in it. About six inches from the edge of the
table between the table and the Psychic, it frequently, but not
always, has on it a kind of ruff or cuff similar to the circular
metal flange which is put on the mooring-line of a ship to pre-
vent rats from crawling aboard. The cord is of the same origin
as the umbilical cord of an infant. The white masses of tele-
plasm overlying the P sychic's face have cords of somewhat
different character, issuing from the ear and the nose. In each
case we infer that the teleplasm has been extruded from the
particular anatomical orifice to which the cord attaches; but
this is only inference.
The complete hand and forearm may appear three minutes
after the beginning of the sitting or may not appear for half
an hour. When first seen coming from the ear, for example,
it looks like a waxen plug in the external orifice. After a period
of five or six seconds, the light is put out for half a minute
up to three minutes, and is then put on again, under instruc-·
tions, and we find the mass has grown down the side of the face.
The hand, now put on it in the dark, can feel it swell, push
and extend itself downwards and forwards toward the mouth
of the Psychic. The next view may show it partly covering
the face of the Psychic and the next completely covering it.
This living mass may then extend downwards in a kind of a
white sheet until it reaches the table or even the floor. When
it gets this size there forms, as if for better exhibition, a long
proboscis having its base on the nose, divided more or less
like the four legs of the Eiffel Tower. The long staff of this
grows forward parallel to the floor and over this the teleplasmic
sheet hangs like a tent over a ridge pole. The largest one we
have seen was about 24- x 84 inches. This sheet, which Walter
calls his "shining garment,'' appears sometimes as a smooth
uniform mass, or like coarse or fine lace. Walter declares,
and close examinatiOll confirms, that the lace, however, is lace
in i:q)pearance only. The sheet is more or less like the omentum
on a sheep (whjch comes wrapped around a leg of lamb),
THE MARGERY TELEPL,ASMS 497
namely, one perfect and complete sheet, in some places trans-
lucent and in others dense and thick. This growth from the
ear may be luminous in itself or may be only luminous by ab-
sorption following a white photographic flash. .The actual
amount of light coming from it is probably very small. It
appears to be slightly bluish.
The experiments of Geley with the medium Kluski led us
in the summer of 1924, in the presence of members of the Scien-
tific American Committee, to provide molten paraffin to see what
Walter could do with it. The paraffin was a zone about five
inches thick, melted, on top of a zone of five inches of boiling.
water. It was about 212° at the beginning of the experiment
and about 180° at the end. The experiment was a new one to
us and the control conditions were only fair. A "swishing
about'' was heard in the paraffin pail. Bird was told to carry
the pail across the room, and shortly he was told to look in a
black cloth near where the pail now was. In it he found a paraf-
fin glove with a narrow wrist. The next day this was poured
full of plaster of Paris, the paraffin then was melted away,
and the result was a cast of a hand with narrow wrist, sho\:ving
normal human skin-markings, bones and other complete details
of normal anatomy. It had no measurements like those of the
Psychic or Dr. Crandon.4
This experiment was not repeated until 1926, at which time
numerous hands and parts of hands were molded in paraffin,
starting at the time of Tillyard's visit. The control conditions
were better and the results were gloves, some of them full size,
some reduced in all measurements, all masculine, all right hands,
none of them having a deformed index finger such as Margery's
husband has, and all of them having the same tint in the wax
which the pail of wax had. Concerning the fraudulent produc-
tion of the paraffin gloves, our experiences are the same as those
of Geley, who says :5
"We are perfectly certain of the super-
normal origin of ours, not because we judge that they cannot
possibly be imitated [under any conditions], but because all
4 For full details see M. M., Chapter XLI.
s Clairvoyance and Materialization; translated by De Erath; pp. 246 et seq.
498 MARGEl~Y MEDIUMSHIP
the conditions under which they ~~rere produced leaves us no
possible doubt on the facts.''
Another specialized form which the teleplasm takes on is
what Walter calls his ''talking apparatus.'' The \¥alter voice
which has been described many times is proved, apparently,
by mechanical means to be independent of the normal use of
the anatomy and physiolog-y of' the Psychic. But so far as
we know, to form the words there must be developed a tele-
plasmic structure in some way similar to the living human organ
used therefor. To confirm this we have many times seen and
photographed a teleplasmic structure which vVa1ter says he
uses for the production of the independent. voice. There is
almost no similarity, however, between this structure, as we
see it, and the human voice-producing mechanism. It is pos-
sible that in the dark his mechanism ''flowers out'' to resemble
the human structures. In the light it resembles nothing human.
vValter 's speaking mechanism may be described as follows:
There is a mass which may be either gray or white, about
4 x 2 x 2 inches, resembling the size and shape of a potato. Its
contour is irregular. At times, as we look at it, it seems to
simulate a small face much like the dried heads of the head
hunters of the South Seas, heads from which the bones have
been removed. To the top of this structure from the right ear
there is a white cord one-sixth to one-quarter of an inch in
diameter, smooth. From the little mouth, as it were, of the
potato-like face there comes a structure much like the human
umbilical cord, one-fourth to one-half of an inch in diameter,
twisted, and 8 to 12 inches long. This enters the right nostril
of the Psychic. The white ear cord and the twisted cord to the
nose are long enough to allow the central mass to rest on the
Psychic's right shoulder or her chest or her face or her left
shoulder. We have many photographs of this structure and
the photogTaphs confirm what our eyes see. (See e.g., illus-
trations in Vol. I, Ch. XVI.) We have handled the mass and
find it like other teleplasmic masses, cold and yet vibrant with
life. The fact that this structure is attached to the nose ex-
plains probably why any and every sitter is not allowed to
THE MARGERY TELEPL•
ASMS · 499
put a hand over the Psychic's mouth whenever he chooses, as
a test of the independence of the voice. This experiment of
hand over mouth of the Psychic during the IV"alter voice has
been done many times (Comstock, Carrington, Bird, Richard-
son, Hill) . Walter explains, however, that when he allows
this experiment his voice · apparatus must be detached from
its usual sources of origin and attached to some other part
of the body of the Psychic. This apparently is a considerable
feat even for vValter, and when he does this experiment he says
he can do no other the same night.
At the end of the phenomena the mass from the ear takes
two to four minutes to disappear. On exposure to red light of
the :i:nasses of every origin there is immediately seen a kind
of shrinking as if the light were inimical to it, or similar to
that of meat suddenly exposed to a very hot fire or cautery-iron.
The disappearance of the mass may be observed. It seems
to go back to the orifice whence it comes. The last moment of
disappearance we have been allowed to see twice. It is difficult
to describe. The mass shrinks in volume, but not continuously.
The last view shows considerable mass and then all at once
there is nothing. It is comparable to the cloud of white water-
vapor seen coming out of a factory exhaust pipe. At first a
large, white, opaque, substantial-looking cloud or mass- then
all at once there is nothing. The recent climbers of Mt." Everest
called attention to the fact that snow at high altitudes does not
go through a liquid stage when it disappears. The evaporation
is direct: Solid-then gas. First there is snow-then there
is nothing.
The terminals have been seen and felt and most of them
photographed in many forms. The mass may be amorphous,
perhaps roughly like a small French loaf or like a dirigible
balloon in shape. In the second period of red light it may be
shown that this mass has taken on the form of a crude hand
with five fingers or sometimes with two of the five fingers fused
together. Sometimes the hand is observed to have a terminal
with four fingers and a thumb with all the extremities long,
perhaps seven inches, coming to a sharp point, the region of
500 M.ARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the palm shrunken; the whole hand being like a caricature of
a hand, or the hand of a nightmare figure. The hand, however,
may show itself in every detail of improving perfection up to
what appears to be a complete hand. There may be nothing
corresponding to integument. That is, the surface may look
like the cross-cut surface of an animal tissue, like liver or lung.
It may be covered with a thick, humpy skin like that of a toad.
The finger nails, as has been said, may be absent or incom-
plete. The rod may be single, with a curved hook on its end,
or it may be double as if a thumb and forefinger only. The
shape apparently 'is determined by the telekinetic problem
before it.
When the amorphous teleplasmic mass is developed from
the lower part of the body, it is usually discovered by the sitter
whose right hand controls the Psychic's left hand. His hand
discovers a large, soft, rubbery, cold, uniform mass, more or
less like the after-birth of a baby, resting on the left thigh of
the medium. This mass is then shortly heard to flop on the
table in front of the medium. At times it is put from the thigh
to the table by the left hand of the medium still held by the
right hand of the observer. This motion seems to be auto-
matic, protective or maternal. The subsequent motions of the
amorphous mass or even of the crude hands are not towards
the medium as if pulled by a cord, but seem to be definitely
self-propelling. The motions, however, appear gradually and
then stop as if the energy were, for the time, exhausted. Ding-
wall introduces an excellent British word.to describe the motion.
He says "The mass slithers along."
A very worthy part of the privilege and duty of scientific
observers is to confirm the findings of others. A matter of
years after our first experiments with the teleplasmic mass,
as here given, were made, De Erath's translation of Geley's
last book describes the appearance and action of the teleplasm
in a manner quite similar to ours. It is well worth quoting :6
The volume of substance extruded is variable, sometimes abun-
dant, · sometimes scanty, with all intermediate grades. In a few
instances it covers the medium like a mantle.
oLoc. cit., pp. 184-6.
THE MARGERY TELEPL•ASMS 501
. The substance may be white, grey, or black, the first being the
more frequent, possibly as being more easily observed. Occasionally
all three colors are visible at the same time. The visibility of the
substance is variable; it occasionally is stronger or weaker. To
the touch also it varies according to the form it takes at the
moment, seeming soft and inelastic when widely spread, hard,
knotty, and fibrous when it forms cords. Sometimes it feels like a
spider's web, but in the thread-like form it seems both stiff and
elastic.
The substance is mobile. Sometimes it develops slowly, ascends
and descends over the medium's shoulders, breast, or knees with a
creeping movement; sometimes its motion is very quick, appearing
and disappearing in a flash. It is highly sensitive, and this sensi-
bility is communicated to the medium, who feels painfully any touch
upon the substance. If the touch is rough or prolonged, it produces
a sensation in the medium comparable to a touch on raw flesh.
It is sensitive even to rays of light. A bright and unexpected
light perturbs the medium, but this effect of light is also very vari-
able; in certain cases even daylight is endured. The magnesium
flash causes the medium to start violently, but the substance can
stand it: this allows of instantaneous photography.
In the effects of light on the substance and its reaction on th8
medium, it is difficult to distinguish between what is really painful
or only reflex; but whichever it be, it interferes with experimenta·
tion. Fnr this reason cinematographic photographs have been
unsuccessful, with the exception of one taken by Schrenck-Notzing.
Besides its sensitiveness, the substance seems to show a kind of
instinct analogous to that of the invertebrate animals. It seems
to have the same kind of distrust as a defenceless animal, and pro-
tects itself by retreat into the body from which it has issued. It
seems to fear being touched, and is always ready to avoid this by
reabsorption.
It has a constant and immediate tendency to organize itself, and
does not long remain in its primitive state, Often this organization
is so rapid that its first amorphous state is scarcely seen at all; at
other times the amorphous substance and more or less complete
forms embedded in the mass can be seen at the same time; for
instance, a finger on the fringe, or even heads and faces wrapped
in the substance.
The crude formations, simulating perfection but far from
it, are really of great confirmatory value. Geley puts it thus :7
'l'hese simulacra, whose metapsychic origin is indisputable (and
this is a crucial point), have disconcerted and worried many observ-
ers. ''One would think,'' said M. de Fontenay, ''that some malevo-
lent imp was laughing at the observers.''
7 Lac. cit., pp. 188ff.
502 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
But these simulacra can easily be explained. They are the
products of weak power using still weaker m-eans of execution; it
does what i t can, and rarely succeeds, because its activity, diverted
from its usual course, no longer has the certainty of action which
normal biologic impulse gives to a physiological act.
During the whole time that the phenomenon of materializations
lasts there is obvious physiological and psychological rapport with
the medium. Tlw physiolog-ical link is sometimes perceptible as a
thin cord of substance connecting the form to the medium, much as
the umbilical cord unites the -embryo to its mother. Even when
this link is not visible the physiolog·ical connection is close; every
impression received by the teleplasm reacts on the medium, and
conversely. Everything goes to show that ·the teleplasm is the
medium herself, partially externalized.
The defects in some materializations do not imply fraud, but
quite otherwise.
What, then, is the cause of these defects 1 Our present knowl-
-edge enables us to answer this question. Since teleplasmic forma-
tion is a function (a) of a dynamic and material externalization of
the medium and (b) of ideoplastic organization of the externalized
elements, it is easy to understand why perfect materializations
should be few.
To build up in a few seconds an organ or an organism biolog-
ically complete-to create life-is a metapsychical feat which can
but rarely produce a perfect result. That is why the great major-
ity of materializations are incomplete, fragmentary, defective, and
show lacunae in their structure.
The forms are seldom other than more or less successful
attempts at hands, faces, and organisms. But in these attempts
we find almost always the marks of creative power, the sign-manual
of Life. In these rough forms the enigma of universal life-the
relation of the Idea to Matter-is revealed in the splendor of its
b-eauty. ·
CHAPTER XLV
Unusual Teleplasmic Phenomena in 1926
The first presentation of teleplasmic structures of the type
hereunder consideration is described in Chapter XLI (Vol. I),
which should be read in this connection.
JUNE 5, 1926: The seance began at 9 :00 P.M., with the follow-
ing circle: Margery, "Monty" Ha.rclwicke, Dr. Overstreet, Richard-
son, Newman Gray, Dudley, Hill, Mrs. Richardson, Crandon.
Walter manifested after about three. minutes and, after Overstreet
had been introduced, said, "Light on, table out, pails in (hot
paraffin and cold water pails in box frame), 'Monty' in place
of Mrs. Richardson, Dr. Overstreet at the left, then close up the
circle.'' As soon as these changes had been made and the light
turned out Walter added, "I said, close up the circle. Get it as
compact as possible.'' The chairs were brought closer together
and nearer the cabinet.
Splashing was heard in the paraffin pail and Walter remarked,
"My, that paraffin's hot," adding, a little later, "I was just
testing it."
When asked about a remark that he made at the last seance,
about the storage of energy in one of the sitters, he said, ''You
cannot make use of that force but it would make the holder of it
feel young.'' Overstreet asked him how he perceived the owner
of an object (presented for cognition) and \Valter replied: "I
perceive the vibrations much as you detect anything by smell. In
coming· into this life I have to put on the senses of this life much
as you put on an overcoat. It is not considered pleasant work
by many and they would not attempt it unless they had to. They
would not do it because they are not interested as I am. I have
to malce special preparations for diff-
erent tests if I am to see
things in a physical sense, and I have to know beforehand so that
I can draw from the circle the particular form of energy which
will enable me to build that sense. I have to clothe myself with
different energies for different things, but the teleplasm I take
from the medium or mediums.''
Following a talk with Overstreet about a friend of his who
was ill there was an extended discussion of methods of perception
and a description of ·what might be called the limitations of time
and space from Walter's viewpoint.
Crandon, Hardwicke and Overstreet reported touches, the latter
four times as with a firm object. Splashing was heard in the
paraffin pail, and Walter again said that he was testing the hot
503
504 MARGERY lVIEDIUMSHIP
wax, then asked for red light. With the mantel light on at nearly
full brilliancy everyone saw a proboscis projecting horizontally
from a conical mass of white material covering most of the Psy-
chic's face. 'fhe probo.cis was cybndrical, about 3,4 inch diameter,
and estimated by Dudley and Hill as about 10 inches long. (Cran-
don, seated at right angles to the cabinet, thought it about 18
inches long.) The light seemed to affect it for it became limp
about six inches from the end and hung downward. With the
light out Walter said that he could make it luminous, and at once
a luminous mass se-emed to detach itself from a point corresponding
to the former position of the end of this proboscis, descend to the
level of the Psychic's knees, change from oval to globular and
back again, form an oval about 5 inches by 10 inches approximately
at the l-evel of the Psychic's head, then return to her lap. Starting
from there it developed into a ribbon about 3 inches wide by 3
feet high, then collapsed. A few seconds later, in red light, the
proboscis was seen as a cantilever supporting a sheet of white
material about 6 to 8 inches wide (depending on the point of view)
and nearly 3 feet long, with a bottom width of 2 to 2.5 inches
and, at the top, approximately 1.5 inches thick. It appeared to
be solid ; i.e., it did not seem to be fabric-like; while the proboscis
was slightly curved as though carrying a load. In the succeeding
period of darkness a luminous ma.s was seen in the same position.
'fhis grew taller and narrower until the top appeared to be more
than 6 feet above the floor, the ·width being from 4 to 5 inches.
While the top remained stationary the lower end developed until
it reached the level of the box frame around the pails, whereupon
there was a sharp rap as though the 'vood had been struck with
a solid obj-ect.
In a subsequent period of reel light the proboscis had grown
about 5 inches longer, and a filmy, lace-like mass, creamy white
in color, was draped over it. This was about 12 inches wide at
the top and hung in folds and streamers to a l-ength of about 30
inches.
Following the above observation in red light there was a period
of darkness in which the mass (now luminous) extended to the
top of the cabin-et, while the lower end ·swayed about and ap-
proached M. Hardwicke. Hill said that it seemed very cold in
the vicinity of this mass. A red-light view of the extended structure
showed it as a lacy mass about 6 feet long, and in strips 2 to 3
inch-es wide. It gradually faded from view in the subsequent
period of darkness.
In closing the circle at 10 :32 P.M., Walter said that the paraffiu
was not very good and he was afraid he could not use it.
The controls were checked at intervals during the dark periods
and were visually checked in red light. Hill checked the Crandon-
Margery link once during the presentation o£ the luminous tele-
plasm in darkness.
UNUSUAL TELEPLASMIC PHENOMENA IN 1926 505
The seance of June 6th, unlike the above, was held in part
in the glass cabinet. Most of the descriptive matter given
below is taken from Crandon's record, and concurred in by
Dudley. There was no expectation that visible teleplasmic phe-
nomena would be presented in what was planned as a standard-
ized seance. It began somewhat later than usual: at 9:25 P.M.1
Only that part dealing with the luminous phenomena is pre-
sented at this point.
After cognitions of articles, rocking of luminous basket on shelf,
removal of shelf and levitation of the small basket (the one with
luminous bands on handle), Walter asked that one wooden letter
be placed in the large (non-luminous) basket and that the latter
be placed on the floor of the cabinet at the Psychic's right. Judging
from the subsequent sounds this basket was levitated well up in
the cabinet, then a luminous patch appeared in the vicinity of
Margery's head. This patch became longer, developed into two
vertical streamers, each about 3 inches wide, which united at their
upper ends and became one streamer which waved about and bent
over as though dipping into the basket. The latter was faintly
visible in silhouette as the end of the column passed downward,
and seemed to be about on a level with the Psychic's face. This
dipping action was repeated ; Walter saying that he had the basket
full of energy. At times the luminous mass appeared to be about
8 inches in front of the cabinet, at others it waved about inside
the cabinet, and even behind the Psychic's body. On one of its
excursions to the front of the cabinet the end reached to the floor.
It finally disappeared in the region of the medium's right knee.
This part of the seance came to an end with the introduction
of the VCO at about 9:50P.M.
The sitting of July 3d 2 was marked by the presentation of
considerable masses of luminous teleplasm, the descriptions of
which are taken from Crandon's record as follows:
JuLY 3d: In the old cabinet. Trance came on almost imme-
diately; and before long, luminosity appeared in the region of the
Psychic's lap and then became faint. Shortly after this Hill said,
"Walter, what are you doing to me? I feel numb from the collar
bone down." Walter laughed at him and said, "I have a surprise
J. The sitters, reading clockwise as usual, were: Margery, Overstreet,
Mrs. John Stewart, Crandon, "Monty" Hardwicke, Mr. McCord, Edison Brown,
John Stewart. Outside, in same order: J. F. Adler, Mrs. Brown, Dudley, Newman
Gray, Mr. Burns.
. 2 The sitters in order as above were: DeWycko:ff, Hill, Mr. and Mrs. Litzelmann,
Mrs. De Wyckoff and Crandon.
506 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
for the Judge. I am now taking stuff out of the Judge, my material
which I stored away in him some weeks ago." Thereupon, >ve
saw a faint glow of light, eight inches in diameter, in the region
of the Judge's abdomen which hovered about and then went over
to Psyche. Later the Judge said something about sensations in
the region of his navel. Whereupon, Walter said, ''Yes, that is
my nayal base where I keep my battleships, the rest of my armor
I store in the room here. That means my airplanes and guns, so
don't fl.ash any bright light here after the sitting."
The luminous material now developed with great rapidity, until
it reached the top of the cabinet and nearly to the floor, and
spread out from DeWyckoff's side to nearly three feet in width.
Walter gave us, in all, eight views of the luminous teleplasm in
bright red light. It hung like lace over an 18-inch proboscis from
the Psychic's face, the Psychic's scalp and upper half of her face
being covered with dense white stuff. Walter said the proboscis
is gray stuff from the Psychic, and the white lace material comes
from Hill. It went six and one-half to seven feet up from the
floor, and it could be seen to shrink and .hrivel whenever light
was turned on. .At another view, not only was the mass hanging
down from the face but on top of it was built a perfect cone of
lace reaching from the nose up to the top of cabinet, two to three
feet, shaped like the conical head-gear of women in the fourteenth
century.
Walter said, ''This teleplasm is like a bathrobe, a shining gar-
ment. Into this people from my side want to come through if I
let them, and then the garment molds itself to fit each one' form
and becomes thus transfigured into the spirit's image. No one
can get in unless I let them. It illustrates the old Bible word
'transfiguration'." Every member of the circle got touches. The
luminous structure could be seen approaching the person, and then
the touch was reported. Many times the luminous stuff took on
the form of the canopy that is shown round the faces of "extras"
on psychic photographs.
The sitting of the next evening was held in the old cabinet,
as was usually the case when development work was in progress.
The following description is taken from Crandon's report,3
as
is that of the succeeding seance.
Walter came through promptly, saying, "I didn't expect to
see you folks here tonight.'' .Asked how he happened to be there,
he replied, '' Oh, I have to be around to protect you people from
other visitors.''
The Psychic was now in trance, and shortly a luminous mass
s The sitters were : DeWyckoff, . Adler, Mrs. Brown, E. W. Brown, Mrs.
DeWyckoff and Crandon.
UNUSUAL TELEPLASMIC PHENOMENA IN 1926 507
was seen in the region of her lap. This traveled all about in
stately and dignified motion, and from time to time throughout
its motion Mrs. De Wyckoff had control of both Crandon 's hands
and of the Psychic's right, while De Wyckoff always had her left.
Walter took a megaphone, strung a luminous doughnut on the top
of it and passed it down under the table in a direction away
from the cabinet, and up over the table in a complete circle three
times. 'l'his had to be done either by two terminals, or by one
terminal capable of penetrating the substance of the table.
JuLY lOth: In the old cabinet,4
the Psychic went into trance
shortly, and in about five minutes Walter greeted us. He said
in -
effect that he felt that the public was now being admitted too
much and to the detriment of .advanced work, and begged that we
give him just one year of concentrated sittings and after that the
public ·would see such finished work as to close all argument. He
said, ''Have no more than one public meeting a ·week.''
The .Judge then spoke of certain sensations in his waistcoat,
and shortly thereafter the sitters saw a luminous cloud, perhaps
eight inches in diameter, form at his waistcoat, detach itself, and
float over to the Psychic's lap. Thereupon, and thereafter, a great
luminous cloud developed, of which we were given five views. In
good red light it was a thick white, plastered all over the face with
a proboscis sticking out, and from that trailed down to below
the table a long, lacy extension; perhaps eight inches wide, and
four feet long. Under the influence of the light we could see the
proboscis wilt as if soluble in light. Occasional dips in the paraffin
and waterpail could be heard, and the light kept frequently going
down into the paraffin. At the end Walter said that he had wrapped
his force in part around the pail containers and in part, he had
restored it to the Judge as to a thermos bottle.. On being told
that we must empty the papier-mache pail into the galvanized pail,
or else we couldn't get the paraffin melted, he said : "Very well,
then, I '11 store it somewhere else, but do not come into this room
tomorrow and do not let any light into it until your next sitting
three days from now."
The sitting of July 16th presented an interesting sequence
of telekinetic and visible teleplasmic phenomena, the descrip-
tions of which are abstracted from Dudley's report of the
seance :6
The pail of hot water carrying about two inches of melted
paraffin on its surface was in place in the box frame, together
4 The sitters in order, as above : Richardson, Signora Fidelia Dinsmore Papa,
Hill, Mrs. Richardson, Crandon. Outside: Dr. Zeliq«:on, Miss Laura Grandou,
Miss Carmen Matienza.
o The sitters were: Richardson, Dudley, Russell Conant, Hill, Mrs. Richardson
and Crandon. Outside: Mr. and Miss Matienza and Miss Laura Crandon.
508 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
with the pail of cold water; the box occupying the space where
the table is ordinarily placed. (See Plate No. 37.)
Margery was reported (by Crandon) as in trance very quicldy,
and Walter manifested almost at once. He did not attempt any
more finger prints,7 seeming to prefer to talk on a variety of
subjects. Dudley had suggested the desirability of testing the
· temperature of one of the psychic lights (which almost always seem
very cold) and Walter said that he would let the former put
a thermometer in one and see what would happen. (A maximum
and minimum thermometer was arranged in a wooden holder for
the purpose of this experiment but there has been no opportunity
to complete the test.)
Hill reported touches on the right leg, below the knee, on the
left leg in a similar place, then a firm touch on the thigh, followed
by simultaneous touches on the insides of both thighs as with
two terminals. He reported other touches below the knees. Cran-
don reported touches on the face, hand and leg, in order; Conant,
on the leg; and Richardson stated that he was touched several
times on hands and legs. Dudley noted that Richardson's left
hand moved under the pressure of one of these touches, and that
there was a sensation as though a cold body were present. Both
Hill and Richardson described these touches as giving the sensation
of a contact with a real hand. Dudley was touched on the right
knee, quite iirmly, as with a terminal about 2¥2 inches in diameter,
with four small knobs round its edge. Richardson reported simul-
taneous touches on his left knee and right leg. While all these
touches were taking place Mrs. Richardson reported double control
of the Crandon-Margery link and of Crandon's right hand.
Hill reported that his trouser leg was being pulled, then that
his foot waS lifted and placed on the edge of the box, and his
shoe lace was being untied. He added that something was moving
up inside his trouser leg, that his garter was being unfastened
and the stocking pulled down; following this with the statement
that he felt a touch on his bare leg as of a cold'· hand. Walter
said that he was doing all this. Hill added that his stocking was
pushed up and, after· two trials, the garter was fastened. Walter
said, ''You ought to get some new garters,'' and told him ·to take
his foot down. Hill admitted that the elastic was badly stretched,
that he needed new garters, and noted that the operation of
fastening this somewhat inelastic garter would seem to require
the equivalent of two hands.
The sound of splashing was heard in the paraffin pail. A little
later there were two views, in red light, of the proboscis previously
described. It grew out of a white mass on the Psychic's face,
its center about on a level of the upper lip, projected horizontally
about 18 inches, and tapered with an average diameter of appro:JQ::._
~--.--.....-.
1 Imprints on glass, plastic material not having been introduced till later. -......_
PLATE 37. BOX FRAME SUPPOR'l'ING l'IBRE PAIL OF HO'l' WATER AND PARAFFIN, AND
METAL PAIL OF COLD WATER FOR PARAFFIN GLOVE EXPERIMENTS. NOTE CLOT'H
SHEILF AT RIGHT, ON WHICH FINISHED CAS'l'S WERE PLACED, AND POSITION OF
PSYCHIC'S CHAIR. IN SOME SEANCES ~'HE PARAFFIN PAIL WAS AT •rHE PSYCHIC's.
RIGII'r.
UNUSUAL TELEPLASMIC PHENOMENA IN 1926 509
mately one inch. As soon as the red light came on it drooped
quickly at a point about half way from its base, much as wax
would act under the influence of heat.
Walter said that he had accomplished a great deal at this sitting
and asked for the next on Wednesday of the following week ;
adding that he WaJ1ted the chairs left as they were except that
Hill and his chai1· should be at the medium's left.
The sitting closed at 10 :50 P.M., having lasted almost two hours.
After the seance it was see~ tl1at there was a long approximately
cylindrical mass of partially melted paraffin floating on the fluid
wax, and that this bore a marked resemblance to the shape of the
proboscis already described: as though Walter had been trying to
make a paraffin mold of the structure.
The sitting of the next evening, also abstracted from Dud-
ley's notes, was held in the old cabinet, with the pails of melted
paraffin and cold water in their box as before.8
JuLY 17, 1926: Margery was reported as in trance, and Walter
manifested promptly, talking about a poem which he said that
he had in process. He ragged Hill about referring to him as "It"
(as the latter had done in conversation in the book room, but in
Margery's absence), then said that he was ''going to tap Hill's
naval base for some energy," and asked him to relax. Hill re-
ported firm touches on his abdomen, over navel, and a cold, draw-
ing sensation as though something were being pulled out. This
continued at intervals until, at last, a luminous patch was seen
floating about between Hill and the Psychic. This was first noted
by Hill, and later by the others in the circle as it became brighter.
At first it had no distinct outline, was of irregular form, and
might have been 3lj
2 by 6 inches. It changed rapidly in size and
shape becoming a more brightly luminous strip about 2 inches
wide and from 2' to 3 feet in length, which suddenlY collapsed to
form a disk about 8 or 9 inches in diameter. Taking the form of a
loop it seemed to have been held at the top as on a rod, and to
be elastic, so that the lower part of the loop formed a. narrow
oval. The circumference was about 11.4 inches wide, and the whole
appeared self-luminous. The loop became a strip about 3 to 4
feet in length which moved rapidly about. At times the lower end
was near the floor, at others the upper end would be at the level
of the top of the cabinet. As it moved from side to side it changed
in width and length from moment to moment, its luminosity varying
from bright to dim· and back again, occasionally fading out alto-
gether for a few seconds. It again became a luminous disk-like
s The sitters, in order: Hill, Richardson, Dudley, Walton and Crandon.
Throughout these seances Hill and Dudley compared notes as to the dimensions
and form of the teleplasmic structures and were in as close agreement as would
be possible considering the different angles of view.
510 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
mass which was quiescent and horizontal in the region of the
Psychic's lap, while Hill reported further touches over the abdomen,
and a repetition of the drawing sensation.
Again the mass became active, taking the form of a rather
thick column about 18 inches high which moved about the circle
near the floor with great rapidity and with a dancing motion.
Passing in front of Hill it danced back and forth in front of
Richm:dson, across in front of Dudley, and then in and out between
Walton's knees, the latter reporting a firm touch on his right knee
as the column came close to him. It then came close to Dudley's
knees, then passed quickly to a corresponding position in front of
Richardson only to move rapidly to Walton.
All these movements were made close to the observers, they
could look down on this luminous column and see it clearly. 'rhere
was neither sound nor odor accompanying· its movement, but there
was a distinct sensation of coolness as though one were in the
presence of a very cold body which was absorbing heat energy,
even through the clothing of the sitters.
The column returned to the vicinity of the Psychic's lap and,
after a brief rest, rose in a tall, narrow column to the height of
the cabinet, and at this moment Hill and Crandon reported that
the cabinet moved forward about three inches.
There followed a series of transverse movements of the column,
now about 4 feet long, some of which occurred with great rapidity.
In a subsequent period of red light the Psychic's face was seen
to be almost covered by a large mass of white teleplasm of triangular
prismatic form, the long dimension of the base being horizontal,
the apex about 5 to 6 inches from the nose, while the remainder
hung down to the point of the chin. Projecting horizontally from
the apex of this mass was a proboscis about 12 inches long, such
as has already been described, on the end of which was another
mass of teleplasm of irregular form, and having an average
diameter of about 6 inches. This seemed rather thin and normal
to the axis of the proboscis, and extended farther to the Psychic's
right than to the left.
After this inspection in red light the structure appeared again
in columnar form, moved back and forth in front of the cabinet,
then remained motionless with the upper end approximately at
the level of the top of the cabinet. Walter called for red light,
which disclosed this self-luminous material as a long, lace-like mass
descending from the cloth covering the top of the cabinet, broaden-
ing out into a thick mass of fine folds some 8 inches wide and
curving toward the medium's right where it was draped over the
proboscis, which was now rigid, about one inch in diameter and
12 to 15 inches long. It was as though the whole of the lower
part of the luminous drapery had been caught up and hung on
this curious :r:od-like structure which, in the meantime, had lost
the irregular disk that had been supported, target-like on its end.
UNUSUAL TELEPLASMIC PHENOMENA IN 1926 511
In this instance, as in some other seances, the proboscis had not
been luminous but the teleplasmic drapery had been visible up
to the moment the light was turned on; i.e., the observation was
continuous from darkness into light.
After the light was turned out Walter asserted that the stuff
which looked like veiling was actually solid (i.e., had no holes in
it), and that a photograph would show it as such. He explained
that we saw only a portion of the material.
The luminous mass seemed to be gradually absorbed into Hill's
body and, as Crandon notes, the former had some nausea at the
close of the sitting. ·
The data presented in the subjoined abstract are from
Dudley's notes:
JuLY 23, 1926:9 The box carrying the pails of hot paraffin and
eold water were in place as at the last sitting. Walter spoke soon
.after Margery was reported as in trance, saying, "I didn't expect
you tonight because of the heat.'' Throughout most of the sitting,
which lasted from 9:00 untillO :3a P.M., Hill was reporting touches
on various parts of his body. He stated, repeatedly, that he was
touched on the head by a cold terminal, also on the right arm
and hand, on the knees, thighs and. abdomen, and during the early
part of the seance he noted numerous touches on the upper part
of his abdomen, saying that contact was maintained for appre-
ciable periods. At his request he was touched by a two-pronged
terminal which, as he said, had a rocking motion and seemed to
have prongs more than 2 inches apart. He reported a touch at
the same time that Crandon reported one on his face. The latter
reported a long-continued touch like that of a wet floor-mop
drawn across his face, and another that felt like a contact with
a boxing glove. Duririg several of the periods when Hill was
reporting touches Hyde stated that he had double control of the
Crandon-Margery link and of Crandon's right hand.
While Crandon was out of the circle fixing the phonograph
Hyde controlled Margery's hands and left leg at a time when
Hill reported simultaneous firm touches on his right arm and
wrist.
After Crandon returned to the circle Hill's glasses (suspended
on a ribbon round .his neck) were removed without the ribbon
touching his ears and, after about lf2 minute, the ribbon was hung
round Crondon 's neck and then removed. At the close of the
sitting the glasses were found on the cloth shelf attached to the
paraffin pail.
Richardson placed his left hand on Hill's left knee and reported
that he was touched by a large, round terminal.
9 The sitters, in order: Hill, Richardson, Dudley, Mr. F. Hyde and Crandon.
512 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Walter said that the heat made the teleplasm sticky and asked
us to listen. Everyone except Margery (who was reported as in
trance) heard repeated sounds such as are made when adhesive
plaster is pulled off the roll, or when a new rubber sponge is
squeezed and released. It was agreed that the sound came from
a point above the pails of paraffin and cold water.
During a brief interval of red light a larg·e mass of white
teleplasm was seen covering the whole upper part of the medium's
face.
Near the close of the sitting Hill reported that Walter was
doing something to his shir't, then said that he was touched on
the abdomen. After the red light was turned on following Walter's
good-night, we saw that Hill's shirt was hanging· down outside
his trousers in front, and he said that Walter had pulled it up
and out.
During the s€ance of August 16th, which was supposed to
be one of the standardized sort, a faintly luminous column was
seen.over the table in front of the old cabinet shortly after the
change had been made from the glass cabinet. No further
manifestations of this sort were recorded until the seance of
October 1st, and this again was supposed to be a standard glass-
cabinet sitting.
After the circle10 had reformed in the old cabinet the S.A.
bell-box was presented and engineered by Mr. Hamlin ; then Walter
told Hill to relax. The latter reported a pulling sensation in the
the abdomen, after which a luminous cloud about 3 inches in diam-
eter was seen in front of him, at about the level noted above.
Hill had already stated that he felt a strong vibration of the gluteal
muscles, and had experienced touches on the hand, thigh, abdomen
and, later, on both thighs simultaneously. The light moved about.
rapidly in front of the Psychic, well forward of her knees and
3 to 3lj
2 feet above the floor, in an approximately oval path, then
returned to Hill where it formed a mass about 6 inches in diameter
which, he said, pressed on his abdomen. The luminous structure
becaine a long narrow column in the space between Hill and the
Psychic, rose and fell and swayed about, at times reaching a height
of 3 to 4 feet with the upper end nearly 6 feet above the floor.
The illumination increased, decreased, then increased again; finally,
it disappeared altogether.
Crandon notes that the luminous pins (which had been placed
in Margery's hair at the beginning of the seance) remained visible
and without movement during these manifestations.
10 The arrangement of the sitters during tllis part of the seance was as follows:.
Dudley, McComas, Richardson, Hamlin, Mrs. Richardson and Crandon.
(/
UNUSUAL TELEPL.A.SMIC PHENOMENA. IN 1926 513
McComas asked to be touched upon his bald spot, to which
Walter replied, "I could hatclly touch you anywhere without touch-
ing the bald spot.'' Then McComas put his face on the table and
said, "Now, Walter, slap it." To ·which Walter replied, "'rhis
stuff isn't the slappy, balcl-spotty kind.'' Nevertheless, he touched
and pressed on McComas's head; and McComas described the
terminal as soft and cool.
Aside from the fact that i11 several of these seances the
checks on the nature of the cohtrol are excellent, a very im-
por-tant feature seems to be the fact that the sitters observed
the structures in darkness, then continued to observe these self-
luminous masses in somewhat greater detail in red light, and,
in some instances, carried this observation through to a sub-
sequent pm:iod of darkness; with ample opportunity to observe
the nature of the control dtttihg the red-light periods.
It was noted that follo.yi±ig an exposure to red light the
teleplasm either became lumiilbus or, if it had been luminous be-
fore, the luminosity showed, a marked increase. Walter spoke
of this as a very objectionaB1e feature, from his point of view,
although it would seem to be of considerable evidential value
in the way of limiting the theoretical possibilities of normal
production-if such are to b~ is~fiously entertained.
The color of this matetirt , when self-luminous, appears to
be a blue-green, but when it is Vtll.'y bright it approximates a light
blue which is almost white; y t it seems to have very little
actinic value.
There were numerous dbst3rvations by the various sitters
to the effect that these luttihmhs phenomena are accompanied
by low-temperature effects, btit this does not seem to be in-
variably the case. It seeml:l tlhwise to attempt an explanation
of the nature of these retti~:tritable phenomena in the absence
of more complete data of atl instrumental sort; it is, however,
apparent that they exemplify a phase of the seance-room mani-
festations which is deserving of a most thorough study with a
view to determining both the nature of the energies involved
and the method by which they ate controlled.
CHAPTER XLVI.
Notable Sittings in 1926
Houdini's Last Contact with the Case
While the International Philosophical Congress was holding
its sessions in September, 19·26, at Harvard University, Dr.
Crandon arranged a seance on September 14th in honor of Dr.
Hans Driesch, Professor of Philosophy at the University of
Leipsic, who was attending the Congress. Dr. Driesch, some-
time President of The Society for Psychical Research (London)~
was familiar with.the general history of the Margery medium-
ship and the character of the phenomena obtained. He had
pronounced opinions as to proper methods of control and made
numerous suggestions to improve the glass cabinet control
(described in Chapter XXV) ·which were adopted and are de-
scribed in the report of the sitting. Present at the sitting with
Dr. Driesch were Dr. H. C. McComas, Dr. H. B. Alexander~
Professor of Philosophy at the University of Nebraska, Dr.
H. C. Longwell, Professor of Philosophy at Princeton Univer-
sity, Miss May C. ·walker of London, Mr. E. E. Dudley and
Charles S. Hill. The general conditions of control were set
forth in the following paper signed by these sitters:
,. Boston, Sept. 14, 1926.
At the Margery sitting held this evening at 10 Lime Street the
details of the control were :
(A) Search of Psychic and. clothing with searched kimono by
Miss Walker. Satisfactory to M'iss Walker.
(B) Braided steel picture wire threaded through rubber tubing
tied tightly around each wrist and ankle with several knots, plus
individual knots by McComas, Ahixa:nder and Longwell.
(C) Strips of surgeon's tape fixed longitudinally on each fore-
arm over wire lashing. ·
(D) Surgical tape wound two or three times round each forearm
both above and below wire lashing and over longitudinal strip.
(E ) Blue pencil marks running over both tape and its juncture
mt"h skin on each forearm in several places.
514
NO'rABLE SI'rTINGS IN 1926 515
(F) Cabinet thoroughly searched.
(G) Medium's hands controlled by Miss Walker who had been
in charge of medium during search of cabinet.
(H) Medium with hands controlled by Miss Walker brought
in and seated in cabinet.
(I) Ankles and wrists lashed into screw bolts of cabinet hy
McComas, Alexander and Longwell.
(J) Head controlled by padlocked dog-collar fastened to rear
of cabinet; locked by Alexander.
(K) At conclusion fastenings cut and reported as intact and in
original condition.
(L) Surgical tapes removed after examination disclosed they
were intact and the junction of pencil marks over junction of tape
and skin exactly as originally drawn.
(M) No traces of any tampering with any control feature.
H. C. McCoMAS
H. C. LoNGWELL
H. B. ALEXANDER
MAY C. WALKER
CHARLES S. HILL
E. E. DUDLEY
Two records of the sitting were made, one by Crando11 and
one by Dudley. They are abstracted as follows:
DR. CRANDON's REPORT.
The Psychic was lashed in the g·lass cabinet. The voice ma 'hine
was tried out by all the strangers before the sitting, and all failed
to be able to talk or whistle while using it. The Psychie was
searched and dressed by Miss Walker and all the lashings were
by the strangers.
Walter came through promptly and greeted all the strangers.
In the dark, Alexander picked out four wooden letters with t lmmb
and forefinger, and put them in the big basket at the Psychic's right,
front. Walter levitated this basket, named the letters and I hrew
each one out as he named it, and all cognitions were correct. Per-
sonal objects were now put in the basket and all were iden tified
correctly. One of them was called ''calling card'' which W alter
immediately changed to "visiting card." The small basket was
now put in the big basket and Walter levitated the combination as
high as five feet in the cabinet and then out into the very ccmte~·
of the circle fully thirty inches in front of the cabinet fron t. He
also touched with the basket the hands of Alexander and Longwell
and then withdrew the baskets back into the cabinet. He next had
a small luminous basket put on the shelf by Alexander and then
Walter rolled it freely in red light; next this was repeated with
Alexander passing his arm freely between the Psychic aml the
516 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
rolling basket; next this experiment was repeated feeling' above,
around and below the basket and finding no normal explanation,
The Psychic's head was now released and she slowly came out
of trance. The voice machine was now put into action by Alexander
who took care of all the critical actions. It was blown up by the
Psychic and Walter proceeded to whistle and talk freely and to
recite poetry. On a second trial Walter indulged in a conversation
with Longwell lasting about thirty seconds while the Psychic main-
tained the voice machine in disequilibrium.
'l'he Psychic was now released from the lashings by the same
persons who had made them, all lashings and controls inspected
by all visitors and all agreed that they were as they had been at
the beginning.
rrhe circle now moved to the old cabinet. Here Walter rang
the bell-box intermittently while it was passed about from hand
to hand to all sitters, and several o£ them turned around while
holding it. While ringing again in red light examination of the
box was made in the same period of red light, and also under white
flash light, with negative findings. When the flapper was restored
to its normal position, still during the same period of reel light,
it did not resume its ringing, showing that Walter's energy had
been removed.
rrhen followed a period o£ questions and answers between sitters
and Walter. One of the sitters seemed to £eel that Walter jested
too much and we got the impression that Walter's extremely good
nature was somewhat dampened by the questions o£ a highly tech-
nical philosophic character concerning the time conoept which were
put to him.
DunLEY's REPORT.
The circle for the glass-cabinet portion o£ the seance, reading
fi·om Margery's left, was composed o£ Alexander, Longwell, Cran-
don, McComas, Miss May Walker, Hill. Dudley sat behind the
circle between McComas and Miss Walker. The wooden letters
identified by Walter were Y, Z, U, and Q. Miss Walker asked
Walter for a "W," whereupon the latter explained that there
wasn't one in the basket and he (Walter ) didn't select them.
When the basket was passed £or articles to be cognized, and had
been put in the cabinet, Walter audibly wondered what Dudley
had put in (he had not contributed this evening) ; then, referring
to an article the latter had put in at a recent sitting, said : "Wasn 't
that a gauge~,, Dudley: ''Yes.'' · Walter: ''A screw gauge 1''
Dudley: "No. Do you want it again~" Walter: "No, I don't,
but I'll get it yet!" (This was a most interesting experiment in
connection with Walter's ability to recognize small tools which he
might have seen or handled but which Margery would not be likely
to recognize. He ·entered into the game with great enthusiasm and,
as \Vill be shown in the next seance, made a direct hit on an unusual
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 ;)17
tool.) Walter identified a fountain pen, ·calling card, key, ancl a
ticket. Someone asked (of the ticket) : ''Where to ~ ' ' vValtcr :
"Ticket to nowhere. " McComas, trying to trip Walter on the
account of a previous encounter, asked, "Are you going to hi t me
on the head again ~" Walter : "I didn't hit you on the ]wad.
That wasn't the place." McComas then spoke of Walter ha,.ing
hit Wood on the head after having said that he was going to tmtch
wood, to which the latter replied: · ''I didn't hit Wood, that was
Dunlap. . . ."
In connection with the levitations of the baskets I find a slight
addition in my record in that, after the levitation, the small, ]umi-
nous basket was dropped in the back of the cabinet, and Vl nlter
asked McComas to go in and get it. The latter found this imposs ible
and suggested Longwell in his place (for reasons of lateral disp1ace-
ment ), but Walter countered with the suggestion that McComas
stand up and put his hand behind Psychic's right side, behincl her
head. McComas did so, and while feeling around in this locil lity,
reported that he heard Walter's voice coming from behind and
to the right of Mru.'gery. McComas did not find .anything and,
withdrawing slightly, asked WaltP.r what it was that he was sup-
posed to find. Walter replied : '' 'l'he big basket.'' McComas ngain
felt around in the cabinet and was again unsuccessful; so Waiter
told him that the basket was behind the chair, near the side or the
cabinet. On the third attempt, just as McComas's hand to11 'heel
the basket (as he said) it fell to the floor of the cabinet, ca 11 ·ing
him to remark, ''It must have been balanced there.'' Wn Iter:
"There is nothing to balance it on. I was holding it!" (It is true
that there was no projection which would serve as a suitable up-
port.) McComas then said that he had checked the position of
Psychic's hands, and had heard a voice in the cabinet whicl1 was
not hers.
After the V-C-0 test, and resumption of the sitting in tht~ old
cabinet the circle was formed as follows: Margery, Hill, McComas,
Alexander, Longwell, Miss \Valker, and Crandon. Dudley ou t ide,
behind Longwell. The writer finds that his record of the L
apes
applied over the wire ties of the wrists, shows that in additi on to
the longitudinal tapes, circumferential bands were added abow and
below the wire ties, thus holding the latter securely in place.
The second sitting for members of the Philosophical Con-
gress was held on September l1
5th, primarily for Dr. Dri sch,
with Dr. H. A. Overstreet (Professor of Philosophy j 11 the
College of the City of New York), who came with McComas,
and Dr. Hyde (a lady -vvho is Professor of Psychology j 1
1. the
University of Nebraska) as another new sitter. Witl 1 Dr.
518' MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Driesch came Dr. Helmuth von Glasenapp (Professor of San-
skrit, University of Berlin). ·
Margery and her clothing were searched by Miss Walker
and Dr. Hyde, before and after the seance, with negative results.·
The wire ties were applied under the supervision of Miss Hyde,
Miss Walker, and Drs. Driesch, Overstreet, von Glasenapp, and
McComas. An additional feature of control is noted in the
following report by Crandon.
The first part of the sitting, held in the glass cabinet, was
so arranged that the sitters formed two rows, the inner circle
comprising Margery, Driesch, Miss Hyde, Crandon, Miss
Walker, von Glasenapp, and Overstreet. Behind them were
Richardson, McComas, Hill, Dudley and Mrs. Richardson,
maintaining tactual control except as to the right and left hands
of Dr. and M'l's. Richardson, respectively, and well outside the
zone of the phenomena. From Crandon's report we find that:
I. After the wire lashings were put on the wrists they were
fastened, in addition, to the wrists by surgeon's tape, and blue
pencil marks were made in all directions crossing from tape to skin
and making it impossible to remove the control and restore it to
the same place.
II. On the suggestion of Driesch and in imitation of the tech-
nique used by Schrenck-Notzing, a large number of pins with
luminous heads were put along the principal lines of the Psychic's
garment, thus showing the outline of her body at all times. All
the controls were applied and fastened by the strangers and they
all agreed that the Psychic's conscious. or unconscious performance
of the physical phenomena was ruled out before we started.
Walter came through promptly and entertained us all with face-
tious remarks concerning the disappointment of certain pious sitter11
when they learned that there are no streets of gold, no wings, ·and·
no harps on the other side; and he made a few general jokes con-
cerning Alexander, who sat last night. The following phenomena
then appeared :
(1) Corre.ct cognition of wooden letters picked out in the dark
by Driesch with thumb and forefinger, and put in the basket on
the floor at the Psychic's right front. Telepathy thus excluded.
(2) Levitation of small luminous basket within big basket aS'
high as five feet, well above the Psychic's head and then out at least
thirty inches in front of the front of the cabinet.
(3) Cognition of person~! objects .put in the basket by the
sitters.
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 519
(4) Rolling of the luminous small basket on the shelf in feont
of the Psychic in good reel light. This was repeated while Dri csch
waved his hand between the Psychic and the rolling basket.
(5) The Voice-Cut-Out machine was set up and after examina-
tion by Driesch it was put by him into the Psychic's mouth. The
lights were then put out and Crandon's hands and mouth were put
in custody of Miss Hyde. Overstreet at the same time, standing, put
his hand near the open top of the U-tube, thus preventing an yone
putting his hand clown on it. The Psychic then blew up the l umi~
nous floats and Walter talked and whiStled freely, pronouncing
all kinds of hard syllables and whistling a tune as requested. 'l'est
lasted thirty seconds.
(6) 'l'he Psychic was now released from lashings; they hn ving
been declared by those who applied them as being in the stale in
which they were at the beginning.
(7) The circle now moved to the old cabin-et and Walter rang
the bell-box while Overstreet turned a complete circle holding it in
his hand; next this was repeated and the box was passed through
the hands of five different sitters, two of whom turned a complete
circle while it was being done.
(8) At the sug·gestion of Driesch, double control was made,
namely, Miss Hyde held Crandon's two hands and the Psychie's
right hand; Overstreet held Hill's hands and the Psychic 's left
hand. Then Walter, under those conditions, picked one of the
luminous pins out of the Psychic's robe and we could all sre it
sailing through the air and in all kinds of circles, and it fi nally
was stuck into the top of the bell-box.
(9) This experim-ent was now repeated beautifully.
(10) The doughnut was now levitated and we could all see
Walter's terminal across it or sticking tm:ough the hole. T
'his
appeared again and ag·ain under conditions of double control as
described above.
(11) The doughnut was now put on top of the bell-box. Dricsch
put his nose in the doughnut .and Walter, under conditions of
double control, pressed on the back of Driesch's head and made
the bell ring.
(12) 'rhis was repeated for Miss Hyde.
(13) This was repeated for von Glasenapp.
(14) There was some talk and discussion with Walter and the
sitting closed.
The room was searched before the sitting by all sitters wh(J so
desired. Miss Walker did this with some thoroughness.
At one stage with a luminous pin Walter spelled his name out
in writing in the air.
Dudley made a supplementary report of this sitting which
is abstracted as follows:
520 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
Walter identified the following wooden letters: Q, X, D, Z, in
the above order. In cognizing the p·ersonal articles 'vhich were
placed in the basket he referred humorously to ''a handkerchief
about the size of a table-cloth,'' and then proceeded with other
articles, saying: ''I've got everything from soup to nuts.'' One
article which he attributed to me (correctly) he described as a
gauge. This was correct, and he added, ''A wire gauge 1'' Dudley:
"No." Walter: "A screw gauge 1" D.: "Not exactly." Walter:
"A thread gauge ?" D: "Yes." Walter: "Well, you might call
it a screw gauge.'' Dudley assented to this since some mechanics
do use that term. It was, in fact, a folding gauge for scr ew
threads, and under tactual examination could hardly be identified
at all without unfolding and separating the individual elements
sufficiently to note the teeth and the fact that they diff·er in number
and size on each of the many leaves. When Walter came across
a picture frame he refused to carry tb.e experiment further, saying
that the glass was loose and he was afraid of injuring the tele-
plasm. During the levitation of the two baskets (one inside the
other) the smaller basket was removed from the larger while both
were well up in the cabinet, as judged by sounds and the move-
ment of the luminous bands on the handle of the small er one;
the latter was then levitated freely, and well out in front of the
cabinet. Referring to an incident of the previous evening, when
a sitter had remarked that Walter had mind but no intelligence,
Walter said : '' Overstreet, if you had been here the other night
you v;rould have laughed in the vvrong place and spoiled it all!''
Overstreet admitted that this might have happened.
The V-C-0 was especially successful, and Driesch checked the
apparatus before and after the test. 'l'he Psychic was then released
by Dr. Hyde, who carefully checked all the controls.
In connection with paragraph (8) of the above report, Hill
specified the position from wbich ·w alter should remove the
luminous pin: from the breast of Margery's bath robe. The
operation was performed with great deliberation.
In addition to the above experiments, the scales were put on
the table near the close of the sitting, were examined in white
light and loaded 1 :4, by Overstreet. In a subsequent period of
white light they balanced kinetically, and again, after a brief
period of darkness, continued to balance while Overstreet lifted
them from the table and turned toward the east, with white
flash light turned on them.
The seance closed at 10:55 P.M ., having lasted 1Vz hours.
NO'l'ABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 21
Dr. McComas was deeply imptessed with the phenomena
occurring under such strict control, and remained in Boston
over the week-end to undertake a venture with Houdini, who
was appearing at a local Boston theater. Professor Overstreet
also remained to take part in what McComas thought mi ght
be a definitive test for the mediumship. Accompanied by Dr.
E. W . Brown, McComas approached Houdini on September J7th
with a challenge to produce under identical conditions of ('O
n-
trol similar phenomena to those that had been obtained at the
sitting for the professors. Houdini readily agreed. Immudi-
ately after the conference the following ex parte memorancl urn
was prepared :
Sept. 17, 192G.
Memorandum of conference with Houdini at his room in the
Ma.j estic Theater.
(1) Houdini stated that he could, and would be delighted to
repeat the "Margery" phenomena for a group of gentlemc11 to
be selected by Dr. McComas of Princeton.
(2) He urged that the apparatus used be the same as that ttsed
by "Margery," and to this Dr. McComas and Dr. Brown agTt'ed.
(3) Houdini suggested that the same committee wire "J\far-
gery" into the cabinet that later wires him, and to this Dr. Brown
and Dr. McComas agreed.
(Signed) H. C. McCol\L\s.
E . w. BROWN .
Inspired with a great enthusiasm to submit Margery 1o a
control that would not only be so efficient and rigorous a s to
exclude every possible chance for the fraudulent product ton
. of phenomena, but serve also to test the powers of Houdi11 i to
produce like phenomena under like conditions, Dr. Mc-Comas,
assisted by Dr. Overstreet, began preparations for a s6<1 !lce
to be held on Saturday evening, September 18th. It was the
frankly expressed belief of McComas that under the controls
that had been devised no normal production of phenomena was
possible even by so great a magi.cian as Houdini, and tl1at
psychic research under the astute leadership of McComas was
about to score a notable victory over its arch-enemy. Margury
cooperated gladly and agreed to submit to any measmc of
control that was desired, so long as it left her able to bren the
522 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
and physically unharmed. A stenographer was obtained to make
the narrative record as complete as possible and the transcribed
account was duly signed by all the sitters. Every form of
appropriate control that experience or ingenuity could suggest
was applied, including the luminous pins that Dr. Driesch con-
sidered so important, but nevertheless a brilliant program of
phenomena followed that left the sitters completely at a loss
· for any explanation other than a super-normal one. The steno-
graphic record of this outstanding seance is as follows:
The medium was searched and dressed in bloomers. Mrs. Rich-
ardson applied two-inch-wide surgical adhesive bands around her
waist, the band covering the top of her bloomers and the skin above
Search of the
Medi~~n~
the bloomers, and an adhesive band around each
leg of the bloomer in the same manner. The
wrapper was searched and a pair of shoes, not her
own, were put on her feet. Mrs. Richardson
made blue pencil, continuous lines, from the adhesive bands to her
skin, on legs and abdomen. Mrs. Richardson also attached surgical
tape to the tops of the stockings and the skin and made similar
continuous blue pencil marks. All of this was inspected by
McComas and Overstreet.
All members of circle removed coats and vests in library and
were thoroughly searched by McComas and Overstreet, this search
including collars and neckties. These gentleme:n also made a com-
plete search of each other. Upon completion of the search, all sitters
joined hands and proceeded under this hand control, from the
library to the rear room on top floor.
Overstreet applied a strip of the same width surgical adhesive
tape over the slipper and cross-wise around the left ankle of the
medium, joining the same under the instep of the slipper and then
in various places covering the joint between the top of the slipper .
and the stockings. Blue pencil marks in diverse directions were
made. The same course was pursued in regard to surgical tape and
pencil markings on the right foot by McComas.
McCornas dictating: Dudley tied a No. 2 picture cord around
Margery's right ankle, making· first a square knot and then a surgi-
cal knot, leaving, when the limb was relaxed, only sufficient margin
for the insertion of the tip of finger. The same procedure, exactly,
was carried on with the left ankle. Dudley tied the same grade of
picture cord on Margery's right wrist with first a square knot and
then a surgical knot, leaving as a margin, width for the insertion
of a finger tip. Same procedure was carried out with the left wrist.
McComas went over the wiring of the bell-box, examined it,
and locked it.
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 523
Overstreet inserted luminous pins in the sleeves and body nf the
robe of lVIargery and also examined the surgical fastenings on the
bloomers. lVIcComas added luminous pins to both feet.
Dudley bound the wires which controlled the wrists with .~urgi­
cal tape in a figure eight, completely covering the wrist baml ; and
lVIcComas made numerous blue-pencil lines from the tape 1o the
wrist.
Overstreet, Dudley and lVIcComas carefully examined thr cab-
inet before the P sychic was led in.
Dudley dictating: 'fhe securing of the right hand in the c<~ binet
was done by passing one of the free ends of the picture wire thI"O
ugh
the eye-bolt, the other free end being passed through fro lll the
opposite dir-
ection, the two crossed over the eye-bolt, tied with a
square knot, then with a surgical knot in such manner as to aIlow a
distance of less than three-quarters of an inch between the knot
and the eye-bolt. In addition, a standard lead seal was passed
over the two free ends, slipped close to the eye-bolt, and comp l"essed
with a pair of pliers.
The right foot was secured to the eye-bolt in the floor by pass-
ing the free ends of the picture wire through the eye-bo11 and
tying and sealing in exactly the same manner as for the right
hand. 'I'he left foot was secured in exactly the same manner. The
distance from the knot to the eye-bolt in the floor is 3% inches
for the right foot and four inches for the left.
The left band was secured to the eye-bolt on the outsir'l.e of
cabinet in exactly the same manner as was the right hand, scaled,
and the distance from the knot over the ·wrist to the eye-bolt meas-
ured as less than one inch.
Overstr-
eet attached collar to the Psychic, the distance from
eye-bolt to lock being 35~ inches. 111.cCmnas didcding: The I ngth
of the cord from the collar to its attachment at rear of cabi net is
351j,1 inches.
Surgeon's plaster was passed round and round the lowcsLtw.o
inches of the thighs, around the knees and down the legs two i Jtehes,
thus binding the knees tightly together. Blue pencil crossr;l the
line from plaster to skin above and below.
The door to seance room was locked and key left in the door.
McComas dictating: A luminous pin was inserted in sm gical
tape round each wrist. I carefully explored Margery 's mouth
with my forefinger, going over upper and lower gums.
Ove?·st1·eet dictating: I examined her ears and hair.
During entire search and lashing, the Psychic's skin ·w:1 ~ in a
normal condition and her limbs and body relaxed.
9 :45 P.M. lVIusic started.
9:49 P.M. Seance began. Order of circle from the Ps.1·chic's
left: Overstreet, Mrs. Richardson, Crandon, Hill, l~ich ll l"dson,
McComas. Second circle: [E. W.] Brown, Smith, Dudley. 'C
here
524 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
are two concentric segments of circle thus, and each sitter's left
leg is in front of his neighbor's right leg. Overstreet's right leg
and hand are in contact vvith Mrs. Richardson. McComas' four
limbs are coiltrolled by Richardson.
Overstreet in complete darkness picks out any four letters of
wood from box, puts them in the tall basket and puts the basket in
Psychic's right front of cabinet. He picks the
E xperiment 1 letters with thumb and forefing-er so that he is not
able to jdentify any letter.
Walter spoke in about a minute and a quarter after the opening
of the sitting, and whistled.
The basket is heard to crackle and hit the side of the cabinet
and Walter says, "There's an 'E' for you, Overstreet," and Over-
street picks up the letter and confirms it as "E." Walter says,
"Here's an 'X' for McComas,'·' and throws it out of the cabinet.
McComas found the "X" on the floor behind his feet after sitting.
Walter says, "Here's an 'N,' come right in and find 'it at the
Psychic's left.'' Overstreet confirms the '' N.''
The basket is heard hitting the side of the cabinet.
Psychic went into trance within two minutes of the beginning
of the seanc-e and snores are heard from time to time.
10 :01 P .M. Violent crackling noise from the region of th-e
basket.
10 :02 P.M. Basket thrown out and landed on the floor in
front of the cabinet. End of Experiment 1.
Overstreet has put some personal object, known only to him,
into the basket, put the basket into the Psychic's right front of
cabinet and basket rattles at once. Walter's con-
Experiment 2 versation goes on continuously. The basket rattles
for about four minutes, Walter talking all the
while; then the basket is throvvn out and Walter says, "Overstreet
put some of his clothes in, his necktie.'' Overstreet confirms this.
End of Experiment 2.
At this point red light is turned on. McComas examines the
right hand control. Overstr·eet examines the Psychic's mouth, and
left hand control. The shelf is put into the cabinet by Crandon,
in front of the Psychic. Overstreet now puts luminous basket,
lying on its side, on the shelf, midway between front and back
edges of shelf. Just before this, white flash was flashed through
the cabinet in particular reference to the Psychic's face. Nothing
was observed. The shelf was moved and replaced by Overstre-et
in red light, and he looked at the Psychic's mouth at the same time.
The luminous basket began to roll on the shelf. Walter called
for red light. The basket rolled without falling. While it was
rolling, in red light, Overstreet put his hand and
E xpe1'iment 3 forearm between the Psychic and the rolling basket,
above and .below the shelf. The basket now was
rolled off the shelf in darkness. While th-e basket was rolling,
Walter was whistling and talking.
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926
10 :12 P .M. Now the shelf begins to shake and rattle. \\'c
------
was whistling all the while the shelf was rattling. Overstrerl and
McComas each put his hand on the Psychic's mouth and l"ouncl
nothing. In white light, McComas and Overstreet felt for a pt'riod
of twenty seconds at all quarters of the Psychic, searching fol" rods
and apparatus and found nothing. The luminous basket is now
placed on the floor of the cabinet, to the Psychic's right front . and
the shelf is removed by Overstreet. Walter now told Overstrr'et to
put the small basket into the big basket and the luminous doup:hnut
into the little basket, and the whole combination in the Psyl" hie's
right front of cabin€t. This was clone.
While Walter whistled an accompaniment to the victroln , the
luminous basket was heard to crackle and was seen to rise io the
region of the Psychic's lap. Violent motion and
Expe1·iment 4 crashing of baskets is heard. Continuous talie by
Walter about his baskets. The doughnut is now
seen to be rising out of the bottom of the small basket and pn;..ents
itself vertically. The small basket is now levitating, movin g· be-
tween the doughnut and the Psychic. The doughnut now follo'' s it.
The basket goes up to the h€ight of the Psychic's head. The dough-
nut moves vertically and not in tune with the basket. Thr two
are now in the air at the level of the ·Psychic's head. The b< l. ket
went over her head and fell, leaving the doughnut floatin g in
front of the Psychic, at the lev€1 of her head. .At this junc1 ure,
by direction of Walter, Overstreet put his hand over the Psychi e's
mouth, while t4e doughnut remained vertically in the air so that
he could see it. The basket and the doughnut were two feet a part
during their simultaneous levitation and they were not in line with
each other. The cloug·hnut at the level of the Psychic's head, 1·ight
front of cabinet, is rotating. It rotates as if held on a term inal
as a wheel on an axis. Walter calls attention to this fact. Mc-
Comas can see the doughnut but the other sitters cannot. In other
words, Walter shows the bright side of the doughnut and then the
dark side. Under instructions of Walter, McComas puts his l1 and
in contact with the Psychic's hand out through the right hole.
Overstreet does the same on the left and also puts his other han cl on
the Psychic's mouth, the doughnut remaining in the air, visib lt' to
all, at the level of the Psychic's head. Walter is whistling. 'rhe
doughnut moves all the time.
Let it be noted again that while Overstreet's hand was over the
Psychic's mouth, the doughnut ·was up, in motion, and W alter was
whistling or talking.
Overstreet now, in white light, went in after the basket, to get
it out of the cabinet. .At this time all sitters were able to sec th€
Psychic completely.
Walter now told Overstreet to put luminous basket m big
basket. Under instructions, Overstreet put the shelf in, in red
526 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
light, and then put the luminous basket on the shelf on its side.
Walter then ordered it changed to standing up.
Walter tells that the shelf vvas in unevenly and it was so found
and corrected. It, meaning the basket, was thrown on the floor.
Overstreet replaced it.
Walter said, "This will be a long sitting. McComas got you
into it, now let him get you out of it.''
The basket is now seen to be between the Psychic's chair and the
east side of the cabinet. 'l'he basket now fell to the floor in front of
the cabinet and Walter said, "Don't touch it. " Walter ordered the
shelf removed by Overstreet. The basket now moves on the floor,
in the center of the circle, outside the cabinet.
10 :46 P.l\1. Cold air is felt coming from the cabinet by at least
three sitters. The breeze is now felt by all but two of the sitters.
Violent raps are heard on the west side of the cabinet, made by
the basket.
10 :49 P.l\1.
McComas and
Walter's instructions; everyone left the room but
Overstreet. Roll call was taken, Richardson guard-
ing the doorwa.y. The glass door of cabinet was
Expm·iment 5 closed and it was locked by Overstreet but before
it was closed Overstreet put his hand on the Psy-
chic's mouth. Roll call was taken again' and everybody was out
but Overstreet and McComas.
The basket is knocking against the front of the cabinet, above
the Psychic's bead, about 4lj
2 feet from the floor (about the height
of my chest) . Walter whistles while this
Ove1·st?'eet dictating levitation is going on. -The basket is being
levitated against the left side of the cabinet,
facing· forward on the side of the Psychic and to the front, Walter
still whistling. Now the basket is being thrown down. 'l'he door
was opened and the Psychic was observed under white flashlight
and experiment closed. The basket is on the floor of the east
side of the cabinet. It started this experiment on the west side
of the cabinet. 'l'his last note applies to the big basket and now
the big basket is thrown out of the cabinet from the west side.
The voice machine was put out on the table in front of the
Psychic. The floats were activated by white light. The tube was.
examined and blown through by Overstreet and
Expe,riment 6 the apparatus was put in the Psychic's mouth by
him, her mouth being· free from everything as.
observed by all sitters to the best of their ability.
The collar was now removed from the Psychic by Overstreet
and she has come out of trance. Overstreet takes charge of Cran-
don's two hands and his mouth. Everyone's mouth is controlled
by his neighbor. McComas controlled open end of U-tube. The
Psychic now blew up the voice machine to a difference of level of
about ten inches and Walter talked, recited poetry, whistled, pro-
nounced difficult words, repeated any word that the sitters asked.
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 527
Then Walter added, "Notice that the floats are slowly coming to
level, which could not be done if the pipe was blocked. The Kid is
leaking." The experiment lasted about thirty-two seconds, and at
the end of it, in both white and red light, the Psychic seemed to
have apparently nothing in the mouth and she was examined and
searched by Mrs. Richardson. .
The lashings were now cut by McComas and were observed by
all sitters to be as they were at the beginning. All pencil marks
were observed to be as originally put on.
11:17 P.M. 'l'he circle now moved to the old cabinet. Over·
street was on the left and McComas on the right of the Psychic.
Trance came on at once. 'fhe circle was made but with no foot
control.
11 :20 P.M. 'l'he bell rang in the dark. 'l'here was no movement
of the luminous pins on the Psychic's body or arms. Hanel control
was reported as complete, as was also hand control of Crandon.
11 :30 P.M. Brown, in the red light, picked up the bell-box,
walked three feet away from the table, turned 360° and the box
rang intermittently several times as he was doing it. It was ringing
intermittently in white light.
Overstreet, in the red light, picked the box up, walked over to
the bookcase; the flap quivered, but no ringing came. H e brought it
back. Half a minute later, in red light, he picked up the box and
it rang intermittently as he walked to books, nine feet from the
Psychic, turned 360°, walked back to circle, handed the box to
Smith, who handed it to Dudley, who handed it to Brown, who
handed it to Richardson, and while it was ringing still, the white
flashlight was played upon it ringing in Richardson's hands. Rich-
ardson now put it on the table. Nothing abnormal or supernormal
was found under the flap and the flap was restored. 'l'he bell did
not ring. This ringing all took place in red light, beginning and
ending in the same period of reel light.
McComas removed the bell-box. Brown put the scales on the
table and they were seen to balance evenly. All in red light. Over-
street took charge of the checkers used as weights. Walter said
his forces were getting low. H e was far from home.
Sitting ended at 11 :40 P.M.
Hill unlocked the door.
The wiring on both ankles was found to be intact and the
taping under instep of shoes and over ankle also intact, with mark-
ings as they were originally placed on the
ll!lcComas dictating same. This also applies to both wrists.
Overstreet and McComas both observed
the taping was on the waist line of the Psychic's bloomers and also
the tapes at the extremities of the bloomer legs and the limbs, and
everything was as originally arranged. The taping above and be-
low the knees was intact. The Psychic resumed her own shoes
and the borrowed shoes were searched and found to contain nothing.
528 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The sides and back of cabinet were examined by Overstreet
and McComas and seals were found intact. · The interior of the
cabinet was also searched by McComas and Overstreet in the pres-
ence of Dudley, disclosing nothing of a suspicious nature.
H. C. McCoMAS,
H. A. OVERSTREET,
E. w. BROWN,
CHARLES s. HILL,
M. w. RICHARDSON,
E. E . DUDLEY,
J. L. RICHARDSON,
L. R. G. CRANDON.
Following the seance, opinion among the sitters was almost
unanimous that Houdini would not live up to his promise as
reported by McComas, but would in some way escape from a
test that all believed would, if carried out,· be fatal to his pre-
tensions. McComas alone insisted that his understanding with
Houdini was so clear and explicit that it could not be evaded.
On Sunday morning, however, McComas turned up at Lime
Sheet with the following letter from Houdini which left him
quite nonplussed, because it contained suggestions of procedure
not previously discussed by him and was quite plainly the begin-
ning of an escape.
Dear Dr. McComas:
Address until Sept 25th
Majestic Theatre, Boston.
Sept. 18th, 1926.
Confirming our conversation last night, so there is no misun-
derstanding, I will be delighted to sit in at a seance of "Margery's"
but have been repeatedly told that my absence was preferable to
my presence.
In view of the circumstances of which you told me-that the
Crandons are willing for me to test the medium or sit in at a
seance and are willing for me to test their so-called phenomena
or illusions, will do so gladly. As you may not know the history
of the case, I was bitterly attacked when I said that in my presence
Mrs. Crandon presented nothing to prove she possessed any psychic
power.
At this time I would ask that I be permitted to take three or
four college professors with me. To be fair to the medium, she
can do her stuff in my presence and I will go right in and duplicate
them, or if you wish, I will stop her from doing anything by having
her controlled properly. Or I will go into the seance room, make
notes of the tests ·and the next day prevent her from doing any-
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 529.
thing (by keeping her under proper control) and promise faith-
fully not to injure her in any ·way.
If this is your desire and if you get me the same apparatus,
wires and things she uses or has used, the exact lengths and measure-
ments, I will guarantee to duplicate everything she does under the
the same conditions, not stricter conditions, but the same.
One thing I would like to call your attention to-mal-observa-
tion. You might think ·she does certain things in a certain way
and describe it to me, whereas it will be entirely different before
my eyes. So I ask that everything be measured. Every test care-
fully spoken over before I am secured so I can prove without a
shadow of a doubt that her tests are performed this way, because
the lady is subtle and changes her methods like any dexterous
sleight-of-hand performer or any medium I have examined. Also
give me ample time to make all arrangements during my stay
in Boston.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) HouDINI.
P.S.-As I am in town all day Sunday and have no evening per-
formance that will give us all of the time we want for any tests
or experiments. It must be borne in mind that secret parapher-
nalia may have to be contrived to perform some of the tests. If so,
I will explain these tests until I have time to get same made.
Upon reading Houdini's letter Crandon wrote the following
letter to McComas and received from him the following reply:
Sunday Morning, Sept. 19, 1926.
Dear Dr. McComas:
You were given 1
an opportunity last night to witness Margery's
phenomena under your own conditions and control and before your
own committee.
The letter from Mr. Houdini to you, dated Sept. 18th, which
is before me, purporting to set forth his understanding of an
arrangement for a seance with Margery, at which he should be
present, and following which he undertakes to reproduce phe-
nomena, etc., does not confirm in any respect our understanding'
of your proposal to us which was that you would make a record
of last night's seance, describing the conditions of control, etc.,
phenomena observed, etc., subm_
it a ·copy of the record to Houdini
by noon today and that he would this afternoon or evening, undei·
the same conditions, in our seance room, in the pTesence of his
own committee and yours reproduce the phenomena described in
your record. For this purpose I was glad to admit him and his
associates to our seance room, and I am of course, ready to go
through with the arrangement I made with you either today or at
an early date. Yours very truly, .
(Signed) L. R. G. CRANDON.
530 M.ARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Dear Dr. Crandon:
Sept. 19th, 1926.
Your letter of· this morning correctly states the arrangement
which I made with you in regard to Mr. Houdini and I am sure \
that despite his letter of the 18th, which, as you point out to me,
seems to contradict it, there will be no misunderstanding between
him and me, as to what I understood the arrangement to be.
I will take the matter up with him at ·once and communicate
with you further.
Sincerely,
(Signed) H. C. McCoMAS.
Armed with these two letters McComas and Overstreet went
to Houdini's hotel and in a conference which lasted some two
hours or more, explained to him fully and in minute detail the
nature and extent of the control to which Margery had submitted
on the previous evening, and the phenomena that had, never-
theless, occurred. Houdini then promptly declined to proceed
further with the plan, and the somewhat naive ambition of
McComas to bring Houdini to book and at the same time estab-
lish the super-normal character of the Margery phenomena,
went for naught.
Houdini had escaped from the academic net that had been
set for him in all sincerity by the professor, but his wistful
longing to enter again into the house of people whom he had
publicly attacked and misrepresented so violently quite over-
came him, and he angled for the privilege of once more attending
further seances, as appears from the following letter of
Crandon:
Mr. Harry Houdini
Majestic Theatre
Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir:
Sept. 23, 1926.
I am this morning in receipt of a registered letter from you
dated Sept. 20, 1926, return receipt requested, reading as follows:
"In view of the many rumors, some not so complimentary
to me, have heard that you are perfectly willing for me to
attend a number of seances during my stay here in Boston.
.Am inquiring whether this is the truth as I hear a great
many things that may be distorted. If you would permit me
to come to the seances, I would be w~ry glad to do so, after
any of my performances this week.''
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 531
In answer I beg to reply as follows: On Sept. 17, 1926, Dr.
Henry C. McComas of Princeton conferred with you, which con-
.ference resulted in an interchange of three letters on Sept. 17,
-18 and 19. Dr. McComas desired to have you attempt to duplicate
the Lime St. phenomena under the same conditions. You, there-
upon, proposed that Dr. McComas and Dr. Overstreet of the College
of the City of New York, in whose integrity you expressed perfect
confidence, should hold a sitting with- ''Margery'' on Saturday
evening Sept. 18 under whatever conditions of control they deemed
satisfactory. That by noon Sunday, Sept. 19, they should acquaint
you in detail with the happenings at the seance and give you a
complete description of the control, whereupon, you would on the
evening of Sunday, Sept. 19, at No. 10 Lime St., Boston, enter
the glass cabinet, submit to the same conditions of control, and
duplicate the phenomena in every detail. That proposition from
you was adopted. The seance was held on Saturday, Sept. 18
under the strictest conditions of control ever applied to any medium,
in spite of which the physical phenomena were positively startling.
Drs. McComas and Overstreet conveyed a complete oral report
of the entire sitting with its controls to you at the Adams House
at the time set by you. After a protracted delay you appeared
at the Hotel and received their report. When you learned the
nature and completeness of the control not only· of the medium
but of every person present, you flatly refused to make the attempt.
I am informed by Dr. McComas that you stated that you could
not suggest any more -effective control than was employed at that
sitting and admitted your inability to duplicate the phenomena
under similar conditions without the assistance of a confederate.
However, startling phenomena took place in a searched and locked
glass cabinet with every person save Drs. McComas and Overstreet
excluded from the seance room. ·
Unless you continue your custom of attacking the integrity
.of every one whose views do not coincide with your own, you
will hardly venture to claim that either of these· learned observers
were confederates.
Since, in spite of every argument, you, of your own volition,
refused to carry out your own proposal, the matter is at an ·end.
In as much as the only value which could possibly be attached
to your presence at Lime Street would be because it would afford
some amusement to watch your attempts to duplicate these phe-
nomena, and since this you very wisely decline to do, there seems
no other compelling reason for your coming again to Lime Street.
You will please recall that we already have in our file three dif-
ferent records of sittings where psychic phenomena occurred each
of which records bears your original autograph_ signature of ap-
proval. These are sufficient.
Very truly yours,
L. R. G. CRANDON, M.D.
532 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
To this letter Houdini replied as follows: ·
Special Delivery
Registered, return
receipt requested.
Dr. L. R. G. Crandon,
10 Lime Street, Boston.
Dear Sir:
Houdini, 278 West 113th Street, N. Y.
Sept. 24, 1926.
When Dr. McComas called on me, I distinctly said in f~ont of
witness, that knowing· the Crandon's method of reporting for pro-
tective purposes I want to hand you, meaning Dr. McComas, an
outline of my procedure. Instead of talking things over would
write, so my statements could not be garbled.
The enclosed is a copy I gave Dr. McComas and which he said
he would have you read, although it was not originally intended
that you should have this letter. He informed me the next day
that he had given you the letter. From same you can check up
my statements.1
At no time was I willing to come to your house
alone-always wanted a number of witnesses.
Please don't use the usual tactics of waiting until I leave and
then grant ine permission to come to a seance. I am sending this
to you special delivery, registered, and I will be at the theatre
all day waiting your reply.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) HouDINI.
The incident was closed by the following letter from
Crandon:
10 Lime Street,
Boston, Mass.
My Dear Houdini :
Sept. 24, 1926.
7:30 P .M.
Thanks for your note received one-half hom; ago.
Sunday, Sept. 19, 1926, Professor McComas of Princeton and
Professor Overstreet of the College of tbe City of New York were
here waiting for yoi1 to keep your agreement to duplicate, in front
of your own witnesses and ours, the Margery phenomena under
the same conditions of control to which she always submits.
After you learned, from a two hour conversation with these
two gentlemen, the detailed rigidity of the Margery control you
discreetly and wisely declined ·to come.
1 See Houdini's letter of Sept. 18, to McComas, pages 528-9, s~tpm.
(
.)
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 533
If you now have changed your mind again and want to risk
it, I have no doubt you can make arrangements with Dr. H. C.
McComas, 109 Broadmead Street, N. J.
Sincerely,
(Signed) L. R. G. CRANDON.
Nothing further was heard from Houdini, and one of the
strangest characters of his time, who devoted the last years
of his brilliant and unique career to a bitter and unrelenting
attack upon the genuineness of all alleged psychic phenomena,
thus passed from the scene with a lost opportunity to mark his
exit. He died October 31st, 1926. If the seance action described
to him by two learned psychologists was the product of fraud
and trickery, Houdini, creator of mysteries, super-mag:ician,
master illusionist, prestidigitateur supreme, and greatest con-
juror of his time if not of all times, could surely have uncovered
or duplicated the guilty technique which, oi1 his theory, had
eluded the observation of all others. If, on the other hand,
the phenomena were super-normal and Houdini sincere in his
announced willingness to search out the truth/ he might have
rendered a service in establishing the facts that would have
added a cro'irn of glory to his career. Great man he was in
the authentic field of his talents; but in the serious work of
psychical research, to which he thought his talents called him,
he must in the end be classed as a great failure, contributing
.little but fruitless controversy and self-advertising.
On the following evening, September 19th, a sitting was had,
but not under rigid conditions, since no plans had been made
for further sittings of this sort. McComas and Overstreet were
present with two strangers, and much of the conversation
during the latter part of the seance revolved, perforce, about
the attempt of one of the new sitters to get vValter to confirm
a· curious, mechanistic concept of the means by which prayers
are answered, and some very fixed ideas regarding the concli-
tions surrounding a future existence. Hill controlled Margery's
left hand, with Overstreet and Walton sitting next in order
at his left, Crandon controlling the right hand as usual. The
1 See Houdini and Conan Doyle, by Emst & Carrington, Albert & Charles Bani,
New York, 1932.
534 . MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
striking feature of this seance involves a novel test of the old
(S.A.) bell-box, a test which was really initiated by Walter.
SEPTEMBER 19, 1926. Trance came on promptly and Walter
spoke almost at once, saying: "What are you doing here?
I thought I was going to have a night off and watch Houdini get
tied up. . He was afraid to come. He wouldn't have
liked to be tied up in that cabinet; I would have talked to him.'.'
After some further conversation along the same lines, the.
bell-box (which had been placed on the table before the seance
began) emitted peculiar sounds.. The luminous dot in the center
of the flapper was not visible to Dudley (who stood up)..Walter
said : ., 'I'II sho'Y' you something none of you know,'' and asked
for the light. In red light it was seen that the contact mecha-
nism (cqnsisting of two boards, hinged at one end, and carry~.
ing the spring and contacts) was resting on edge on the table;.
at the side of the bell-box next the Psychic.2 In a succeeding
period of darkness the bell rang again, while, with the light
on, the flappers were seen on top of the box but crosswise. (The:
connecting wires were, of course, still intact.) · The bell again
rang in the dark but when picked up by Overstreet in asuc-
ceeding period of red light (with the flappers dangling) it did
not ring. As soon as the apparatus had been replaced on the
table and the light extinguished, Walter said: "The next time,
Walton pick up the box and Overstreet support the flapper.''
This was done in red light, and the bell rang intermittently as
they turned with the box, making one revolution. White flash
light was turned on the box and flapper throughout this test.·
When the apparatus was replaced on the table the hinged flapper
was left near the end of the table next to Overstreet, and. the
box nearer the center of the table.
With the light out Walter asked that the flapper be turned
over, and in the succeeding period of light the bell was silent;
however, as soon as the flapper had been turned upside down
2 It was learl).ed that the box had fallen to the floor sinee the last sitting, and
it is assumed that this fall loosened the serews sufficiently to allow of removing the
flapper mechanism from the box proper. I found that the serews did not projeet
far enough to form a very seeure fasteriing.-E. E. D. . ·
NO'l'ABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 535
the bell rang vigorously. The light was again extinguished
and Walter asked that the flapper be again turned over. The
experiment was repeated with the same results; i.e., the bell
rang after the flapper was turned over. This was followed
by several more repetitions with exactly the same results. Dud-
ley, watching the operation closely, noted that the flapper did
not change its position between the periods of light; that the
side .that was uppermost at the close of one experiment was
still uppermost when the light again went on. The two boards
forming this mechanism are almost exactly the same size, are
of the same material; hence, are of nearly the same weight
(allowing for the very small difference due to the weight of
the spring attached to the board that is normally on the bottom).
The separation of the two boards due to the spring seemed to
be normal at the beginning and end of the experiment, showing
that considerable weight must be applied to cause closure of
the contacts. Taking all the facts into consideration, that could
be determined by the series of observations, it seemed apparent
that the operation was not ·produced by a normal connection.
The mechanism acted as though the board that was underneath
when the light went on was always the heavier one by a suffi-
cient margin to depress the spring and close the contacts; and
that this was true irrespective of which board was underneath.3
As soon as Walter had finished with this test, one of the
new sitters entered the lists with a series of questions for which
he demanded answers. After a long and painstaking effort to
satisfy the gentleman, Walter quoted from Voltaire: ''To be
uncertain is disagreeable ; to be certain is to be ridiculous.''
This seemed to :find its mark for the sitter answered: "How
does it happen that a mere mechanic like you, Walter, got a
chance to read Voltaire~" Walter replied, "Here's another,"
a This incident may be regarded as a hint for future experiments unaer more
satisfactory conditions of control. However, there was sufficient light to give good
assurance against any normal attachments to the flappers, while the rotation could
take place in either direction at the will of the sitter, a fact which argues strongly
against the probability that any normal means were used to produce the ringing.
This argument applies with far greater force to the first experiment, when Walton
and Overstreet turned a complete circle, side by side, while the bell rang .llit>eJ•-
mittently.
536 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
and recited some poetry which was not recorded, closing with
the remark: ''That, I got digging sewers.'' His voice, at this.
point became louder and huskier (distinctly vocal) as he added :
"You're all snobs; the street cleaner, the sewer digger or the
kitchen worker may be more spiritual than the white-collared
person who is so sure that he is God's representative. When,
in the next life, you find yourself slipping down the sluggy
sides of the cliff you may·be glad of the helping hand of the
more spiritual street cleaner. The domestic in your kitchen
may be an old and tried soul; some of you are .certainly fresh
souls." This little homily seemed to miss its mark, as judged
by the conversation after the sitting, but it showed that Walter
could manifest considerable emotion when the provocation was
sufficient. The sitting closed at 10 :15 P.M., having lasted exactly ·
one hour.
OcTOBER 3, 192,6. "While this sitting was for a wholly frie.ndly
group the control was made just as severe as that of. the 18th.
Dudley and l)r. Martin applied the wire ties to wrists and ankles
and made the ties in the cabinet, Martin securing the collar.
Mrs. Brown searched the Psychic and her clothing and ap-
plied the adhesive tapes as described in the earlier record.
Martin examined the seance room and the cabinet with a flash
lamp; he also put a number of wooden letters in a box and
kept this under his control until the light was turned out, when
he put the whole into the large basket and the latter in the
cabinet at Margery's right-4 He left the cover on the box so
that no one would be able to see even the top letter. As soon
as Walter spoke the basket was levitated from the floor, the
cover of the box was thrown out, and Walter said : ''Here is
a remarkable coincidence. It wouldn't hap'pen once in a thou-
sand times. The first letter is the same as on the last test: a Z.''
He then identified the following: Q, 0, 0, and commented on
the tightness with which the last letter :fitted the box and, while
working to get it out, threw out the Z, which was shortly fol-
lowed by the vV. The latter was in the bottom of the box and
4 The circle for this part of the seance was: Ma1·gery, Martin, Mrs. Brown,
Cr
·andon, Dr. Brown, Adler, J. H. Brown, Dudley.
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 537
was an exceedingly tight fit. Martin stated that these were
correctly named and were in their proper order. (Ordinarily
the test is made by random choice of the letters in the dark,
so that the sitter will not have any conscious knowledge of their
nature. This variation is interesting even though the results
might be attributed to telepathy if the method were often used.)
Martin told vValter that he had put a personal article in the
basket-a small piece of metal. \Valter answered, ''I can tell
that before I get within six inches of it." Dudley: "What
kind of metal is it ~ " -walter : "\Vhat kind of metal is a key
made of~'' Dudley : ''There are two kinds (ordinarily).''
Walter: "Well, this is the other kind. Here, Dr. Martin, take
the basket and get your key, I can't find it. " The basket
dropped to the floor and, with the red light on, Martin removed
the key (a small brass key of the Yale type).
The shelf was placed in the cabinet and the small basket
placed thereon. Crandon placed the shelf and Martin the
basket.5
The latter rocked in 'the dark and then in the light,
while Martin passed his hand and arm between the basket and
the Psychic. vVith Walter's consent, Dudley passed his hands
and arms completely around the rocking basket, touching the
top and bottom of the shelf simultaneously when passil1g into
the cabinet, bringing the tips of the fingers together at the back
of the shelf, and circumscribing the locus of the phenomenon,
while the basket continued to rock without any perceptible
change in rate or amplitude.
The basket and shelf were removed and Walter asked for
a luminous doughnut. Crandon brought one in but Walter said
it was too bright (it was sufficiently brilliant to light up the
face of anyone within three feet of it). At \¥alter's request,
Martin put it in the large basket, and then asked to have this
basket removed and replaced by the small basket with luminous
bands. He levitated the small basket, dropped it, asked to have
it put in large one, and then levitated both, removing the
5 With the exception of this incident, Crandon was not involved in the action
centm·ing about the cabinet. The placing and removal of the baskets, etc., being-
done by Martin or Dudley.
538 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
small one while both were in the air (as determined by the
brilliant luminous doughnut in the bottom of the larger basket).t
and dropped the small basket to the floor. He asked Dudley
to put the small basket back in the large one, and as the latter
did so he noted that there was a marked resiliency in the sup-
port of the large basket. The two baskets were then levitated
higher; the small one was removed to the Psychic's lap; while
the large one, as it would appear, was wedged against the side
of the cabinet and the forward edge of the chair arm. The
small basket was then levitated and dropped to the floor. The
doughnut was removed from the large basket and held in a
three-fingered terminal in such manner that it was bent to an
obtuse angle along one diameter. The illumination was suffi-
cient to show the three-part structure very clearly, the long,
slender digits being about the size of a lead pencil. While thus
held it was turned in all directions, and was held at the front
of the cabinet while Martin checked the Psychic's mouth.
Walter then asked for another doughnut, which was pro-
vided by Crandon. This was placed in the large basket, the
whole levitated, the doughnut removed, dropping to the floor
of the cabinet. Dudley replaced it in the basket, which was held
out from the cabinet in a convenient position. Walter asked
for the other doughnut, which was placed in the large basket,
the latter levitated and the doughnut removed.
The two luminous rings were then seen in motion at the
same time, sometimes in the same direction but at different
rates, again in opposite directions, while Martin again checked
the fact that Margery's mouth was not involved in the operation
in addition to the observation that Walter spoke from time to
time while the levitations were in progress. The brighter dough-
nut fell to the floor near the front of the cabinet, and was moved
while close to Dudley's left foot (hence beyond the reach of
Margery's right foot). The small basket moved forcibly against
Dudley's left leg in a manner suggesting that it was being held
firmly .
Walter requested that the medium be released from her
bonds. Martin and Dudley checked all ties, found them exactly
NOTABLE SITTINGS IN 1926 539
as originally applied \vith all pencil marks unchanged, and
released her from the cabinet.
The circle was reformed in the old cabinet as follows: Mar-
gery, Martin, Dudley, J. H. Brown, Adler, Mrs. E. vV. Brown
and Crandon. The bell-box and scales were successfully tested
with Martin engineering. The former rang intermittently in
white flash light, while carried about, and while on the table,
but ceased ringing after it had been examined externally and
the flapper replaced, thus indicating (since the separation of
the contacts was normal) that there had been no tampering with
the spring.6
The flapper on this bell-box is 8 inches long, and the pressure
required to close the contacts, if applied at a point one-inch
from the free end of the flapper, is approximately 11 ounces
(av.). These measurements were made with the spring at its
normal tension: i.e., with the flappers separated to approxi-
mately their usual distance as observed by the writer during
a considerable number of seances.
G .As outlined on p. 119.
CHAPTER XLVII
Miscellaneous Episodes of Late 1926
·while many of the elements entering into the seances re-
eorded below are not strictly telekinetic in character, and some
others are almost wholly subjective in content, there does not
seem to be any more logical place to include them than in the
present chapter. Most of them were omitted from the first
volume for lack of space, and may be treated somewhat more
fully at this time than would have otherwise been the case.
The first seance in this group was previously overlooked
and is presented here merely to complete the record. The
report is by Crandon; the sitting seems to have been held in the
-
old cabinet, as was that of the previous evening. The sitters,
in addition to Margery and Crandon, were: Miss Laura Cran-
don, Mr. J. H. Brown, his son and daughter-in-law; a wholly
friendly group who sat for one-half hour beginning at 9 :30 P.M.
on September 6th, 1926 :
"Walter came through at once but seemed surprised that we
were sitting. He had a friendly talk with Brown's son and
daughter-in-law, made·one or two touches, and then rang the bell-
box in red light intermittently while the box was passed around
among the sitters. The box was then put down, cover lifted back
for examination, cover put back; then in the red light intermittent
ringing was repeated again and again. Walter then rang the bell
in dim red light the number of times requested by Mrs. Brown.
The scales were now brought out, and Walter balanced
statically and in oscillation a four-to-one load in bright red light,
while free examination in all directions was made by Brown, Jr.
In the abstracted reports given in several of the chapters .
-on Telekinesis the reader will find brief statements as to the
rolling of the small basket on the shelf in the glass cabinet.
This was described at some length in pp. 401-f£, Vol. I, which
records appear to cover some of the earliest presentations of
this phenomenon. In the following abstract from the notes of
\
540
MISCELLANEOUS EPISODES OF LATE 1926 541
Bond and Dudley it is interesting to note that the area between
the basket and the Psychic was completely circumscribed in two
passes of Bond's arm and hand; furthermore, the standard
wire ties were supplemented by adhesive tapes at wrists and
ankles, across which Bond made marks with a blue pencil, and
he states that these marks were undisturbed at the close of
the glass-cabinet part of the sitting.1
OcTOBER 19, 1926. Following application of wire ties and tapes
as noted above; there were the usual cognitions of wooden letters
which, as Bond notes were correct with the exception that Walter
mistook a B for a figure 8. The large (non-luminous) basket used
with the letters was then passed for articles to be cognized by
Walter. The second article in the basket had a most interesting
effect: Walter said: "Here is a queer little stone-like slate.
There are some strange markings on it. I get curious sensations
when I pick it up. I should like to study it. It has some strange
vibrations. I will tell you more about this stone later. It seems
to take me back a long way. Has it something to do with the roof
of a building~ I get the sound of bells. I don't like them. They
are so loud they confuse my thinking. '' Dudley notes that Bond
asked: ''Can you tell me about it? I don't know its ltistory. ''
Walter: "I don't either but I'd like to." (Note by Bond. The
stone is a piece of carved slate stone from the older church [Nor-
man] at Glastonbury which was burned in 1184. It was dug up·
in recent years.)
A basket with luminous patches on the handle was laid by Bond
along the surface of a movable shelf in front of the Psychic. This.
was rolled to and fro by Walter in the dark. The red light was
turned on and the rolling motion continued. Bond was allowed
to pass his right hand and arm down between the basket and the
Psychic's lap, for the whole length, and states that while his fingers.
explored the whole lower edge of the shelf, he encountered nothing
tangible at any point. The shelf did not appear to move although
the basket continued to rock. It was also noted that Bond made
a similar exploration from beneath the shelf with like result.
The levitation of the luminous basket (with shelf removed) was
done under excellent conditions: while the basket was held hori-
zontally and projected about 2 feet from the front of the cabinet,
Bond and Tolman checked the right and left hand ties and Tolman
placed his hand over the medium's mouth while Bond felt of the·
foot ties.
1 'l'he circle was arranged as follows: Margery, Bond, MTs. Tolman, Crandon,
Hill, Dr. Pease, Mr. Tolman. Outside, in the same order: Mrs. Hill, Richardson,.
and Dudley.
542 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
In the old cabinet, th<J bell-box was engineered by Mrs. Hill,
Bond, and in turn by everyone else in the circle except Crandon,
passing through eight hands and r~nging intermittently for each
person.
The scales were enginoored by Bond, with a 1 : 4 load, Bond
and Tolman making passes around scales, and Bond passed pencil
under pans, in red light, after which he lifted the scales unit about
18 inches above the table in white light from fl.ashlamp.
The record of October 29th, 1926, was withheld from its
more appropriate place in Volume 1, with the expectation that
it might better be presented in connection with several other
seances which appear in a succeeding chapter, but because of
the nature of the phenomena it seems more appropriate to pre-
sent it here. The first part brings out a very interesting error
in an identification of a specially marked playing card presented
by Professor Longwell:
Longwell, in the dark, now broke the seal of a newly bought
pack of cards and put one of them out, after having marked it
with a pencil. He had in his pocket r<Jd. and blue pencils, and did
not know which he had used. In about five minutes Walter declared
the card to be the six of hearts, and said that the pencil mark
wasn't clear to him because it was on the back of the card, and in
the same color as the scroll work [correct]. Longwell now, there-
fore, marked th<J card with a knife and Walter described this new
mark as a half moon. The second card .put down was identified
by Walter as the seven of diamonds, with an X mark over it in
blue pencil, plus a knife marking that consisted of three holes, on<J
each at top, bottom and side. A third card he identified as the
jack of clubs. All these cognitions were perfect except that the
second card was the diamond eightj but it is only fair to say that
the blue pencil mark covered completely one of the pips.
The second part of the sitting was given over to an experi-
ment which Mr. Breaker was anxious to try. His interest in
the particular form of supernormal photography known as
Hskotographs" is well described in the Journal, March, 1927.
Eight very sensitive dry plates were laid out on the table in
front of Margery, in groups of four, Longwell assisting
Breaker. Bird reports that Breaker had these plates developed
:and prints made by a commercial photographer, and that the
MISCELLANEOUS EPISODES OF· LATE 1926 543
prints were submitted to Bird with the statement that the
curious light streaks shown thereon might not be of normal
causation but with no claim that they were demonstrably super-
normal. As it is stated that these prints are not suited for
reproduction, and since Mr. Lescarboura, to whom they were
submitted, seems not to have come to any very definite deci-
sion/ the experiment may be dismissed with Walter's comment,
"I don't know whether there is anything on them. I haven't
had any experience with this sort of work and don't know how
much light to use.'' .
On November 9th, further experiments .were made by the
regular group, using dry plates of ordinary sensitiveness.
While the plates were exposed, gelatin side up, on the table, a
small, relatively bright and clearly defined luminous spot was
seen over the table. Dudley estimated its dimensions as
approximately 1% x % inches, and its duration as about six
seconds. This moved about quite freely, as though under con-
trol, but there were no changes in the photographic plates to
indicate that they had been exposed to light. The luminous
patch was bright; yet, apparently, lacked actinic power. This
incident points to another and very interesting field of investi-
gation which should not be too difficult to explore, at least, so
far as concerns its outermost edges.
The sitting of November 16th3
was of the standardized glass-
cabinet sort in which the basket was again held well out in front
of the c~binet while Cathron and Gray checked the security and
position of the Psychic's hands, feet and mouth. This was
followed immediately by further levitations of great freedom
and scope. The V-C-0 was checked by Gray and controlled
by Cathron, during a successful test.
In the old cabinet an interesting incident occurred in con-
2 He is of the opinion that the marks are due to scratches, friction, etc., but
admits that it is difficult to explain the presence of white marks on a black back-
ground unless these are negative prints. Breaker told the writer that he was going
to take the plates to a commercial photographer to be developed and printed, and
assured Bird that t hese were direct prints.
s The data given are compiled f1·om Dudley's notes. 'rhe sitters, in orde1
·, were:
Margery, Judge Gray, Dudley, Cranclon, Mr. Johnson, Mr. Dunn, and Mr. Catluon.
Outside the circle: Mrs. Ellison and Mrs. Dunn.
544 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
nection with both the bell-box and the scales. When the former
was placed on the table Walter seemed to be having some diffi-
culty with it, finally remarking, ''Say, Dudley, what's the matter
with the bell-box'? My energy doesn't stick; it slips of£." Dud-
ley replied that he did not know that anything had been done
to it. After some further delay Walter made it ring and it
continued to do so intermittently while Cathron, Gray and Mrs.
Dunn engineered it. \V"hen the scales were placed on the table
and loaded 1: 3, the east or light pan was lower than the three-
weighted pan in red light. When the weights were changed,
at Walter's request, to a 1: 4 loading the scales showed an
uneven balance, although, ordinarily, they balance evenly with
such loadings. Passes were made by Cathron and Gray with
the pans still in kinetic unbalance, and in white flashlight. As
soon as the light was turned out Walter said, "Dudley, what
did you .do to the rider when you took it off~" To which the
latter replied, "I did nothing to it except weigh it,4
and put
it back exactly where I found it." Walter: "Something is
wrong. I can't get a perfect balance any more. It used to
balance exactly but since you took.that rider off I can't.do any-
thing with it!" After thinking the matter over, Dudley said,
"I made no physical change whatever in either the rider or
the weights but I did leave the weights (wooden) in the sunlight
for a few minutes when I was marking them.'' Walter: ''That's
it. The sun melted the ectoplasm and that's why I can't make
them balance. I had them fixed just right to get an exact bal-
ance, and now they are way off.'' It was learned, after the
seance, that the bell-box had been left in the back room during
the morning hours, when the sun could shine on it. This is the
only time that this has happened, so far as can be learned.
While these comments of Walter's are not capable of scientific
checking as to their accurate description of cause and effect, they
may cast a little light on the reason why he prefers to have his
seance equipment left in darkness.
The seances next in order are largely devoted to the sub-
4 The weights were numbered and accurately weighed, as was tile rider.
MISCELLANEOUS EPISODES OF· LATE 1926 545
jective side of the Walter personality in conjunction with the
eontrols of another medium. Whatever the conversation lacks
in evidential value may, perhaps, be compensated for by its
interest in other directions and to those readers who wish to
get a somewhat clearer picture of this phase of the mediumship.
The apparent interaction between the two control personalities
has many elements of interest, paralleling that of Chapter
XXXIII, but including rather more telekinetic action than was
noted in the earlier instance.
The seances referred to below re.volve about the presence of
the medium William Cartheuser in Lime Street, and Bird's
prior contacts with him at Lily Dale, the Spiritualist center in
New York. The first of these Lily Dale sittings was on August
23rd, 1925, from about 10 :00 A.M. to about 1 :30 P.M.; the second,
on August 29th, at 7:00 P.M.-according to Bird's report. The
results of these may be condensed as follows : Cartheuser 's
little-girl control, Elsie, apparently gave way to an entity pur-
porting to be the Walter of the Lime Street seances, and the
latter made several statements and replied to Bird's questions
in a manner which was not particularly evidential of Walter,
nor of anyone having original and specific information as to
the events in Lime Street, ·while some of the remarks would
indicate a complete misconception of the facts on the part of
the communicator. There was more or less profanity connected
with these alleged communications; its form and application
being rather more indicative of an attempted impersonation
of a character whose true personality was not comprehended
than of a direct communication from the Lime Street Walter.
Bird notes that there was a possibility that Walter might
have attempted to communicate through Cartheuser so he wrote
Crandon immediately after the seance of August 23rd, stating
that he had had what purported to be a visit from Walter, and
asking the former to attempt to get a verification or disclaimer.
When this matter was presented to Walter at the sitting of
August 27th, he refused to say more than, ''Tell Birdie that I
will talk to him direct, when he is here.'' This opportunity did
not present itself until October 19, 1925, the record of which
546 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
sitting was given on p. 270, with the exception of Bird's report
of his conversation with Walter, which follows:
Walter came through promptly, and after some casual conver-
sation Bird interrogated him with reference to his alleged appear-
ance to Bird in two sittings given by the medium William Car-
theuser at Lily Dale in August (full accounts of which are found
in Bird 's confidential documents pertaining to his Lily Dale trip).
Walter would not deny specifically and in so many words that he-
had been present in Lily Dale, but all his remarks leaned strongly
in the direction of a cryptic denial and it was clear to Bird and
to all the other listeners that this was the purport of his responses.
Through normal or supernormal means, however, he had a good
deal of knowledge of these Lily Dale sittings; though Bird had
been extremely careful that there should be no leak through him.
Walter knew the medium's name, and pronounced it correctly ~
Kar-thew'-ser, whereas any person with knowledge of German
would say Ka1·'-toy-se1· in preference to the barbarous Angliciza-
tion involved in the ''correct'' pronunciation. He knew the name
of one of the controls as Alice, which it will be noted is phonetically
similar to and stenographically identical with Elsie. He credited
the bulk of the seance-room conversation to ''Alice'' ; and it is to
be noted that Bird, in his first memoranda, had tentatively and
with absence of conviction attributed this major role to Elsie,
settling upon Daisy as the fTee talker only after some correspond-
ence with the other sitters. . . . (Personal comments omitted af:!.
not germane to the subject under discussion.)
Walter knew that there had been a good deal of swearing done
in his name in the L·ily Dale sittings. He had considerable specific-
knowledge of the medium's appearance and manners: including the
hare-lip and the resultant peculiarities of diction, the inferiority
complex and the apparent childishness of mind. This seemed to
be the extent of his actual knowledge.
It is worthy of record in addition to the above that Walter
characterized the Cartheuser mediumship as Bird bas characterized
it in his own mind: as possessing elements of genuineness, and as:
of much potential importance if the rubbish could be swept away.
He indicated that the telekinesis as well as the messages were to-
be regarded as having a basis in validity. Without actually saying
so, he made it rather clear that he wished us to regard the imper-
sonation of himself as the work of Elsie and other mischievous con-
trols, rather than something to be charged against the medium
himself; but even on this basis, he recognized the Margery book
(which Cartheuser has read) as the major source of information.
Nothing further developed in connection with the above
sittings, but as a result of Cartheuser's close connection with
MISCELLANEOUS EPISODES OP LATE 1926 547-
the v1rork of the New York Section of the Society he came to
Boston in October, 1926, and was present at the Margery
seances of October 16th and 17th. The following reports are
Crandon's, but Dudley has included certain additional infor-
mation covering his personal experiences and observations,
which latter were made from a point in the circle almost dia-
metrically opposite Crandon's position. As a means of differ-
entiating between the two parts of these reports Dudley's inter-
polations will be placed in square brackets and identified in
Note 6. With these explanations the reports follow in order:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, October 16th, 1926; in the old cabinet.
On the table was a silver cup containing three rose-buds, on the
floor on the side opposite Margery stood Cartheuser 's four-foot,
three-section collapsible trumpet, 1.milluminated. The sitting was
in darkness throughout, with hand control only.
Margery went quickly into trance and during the evening Car-
theuser was in trance perhaps one-third of the time. The first
physical manifestation was when everyone in the circle was tapped
on the head or face with one of the roses. Walter came through
shortly and said that this was done so that Cartheuser's control
could get the vibration of every sitter and get acquainted with
them. Shortly after this, after a lot of merry talking with
Walter, the metal trumpet was heard to move about and then
apparently from its large end, at the farthest possible distance in
the circle from Cartheuser, a loud whisper was heard saying,
''Hello, mother. I love you mother. Preserves, preserves, preserves.
Two women. Cat, C-A-'r, Cat." Then ·walter commented, "Trust
John to be around where jam is." Then the same voice of John
said, "My love to sister." (L-ater Mrs. Richardson declared that
the two maids had been putting up preserves recently, that the
cat was always around and in the way, and that in the year
when John, her son, passed over there was only one sister, two
more having been born since.) A tenor voice now made an effort
at singing and later a treble or falsetto voice did some singing.
[The trumpet struck Dudley lightly on the face, then, a little
later striking his glasses as from the left (the side away from
Cartheuser) but at such an apparent angle as to give the impres-
sion that the trumpet was pointing toward .De Wyckoff, seated at
Dudley's left.5
Walter advised Dudley to remove his glasses when
this incident was reported, and the latter did so. 'rhe trumpet
dropped to the floor, became separated into two sections, which
5 The circle was as follows: Margery (in cabinet), Cartheuser (at her left and
outside the cabinet), Hill, Dudley, DeWyckoff, Richardson, Mrs. DeWyckoff, M1·s.
Richardson, and Crandon.
548 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
were subsequently used separately by two different voices, one
of which talked to Hill and the other to DeWyckoff. During this
part of the seance and that just preceding·, Walter talked or
whistled while the trumpet voices were beard. His voice and
whistle did not appear to come from a point near Margery but
more from outside the cabinet, well in front of it and higher in
the room than is usually the case.] 6
Then came a voice declaring itself to be Crawford for Mr.
DeWyckoff. Asked if it were "W. J.," the voice came back, "No,
G. W. and I am not lost." ('l'bis seemed evidential to some degree
to Mr. DeWyckoff. )
A mass of luminous teleplasm was now seen coming from Hill's
abdominal region which built up as high as six feet from the floor,
at times waving about, changing· in width from four to twelve
inches. Speaking from the region of this column of light Walter
gave a talk on hygiene addressed mostly to one of the sitters. He
recommended apples, saying, "An apple a day, will keep Waite~·
away." And then made a couplet by adding, "An onion a day'll
keep everyone away.'' H e then prescribed a diet thus: ''a bowl of ·
mush or oatmeal for breakfast; some nice soup for luncheon; and
then anything you want for supper provided you don't eat it.''
[Dudley was patted gently on the forehead, and, a little later
on the left leg below the knee, follow-
ed almost instantly by a touch
on the right knee which, in turn, was repeated as a series of sharp
taps, as though by a soft hand. DeWyckoff and Mrs. DeWyckoff
also reported touches7 on knees and lower legs.] 6
'l'he table was now moved away from Margery about three feet
and everyone got touches on the head and two people were touched
simultaneously at opposite sides·of the circle, Walter again saying,
' ' The visitors are going around tlie circle getting acquainted with
your vibrations.'' The accuracy and precision of the touches pre-
cisely on top of head, or on cheek, or nose, should be noted. Hill's
eyeglasses were taken off with perfect dexterity. John's voice
improved as he went on talking. Many times Walter's voice and
John's voice were heard simultaneously and the psychic light was
seen by all at the same time. Again at one time there were three
voices heard speaking· at once: Walter 's, J ohn's, and a treble voice.
Hill was being touched and the psychic light column was seen, all at
once. Again the treble voice was heard with Walter 's whistling
and at the same time the flowers were being tossed about. The
luminous column or "shining garment" as Walter calls it, from
time to time would go over to Hill and seem to get reinforcement.
6 'l'he same footnote will be used to identify the remaining 11otes added by
Dudley, in this and the following seance.
7 Such reports of touches, colcl breezes, etc., reported by one or more persons
are, necessarHy, on the authority of the one rep01·ting them.
MISCELLANEOUS EPISODES OF LATE 1926 549
It then would move to the very center of the circle, grow to six
feet high, and the voice of Walter was heard coming always from
the very top of it just as if there were a speaking head on the top
of the partly materialized six-foot figure. The top of the figure
was seen sometimes well above the cabinet top and nearly to the
ceiling. Hill's chair was pushed several times from behind, towards
the center of the circle. He said now that he was stroked on the
face as if by a hand and the hand was· perfumed-not as by the
rose-buds. ·
[Hill reported that his nose was pulled and twisted vigorously,
then was pushed, very hard.] 6•
Commenting on the meeting of ministers October 13th, Walter
said, "It is their opinion that I am a spirit of low mentality,"
saying this in a most affected Bostonese manner. Walter then
explained that the tone of a spirit voice depended solely on the
instrument (the medium) which he uses. The voice depends on
the medium's anatomy, although not in any normal way.
The sitting closed with a few more words on the care of health
and Walter said: ''Thou art the master of thy shape.''
October 17, 1926: Sitting in the old cabinet.8
·walter came through promptly, Margery being· in trance and
about twenty minutes later Cartheuser went into trance and they
both stayed in trance until the end of the sitting. All the sitters
on the west side experienced touches, the table was moved away
from Margery, and many sitters were touched with the flowers from
the vase on the table. The luminous teleplasm came forth from
Hill, as usual.9
It was very brilliant, and at least four feet in
height. We then had the entirely novel experience of seeing the
luminous column enclose one of the roses and carry this about,
which was regarded as a marvelous demonstration. We had again
the experience of the night before, of Walter talking nearly always
from the upper end of this luminous garment as if his head were
there but not visibly materialized. This column of luminous tele-
plasm moved as far as 54 inches away from either psychic.
Shortly after this a distant falsetto or child's voice came through
Cartheuser 's trumpet as far away from the psychics as possible in
the circle. It gave the name of Francis which was not recognized;
of Mary, then Mary Pratt which was not recognized; and then
Martha concerning which nothing was said.
Walter then gave some more talk on hygiene and diet, urging us
all to eat less and to be more spiritual.
s 'l'he sitters were: Margery, Cartheuser, Hill, Dudley, DeWyckoff, Mrs. Rich·
ardson, Richardson, Mrs. DeWyckoff, and Crandon. Outside the circle: Dr. Brown,
Mrs. K . Brown, J. H. Brown, Mrs. Frothingham, and Dr. Cobleigh.
9 See Chapter XLV.
. I
I
550 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Then Cartbeuser 's regular control, a child named Alice,10 came
through his trumpet and talked at great length. She said that she
was born in Germany, had passed over at the age of five, which
was now ten years ago, and that she was a cousin of Cartheuser.
Addressed to Mrs. Brown : Alice continued in her clear treble
voice, which gave no similarity to the ear to the voice of Cartbeuser.
He bas a .cleft palate and cannot speak without its peculiarity show-
ing itself. ''I get J acobs, Jacobs, Mrs. Jacobs, towards the south
from here. Did you lose your job ~ Ha! Ha! You treated her,
gave her massage, gave her iodine.'' Mrs. Brown states, apropos
of this: ''I was a trained nurse. One of my last patients was
Mrs. Jacobs, whom I do not know to be dead. I treated her at the
Deaconess Hospital, which is south from here. Mrs. Jacobs used to
joke with me that I was going to lose my job when I got married.''
Alice then came through with : Margaret Colberg, Coldwell,
Caldwell. This is the exact name of Mrs. Brown's mother wholly
unknown to Cartheuser.11
Alice then continued, "Here is a man
who was said to hav·e committed suicide. He didn't. It was acci-
dental. Tellliis wife."
While this was going on Walter in the background was trying
to teach us technique; he said, ''Don't ask direct questions, don't
concentrate on questions. Things are much more likely to come
through if you don't get' tense.'' While this was going on, the four-
foot column of light, which seemed to represent Walter, was seen
to assume a position as if it were an outline of a person sitting on
the far edge of the table, back to Margery, and swinging its legs,
a picture which Walter had promised us over six months ago, and
that we now saw. for the first time. We could then see this figure
of light reach over forwards from the table to the floor and bring
up the trumpet as if to hand it to Alice.
Another whispered voice ca.me through the long trumpet saying,
''Hello, Helfo,'' and then began to whistle the air of the tune being
played on the victrola. Here Walter broke in and said, ''That's
Alec! I had to let him through or there would be no peace here
tonight. Now, Alec, you whistle the victrola tune and I '11 whistle
something else.'' Whereupon, Alec continued to whistle the vic-
trola tune and Walter whistled, "Tramp, tramp, tramp, the boys
are marching." "Alec" refers to Captain A. W . Cross, a former
member of our circle, now deceased.12
To J. H. Brown : Alice speaking said, "Here is Martha for
you. A sweetheart.'' To this Mr. Brown replied, ''No, my wife.''
10 Both Crandon and the writer heard the name as Alice, as spoken by ·walter i.
therefore, this name is used in these reports to identify Carthenser 's soi-disant
child control of this evening although she is usually called El~ie .
11 Tl1e surname (Caldwell) may be obtained from M . -~1-·
12 SeeM. M., page 14.
MISCELLANEOUS EPISODES OF LATE 1926 551':
Alice came back quickly saying, ''Isn't that a sweetheart~'' Then
she said, "Here's a little grandson for you and you have just had
a letter with a proposed journey in it.'' Brown confirmed the
grandson deceased, and that he had just got a letter asking him
to make a visit in Chicago.
·The big end of the trumpet now headed over to Crandon: Alice
speaking said, '' Here are two for you: one is Elizabeth, Elizabeth
P ., Elizabeth Pillisbury, Pillsbury fl.o'ur, and here is Mary, Mary
Ann. Both send all their love to you.'' These are the correct
names of Crandon's two grandmothers. Then to Mrs. . De-
Wyckoff came from Alice : ''Here is Sarah, no Sadie, for Minerva
(evidential to Mrs. DeWyckoff).
[The column of luminous teleplasm developed in a curious man-
ner, almost as though it was the central portion of a living figure,
and :floated from the vicinity of the cabinet through or across the
table and out into the circle almost to DeWyckoff, who was seated
exactly opposite Margery. From Dudley's position (at DeWyckoff's
right) the column then appeared to be about 11/2 inches thick and
nine or ten inches wide, with its upp-er end approximately 5 feet
from the :floor. The luminous mass retreated to the cabinet, _and
again returned to approximately the same position; while W alt((r 's
voice was heard as from the top of this column, saying, "1 'am
· coming. Look out, I'll get you!'' Dudley replied, ''Corne ahead.'',.
The column approached to a position in front of and to the left
of Dudley, distant from his left shoulder about two feet, then ·a
hand-like grip fastened on Dudley's hair just above the forehead
and pulled it vigorously, as though a force of two or thl'ee pounds
were exerted. 'rhis pull was at the proper angle to have originated '
at the height of the left shoulder of a tall person standing at th.e,
point indicated by the column of'light. There was no slightest indi-
cation of fumbling or inaccti'racy ·in the act of grasping the hair
and no contact with the skin. This action was reported by Dudley,
as the column again returned to the vicinity of the cabinet (at the
east side) and became less luminous. J . H. Bro1¥n, from his po.si-
tion outside the circle at Dudley's left, asked Walter to pull his hair,
to which the latter replied, "You want a good deal but you ,are
such a good fighter that I will do it." The column ragain :floated
(no other word quite describes the effect) out to about the -same
position as before; Dudley's hair was again pulled in the same
way and with the same certainty as at first, then Brown's hair was-
pulled, also without any sign of fumbling. Brown was leaning
f<;mward so that his head was above and approximately in line with
those of Dudley and DeWyckoff". 'rhe luminous column again di~­
appeared in the cabinet, fading gradually until it disappeared. '
This fading was unifoqn, not as though·there had been ·a reduction
in its dimensions, but merely a change in luminosity. The voice,
as it came from the vicinity Of the upper end of this luminous
column, sounded as though it was produced in something approxi-
552 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
mating a normal vocal apparatus; it had overtones that are not
usually heard in the Walter voice, whether produced with or with-
out the use of the small fiber megaphone.] 6
Then came interesting conversation between Alice and Walter
and their voices overlapped at least fifty times during the sitting.
Alice seemed to be rather pert and up to date in slang, quite differ-
ent from the nervousness of Cartheuser. She used such expressions
as "betcha quarter" ; "hold your horses" and then speaking of
somebody having died, Alice said, ''she flew the coop didn't she?''
Walter said to Alice, "What do I say about this bunch when I
get back from a sitting?" Alice replied, "Once you said, 'That's
a -- of a bunch.' '' Then Walter said, ''Alice, you better go home
now, you're getting all tired out and you're putting my nose out of
joint. Goodnight, darling." 'l'hen Alice said, "Goodnight."
During the sitting Alice would not allow anyone to stand up,
saying that he scared Cartheuser, making him think something was
going to be done to him, and she commented about ''that man who
keeps stretching his neck out, make him keep it back." This
referred to Dr. Brown, who, from his place behind the circle, kept
putting his head between those of Cartheuser and Hill.
Throughout this seance Dr. Brown maintained a continuous
but unobtrusive contact with Cartheuser, seeking any indica-
tions that the latter might be making normal use of his vocal
cords while Hill reported continuous control of the latter's left
hand, and was certain that Cartheuser did not leave his chair.
The voices which were heard did not present the slightest evi-
dence of the pronounced lisp which characterizes Cartheuser's
normal speech. Walter's voice, as indicated above, seemed far
more like a normal male voice than at any other seance; while
the s€ance action was marked by a greater freedom of move-
ment on the part of the ''control'' than is usually the case. There
was no indication that anyone was normally free in the circle;
while the luminous phenomena accompanying or preceding tele-
kinetic activities were strongly indicative of supernormal
functioning.
* * * *
Instead of setting the following brief reports apart ·in an-
other chapter it seems desirable to include them at this point,
noting that they have to do with the sittings held at various
places in the United States and Canada during the vacation trip
MISCELLANEOUS EPISODES OF· LATE 1926 553
of December, 1926. This trip was broken up by stops at many
cities ~here friends of the Crandons had asked them to call,
and was punctuated with several lectures.
The first stop was at Cincinnati, where alecture was given,
A lecture was scheduled at Chicago, and a s-Gance was given
at the home of Mr. H. H. Riddle, on December 6th, at
which some twenty-one persons were present, many of them
connected with the faculty of Chicago University. The fol-
lowing record is by Crandon, and is a condensed account of a
somewhat standardized seance marked by a great deal of
conversation by Walter. A combined report was presented by
three of the sitters, testifying to the completeness of the search
of the medium, the fact of strict control of Crandon and Margery
during··certain luminous phenomena, and the freedom and exact-
. ness with which Walter functioned. Crandon's report follows:
Walt-er came through in good form, though the surrounding,;
were entirely strange. The cabinet consisted of a three-way screen,
and the control was exercised by two professors. Despit-e all this
and despite the critics who declare that Lime Street and the alleged
trick apparatus therein are necessary to Margery's phenomena,
the sitting went forward with brilliant success.
Psychic lights floated about the cabinet and came out of it
toward each sitter, and not only the seven in the circle but all others
in the room saw them. The bell-box was rung intermittently in
red light, while several sitters, one after another, lifted it and
turned it around 360 degrees. It was then examined in the same
period of red light and no normal explanation discovered. A lumi-
nous paper ring or "doughnut" was put on the table and Walter's
teleplasmic terminal was seen grasping it and then levitating it
all about, high and low in all directions. It was then put on the
floor, on the side of the table away from the Psychic, and ·walter
lifted it from the floor up to three feet above the table top, all
under conditions of strict control by strangers.
·walter then made cognitions of personal objects put on the
table by sitters, with 100 per cent success. After this Walter
opened a ''forum'' and answered question of sitters with his usual
wit and wisdom.
From Chicago, the Crandons proceeded to the Pacific Coast;
and one of the places where they were entertained was at the
residence of Stewart Edward White, the novelist, in Burlin-
:554 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
game. Two very informal and friendly seances were given
here, on December 15th and 16th. Crandon prepared a brief
record covering the two occasions, which is given herewith:
Control was maintained throughout by White and Mrs. White,
one on each side. Walter came through promptly and in good
spirits. Great sheets of mobile teleplasm appeared waving about,
at one time simulating a complete head. The mass, which was self
luminous, crossed the table, touched one sitter after another, pulled
the hair of each on request. .A mass of it piled itself on a photo-
graph plate placed on the table. The results of this will be reported
later.
The luminous ''doughnut'' was levitated all about under strict
conditions of control and Walter's hand could be easily seen by all,
doing the trick. The doughnut then fell on the floor and there in
view of all, could be see~ the teleplasmic terminal picking up the
luminous ring and lifting it 4lf2 feet from the floor to high above
the table.
The Scientific .American bell-box was now brought into action.
In good red light, Walter rang the bell-box, with irregular in-
.. termittency, while the box was handed about the room from one
sitter's hands to another's, several .of them turning 360 degrees
while holding it; It was then examined by all in the same period
of good red light. ' ·.·
The sitters were keenly critical but were also intellectually
honest and free. No previous convictions or philosophy of a life-
time stood in the way of obvious and well-observed facts.
Walter talked at considerable length with White. It is in-
teresting to observe the points of contact and agreement between
Walter's philosophy and that of.White's "Credo."
The next stop was at Winnipeg, where Dr. Hamilton has
been working with several mediums for a number of years,
and getting most interesting results, some of which are referred
to in Chaper XLVIII. Hamilton has an enviable reputation
in the medical and surgical world, and has exhibited many of
his photographs of seance-room phenomena to the members of
a recent Medical Congress in Winnipeg. It was a foregone
conclusion that a trip to Winnipeg meant sittings there, and
three were held : on December 21st, 22d and 23d, in various
premises. Hamilton was present at each and made careful
records, which he has been good enough to contribute to the
present volume. This chapter, which is complete in itself,
follows the present one, but before closing this account it is
)
MISCELLANEOUS EPISODES OF· LATE 1926 555
necessary to note the fact that a sitting was held at Niagara
Falls, on December 26th, for old friends and relatives. Cran-
don's memorandum is all that is available and is given below:
Walter came_ through promptly, greeted everyone, and then pro-
ceeded to produce a large mass of luminous teleplasm. He levitated
the doughnut :freely and rang the bell-box as it was carried around
the room by different sitters, each turning through 360 degrees.
Hardwicke13 was present, but no attempt was made to differ-
entiate between him and Margery as possible sources of the
phenomena, and it is not recorded whether or not he became
entranced. On the following evening, in Buffalo, he was not
present; but the phenomena appear to have been quite as good:
Walter came through in excellent spirits and greeted .us all by
name. Then, besides the usual display of levitation, a great sheet
of luminous teleplasm was developed :four :feet high by four inches
wide. Then came a new phenomenon: the luminous teleplasm
was piled on the table in a kind of cone near a sheet of blank
paper. On the paper, now thus illuminated,· could be seen a per-
fectly :formed hand in the act of writing. ·The controlof _the hands
of both the Psychic and her husband was perfeat duri:rig· all this
period. When the sitting closed a poem of ·no mean· q~a}ity was
found, written and dedic-ated to Mrs. Mary Gray, whose eighty-
eighth birthday was next day.
This vacation trip served to bring a change of scene to Mar-
gery and Crandon, while permitting many people to ~ee phe-
nomena in new surroundings. It does not appear that the
difference in location was disadvantageous; on the· contrary,
the presence of new and interested groups seems to have acted
as a stimulant. The apparent fact that not a few of'the sitters
in one or another of these seances had shown evid~nce of pos-
sessing psychic energy may have been a contributing factor
in the successes which are noted.
1a See Chapters XLI, XLII.
CHAPTER XLVIII
Margery in Winnipeg
Three Seances of December, 1926
By T. Glen Hamilton, M.D.
It is safe to say, probably,.that no phenomell:a observed for
many years have excited so widespread an interest, nor pro-
voked so much controversy as those observed in the presence
of the Boston medium, Margery. As students of psychics are
aware, observers of these phenomena are usually found in three
divisions: :first, those who declare the phenomena to be con-
sciously fraudulent ; second, those who declare them uncon-
sciously deceptive, and third, those who consider them to be
not only absolutely genuine, but also to be among the most
brilliant ever recorded in the history of metapsychic science.
It is with the hope of assisting those who have not as yet had
the privilege of sitting with Margery, to decide to which class
the phenomena belong that I present a brief report of three
sittings given in Winnipeg, December 21, 22 and 23, 1926.
Before proceeding to give this report, a brief resume of my
own experiences in the field of metapsychics is perhaps
advisable. ·
My interest in this subject dates back now many years, in
fact to the time when the early writings .of W. T. Stead :first
appeared in the English Review of Reviews. Following this,
for some years, I remained what might be called an interested
sceptic but through reading came, gradually, to hold the opinion
that here was a field demanding investigation and hoped that
some day I should find both opportunities and leisure for such
experimentation. The opportunities, although delayed, finally
came. In 1918 and 1919, I came in contact for the first time
with a number of mediums-more or less developed-who gave
me the privilege of closely studying the phenomena manifesting
556
MARG.ERY IN WINNIPEG 557
through their various psychic faculties; among these, autom-
atisms, clairvoyance, thought-transference and telepathy. As
the majority of these phenomena appeared to be unexplainable
by the theories offered by orthodox science, my attention was
increasingly directed to the literature on this subject-particu-
larly to .the books written from tbe more scientific point of view,
such as the writings of Myers, Lodge, Barrett, Flammarion,
Crawford, Schrenck-Notzing-to mention only a few of the
eminent authorities in the :field of research.
The outstanding event in my psychical research experience,
however, occurred in May, 1921, when it was my good fortune
to discover signs of incipient physical mediumship in a woman
I had known for many years and whom we shall call Elizabeth
M, and to be given the privilege of developing these faculties
under conditions of my own choosing. Three months later,
I began definite experimentation, my interest centering par-
ticularly in the physical phenomena which from the .first were
unusually powerful and sustained. These experiments-as
already mentioned-were conducted wholly under conditions of
my own choice; in my own home; in a room set apart for the
purpose; with witnesses chosen largely from the members of
my own and other professions; and at all times under the closest
possible scrutiny and control. Under these conditions, then,
the Elizabeth M mediumship was from its inception steadily
progressive.
For the :first two years we observed and experimented with
powerful contact movements, raps, blows, non-contact move-
ments, levitation (both with and without contact), clairvoyance.
Early in 1923, the deep trance supervened, accompanied by
veridical automatisms both hallucinatory and motor. A little
later we were able to obtain wax impressions of a number of
ectoplasmic forms (parts of :fing:ers and toes) and even suc-
ceeded in securing a few examples of what is known as ''direct
writing." I may remark also, that we were enabled to secure
many photographic records of these telekinetic phenomena and
as well of the various phases and degrees of trance-two types
of phenomena in which I have been greatly interested.
558 MARGERY l\IIEDIUMSHIP
):twill be seen then, that through the study of this medium-
ship-continuing now over a period of six years and numbering
many hundreds of experiments-we have had unusual oppor-
tunities for gaining considerable knowledge of the three main
types of psychical manifestations-telekinesis, ectoplasm, crypt-
esthesia. Needless to say their reality-to me, at any rate-
is unquestionable.
The second important milestone in my study of metapsychics
was my introduction in October, 1925, to the much-discussed
"Margery" mediumship. I was at this time on my way to
Philadelphia to attend a surgical convention, and remained over
at Boston in the hope that I might obtain the privilege of
attending a few sittings with this well-known medium. With
that splendid hospitality which so many have enjoyed, Dr. and
Mrs. Crandon invited me not only to attend a number of sit-
tings, but also to become their guest-an invitation which I
gladly accepted. Previous to this time, I had known Dr. Cran-
don both through his writings on surgical subjects and as a
Harvard clinician, and was now indeed delighted to :find in the
psychic researcher as true a scientist as had been manifest
in the eminent surgeon. During my stay in Boston, I attended
in all eight sittings and saw, under satisfactory control, many
of the brilliant phenomena associated with this medium. I wit-
nessed, repeatedly, successful manipulations of the ''dough-
nut,'' apparently by a teleplasmic terminal; I observed the
intermittent ringing· of the Scientific American bell-box in good
red light, without any visible contact; and as well I saw and
·felt ectoplasmic structures which to my mind were undoubtedly
of psychic origin. In addition, I was privileged to take part
in a tete-a-tete test with Dr. Richardson's justly famous voice-
cut-out machine, and found it to be absolutely fraud-proof and
100 per cent effective in proving the independence of the
"Walter" voice. I witnessed as well a number of other suc-
cessful tests with this machine. At one of these sittings, I wit-
nessed also one of the most arresting incidents in my research
experiences : a trance so profound that the medium's respira-
')
MARGERY IN WINNIPEG 559
tions were reduced to six to the minute. To the layman, perhaps,
this is of little significance but to one accustomed to watching
for signs of danger in deep anesthesia, an occurrence of this
nature is indeed an exceedingly alarming one. Undoubtedly
this affords a very strong additional proof of the genuineness
of the Margery mediumship.
This, then, very briefly reviews my somewhat unusual oppor-
tunities for rrietapsychic study and experimentation-a resume
which brings me now to Dr. and Mrs. Crandon's visit to Winni-
peg (which transpired during a holiday trip across the con-
tinent to the Pacific Coast and back by way of Canada) December
21 to 24, 1926.
FIRST SITTING
Dr. and Mrs. Crandon after five days of continuous traveling
arrived in Winnipeg at 5 :30 in the afternoon of December 21st,
and after a short stay at their hotel came to dinner at our
home where a number of guests were present to meet them.
Following dinner, Mrs. Crandon consented to give a sitting and
those present, seventeen exclusive of Margery and her husband,
were kindly invited by Dr. Crandon to attend.
The room in which this sitting took place is situated on
the second floor and has, for the past four years, been used
as a laboratory for conducting experiments with the local me-
dium, Elizabeth M. This room is about ten by twelve and has
two windows and one door, the windows being closed to exchide
white light by coverings of builder's paper securely fastened
to the inside window casings by wooden strips, and the door
opening into a hallway in plain view of a large open stairway.
The seance. furnishings consist of an open wooden cabinet, a
deal table (after Crawford), wooden chairs, cameras, flashlight
apparatus, ventilating fan, and other equipment which need not
at this time be enumerated.
Margery's preparations for the sitting were simple but ade:..
quate. Accompanied by Mrs. Hamilton, she retired to a bed-
room where she removed all her clothing, putting on a bath~
robe which we supplied and replacing her stockings and slippers
560 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
after they had been carefully scrutinized. Mrs. Hamilton
affirms that there was nothing concealed about Margery's per-
son. Margery was then escorted to the seance room which, it
should be noted, she had neither seen nor entered before.
The medium having been placed in the cabinet, a circle was
formed to her right as follows: Dr. Crandon, Dr. N.J. MacLean,
Dr. J. A. Hamilton, Mr. E. L. Taylor, Mr. D. B. McDonald, Mrs.
Cummings, Dr. T. G. Hamilton, and "Elizabeth M." The ten
other persons present sat immediately behind this circle, many
of them between it and the door. Among these were Mr. W. J.
Cummings, Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Mullineaux, and Mrs. T. G.
Hamilton. It will be seen by this arrangement that Margery's
left hand and ·Elizabeth M. 's two were available for control
by myself and her right and Dr. Crandon's two by Dr. MacLean.
This control was established and maintained.
The lights having been turned off, and the music (gramo-
phone) started, Margery in about three or four minutes went
into trance; in about two minutes a voice which can only be
described as a hoarse stage-whisper was heard issuing appar-
ently from a position somewhere near the medium and about the
level of her shoulder or slightly lower. This, of course, we knew
to be the voice which purports to be that of the medium's
deceased brother-the now famous ''Walter.''
Dr. Crandon, after introducing "vValter" to the company,
reminded him that he was now in his native country; to this
Walter replied with several expressions of appreciation of the
"Canucks"-as he called them-a slang term with which most
Canadians are familiar. Dr. Crandon then further remarked
that he understood that vValter, many years before, had been
in Winnipeg and it would be interesting if he ("\iValter")
would tell them something of his experienc<:) at that time.
vValter at once replied: "That was a long time back-I
was only eighteen at the time. I did not stop in vVinnipeg
but went on ·. . 0 Lord! where did I go to ~ Minnedosa-
that 's it. I was on a threshing machine; I remember that it
was.a good wheat country.'' He went on to say that he surely
MARGERY IN WINNIPEG 561
ought to go to heaven as he had worked for twenty hours out
of the twenty-four, for $1.2'5, per day. He also asked if there
wasn't a place called Selkirk and said that he had been there
for a short time.
To the Manitobans present these remarks of \iValter's were
very interesting. The names of the two towns were given cor-
rectly. His statement that Minnedosa (about one hundred and
thirty miles from the city) was in a good ·wheat country was
also correct. The ''old-timers,'' however, were even more im-
pressed by Walter's apparent knowledge of the long working·
day which at one time (corresponding largely to the time
indicated by Walter's alleged age when he came ·west) fre-
quently prevailed during the rush of the threshing season.
Wages were, of course, much lower then than now and the
amount mentioned by Walter would, I believe, be considered
at that time a usual wage for a young and inexperienced lad.
It is to be noted that Dr. and Mrs. Crandon having always lived
in the East would in all probability know nothing of these locali-
ties and of the labor conditions of this time.
Walter now asked for the "doughnut"-the luminous card-
board ring-and it was placed on the table in the center of the
circle. In a few moments the doughnut was lifted above the
table and for some time continued to circle freely about, being
carried directly in front of several of the sitter's faces. These
said they could see the dark terminal coming through the open-
ing. ·walter remarked that it had been compared to a rat's
nose. During the whole time occupied by this manifestation,
I was careful to observe that Margery's left hand, ~long wiUi
Elizabeth M. 's two, was under my certain control. Dr. MacLean
said from time to time that his double control was also satis-
factory.
Xhe famous bell-box had been brought by the medium from
Boston. Immediately before the sitting it had been carefully
examined in bright light by many of those present. It was
now placed on the table and the full ruby light turned on,
Margery could be plainly seen sitting motionless in the cabinet
562 1\ILA.RGERY l\IIEDIUMSHIP
· with her head resting gently to one side. Walter continued to
speak at intervals. Then came the amazing proof of the pres-
ence of an independent intelligent force: Three men in turn,
Dr. MacLean, Dr. J . A. Hamilton, and Mr. E. L. Taylor, took the
box in their hands, rose to their feet, turned slowly a complete
revolution, the bell meanwhile ringing intermittently. With the
fourth to repeat the procedure, Mr. D. B. McDonald, who was
farthest from the medium the bell rang only during the first
part of his revolution. The ringing of the bell started and
stopped in good red light.
Following this experiment the reel light was turned off, and
Walter continued talking. Suddenly he announced, "I'm going
to keep in the backgrouncl-:-this other medium. is going intq
trance.'' This was found to be the case and shortly the writing
automatism peculiar to "Elizabeth M.'' made its appearance.
,. Margei;y in the meantime remained in trance; ·walter con~
tinueq to talk and among his remarks were many witty
comments on the "Elizabeth M." phenomena. These latter com-
ments, I may say, were not only exceedingly humorous but as
well were undoubtedly based.on an accurate knowledge of the
"E. M." trance manifestations, for he used repeatedly two
nicknames occasionally applied by E. M. while in h~ance to
two of her trance personalities-names which she did not use
herself on this occasion, and which were certainly not known
to either Margery or Dr. Crandon.
Following his work with the two mediums, Walter's ability
to use the teleplasmic terminal was further demonstrated, as
well as his ability to cognize in the dark-by finding two pencils
which ''E. .M.'' had flung on the floor while entranced. The
first pencil Dr. MacLean said he felt Walter trying to place in
his outside breast pocket. He failed, however, because there was
no such pocket; Dr. MacLean was wearing a dinner jacket. ·This
Walter presently discovered, remarking disgustedly, ''This man
has no pockets." The pencil fell. Dr. MacLean picked it up
and found it to have been accurately described as to its point,
eraser, size, etc. The second pencil he said he would ''stick in
MARGERY IN WINNIPEG 563
the crack" (of the cabinet), but at my request he placed it in
my hand. This also was accurately described.
The latter part of the sitting was taken up by Walter answer-
ing many questions from various sitters regarding his alleged
present environment and general moral and ethical problems.
Walter's answers were both interesting and thought-provoking.
Second Sitting
The second ''Margery'' sitting in Winnipeg took place on
the evening of the 22nd, immediately following a dinner in Dr.
and Mrs. Crandon's honor given by Mr. Isaac Pitblado, K.C.,
LL.D., and his wife at the Manitoba Club, and was held in the
same seance room as the one of the preceding evening·.
Margery, as at the first sitting, disrobed and put on a dress-
ing gown in the presence of· Mrs. Hamilton. After taking her
place in the cabinet, the sitters were placed from her right in
the following order: Dr. Crandon, Dr. R. J. Blanchard, Dr. A.
Gibson, Mr. Hugh Reed, Mr. Isaac Pitblado, Dr. J. D. Adamson,
Dr. T. G. Hamilton, "Elizabeth M.'' Fifteen other observers
were seated or standing about the room, among whom were :
Rev. E. G. D. Freeman, Dr. and Mrs. Creighton, Dr. and Mrs.
E. A. Jones, Miss Edith Lawrence, Mrs. Harold Shand, Mr.
W. B. Cooper, Mrs. Hamilton and Miss Margaret Hamilton.
Double control on the right was exercised by Dr. Blanchard;
I again acted as controller on the left.
Walter came through in about two minutes, whistling and
talking and among others was introduced to the doctors present,
to Mr. James Leslie, for many years a member of both the Brit-
ish and American Psychic Research Societies; and to Mr. Pit-
blado, K.C., our dinner host. Walter in his inimitable style,
chatted and joked with -each in turn.
The first phenomenon manifested was one which had not
appeared at the previous sitting-a brilliant display of luminous
teleplasm. For a report on this I shall here rely on signed prog-
ress notes made by Miss E. Lawrence, who has frequently
564 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
during the past four years acted as recorder for the ''Elizabeth
M." phenomena. These notes follow:
Dr. Crandon: ''Don't be tense-relax, Walter likes an easy
atmospher€ . . ''
A psychic light appeared and moved about. Walter said it
came from the medium's head. Walter called it his "celestial
garment." It came first as a small oval-shaped body of about three
inches length. It increased in length gradually to about four feet
long and two or three inches wide. It moved constantly, though
sometimes laid on the table. It undulated and billowed-wavered
like nortl1ern lights. Walter said: "Keep your €ye on it, it will
look like moonlight. It is what ghosts' garments are made of.''
Someone asked, ''Is it visible to you, Walter¥'' Walter said ·
"I see it in a differ€nt way. It is as real to me as this cabinet
(he knocked the cabinet wall) is to you." This light moved about
for about ten minutes and then gradually disappeared.
Faint moans were occasionally heard from the medium dur-
ing this manifestation. This display was intently watched by
the twenty-three observers in the room-the objective nature of
the phenomenon being beyond question.
The next experiment was the ''doughnut'' manipulation
which presented several features not given on the previous even-
ing. Again we quote from Miss Lawrence's notes:
It appeared to rise slowly from the table, passing close to the
face of some of the sitters. Some said they saw the black terminal
of teleplasm coming through the opening. Then Dr. B. ask€d,
"Could be take it off my head?" Walter said, "Put your nose
on the table." He did so. Dr. Crandon put the doughnut on
Dr. B.'s head and in a second or two it was seen to mov€. Dr. B.
said it felt like something hard. . All the time Dr. B. had
hold of Dr. C.'s two hands and Margery's right. Then Mr. P.
asked if he would pull his hair. Walter: "Put your nose in the
doughnut on the table." Soon Mr. P. said, "H€ pulled my hair
but it did not hurt." . . . Then Walter asked Dr. B. to put a
fifty-cent piece in the hole in the doughnut on the table. Almost
immediately the doughnut was slightly elevated and some raps were
made as if with the edge of the coin. Walter : ''Is that your
money, Dr. B.¥ I'll prove it to you"-and the money dropped to
the :floor with a typical jangling sound of a coin.
Walter now asked for the bell-box; this was placed on the
table. Before going on to detail this experiment I may say
that among others, Mr. Hugh A. Reed-a highly-trained elec-
MARGERY IN WINNIPEG 565-
trical engineer, carefully examined the box in bright light and
pronounced it fraud-proof, so far as electrical tricks were con-
cerned. This of course means that the bell can only be rung
by depressing the flapper or by bringing to the box an external
physical means for short-circuiting it. With this we will again
turn to Miss Lawrence's notes:
The red light was turned on so all could see the box. Walter
asked Dr. B. to take the box in his hands. He held it a moment,
watched the flapper moving up and clown, the bell keeping up an
intermittent ringing. Dr. B. now while holding the box turned
around in a complete circle once. Then he passed the box to Dr. G.
who likewise made a complete rotation. He handed it to Mr. R.
who repeated the rotation and handed it to Dr. Adamson and Dr.
A. to Mr. P., each of them rotating· in a similar manner. Mr. P .
placed the box on the table. All the while it was intermittently
ringing.
After the bell-box experiment, Walter talked for some time-
joking, teasing and one might say "preaching." He closed the
seance with these words:
"Continue your work; get an interest in psychic research ;
you will some day have a scientific religion. Good night! God
bless you.''
Immediately after the sitting, in a room adjoining the seance
room, Margery removed her dressing gown, stockings and shoes
under the close scrutiny of Mrs. Hamilton and Miss Kenneth
Haig-the latter one of the best-known lady journalists in
Western Canada. They found nothing whatever concealed
about her person.
Third Sitting
The third and last Margery sitting in ·winnipeg, while both
brief and informal, was in some of its aspects quite as arrest-
ing as the two preceding ones. This sitting was held at the
residence of Mr. and Mrs. Pitblado during a small impromptu
gathering of social nature which had been arranged after Dr.
Crandon's lecture at the Fort Garry Hotel on the evening of
December 23rd.
After an hour devoted to chatting and refreshments in the
drawing room, our hostess, Mrs. Pitblado-some time after
566 MARGERY 1\IIEDIUl\IISHIP
midnight-suggested that we see whether or not "vValter" could
speak to us under such informal conditions. Margery signified
her willingness to "try" and in a few moments, after a few
preliminary arrangements such as securing a small table,
arranging chairs in a corner of the dining room, the circle was
formed.
Eleven people, including Dr. and Mrs. Crandon, sat in the
group and in the following order to the right of the medium:
Dr. Crandon, Mrs. Hamilton, Mrs. P., Miss P., Mr. P., Mrs.
Shand, Mr. W. R. Cottingham, Mrs. C., Dr. T. G. Hamilton,
"Elizabeth M."; Margery. Double control on the right in this
instance fell to Mrs. Hamilton ·while I as before exercised double
control on the left.
The trance came on within a few minutes after the light was
turned off and Walter quickly came through. He chatted for
a moment or two-among other things remarking that he had
not bothered to attend the lecture, and then said: "Well, what
do you want me to do; I can't do anything if you don't give me
something to play with.'' The hostess then procured a glass
dinner bell which was placed on the table in the center of the
circle. The bell was at once carried out beyond the table, now
to this side and now to that: one could easily determine its
position by its sound. Often it was heard under the table tap-
ping on the wood. Walter would from time to time joke ·and
chuckle and say, ''Catch it if you can.'' Having only the one
"plaything" Walter was, of course, limited to this one type
of physical phenomena. I was extremely careful to verify my
control of Margery's hand during this manifestation. Mrs.
Hamilton also declared her control to be positive.
I may say that the voice phenomenon was at this sitting
unusually impressive: here we were a small group sitting
quietly in a room which the medium had entered for the :first
time only a few moments before; with no music; no cabinet;
no equipment of any kind; and yet the ''voice'' was undoubtedly
a reality. At times it was difficult indeed to realize that onr
experience lay without the bounds of the normal.
· I have now witnessed the Margery phenomena eleven times:
MARGERY IN WINNIPEG 567
eight times in the Lime Street seance room under conditions
of careful control; twice in my own experimental room also
under positive control; and once in the home of an acquaintance
(third Winnipeg sitting) under arrangements entirely im-
promptu-and in each instance typical Margery phenomena
occurred.
Considered objectively, two conditions only were common
to these three environments-the presence of the psychic (Mar-
gery) and the absence of white light. From this it is to be seen,
then, that apart from these two requisites, the Margery phe-
nomena are in no wise dependent on any particular or prepared
surroundings. This being the case, we have obtained strong
additional proof of the genuineness of this mediumsliip. I have
no hesitancy in again stating that I am quite convinced that the
Margery phenomena are not only genuine but are also among
the most brilliant yet recorded in the history of metapsychic
science.
CHAPTER XLIX
Telekinesis of Early 1927
The number of sittings per month given by Margery rose
to a maximum in 19'24, then decreased quite rapidly during the
years 1926 and 19r27.
There were several reasons why this should have been the
case. During the early days of the mediumship the phenomena
underwent almost continuous modification; their evolution was
most interesting, and, not infrequently, of a startling nature.
But after the rapid evolutionary period had passed and the
study of the phenomena had entered its more critical phase, it
became evident that very frequent sittings were neither desir-
able nor necessary. It was also apparent that there was a
relationship between the results obtained and the amount of
energy that the sitters and the medium could contribute.1
vValter insisted on rest periods, and there were many indications
that these were necessary and beneficial.
With the beginnings of a more intensive study of a few
phenomena it soon became clear that the introduction of large
and varied groups of sitters, many of whom had or might have
only a casual interest in the effects displayed, retarded the
more important scientific work. Walter said, on more than one
occasion, "I can't convince the whole world one at a time.
Someone has got to take somebody's word for something.'' He
quite frankly discounted the value of the so-called ''educational
seances'' and suggested that more attention be given to scien-
tific work. Thus, whenever it became necessary or desirable
to present phenomena to a group of sitters who were not well
acquainted with the more intricate problems of research,2
he
1 Geley noted that the sitters are an important factor in the production of good'
phenomena: See Introduction, Clain;oyanoe and JI!Iate?·ialization; also his comments
on investigators, and the energetic factors of physical mediumship. See, also,
Expe1·i1nents in Psyohioal Soienoe, by W. J. Crawford, p. 131.
2 Attempts to bring these phenomena to the attention of pm·sons who, however
highly placed, wm·e neither well informed nor experiencecl in tl1e field of meta-
psychics, resulted in much the same sort of destructive criticism as that described
by earlier investigators in this field.
568
'rELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 569
-tended to focus on a few of the effects vvhich were spoken of
.as constituting the ''standardized seance.'' Such seances
included the glass-cabinet control with telekinesis, and subse-
quent telekinetic and voice tests in the open cabinet under
·tactual control.3
The necessity for the rigid tiresome control of the glass
-cabinet with its inevitable delays, began to disappear as the
more experienced investigators insisted that it was no longer
necessary; that it had established the fact that supernormal
phenomena ·were produced. Nevertheless, the glass cabinet was
used for occasional sittings, where extreme rigidity of control
was deemed essential, until·late in 1929.
It is obvious that an evolutionary development of the phe-
nomena may, quite properly, be accompanied by a change in the
method of control. Such changes have been ·made from time
to time4
in accordance with the established policy of the students
·of the mediumship; which is to obtain the important phenomena
. under different conditions of control, so as to learn whether or
not these phenomena are conditioned by such methods. The first
change in control, following the introduction of the glass cab-
inet, was the addition of surgeon's tape to the wire ties. This
was, in a sense, a by-product but it developed into a standardized
.control for certain test sittings held both in and out of Lime
Street.
With the introduction of more intensive experimental pro-
grams, such as the baryta tests, the cross-correspondences and
the finger prints,5
Walter found it inadvisable to expend much
time or ·energy on the simpler telekinetic phenomena. But
when these special programs were finished or were in tempo-
rary abeyance, telekinetic phenomena were often presented,
either incidentally or as a major part of the seance.
Most of the seances immediately following the return from
the western vacation were given over to general subjects; the
first two, however, were scheduled for a continuation of the
s See section on control, Chapters XXV and XXIX.
4 E.g., Driesch 's control with luminous-head pins.
s Which will be treated i- a later volume.
570 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
baryta tests. The sitting of January 6, 1927, was of this latter
type but Walter found it impossible to do more than make cer-
tain preparations; hence, most of the seance was devoted to
conversation which revolved very largely about the incidents of
the recently completed trip, Walter's reactions to some of the
amusing incidents, and comments on some of his early experi-
ences in the vicinity of Winnipeg. The early part of the sitting_
involved some interesting telekinetic action that was so spon-
taneous and characteristic of Walter that it deserves inclusion.
The Psychic was secured in the glass cabinet as to wrists and
collar by Richardson and Dudley. (The feet were not secured since
they would not enter into any action in connection with the pro-
posed Baryta test.) The standard, to which the armored tube
connected to the wash bottle was attached, was fastened to the
shelf in the cabinet with a wooden clamp (carpenter 's clamp) at
the Psychic's extreme right, so that the end of the tube was well
beyond the extr-eme reach of her head.
Walter came through promptly and commented on the arrange-
ments, saying, ''The shelf is all right for Mark when he doesn't
have to make a precipitate (in the Barium H ydrate sol. ), for
he doesn't have to stand here, but I've got to stand somewhere.
When I come into physical matter I have to have some place
to work; perhaps not so much as when I had my physical body,
but some space, and this shelf gets in the way. I don't care if it
(the equipment) is farther away. That doesn't matter so long
as I have room to g.et around.''
Dudley removed the shelf and clamped the standard to the
table so that the clamp would come close to the outer side of
the arm of the Psychic's chair, if the table were pushed well
into the cabinet. This was done in dim red light, after which
the light was turn-ed out. The flexible tube had a ring of luminous
paint near its tip to aid in marking its location. This ring was
repeatedly eclipsed while it was quite outside of Margery's reach.
After some further conversation, Walter said : '' 'rhere is too
much apparatus here; I don't need it all. When you work with
apparatus you want it as simple as possible, don't you ~ '' Dudley:
''Of course.'' Walt-er: '' vVell, I don't need all of this and I am
going· to change it.'' The table vibrated strongly at intervals,
accompanied by squeaks as of wood rubbing on wood. Shortly
thereafter Walter said : "I am going to hand you something,
Dudley.'' The latter held his left hand open above the outer
edge of the table ;ua. th-e wooden clamp was placed exactly in his
M A small table with two legs shorter than the others so the top would be
level wl1en t he short legs rested on the floo1· of the glass cabinet and the other
legs were outside the cabinet.
TELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 571
hand-in proper position to be grasped-and without the slightest
fumbling. Walter: "Got it?" Dudley: "Yes." Walter: "All
right. Ha, Ha! I didn't need that so I took it off. It got in
my way." (The clamp had been set up very firmly at the time
the apparatus was arranged, as noted above.) The nature of the
sounds and the manner in which the table vibrated, as interpreted
by Dudley, whose hand was resting on the table, indicated that
the clamp had been worked from side to side until it was finally
released; an operation necessitating the application of considerable
force, first in one direction and then in the other but parallel to
the Psychic's body. The position of the clamp was such that the
Psychic's right knee might have contacted the side of the wooden
clamping screw but not in a manner to move the clamp away from
the adjacent side of the cabinet, since there was not enough space
to permit the insertion of a knee. The screw was not backed off
because no sound was heard such as must have been made if that
had been done; while a test after the sitting showed that the setting
was unchanged. It is Dudley's opinion that it was not everi theo-
retically possible to move the clamp transversely by pressure applied
to the wooden screw without breaking the screw. Therefore, it
seems apparent that since the Psychic had no free hand she could
not have removed the clamp by normal means. These facts, taken
in connection with the exact placement in Dudley's hand in the
dark, constitute strong evidence of supernormal telekinetic action
accompanied by a marked expenditure of energy. Dudley's posi-
tion at one end of the table, and Mrs. Richardson's at the other
end, gave the former a very complete control of the locus of the
phenomenon; sufficient to warrant him in stating that there was
no interference from the circle.6
A few moments later Walter said to Dudley, "Did you feel
that?" Dudley: "No, what was it~" Walter: "Did you feel
the table vibrate 7" Dudley put his hand on the table and felt
a curious vibration, not a hammering but as though the table
throbbed. Walter continued, "Put your ear down to the table."
Dudley did so but heard nothing and said so. Then there came
a peculiar rhythmic throb which continued for 10 or 12 seconds,
and sounded as though it was in the body of the wood ; as though
the whole table were in vibration. This was repeated at intervals
while Richardson, Mrs. Richardson, and Crandon felt the vibration.
Walter, in explanation, said : ''I am charging the table ; I have
to recharge everything. It [the psychic energy n has leaked out
during the last month.'' There followed the conversation noted
in the introductory remarks, and the seance closed at 10 :35 P.M.
6 In any event, application of the necessary force from a point outside the
cabinet would have tended to overturn the table or move it outward, .unless someone
stood practically against the outer edge of the table. No one did stand there, and
there was no such tendency or movement of the table.-E. E. D.
.572 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The seance of January 17th was given over entirely to con-
versation, although preparations had been made for finger
prints. That of the 18th resulted in prints in wax and on paper,
while that of the 24th was a glass cabinet sitting (in part),
.and is reported below:
Margery was secured in the cabinet in the standard manner
(see Chapter XXV) by Dudley and Dunning, under the super-
vision of the various new sitters who were present. Walter cor-
rectly identified three or four wooden letters that were presented
in the large basket, after which this same basket was passed for
''the collection,'' 8 and he identified at least six articles, among
which was a half-dollar that he called a half-crown. He then
asked for the small basket (the one with a circular base, which he
is accustomed to rock on the shelf in the glass cabinet) and Crandon
handed him the small basket that had been used for levitations.
Judging from the movements of the luminous markers on the
handle of the basket, Walter tried to rock it on the shelf, but with-
out success. It went to the floor three times, and was replaced
by one of the sitters, was turned end for end several times while
on the shelf, and, finally, Walter asked what was wrong with it.
Crandon suggested that it had become deformed; whereupon Walter
picked it up and hammered it violently on the shelf; tried to rock
it again, and then exclaimed in a most disgusted tone of voice,
'Where 's my little baskeU 0
'l'his is the old one and it's sqttare!
What's the idea1 Find the other basket.' ' The other one could
not be found so Walter contented himself with levitating the small
''square'' basket.10
'l'he VCO test was completed in the glass cabinet with marked
success, while Dunning controlled the apparatus. The ties were
carefully checked and found undisturbed, and the Psychic was cut
free, the sitting continuing in the old cabinet, with Dunning con-
trolling at the left and Crandon at the right. The (S..A..) bell-box
was engineered by Dunning, who carried it to the west book-case
and back, after it had rung intermittently while held by Mrs.
Murray. When Dunning replaced the box on the table he turned
back the flapper and inspected the contacts in white light (the red
light having been on throughout). The bell rang as soon as the
s Large basket passed from sitter to sitter for reception of articles to be
-cognized by Walter. All in complete darkness.
o The body of this basket averages 51
/.
1 inches in diameter, is 6 inches l1igh;
the handle projects 121h inches and is provided with three luminous bands, each
.one inch wide. The basket weighs 4 ounces.
10 This. bas•
ket is 4 inches high, is rectangular; the average length of the long
'!!ide being 5l/z inches, and of the short side 3llz inches. The handle projects 11
.inches and has three luminous bands as above. It weighs 3 ounces (Av.).
TELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 573
flapper was replaced btit ceased a moment late~·, in the same period
of reel light.11
The seance of January 25th was planned for finger prints
but none were made, most of the sitting being devoted to con-
versation by Walter. Dudley had prepared a special light by
means of which he hoped to learn more about the reaction of
teleplasmic structures to certain wave lengths. This was
arranged in a standard dark-room lamp box, and consisted of a
filter which passed only a narrow band of light waves in the
green (wave lengths to which most three-color plates are in-
sensitive), and was equipped with a device for varying the
area of the lighted surface. This was tried near the close of
the seance, but Walter said that the light was too bright (a 25~
watt, tungsten filament lamp was in the box), so plans were
made for a further- test with a smaller lamp at a succeeding
seance. After this preliminary test the red lamp on the mantel
was turned on dimly, and in this illumination, while bi-lateral
double control was applied, the small megaphone12
vvas levitated
from the floor and placed on the table at Margery's left, the
edge of the megaphone being approximately flush with the inner
edge of the table. The red light was then increased to about
half streng;th. After a few moments of general conversation,
Bond (sitting next to Richardson, who controlled at the Psy-
chic's left) said that the megaphone was moving. The other
sitters, who were in position to see the table clearly, saw the
edge of the megaphone that was away from the medium tilt
upward. Dudley put his fingers under this edge, then some-
what less than one inch from the table, and felt this edge oscil-
late; then move upward about one-half inch. He did not follow
the movement beyond that point. The megaphone continued to
tip very slowly, until it fell over into Margery's lap. The light
was ample for checking the controls, and it was clear that Mar-
gery did not move throughout the operation. Walter chuckled,
and said, "You'll have to watch out for Bond's eagle eye. He
caught that movement before the rest of you.'' He then sug- .
11 See Note 29.
1 2 Weighs 6 oz., a·nd has no handle.
574 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
gested that he could do a certain amount of work in the light-
as was confirmed by the results obtained with the Butler
apparatus of a later dateY
At the seance of the 27th14
the green light was used with a
smaller lamp (2 c.p.), and was placed at the south end of the
mantel so that the light shone on the table but not on Margery's
face. At first it was quite dim, and while thus in use a voice,
claiming· to be that of Jimmie Frothing·ham, spoke to Mrs. Froth-
ingham. "Jimmie" talked for several minutes, and when asked
how he came in, answered, "I came on Walter's coat-tails !" Walter
spoke after a bit, and said that he could stand a little more light.
'l'he illumination was increased until the whole top of the table
was clearly visible. Walter said that he could not make any thumb
prints this evening; whereupon the metal dish (for cold water)
was thrown about with considerable violence. (Walter said that
Jimmie did this.) Walter talked for some time in this light, and
then asked for more light, followed, a moment later, by a com-
mand to turn it on full brilliancy. As he failed to talk in this
illumination, it was reduced somewhat, and he then asked that
the lamp box be turned toward the wall so that only reflected light
·would reach the table. As soon as this had been done he again
asked for full brilliancy. This prevented him from talking, so
a slight reduction in luminosity was made, and Walter then said,
"I will be able to work with it full on when I get a little better
used to it, but you can have it that bright for all the glass-cabinet
sittings.'' 'l'he dishes were rattled about on the table; the cloth
(used in the hot-water dish) removed; the megaphone that was
between Crandon's knees and the table, on floor, was levitated and
moved up Bond's leg (Bond was second on the right of Crandon)
three times, then to Mrs. Richardson 's knee, then to floor. The
first levitation was under double control of the Crandon-Margery
link.
Bond and Mrs. I~ichardson (with linked hands) held Bond's
handkerchief above the corner of table nearest Bond; while Walter
tried to take it away from them. He seemed to have trouble in
grasping it, but finally pulled it away and put it against Richard-
son's face, then over Bond's face ; touched Mrs. Richardson with
it, placed it in contact with the hands of Crandon and Mrs. Richard-
son, where it was held for a few moments, and then back with Bond.
There followed some further conversation, after which Walter
attempted to put the metal dish on Richardson 's head, and just
failed to make it balance. The dish fell to the floor with a loud
clatter, and rolled to the seance-room door. Walter remarked,
1s See Chapter L.
14 'l'he sitters in order: Richardson, Mrs. Frothingham, Dudley, Mr. Hyde,
Bond, Mrs. Richardson, Crandon.• Outside: Mrs. Stinson.
TELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 575
''That lit right over the colored maid's head. She won't sleep
tonight!'' After some further conversation, carried on in the
same illumination, the seance closed at 10 :10 P.M., having lasted
a little over one hour.
Throughout the telekinetic operations the structures involved
were invisible, although there was sufficient light to show that
Margery was not normally involved, nor was anyone else in the
circle. The light was not as bright as might be desired, but it
was a marked advance over the preceding seances. It was
particularly interesting to note Walter's reaction to the experi-
ment, especially his whole-hearted interest in carrying it as far
as possible on the :first real test.
February 2, 1927. The :finger-print program was still upper-
most in the minds of the sitters, but Walter appeared to be
having trouble in getting it under way, although two prints had
been made on one piece of wax on January 18th. The sitters
for this evening were Margery, Richardson, Dudley, Bond, Mrs.
Richardson, and Crandon, with Mrs. Stinson seated outside the
circle. While no :finger prints were made, there was a certain
amount of telekinetic phenomena of a unique sort, as noted
below:
Margery insisted on bi·inging the cat to the seance room, for
no reason that she could explain. After most of the group had
been seated but before the seance-room door had been closed, the
cat ("Yellow-Boy", by name) escaped into the upper hall.
Margery insisted that he be brought in so Dudley captured him,
brought h.im back in spite of some protest on the cat 's part, and
turned out the over-head light.
Walter came through promptly, and began talking to the cat,
calling him '' 'fom' ' and coaxing him into the cabinet, finally
getting him to climb into Margery's lap. This was checked by
Crandon and Richardson. Walter added, "It is a good proof that
the Kid is in trance, for the cat ran his claws into her15 and she
never said a word.'' Dudley proposed that the green light be
turned to one side but Walter suggested waiting until Saturday
evening when we would try a lot of experiments with it. In the
meantime the cat had escaped from Margery's lap, and after
Walter had talked to Bond about some personal matters h e called
the cat again, saying, "He won't stay in the Kid's lap because"
15 Examination by Margery and Mrs. Richardson, after the seance, disclosed
scratches on the former's body.
576 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
there is something queer about it. He senses me m place of her
and he doesn't understand it. ' ' Finally, the cat came into the
cabinet at ~argery 's right, and Walter . aid that he picked him
up by the trul. The cat yowled once, and then was quiet. Crandon
at Walter's suggestion, felt of the cat and reported him very
9-uiet, and that his fur felt cold. Walter : ''He's all in; his tongue
1s hanging out and his tail is stiff. If we don't get rid of him
pretty soon he is liable to croak on us and that wouldn't do.
There is too much energy around her (Margery) and it affects him.
Dudley, put on the overhead light and let him out. ''
Dudley turned on the liglJt and opened the door. The cat
walked out very deliberately.16
The overhead light was turned
out and the circle reformed. Dudley asked Walter if teleplasm
could be taken from the cat, to which Walter replied, "Sure, want
to see it ~ Put out the light. '' The green light was turned out,
and Walter continued, ''Here it is.'' A luminous mass about
the size of a small orange was then seen on the table in front of
Richardson. 'fhis moved about over the table; elongated until it
became a column some fourteen inches high and one and one-half
inches wide; grew larger and then smaller ; sank into a pool at
Richardson's end of the table (such a pool as would be formed
by a viscous substance); after which it grew taller and wider than
before, dancing about over the table, and touched Richardson's
right hand. The luminous column moved back into the cabinet
at Psyche's left, and returned to the table top. Richardson asked
Walter if he could take it from any a11imal, and the latter replied,
''Of course: it's fundamental stuff.'' Question : ''Can you build
it into a human body ?" Walter : "Sure, I can." (Another hint
for future experimentation.)
Most of the remaining conversation was of a personal nature,
an d it ended when Walter announced that he wo11ld be ready for
finger prints at the next sitting. The seance closed at 10 :10 P.M.,
the elapsed time being 70 minutes.
The seance of February 5th was carried out wholly in the
glass cabinet, following quite closely the general lines of that
of January 24th. The green light was on the mantel, and was
lighted throughout almost the whole of the seance, giving sufii-
cient illumination at the opposite side of the room so that the
faces of all the sitters could be seen, although somewhat dimly.
Margmy was secured in the cabinet as to wrists and collar
onfy, the circle being formed by Dudley, Crandon, Harriet
10 The cat acted peculiarly after th~ ~eance .and ~or several clays ther~after.
~ ""
1l ~ m\1Ch of the day·tim.e hours s1tti~g qmetly m a comer of the kitchen
ccst::\ ·illg .:o~fmg ' • and pa;YIDg no attention to the members of the household~
w l>loh lJ'·•-" 'f"':U'e' musual, for h1m.
TELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 577
Richardson, Bond, and Richardson. The seance action was as ·
follows:
Walter came through after a few moments delay and asked
for a reduction in the light. After several trials it was decreased
about one-half, with the results described above. The small basket
was placed in the large one and both were placed at the right
front of the cabinet, whence they were thrown out 17 in the direc-
tion of Boncl. When returned, the small one was levitated to about
the level of the chair arm, and then pushed straight out in front
of the cabinet, dropped to the floor, and recovered. With the
shelf in place, the small basket was rocked with the light out. Then
Walter referred to the last glass-cabinet sitting, saying, "You
gave me a square basket and expected me to rock it. Think of it :
a squa1·e baslcet! I said, Come on basket ; and it never budged!
Couldn't get it to move; thought I had lost my technique. And
John was standing there, looking on, and said, 'What's the matter
with you, anyway ?' I took the basket up and thumped it good
but it didn't help any; and a whole bunch of people here waiting
to see the show! Put on the red light.'' With a combination
of the red and green lights18 the basket was rocked.
At Walter's request, Bond turned the basket arolind and it
was rocked in the ne\v position. Walter then said that he was
going to remove the shelf, and, in spite of Crandon's protest, pro-
ceeded to do so. After g·etting one end on the floor he attempted
to pass the upper encl to Dudley but the board slipped from his
grasp just as Dudley's hand touched it, and fell to the :floor outside
the cabinet. Although both lights were on at the time the board
was largely in the shado·w cast by the sitters. (The board is 36~
inches long, 9¥2 inches wide, %inch thick, and weighs Tl;4 pounds.)
After some further conversation about the work planned for suc-
ceeding evenings, and a promise to make further experiments with
the lights, the sitting closed at 10 :50 P .M .
The next glass cabinet seance of this series was on February
7th. Cognitions of letters were given first, with one incident
where Walter expressed uncertainty between D and 0. Levita-
tion of the small basket ensued, and when it was found impos-
sible to get this above the Psychic's head, the presence of cata-
menia was recorded as probably responsible for the deficiency in
force. Similarly, when the VCO machine was tried out, Walter
could talk and whistle freely while the tip was in the Psychic's
11 The larger basket averages 8% inches square, is 5% inches high, and the
handle proj ects 12lj2 inches above the rim of the basket. It has no luminous mark·
era'. Weight 13 oz. (Av.).
18 These two .colors gave a much better illumination than either alone.
578 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
mouth, but whenever she tried to close the holes and blow the
floats into disequilibrium she would drop off into trance. When
the move was made to the old cabinet, the bell-box and the scales
were both brought out. Mather got as far as nine feet from the
Psychic with the ringing bell-box, and he held the entire scales
unit up from the table while white flashlight was played upon it,
without interrupting the supernormal behavior of the pans,
which balanced evenly under a 4 : 1 load.
On February 12th, in the presence of a large group of sitters,
another glass-cabinet seance was held. The cabinet was thor-
oughly searched before the seance; while Margery was searched
by or in the presence of several women members of the group.
The wire ties were applied by strangers and carefully checked
in the presence of the whole group, both at the beginning and
end of this part of the seance, all of whom expressed them-
selves as satisfied with their security and the fact that they had
not moved. The wooden letters for cognition were selected at
random by Dr. Levi, and were correctly identified by Walter.
The selection resulted in a peculiar coincidence, since the letters
were 0, 0, 0, C. There followed cognition of varied articles,
rocking of basket on shelf, and, with shelf removed, levitation
of the basket well out in front of cabinet, while Drs. Levi and
Davis checked the position of the Psychic's feet and hands.
Differing from some other seances of this period, the VCO test
was made·in the glass cabinet,·and was not' only very complete
but more than usually satisfactory. After the change to the
open cabinet the bell-box was lifted by Levi, who turned around
while the bell rang intermittently; it was then passed around~
the circle through the hands of seven sitters, several of whom
tumed around, while the last (Hardman) took it outside the '
circle. It was then examined in white light, and rang after the
upper member had been replaced. ·The scales balance with a·
1: 4 load and ·with a 1: 3 load, in bright red light. Levi picked
up the scales unit while it was balancing, and when he returned
it to the table he .examined the scales in white light, passing
his ·•arm clear round the scales-while they continued to oscillate. '
·walter ex;pressed himself as Wf;:lll pleased with .the. composition
TELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 579
of the circle, saying that if he could have one sitter in particular
as regular member of the group he could ''take the roof off.''
An unusual sitting was held during the afternoon of Febru-
ary 15th, in Crandon's absence, and will be reported in fall in
Chapter LI; while on the evening of the same date another
sitting was held at which nine ministers were present in addi-
tion to Dr. Davis, who had been largely instrumental in engi-
neering the afternoon seance. The phenomena, checking of
controls, etc., were similar to those of the seance of the 12th;
hence need not be repeated; while the seance of the 17th was
practically a duplicate of the above but with a somewhat differ-
ent group. On the 15th Cobleigh, and on the 17th Davis passed
his hand and forearm between the Psychic and the basket as it
rocked on the shelf in red light. In each seance the above sitters
respectively controlled .Margery's mouth during levitation of
the basket in the glass cabinet. There was an interesting inci-
dent on the 17th, in connection with the scales test: the scales
balanced approximately with a 1 :4 load, and perfectly with a
1:3 load. Under the latter loading, and in red light, Davis
added his pocket comb to the normally heavy pan. .Without any
intervening period of darkness the scales continued to balance
with the added load. The comb weighed approximately 7.5
grams, so that the total load on the west pan was approximately
26.25 g'rams, and the unbalanced ~ (Iiormal) load approximately
20 grams (% oz, Av.).
The seance of February 21st was held in the old cabinet.
After some cognitions, including the reading of several adver-
tisements and the correct determina,tio:ti of a bill (also presented
by .Mrs. Davis) as an old one of $)..00 value, Walter touched the
head of everyone in the circle separately and pulled each one's
hair.19
He levitated the lumino1,1s basket all over the region
above the table, and showed his single20
tei'minal over the limb
19 Although the record does not make tlfe specific statement it is probable that, as
is usually the case, the sitter bent over the table with his nose approximately over
the center of the luminous ring. In all similar instances (wherever reported) this
may be understood to be the case. - ·
2o A rod-like terminal which, in accordance with previous observations, seems
ad111pted.,•.to,.. develop additional finger-like processes such as ''}vould be needed in
handling coins, etc. · .-
580 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
of the doughnut. He picked up a fifty-cent piece from the table,
and rapped with it alternately on the table and the floor. He
rang the bell-box in red light while it was passed around the
circle.
On March 4th a standardized seance was held, using both
cabinets, to which the· description already given for February
15th and 17th applies in detail. Holmes was the sitter who
insulated the rolling basket from the Psychic,21
and he and Miss
Haven engineered the bell-box episodes.
Again on March 5th, this time in the early stages of a seance
in which thumbprints were produced, there was routine tele-
kinesis in the old cabinet, Cannon engineering the bell-box and
1
\l[rs. Cannon the scales.
March 17, 1927. This sitting was held at the home of Mr.
and Mrs. Roland Baker, Chestnut Street, Boston, during Cran-
don's absence from town. There were eight sitters, including
Margery, who was controlled by Mrs. Baker and Bond. After
the screens over the windows had been properly arranged and
the red light reduced to a satisfactory point, the sitting con-
tinued with the Psychic under continuous control. The con-
trollers state that they maintained complete control of her hands,
feet and knees. There were successful cognitions of four arti-
cles placed on the table in front of the Psychic; ring·ing of the
bell-box in red light while Miss Cowen and Whitney held it, both
of whom turned a complete circle; movement of luminous dough-
nut on table; levitation and rapping of coin on table. During
the period just prior to and while the extra screen was being
placed over the window by Whitney, a luminous structure was
seen just below the level of the table and about eighteen inches
from Margery's body. This was described as roughly tri-
angular in shape which changed to something about the size of
a man's thumb. When a ray of brighter light came through the
curtains Bond reports that the teleplasmic process became much
more brilliant, and appeared to be about eight inches long,
''running up slantwise in the direction of the table.'' Mrs.
21 As was done by Cobleigh and Davis on Feb. 15th. This convenient term will
be used hereafter without further explanation.
TELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 581
Baker reported touches twice, when control was reported as
complete throughout the circle and the control of the Psychic
was perfect as noted above. At one point in the seance ·a
rounded protuberance was seen, obscuring about one-third of
the luminous doughnut. The report was prepared by Bond and
Whitney.
On the 21st, after :finger prints had been obtained, the bell-
box was rung in red light while Fife, and later Barss, held it
and turned completely around. Both held it up to the level
of their eyes against the background of the mantel lamp and
watched the movements of the flapper as the bell rang inter-
mittently.22 The bell stopped ringing after Barss placed it on
the table23 (still in red light) and was then examined in the
same period of red light and with the aid of white flash light.
The examination against the .light was carried out in each in-
stance after the holder had turned around, and while the box
was approximately six feet from the Psychic.
At this date a hiatus was reached in the :finger-print program
as a result of a plan to await further expert opinion on the
prints already obtained while the Butler apparatus, described
in the next chapter, was not yet on hand. · Advantage was taken
of this fact to hold several standardized seances for the benefit
of some of the long roll of applicants for sittings. Five sittings
were held for this purpose, using both the glass cabinet and the
open cabinet in each instance.
March 22d: There was a very thorough preliminary exam-
ination and experimentation with the VCO by the visiting pro-
fessors; together with an equally thorough examination of the
bell-box, the seance room, and the glass cabinet. The Psychic
was searched by the wives of two of the professors, and was
.:ecured in the cabinet by Drs. DeMille and Mark, while Drs.
LeFavor and Mark occupied positions at her right and left.
Crandon was under the control of two other professors. There
' 22 In eaeh instanee I observed the movement of the flapper, and noted that
the ringing of the bell oecnrred when the fhipper was depressed.-E. E. D.
23 See pp. 119, 120, for the significance of this 1·emark.
582 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
were cognitions of wooden letters and personal objects; re-
peated rolling of the luminous basket on the shelf while it was
insulated by Mark and one other sitter; levitations of the basket
in the cabinet; and, while it was outside the cabinet, Mark con-
trolled the Psychic's mouth, and then, in conjunction with Le-
Favor, checked position of hands and feet. The VCO test was
car:ried out under glass-cabinet control (excepting collar) with
marked success; Mark and LeFavor controlling. The controls
were checked, the Psychic released, and sitting resumed in the
old cabinet where the bell-box test was engineered by Mark and
Mrs. Mark.
The twelve strangers present were members of the faculty
of Simmons College (a Boston institution for women), under an
arrangement made by Dr. Brewer Eddy.
March 24th: The seance was similar to the above but with
a different group. The rolling basket was insulated by Howell
in the first instance, and Miss Eddy in the second. The VCO
test (under glass cabinet control) was controlled by Emerson
and Howell. The bell-box was used during the sitting in the
old cabinet and was engineered by Miss Eddy and Emerson.
April 9th: This was a glass-cabinet seance in which the con-
ditions we.re somewhat more rigid than usual. Dudley applied
the wire ties to wrists and ankles, after which they were further .
secured by several turns of surgeon's tape24
applied by Crandon,
all of which was under the supervision of Dingwall, who then
cross-marked the tapes to the skin with blue pencil. With
Margery in the cabinet, Dingwall fastened the collar, while
Dudley secured the ankle ties to the floor bolts so tightly that
the feet could not be raised. The wrist ties were as short as
possible, so short, in fact, that the left wrist tie had to be re-
made since the wrist cramped against the edge of the opening
24 This method of supplementing the wire ties with surgeon's tape was :first used
at the seance of ·September 14, 1926. (Margery states that she suggested it as an
additional precaution.) Only the wrists were taped at :first, pencil marks being used
to locate the tapes.
TELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 583
m the wall of the cabinet. Dingwall inspected all ties while
they were being made. The seance did not get under way until
9:45 P.M. The small basket, put on the shelf by Dingwall, was
knocked to the floor; replaced by Fife, it rocked in darkness
and again in red light while Dingwall passed his arms between
· the basket and the Psychic. In darkness the ·basket started
rocking while Dingwall had his hand between it and the medium.
Cognition of wooden letters, all correct, was followed by levita-
tions of the basket, ending with basket being thrown over Ding-
wall's right arm as it was outstretched. The seance closed at
11:00 P.M., without return to the old cabinet. All ties were
checked by Dingwall and Fife,25
as well as by Dudley.
April lOth: The conditions were similar to those of March
24th. There were fourteen persons in the seance room, includ-
ing Margery. The wire ties were applied by Dudley (without
the use of adhesive tape} and were checked throughout by Dr.
Livingood. There were correct cognitions of four wooden let-
ters and numerous personal objects (all in darkness, as usual),
followed by rolling of luminous basket on shelf in darkness, and
again in light, while Livingood touched first the knees, then
the chest of the Psychic. It continued to roll ·while he made
passes between her body and the shelf. The basket was levitated
outside the cabinet (shelf removed), rotated while thus held,
and fell to floor, where it moved about. The large basket, which
was also in the cabinet, was handed to Livingood, who said that
he had to pull hard to get it away from ·walter. The VCO test
was controlled by Livingood, and was marked by whistling, the
repetition of a French Canadian verse with which Livingood
was familiar, and whistling of Suwanee River. Richardson
controlled the open end of the tube. All ties were checked by
Livingood, who then cut them and the seance was resumed in
the old cabinet, where the bell-box test was migineered by Liv-
ingood and Miss Silsby. This was followed by the scales, which
zs Both Dingwall and Fife examined the cabinet after Margery left it. The
former sat in the chair and asked me to cheek the distance from his knees to the
under side of the shelf, which was approximat ely six inches.-E. E. D.
584 MARGERY MEDIUMSI-:IIP
balanced in red light with a 1: 4 load, and while Livingood lifted
them about three feet and turned through 60° to the left, in
.white flash light, while the scales balanced kinetically.
April 12th: Crandon's record for this sitting notes a con-
siderable number of strangers (seven), and dismisses this date
with the statement: ''The procedure of this sitting was the same
as the one above.'' ·
This was followed by two sittings at which the new apparatus
was used (as described in the following chapter under the dates
of April 19th and 22d), after which there were two sittings in
the old cabinet, all of which were of routine character, as
follows:
April 26th: The telekinetic action (aside from a note on
the new B-B) is reported as, "He rang the old bell-box 100ro
performance, for Prof. Nearing and Miss Cobb," and "worked
.the scales 100%."
April 28th: The major part of the action centered around
the new glass bell-box (see following chapter), after which
Walter worked the scales, :first with a 4:1 load, then with a 1 :4
load (Bird engineering).
May 10th: A standardized seance was held in which the
regular wire ties were applied by Coleman and Thomas, after
.Margery and her garments had been examined by the ladies of
the party.26
Coleman and Nearing occupied seats next the
.cabinet and were told (by Walter) to check the condition of the
ties at any time they pleased during the seance.27
Under this
·control there were correct cognitions of wooden letters; rocking
.of basket on shelf while it was insulated by Coleman, and the
basket pushed off the shelf while Coleman and Nearing joined
-hands in front of cabinet and all controls in the circle were
reported as complete. This was followed by a tug-of-war, first
_between Walter and Nearing, and then with Coleman, after
2a Routine procedure for such seances.
21 Unless the sitter can assure himself of the security and effectiveness of these
. wiTe ties he may feel that this ·additional checking is essential; however, if he has
., b!len tied in the cabinet in the manner described in Chapter XXV, he usually over-
comes his sce_pti~isi!l. Sometimes Walter permits such checking without notice; at
other times he does not. The phenomena do not appear to differ in the least as
a function of this difference in the procedure.
TELEKINESIS OF EARLY 1927 585
which the two latter checked the controls. The VCO was used
while Margery was still in the glass cabinet, first being tested
by Nearing. Coleman controlled the opeil end of the tube,28
while Thomas controlled Crandon. Coleman checked all ties,
· after which the Psychic was released and the seance continued
in the old cabinet with both the old 29
and the new bell-boxes, the
former being engineered by Miss Doherty and Thomas. The
scales were tested in red light with a 1 :4 load, while Coleman
picked them up and turned to the left. (He picked up the metal
structure only, leaving the wooden base on the table.)
May 13th: This seance was held in the old cabinet 30
begin-
ning with the new bell-box and continuing with the old one.
Mrs. Ferranti engineered the old one, and while she was turning
around with it in red light (the bell ringing) the bell in the glass
box began to ring with the light on in the box, and with partitions
in place and staggered but not fastened in place. Ferranti
engineered the scales in red light with a 1 :4 loading, turning
completely around while white light played on them. The large
megaphone was levitated freely, followed by levitation of the
luminous doughnut, with silhouetting of unidigital terminal.
The seance of May 21st is exceptional in several ways : not
only as regards rigidity of control in both the glass cabinet and
the old cabinet, but because of the number of independent
reports. Crandon and Dudley made reports as usual, while
Bond made another report which was concurred in by May
Walker, who added further comments on her impressions of the
results obtained during the glass cabinet part of the sitting
and the tests with the glass bell-box. Since the.treatment of the
Butler apparatus is to be taken up in the succeeding chapter no
serious break in the continuity of treatment of these new devices
28
If the floats are displaced by air pressure and tho open end of the tube is
t~1en plug~ecl, th~ floats .will remail:l stationary; l1ence, the top of tTw tube was
rrmmed wlth lummous pamt and a s1tter guards it with one hand.
•
29
The old Scientific Ame1·~can bell·box in its final fonn; rmd tJJC (iqnmtpck
sc~les shown on p. 418. Both p1eces of appara.tus were used in t1 e , •
tlus clwpter. 1 seances nolecl m·
. so Controllers were Ferranti at PaycJJe 's left a d ' d
Mrs. Fenauti .sitting 11ext to the latter. 1 11 ran e
mat her right, witl1
I
586 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
will result from presenting the reports of this seance somewhat
fully. The following is taken from Dudley's record.
Miss Walker and Mrs. Palmer searched the Psychic and her
garments before the seance; the wire ties were applied to wrists
and ankles by Palmer and Dudley, the former making the ties
in the cabinet after Miss vValker had conducted the Psychic
thereto. The former secured the collar about Margery's neck,
padlocked it, examined and tested the ties at wrists and ankles
and added more knots of her own devising. She also tested the
possibility of forcing the Psychic's hands back through the
openings in the cabinet and found that it could not be done.
The door of the cabinet had been removed to permit access to the
right hand of the Psychic. Fife sat at this side and Professor
French at the other side of the cabinet, each maintaining tactual
control at all times when the seance action does not indicate that
they were checking the phenomena in other ways.
French put :five wooden letters in the large basket, and placed
the latter in the right front of the cabinet. Walter named three
correctly and dropped two in the cabinet. The shelf was then
put in the cabinet by French in red light, who examined the
small basket and placed it on the shelf where it immediately
began to rock, in darkness, continuing to rock in ·red light, and
while French made simultaneous passes above the basket and
below the shelf in such manner as to circumscribe the basket.
Miss Walker asked Walter's permission to make the same test,
to which vValter replied, ''All right, but don't wear that frilly
shawl.'' She r epeated the test described, while the basket con-
tinued to rock; Fife and French stating that they had control
of both hands of the Psychic. Miss Walker then tested the
controls of the feet. Walter remarked, u If yo~~ believe in your
wire ties I do11/t see why it is necessary to keep control of her
'h@~& i Q
1b
t c
Lo as you please."
Mi, Walker unlocked the collar; the VCO was placedo~ a
t-b _in, tiQ1lt Q
l t1 . ~abinet ; French tested the dev1ce,
m , . ~l ~ge , ' mouth. The first
~~ ' ~~ lll ru ·~\ i\lt \.\l.e m.~~\\\.-
~~ ~ ~~ ·~~ ~
\~ ~
' ~~~~ l~.
, , ~ IW\\ ·
•
TELEKINESIS OF E.ARJ1
Y 1927 587
piece slipped and had to be replaced. On the second experi-
ment, Walter repeated a short verse and. whistled freely while
the floats remained unbalanced. Fife controlled the open end
of the tube, while Crandon was controlled by Miss Walker.
Miss Walker examined the inside of the sleeves and the bath
robe of the Psychic, then examined the ties, after which the latter
were cut and the sitting resumed in the old cabinet, French con-
trolling at the left and Crandon at the right, with Miss Walker
next, in position to exercise double control. Under these con-
ditions, and while Miss Walker had double control, the glass
bell-box31
was operated as follows: a vibration of the bell ham-
mer with slight sparking at the contacts but without internal red
lamp; ringing without lamp; ringing with the light dimmed, as
though obscured somewhat; followed by ringing with lamp at
full brilliancy and, at Miss Walker's request, ringing intermit-
tently three times. Both Bond and Miss Walker state that,
''when the bell was ringing and the bulb glowing it was possible
to see the whole of the box interior as w ll as the hands of the
sitters, and there was no 'foreign body' visible within the glass
chamber."
s1 See Plate No. 39, p. 589, and description, pp. f5 9- 592.
CHAPTER L
The Butler Apparatus
Among the sitters at the seance of February 12, 1927, was
Wallace K. Butler, an Electrical Engineer residing in vVoods
Hole, Mass. Mr. Butler's interest in the telekinetic phe-
nomena which were presented, together with his inventive
ability and genius for developing simple and effective apparatus,
resulted in an important contribution to this phase of the
mediumship. After his initial sitting he designed and con-
structed a number of devices by means of which telekinetic
action can be demonstrated in a £eld of illumination of bril-
liancy sufficient to disclose any normal operation of the mecha-
nism, thereby greatly strengthening the evidence for the
supernormality of many of these phenomena. Much of this
apparatus was so designed as to focus the attention on the
phenomena themselves, while relegating the problem of control-
ling the medium and sitters to tb e background or, as in the ·case
of the glass bell-box and the sisyphus, making such control non-
essential.
Butler's apparatus was gratefully accepted at Lime Street,
and was used extensively, as w.ill be seen in this and subsequent
chapters. Many of these devices were brought by him and
were under his personal observation and control until presented
in the seance room for Walter 's consideration.
By request, Butler has contributed descriptions of all the
devices described herein, and Crandon has had photographs
taken of some ·of them. Wherever new devices are referred to
in the seance reports the descriptions will be given. Whenever
changes are made which might affect the evidence, their nature
will be noted at the appropriate point in the record. The above
refers particularly to the Little Theatre, the sistrum and the
glass bell-box, all of which underwent several mutations in the
course of the experiments. r:l'l1ere are added certain technical
588
PLATE 38. BUTLER'S GLASS BELL·BQ'\:1 Fl!.ONT VIEW, WITH ARROW SHOWING
FORM OF PASSAGE '1'0 REACII l'LAPPJCRS. SEE 'l'EX'l', PAGE 589 }'~'.
PLATE 39. BUTI,ER'S GLASS BELL-BOX, BACK VIEW. ELECTRICAT, CONNEC·
TIONS TO FLAPPERS ARE ON THE NEARER FACE OF THE GLASS PARTITION;
HENCE, PROTECTED FROM TAMPERING SO LONG AS THE GLASS COVER IS
FASTENED.
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 589
data on the pendulum, the glass balances and the sistrum, in
order to supplement the seance records.
The first installment of apparatus from Butler reached Lime
Street in time for the seance of April19, 1927. It consisted of
three pieces, as follows:
All-Glass Bell Box. This device is pictured on the facing
page. It consists first of a rectangular box, approximately
twelve inches wide, eight inches high and eight inches deep.
It is constructed entirely of sheet glass, cemented for rigidity
within a light framework of angle brass. The box is open at the
top; but is provided with a removable glass cover which fits
tightly and can be padlocked in position. The floor of the box
is of plate glass. The vertical sheet of glass forming the front
of the box does not extend the entire length of the box; an open
space about three inches wide is left at one end. Three inches
behind this front wall there stands a second vertical glass par-
tition, of the same actual length as the front wall, but with the
open space at the other end. Three inches behind this central
partition there comes a third, rearmost partition, of length cor-
responding to the other two; its open space is again reversed
with reference to that of the central partition, and hence at the
same end of the box as the opening in the front wall. The result
of this arrangement is to form a staggered or winding entrance
to the actual interior of the box, through which the human hand
cannot be intruded to ring the bell mechanism; and which it
seems would constitute an effective barrier against the entrance
of any mechanical device for such operation. All the partitions
are spaced by glass strips and are securely cemented in place,
their outer edges being faced with chamois to obviate contact
of the teleplasm with the (presumably) uncongenial glass.
Within the box, at its rear, behind the third partition and
between this and the rear wall, there is a vertical sheet of plate ·
glass the entire length of the box. This glass slides in vertical
grooves and when the box cover is off it can be lifted out. On
it is mounted the bell mechanism.
This mechanism consists of an electric bell actuated by small
dry cells, the contact being engineered by bringing together two
1/
590 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
small wooden flappers. These flappers are strips of wood about
three inches long, an inch wide, and a quarter-inch thick. Each
of them is freely suspended from a horizontal pivot at its upper
end so that they hang face to face, about an inch apart, upon the
front of the removable glass support and opposite the open space
in the third partition. These flappers· are so designed that any
manipulation of the box in the way of swinging, tilting, etc., will
merely cause them to swing in synchronism, remaining parallel
to one another. The electrical contact necessary to ring the
bell, on the other hand, can be established only by direct action
upon the two flappers, from their respective outer faces, swing-
ing them together at their lower edges; and by way of further
enforcing this necessity, all contacts, wires, etc., are placed upon
the back of the plate glass support.
In the photograph, the glass faces of the box and the glass
partitions are not clearly distinguishable. The chamois faces
of the three partitions are however plain and they define the
position of the glass. It will be seen that the opening in the
front partition is at the right of the photograph, that in the
central partition it is at the left, and that in the third and inner-
most one is at the right again. The fraud-proof character of the
apparatus is further conserved by placing the bell at the left end
of its support, so that a hand or other apparatus reaching in to
manipulate the clapper by direct action would have an even
longer and more winding passage to negotiate than one groping
for the wooden flappers. By way of additional emphasis, a
·heavy black line has been inserted in the photograph, indicating
the course which the invading hand would have to take to reach
the flappers which ring the. bell. This line is carefully drawn
in front of the chamois strips or behind them, as the case may
be, and its position with reference to them affords the :final clue
to an adequate understanding of the picture and the description.
The long horizontal strip of metal across the top of the box
is the locking mechanism. Like all other metal parts, it is of
brass.
The photograph emphasizes that the wooden flappers do not
·carry contact members on their face, but are carried on short
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 591
shafts pivoting in sleeves penetratil.1g the glass plate on which
the bell-battery-light assembly is supported. Behind this plate,
in the narrow space between -
it and the solid side wall of the
box, are the two contact members actuated by the flappers.
Thus, the latter are completely enclosed when the cover is
fastened down. · ·
P;rior to the latter part of December, 1927, the glass parti~
tions were not fixed in their staggered position, hence could be
moved from one side of the box to the other or-removed alto-
gether. Walter found it difficult to control the flappers exactly
while the partitions were fixed in the most difficult position.
(See.note 3.)
Not less important than the bell is the red-coated flashlight
bulb shown in the picture. This is wired in parallel with the
bell circuit so that, when not needed, it can be unscrewed and
the bell will still ring. With three cells of battery in use and
the bell operating, this lamp gives an illumination somewhat
greater than two candle-power (estimated). This is sufficient
to light the whole interior of the box and clearly define the faces
of sitters four feet away. In such an illumination it must be
evident that almost any extraneous physical structure. would be
discernible, if within the confines of the box.
When the box was first made the flappers swung freely and,
in order to complete the electrical circuit, they bad to be brought
together exactly on the vertical line half way between their
pivots. A very slight deviation from this central position, or
failure to bring the flappers into actual contact, would prevent
the bell from ringing. It bas been noted that when various
sitters were testing this box with the glass partitions out, they
found it very difficult to hold these flappers in their exact cen-
tral position. As first made, the flappers were unpainted. A
little later Butler enameled them white. Since they were ex-
actly under the red-light bulb Walter found considerable diffi-
culty in controlling them. At a still later date they were
arranged so that they did not swing freely, but as this change is
beyond the limits of the more important experiments it does not
affect the evidence given in this chapter.
592 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
From the above description it should be clear that, with the
cover fastened down and the light on in the glass box, it would
be quite out of the question for any extraneous mechanism to
operate the flappers without being readily detected. The intro-
duction of one or several partitions increases the difficulty of
obtaining access to the flappers, but the supernormal rating of
certain phenomena is not necessarily a function of any labyrin-
thian passage.
The entire apparatus is constructed of non-magnetic mate-
rials, with the exception of the necessary magnetic circuit of the
bell. This precaution, unnecessary as it may appear, may serve
to dissuade certain disingenuous critics from trotting out their
old standby, ''the magnet explanation.''
Eiffel Tour. A circular plaster base supports vertically a
small wooden rod about ten inches high. On this rod slides a
wooden spool coated with luminous paint. At the top of the
rod is fastened a brass disk, from numerous points on the cir-
cumference of which are strung linen cords to the plaster base.
Another cord runs spirally from top to bottom of the entire
device, being knotted to each vertical cord at each point of inter-
section. The net effect is a series of meshes approximately one
inch square surrounding the central rod. The resemblance to
the Eiffel Tower is sufficient to have led to spontaneous applica-
tion of the name. As a sort of semi-humorous effect the French
name is employed in Lime Street, and the seance records are
followed in this respect.
This device is for use in total darkness, the phenomenon
desired being a sliding of the spool to the top of the rod. It is
not impossible for the fingers to reach the spool; so it is possible
to bring the spool to the top by this means. The process is
however a slow and laborious one, for a stop has to be made at
each mesh to transfer the grip around the obstruction. If the
spool is observed to slide smoothly up the mast, this means of
fraud is excluded and such a hypothesis must center about the
possibility of a thread connection of some sort. If the spool
goes clear to the top and makes contact with the brass plate, it
becomes extremely improbable that a thread is being used.
' !
PLATE 40. " En'FEL TOUR" ON STAGE OF LITTLE THEATRE. THE. NET
CURTAIN I S ROLLED UP ON TOP OF THE BOX. SEE DESCRIPTION ON PAGE
592, COVERING CHANGES IN CONSTRUCTION.
I
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 593,
The construction of the spool is such that any thread, to be effec~
tive, would have to be attached to the spool (presumably at the
lower edge) and be detached after the levitation. If the spool
dropped from the uppermost position, as it did in most cases,
the critic might assurrie that such a thread had been used and
then pulled free. However, the device was frequently examined
before and after the seances and no evidence of such an operation
was discovered. It would require some time and patience to
niake such an attachment. During one of the later seances the
spool was levitated while the device was on the mantel, high
above the heads of the sitters. The device is so light that even
a, moderate transverse pull would be likely to tip it over.
Plate No. 40 shows the li.iffel Tour in position in the Little
Theatre, which will be described · later. In the preliminary
seances it was used without this, free on the table.
Elect1·ic T1·ipod. Three small wooden arms, about :fifteen
inches long, are pivoted together at one end, so that they may
take any position from parallelism to a separation of 120 de-
grees. At the free end of each is a small horizontal flapper, or
paddle. Each of ·these paddles, when depressed, completes an
electrical connection. These three connections are wired in
series with a bell, which then rings when and only when all three
paddles are simultaneously depressed. The idea is to see
whether the teleplasmic arm can deal ·simultaneously with the
three contacts when these are at their widest separation. Tl1is
device, like the Eiffel Tour, is illustrated in connection with the
Little Theatre.
In addition to these devices Butler had presented another
ingenious mechanism which was not used in the seance room.
It had been ex.amined and tested in the book room by the sitters
and, since it enters into the action of the seance which follows,
it will be described here.
Selective Indicator. A disk of hard rubber six inches in
diameter is caused to revolve in' a vertical plane, being driven
by a small motor. Disks of paper of the same diameter are
secured in place upon this rubber base, by means of a smaller
disk which screws clown over the :first one and leaves a half-inch
594 l\1ARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
gin p8pcr disk exposed. The smaller rubber disk
has o n sillc numerous segments of equal angular value, each
displ yi g a di l'ferent color; and, on the other side, the alphabet.
It i ' ihlc so that either side may be placed uppermost.
ouni d n 1l10 same base is a horizonta1 flapper which, when
d pr ss , bri1
1
gs into action an arm that carries an inking
device o hat the plain paper annulus around the smaller disk
is mark d at n. l oint opposite a given color or letter. Means
are provid d for varying the speed of rotation. The device is
intended f r usc in the dark, and is evidently susceptible of
arious u es. Hs immediate purpose was for cognition by
alt r o olors and letters ; the cognition to be indicated by
the ma k n tl w paper disk at the appropriate point. No illus-
tration of this np paratu seems necessary.
. ""
For th senll CC of April 19, 1927, the first three pieces of
apparatus were present in the seance room. The last named
was, as noted, sL
Lll in the book room. One of the sitters had
d press d the in k marker and left a heavy black mark on the
paper, but not opposite the marker itself, since the disk had
continued to r ol<lf 8C
ter the mark was made. All the apparatus
was carefully exmnincd and tested before the seance began.
The following· :1flslrnct is taken from Dudley's report.
The Ps cl1j,. wac; contl'olled by Martin at the left and Crandon
at the right. 'l'hr glass bell-box was on the table. Two of the
three partition-: were in but moved to one side, thus allowing
reasonably f r•·•· nrl'cs to the fl.appers.1
The Tripod and the Eiffel
Tour were al ~" nn lhc table. Walter was introduced to these devices
and whistled il JlJll'rc iatively. H e rang the bell on the tripod while
all the legs Wt'l't' in contact. He then carried out the following
tests with the ~ 1 ;~:-.s hell-box :
(1) skin .~· Io lH!Ye the light bulb removed, he rang the bell
several times ltridly, anc.l then with several long rings. The sparking
at the bell 001 du.. ts was sufficiently bright to light up the faces
of all in the <
·i J·•·Jp nnd show that no visible extraneous object was
holding the :fb ttJtt'l's in tbcir central position. Walter was heard
working in tl ~< · Ito.- <m el finally asked Crandon where he had put
the lamp. Tlw l;ltlel' explained that he had not removed it but
had unscrewed i l a litLle.
1 Dependence for etnll rol being placed on the light in the glass box.
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 595
(2) The lamp lighted and the bell rang. There were several
short rings and one or two long rings. With the brighter and
more continuous illumination the control of the apparatus was
seen to be complete. The faces and hands of everyone in the circle
were clearly seen. Margery flinched each time the lamp lighted.
(3) The bell rang but without the light. Again it rang and
the lamp lighted, presumably having been screwed in by Walter.
Again it rang with the light on and then, while the bell rang, the
light decreased in brilliancy about thirty per cent as though it had
been surrounded by a fog·. While the light was thus dimmed Dudley
saw the bulb slowly unscrew in its socket until the light went out
while the bell continued to ring. This was repeated twice and
each time there was a preliminary dimming of the light before
the bulb unscrewed.2
The slightly irregular coating of the bulb
provided a ready means for detecting its rotation. Dudley saw
no extraneous mechanism by means of which this rotation could
be accomplished. Margery's hands were more than two feet from
the box at all times when the light was on. The box was less than
two feet from Dudley as he leaned forward to study this operation
more closely.
(4) Walter explained that in operating the flappers he used
cylinders3
somewhat like those he had shown us in connection with
the balances.
(5) Martin held down two of three contacts on the tripod (these
were spread well apart at the time) and Walter operated the third
contact. While doing this he also caused the bell to ring in the
glass bellbox. These points of contact were approximately two
feet apart.4
(6) Walter was now asked about the color device downstairs
and said, "I will give you the colors on the disk in order, and
the color opposite the marlc'' 'l'here was a pause after which
he spoke again, saying, ''I have sent the hired man.'' There
was a further delay and then Walter remarked on the delay and
announced that he was looking to see where the "hired man" had
gone. His voice sounded muffled and as though it came from close
2 It would appear that this operation on the lamp itself provides complete
control of the locus of the phenomenon, dependent, of course, on the testimony
of the observers. Obviously it is a difficult matter to unscrew a lighted lamp in
the absence of any visible operating mechanism. The bulb is of the spherical type
(used in flash·lamps) and rated at 2.6 watts. It s'eems probable that the prelim-
inary dimming was caused by the teleplasmic structure, which, however, was not
sufficiently dense to permit of determining its boundaries in spite of the closest
scrutiny.
. 3 The mechanism for holding the flappers together and central was invisible. If
they were held so tightly together that one could not move with reference to the
other continuous riJ1ging would result. But the slightest depal'ture from such central
position, while the flappers were thus held, would open the circuit, since the flappers
would, under this assumption, tend to remain off center.
4 SiJnultaneous telekinetic effects two feet apart, and in light.
596 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP ,
to the floor at the west side of the cabinet. Finally the message
was delivered as follows : ''The colors on· the disk are orange,
yellow, white, black, light red, green, dark brown, dark red and
light brown. The mark is opposite the black." Walter added
"The hired man used to be a painter." A later check showed
that the mark on the paper was opposite the black and that the
colors were quite accurately given.5
(7) Following some further talk by Walter, Mrs. Richardson
said, "The spool is at the top of the tower." Walter : "I 'II prove
it.'' The spool dropped with an audible ''bang.'' Everyone in
the oircle saw it drop but no one had seen it rising.
On April 21st, after the work in the Glass Cabinet was com-
pleted Walter again attacked the glass bell-box while Margery
was in the old cabinet. Its condition was as previously de-
scribed; the open side was toward the medium. ·The bell rang
without the light on and then, with the light on (but somewhat
dim), it rang several times. Still, there was light enough to
check the fact that the operation was apparently supernormal.
This was followed by a protracted ring with the light at full
brilliancy. Walter objected to the intense concentration of the
sitters, saying that it interfered with his work in the bell-box.
On April 2·2nd, George Valiantine6
was present. It was
known, on the 19th, that he was coming but Walter had said that
George would have no part in the seance of this date. Howeverr
he (W.) relented during the last half of the seance and several
of Valiantine 's ''controls'' used the trumpet. The first part of
the seance was devoted to the glass bell-box, with the Eiffel Tour
as an auxiliary. The following is taken from Dudley's record.
Valiantine was in the cabinet at Margery's left and was con-
trolled on his left by Brown. Crandon controlling at Margery'&
right as usual. There was no control of the Margery-Valiantine
link, but the nature of the phenomena made such control unneces-.
sary.
The glass bell-box was on the table and in the same condition
as at the last seance : two partitions in place but not fixed. 'france
came quickly and Walter began to experiment with the bell-box.
5 It is my recollection that Marge1·y had left the book room before the mark was.
made on the paper. However, this experiment lacks any great evidential value, as
was recognized at the time.-E. E. D.
6 A well-known American medium. Both the DeWyckoffs and the Cannons had
many sittings with him, and the latter brought him to Boston on this and several
subsequent occasion£.
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 597
It rang with the lamp unscrewed (although it had been screwed
in when the seance began), and then it rang witli the light on.
'l'he lamp lighted but the bell did not ring then; while the light
was still on the bell began to ring. This was· a clear indication
that the hammer of the bell was restrained in some manner. · Again,
. while the light was on the bell rang in a muffled ·fashion, just as
it does when the hammer is partially restrained by the finger.
. At no time was there any visible evidence of an extraneous structure
to accolmt for these operations. At the close of this test the mov-
able partition next the flappers was found in front of the flappers.
'l'he luminous spool in the Ei:ffel Tour was pushed slowly to
the top, but not until the luminosity had decreased somewhat from
its initial brilliancy.7
It could not be determined exactly when the.moveable parti-
tion in the bell-box was pushed over from its first position.
In any event, this point is not a very critical one, since the
important phenomena were presented in the light. The box
was carefully examined before and after the seance.
The record of the April 26th seance gives only ari outline of
'what happened in connection with the bell-box. Apparently
both the old and new bell-boxes and the scales were operated.
It is noted, however, that Walter again lighted the lamp in the
glass bell-box without ringing the bell. It would seem as
though the control of the locus of the phenomenon, through the
illumination and consequent ease of inspection, should place
these phenomena in the class of those ·which are controlled by
the apparatus in which the action is produced.
On April 28th and May 3rd, the new apparatus was again
operated in the presence of the old. On the :first of these dates
there were presented ''all the permutations of experiment with
the new glass bell-box, ringing the bell with no light, giving the
red light without ringing the bell, giving bell and light together,
and dimming the light during the ringing of the bell; always
with no visible structure or agency doing it.'' Bird notes,
from his own memorandum, that the glass partitions were not
in the bell-box, but the visibility in the red light from the
apparatus was excellent and that from the contacts (in absence
1 Both the enclosing mesh and the spool were covered with dots of luminous
paint. Walter has repeatedly said that it is difficult for him to work in close
proximity to this luminous paint when it is at its maximum brilliancy.
598 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of the red light) was not bad. The record for May 3rd (Cran-
don's record as is the above) describes some of the most impres-
sive phenomena:
Walter carried out the following phenomena :
(1) Ringing the glass hell-box with and without turning on
the red light. This was with the approach to the ringing apparatus
''staggered'' by means of the glass partial partitions.
(2) With both bell-boxes on the table, in dim red light [from
the glass bell-box lamp] he rang both simultaneously, but not in
rhythm with each other. He then allowed the Scientific American
bell-box to be lifted by Mrs. Ferranti and she turned completely
around. The ringmg of borth bells contim£ed inte1·rnittently, irreg1V
larly, and not in rhythrn with each other throughout.
During the more difficult new experiments the Psychic groaned
considerably.
In the standardized seance of May 10th, after moving.to the
old cabinet the new apparatus as well as the old was presented
to Walter; and he "rang the glass bell-box with the red light
off, then with red light on." Following this, the Butler appa-
ratus was used in the seance of May 19th, and again in the
seance of May 21st, which was given in full at the end of the
previous chapter.
At the May 23rd seance, Butler was present in person, and
he brought with him further apparatus, one piece of which has
already been mentioned. In so far as this new apparatus was
used at the present sitting, it comprised five pieces as follows:
The Little Theatre. This device consists of a rectangular
wooden framework about twenty inches long, fourteen high
and eight deep; supported in an upright position upon a light
wooden trestle which raises it some ten inches above the surface
upon which it is placed. Its entire front is formed by one glass
sheet, approximately eighteen by twelve inches; its back by
sheet metal, bent to form two vertical concavities. These areas
are painted white to serve as reflectors; and within each are
placed an upper and a lower electric lamp of red glass. The
symmetric placing of these four la:rpps within the body of the
theater, plus the uniform reflecting power of the back surface,
insures an even lighting of the glass front. A further factor
in this direction is introduced, with red tissue paper screens
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 599
placed behind the glass. In its modified form the tissue paper
screens were replaced by ground glass. The lamp bulbs were
coated with red lacquer. Each lamp is 16 c.p. and of the carbon
filament type.
Across the entire width of the glass front, and about th~ee
inches above its lower edge, runs a plate glass shelf four inches
wide, supported ·at either end by brass brackets. The general
idea of thEl! device is that various pieces of seance apparatus
shall be placed for operation on this shelf, where their working
will be subject to a maximum of observation and control. The
lamps already described provide the facilities for observation.
For control, when desired, the glass shelf, or stage as we shall
hereafter call it, can be practically enclosed by glass wings
which pull out from the ends of the theater assembly. There
is also a hinged glass cover that folds down from the top like
a hood; and a sheet of plate glass that may be dropped into
slots in front of the stage. The wings and this last named sub-
stage enclosure were always in place during the tests. With
the glass cover lowered the ·stage is practically enclosed, since
access to it can be gained only through the front.8
The illumina-
tion is controlled by a variable resistance wired in series with
the lamps; the actuating mechanism of the rheostat being two
horizontal paddles or flappers at the back of the theater, on
either side. The idea here is that Walter shall himself regulate
the light according to his immediate needs from moment to
moment.
The paddles are counterweighted to minimize the force re-
quired for their depression. They operate ratchets that move
the rheostat arm step by step, to right or left, according to which
paddle is depressed. Starting with the lamps extinguished,.
depression of one paddle illuminates the field with a dim but
a The photographs of the Little Theatre show it as it was at a much later date.
A.t this seance the top, bottom and wings of the stage enclosure were of wood. The·
stage and sub-stage front were glass; while in place of the hinged glass cover there
was a curtain of fish-net, fine enough to protect the stage from normal intrusion
when lowered, but not fine enough to prevent proper observation of the phenomena.
When the scales were in use this was rolled up on top of the theatre. The glass-
wings and glass cover were applied after June 16th. The theatre being returned to-
Lime Street on July 15th.
600 MARGERY. MEDIU:lVISriiP .
uniform red light; and each succeeding depression of the same
paddle augments the illumination until a bright red glow· is
present. At any stage, depression of the other paddle cuts down
the lighting by one stage. After the eye is accustomed to the
semi-gloorri of the seance room, any object placed upon the stage
is silhouetted against the field and stands out in sharp relief;
even with the ,minimum illumination. The paddles are placed
at the rear of the outfit so that, in operating them, Walter may
be exposed to the minimum 'of reaction of his teleplasm to the
light. . The plates, with their captiOl'is, will make clear any
element of this description which may appear ambiguous. .
Butler Mechanical Bell. It is necessary to attach the in~
ventor 's name to this, because of the existence of prior mechan~
ical bells by Dingwall and Code.9
This one consists of a sma'll
wooden platform about three by eight inches, at one end of
which is mounted an ordinary bicycle bell. A horizontal paddle
or flapper is molinted at the opposite end, so linked with the
bell that a slight downward pre'ssure will cause the latter to
ring. A suitable spring then returns the flapper to its original
position. This bell was designed particularly for use on the
stage of the little theater. "
Glass Balances. These consist of a glass standard supported
on a brass base made of angles and shaped like an elongated
1etter H; at the top of the standard a cap carries the pivot which
supports the beam. The latter is ·a %-inch g·lass rod or tube
strengthened by a wire stay. A small eye on the under side of
each end of the beam carries a ·wire tripod, from the ends. of
which depend the suspender threads which are attached to the
edge of the pans.· The pans themselves are fiber rings three
inches in diameter, across the bottoms of which are stretched
open nettings of :fiber. The weights are small glass squares,
weighing approximately 1j
8 oz. (Av.) each. The pivot is
approximately 8% inches above the base. The beam is lOYs
inches long between pan suspensions. When the pans ar.e in
balance their bottoms · are approximately 1% inches froin
o See pp. 86, 117.
PLATE 41. AN EARLY FORM OF THE LITTLE THEA'l'RE, WITH MECHANICAL
BELL ON STAGE.
PLATE 42. GLASS BALANCES ON STAGE OF L ITTLE THEATRE AS IN THE
SEANCE OF JUNE 16, 1927. EAST PAN LO·ADED. SEE PAGE 600.
PLATE 43. SISYPHUS ON STAGE OF LITTLE THEATRE, WITH NET CURTAIN
LOWERED. SEE PAGE 601.
PLATE 44. THE LITTLE T HEATRE WITH VANE ON STAGE AND NET CURTAI N
LOWERED. T HIS IS THE FIRS'r FORJ\1 OF THE DEVICE AS DESCRillED ON
PAGE 601.
PLATE 45. LIT'l'l"E THEA1.'RE1 BACK .VIEW, SHOWING RHEOSTA'r.
I
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 601
"ground" (in these tests the glass stage). A weight of 2.5 grains
will deflect the-loaded pan one inch; while 5 grains will prac-
tically ground it. This description applies to the glass balances
used in the early experiments. Subsequently, a different and
less sensitive balance was provided. This may be described
as follows:
In the center of a light support of angle brass are pivoted
two brass strips, one above the other. These form the arms
of the balance, whose over-all length is about ten inches. The
pan supports are so linked to the arms that irrespective of the
tilt!,'ld position of the arms and of the -consequent difference in
level of the pans, these always stand on an even keel.
Sisyphus. So named in reference to the Greek legend. A
light frame-work of brass, fifteen inches long, supports two
glass strips set at a slight angle to each other so as to form an
inclined trough which, in turn, forms an angle of about 2·3°
with the base. On this track is placed a hollow, red celluloid
ball 2% inches in diameter. This has three equatorial black
stripes at right angles to each other. It weighs 130 grains.
The only position which the ball can occupy under the in-
fluence of gravity alone, is against a stop at the bottom of
the track. When the apparatus stands on the illuminated stage
of the theatre any movement is readily observed. Further,
by watching the plainly visible black stripes, it becomes im-
mediately apparent, if the ball proceeds up the track, whether
it is rolling, or being dragged as on the end of a string. The
entire device is of course of non-magnetic materials.
Vane. This, like the Butler bell, the glass balances and the
Sisyphus, is designed primarily for use on the stage of the little
theatre. A glass plate ten inches square is supported vertically
on a wooden base, and t_
here are stencilled on it the eight major
points of the compass. A blunt wooden arrow is pivoted at the
center of this plate, with sufficient tension to hold it in any posi-
tion. There is a paddle at the head of the glass plate by means
of which rotation of the vane may be achieved.
With all this new apparatus present, the seance record (May
602 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
23rd) describes the action in the following terms, there being
in each case a description of the apparatus which is omitted:
. (1) The mechanical bell was rung on the stage, without any
hght. Walter asked that the spring be made less tight for next
time.
(2) With the balances on the stage, Walter ordered that all
the weights, twelve in number, aggregating about l :llz ounces in
weight, be put on one pan. He then proceeded in front of the
luminous screen, to oscillate the balances as though they were equally
loaded.10 ·
(3) He repeated this experiment, beginning the motion in the
red light and continuing in the red light throughout.n
. (4) The Sisyphus was placed on the illuminated stage, and
the ball was made by Walter to roll slowly up the fifteen-inch
incline, and to roll slowly back at the same speed. We could see
clearly that it was rolling· and not draggingP
(5) Walter moved the weathervane through an angle of twenty
degrees, several times, on the illuminated stage. In none of the
experiments did we see any sign of the mechanism that performs
the movements. The Sisyphus seemed to be hardest for Walter
to do.
The May 29th record tells us :
(1) H e made the glass balances act as though entirely un-
loaded. The west pan containing ten glass weights (about 1%
ounces) ; the east pan, nothing. They balanced statically and
in oscillation. The experiment was repeated, Button putting two
ten dollar gold pieces in the west pan; and Walter made them
balance both ways.
(2) Walter made the celluloid ball of the Sisyphus roll slowly
up the glass incline, and then slowly back and forth13
several times.
It went down as slowly as it went up, and not as if by gravity.
10 .Another of the numerous instances in which Walter operates a new device
under new conditions and without pmctice.
11 It bas been suggested that this phenomenon does not wholly meet the most
rigid requirements of phenomena in the light, in that there was a pe1·iod of darkness
before the balancing began.
12 Clearly, the important points are that it 1·ollecl and that it moved slowly.
In the absence of any visible operating structure a fl).ow movement would be classed
as supernormal even though the ball was dragged, but when it 1·olls without visible
control a normal explanation seems out of the question.
1s .As a rule the ball stops before it reaches the top of the incline, and then
returns slowly (two to three seconds") to the bottom and repeats. From Walter's
remarks on the difficulty which he experiences in performing this experiment in
front of the lighted· background, we gather that it is somewhat of the order of
trying to control a red·hot copper ball with an icicle; the light taking the place of
the heat (to us) and the teleplasm reacting_to it as an icicle would, in the former case.
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 603
(3) Walter rang· the bell in the plate-glass bell-box. While
it was ringing intermittently, Button turned the box around so
that the only entrance was toward him and then picked it up
and then turned himself and the box through an angle of 360
degrees. 'rhe box continued ringing intermittently all throuo·h the
experiment, and then stopped.l4 "'
All these experiments were in good red light.
eluding seances at which other apparatus was present, and
'ng those withheld from the present chapter for display
ere, we have had at this moment eleven consecutive
at which the Butler apparatus was present either exclu-
as the piece de r·esistance. vVe have had in this period
standardized seance of general attendance, and another
,hich in many of its procedures was like the standardized
at which there was a small and deliberately selected
e. Save for a few more occasions like that one, we
e no more standardized seances; the practice of public
a has been definitely abandoned as constituting too
drag on a mediumship whose fundamental r·aison cl'etre
1ti:fic one. For the balance of the year, practically sole
n will be given to two programs : the development of
b-print sequences and the experimentation with the
• paratus. Two seances, of June 16th and 24th, are
~o complete the preliminary stages of the latter pro-
ey were consecutive, and apparently represent a brief
aken, by Walter or by the sitters, from the .thumb-
r
riments. The records of both s€ances, as taken from
·otes, follow:
-E 16. The Psychic was controlled by Butler and Crandon.
l, wh€n Butler is present, he sat at the left. Walter came
promptly and, after working with photographic plates
a.ker, proceeded with the following experiments with th'~
~ .. ...,1)paratus: .
,1) The glass bell-box was presented but Walter sard that he
ld not work it. It was removed. The Little Theatre was on
not clear whether the 1
:ed light in the box was on or off. However, it is
note that tbe ringing was intermittent while the box was being carried
ake this bell intermit the flappers must be displaced more or less h om
'!OSition and then returned exactly to that position. Obviously this is
delicate operation than that involved in making the S. A. bell-box.
jj I
604 i:VLARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the table and Crandon put the glass balances on the stage. They
were in balance vvith ·empty pans. With the light on (first step)
Walter asked for one weight. This was put in the west pan b)
Crandon. The loaded pan then rose slightly. .Another weight wa
added and the loaded pan dropped slightly and then rose agai
The addition of another weight caused the west pan to rise ,
higher. The light or empty pan was now down on the stage. '-·
scales then balanced statically, i.e., the pans were at approxima ·
~he _same level. IJ?-mediately they be~El:n to dance up and ;
m time to the music. There was no visible contact and bot ·
were horizontal. Walter then asked that a jack-knife be
to the load. Richardson attempted to put his pocket-
the loaded west pan but failed to get it exactly in·the cen11
the result that it fell to the table. On the second att
succeeded and the loaded pan was grounded, but it imr
rose and the empty pan tipped up at an angle as though h
by the front edge. There was no visible connection to
for these operations. The experiments were carried ou
continuous period of illumination. The only access to t.
was through the front opening, the netting screen 15 havi
thrown back on top of the theatre. The scales were then
and Richardson obtained his knife.
(2) The Sisyphus 'was placed on the stage. .After tr
with darkness between during which John was asserted (by
to be attempting to roll the ball up the incline but without
Walter took the matter in hand. The ball 1
·olled slowly to
of the incline, paused a moment, and then as slowly 1·oll(
bottom.16
(3) The Little Theatre was removed from the tabl/
glass bell-box again presented. The cover was off but all
were in place in stagger:ed position. The bell was ru
the light. It then rang several times but not very lor
loudly, with the cover in place and the slides as bef
the glass partitions (slides) removed and the cover OJ
rang while Butler lifted the box high in the air and U
1 5 The theatre was in the :first form, with wooden top, bottom and
scales experiment was a very important one. In effect, each increm
constituted a new ell.--periment carried out in front of a continuously illnf
ground which permitted of complete visual control of the locus of th{
There were, then, four experiments under these conditions. Since the ·., -·
transparent, with the exception of the knife, there could be no charge that
heavy weight was substituted for a lighter one. Also, all the weights were
van, and this obviates any such assumption as the above. Furthermore, i
are of net, so nothing can be concealed in or on them. The fact that the '
tained their normally horizontal relationship to the stage wl1ile they an'
beam oscillated in time to the music indicates that tbe invisible force
controlling tJ1eir movement was not applied eccentrically, as was the ca
.knife 1.'ms .a.ad.ed to the load.
16 Stage enclosed except that the cover was thrown back.
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 603
. (3) W:alt~r r~ng t~e hell in the plate-glass bell-box. While
1t was rmgmg mterm1ttently, Button turned the box around so
that the only entr~nce was toward him and then picked it up
and then turned lumsel£ and the box throuo·h an ano'le of 360
degrees. 'l'he box continued ringing intermitt;ntly all throuo·h the
experiment, and then stopped.14
5
All these experiments were in good red light.
1~lnding sean?es at which other apparatus was present, and
lng those Withheld from the present chapter for display
ere, we have had at this moment eleven consecutive
at which the Butler apparatus was present either exclu-
as the piece cle resistance. vVe have had in this period
standardized seance of general attendance, and another
,hich in many of its procedure·s was like the standardized
· at which there was a small and deliberately selected
e. Save for a few more occasions like that one, we
·e no more standardized seances; the practice of public
n has been definitely abandoned as constituting too
drag on a mediumship whose fundamental raison d)etre
ttific one. For the balance of the year, practically sole
n will be given to two programs: the development of
b-print sequences and the experimentation with the
paratus. Two seances, of June 16th and 24th, are
.;o complete the preliminary stages of the latter pro-
ey were consecutive, and apparently represent a brief
aken, by Walter or by the sitters, from the .thumb-
riments. The records of both seances, as taken from
·otes, follow:
'E 16. The P sychic was controlled by Butler and Crandon.
1, when Butler is present, he. sat a~ the left. Wal.ter came
promptly and, after worlnng w1th pho~ograpluc. plates
1
ker, proceeded with the following expenments w1th th·~
. , _.1Jparatus: ·d th t h
,1) The glass bell-box was pr-esented but _Walter sa1 a c
ld not work it. It was removed. The L1ttle Theatre was on
-not clear whether the red light in ~he box ';as on or off. Ho:vever, i~ is
note that the Tinging was intermittent while the box was bemg earned
ake this bell intermit the flappers must be disp.l~ced more. or less ~ro~
1
osition and tlien Teturned exactly to that pos1~10n. Obviously this I S
a.elicate operation than that ilwolved in makmg the . S. A. bell-box1
•
II
604 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
the table and Crandon put the glass balances on the stage. They
were in balance with -empty pans. With the light on (first step)
Walter asked for one weight. This was put in the west pan b:y
Crandon. The loaded pan then 1·ose slightly. Another weight ~a
added and the loaded pan dropped slightly and then ros~ agaJ
The addition of another weight caused the west pan to r1se "'
higher. The light or empty pan wa.s now down on the stag~. '
scales then balanced statically, i.e., the pans were at approx1ma
the same level. Immediately they began to dance up and d
in time to the music. There was no visible contact and bot~
were horizontal. Walter then asked that a jack-knife be
to the load. Richardson attempted to put his pocket-1m
the loaded west pan but failed to get it exactly in·the centl
the result that it fell to the table. On the second att
succeeded and the loaded pan was grounded, but it ilm
rose and the empty pan tipped up at an angle as though h
by the front edge. The1·e was no visib~e connection to
fo1· these opemtions. The experiments were carried ou
continuous period of illumination. The only access to t.
was through the front opening, the netting screen 15
hav·
thrown back on top of the theatre. 'fhe scales were then
and Richardson obtained his knife.
(2) The Sisyphus 'was placed on the stage. After t~
with darlmess between during· which J olm was asserted (by
to be attempting to roll the ball up the incline but without
Walter took the matter in hand. The ball 1·olled s~owly to
of the incline, paused a moment, and then as slowly 1·ollri
bottom.16 l
(3) The Little Theatre was removed from the tabl(
glass bell-box again presented. The cover was off but all
were in place in staggered position. The bell was ru
the lig·ht. It then rang several times but not very l01
loudly, with the cover in place and the slides as befc
the glass partitions (slides) removed and the cover OJ
rang while Butler lifted the box high in the air and
15 The ~heatre was in the ~rst form, with wooden top, bottom and
scales eJc1Jenment was a vei'Y nnporta.nt one. In effect each incremE
constituted. a new e::"Periment carried o~t in front of a co~tinuously illu
ground which perm1tted of complete visual control of the locus of th
There were, then, four experiments under these conditions. Since the " -·
transpare!lt, with the ex.ception of the knife, there could be no charge that
heavy wmgh.t was .substituted for a lighter one. Also, all the weights were
pan, and this obviates any such assumption as the above. Furthermore i
ar? of net,, so nothing can .be conceale~ in o;r on them. The fact that the ir
tamed th~Ir noi·~all:f honzontal rel~ti~nsl~1p to the stage while they an'
beam oscillated m t1me to the music md1cates that the invisible force
controlling their movement was not applied eccentrically as was the ca
knife was added to the load. '
10 Stage enclosed except that the cover was thrown back.
THE BUTLER APPARATUS 605
way around while light was playing on it all the time, while
it rang intermittently. The flappers, recently painted with white
enamel, were seen to be in contact in their central position but
swung apart as Butler was about to place the box on the table.
Walter asked to have it left on the table as it was. (The inter-
mittent ringing indicated that the flappers moved very slightly
from the central position and returned exactly to center each
time. That the movement was slight was determined by the observa-
tion that they seemed to remain central throughout the test.)
In the description of the Sisyphus experiment no time interval
was given in the writer's notes. Estimating the interval from
this distance, it may have been approximately three seconds for
the· movement from one end of the incline to the other. The
ball did not slide; it rolled. The sequence of the bell-box experi-
ments provides an excellent check against the assumption that
some extraneous structure, however fine, is invoived in the ringing
under such conditions. Butler, the designer and maker of the
device, is also one of the most critical observers of its functioning.
He was studying it carefully throughout the experiment and was
satisfied that no normal means were used to make the bell ring.
In connection with the remarkable actions of the glass balances,
it will be desirable to compare the conditions existing during this
seance with those of later datesP
JuNE 24. Fife controlling at the Psychic's left and Crandon
at the right. Trance came quickly and Walter manifested promptly.
After introductions to the new sitters he refused to consider finger
prints, saying that he had set that for next week. He then pro-
ceeded with the following phenomena:
(1) Walter asked for the old (S.A.) bell-box. It was put on
the table and rang in the dark but when Bernstein lifted it twic~
it failed to ring. On a third trial it rang as he turned around
with it. Replacing it on the table he examined it in white light
and turned back the flapper. When he replaced the flapper the
bell rang again, still in the red light.
(2.) The glass bell-box was put on the table and rang but with-
out the internal red light. It then rang while white light was
played on it. After a brief delay it rang again with the red light
now turned on, presumably by Walter. Walter then attempted
to ring it while it was held in the air by Mrs. Scott, by Bernstein
and by Mrs. Bernstein, without success. Again he tried while
Fife held it. This time it rang intermittently while Fife turned
around with it and continued to intermit while it was replaced
on the table and the open side turned away from Margery, then
turned back. It was now ringing continuously and Fife, at Walter's
request, turned it on its back. The bell stopped ringing when
11 Temperature in seance room approximately 70° F.; Barometer, 30.11;
Humidity, 67 per cent.
606 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the box had turned through an angle nf about 50°.18 After the
box had been returned to about the same angle, on its way to its
· normal position, the bell rang (with the internal red light on)
and continued ringing so long that the light disturbed the medium.
It rang again (while on the table) while the white flash light was
turned on it. Walter objected to the white enamel on the flappers,
saying that it dissolved his energy.
(3) The Comstock balances were put on the table. Mrs. Bern-
stein, making her own choice, put four weights in the east pan
and one in the west pan. In a subsequent period of red light the
scales balanced kinetically. Bernstein then picked them up and
turned part way around while Crandon turned the whitB flash
light on the scales, which continued to balance as before.
(4) The VCO test was successfully carried out with Scott guard-
ing the top of the tube.
Walter said that after the finger prints were finished for the
summer he wanted fewer sittings; that it was too hot to bring out
the teleplasm. For this date the temperature was approximately
72° ; Barometer, 30.12; humidity, 78 per CBnt.
The next three chapters contain further descriptions of the
use of the Butler apparatus under conditions which have led
to some very important evidence bearing on the supernormal
nature of the phenomena.
1s The act of turning the box on its long axis should not change the tendency
of the flappers to remain central if they were held together as above, nor if they
were held central by a system of symmetrically disposed struts. If, however, they
are held together somewhat lightly and centered by a single strut (presumably tela-
plasmic) extending from one of them and at an angle to the back plate, it is con-
ceivable that this turning ope1·ation would introduce an unbalancing moment when
the flappers departed a certain distance from the vertical. Also, the flappers would
return to their central position when the box was returned to this critical angle.
CHAPTER LI
Five Outstanding· Records of 1927
As was noted in Chapter XLIX, the development of the
mediumship in 1927 focussed largely on certain specific phe-
nomena, interspersed with relatively few ''standardized
seances'' for new sitters. Occasionally, however, it seemed
desirable to give certain of the better informed students of the
subject an opportunity to examine the phenomena under more
rigid conditions of control.
In January, 1927, Mr. Hamlin Garland, novelist and biog-
rapher, was elected to the Board of Trustees of the A.S.P.R.,
and was named Chairman of the Committee on Research,
largely because of his public position and his interest in and ex-
perience with the physical phenomena of mediumship. Several
of his articles and novels contain a psychical element which is
treated in a manner that indicates his conviction as to the
supernormality of the occurrences that he describes. He makes
no secret of his belief on this point, but seems strongly inclined
to the animistic interpretation as contrasted to the spiritistic.
He believes that the objection to light in mediumistic seances is
a function of the medium's doubts or fears, and has no physi-
cal basis.1
Garland's interest in the phenomena, coupled with his opti-
mistic viewpoint, led him to believe that if he could have a
sufficient number of seances under very rigid control he could
bring conviction to many sceptics-who were not present.
Hence, he arranged for a series of sittings with Margery under
conditions which were approximately his own, except that it
1 Apparently the effect of light in mediumistic seances involving physical
phenomena should be determined by laboratory methods. Since mediums· are persons
whose powers vnry, there is little reason for assuming that all will react alike to the
same stimuli. Furthermore, there is some slight basis for believing that the animistic
subject (i.e., the one who may control his own psychic energy even when it is exteri-
orizecl) may function s'npernormally in light that would inhibit (in most cases) the
phenomena which are believed· to be truly mediumistic.
607
608 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
seemed desirable to have someone present who was somewhat·
familiar with the conditions which usually prevail, but not
with any idea of interfering in any way with the effectiveness
of his work. This arrangement resulted in a preliminary
seance, and two others at which he imposed his own control.
Naturally, such experiments should be presented in full, and,
for the convenience of the reader, may well be collated in one
chapter.
In addition to these seances of Garland's and the one for
Miss Walker, there is an earlier seance which, because of the
conditions under which it was held, the personnel of the group,
and the nature of the results obtained, certainly deserves a
place in this chapter. The record was entirely by the late Dr.
Ozora Davis/"' and was concurred in by Mrs. Davis and Mr.
Bond.2 Since it carries its own introduction and raison d'etre
it is appended at this point:
Seance of February 15, 1927: 4:45 P.M. Bond, Dr. and Mrs.
[Ozora S.] Davis, Mrs. Stinson and Mrs. Crandon had been dis-
cussing the criticism often waged against the Margery phenomena
to the effect that Crandon's presence in the seance room cast suspi-
cion upon his collusion in the production of the results. The
suggestion was made that sittings without his presence were desir-
able, and it was agreed that an experiment should be made at
once. Therefore, on the spur of the moment the five persons named
above went to the upper floor of the house and the acts that follow
took place from 4:45 to 5:40 P.M.
Before going into the seance room, the party gathered in the
neighboring room. Mrs. Davis made an examination of the Psychic
and assured the others that she could detect no signs of any articles
concealed about her; she wore a bathrobe over her clothing and
Mrs. Davis put on a short Chinese coat. Then Davis cut out the
tube and the wires3 and securely wired the wrists and ankles of
the psychic. Mrs. Davis conducted her to the seance room. All the
precautions which could be suggested were carried out.
On reaching the seance room the group was seated in the order:
la At that time, President of the Chicago Theological Seminary.
2 Dr. Davis did not sign this report, but Bond states that the former wrote the
whole of it, that it was concurred in by all the sitters, and presents a true picture
of the seance. Dudley heard Davis express his complete satisfaction with the
sitting and with the supernormality of the phenomena.
3 Rubber tubing used as a protection against cutting the flesh (see p. 318).
The tubing provides an additional obstacle to slipping the wrist ties in either
direction, since it tends to adhere. to the skin.
FIVE OUTSTANDING RECORDS OF 1927 609
Margery, Bond (holding her left hand), Davis (controlling the
red light), Mrs. Stinson, Mrs. Davis (holding the Psychic's right
hand 4 only during the final levitation). There was a space of two
chairs between Mrs. Davis and the right hand of the Psychic until
the final levitation of the baskets. The psychic was tightly and
effectually wired into the glass cabinet, both hands and feet. The
latter had not more than three inches extreme lateral play-none
vertically. The buckle of the neck-collar was wired up by Davis.
Walter's whistle was heard within a minute of the first darken-
ing of the room. Bond, at the Psychic's directions, had picked out
with finger and thumb five wooden letters (not identified by him)
and placed these in the larger basket. He also, unknown to the
other sitters, added a· packet of cigarettes. He placed the basket
by Walter's direction within the cabinet by the Psychic's right leg,
on the floor.
Walter almost immediately threw out the letters, identifying
them in turn as U, W, M, L, E. These were also in turn identified
by Bond and Davis, who retained them. Walter threw out the
packet, saying, ''Here, Bond, take your cigarettes.''
Walter whistled two well-known airs, very clearly.
Walter next asked that the shelf be placed in the cabinet. This
was done by Davis. At Walter's request Bond then took the
smaller luminous basket and laid it along the shelf. Walter rocked
this basket in red light in sight of all, and Bond then put his hand
and forearm along between the Psychic and the basket, touching the
shelf all along its edge, but felt nothing. All the time, the rocking
continued gently, but finally ceased, and began again as soon as
the light was shut off.
Mrs. Davis then, at Walter's request, took the basket and laid
it on the shelf. The same rocking was repeated in red light and
Davis placed his arm and hand between the Psychic and the basket,
as before.
Walter then gave explicit instructions that the sitters were to
do exactly as told, affirming that this was very important. Dr.
and Mrs. Davis and Bond assured him that they would do so. He
was whistling in a ~trong, clear way a familiar tune, in which Davis
joined him. He said, "Now don't fall over one another and hurt
yourselves.'' We understand that Mrs. Stinson's lameness pre-
vented her sharing in the action.
Walter then asked for the luminous basket to be placed within
the larger basket by Bond and the two to be placed in the cabinet
at the right of the Psychic's feet. Sounds were immediately heard,
the fibers of the basket Wflre creaking, its action was apparent
from the movement of the luminous bands. Walter fretted and
grumbled at what he said was the catching of the basket in the
Psychic's clothing. He said: ''She has a bathrobe on. Why has
4 This was in addition to the meehanieal eontrol.
610 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
she got a bathrobe on at this time of day 1'' Mrs. Davis said,
''To keep from being cold.'' Walter said, ''Well, you have one
on too; and you look like an old Chinese woman." 'l'bis was duo
to the fact that Mrs. Davis had slipped on a short, padded Chinese
coat. The luminous spots soon showed the small basket to be in
free movement in the cabinet, when it must have reached the height
of five feet. Then Walter directed Mrs. Davis to control the
Psychic's right hand, which she did. Bond was instructed to con-
trol the psychic's left hand, which he did. Both affirm that the
hands were wired as at the beginning, according to their feeling,
and were also under their manual control. The basket was mean-
time moving slowly.5 Then Walte1· instnwted .Davis to- come into
the cabinet and cont1·ol Psychic's nwtbth, which he did with his right
hand. The dejinitio1~ of her nose a1td lips was clea1· and the control
was pM·fect. She was sontewhat 1
·estless and moaned occasionally,
in a way disttwbing to hin~ and M1·s. Dcwis. Davis' left sho'ttlder
and a1·1n we1·e n~bbed and toUC~hed by the basket, as it mov-ed out
into the 1·omn, within less than a foot of his eyes. Thus the basket
was obt1·uded f/atwise, into the 1·oom, e%tirely clea1· of the cabinet,
accm·ding to the estimate of Davis. It was finally dropped at Mrs.
Stinson's feet, and the sitters were told to take their original posi-
tions. Walter said that his force was going fast, and, although he
bad suggested that the small basket be placed in the larger one, he
said that be must go. In response to an expression of thanks from
Davis, he said, "No living man could have done these things." 6
He then said goodbye. ·
The Psychic came out of her trance quietly. Davis released
the collar, which was firmly wired. He examined and cut the
wiring of hands and feet. The ·wiring was as originally fastened.
Davis vouches for the firmness and impossible release of all knots,
with which his old training in the telegraph office gave him
experience.
*
:Jot:
* * *
Garland's first visit resulted in the seance of May 19th, which
was regarded as of a preliminary nature; hence, he made no
report. Crandon made his usual record, and Mrs. Richardson
prepared an independent report. The circle was as follows:
Margery, Hamlin Garland, Wallace K. Butler, Crandon, Mrs.
Tapley, Mrs. Hamilton, Mr. J. G. Falkenrath (Sao Paulo,
Brazil), C. S. Hill. Outside the circle: Dr. and Mrs. Richard-
5 Italics by tbe editor.
6 There would seem to be no escape from the verdict of supemorma.lity short of
attacking the validity of the record or the powers of observation of the sitters.
FIVE OUTSTANDING RECORDS OF . 1927 611
son, Mr. Dudley,7
Mr. Bond. Both of the above records are
given in full:
Jltla;y 19th: Cmndm,'s Recor·d. Walter came through promptly
and greeted all the sitters. He then carried out the following
experiments:
(1) Cognition of wooden letters put in·the basket by finger and
thumb of Garland. The letters were named and then thrown out
and the readings were 100 per cent correct.
(2) Rolling of small luminous basket on shelf in front of the
Psychic in red light.
(3) Repetition of same with Garland passing hand a11d forearm
freely between the Psychic and the rolling basket. He at the same
time standing between the rolling basket and all the other sitters.
(4) Demonstration of the independent voice by the use of
Richardson's VCO machine, Falkenrath protecting the luminous
opening· of the voice machine.
The lashings, which had all been done by Garland or Butler,
were now cut by Garland and the head released from the padlock
collar. All were found as originally placed. 'l'he circle now moved
to the old cabinet with Garland on the left and Crandon on the
right. Here Walter carried out the following experiments.
(5) Ringing· of the plate g·lass bell-box both with and without
the turning on of the red light by Walter in the box at the same
time. When this was clone no hand could be seen ringing the bell.
(6) This was now repeated with Garland having control of
both the Psychic's hands, and Mrs. Richardson having control
of both of Crandon's hands.
(7) The S.A. bell-box was now put on the table with the glass
bell-box. Walter now proceeded to: (a) ring the glass bell-box
with its red light on and (b) ring the S.A. bell-box while Mrs.
Richardson turned a complete circle with it in her hands. The
two bells rang simultaneously, the ringing was irregular and inter-
mittent, the boxes were not in rhythm with each other, and
the red light in the room·was turned on during· all these experiments.
(8) Walter made the [Comstock] balances oscillate with a four-
to-one load. The weights were put in either pan at the pleasure
of Garland and the balances oscillated as if equally loaded.
(9.) This was now repeated with Garland holding the complete
balance unit in his hands and turning· a circle of his whole body
with it. As this went on, the white flash light was turned on the
whole outfit and on every part of it and underneath it. While the
balances were thus behaving on the table, at another time, Garland
7 Dudley was so busy about other matters that he failed to complete his record
for this evening.
612 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
passed his hand between the Psychic and the balances, and Mrs.
Richardson did the same between Crandon and the balances.
* * *
Ma;y 19th: Mrs. Richardson's Re;cord. The first part of the
sitting was a regulation glass-cabinet one, the Psychic being lashed
and the knots tied or supervised by newcomers. Trance came on
at once, and Walter joined inthe conversation, saying that Garland
was correct when he stated that often a medium would have one
cold and one warm hand, during a sitting. This, he explained,
was because the controls generally used only one half of the
medium-the right. Followed a 100 per cent performance of:
1. Cognition of letters (trance).
2. Cognition of objects (trance).
3. Rolling of basket in red light (trance).
4. Voice machine (medium awake). Garland sat at medium's
left controlling the letters, etc. [throughout part I of the seance] .
Part 2. Old cabinet, Psychic in trance. Walter rang glass
bell-box, with ·and without its red light, which he operated himself;
rang S.A. bell-box; rang both together, intermittently, irregularly;
while Garland held the S.A. box and turned around with it-all in
good red light. Walter spoke at least twice, in red light.
The experiment with the scales was now performed perfectly.
Garland lifted the apparatus, Mrs. Richardson did likewise, and
thorough examination in white light could show no signs of fraud.
The scales continued to balance a four-to-one load. Walter said,
in response to questions, that he could make visible the cylinder
which holds down the light pan, but that it was unwise to use so
much force.
Hill's first appearance at a sitting after an absence of six
months, called forth from Walter a prolonged and varied whistle
which was equal to a page of words. [There were various remarks
about the health of Hill and Mrs. Hamilton, and the teleplasmic
phenomena revolving about Hill, which Mrs. Richardson recorded
but which are suppressed because of their personal nature. The
record concludes with the observation:] The voice was. particu-
larly strong. and could hardly be called a whisper-more like a
husky tone.
*
The next sitting, in order of their dates, is that reported by
Miss Walker and Mr. Bond, whose record reads as follows:
Ma;y 27, 1927: Record by Bond and Miss Walker.
Note. The apparatus employed at this sitting is new, and has
been made and presented by a recent sitter, Mr. Butler, hitherto
a stranger to Dr. and Mrs. Crandon. The "Theatre" with its
various objects was used on this occasion for the second time
FIVE OUTSTANDING RECORDS OF 1927 613
only and "Walter" the control has not yet had opportunity for
learning how to manipulate the parts with certainty.
Present on this occasion (clockwise). Psychic : Mr. Bligh
Bond (controlling her left hand) : Mrs. Gray: Mr. Rhys Williams:
Miss Gray: Miss May C. Walker: Dr. Crandon (right).
Psychic was disrobed and examined by Mrs. Gray and Miss
Walker and was clad in bathrobe, stockings and shoes only. She
was led to chair in the old cabinet which is built of light wood
framing covered with cloth. There was no mechanical control of
hands, feet or head, as this was not needed in view of the nature of
the phenomena expected.
Trance supervened quickly after the turning out of the red
light at 9 :15. Walter whistled in about two minutes and spoke,
greeting· all the sitters. Phenomena followed as detailed below :
(1) The theatt·e; had been placed on the small rectangular
table rather to the left of Psychic and a little in advance.8 Bond
took charge of the rheostat handle which can give eight grades
of illumination.n The experiment commenced in darkness. Pres-
ently Walter was heard fumbling with the apparatus and he
asked Bond to turn on the dim light. In moving· the rheostat
a flash occurred which disconcerted Walter who said it dissolved
his teleplasm, or his structure. Walter then exclaimed that he
knew there was something wrong as he could not get under the
apparatus to work in front. He said the legs were folded.10
Crandon remembered then that he had omitted to extend the four
legs on which the theatre stands free of table and this was accord-
ingly done. The box now stood several inches clear of the table
top and, at Walter's request, close to the right front angle of
the table top.
(2) The balances were now placed by Crandon on the stage
and the red light switched on. All sitters could plainly see the
balances in silhouette against the red illuminated background.
These balances are made of non-magnetic material, the pans being
of netting and the shaft and beam of glass. 'l'he weights used are
small glass squares. At Walter's request, ten of these were put by
Bond into the pan on right (facing front) and thus holding down
the pan with about 4 ounces weight.11
The net curtain was lower·ed and almost at once the pan was
seen to rise and fall repeatedly, then remain in poise for a period.
Finally the weighted pan was seen to rise for the full height, the
empty pan resting on the bed of the stage. In this position the
scales remained for an appreciable interval. All sitters bad a clear
s Description of theatre omitted; see pp. 598-600. .
o In subsequent seances it will be noted that Walter ordinarily c.ontrolled the
increase and sometimes the decrease in illumination.
10 In its :first form the legs folded. After reconstruction they were macle rigid.
11 Tbe weights had not been checked at that time. Each one weighs approx-
imately :1,8 oz. (Av.) ; therefore, 10 of them would weigh approximately 1'\4 oz. (Av.).
614 l\IIARGERY 1\IIEDIUl\IISHIP
view of the whole of the illuminated field. and all agree that there
was no visible contact of any object with the scales during the
time. No opaque body, filament, or shadow could be seen and the
apparatus seemed to move of its own accord. The net curtain
appeared to be undisturbed. Owing to the position of Psychic
behind the plane of the reel glass she was invisible. Bond certifies
that he maintained control of her left hand and Crandon, the right.
(3) The balances were removed by Crandon and another appa-
ratus consisting of a V-shapecl glass chute making an inclined
plane,12
held on light supports with wire stays, was brought and
placed on the stage. At the lower end of the chute a ball of light
celluloid, translucent, with opaque rings around its equator, was
placed in the trough of the chute. 'l'he net curtain was lower ed as
before and the reel light tunied on by rheostat to give a good
illumination. All parts were clearly visible to every sitter. After
about half a minute's interval the ball was seen to vibrate and
rise little by little, slowly ahd in irregular stages, towards the
center of the height of incline. Then it fell back a short way and
again rose. The ball was seen to be revolving as it went, the
equatorial band turning over. F·inally the ball reached the top of
the incline and after a slow return to a point rather lower than
midway, it dropped suddenly to the base. Again, no foreign body
or any shadow seemed to approach any point of the apparatus and
the illuminated field was nowhere dimmed during the movement
of the ball.
In answer to a question, Walter said that he did not use tele-
plasm for these experiments, but they were performed by with-
drawing energy from each and all of the sitters. He explained
that if he could not get the energy from the sitters he had to take
it from the Psychic but this he tried to avoid. Hence, he pointed
out, it was of great importance that the sitters should be of the
right kind to give theh· energy. Walter aiel that te1eplasm was
not used by him for these experiments. Teleplasm, he reminded
us, was in itself quite inert until vitalized by energy and that is
why he is sometimes quite unable to give motor power to the tele-
plasm. The invisible energy he uses for this can be collected and
localized and he would be able later to lock this inside a sealed
g·lass receptacle (the bell-box being mentioned) and work from
within in white light. All sitters present on this occasion Walter
vouched for as being r eady or able to contribute energy.
(4) Glass Bell-box. 'rhe sisyphus was now removed and the
new glass bell-box presented by Butler was brought. This had
been readjusted by Butler since its last use and the reel bulb light
was not available as it was called for in haste for this occasion.
Unfortunately Crandon, in removing the sisyphus tripped over the
12 The Sisyphus; see p. 601.
FIVE OUTSTANDING RECORDS OF 1927 615
electric conduit ·wire which lay on the floor, and as a result, the red
lamp 13
could not be turned on. The connection was severed.
Walter said it did not matter. "Go ahead," he said, "I shall
know what to do, and you shall see something."
Bond, at Walter's request, found and brought an electric torch
which was handed to Crandon. rrhe bell-box was placed on the
table, which had been shifted to a position directly in front of
the Psychic. Control of both the Psychic's hands was resumed.
Walter now asked the sitters to keep up light ·conversation
whilst he . worked, and not to concentrate too heavily upon him.
The bell then rang, the only illumination being the spark made
within the glass chamber on contact of the metal levers. Walter
asked Miss Walker to place her hand over the Psychic's mouth
during the ringing of the bell. To do this, she had to interpose
herself between Crandon and the bell-box. She stood up and leaned
across Crandon. The Psychic's mouth was closed and the bell
continued to ring whilst Miss Walker's hand was over her mouth.
Walter now called for a handkerchief to be used to moderate
the glare of the torch when used on the bell-box. This was provided
by Crandon who placed it on top of the box. As the bell rang,
Crandon turned the flash upon the box and the bell continued to
ring, all present clearly seeing the box and table top fully illumi-
nated together with the circle of sitters and the Psychic in her
chair. The handkerchief was seen to be suspended over the side
of the box so that the light filtered through it into the box.
Miss Walker now at Walter's request lifted the glass box from
the table in her two hands, the ringing continuing during the period
of lifting. rrhe box was then returned to the table and a second
time Miss Walker was called upon to lift it. This time there was
no handkerchief to break the rays of the torch. As before, nothing
was visible either within or in the neighborhood of the box w}lich
could account by contact for the movement. 'l'he bell continued
ringing whilst held by Miss Walizer, with one or two intermissions
of a marked nature. The whole circle was clearly illuminated and
any physical object within or approaching the bell-box would have
been visible in the bright light. The Psychic was seen r eclining in
her chair and Miss Walker noticed that her mouth was closed.
Walter the:ri. said he must go, and after a few minutes further
conversation, during which he assured Williams of the serious
nature of the intent which underlay his apparently frivolous talk,
the sitting broke up shortly after 11 P.M.
W e, the undersigned, attest the correctness of the foregoing
notes which were drawn up immediately on the termination of the
1s The mantel lamp controlled by a rheostat at Crandon's right. Fortunately
the flash lamp provided adequate illumin.ation.
616 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
sitting by Miss Walker and Bond, and transcribed by Bond on
the following morning.
* * * *
MAY c. WALKER.
FREDERICK BLIGH BoND.
*
This seance of May 27th, 1927, was even more impressive as
regards phenomena and control than the last (May 21st). If
one rules out absolutely fantastic surmise, there
Addendum by was no way in which to account for the movements
Miss Walker of the scales, the ball, or the mechanism of the
bell-box, by normal means. The phenomena hap-
pened right in front of the background of red light in the cases
of the scales and the ball. The wire netting prevented any inter-
ference from the front by the sitters and any such interference,
whether by the Psychic or a sitter, must have been seen. Walter
allowed me to put my hand on the Psychic's mouth while the bell
was ringing on the table, and when I picked up the bell-box in my
hands I could see the Psychic's face and both hands controlled.
Mr. Bligh Bond had control of the Psychic's left hand behind the
little theatre so nothing could be done behind it by manipulation
on the part of the Psychic. During the actual occurrence of all
the phenomena there was maintained a double control of the
Psychic's right hand by Crandon and myself and Crandon's right
hand was grasping my left arm which he also put up to his mouth
to rule out any probability of its use in this connection.
MAY c. WALKER.
* * * *
The next case in this group is the sitting of June lOth, 1927,
for which Garland prepared his oWn. record, which is reproduced
in the Journal, February, 1930. As given below (with the date
added) it conforms to the above with the exception of such
omissions of titles as will make it follow the style of other
records.
In arranging for this sitting I had requested the use of a room
in a neutral home and a control so different that the current
criticisms of methods in Crandon's house
Garland's record of would not hold. I realized that a sitting in
June 10th, 1927 the prepared seance room at 10 Lime Street,
would have far less value than one held in
a place of our choosing, but as I had difficulty in finding such
a place, I suggested, as a compromise, that the sitting be held in
the home of Richardson, whose methods of control had met with
my approval.
FIVE OUTS'l'ANDING RECORDS OF 1927 617
It is only fair to say that I approached this sitting as a seasoned
investigator of more than thirty years' experience, and that I
wm:tld not condemn any psychic on the records of one sitting. I
had held more than two hundred somewhat similar sittings, fifty-
five with one person (a woman); and I knew how little is necessary
to prevent any phenomena which are a subtle mingling of mind
and matter. I had as my official companion in this experiment,
Mrs. Mary Derieux, Secretary to the Research Committee of which
I am Chairman.
So much for preliminaries. We dined at Richardson's house in
Newton, and as neither the Psychic nor her husband was present,
we had perfect freedom to discuss her and her mediumship. Rich-
ardson, who had held many sittings with her, pleased me by his
frankness, his clear thinking, and by his ingenious methods of
testing out phenomena. The only other sitter, Fife, did not arrive
till eight o'clock.
When dinner was finished, I helped Mrs. Richardson clear away
the table, curtain the windows and roll up the rugs, while Mrs.
Derieux met the Psychic and took her to an upper chamber to see
that she brought no apparatus of any kind into the seance room.
A three-folcl screen about five feet high served as cabinet. Over
the top of this we placed a cloth. The table I shoved against the
door leading to the kitchen, and in the little den off the dining
room, which had no outlet but a window, we placed our stenog-
rapher. She had a shaded lamp and the door was nearly closed,
during most of the sitting.
In an arm chair between the wings of the screen I placed the
Psychic; and with the aid of Mrs. Derieux passed a tape around
each of her wrists. 'l'his tape, at my request, was stitched by Mrs.
Richardson to the sleeve of the Psychic's kimono. I then folded the
tape tightly, doubled it and hammered a tack down through both
folds of the tape and the kimono, thus securing each wrist to the
chair arm by loops in the middle of the tape. There were no knots
to be untied. The two ends were then carried out to the side and
firmly tacked to the floor. All discussion of knots or ''trick
handcuffs'' or ''trick screw-eyes'' was eliminated.
Mrs. Derieux, under my direction, passed another tape twice
around each of the Psychic's ankles and joining the ends of this
tape to the ends of the tape which confined her hands, I tacked them
to the floor together. 'l'he feet (which were clothed in stockings
and slippers) had more play than the hands, but I was not greatly
concerned about this, for we were after phenomena r elating to
the hands.
Mrs. Derieux then tied a ribbon tightly (too tightly I feared)
around the Psychic's neck and knotted it to the high back of her
chair. The play of her head was only a few inches at most.
'l'o all this the Psychic submitted cheerfully although the heat
was intense and her position necessarily most uncomfortable.
618 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Fife had brought with him several sheets of paper especially
prepared to receive finger-prints, and also some cakes of wax to
be used for the same purpose. A kettle of hot water and a dish and
cloth were in readiness as was also Richardson's voice-cut-out
machine and a small basket with illuminated handle. The doors
were then closed and we took our places.
Fife controlled the Psychic's right hand and I her left, and
when I say controlled, I mean that I held it so firmly that it could
not and did not participate in any of the phenomena.
Mrs. Derieux at next to Fife; Richardson was in the center
and controlled the light, which had a red as well as a white bulb.
From this point I will follow the notes made by the stenog-
rapher, who set down what we called out to her. She sat in the
den with the door only a few inches ajar and did not emerge until
the sitting· was over.
Immediately after the light wen£ out, Walter whistled merrily
as if signalling his presence and then, in a curious guttural tone,
took charge of the sitting. At his request I moved a basket con-
taining several wooden letters from my right and placed it in front
of the Psychic's feet. I had no knowledge of what these letters
were. While each of us reported ''hand control perfect,'' Walter
could be heard manipulating the basket.
Walter throws out a letter and says it is a Z. Garland picks
it up and announces that it is a Z. Walter throws out a second
letter and says it is a Z. Correct. Walter throws out a third letter
and says it is an M. This is confirmed by Mrs. Derieux. A fourth
letter is thrown out and is said to be an 0, and this confirmed.
Walter then passed the basket to Garland. (Later one of the
Z 's was found to be an N-a mistake easily to be understood.)
Let us stop for a moment and analyoo these very simple
phenomena, reported as they happened, for they have important
implications. The room was very dark. The Psychic not only
wore stockings, but slippers with a strap across the instep. Her
anldes were twice encircled with tape and the tape was nailed to the
:floor. The doubter will be forced to either one or the other of two
charges : either that the Psychic kicked these letters from the
basket and identified them as they fell, or that some one in the
circle acted as confederate. So far as the Psychic's hands were
concerned, they had nothing to do with the manipulation of these
letters. If she identified them with the tips of her slippers, she did
very well. This precise perception of objects in the dark is one
I have often noted in other psychics. It is inexplicable to me.
However, the phenomena we most desired were finger-prints on
the paper or on the wax. I resume the notes.-
Fife places on a small table in front of the Psychic, a package of
plain white paper for finger-prints. At the request of Walter, Fife
turns the paper over. Walter then said that he had placed both
his hands on the two topsheets of the paper.
FIVE OUTSTANDING RECORDS OF 1927 619·
At this point we broke the circle. Richardson lit the red bulb
and Fife removed two sheets of the paper from the top and one
from the bottom. We then resumed control. 1'he Psychic appeared
to be in a trance with her hands and feet exactly as I had confined
them.
At Walter's request the small basket with illuminated handlL~
is placed on the table by Garland, and the large basket is placed
on the floor in front of the Psychic. In the basket Mrs. Derieux
at Walter's request places two objects. Hand control perfect.
Walter stated that an object placed in the basket was a lady's
handkerchief. Correct. Walter throws out unexpectedly another
letter and says it is an L. Correct. Walter also throws out a
piece of money from the basket and names it correctly. (It was
a silver quarter, I believe, and to touch this with her toes was the
Psychic's only possible connection with it.)
At this point the small basket on the table began to move and
we all bent over to see if we could detect a cause for it. Mrs.
Derieux and Fife both reported two white prongs around the
handle of the basket. I could see only a wavering, swiftly darting
shadow. The basket fell and was replaced by Mrs. Derieux. It
had a feeble, agitated movement as though a very slight force were
operating against it.
Basket now rolls over to the left; control is announced to be
perfect.
At the suggestion of Richardson (or Walter), I now put my
hand over the Psychic's mouth so that it could not be said that she
blew the basket over, or operated a rod with her teeth. This is
the only time that I released control of her hand during a critical
period.
With control resumed, every hand in the circle being clasped,
the basket was lifted and shaken and waved about in the air. There
was a convulsive movement of the Psychic's knees, at one time, but
her left hand remained tightly clasped in mine and Fife reported
the same control of her right hand. So far as her left hand was
concerned she had nothing to do with the handling of the basket.
Basket falls upon the floor and Walter throws a small object
across the room and says, ''There's a piece of your basket.'' The
big basket was thrown out in front of the Psychic and lands in
Mrs. Derieux's lap. (Later this piece of the basket was found
and identified by Mrs. Derieux.)
At this point the light was turned on. We examined the fasten-
ings and found them undisturbed, except that one of the smaller
tacks had given way. The Psychic's feet were in her slippers and in
the same position as when I looped the tape around her ankles.
The .straps of her slippers were buttoned and the tapes undis-
turbed. The ribbon around her neck was precisely as we had
tied it and the tacks and stitches of the tapes on her wrists were
unchanged.
620 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
All the phenomena, thus far, were familiar to me. I had
recorded much more startling telekinetic happenings under much
sterner test conditions scores of times, hence I was a bit disap-
pointed. I was eager to find the finger-prints which Walter had
said were on the paper, this was the novelty to which I addressed
my interest.
We now passed to the experiments with the wax. It must be
borne in mind that while the Psychic was free of her bonds, she
remained seated in her chair and her hands were controlled by Fife
and myself. If she had any part in what followed the fault is our
own. I can answer for her left hand.
While the red light was on, Fife placed a shallow dish on the
small table in front of the Psychic, who sat silent with lax hands
and averted face. Into this dish Richardson poured some hot
water, and Fife laid across the dish a band of folded cloth a few
inches wide. This was to receive the tablets of wax on which we
hoped to get finger-prints.
Under Fife's direction Mrs. Derieux now placed on the cloth
one of the marked pieces of wax. Walter said the water was not
hot enough. Fife added some more. Walter then said, ''Gee, that
water's hot!"
The light was turned out and I resumed control of the Psychic's
left hand. Fife declared his control of the right equally firm.
Walter called for the red light saying, ''The water is too hot.''
As the red light was again turned on, we found the cloth out of
the dish and on the table. This surprised me for I supposed it to
be in the dish.
If Walter did this, as the notes give it, this is the most sig-
nificant of all the happenings up to this moment, for to take this
cloth from the dish and place it where it lay, required the use of
two hands. I am not certain however, that the order of events is
precisely as here set down. The experiment with the wax failed on
account of the hot water which had melted it, and it may be that
Fife had lifted it out in preparation for a second experiment. On
this point I must remain noncommittal.14
There now remained the very valuable experiment with the
voice-cut-out machine. This was of particular interest to me for
I had carried on many experiences with these voices in broad day-
light and in the dark with trumpets and without trumpets, but
had never quite satisfied myself that the psychic15 speech organs
and the ' 'spirit voice'' were entirely disconnected.
a The eloth is usually found on the table after the wax has been removed from
the hot-water dish (that is what the cloth is for: to assist in drawing the wax from
the dish). Fife states (in .a supplementary report) that when Walter asked for
red light he (Fife) found the wax on the cloth on the table, removed the wax and
put it on the mat outside the circle. He added, subsequently, that he did not touch
the cloth after placing it in the dish, and prior to this latter action.
15 Probably this should read ''psychic's.''
FIVE OUTSTANDING RECORDS OF 1927 621
The voice-cut-out machine is quite simple. A wide flat glass
mouthpiece at· the end of a rubber tube connects with two tall
upright glass tubes in which some illuminated balls are suspended.
While the Psychic blows into the tube, these balls are held in
unstable equilibrium. I placed the mouthpiece between the Psy-
chic's lips and resumed control of her left hand while Mrs. Derieux
held her palm above the open end of the upright glass tube, thus
doing away with the suggestion that the balls were moved by
someone from the top.16
Under these test conditions while the Psychic's breath was
busied with the tube, Walter whistled and sang and spoke much
more clearly than at any other time during the evening. Appar-
ently the Psychic's organs of speech had nothing to do with the
production of this voice, and as I have held speech with a similar
"spirit voice" in a sun-lit room, I am not disposed to charge
anyone in the circle with deception.
At the close of the sitting, we addressed ourselves to the finger-
prints. Under the white light, Fife brushed powdered charcoal
over the two sheets of paper which had been taken from the top
of the pa~ket, and on which Walter declared he had placed both
his hands. Slowly, as we watched, Fife uncovered eight finger-
prints which he declared had been made during the sitting·.17 Upon
later study he decided that the thumbprints were "Walter's"
and. not those of any person in the circle. Certainly they were
not those of the Psychic. She did not lift her left hand from the
chair arm, during any of the critical moments of the seance.18
While the ~ontrol was not as perfect as I could have made it
with more time, and the circle slightly larger than I had planned
it, the conditions were such as to break the
General C01'hSiderations force of all the criticisms made against
the procedure at 10 Lime Street. First of
all Crandon must be counted out, and unless we are to consider
Fife and Richardson as confederates, this sitting under my own
control removes all talk of a trick cabinet, trap doors, and the like.
There was no sugg·estion of fraud. 'l'he Crandons appeared most
willing that Mrs. Derieux and I should have the best possible oppor-
tunity for testing Walter's powers, and it is only justice to say
16 The writer seems to have missed the point. The tube is guarded to prevent
normal closure of the open end after the water column is unbalanced, thus stabilizing
the column in that position. The floats· are co1·ks carrying match-sticks covered with
luminous paint.
11 Fife describes these as "latent" prints which should be developed pTompt1y
"with proper powder." The powdered charcoal (made at the time) was not fine
enough to complete the development. He says there were prints of 8 fingers and
both thumbs.
1s This is a curious statement. The determination of whether the :finger-print
pattern is that of one person or another is by a comparison of the ridge patterns.
Perhaps he meant to absolve Margery from any participation in the normal produc-
tion of the prints. If so, he appears to have been very successful.
622 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
so. We are to have another sitting on entirely neutral territory
with only the Richarclsons, myself and two assistants present. This
will eliminate other of the criticisms which lie against our sitting
at Richardson's.
It is only in this way, by many tests repeated many times, that
any conclusion can be reached. No man by a single sitting can
render a judgment for or against a medium hip so baffling and so
candid. After hundreds of similar experiments, I am certain of
only one fact and that is that these phenomena belong to the field
of unexplored biology.
:){:
*
The second Garland sitting occurred nearly three months
later but in the interests of continuity in the treatment of these
reports it can best be given at this point. While it involves
the presentation of a finger print in wax, the latter experiment
occupies such a small portion of the seance, that it seems unde-
sirable to segregate it from the balance of the seance action.
Although Garland had obtained excellent evidence of super-
normal action under his own control, he felt that there might
be room for some objections to the conditions because the
seance had been held in the home of a friend of the Crandon's.
With the idea of meeting and overcoming any such criticism
he arranged to have Margery sit at the residence of a friend
of his, with whom the Crandons had no prior acquaintance.
The personnel for this seance was selected by Garland, save
that Crandon wished to have one person present who might be
regarded as representing the Psychic. Crandon was satisfied
to name Fife, and Garland felt that no one who would be satis-
factory to Crandon would be less open to criticism from other
quarters. Garland was not limited as to the control that he
might use, except by the agreement that it should not cause
injury to Margery.
Garland was Chairman of the Research Committee of the
.A..S.P.R., and this seance was a part of his official program. He
left with the Society a stenographic record of the seance and a
paraphrase of this record which includes comments as to his
reactions to the phenomena. From the latter it would appear
that he is certain that the Psychic's hands had no normal part
in the phenomena, but l.n view of the nature of the control and
FIVE OUTSTANDING RECORDS OF 1927 623
the text of the stenographic record it would seem that a more
inclusive verdict might have been reached. Bird noted that
Garland added certain longhand notes to the copy of the steno-
graphic notes, and these have been inserted as foot notes in the
.subjoined presentation of the record.19
September 1, 1927, 64 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, lVIass.
It is understood between Crandon and the sitters that all
sitters shall sign these dictated notes as written; and that any
additions thereto shall be put in as notes at the end, each one
signed by the dictator thereof. It is further understood that these
notes contain everything of significance that happened at the sitting.
Sitters clockwise ·were: Mr. Hamlin Garland, Mrs. Jennie
l;eRoyer Chamberlin, Dr. Frederick Peterson, Mr. Joseph E. Cham-
berlin, Mrs. Frederick PBterson, Mr. John W. Fife, and Margery.
The sitting began at 9 :00 P.M.
'rhe lashings were as follows: Garland nailed the sleeve of
Psychic's kimono to the chair with long tacks.20
In addition to this
a tape eighteen feet long was looped about Psych~c 's wrist, stitched
to the kimono, nailed to the arm of the chair, and the ends were
then carried back several feet and nail€d to the floor. As a further
precaution, a second tape was tied in a square knot to each wrist
and the ends of the tape carried around over and uncler the arms
of the chair and then the ends nailed to the floor on each side,
out of reach of Psychic. In the same way the ankles were encircled
by the tape, nailed to the :fl.oor21
at her feet, and then the ends were
carried out of Psychic's reach and nailed to the floor.
'rrance came on at 9 :10 and Walter appeared whistling mer-
rily and greeted the sitters. Fife told Walter that he expected a
finger-print, and Walter whistled. Walter then asked for tha
basket with the letters in it. Garland reached back for the basket
and placed it in front of the ·Psychic's feet, and then resumed his
control of her left hand. Walter moved the basket, and said,
''Hello, Garland, how are you~ '' Walter then threw a letter from
the basket which he identified as an M. Garland picked up the
letter and said he thought it to be a W. Walter asked him to
hold it up and said, "You're right, my boy, it is a W." Walwr
then threw out another letter and identified it as being a Z, and
this was confirmed by Fife. Other letters thrown out and named
correctly by Walter wer-
e: X, R, another Z, and a number 8.
Garland could not find the letter R when it was thrown out of
10 The record is altered only to the extent necessary to make the style conform
to that of other reports (i.e., omission of titles in the text).
20 Garland nailed the sleeves of the Psychic's kimono to the chair with four
long tacks to each wrist.
21 Some slight movement was possible for the Psychic's feet but they were
clothed in silk stockings and slippers with straps over the ankles.
624 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the basket, and, therefore, Walter told him to look behind his
chair, which he did, and there he found the letter.22
·Walter then passed the basket to Garland and asked him
to put some object in it. Control is broken while each sitter places
some object in the basket for identification by Walter. Garland
then placed the basket under the table, several feet from the
Psychic, at Walter's request. Control is then resumed. Walter
is then heard to reach for the basket. The first object identified
was a spectacle case belonging to Mrs. Chamberlin; the second,
a bottle of pills confirmed by Fife; the third, a pair of scissors
in a little case, confirmed by Chamberlin; the fourth, a poker chip,.
confirmed by Garland; the fifth object was described by Walter
as being as large as a Canadian five-cent piece, having many slits,
and very much like a Chinese coin. He then dropped it into
Garland's hand. This turned out to he a Washington token for
a street car. Walter's description of it was entirely correct.
Walter then threw out a letter N which was confirmed, and then
he dropped the basket on the floor. Garland picked up the basket
and placed it on the table and then put another object into the
basket. The basket can be heard moving around and then Walter
dropped the object on to the floor and said it looked like a part
of a watch chain. Garland asked Walter to examine the ends of
it and Walter requested him to put it in the metal dish on the
table, about 3 feet away from the Psychic. Walter put it in
Garland's hand and then Garland put it in· the dish. Walter
identified one end as being different from the other and said that
there was a groove in the middle of it. This object turned out
to be a curiosity23 of some kind which Walter had never seen before.
Fife then broke his control in order to put some. hot water ·r
in the dish on the table in preparation for the making of finger-
prints. Garland asked for a left finger-print, and Walter said 24 !"'"
he would give him one. The hot water was put in the dish, with
the cold water dish beside it. Walter asked Fife to break a piece
of wax in half, which he did. Control resumed. In about forty-five
seconds something was heard to drop into the dish and Walter
told Garland to put his hand in the cold water dish. Garland
did as he was requested and removed a piece of wax and laid it on
the table in back of him. The red light was turned on more brightly
and the cloth was found outside the dish and folded up in a roll and
there was no wax in the dish containing the hot water.
22 The piece which Walter took for the figure eight was the letter B, of
similar shape.
2a The object turned out to be a printer's quad of a kind that Walter had
never seen before; it had the Lord's Prayer in microscopic form on one end and a
groove on the side.
24 The report in the Journal, February, 1930, quotes Walter as saying, "You
don't want much, do you?" Fife notes that this print was of the Walter right
thumb.
FIVE OUTSTANDING RECORDS OF 1927 62&
Garland then moved the illuminated basket, with the doughnut
in it, to the center of the table. The basket was levitated and .
moved in a circle. Mrs. Peterson said she saw something that looked
like a cloud around the basket. Walter then passed the luminous
doughnut to Garland. Garland placed the doughnut on the table
and Walter levitated the doughnut in the air, above the basket, and
then down below the table, almost to the :floor. Then it slowly
rose and went towards Garland. Walter wished to give it to
Garland, but he did not take it and it dropped to the floor. Garland
picked up the doughnut and put it on the table.25
Walter asked Mrs. Peterson to put her nose in the doughnut.
Mrs. Peterson did as she was requested and Walter pulled her hair.
Walter then threw the basket from the table on to the :floor and
then it slowly rises and is then in a standing position about two
feet in front of Fife. Walter requested that Garland put his nose
in the doughnut, which he did and he felt something ruffle his hair.
Mrs. Chamberlin put her nose in the doughnut and Walter touched
her head with the basket. The basket is then levitated up in front
of Psychic, put on the table and then on the floor and is moved a
considerable distance from Psychic's feet. Red light was turned
on during the entire sitting. (It was however very dim. Most of
the circle was perfectly dark. Mr. Garland remarked that the
darkness made the test of the coin all the more valuable.)
The sitting closed at 10:25 P.M.
Mrs. Chamberlin searched the Psyche before and after the
sitting, to her satisfaction.
The lashings were examined by Garland and found as they
were at the beginning of the sitting. Garland added the follow-
ing longhand note: ''A tack-hammer was necessary to free the
Psychic's hands and feet.''
25 Garland asked Walter to show his hand above the illuminated disk. Walter
did so but his hand was only in the shadow.
CHAPTER LII
Teleplasmic Structures and Telekinesis
The preceding chapters on telekinesis have been devoted to
a record of the effects observed and.the circumstances, more
or less detailed, surrounding their presentation, but there has
been no adequate discussion of the means by which they are
produced. Perhaps nothing more than a tentative hypothesis
may be advanced at this time to cover the functioning of these
telekinetic mechanisms; nevertheless, by collating some of the
more important observations of the experiment~rs in this field,
we may arrive at a better understanding of this phase of the
subject.
The physical phenomena of mediumship present many exam-
ples of the action of force in the absence of any visible or tan-
gible mechanism by or through which such forces can be
normally applied. Yet, if a body is moved we know that a force
has been exerted and, given the necessary data, we can deter-
mine its intensity and direction. Sometimes, under particularly
favorable conditions, we see the mechanisms (or parts of them)
of telekinesis. At other times the camera records the presence
of an otherwise invisible structure. More often, however, these
structures are not seen and we postulate their presence in the
· light of the observed effects.
Irrespective of whether such structures are visible or invis-
ible the scientifically-minded investigator endeavors to deter-
mine their origin, study their modes of application and evaluate
their effects, so that they may be properly related to the general
body of scientific knowledge.
It was in pursuance of this method that Dr. Crawford, by
·Carefully conducted experiments and exacting analysis of the
results; endeavored to bring the subject of telekinesis out of
t he shadowy realm of the mysterious and into the domain of
626
TELEPLASMIC STRUC'l'URES AND TEL,EKINESIS .627
physics and mechanics. As a result of his studies of the psychic
structur~s of the Goligher circle he found that the psychic
"operators" made an intelligent adaptation of the means to
the end; that the psychic structures were proportioned to the
weight and size of the objects to be controlled or to the nature
of the desired movement, and were adaptable to the widest range
of percussion effects. Thus, the smaller rods, such as were used
for levitating the lighter objects, could produce sounds like the
tapping of a pencil or those made by a bouncing ball; while
the larger structures might be used in imitation of a trotting
horse or to produce ''sledge-hammer'' blows which shook the
whole house.
From the literature of this subject we learn that many expe-
rienced metapsychists assert the reality of both the visible and
invisible teleplastic structures, and that they have presented a
very considerable amount of carefully documented evidence,
with excellent photographic and instrumental records, in sup-
port of their contentions.1
The form variables of these psychic structures seem to be
limitless, as are their concomitant qualities. They may simulate
mechanical structures, simple or fabricated filaceous materials,
as well as the whole range of "living" organisms from the
simplest to the most complex. Thus, we find them manifesting
as animal or bird forms; as fragmentary and apparently dis-
connected anatomical members, or as a complete and seemingly
living human being such as "Katie King." They may suddenly
change their shape, color or density, appear glass-like or opaque,
become self-luminous, or produce a wide variety of tactual or
thermal sensations. Yet, in all their varied manifestations,
they are characterized by the power to appear and disappear
with astonishing rapidity, leaving behind no traces of their
fleeting presence except in the memory of the observers, unless
one is fortunate enough to record their forms by photography
1 See Ectoplasm and Clai?·voyance, by Dr. Gustave Geley; Thi1·ty Y ea1·s of
Psychical Resea1·ch, by Prof. Ohas. R,iehet; Phenomena of Mate?·ialization, by Baron
Scluenck von N otzing; also, Expm·iments in Psychical Science and The Psy chi~t
Stntct1m·cs of the Goligher Ci?·C.Ze, by Dr. W. J. Crawford. See also vol. 1.
628 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
Qr in some plastic substance, or their energetic effects by
instrumental means.2
Teleplasm may exud~ from the surface of the body or from
the natural orifices as a gas, a liquid, a "plastic protoplasmic
paste," or as threads (such as the "cobweb" effects so often
referred to) ; but it is also possible that it may be taken out
in the form of energy (the fundamental energy or electrical
-charges comprising the atom) and then organized into any of
the multitudinous forms noted above. We may assume that
such an energy, manifesting while thus temporarily released
from its matrix of matter, may be used directly or indirectly
(as a catalyst) on the ether or the gases of the air to produce
certain energy transformations; electrical, magnetic and lumi-
nous effects, psychic odors, or inorganic structures2
a such as
have been described by Crookes and others. But quite irrespec-
tive of whether these metapsychic phenomena are of the ener-
getic type, as described above, or are effected by the use of
visible or invisible structures they seem to be conditioned by a
psychic energy which is directed toward the attainment of a
definite goal. Such a goal may be the production of .certain
phenomena (in which case the urge may come from the medium
directly or through suggestion from the sitters) or, as seems
to be the case with the Margery mediumship, it may be proof
of the independence of the "psychic operator."
Among the most interesting manifestations of this teleplas-
mic substance are those resembling threads or fabric. The for-
mer sometimes emanate from the fingers, as noted in the cases
of Eva C. and Stanislawa Tomczyk. Ochorowicz, who made
2 See Harry Price's valuable paper on The1·mal Va1·iations, given at the Third In-
t ernational Congress o£ Psychical Research, Paris, 1927, reviewed in Journal A.S.P.R.,
November, 1927; also Mr. Price's article in this Jou1·nal, May, 1924, on his experi-
ments with Stella C., which have placed the phenomenon of temperature variations
in connection with mediumistic phenomena on an experimental basis. A further
record dealing with energetic phenomena is found in the book E1tili Sohneide1·, by
the same author, and in his articles in the Jo1t1·nal, January-July, 1930.
2a The t erm 'teleplastic' is more inclusive than teleplasmic; since the former
-also includes those forms wllich may not be composed of substance drawn from the
organism of the medium or sitters; e.g., st1·uctures which seem to be composed of
inorganic matter, yet appear and disappear as mysteriously as do the teleplasmic
forms.
I
J
TELEPLASMIO STRUCTURES AND TELEKINESIS 629
a careful study of the latter's mediumship, referred to these
thread-like forms as "rigid rays," and some of the best exam-
ples of his photographs of these remarkable phenomena have
been reproduced by Richet ;8 two groups in particular being most
interesting. Two pictures show,4 respectively, scissors and a
match-box suspended in a manner that is strongly suggestive
of a normal thread connected to the hands of the medium but,
as Richet points out, the negatives are sharp and prove that no
visible thread was present. Presumably there was a filament
of some sort but (like most of the structures of the Goligher
circle) it was invisible. Richet emphasizes the fact 5 that the
photographic image of certain teleplasmic threads is discon-
tinuous. This may be interpreted to mean that certain parts
of the structure (which might be described as nodal points)
were sufficiently condensed to record in the negative, while the
remainder was not so organized as to reflect light.
Schrenck-Notzing refers to Crawford's report of these
thread-like forms and to his own observations with Tomczyk ;6
while Commandant Darget 7 describes the production of visible
teleplasmic threads by Eva C. A double-page cut (Fig. 129)
shows a considerable mass of teleplasm presented by the latter
medium, which seems to be supported by a cylindrical cord of
darker teleplasm. The latter appears to be semi-rigid and is
twisted and knotted in a most peculiar manner. Geley8 gives
an excellent description of the variations in color, size, rigidity,
and other characteristics of these threads which he observed
during his experiments with Eva C.
. A more recent case is reported by Professor Blacher, Uni-
versity of Riga, in Zeitschrift fiir Parapsychologie, October,
1931; in connection with his experiments with the medium Mrs.
Ideler. The threads were examined microscopically and chem-
3 Loc. cit., Figs. 11 and lla, opposite p. 424, and Figs. 12 and 13 following.
Also pp. 428, 432, 437, 440 ·and 441; also .Annals des Sciences Psychiques, 1919,
v. 19, p. 82, by Prof. Bozzano.
4 The first two mentioned above.
5 P. 440, Zoo. cit.
6 Loc. cit., pp. 276-7.
7 Loc. cit., p. 325.
s Loo. cit., pp. 184-5.
630 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ically with very interesting results, as will be seen from a
perusal of the preliminary report ·which has been reprinted in
the Jou1·nal, A.S.P.R., February, 1932.
When such cords. or filaments seem to be rigid they are often
very smooth and resemble wires. Some of the photographs.
made at the British College of Psychic Science, .and others made
by Dr. Hamilton, in Winnipeg, present such effects very clearly.
So deceptive are these appearances that acceptance of their
supernormal character rests very largely on the testimony of
the investigators and the photographer as to the conditions of
control.
There were notations that thread or hair-like manifestations
occurred during the early stages of the Margery mediumship
but they did not seem to play a very important part in the phe-
nomena until the winter of 1924-5. Crandon's record for
December 3rd, 1924, describes the small megaphone as floating
freely in the cabinet, and without apparent means of support
although viewed repeatedly in red light, and that during one
of these red-light inspections a flash-light photograph was taken
by Conant.9
This photograph does not show any trace of a
supporting mechanism, although the record states that a quartz
lens was used. Another photograph, not published, shows the
same megaphone levitated in much the same manner but sup-
ported by a white cord similar in size and appearance to that
which is seen in connection with the voice mechanism. It seems
proper to assume that the :first-named levitation was also a
function of a teleplasmic cord, although invisible. During the
seance of January 13, 1925, when a mosquito-net covered frame
was on the table, covering a luminous doughnut and other arti-
cles, Crandon reported seeing ''two black shadows like that of
knitting needles, across half the luminous ring, and once the
1·ing moved slightly.'' The parallelism with the ''rigid rays'' of
Ochorowicz is interesting. During the sitting of July 25tht
1925 (according to dictaphone report) ail the sitters concurred
in noting that the white cord,10
extending from the Psychic's
9 M. M., p. 468.
. 10 See pp. 206ft' and Figs. 16, 17, 18 and 19.
TELEPLASl\IIIC STRUCTURES AND TEL·EKINESIS 631
right ear to the voice mechanism that rested on her shoulder,
stretched and contracted·as she moved her head. This observa-
tion was made in a two-minute period of red light. At another
seance, when the above-mentioned cord was under examination,
Richardson noted that it felt like cold cooked spaghetti. In
general, the visual and tactual examinations of this substance
as well as the photographic records of its many appearances in .
thread-like forms, indicate that it is denser and more massive
than most normal threads of this sizeY
The various forms in which it manifests are too numerous
to mention in a short introduction, but there is another which
has several points of unusual interest. During the glass-cabinet
sitting of October 19, 192'6, the small basket was being held
"by some attachment or grip a little way in front of the Psy-
·Chic's left foot and on looking down from above, without leaving
hold of the Psychic's left hand, I (Bond) observed moving
.across the 'd-nut' over its surface, what had the appearance
·Of a series of clark fibers knitted into a kind of rope about an
inch in average breadth but irregular and in one or two places
seemingly divided into strands. . . . Both seemed to emanate
from the neighborhood of Psychic's left ankle." The luminous
d-nut was on the floor near the Psychic's left foot.
As another indication of the many forms of this substance
we may quote from Bircl's report of the seance of July 16th;
1925, during which it was noted that the temperature and humid-
ity were very high, and that Walter had indicated that the
oppressive heat prevented him from working with the melted
paraffin. Bird states that, throughout three evenings, he "was
driven to constant rubbing and scratching of his face by a
sensation different from anything he has ever before experi-
enced through heat alone, and which he thought might corre-
spond to Margery's 'cobwebs'" (seeM. M., p. 193). This fits
in well with Walter's statement of a later elate, to the effect
that the teleplasm melt~ and runs down, and may appear as
11 Where a normal thread bangs in an irregular form the teleplasmic threads
give the impression of being very heavy for their diameter, and as though there were
none of the residual stresses which cause fabricated structures to kink ancl twist.
632 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
threads; also that he takes his energy out through the pores.
It is interesting to note that those from whom "'Walter has said
he can take energy have, at times, and under certain tem-
perature conditions, felt this same "cobweb" effect without,
apparently, associating it in any way with a withdrawal of
energy.
Another interesting item dealing with these thread-.like
structures is found in C. S. Hill's report of the seance of August
19, 1925. Without an apparent context in this or any earlier
seance reports, Walter stated: ''Of course sometimes one may
see a string or what looks like a string in some phenomena.
That doesn't mean a fraudulent string. It's like the cord to
the ectoplasm. Some day I'll make a string like that from
the Kid's head, down her back and then up front and let you
photograph it.''
\i\Then such phenomena are merely observed, and not syste-
matically studied, there is a tendency on the part of certain
critics to interpret them in terms of fraud, on the assumption
that if a structure looks as though it were of normal origin it
must be of normal production; hence, it is quite unnecessary to
learn whether it is or is not what it appears to be. In this con-
nection it may not be out of place to quote Geley's cautionary
statement, based on long experience with these anomalous
structures :
''Another fact that may give the appearance of fraud is the
strange aspect of the ectoplasmic substance. It may assume the
likeness of more or less visible filaments, giving the unaccus-
tomed observer the impression of threads intended to move an
object fraudulently. At other times it assumes the appearance
of light woven stuff like muslin, and photography shows the
web. This has often been thought proof of fraud in cases of
quite genuine metapsychic phenomena.'' 12
Perhaps the most difficult of all these visible structures to
evaluate are those which appear spontaneously and simulate
normal threads, wires or anatomical members. In the absence
12 See Geley, loo. cit., p. 21.
TELEPLASMIC STRUCTURES AND 'l'EL,EKINESIS 633
of control a determination could hardly be made unless there
were certain anomalies in the form, color or behavior of the
structures which would be sufficiently definitive of their normal
or supernormal origin. The rarity of such phenomena as com-
pared to those in ·which the telekinetic mechanisms are invisible,
·warrants a somewhat fuller treatment of the seances in which
visible structures appear.
* * *
The foregoing discussion finds a specific application in the
phenomena presented at the sitting of July 15th, 1927, in con-
nection with some of Butler's apparatus. The fact that the
phenomena were presented in the light and in an enclosed space
which was at a higher temperature than the very warm roo~,
may have been instrumental in bringing the operating mech-
anism into visibility; whereas, in other seances, similar effects
were produced without any suggestion of a visible structureY
Before presenting the records of this sitting it is necessary
to describe a new device that Butler brought on that evening:
The Pendul~tm. This consists of a glass standard, supported
on a frame of brass angles, carrying a horizontally pivoted
member at its upper end. This latter member is a tube about
11
/ 61 inch diameter and 2'% inches long. From a point near the
front end a 1
/ winch brass wire depends, to which is affixed a
red celluloid ball 2% inches diameter. Near the back end of
this pivoted member a similar wire projects upward and is
cast into a lead counterweight, the top of which is a little less
than 1% inches from the center of oscillation. The center of
the pendulum bob is about 7 3
/1a inches below the pivot. The
unbalanced weight of these elements, measured at the center of
the pendulum bob, is 32 grains. If the pendulum is deflected
through an arc of 30° and released it will oscillate from 17 to
1s The temperature of the enclosed stage would be higher than that of the room,
since the heat from four 16 c.p. lamps was focussed on the back-drop. This would
raise the temperature a certain amount, even though a considerable resistance was
connected in series with the lamps. No temperature reading was taken on the
evening in question, but it was uncomfortably hot in the seance room. The out-
door temperature at noon was 92°; there was but little wind; while the Weather
Bureau records show that the barometer stood at 29.98 inches, the humidity was
80 per cent. It is probable that the room temperature was not less than 90° F.
634 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
20 times before coming to rest. Therefore, the system is rela-
tively free from friction. If a force of 1.2 ounces (av.) is
applied horizontally at a point on the counterweight arm % inch
from the center of the pivot, it will deflect the pendulum through
an arc of 35°. The pendulum bob will move about 4 inches while
the short arm moves less than· 5
/s2inch.
If the above force is applied through a thread of No. 60
sewing cotton and the latter is permitted to become slack while
supported13 inches from the pendulum, it assumes an irregular
catenary curve. There are kinks and irregularities in the
thread due to residual internal stresses. If, however, a well-
stretched braided cord or silk thread is used the curve is much
smoother. If such a thread is subjected to a tension of as much
as 8 grains (hardly enoug;h to produce a barely perceptible
deflection of the pendulum) it remains almost straight when the
pendulum is approximately in its central position.
If such a pendulum bob is to be deflected within the approxi-
mate limits described it is evident that the most suitable and
most economical structure for the purpose will be of the order
noted above, and that, wholly aside from any question of normal
or supernormal operation, we should expect that the operating
mechanism would be thread-like.
The applications of the above data will be seen in connection
with the phenomena reported in connection with this and simi-
lar seances.
* * * * *
Three reports were made after the seance: by Crandon, Bird
and Dudley. If it be recognized that Crandon was dependent
very largely on the statements of others for his knowledge of
what was going on on the stage, and that his record is, therefore,
the result of his interpretation of those statements added to
such observations as he could make directly, it will be seen that
the three records are in general agreement as to the facts. The
detailed differences are pointed out and discussed wherever this
seems necessary. Since this is one of the few instances in
·which the mechanisms of telekinesis seem to have come out into
TELEPLASMIC STRUCTURES AND TEL·EKINESIS 635
visibility under excellent conditions for observation, it has
seemed best to give the reports in full.
The apparatus used was the Little Theatre,14
the glass bal-
ances/5 and the pendulum. The Theatre had been recon-
structed, and, together with the pendulum, was brought to Lime
Street on the evening of the seance. In accordance with But-
ler's statement, these devices were never out of his sight until
put to use in the seance room.
The arrangement of the apparatus in the vicinity of the
cabinet is sho·wn in Fig. 2, page 652. A low bench was placed in
front of the table to provide room for such apparatus as was not
on the stage at the moment. Thus, when the sitting began, the
scales and the sisyphus were on this bench. Two guest sitters
were outside the circle, approximately as indicated. Since But-
ler ·was somewhat behind the Theatre he was not in a very good
position to see all of the operations in detail but, by bending
to his left, he could see the whole front of the stage and its
approaches, if the lamps in the Theatre were lighted. Crandon
and Richardson had a somewhat foreshortened view of the appa-
ratus on the stage, due to their position. The reports follow:
CRANDON's REPORT OF S:EANCE OF J uLY 15TH, 1927
After a few tries, Walter was able to start the pendulum
swinging, with a good red-light background; and he could appar-
ently arrest it anywhere in its excursion/6
shorten the excursion,
and in every way show that he had control of it, though the
manner of the control was not evident to the observers. The
second time this was tried, Bird had control of the Psychic's
right hand, Crandon's two hands, and Crandon's mouth.16
a
The all-glass balance was put on the stage, and Bird was
H See pp. 598-600 for detailed description; see also line cuts in connection
with this chapter on page 652. The theatre hacl just been reconstructed with glass
wiJ1gs and hinged glass front. The wings were parallelograms; hence the hinged front
hung straight down. IVHh the front closed the lower edge of the hinged section was
in appToxiJnate contact with the upper edge of the sub-stage enclosure.
1u See pp. 600-601.
16 The pendulum did not swing past the center. All movements made toward
the west of the centeL
lG• Which, as Bird notes (Par. 5), would be quite as significant as it woulcl have
been if it had occurred in the scales test, following.
636 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
told to put 5 weights in either pan. The first trial at balancing
this uneven load was a failure. The second time, in red light,
the empty pan went down and the full pan went up and they
oscillated evenlyP Bird and Dudley observed a thread, appar-
ently attached to one of the free guys of the empty. pan, extend-
ing out from it about 30° and perhaps 3 inches long.
At the next trial the thread was not seen; two weights were
found on the west pan and one on the east pan, and Walter
made them balance. The thread was found at the end of the
sitting, attached to the hook at the end of the balance arin.18
It was a flimsy dark brown or black thread; not sewing cotton.
At the end of the first successful experiment with the scales,
Walter asked Bird whether he saw the point. Bird reported the
thread, thinking this the point which Walter would make. But
no: Walter told Bird to feel of the scales, and Bird did so, to
his surprise, finding that Walter had lowered the glass partition
over the front of the stage.
A thumb-print experiment came next, after which Walter
made a try at the Sisyphus/9 but apparently his force was not
equal to it.
Bmn's REPORT OF SEANCE OF JULY 15, 1927
(As this report was submitted it contained a· very large
number of explanatory and expository foot notes, which were
not a part of the original record. Such of these as seem neces-
sary to explain the record or the operations are brought into
the text in square brackets, and either in whole, in part (in
quotes) or paraphrased. In the latter case the letters PP are
prefixed. Cross references to my own report may prove of
further assistance in evaluating the phenomena. For conven-
ient reference, paragraph numbers have been added. E. E. D.)
(1) Butler's Little Theater was in use; first with the pen-
17 The oscillation was slight. See Note 30.
18 See Note 36.
19 For description see p. 601.
TELEPLASl\IIIC STRUCTURES AND TEL,EKINESIS 637
dulum, then with the scales; the sisyphus was to have been
used but was not reached.20
The Theatre was set on the table,
which was slightly quartered, at Margery's left and in front
of her; there was ample space for her to enter the cabinet at
the east, and the table was not moved over (into its more usual
position) after she entered.21
(2) Almost immediately on extinction of the room light, the
red light in the Theatre was lighted by ·walter, to its first or
second stage.22
It is believed that once or twice during the
evening he put it out himself; but almost always, he had Butler
put it out for hi~.2 3
Usually he lit it himself, though occasion~
ally he had Butler do this too.24
(3) There was a prolonged dark interval, followed by a
red-light interval, in which the pendulum moved through a
wide amplitude, stood steady for a moment in elevated posi-
tion, etc.25
Dudley reports26
a thread-like connection fastened
to the projecting mass slightly _
above the point of suspension,
and leading off to the (psychic's) right and down, apparently
passing out of the Theater.27
It was taut when the position or
action of the pendulum was such as to suggest that the thread
was under tension.
20 See C.'s report above, and D.'s report, par. 4.
21 Thus placed for convenience in attaching the extension cord supplying current
to the theatre. The table was not moved because to do so would disturb this
connection.
22 Thus giving an excellent illumination of the stage enclosure. See also Miss
Walker's repoTt, May 27, 1927, p. 616.
2s The position of the theatre brought the extinguishing switch close to Butler.
On the hypothesis that Walter used a teleplasmic tel'minal to operate these switches,
the switch for reducing and extinguishing the light would be in a Telatively incon-
venient position.
24 Butler states that Walter turned on the lights on each occasion but that he
(Butler) turned them off at Walter's request, and adds, "but did not release con-
trol of Margery's hand, as the flapper was within easy reach above our hands, and
easy to operate.''
2s See D.'s report, Par. 2. Apparently Bird did not note the first small move-
ment of the pendulum.
26 Reported after the seance, not during the seance action.
B. raises the question, in a footnote, that D. could not lcnow that it was
fastened. Nevertheless, both the pendulum and the thread-like structure acted as
though they were connected.
27 Actually not visible beyond the confines of the glass wing.
638 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
(4) With the scales,28
after one or two displays without
motion in red light, Bird was called upon to put five weights in
the west pan, ·having the option of which pan to use. The
next display showe¢1. this pan inert on the ground.29
The next
showed the pans in substantial static balance.30
The east pan
was strongly tilted, and there was a sharp elbow in one of the
suspender threads. Attached to this elbow and running off
and down apparently to the lower front east corner31
of the
Theatre, Bird saw a thread-like connection.
(5) The scales performance had been started with the glass
front of the Theatre raised, to facilitate placing of the weights
in the pan. With reference to the fact that he had himself
lowered this,32
Walter now spoke up and said that we had all
missed the point of the display. Of course the glass front is
seen with difficulty, if at all, in the red light; and we had been
concentrating on (looking through it) the scales unit. So none
of us observed the condition of the glass front. Bird, however,
misinterpreting Walter's remark, asked: " You mean the thread
connection, Walted" Walter said "No," he dicln 't mean this :
and explained what he did mean,33
giving us a new exposure of
reel light to show it. Th e thread was gone and the pans were
normal, the weighted one grounded. The meaning of Bird's
r emark had to be explained to Crandon, who then set up the
claim that Bird had double control during the levitation of the
scales. Walter had to support Bird's correction that this double
control had been during the pendulum episode before Crandon
28 The pendulum having been removed to the bench and the scales substituted.
The hinged glass cover was thrown back on top of the theatl'e at this time.
29 I.e., the glass stage. ·
so My recollection is of a slight oscillation in a vertical plane. See also report
of seance of June 16, 1927, and reference in Note 22.
3 1 As B. described this situation after the seance and subsequently, the point of
application was ~1ear the pan, as would be indicated in the sketch, Fig. 1, page 652,
and in the s~ance of June 16th. Hac
l the direction of pull been as stated here, the
pan and its suspender cords would have been pulled off at an angle away from the
end of the scale beam. Apparently Dudley's discussion of the apparent offset in the
suspender cord resultecl in several misunderstandings of the actual situation, which
were not cleared up by subsequent experiments with the theatre.
32 B. comments, in a f ootnote, that this was an important point. Walter r aised
this point spontaneously.
33 Compare D. 's report, ·P ar. 9.
'l'ELEPLASMIC STRUCTURES AND TELEKINESIS 641
into the basket from immediately above.43 Following the obser-
vation by Bird and the discussion of the thread by the sitters,
Walter was heard fussing in the dark with the scales. He gave
one or more views of them in red light with the pans in approx-
imate balance, both free in air. At least one weight bad been
dropped to the floor 44 and at least one had been moved to the east
pan; there therefore exists a good degree of probability that the
equilibrium as ::;een was normal. The statement here made cov-
ers the visible results so far as Bird could determine it; audibil-
ity being relied on for the statement that one weight was on the
floor. ["Thus, if from a four-weighted pan a single weight be
dropped to the floor and a second transferred to the one-
weighted pan, both will have two weights, whereupon they will
balance normally, with a fairly good approximation to the
accustomed effect of static psychic equilibrium." (PP. At
the point in the Reanc8 when) "we had a red-light interval to
verify the condition of the front of the Theatre. the scales were
in normal unbalanced rest; evidently they were unevenly
weighted; presumably they retained their original 4 :1 discrep-
ancy.45 Later, when in the absence of any thread seen by any
43 As a result of a somewhat extended experience with these scales phenomena
the writer recognizes thut the number and distribution of the weights are the critical
points, and has always been careful to record those facts as accurately as the cir-
cumstances would perm~t. The write1· 's record shows a 2 :3 loading. Admittedly,
the glass weights are somewhat difficult to see, but the pans were from 7 to 8 inches
below the line of sight; l1ence the weights were visible. These glass weights weighed
approximately 60 grains each.
44 The sequence of erents at this seance was unique in my experience. For this
rea.son I find it possible to reconstmct a part of the seance action which was not
recorded at the time. As has been noted, the pendulum was on the stage with the
cover down when the seance began. The rest of the apparatus was on the bench
in front of the table. This was convenient to Bird and less so to anyone else except
Richardson. The latter 1arely places and removes apparatus. Bird usually handles
the apparatus when he is present. It is my clear recollection that he made all the
changes in the apparatus at this seance, and that when he put the weights in the
west pan one of them fell to the bench in front of the table. Bird felt around for
it in the dusk below the edge of the table, found it, and put it in the west pan with
the others. I am confident that this wa.s the only weight that was dropped at this
seance. Therefore, all five weights were in the west pan, as Bird says in par. 4.-
E. E. D.
45 Aside from this footnote, there is no other indication of a 4:1 loading, either
in Bird 's report or in any other report. The weight of the evidence indicates that
there were two weights in the east pan at this time and the remaining three were
in the west pan; hence the scales were normally unbalanced. The pans were, bow-
ever, in approximate balance under this normal unbalance of approximately 60
grains. See Note 30.
642 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
sitter they gave an approximation to psychical static balance,
they were probably weighted alike; so their behavior can be
regarded as normal." "I saw two weights in the east pan
where only one had been before; hence, at least one had beeD
transferred. . . . I cannot, of course, be sure that there were,
, in the east pan, only the two weights which I saw. If there were
three, there could not have been a normal balance because there
were not six weights available-only :five."]
:)(:
* *
The above report, minus the foot notes, was written (in part)
on July 15, 1927, and finished the next day (according to the evi-
dence presented by its writer), and was then mailed to himself
at Hyslop House by registered mail. It was opened on July 30,
1930, by Mr. Bond and witnessed by him, Mrs. Bigelow and Miss
Wellman. They stated that it was their opinion that the
envelope had not been previously opened.
* *
DunLEY's REPORT oF SEANCE oF JULY 15, 1927
(This report is compiled from my records, written the same
evening. Parenthetical explanations are . inserted wherever
these would make the meaning clearer. The introductory state-
ments, descriptions of apparatus, etc., which have been given at
an earlier point, are omitted herein. A supplementary discus-
sion of the phenomena is added and the paragraph numbering
is made continuous although the report proper ends with para-
graph 10. This seance was scheduled for :finger prints, but since
Butler had returned the reconstructed Theatre and brought the
new pendulum these were used.46
At various points in the
record and discussion I shall introduce statements by Butler,
wherever they are pertinent to the question of control.)
(1) Butler had placed the Little Theatre on the table, with
the pendulum on the stage, and had closed the glass f.ront. This
was its condition when Margery and the balance of the sitters
<
Ja vValtei' 's insistance was on the finger-print experiment; hence he turned to
that at the earliest possible moment.
TELEPLAS UC STRUCTURES AND TEL·EKINESIS 643
entered the room. Butler states that the apparatus was never
out of his sight from the time he brought it to the house. The
0irclo was formed and the mantle light extinguished after con-
trol had been established. There was, therefore, no opportunity
to make any attachments to the pendulum without Butler's
knowledge.
(2) The light (in the Theatre light box) viras turned on,
and, after a time, turned off. The stage was completely en-
closed. There was considerable activity within the Theatre;
sounds as though the pendulum stand were being moved about
and hitting the glass. The light (behind tlie stage) was turned
on. The pendulum bob moved slowly toward the west about one
inch to one and one-quarter inches, and then as slowly returned
to its central position. The pendulum then moved farther to
the west, to an angle of about 45° or a little less. The move-
ment was slow and very steady. It remained stationary for a
few moments and then as slowly returned to center. As it
approached the limit of its (outward) travel the counterweight
(the upper part having been partly in the shadow of the back-
drop frame) came fully into view against the illuminated back-
ground. At this time I saw a fine cord of some sort which was
(apparently) attached just above the pivoting point of the pen-
dulum (assembly). (A subsequent study showed that this point
would be approximately one-quarter inch above the pivot.) The
cord extended to the east wing of the Theatre and slanted
downward slightly (about 10°). When the cord was slack
(after the pendulum returned to its central position of rest)
this latter point of (apparent) contact with the east wing did
not change its position. (The slack was between this point and
the aforementioned point on the pendulum structure. See
Fig. 1, page 652.)
(3) The experiment was repeated. (That is, the pendulum
again moved to the west in the same manner as before and again
returned slowly to its central position, the cord becoming taut
and slack in the same way as before and the apparent points of
contact remaining as before.) The cord hung in a uniformly
644 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
smooth curve when slack.47
I studied it with great interest.
No knots, loops or loose ends were seen at either end. (It is my
recollection that it was smooth, of uniform size and density, and
formed a dark line against the luminous background.) As it
developed after the seance, I alone saw this cord. I thought
that Bird had seen it also. The cord seemed to lengthen and
shorten in its own length (i.e., between the apparent points of
support) .
. (4) During the pendulum movement Bird said that he had
double control of Crandon's hands and Margery's right hand.
(5) The light was extinguished. Crandon suggested putting
in the glass scales (on the stage). Walter : ''Is there any
hurry~'' He took his time, and again the light went on. The
cord was no longer visible. The pendulum was removed (to
the bench in front of the table) and the scales were put on the
stage (being taken from the same bench).48
(6) Bird (at his choice) put :five glass weights in the west
pan (of the scales) at Walter's request. The light was extin-
guished. There was considerable activity for about one minute;
then the light went on. The scales were seen in balance kineti-
cally. The left or east pan was tipped up at an angle of about
thirty degrees. The cord suspender leading to the front of this
east or unloaded pan was offset below the wire spreader for a
certain distance (as it appeared to me) and then proceeded
straight to the edge of the pan. The scales moved as though
(actuated) by a physical connection of some sort. I saw no
such connection.49
(7) Walter said : "You all missed the point." Bird: "Do
you mean the thread~" Walter: "You all missed the point."
The light was out at this point and Walter (presumably) put it
on and continued, ''Feel of the stage.'' (My record says
"stage" but he may have said "scales.") Bird tried to do so
and found that the glass cover was down although it had been up
(folded back on top of the Theatre) at the beginning of the
H See description of pendulum, p. 633.
48 See Note 44.
40 See report of June 16th seance, pp. 603- 604, anc1 May 27th seance, pp.
612- 616.
TELEPLASlVIIC S'rHUC'rURES AND TEL,EKINESIS 645
scales test. Walter said nothing further about the thread at
this point.50
The light was put out.
(8) A little later, with the light on, the scales were in
approximate balance with two weights in the east pan and three
in the west pan. Apparently these had been changed by
Walter. The light was turned out. There was considerable
talk about the thread (referred to by Bird). (It is not in my
report, but is quite clear in my memory that Walter said some-
thing about "a thread for Birdie.") The light went on again
and a piece of thread or yarn was seen hanging at the east end
of the scale beam. It hung loosely, and was readily seen against
the lighted background. Bird removed the thread.
(9) The scales were removed from the stage (to the bench)
and the Theatre was removed from the table to give room for
the :finger-print experiment. As a result of the :first attempt,
Walter dropped the wax on the floor. The second and third
pieces carried prints (of the Walter right thumb) which were
interesting but not very good. Walter said that it was too hot
for good work and ordered the Theatre returned to the table.
(This was done.) The Sisyphus was (removed from the bench
and) put on the stage but Walter found himself unable to work
it, and ordered the sitting closed at about 10 :50 P .M.
(10) After the seance, in the book room, Bird showed me the
piece of "thread" he had taken from the scales. He held it in
his hand under the bright reading lamp and we ·examined it.51
He said that it was different from the one he had seen attached
to the scales. I suggested that it looked like yarn; like a ravel-
ing from the curtains of the cabinet. He agreed that it did look
like yarn. (I did not handle this thread. So far as I know, it
remained in his possession. He spoke of it as though it was of
no particular importance.) At this time he told me that he
saw his thread attached to the scale unit close to the pan. I
noted that this would not account for the cuTious offset in the
50 See Note 34.
51 This was about five to six inches long and has been correctly described as dark
and fuzzy, lookirig in every way like yam. Its characteristics were readily deter-
mined under this strong light.
646 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
suspender cord, as I saw it. (It was at this time that I discov-
ered that Bird and I had not been talking about the same thread,
and that he did not see the one operating the pendulum.) There
followed a somewhat general discussion of the phenomena of
the evening.
* * * *
(11) In writing up this seance I sketched the east scale pan
and its suspension, as it appeared to me. Some time later, after
talking this over with Bird, I went into the matter more thor-
oughly in an effort to solve the anomalous beha~or of this
suspender with its curious offset. The pull on the scale pan
had been downward, in a straight line, just as was the case
during the J nne 16th seance. In fact, it acted in exactly the
same way as when Richardson put his knife in the weighted pan
and the empty pan went down. A single experiment was enough
to show that if the elbow had actually been present in the sus-
pender cord (the one nearest the point where the downward pull
was exerted) the pan would have remained level instead of
being tipped. A study of the scales showed that from a cer-
tain position, the tripart spreader or tripod attached to the
scale beam and carrying the three threads supporting the pan
would be deflected by the eccentric pull in such manner that
one of the legs would be obscured by the scale beam, and the
angle of the front leg (the one above the apparent point of
attachment of.the teleplasmic thread) would present the illusion
of an elbow in the suspender thread. This illusion would exist
for no other sitter near ine. I therefore agreed with Bird, that
the pull on the east pan of the scales was, as he said at the
time, close to the pan. The above situation is shown in the
sketch of the scales on the stage, as is the approximate position
of the residual thread. (See Fig. 1, 652.)
THE PHENOMENA VIEWED FROM VARIOUS ANGLES
(12) The Pendulum Experiment : This has several inter-
esti11g angles. The slow and steady movement of the pendulum
b bw
a. noticeab ~. If it bad been produced by a normal thread
tb -- r WQ"lil 1l{tVe to b actuated from outside the Theatre.
TELEPLASlVIIC STRUCTURES AND TEL·EKI ESIS 647
Such a thread, if attached at the point observed by me, would
contact the pendulum assembly at a point one-quarter inch
above the pivot. This point of attachment would move less
than 5/ 32 inch in moving the pendulum bob 4 inches (somewhat
less than the observed seance movement). Any slight irregu-
larity in the pull on such an alleged thread would be multiplied
more than twenty-{i\re times in the movement of the pendulum.
But, the pendulum moved slowly and steadily. In order to pro-
duce the observed effect by normal means the following condi-
tions appear to be essential: Considerable practice; a complete
freedom from interference ; a clear view of the apparatus and
an unusually steady hand. The forces involved are so slight
(see description of pendulum, heading these reports) that the
tactile sense is an insufficient guide. The pull for maximum
displacement is but little more than an ounce and one-quarter,
while that for one-half inch displacement is very small indeed
(a matter of a few grains). Thus, if sucli an assumed thread
were pulled through a distance of 1/ 64 inch a little more rapidly
or slowly than during the preceding or succeeding l / 64 inch
movement, the pendulum bob would move in a decidedly jerky
manner; since these irregl1larities would be multiplied 25 times.
(13) Such an assumed normal operation by means of a
thread passing out of the Theater involves its.passage by the
front edge of the wing (see Butler's description of the device ).52
This edge is smooth; there is nothing to prevent such a thread
from slipping downward when slack. It did not do so. There-
fore, if unsupported, it must be actuated from some point higher
than the point of attachment to the pendulum; that is, from a
point more than forty-five inches above the floor, a height at
least as great as that of the mouth of the tallest person seated
·in the circle. But, let us assume, for the sake of the argument,
that it could have been supported against this smooth glass wing
in some manner not yet discovered. There would then be an
unsupported length of thread outside the Theater, extending to
this hypothetical operator who, presumably, can see the pendu-
52 Remembering that, at this seance the edge of the wing was in a vertical plane.
648 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
lum. Unless one assumes that the tension due to this unsup-
ported length of thread is very much less than eight grains, the
twelve- to thirteen-inch length within the Theater will remain
approximately straight even when the pendulum is in its central
position (assuming that it could return to center while subjected
to such a load). In practice, however, it hung in a smooth
catenary curve when slack.
(14) If we are to assume a normal thread we must devise a
method of attaching and detaching it, and we must :find someone
who could do so without detection. The top of the pendulum
counterweight comes within three-quarters inch of the under side
of the glass top of the stage. The glass cover was closed before
the seance began; it remained closed while Margery entered the
cabinet, and Butler supervised the apparatus. He states that
no one had an opportunity to make such a normal attachment.
Everyone was seated and the circle was formed before the
mantel light was turned out. Butler, as designer of the ap-
paratus, had a very definite interest in maintaining control
of Margery and Richardson. He states that he had continuous
control of Margery's left hand throughout these experiments,
and that she did not leave her chair, nor make any noticeable
forward movement. The top of the Theatre is four feet from
the floor, the front of the stage (the sole opening) is more than
:fifteen inches from the back edges of the paddles and it sits
on a table twenty inches wide. Margery is slightly less than
:five feet six inches tall. Evidently she is eliminated from any
oblique considerations in connection with these Theatre experi-
ments. Richardson and Litzelmann state that they maintained
continuous control and Fife says that he did not release my
hand, nor Litzelmann's. My left hand was in continuous con-
tact with Bird's right except for those red-light periods when
Bird was making the changes in the apparatus, as noted else-
where. He was in control of Crandon and, during a part of the
pendulum test, had double control. He was in the strategic
position to exercise proper control of the experiment, and this
:was the reason why he was given that seat. The guest sitters
are automatically eliminated from the problem by reason of
their position outside the circle.
TELEPLASMIC STRUCTURES AND TEL·EKINESIS 649
(15) The construction and arrangement of the apparatus,
the location of the sitters in relation thereto, the control and the
nature of the phenomena, all combine to indicate that we were
not dealing with a normal structure; but there are certain other
·considerations which enter into the problem. This actuating
structure was not visible beyond (to the west of) the pendulum.
No knot, loose end or loop was visible where it contacted the
pendulum assembly. It seemed to shorten and lengthen in its.
own length, i.e., between the pendulum and its apparent point of
attachment at the east wing of the Theatre, in a manner quite
consistent with the slow and steady movement of the pendu-
lum.53 When this filament was slack it hung in a smooth curve,
showing .not the slightest trace of kinks or irregularities such
as are commonly seen in threads or strings.
(16) Turning, now, to a consideration of the scales test; we
find that there was ample opportunity to determine whether
there was any normal attachment to the pans when the scales
were put on the stage, when they were seen in normal static
balance against the lighted back-drop, when the load was placed
in the west pan with consequent elevation of the east pan, and
again when the scales were unbalanced with the heavy pan
grounded. I saw no attachment at these times. Bird does not
indicate that he saw anything of the sort at this time, nor did
he do so in his subsequent conversations with me, while, because
of his operations on the scale unit, his opportunity for exact
observation and testing was even better than mine. Evidently
the opportunity for making an assumed application of a normal
thread was limited to the period between the point to which
Note 29 applies .and that, a few moments later, when Bird felt
for the scales and found the glass front instead. If a normal
thread were used it must be removed, and this must also be done
in the above period; unless one wishes to assume that Bird
could feel for the scales with the light on and the empty pari.
nearer him elevated at least two inches above the stage, and
yet a thread could be attached to this pan and be invisible to
58 Admission of the existence of teleplasm in this mediumship and of ideoplas-
ticity in connection with its form variables provides a logical basis for the assump-
tion that this filament could be lengthened or shortened at the will of the psychic
operator.
650 MARGERY MEDIU:J\IISHIP
him! The residual thread was clearly seen under no more
favorable conditions (except, perhaps, its size and fuzziness).
The above would seem to constitute a distinct limitation of
opportunity, but there are other limitations imposed by the
nature of the apparatus, its location and relative inaccessibility.
From my experiments with the freely suspended scale pans I
can state, with some positiveness, that one would need the free
use of both hands to attach or detach a normal thread to or from
the pan suspender at the point described by Bird, and without
leaving any indications of knots, loops, hooks or the like. This
means that the assumed normal operator would have to operate
from tlle front of the Theatre, and do this without the knowledge
of anyone in the circle. The time element, as noted above, is
an important factor.54
(17) In view of the fact that Bird and I agreed that the
residual thread was unlike anything we had seen in connection
with the Theatre experiments, it is clear that it has no part in
the action in front of the stage. It is, furthermore, just the sort
of mystification that one expects from vValter, and is not so very
different in principle from his spontaneous contribution to the
Sistrum experiments, as described in Chapter LIII.
(18) Walter's attempt to work tpe Sisyphus was a failure,
for which he did not apologize, merely remarking that he hadn't
enough energy. Whatever we may think of this reason we
must at least admit that we do not know enough about the laws
governing these phenomena to dispute with him on this point.55
(19) Immediately following these Theatre experiments
three thumb prints were made on two pieces of wax; hence, if
54 Another interesting point whicll seems worth some consideration is: The
empty pan was pulled down so that the front edge was almost or actually in contact
with the front edge of the glass stage. When this point of contact is viewed from
a certain angle the edge of the glass presents the illusion of a dark line extending
toward the lower east corner of the theatre. All of which supply a further argument
for photographic recording of such phenomena.
55 In diseussing the effect of heat on teleplasmic structures Walter said, during
the sitting of July 21, 1927 : "When it is hot and the pressure is low the teleplasm
runs down; it drops like treacle. It is apt to come clown ·as threads. I can't
always tell when this happens. If I am working these big things with lots of room
I can do it in hot weather, but these small scales and things on the stage don't give
me room enough; the energy melts and strings out and may be visible. '' Compare
temperature and pressure for the seances of June 16th and for this seance.
TELEPL.ASMIO STRUCTURES .AND TEL,EKINESIS 651
we accept them as of supernormal origin, there were teleplastic
structures in use which were, presumably, much larger than
would be needed for the relatively light work in the Theatre.
(20) It is a matter of common oqservation that Walter
adapts his teleplasmic tools to the work in hand. The visibility
or invisibility of such mechanisms of telekinesis may well depend
on both the physical and psychical factors of the seance which
are pictured 56
as conditioning the presentation of teleplasmic
phenomena. Thus, after collating all the facts bearing on the
telekinetic phenomena of this seance, and studying them in rela-
tion to similar happenings in this and other mediumships, it
seems apparent that another and very interesting ;record has
been added to data on the subject of thread-like teleplasmic
structures.57
sr. See Geley, Zoe. cit., also Crawford, The Reality of Psychic Phenomena.
57 'l'hree years after the elat e of this seance and on the eve of the severance
of his connection with the Society as Rese·arch Officer, Bird, f or the first time, ex-
pressed to the Research Committee of the Boarc
l of 'rrustees an opinion that the
"threads " observed by him ancl Dudley were of normal production and indicated
fraud in.the production of the seance action. At t.he direction of the Committee he
prepared an account of the seance in which he elaborated that theory. This article
was given the most careful consideration by the Committee, but, after a lengthy
investigation of all the circumstances ancl after mature consideration, Bird 's
opinion ancl conclusions were rejected as unsouncl and impossible and the m·ticle as
biased and unworthy of publication.- W. H. B.; D. D. W.
652 M.ARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
c
II
______9-----~ t'.
\> ·'·., .
\~..\
(I\ .__y
)F1xed r../ass /ron/
A
G/ r h d h
a.ss ron mge ere
d?.f
i!
If~ Stage/
8
II
Seance 7-15 -'27.,
FIG. 2.
Arrangement of apparatus and
sitters at seance, July 15, 1927.
1ft
FIG. L
Drawing A shows the pendulum.
''a'' is t he position of the th1·ead-like
structure when the pendulum was de-
flected; "b," its position with the
pendulum at rest; '' c,'' the apparent
point of contact with t he east wing.
Drawing B shows the scales with the
loaded west pan in air and the empty
east pan tipped up. The residual thread
is indicated by the clotted line "d."
The suspender cords are fine threads,
much finer than the relative widths of
the lines of the drawings indicate. The
east pan suspender threads and tl·i-part
spreader have been rotated slightly in
the drawing, in order to show them as
they would be if seen from a point some-
what to the left of the center line.
The four + marks on the ''back
drop'' of dra1ving A indicate the ap-
proximate positions of the 4 lamps in
the lamp box.
Cabin et
8
8
8
8
8
Seance ·7-15-27
8 e'=
C.=ve,;srd,.--!:1:
"'· 81
CHAPTER LIII
Telekinesis of Later 1927
The summer of 1927 was uncomfortably warm, and the
humidity was high during most of July and August. Walter
had said, on June 26th, that he would do little work in August,
and intimated that he found it difficult to control teleplasmic
structures in hot weather. Nevertheless, he did carry through
a number of finger-print seances in July, but there were few
sittings during the next month.
Follo>ving the telekinetic phenomena of July 1'5th, there was
a seance on the 26th, in preparation for the photographic experi-
ments of the 28th, at which there was considerable telekinetic
action. The next instance which seems to belong in this chapter
comprises a considerable part of the seance action of August
23rd. The reports given below are by Bird and Crandon,
respectively:
Throughout the seance, save at moments when he was obliged
to manipulate the water vessels, Fife had th~ Psychic's right hand
without interruption. Bird had her left throughout the seance
without interruption except once when he gave it to Pierce while
manipulating the scales and once when he left the room in search
of apparatus. Fife throughout and Bird except during one short
interval, had their grips on the Psychic's hands upon her corre-
sponding knee/ thereby affording a large measure of foot control.
The first act was given with the luminous basket with all con-
trol of the Psychic as described. This was freely levitated and
rocked on the table. Amongst other gyrations it was hung around
Bird's neck and removed. After quite a lot of this, at Walter's
suggestion Pierce got on the floor under the table and controlled
the Psychic's two feet directly. Bird transferred her hand to his
left and with his right reached into the cabinet to control her
head. Under this absolute control of her five extremities the action
of the basket ·Continued. Bird 's hand, however, having found the
top of the Psychic's head rather than her mouth, Walter insisted
1 Compare seance of July 15th, Chapter LVII.
653
654 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
upon a repetition with Bird 's hand directly over the Psychic',':!-
mouth.2
In both these episodes levitation was excellent.
During the basket ·levitation the doughnut was on the table
right side down. On two or three occasions it was held in a vertical
position and moved freely about over a considerable area.
Articles were called for for identification. Bird supplied two of
the wooden block letters, which were successfully named. · Pierce
supplied a handkerchief o£ such size as to constitute a family joke;
Walter with unusual promptness said, ." some folks might call this
a handkerchief, but I would call it a table-cloth.'' One or two
other featureless identifications were effected and finally Hutchison
contributed an object, making a remark or two which made it
plain that it was a very tough proposition. It made a metallic
sound as it was dropped into the basket. Walter handled it for
a while and agreed that it was a tough one; presently he said
that it was not one object, but two objects together, and Hutchi-
son agreed; and then he said after another interval that one of
the objects was a match-box. He fussed for quite a while but
could only say that the other was like a coin but was not a coin.
The object was then passed first to Bird and later to Pierce to
see what they could do with it with one hand in the dark. Bird
was very confident that he would not have been able to decide that
the one-hal£ of the assembly was a match-box; but this was in fact
correct according to Hutchison. Pierce agreed with Bird here
and neither of them had the remotest idea what the rest of the
assembly was. In point of fact it was a safe deposit key, so
assembL
ed into the match-box that only the circular handle of the
key could be found unless a very difficult task of disengagement
were performed.
The voice machine was used successfully under the usual con-
ditions, plus the fact that Pierce stood up and held his hand imme-
diately above the open top of the U. Walter followed this by a
series of rapid eclipses to the various sitters of the two luminous
floats. Somebody rather defied him to eclipse the luminous top
of the tube and he did this although no sitter could reach it without
standing up.
The last act consisted of the scales. Pierce was instructed to
put four weights on one pan and one on the other, at his own
pleasure. He put the four on the west pan. Ther·e was excellent
dynamic levitation in several periods of red light and finally while
Bird lifted the scales unit off the table to a height of about two
feet. The white flash was used freely together with exploration
by the hands of the sitters.
Bird and Fife reported cold breezes to an unusual degree.
The Psychic was in trance during the levitation, identification, and
2 It would seem as though Walter were trying to close every avenue to a ·normal
explanation. This is quite characteristic .of him.
',I'ELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 655
thumb-print episodes. She came out for the VCO and remained
out for the scales. The trance was unusually quiet as regards
both voice and movement.
Crandon made an independent record, which chronicles the
placing by Pierce and Hutchison of their noses in the doughnut
on, the table for \¥alter to pull their hair. There is also a bit
more detail about the scales, in the following terms:
The balances were now brought out and inspected in white
light. Pierce was given ·weights and was told by Walter to put
four in either pan and one in the other. This he did, and after
a minute in darkness the light was turned on and the balances were
seen oscillating as though equally loaded. While this was going on
Pierce passed his left hand under and over each pan, and white
light was played upon the whole outfit, showing no physical con-
nection between the Psychic or any other person and the scales.
'rhis experimm1t was then repeated, and while the scale wa::;
balancing in oscillation, Bird, facing the Psychic from across the
table, picked up the whole scales unit and white light was played
on the whole of it above and below, showing complete dissociatiQn,
as far as visible contacts went, between the scales unit and all
persons in the room.
On August 30th, after the completion of the thumb print,
Crandon's record tells us that:
The bell-box was put on the table and Walter rang it in the
hands of Mrs. Whittemore, who then handed it to Whittemore.
E ach turned a complete circle with the bell ringing intermittently
in the hands. Walter then did considerable beautiful levitation
with the small luminou.o;; basket, throwing it on the floor beyond the
table, raising it to the far edge of the table, and then putting it into
Mrs. Whittemore's lap.
The seance of September 1st, at the Chamberlain residence,
was marked by numerous telekinetic phenomena. It is given in
full on pp. 622-625.
Following the presentation of the large number of thumb
prints during the summer, with seances held on several consecu-
tive evenings, and the hiatus in August, there was a period of
comparative relaxation. The telekinetic phenomena at several
seances fell into the standard form and may be summarized;
on other occasions they developed in such an unusual way as to
demand considerable elaboration.
656 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
September 4th and 5th: Two seances, " largely for family
reunion purposes,'' in the presence of the Hubbs, Grays, etc.;
covered by a single very brief record, which chronicles, for both
evenings, basket and doughnut levitation, touches, hair-pulling
over the luminous plaque, VCO and scales, "under strict condi-
tions of control.''
September 12th: At a seance held without previous arrange-
ment with Walter, to accommodate a sitter who had to leave the
city, Walter failed to appear, but John was on hand and ran
through a typical telekinetic show, using basket and doughnut
and touching sitters. When the hand was seen in silhouette,
over the doughnut, it was designated as "thin and spidery."
Such hands have been seen from time to time during the medium-
ship. Whether their lack of rotundity is wholly a function of
the operator's lack of technique or is due to a temporary reduc-
tion in the energy supply has not been determined. Walter
indicates that the latter may be the case.
September 15th: Butler had brought several pieces of new
apparatus. Two of these may best be described at this point,
before proceeding to a description of the seance:
Mechanical Bell: A wooden base on which is mounted a
bicycle bell actuated by a spring-controlled wooden flapper.
See page 600.
Sistrum: Made primarily for hand use, this apparatus com-
prises a small wooden frame, about five inches square, the lower
end formed into an elongated handle for convenience in holding;
an incidental effect of this construction being also that when
the device is carried about in accordance with the routine ex-
isting for bell-boxes, the hand of the carrier is visibly remote
from any of the operating parts of the box and is prevented
from contacting the flapper by a broad wooden shelf which
projects from the back of the frame.
Around the sides and the top is a thin wooden housing, form-
ing a shallow open space·in which are mounted a small electric
bell and two dry cells. Above the bell is a vertical disk of metal,
some two in"
ches in diameter, over which is pivoted a broad
arrow. The disk and the arrow are painted in contrasting
TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 657
colors. Above the disk is a small reel lamp, hooded, and so
placed as to throw its light on the disk and the arrow.
Covering practically the entire back of the device is a light
paddle, or flapper, hinged at its upper edge and held at an angle
to the body of the. device by a spring of light tension. Any
movement of the flapper is communicated to the arrow by a train
of gears; so that, as the paddle is moved, simultaneously the
arrow revolves, the lamp is illuminated and the bell rings. A
shield prevents access to the flapper by the hand that carries
the Sistrum.
The principal elements in this gear train are the segmental
gear fastened to the flapper and projecting through the back-
board to engage with a larger and complete gear carrying a
contact pin. The two are at right angles. A short, stiff spring
prevents the large gear from disengaging, although not nor-
mally in contact with the latter. The contact pin rubs against
an insulated spring, thus closing the circuit when the flapper is
sufficiently depressed. Within the limit of travel of the flapper
the segmental gear is normally engaged with the large gear,
while the contact pin is so located as to close the circuit some-
what before the fla.pper reaches the lower limit of its movement.
The gears are entirely beneath the disk in front of which the
arrow rotates.
At this sea:~lCe the Little Theatre was on the table, and both
the pendulum and the mechanical bell were on the stage. The
Sistrum was also on the table. The Psychic was controlled on
her left by Butler and on the right by Crandon, as was the case
on the following evening.
Walter was absent and John and Mark ran the seance. Both
talked in independent voice.3
John found it difficult to operate
the flappers on the Theatre and had Butler do it for him. The
mechanical bell rang gently several times while the light was
out (in Theatre). \iVith light on, the pendulum swung through
a wide amplitude. vVith light out the bell again rang weakly,
(the loudness depending on the amount of pressure on the
s Ordinarily John and Mark do not use the independent voice but communicate
by wps. In this and the sitting following John talked clearly.
658 MARGERY l\IIEDIUMSHIP
flapper) . It then rang loudly. Pendulum was swinging vigor-
ously4 as the light was put on. John asked Butler to turn on
the light and then put it out. At the first attempt John said
that Butler did it too quickly. On a second attempt the flapper
of the bell was seen to move up and down slowly. (The extreme
end of the flapper was off-stage.) The Sistrum bell rang and
the light went on but a moment later it rang again without light-
ing. This was followed by conversation with the use of the
lifted megaphone. This was taken from the hands of several
sitters, and used to push them playfully, so there could be no
question of its actual movement, which attained a range several
feet beyond the medium's reach. Very strong cold air was felt
toward the end of the s·eance, and after the megaphone work
Mark asked the sitters to break the circle, stating that he and
John, through their inexperience, had to some degree lost con-
trol of the force and were trying to regain it. This happened
twice; the second time faint light was requested; the medium
awoke, and spoke simultaneously with Mark.
September 16th: John came in first; made his finger prints,
and then gave way to ·walter. The Sistrum rang with the red
light on while it was on the table and while it moved about in
front of the Psychic, apparently carried by Walter. It dropped
to the floor, was picked up by Crandon and handed to Mrs.
Richardson. It rang while she held it (and pressed the flapper),
and again while it was operated in turn by Caldercott; Mrs.
Cooper and Dudley. In the first three instances the red light
'of the Theatre was on. It was returned to its stand on the table,
where the bell rang as though it had been muffled (the Sistrum
light not on); the bell then sounded like an imperfect buzzer.
The new scales5
(pans supported from below) were put on the
stage of the Theatre and were loaded 0 :4, then 0:7, with glass
weights. With the Theatre light on, the scales balanced and the
Sistrum bell rang with muffled gong. Walter said that Butler
had made these scales so that he (Walter) had both to push and
1 As compared to the slow movement of .July 15th, when it did not swing by
the center.
5 Butler's scales, see pp. 600-601.
TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 659
pull to make them work. He returned to the Sistrum and it
rang several times with the light out, while it was face down on
the glass bell-box. Butler put it on the stand and screwed in
the lamp bulb. It ning while he was doing this and then the
lamp lighted, showing the arrow deflected.
September 23rd: The Psychic was controlled by Dudley on
the left and Crandon on the right. John manifested :first but
Walter came in a little later. The Sistrum was in use but the
batteries seemed very weak and would neither ring the bell nor
light the lamp. \iValter said, "I can recharge the batteries."
The Sistrum was then moved about above the table, placed face
down on the glass bell-box, and, after a short time, the light in
the Sistrum grew brighter and the bell rang somewhat feebly.
At Walter's command, John gave the Richardson code twice via
the Sistrum, the light growing brighter each time. Dudley
unscrewed the lamp at Walter's request. The bell rang louder
(as it should). Walter said there was a poor connection on the
under side of the bell where he could not get at it, and that the
batteries were not run down. He said that he had caused the
batteries of the old Scientific American bell-box to retain their
vigor all these years. (It is a fact that they have continued to
function much longer than most batteries do.)
September 27th: Here, again, the Sistrum's curious action
furnished the major item of interest. The follov;ring abstract is
taken in part from Crandon's record, supplemented with notes
by Dudley:
This apparatus had been in the hands of Mr. Summer, a pro-
fessional electrician, who could not make the bell ring or the light
go on. Walter said never mind, he would attend to it. Crandon
bet Walter $10.00 that he could not make it ring. After working
on it for about five minutes, Walter said that all one needed to do
to make it ring· was to say ''Bing ! Bing !'' He pronounced these
syllables and the bell rang.
It rang strongly, as though the batteries were new; it rang while
Dudley held it about four feet from the Psychic without depressing
the flapper, but not when in a vertical position. Held horizontally
it rang but as it was brought to within 20° of the vertical it stopped
ringing· only to start again when tipped forward. It acted a~
though there was a load on the flapper which was great enough
660 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
to d€press it only when the flnpp M· was about 40° from the vertical.
(Normally the flapper stands about 20° from the body of the
Sistrum.) The red light was turned on in the Sistrum during
this latter test although off when first tried. It rang while in
the hands of lVIrs. Litzelmann and Hicharclson. The latter report€d
touches on his hand and on the Sistrum. It rang when lVIrs. Rich-
ardson held it face down and when Walter held it; but not when
Dudley held it and pressed th€ flapper. He tried this three times;
then, at Walter's request, he held it with the flapper toward himself
but with the Sistrum between the scal€s (on the table) and the
Psychic. He then felt something fumbling· with the upper part
of the front of the Sistrum, then Walter asked that the flapper b€
depressed. When this was clone the bell rang, but when this
external pressur€ decreased the bell would not ring. This was
tried three times, and on one test the bell failed to ring. Walter
then said that he would bet Dudley that the latt€r could not make
it ring. When Dudley asked permission to take the Sistrum home
Walter at first refused, and then consented. At th€ close of the
sitting the bell would not ring nor the lamp light.
The following is the report of Dudley's examination:
I found that both sets of battery cells had been moved down-
ward from their top contacts: one about 1/ 16 inch; the other
less than 1/ 32 inch; thus causing an open circuit. They :fitted
so tightly in their tubes that considerable force had to be applied
to replace them. One end of the bell wiring had a loose connec-
tion (see Sept. 23rd seance) but above the base of the bell.
With the batteries in place and this connection soldered the bell
worked better but not every time. The bell contacts were oxi-
dized; the hammer spring was too weak to return the hammer
properly when the Sistrum was tilted sideways, and there were
nne iron :filings on the magnets. All these difficulties were cor-
rected and the bell worked perfectly. However, when the right-
hand battery was out of contact the bell could be made to ring
by pressing :firmly on the gong so that it contacted a cross-con-
nection from the other battery; thus closing the circuit with
less than the·full battery voltage. When the right-hand battery
was only slightly out of contact with the brass angle forming the
upper contact point, a slight pressure on this angle would close
the circuit. I returned the Sistrum to Lime Street, leaving it
in the book room September 28th.
TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 661
During the late afternoon of September 29th, Kunz and I
were testing the effect of flash powder in the seance room, using
an electric igniter that I had made. On our way out we stopped
to speak to Margery, who was sewing in the back room on the
same floor as the book room. To prove that the Sistrum had
been restored to its original condition I took it from the book
room to the brightly lighted back room where Margery was
seated, and depressed the flapper several times. The bell rang
loudly and the lamp lighted. I tried it again in the same way
but neither the bell nor the lamp responded. I then pressed the
flapper to the extreme limit of its travel time after time, but
without the slightest effect. At no time was the device out of
my control, and neither Margery nor Kunz touched it. I took
it to the book room, held it under the reading lamp and, with
the aid of a small piece of mirror, examined the contact mecha~
nism while depressing the flapper. I found that the large gear
had been forced out of mesh with the segmental gear, moved
back about three teeth and re-engaged. Consequently, complete
depression of the flapper would not rotate the contact pin on
the large gear to the position of contact with the insulated spring
and close the circuit. With the aiel of a paper knife, I succe~clecl,
after several trials, in replacing the gear in proper mesh. The
device now worked perfectly and was in the same condition as
when it left my hands the clay before. I demonstrated it to
Margery and Kunz without further misadventure.
The Sistrum had worked normally just before it went out of
commission. As I had recently completed a thorough check-up
of every part I was entirely familiar with the mechanism, and
I am quite sure that I did nothing which would account for its
erratic behavior. Its failure to work after several successful
tests was clearly the result of a maladjustment of the gears,
which could be readjusted only by the application of consider-
able force in a very restricted space. As the device was then
made, no sudden ap1jlication of any reasonable pressure to the
flapper, no shaking or jarring, would throw these gears out of
mesh. At the time it failed to work I felt no exter11al pressure
on the apparatus, but since the assumed locus of the operation
662 MARGERY lVIEDIUMSHIP
was wholly within the device (on the assumption that the opera-
tion was supernormal), there need not have been any component
of force external to it. A normal operation of the sort described
would, of necessity, have had an external component sufficiently
large to be readily felt.
. The disc covering the mechanism is 9/ 16 inch from the back-
board, while the large gear is about % inch from the same sur-
face. Apparently the lifting and turning force must be applied
in this 1
,4 inch space.
It now seems probable that, during the seance of the 23rd,
Walter changed the gear, as above described, and this was the
reason why the electrician could not make the bell ring. And
that, duri~g the latter part of the seance of the 27th, Walter had
again put the gears out of proper mesh, but before letting me
take it away, he returned the contact mechanism to its normal
relationship and ''drew a red herring across the trail'' by dis-
connecting the batteries. ]-,or, with the gear out of its proper
position, the bell could be rung by pressing inward on the con-
tact spring.n Such a pressure ·would produce some of the effects
described in the above seance record.
October 8th: This seance, held in the old cabinet, was inter-
esting in many ways. The old (S.A.) and the glass bell-boxes
were used as well as the scales.7
Dr. Martin controlled at the
Psychic's left; Crandon at the right, with Fife next to him.
Walter spoke of the flash-powder tests of the 29th (spontane-
ously) and said that he was present. Dudley remarked that he
seemed to have been downstairs afterward, to which Walter
replied, "Ha, Ha ! ·well, you were so sure that you could ring
that bell that I thought I would show you that you didn't know
all about it." 8
He rang the old bell-box, then the glass one
but without the glass partitions and with the lamp unscrewed;
rang it while Miss Johnson held it high in the air; again it rang
on the table, and then he told Crandon to turn the 'White flash
o This contact spring is well under the disc over which the arrow rotates. It
is by no means readily accessible.
7 The Comstock balances.
s Walter's propensity for ''doing things'' to electrical equipment has been
referred to many times, both in M . M. and in these Proceedings.
, ·
TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 663
Qn it. As Crandon did so, and while the bell was ringing, there
was a brief flash of something white withdrawing from the box.
The bell continued to ring, and no normal structure '\.vas visible
to account for the ringing, although Dudley scrutinized the
apparatus very carefully. Walter said that Crandon was too
sudden and that he (Walter) had to duck. He asked for the red
flash-lamp, and in this illumination the bell rang while the flap-
pers were seen in their central position of contact. Again it
rang while Dudley continued to examine the mechanism. The
impression which the latter got from the earlier phenomenon
was not that of some object disappearing out of the area of
illumination, which was large, but rather of a structure that
evaporated while in motion. Clouds often disappear in much
the same way but at a much slower rate.
The sitting was continuecl with the scales which balanced
kinetically in red light with a 1 :4 load. vValter asked Dudley,
who was sitting next to Martin, if he wanted to see the cylinder.
Dudley assenting, vValter ·asked Crandon to turn on the red
flash-light for 1:Y2 seconds, when he gave the word. A moment
later Walter said, "Light," and in the strong illumination from
the above mentioned light everyone but Litzelmann saw a cylin-
der about the size of a test tube (say 9
/1s inch diameter), and
about 3¥2 to 4 inches high, near the front edge of the loaded
or west pan. The scales ·were in kinetic balance and oscillating
freely. Litzelmann, said that he did not see this (after the
light had been turned out) so Walter said he would show it
again. In a succeeding period of illumination the cylinder was
again seen but this time it was in the center of the pan, sur-
rounded by the four wooden weights, and leaned very slightly
toward the Psychic. In appea1'ance the structure looked like
two glass tubes, one inside the other and both slightly smoky.
Walter explained that this was a ''sucker'' and not a vacuum
or anything of that sort; that we saw only the tip of it, which
was, in fact, a helix made up of an inner and an outer shell
''twisted round and round, just as though you took a roll of
paper and pulled out the center.'' When asked why he used a
helix he replied, "Because it can be stretched or bent when
664 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
you pick up the scales and move them around. If I used a rod
I would have to be on the end of it and follow it around.''
Q. ''What happens when an arm is passed across the top of
the scales and around them~" Walter : "Well, you know, it
is in the fourth dimension and can pass right through your
arm.9
Say, Parson (to Martin), I can walk right through you
just as though you weren't there. Tliere, I walked through
you!" Martin : "I felt you on this shoulder (left) ; as though
something crawled on it; but your voice stayed where it was.''
Walter: ''I am not in the voice apparatus. That is something
that I make up to talk through but I don't have to be in it.'' Re-
turning to a discussion of the cylinder, Walter said that ordi-
narily it could be photographed through a quartz lens but not
with a glass lens, and that it could not be seen.
The last presentation of this interesting structure was seen
by everyone in the circle and all agreed as to its appearance.
Bond, however, seemed able to see a greater length of it than
the rest of the group, although, in other respects his description
coincided with the others.
October 9th: Crandon's record for this date, after indicating
that the Little Theatre was initially in place on the table, tells
us:
The Sisyphus was put on the little stage and after a while we
aU saw the celluloid ball roll slowly up the incline, then it went
back and forth part way and at the same time we could see it
rotate in all directions. This was made evident by the three painted
equators on it, and was done in front of a bright red background.
'l'he balances made by Butler with the supporting beam under-
neath were now set on the stage. Stewart was told, by Walter,
speaking in good reel light, to put anything he pleased on one pan.
Stewart put on a bunch of keys and a brooch, total weight at least
eight ounces. ..After a period of darkness Walter proceeded, in
gooc1 red light, to mal;:e the scales oscillate in perfect balance as if
evenly laden.
The Little Theatre was now moved and the big scales were put
on the table. Walter made this balance with a four-to-one load in
good red light, plus red search light. This was repeated with Keyes
picking up the scales and turning completely around with them
· o Note Crawford's experiment in cutting across the region within which tele-
kinetic action was occurring without intel'fering with the levitation.
.,
TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 665
~n his hands with red light plus red search light playing upon
them while they oscillated evenly as if equally loaded.
Butler's glass bell-box was now put on the table and Walter
rang it freely in good red light and then rang it intermittently in
the hands of Keyes, Brown and Mrs. Keyes while they turned a
complete circle, each of them, with red light playing upon it. At
the last, in the hands of Mrs. Keyes, it seemed more difficult
because, as Walter said, his power was waning for the night.
On October 12th, after the photographic experiments detailed
in Chapter LVI, Walter returned to the Sistrum. He rang it both
with and without the self-contained light and then said: "It
looks as though Butler had fixed it this time. I don't know as
I can do much with it. Looks as though he had me stopped.''
The mechanism was heard to operate but the bell did not ring
and the lamp failed to light. Walter: "Ha! Ha! Here, Chief,
you take it. (Passed it to Richardson.) Now try it.'' Richard-
son pushed the flapper and it did not ring. Walter: "Now I
wonder what's the matter with it." Richardson tried it again
and the bell rang with light on; this was repeated. It was
passed to Crandon and again acted normally. It was still in
normal condition at the close of the seance. Butler had re-
paired the Sistrum since the last experiments. He had also
changed the ratio of the gears operating the arrow, with the
result that the momentum of the arrow was great enough to
throw the gears out of mesh when the flapper was operated
suddenly.10 Apparently Walter discovered this almost at once
and took advantage of the fact to put the Sistrum out of com-
mission, although he was still able to complete the circuit at
will.
Following a number of seances devoted largely to photo-
graphic work, discussed in Chapter LVI, the seance of October
24th was given for a number of strangers. Naturally the Butler
apparatus received the most attention, supported by the Com..
stock scales and the VCO. The following is abstracted from
Dudley's report:
1o As soon as this was drawn to Butler's attention l1e corrected the difficulty
and, a.t the sanie time, made a complete enlllosure for the gear and contact mechanism.
666 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
The Little Theatre was on the table with the sisyphus on the
stage. Walter turned on the light (in the Theatre), and the
celluloid ball 1·olled slowly up the incline to about the half-way
point, then rolled off the track until it rested against the illuminated
glass background. It was held in that pusitiou against its tendency
to roll back by some invisible mechanism. Dudley was watching
this operation through the clear glass of the west wing (from his
position as controller of the Psychic's left hand). Walter asked
him to turn off the light. As soon as this was done the ball was
heard to strike the stop at the bottom of the incline.
The Butler mechanical bell was put on the stage (the sisyphus
having been removed) and was rung several times. Dudley removed
the Theatre, and the other apparatus, at Walter's request, and
put the glass bell-box on the table.
Walter rang the bell-box with the lamp out, while it was on the
table and, under white flashlight, while it was passed around
the circle in the hands of Mrs. Hubbs, Mrs. Harrison, Harrison,
1\'[rs. Derieux and Dodd. The bell rang intermittently. Sometimes
the white light appeared to stop the ringing, at other times it did
not. The test was especially successful with Harrison. Walter
remarked: "Harrison is some man.! I am going to help myself
to what be's got." Harrison said that he felt "energy goiug out"
while he carried the box. Walter added, "Why don't you have
a circle like this all the time?" During this bell-box test the
outside partition was the only one in place. Bell-box removed
and scales put on table. Balanced without load, in red light.
Crandon put one weight in east pan; Dudley dropped four weights,
one by one, into the west pan (so that everyone in the circle could
count them). West pan gTounded as second weig·bt fell. In
smbsequent red-light period the scales balanced kinetically with
this load. Harrison picked up the scales and turned a complete
circle while Crandon played the white light on them, and they
continued to balance. Walter said, as soon as they had been
replaced on the table, ''If you could see the energy coming out
of Harrison you would see a stream twisting and turning like
a corkscrew. ''
The VCO was put on the table. Walter asked for a luminous
doughnut. It was placed, face down, on the table and at the east
end. It was moved by Walter to the west end of the table, picked
up, waved about over both ends of the table, in front of the VCO
and back to the table; picked up again and brought out to at
least a foot in front of the VCO tubes, so that the terminal was
silhouetted against the luminous floats. It was then thrown and
landed on Harrison's shoe. There was double control of the
Crandon-Margery link during these operations. The VCO te.st
was then completed, Mrs. Harrison guarding the top ·of the tube
and Harrison placing and removing the mouthpiece. The test was
an unusually good one, both as to talking and whistling.
TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 667
Dudley reports control of Margery (left hand) continuous,
except for periods when apparatus was being changed, and that she
was very quiet throughout.
NOVEMBER 5TH: Dudley controlled the Psychic's left hand
except while removing and replacing apparatus; Crandon con-
trolled the right as at the last sitting. She was very quiet
throug;hout. Quoting from Dudley's record:
Theatre on table with sisyphus, as before. Walter turned on
the light in the Theatre; the ball rolled slowly half way up the
incline, and then roUed slowly back. This was repeated twice in
the same period of red-light illumination. Dudley watched this
operation at close range and saw no extraneous mechanism in or
near the Theatre. At Walter's request, Dudley turned out the
light and removed The 'fheatre.
Glass bell-box put on the table. (In same condition as in last
report.) It rang without the light while on the table, and rang
intermittently while it was carried around within the circle by
Holmes, Golding, Mrs. Woolley and Mrs. Baker, white flashlight
being used most of the time. Again, with Holmes engineering,
it stopped ringing while his back was turned to the Psychic. He
asked Walter to start it ringing and it rang. The Psychic showed
mark-ed reactions to the prolonged flashes of white light.
VCO tested successfully with Holmes engineering.
On November 17th there was a seance, attended by Mrs.
Richardson and several other ladies, to whom various com-
munications were vouchsafed. Walter manipulated the dough-
nut freely, gave various touches, pulled the hair of sitters;
otherwise t4e evening was given over to talk.
On the following evening there was a sitting for some seven
strangers. Again quoting from Dudley's record:
'fhe Butler apparatus was again used, beginning with the
sistrum. Walter's comment was to the effect that Butler seemed
to have fixed the sistrum but that he (Walter) thought that he
could prevent it from ringing. It was face down on the table and
it rang with the red light (its own) on. Dudley admitted that
it might be possible for Walter to do as he said, to which Walter
countered with : ''You wouldn't have befor-e I played that trick
on you downstairs (putting it out of commission in the light, see
pp. 661-62) ; it would take a long· thin finger to do the trick." The
flapper of the sistrum was heard to work up and down but t.he
bell did not ring. It was passed round th-e circle and rang as
long as it was held face downward but when, at Walter's request,
668 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
it was held vertically, it stopped ringing. This was tried several
times.
rrhe glass bell-box was put on the table and rang with the light
unscrewed (presumably by Walter, since the light was connected
at the beginning of the experiment). It then rang with the light
on while it was carried round the circle by Mrs. Guest, Cotton,
Erwin, Mrs. Franks and her son. The green :flash was turned
on the box at frequent intervals during this experiment, and seemed
to produce less interference than any other, while giving good
illumination. Walter said that the :flappers were very difficult to
handle because they had to be placed exactly on center. The bell-
box was returned to the table. Walter handed something to Franks
with the request that it be passed to Dudley. It was one of the
small cells of battery from the bell-box. He then passed out another
with a similar request, and suggested that Dudley keep them.
Scales (Comstock) put on table. Balanced in red light and·
were then unbalanced as Franks put in a 1:4 load (4 in west pan).
In subsequent red-light interval they balanced kinetically while
Cotton11 picked them up and turned a complete circle. When
replaced on the table and in subsequent darkness, a luminous mass
appeared in the east pan and the scales oscillated violently; the
luminous mass rising and falling in consonance with the sounds
made by the grounding pans.
VCO tested while Cotton protected the top of the tube and
Franks placed and r emoved the mouthpiece. Franks controlled the
Psychic's left hand. Walter talked, laughed and whistled freely.
Walter closed the seance at 10:30, with the request that the
red light be left burning all night.12
Walter got a great "kick" out of his sistrum experiments
in mystification but, having practically exhausted its possibili-
ties as a source of mechanical and electrical puzzles, he made
no further use of it.
The next seance at which telekinesis was the order of the
day was the very important one of December 3d, held at the
Baker residence during Crandon's absence on a brief European
trip. The background of this sitting is adequately described
at the point referred to. The record was drawn up from mem-
ory by Whitney and Mrs. Baker, the following day; and it
carries their signatures. It gives us the following picture of
11 J. R. Cotton,·not the E. I-I. Cotton of Chapter XIX.
12 This is a fairly frequent request after strangers have been present. Walter
conveys the idea that visiting discarnates t1·y to manifest to their friends and, if
they can, to get control of the energy that he has stored in the seance room. He says
that the light acts to break the connection and prevent them from reforming it.
Sometimes Crandon finds the light turned out in the morning. In this case it was
still burning.
TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 669
the seance, which it may again be emphasized was held 011
strange premises, and without even Crandon's knowledge:
On the table in front of the Psychic was a silver dish and bowl
of cold water. Kettle of boiling water on the hearth. Fife brought
a box of dental wax. Whitney and Baker both had marked pieces
in their pockets.
The medium was in trance soon after 8:30 P.M. and Walter
vocalized almost immediately. Shortly after the sitters were all
conscious of very cool breezes and the coldness of the Psychic's
and Whitney's hands were mentioned. Fife reported touches and
Whitney reported a touch on his "bald spot" and his shoulder.
Several articles were placed one at a tim!l in the silver dish ; a
spool of thread, box of matches, cigarette box and gold bracelet
were all identified. Then we were told to put on the red light, fill
the dish with hot water and put in a piece of wax. Two well
defined impressions were put in the wax, a left- and a right-hand
thumb-print (afterwards identified by Fife as "Walter" prints).
While force was accumulating for another demonstration of finger-
printing a basket was rocked and levitated from the table three
feet or more, followed by an exhibition of "lights out" on the
handle of the basket, sitters reporting variously on the number of
lights left, sometimes one, sometimes two being extinguished for
a second or two.13
Dish was again filled with water and another piece of wax
received a single imprint from the same thumb.
Paper doughnut placed on table was covered and extinguished
when whirled and levitated.
Walter whistled and talked with animation during the whole
time-ended by throwing the megaphone (which was on the floor
at Whitney's left at beginning of sitting and had not been touched
by any of the sitters) at Baker.
At the request of Walter, Whitney placed the illuminated dough-
nut on the table and put his nose through the hole of the doughnut.
Walter then pulled Whitney's hair twice with an upward lift of
approximately five or six pounds.
DECEMBER 12, 1927. A second seance held in Crandon's
absence.14 The following brief account is abstracted from
Dudley's record:
1a Walter says that he is doing scientific research with the sitters as subjects.
By obscuring one or more luminous bands in such manner that some are seen from
one angle and not from another, he gets the sitters to make apparently contradic-
tory reports as to what they do see.
14 The sitters, in order: Richardson, Mrs. Richardson, Mrs. Millea, Dr. Rock-
well, Theron Pierce, Mrs. Butler, Dudley, Fife. Outside, in same order: Mrs. Chur-
chill, E. B. Millea, F. B. Bond and Mrs. Pierce. Shortly after the seance began
Walter asked Mrs. Pierce to change places with Mrs. Butler.
670 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Walter asked for the luminous "doughnut," and when this
was put on glass bell-box (on the table) by F·ife, he levitated it
several fe€t above the table and from one side to the other of the
circle, a distance of at least five feet. He then asked for the basket,
and Fife put the small luminous basket on the bell-box, whence
it was immediately removed to the table top, and just as quickly
returned to the bell-box. Walter demonstrated that he could change ·
its position .before any member of the circle (in response to Walter's
question) could state where the basket was located.15 It was then
levitated to the top of the cabinet, then to each side in turn, rapped
on the west wall of the cabinet, held out beyond the outer €dge
of the table, but dropped to the floor at Dudley's feet. From
there it was picked up and thrown to Pierce, and, falling to th€
floor again, was again picked up when approximately six feet from
the Psychic.
The non-luminous basket was passed for a collection of articles
for cognition, which were described by Walter as : a cigarette box,
match, pencil, another pencil, ''also belonging to an insurance
man,'' cough drop, and then passed·the basket to Mrs. Richardson,
who removed the articles and handed it to Mrs. Churchill. The
latter held it above Mrs. Richardson's head, whence it was snatched
by Walter, and thrown violently into the north-east corner of the
room.
Many of these operations were of such nature as to suggest
that Walter was working from a point well removed from the
medium. His voic€ was loud and, at times, very husky; distinctly
masculine. During some of the levitations there was bilateral
double control.
Walter worked the glass bell-box, then asked Dudley to pick
it up in red light. The latter did this, turning completely about
while the bell rang continuously. This was repeated with Rockwell
in the capacity of engineer, and with Dudley turning the green
flash on the bell. It rang the number of times requested by Millea,
rang while he picked it up, raised it high, and Dudley turned the
green flash on it again.
The bell-box was removed and the Comstock model scales sub-
stituted. They balanced perfectly in red light, without load. In
a subsequent period of darkness Walter asked for four weights
in either pan and one in the other. Fife put the 4 in the east
pan and the single weight in the west pan, thus reversing the
usual order, (the other loading being used because the rider is
secured at the east end of the beam, and, even if it be assumed
to be free, could not be of the slightest assistance in ·counterbalanc-
ing an excess w€ight in the west pan.
Walter laughed, and said, "You son-of-a-gun, you would put
them in wrong. You put four in the side that I had my teleplasm
in, and now I've got to shift it over to the other pan. Think you're
15 The basket being used at this time as an object of telekinesis. It weighs
four ounces (Av.).
TELEKINESIS OF LATER 1927 671
going to fool me, don't you~ Thought that I couldn't do it. Well,
turn on the light for one second.'' The light was turned on for
about two · seconds, and the scales were seen in kinetic balance.
vValter: ''Dr. Rockwood, you come over and pick ·up the scales
and turn around with them. Dudley, you turn the green light on
them." Rockwood carried the scales (still balancing kinetically)
about the circle, turning slowly, and holding them close to each
sitter in turn, while Dudley played the green flash over them, the
red light (mantel) being on at the same time, thus providing an
exceptionally good illumination.
A seance on December 22d, in celebration of Crandon's re-
turn, was devoted wholly to chatting with Walter on topics
serious and frivolous. The next seance was on the 30th, and
Crandon's record notes extensive physical action, as follows:
Walter came through in about three minutes and greeted every-
body singly and collectively. He played for a while with a new
windmill bell-box of Butler's and he then identified something
which Richardson brought as being a daily calendar.
Walter then did some very extensive levitation with the luminous
doughnut and on request showed his terminal slowly passing over
the luminous limb of the doughnut. All could see it. Then on
request he touched the head of Burchell as it lay on the table.
Walter then did some beautiful levitation and throwing about
of the luminous basket, and twice threw it into the lap of the
woman farthest away.
The scales were now put on the table. Burchell was told to
put four weights on either pan and one on the other. Then Walter
balanced the pans as if evenly laden, while Burchell lifted the
scales unit, turned a complete circle, 360 degrees, the pans oscil-
lating gently and evenly all the while in reel light plus white flash-
light.
Walter now exhibited the use of the Richardson VCO machine.
There was some difficulty in the Psychic's holding the glass tip
because she has not done it now for many months, but at last the
experiment was repeated three times with Walter whistling and
joking and finally reciting the vowels a-e-i-o-u. He then defied
any one of the sitters to even say "a" in the same condition.
Although several of the succeeding seances followed the
routine pattern in their telekinetic content, and in spite of a
considerable hiatus in these phenomena during the intense coll-
centration on the cross-correspondences, there will be some
advantage in grouping the remaining incidentR in . the next
chapter.
CHAPTER LIV
Telekinesis in 1928 and 1929
As the cognitive phenomena of this period increased in com-
plexity and developed into cross-correspondences of the con-
trolled type, the telekinetic phase was relegated to the back·
ground, except in certain sittings when it was desirable to
present a wide range of phenomena for visitors who were
interested in the scientific study of the mediumship. From a
review of previous seances it might appear that several different
types of phenomena can be presented in the same seance with-
out interference, in an energetic sense; hence, that telekinetic
phenomena and such subjective activities as are involved in
the cross-correspondences could be carried on in parallel. How-
ever, the writer finds, from a study of his notes, that there
appears to be a considerable expenditure of energy in a suc-
cessful cross-correspondence-much greater, in fact, than one
would anticipate. If this assumption is correct it may explain
why so few of the purely telekinetic phenomena were presented
during the succeeding months, and why those few were largely
of routine character. In general, an increase in the complexity
of the cross-correspondences (including more than two me-
diums) seemed to result in an almost complete exclusion of
physical phenomena, especially during the early stages of this
experimentation, and vice versa. The routine phenomena may,
therefore, be dismissed with the briefest mention of their nature,
merely to complete the record of the number of s·eances held,
more space being given to the description of a few seances
involving special features of interest, followed by complete re-
ports of the phenomena of the last two seances in this group
in 19·29.
On January 4, 1928, the sitting was devoted, in large part,
to the initial phase of an experiment in post-seance writing of
material cognized during the seance which, at a later date,
672
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 673
developed into the cross-correspondences described in the
Journal, 19'28. The glass bell-box was also used, but in slightly
different form: the g·lass partitions forming the labyrinthian
passage were fixed in their staggered position, and their exposed
edges had been faced with chamois skin. Walter found these
soft edges much kinder to his teleplasmic terminal, and rang
the bell successfully, as usual.
A wooden box, filled flush and smooth with oiled moulder's
sand, had been provided by Butler, who suggested that it might
be used as a means of obtaining impressions of the larger struc-
tures. Walter was told that he might make an imprint of a
hand, foot, or face in this sand. He said that he had made a
print in the sand; whereupon Dudley removed the box to the
back room/ and noted that there were two holes in the sand,
near one corner, each about the size of the latter's index finger.
These did not show any trace of ridge markings. After the
seance Margery found that her lips and the whole inside of
her mouth, even to the surfaces of the gums next the cheeks,
were coated with this oiled sand. So firmly did it adhere to
the mucous membrane that she had to brush her mouth vigor-
ously before she succeeded in removing 'it.1
a The results were
so unpleasant that she did not care to have this experiment
cartied further.
January 28th: Largely routine in character, involving levi-
tation of doughnut through a wide arc and with marked pro-
jection well outside of cabinet, silhouetting of terminal over
tlie luminous ring of doughnut, identification of objects, ringing
of glass bell-box, and balancing of scales with 4:1 load, in red
light and with white flashlight. Scales held above table by
Belknap, in red light, while in kinetic balance, and flashlight
photograph taken.1
b Flashlight was turned on scales while still
1 Where it was examined in strong, white light.
1a See Clai1·voyance and Mate1·ialization, p. 184. Geley notes that teleplasm:
"Issues most frequently from the mouth [of Eva C.] and this· is the easiest to
observe; it can be seen exuding from the inner surface of the cheeks, from the arch
of the palate, and the gums. It takes on different aspects-sometimes (and this is
the most characteristic) the appearance of a kind of plastic protoplasmic paste,
sometimes a number of fine threads.''
1b As was done on November 21, 1927. This procedure became somewhat
standardized.
674 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
in balance on table, before Kunz could close all the lenses;
hence, Walter said that he would try again. Another photo-
graph was taken but neither showed any supernormal structures.
This was followed by the usual VCO test.
January 29th: Crandon's record notes doughnut and basket
levitations, the basket being picked up from the floor and placed
on the table, at and over the side and edge farthest from the
Psychic.
February 7th: An interested gathering of ministers of vari-
ous Unitarian and Universalist connections was assembled in
Lime Street; and between intervals of philosophical wrangling
between Walter and these gentlemen about what life in the
Hereafter ought to be like,2
a brilliant physical show was staged.
The record may be given verbatim so far as it covers this:
Walter read a calendar number which Cotton put on the table,
one not known to Cotton or anyone else; then he did the same for
Caldecott. He levitated the doughnut all over the place and showed
his fingers grasping it. He levitated the luminous basket with
gT€at speed in all diredions, high and low; then threw it across
the room. While Crandon was out of the room,3 with strict control
of the medium he picked up the luminous doughnut from the :floor
to the table. He op€rated the balances with 1: 4 load, arranged
2 Walter has very pronounced views, quite at variance with those of the average
clergyman. He has no use whatever for harps and halos, and none for a life of
leisure. He strongly decries any display of emotion in connection with the transition
from this life to the next. He insists upon the objective character of his own world,
and upon the fact that it is as commonplace to its people as ours is to us·. One
might rather well express his attitude by saying that he sees no more occasion for
any different attitucle on the contrast between his world and ours than should exist
between an Englishman and an American on the contrast between their respective
countries. The situation which confronts him in the seance room in the presence
of ministers always has its trying as well as its amusing aspects. One worthy cleric
insisted on interrogating Walter about the adequacy of some elaborate mechanistic
ideas which he had formulated to explain the efficacy of prayer. Others want to
talk to him about salvation, his soul, etc. The present record remarks that ''the
usual number of earnest but foolish questions was asked and Walter held his own
with the brightest of the sitters." It was probably on another occasion that Walter,
after half an hour's effart to get an intelligent human reaction out of a group of
exceptionally long·faced clerics, remarked profanely that if these were ministers,
we might give him plumbers.
s Crandon left to answer the telephone and when he was ready to return \Valter
instructed Dudley to tell hip1 to sit on the cedar chest in the hall; meanwhile Walter
talked to the ministers, levitated the doughnut, and seemed to be trying to make it
clear to the sitters that Crandon's presence was not related to the phenomena.
Dr. Cotton controlled Margery's left hand, and one of the strangers had her right
hand in Crandon's absence.
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 675
on the pans by Cloud on his own option. H e repeated this with
Cotton in the cabinet, back to the medium, lifting the whole scales
unit high.3" He operated the VCO, which previously had been tried
out by some of the sitters. As a final act he stopped the victrola.
March 28, 1928. This was a glass-cabinet sitting in which
the wire ties were applied by Carter, while Mrs. McKenzie
and Fife had tactual control of the Psychic's hands throughout,
except for brief periods when apparatus was placed or removed.
Including Crandon, there were seventeen sitters. Dudley, seated
at the east corner of the old cabinet where a shaded dark-room
lamp could be used, kept a record of events and times, which
forms the basis of the present abstract.
There were correc~ cognitions of four wooden letters (a ran-
dom selection by Mrs. McKenzie), followed by cognitions of
personal articles ranging from a cigarette lighter to a pocket-
book. Then followed levitations of the luminous basket during
which Walter specifically called attention to the fact that he
was talking and whistling while the basket moved about freely
and through a considerable range. He referred to the allegation
that he couldn't talk with the basket in the air because Margery
did it with her mouth. The basket was thrown into the back
of cabinet, and as Fife reached for it in red light, ·walter spoke
to him-in answer to the suggestion made by some member of
the circle, that he couldn't talk in this illumination.
Mechanical bell (Butler's) placed on shelf by Mrs. McKen-
zie, and rung three times. She reported that it had been .moved
along the shelf toward the Psychic's right, when she came to
remove it.
In preparation for the VCO test, Carter unlocked collar in
red light. Walter spoke to him at this time and Carter stated
that the voice came from well back in the cabinet. VCO test
engineered by Mrs. McKenzie, and reported as very successful.
During this experiment Crandon's mouth and hands were con-
trolled by Carter. The latter checked all ties and removed them.
The sitting was resumed in the old cabinet with Mrs. Mc-
Kenzie controlling at the left and Fife at the right, (Dudley
sa In continuous red light with white light above and below scales.
676 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
remaining in his original position, which placed him just behind
and to tl1e left of Fife.) The scales were loaded 1 :4 by Mrs.
McKenzie, in red light, and were then engineered by Carter,
who turned through 360° while they balanced kinetically in
red light with white flashlight turned on them by Crandon. This
operation covered a period of 45 seconds.
Continuous tactual control of Margery's hands reported dur-
ing this sitting in the old cabinet. The scales were examined
before and after the sitting by one of the professors in the
group.
The seance lasted for one hour and eight minutes.
April19, 1928. Margery and Hardwicke were in the cabinet,
with Richardson controlling Hardwicke 's left hand and Crandon
at Margery's right. The adjacent sitters were Dr. F. B. Mocen-
ter and Mrs. Litzelmann, respectively, with Bird sitting next
to the latter.4
Bird reported touches on left knee; Crandon said that he was
touched on the head by a cold hand ; Richardson reported touches
first on hand then one knee (probably on right side), while Bird
added that his knee was grasped firmly, as though by fingers. The
table came down on the floor with a heavy thud, although no one
had reported its levitation, and moved away from the cabinet. This
movement was repeated several times. Richardson reported control
of Hardwicke's left foot but there was no other report of control.
(The position of the two mediums in reference to the cabinet made
such control difficult unless this were applied from beneath the
table.)
.Walter spoke briefly, and almost at once a luminous mass was
seen in the cabinet near Margery. It moved up, down, across to
the west side of the cabinet (Hardwicke's left), down to the floor,
and then back to the east side of cabinet. After a few moments
of quiescence it became larger, approached the table, and, as it
appeared to contact the latter, a sharp rap was heard.
At Walter's request, Bird bent forward to place his head on
the table and as he did so reported that he felt something under
his forehead, something that ·seemed to be movable and on which
'l This abstract is compiled from Dudley's notes, and, as noted in the text,
contains numerous statements by the other sitters. The agreement as to the natme
of the phenomena was good among those who were well situated to observe them,
and varied with distance and angle of view of the other sitters. Crandon's report
notes that the luminous arm was a lett arm; also, that, throughout the seance,
Walter kept saying, in a low voice, ''Lots of trouble; this tandem business,'' mean-
ing, presumably, three mediums in trance at the same time.
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 677
he could rock his head, but that he could not determine its size.
He lowered his head to the table and both Crandon and 1\'Iillea
(the latter seated behind Bird) described a luminous arm that
seemed to have two claws at its end, reaching out toward the back
of Bird 's neck (as they estimated his position). Bird added ~hat
something took hold of his hair and pulled it vigorously, then
pulled the collar of his coat as though to pull it over his head,
and added that there was something on the table at this time.
Everyone in the circle could see the luminous structure, although
some were in a better position to describe its movements than were
others. As Bird sat up Crandon described the luminous structure
as stretching out almost to Bird's face, while Bird confirmed the
fact that that it was very close to his face. Crandon; Bird and
Millea then united in describing this phenomenon as taking the
form of an arm that moved and flexed in a normal manner, the
biceps swelling and relaxing. The fingers were described as visible
when the hand was open, and the fist as clenched at other times.
At Bird's request, the hand struck the table a heavy blow. Walter
made the direct statement that this was his arm.
Before this luminous mass took the form of an arm it varied
in shape and size from that of a large orange to a column more
than a foot long and from four to five inches wide, while the
luminosity was even more variable, changing from a clearly defined
bluish light to a somewhat vaguely defined cloud-like effect.
A flashlight photograph was made,5 after which the mediums
(Margery, Hardwicke and Mrs. Litzelmann) awoke. All stated
that they had not been asleep. However, none of them knew that
the flash powder had been ignited. The seance was of 65 minutes
duration.
While the evidential value of such phenomena as the above
may not be as great as under more exacting conditions of control
it is interesting to note the wider range of the telekinetic action
and the marked increase in the intensity of the luminous phenomena
when several mediums are present.
April 26th: The scales were used at this sitting and balanced
in red light with a 1:4 load, placed by Comstock, at his choice.
Instead of the usual kinetic balance, they were in exact static
balance. Walter drew particular attention to this; remarking
to Dudley that the latter had said that he (\iValter) could not
do this. (It is true that I had made this statement in the course
of conversation in the book room. E . E. D.)
May lOth: The scales were engineered by Dudley after
Grandi had placed a 1 :4 load; balanced almost statically while
5 But showed no supernormal structures.
678 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
on the table in red light, and while carried around the circle;
but in a subsequent period of red light (after about 7 to 8 sec-
onds of darkness) were unbalanced, the heavy pan grounded.
A moment later, in red light, they balanced kinetically. This
sequence was again repeated; i.e., first, unbalance; then kinetic
balance; followed by unbalance, and the close of the·test.
May 23d : The scales were used, engineered by Dr. Pierce,
as above; while the VCO test was successfully completed, also
under Pierce's control.
Again, on May 25th, both the scales and VCO were demon-
strated, the former engineered by Dudley, the latter under the
control of Horace Leaf.
June 3d :6
The luminous basket was levitated and while in the air above
the table the doughnut (luminous) was removed from inside the
basket and levitated separately. The basket fell to the floor.
Crandon reported a cold terminal moving along his left arm until
it touched the ring on his finger; Tillyard then described the dough-
nut as being held close to his face, although it was invisible to
the rest of the circle; and added that three fingers and a thumb
were visible over the luminous surface. The doughnut was t hen
thrown to the floor, and the "basket was levitated therefrom and
held upside down over the table. Walter invited Tillyard to grasp
the basket, after which there was a tug-of-war until Tillyard released
his hold, stating that he was afraid the basket would be broken.
The basket was levitated freely in the back of the cabinet while
Tillyard held his right hand and the medium 's left hand over her
mouth; after which the basket was thrown to the opposite side
of the circle (directly away from the cabinet) . Tillyard then
reported touches on arm, hand, cheek and head, the last being
described as of five fingers. Brown added that he was touched
on the head; .whereupon Tillyard reported that Walter grasped
the fingers of his (T 's) right hand with which he controlled Mar-
gery's left hand.
Throughout these activities the controllers reported continuous
control of the Psychic's hands.
In red light, and under the same control, a hand was seen on
the table. Tillyard said that his right hand was carried across
to this teleplasmic structure, and that the back of his hand was
o The sitters in order (cloclnvise) : Margery, Dr. R. J. Tillyard, Dr. Richard-
son, Mr. J. H . Brown, :M:r. J. F1·ed Adler, Mr. Dudley, Mr. J. W. Evans (Dr. Till-
yard's assistant), Mrs. Richardson, Dr. Crandon, Dr. Edison W. Brown. Outside
tba circle : Mr. Kunz, with cameras.
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 679
pressed down firmly.7 He then described this hand-like formation
as boneless, cold, with small wrist, and having five fingers with a
nail on the thumb but none on the other digits; and added that
it was a right hand.
These phenomena are particularly significant because of their
nature, the area within which they occurred, and the continuity
of control by Drs. Tillyard and Brown.8
June 16, 1928. The controllers at this seance were Richard-
son and Crandon, with Walton and Mrs. Richardson adjacent.
F·ollowing the preparatory steps in a post-seance test, there
were free levitations of the doughnut under bilateral double con-
trol, Dr. Harvey standing in front of Mrs. Richardson and con-
trolling the Crandon-Margery link; followed by levitations of the
basket under the same control. As a result of Harvey's sug-
gestion that this latter might be done with the feet, the basket
was thrown at him when he took his seat (and in darkness), and
this was followed by the small soft pillow that was at the back
of Margery's chair; while Walton reported control of both Mar-
gery's feet. As this control of her lower extremities continued,
one of her shoes was removed and brought down on the table with
a loucl bang ! Control of both Margery's hands and both legs
reported as continuous by Walton.
The VCO test was carried out under Harvey's control.
July 14, 1928. This was a sitting in Mrs. Stinson's room
on the eve of her eightieth birthday. A birthday cake was on
a small table about six feet from the head of the bed, and just
in front of the three-part screen that formed the extemporized
cabinet. Eight candles in their holders added to the decorations
of the cake. After these had been blown out by Mrs. Stinson,
Margery was reported in trance. Walter spoke a few momentf'1
later, joked with his sister Clara and his mother, told stories
of his boyhood, and then advised his mother to eat some of
the cake. ·while he had been talking the cake (as it appeared
to the sitters) had become enveloped in a bluish light. This ·
cloud of light left the vicinity of the table and passed over to
the bed, as vValter said, ''Will you take it if I hand it to you ~ ''
Then the light returned and there was a sound as though the
cake were replaced on the table. The conversation continued,
carried on mostly by Walter; while the luminous cloud rose
1 It is understood that the Psychic's left band guided Tillyard's band. She
seems to function as an automaton when in trance, especially when the trance i~
apparently a deep one.
s This abstract is from Dudley's report of the seance.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
~nid fell over the cake. A candle was thrown to Miss Crandon,
·.a candle-holder to another sitter, followed by more candle-
holders thrown in different directions.
The luminous phenomena continued throughout the sitting,
·until just before vValter said good-night.
Naturally, this sitting was not held under rigid control, and
the impropriety of attempting to evaluate it from a purely
psychological basis is obvious, but the atmosphere of natural-
ness and spontaneity which .marked every phase of it, as well
as the sincerity and unaffected quality of vValter 's conversation,
which was so obviously directed toward making his mother's
illness more endurable, constitute an interesting addition to the
subjective side of the mediumship.
· The sittings of November 17th and 18th were marked by
levitations, etc., of routine character, in the presence of Mar-
gery and Valiantine, with Asano controlling Valiantine and Mrs.
Cannon exercising double control of Crandon ai1d Margery. On
the second evening the scales were engineered by Dudley, and
VCO test by Asano.
As we enter the new year we :find that the telekinetic phase of
the mediumship is more frequently presented and under more
than average conditions of control, as might be expected from
the nature of the sittings. However, it is not easy to find many
new forms in which these routine telekinetic phenomena can be
produced; hence, the descriptions of many of them may be con-
densed to a few lines, with specific references to the names of
the controllers and the nature of their control.
Thus, the telekinetic action on February 23rd, 1929, was of
standard form: the scales were engineered by Dudley after a
1:4 load had been placed by Pope; ·while the VCO test was
successfully completed under the control of Pope and Mrs.
Waters.
The seance of March 28th included practically the same
action as the above, as did that of April 16th.
The sitting of May 3rd 9
might have been dismissed in the
o The sitters, in order, were: Margery, Richardson, Dudley, Judge Cannon,
Mrs. Sears, Mrs. Crowell, M1·s. .Stewart, Mr. Crowell, Mrs. Cannon, Crandon, Capt.
Fife. Outside: Miss Haniet Richardson. Dudley was outside when the seance
began, but Walter 1·equested that he ''get into tl1e circle.''
'fELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 681
same way were it not for an interesting spontaneous contribll-
tion by Walter.
Following some cognitions of personal articles, Walter asked
for the scales. 'fhese were engineered by Dudley after Crowell
had placed a 1 :4 load. Dudley then activated the floats of the
VCO, while in the hall, and placed the apparatus on the table.
The test was successfully completed under the control of Crowell.
The glass mouthpiece was removed and the armored tube hung
over the edge of the table next to the Psychic, Richardson and
Fife remaining in control. As a rule this indicates t1Jat the seance
is nearing its close, and Margery does not again go into trance,
but in this instance it was noted that she had again gone to sleep.
Suddenly, the floats in the VCO tube were displaced, the one
in the open leg of the U-tube rose to the very top and water spilled
out on the table. Dudley exercised double control of the Richard-
son-Margery link, wbile Mrs. Cannon controlled both of Crandon's
hands and Fife's right hand; the latter carried hi.· left hand and
Margery's right to cover her mouth. The float was pnshed back
into the tube and fell to normal water level. In the meantime,
the float in the closed leg had jammed in the bend of the U-tube,
thus indicating that air pressure had been applied to this leg of
the water column. The water column now swung in the opposite
direction, the free float descended to the bend and stuck there,
indicating that the air had been partially exhausted in the closed
leg. 1'he whole VCO (see Plate 20, vol. 1) was then tipped almost
to the horizontal, releasing the latter float, vvhich returned to normal
position as the VCO was again set upright on the base.10
The
other float was still stuck in the bend. Again the free float rose
to the top of the open leg and considerable water spilled over on
to the table and floor.
At various stages in these operations the luminous band at the
top of the open tube (five feet above the floor) was obscured by
some opaque object. 'fhe control noted above was maintained
throughout these maneuvers, which took place rapidly and with
every indication that the equipment was under complete control
of the operator. That this operator was no one in the circle was
sufficiently evident to all those who witnessed these phenomena.
But one person was outside the circle: Miss Harriet Richardson,
and she is eliminated from any assumption of normal connection
with the phenomena not only by her position but by the correctness
of her attitude toward the phenomena.
May 14th: This sitting was given over almost wholly to a
VCO test controlled by Mrs. Baggallay and Mrs. Pierson, ·with
10 The total weight of the VCO, including the iron retort stand on which it is
mounted,. is 7.5 pounds. It is estimated that, _when tipp~d as n~ted, at least
one-half of this weight is supported by the mechamsm producmg the d1splacement.
682 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Margery's hands and arms under tape control, and after she
and the seance room had been thoroughly searched, with nega-
tive results. The door was locked by Mrs. Baggallay, the
remaining sitters being in the room across the hall. Under
these conditions a very successful test was conducted, continu-
ing for an unusual length of time. In spite of the closed door,
Walter's voic~ and whistle could be heard in the back room.
On June 7th,there were levitations of the basket and dough-
nut, followed by touches on the hands of Butler and Ash, and
on ~Irs. Kelton's head, while these members were held over
the luminous ring. The VCO test was carried out under tape
control as above. The controllers were Richardson and Cran-
don, with Miss Johnson and Mrs. Richardson in the adjacent
chairs.
August 2d: With the same controllers as above but with
Drs. Peebles and Keith in .the places adjacent, the VCO test
was again conducted under the above conditions, followed by
levitations of the basket.
The sitting of August 4th was held at the Cabin (Point
.Shirley) and is reported by Crandon to have involved free •
levitations of the doughnut, hair pulling, touches, and placing
the doughnut on the heads of Mrs. Richardson and Richardson
in turn. It then fell to the latter's chair, between his knees,
and he reported that John (who purported to be operating)
pressed up on the under side of the former's right leg. vVhen
the leg was lifted in response to this pressure, the doughnut
was removed. All the above are described as occurring under
strict control.
August 8th: This seance included free levitations and move-
ments of the basket and doughnut as well, above the table
and of considerable amplitude, and, at times, with marked rapid-
ity. The doughnut was hung on Grainger's thumb and removed.
Mrs. Berger controlled the Crandon-Margery link at this time
while Ozora Davis controlled Margery's left hand. The VCO
test was successfully completed under Mrs. Berger's controL
TELEKINESIS IN 192'8 AND 1929 683
For August 24th, it is noted that \llfalter hung the luminous
basket on Button's neck and removed it therefrom, no less than
three times; then hung the doughnut on Button's thumb (right),
after having placed it on the latter's right arm and removed
it. Button reported control of Margery's left hand and foot;
while Mrs. Jacobson reported double .control of the Crandon-
Margery link. The VCO test was carried out under tape control,
with the same control as above in addition to Mrs. Jacobson's
control of Crandon's mouth, Dr. Jacobson guarding the top
of the tube. Walter repeated the Peter Piper rhyme, and
whistled Annie Laurie and Yankee Doodle, with variations.
The seance of September 8th was the first for Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller, and since it is almost wholly devoted to a successful
cross-correspondence test, the incidental telekinesis requires no
mention at this point.
, The seance of the 13th was marked by considerable levita-·
tion of the basket, and the sudden appearance of an unsuspected
coin in the basket while Schiller controlled Margery's left and
Brown her right hand. The VCO test was carried out under
similar control.
September 12th: Schiller and Brown controlled, while the
report is by Crandon. A luminous phenomeno·n of cloud-like
form and varying in size up to 4 inches broad and one foot high,
appeared above the table and is noted as having passed as far
as a foot each side of the table and three feet above it. There
was levitation of the basket to a great height and of considerable
amplitude transversely; then it was hung on Schiller's neck.
It was also levitated while Schiller and Brown joined hands
around it and lifted their arms well above it. Before the cog..
nitions of articles, Walter passed the doughnut through the
handle of the basket in a horizontal plane, and at least seven
times. It is noted that there was no break or hesitation in this
movement.
The seance of September 28th involved levitations of the
basket, and rapping with coins while Martin controlled at the
left and Dessoir had double control of the Crandon-Margery
684 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
linkY The VCO test was carried out under tape control of
the medium's wrists, with Dessoir controlling Crandon. Fur-
ther levitations occurred on the following night 12
with Dudley
and Brown occupying the position of control. Walter touched
Dudley on the right hand with the basket, while Mrs. Dessoir
had double control. This was repeated as the basket swung
in a wide arc across the table. Dessoir had double control at
least a part of this time. The basket was hung on Dessoir 's
neck and he was told to grab it after Walter had removed it.
He failed to hold it tightly enough and, as his grip loosened,
the basket swung clear across the table, touching Dudley's right
hand at the end of its travel. Control of Margery's hands
reported as complete.
There were cold breezes coming from the cabinet at times;
Dudley and Mrs. Dessoir noting them at the left and Brown
and Dessoir at the right. Dudley observed that, at one time,
this blast of cold air seemed to be equally distributed over a
height of two feet and to be of approximately uniform intensity,
as though it. were a wind blowing from a narrow orifice two
feet high.
Following the cognitions of articles and rapping on the table
with a coin, as requested by Dessoir, the scales were engineered
by Dudley in red light, after being loaded 4:1 by Dessoir. They
balanced kinetically in red light with white flashlight, as they
were carried round the circle. After they had been returned
to the table and the light was turned out, the east, or laded pan
struck the base sharply, as it would if normally loaded, but
on Crandon's request that Dessoir be allowed to examine the
scales in balance Walter asked for light and the scales were
again in kinetic balance. Dessoir 's right hand and Crandon's
left then explored under the east pan (the normally loaded pan).
As they were doing so Walter said: "Let him pass his hand
1 1 This was the first of three sittings for Dr. Max Dessoir. The sitters, in
order, were : Margery, Dr. Alfred W. Martin, Mrs. Dessoir, Mr. Dudley, Miss Har-
riet Richardson, Mrs. Richardson, Miss Laura Crandon, Dr. Dessoir, Dr. Crandon.
1 2 The sitters were : Margery, Dudley, Mrs. Dessoir, Mrs. E. W. Brown, Mr.
J. H. Brown, Miss Ritner, Dr. Crandon, Dr. Dessoir, and Dr. E. W. Brown.
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 685
over the pan without touching it." As he said this Dudley
was watching Margery's face, which was turned toward the
right so that the mouth was clearly visible in the red light.
He states that her lips were closed and did not move, while
the voice seemed to come from a point above the right shoulder
and was clear and strong.
Further examination of the scales in white flashlight brought
marked physical reactions from the Psychic with each exposure
to white light. After the fourth of these flashes Dudley noted
a prolonged muscular spasm of the left arm and hand.
At both of these seances Mrs. Dessoir drew attention to a
spot of light in the seance room. This was located near the
floor in the corner to the right of the door. It was, in fact,
one of the small luminous markers such as are used to locate
the pull-chains of lights, and in this case was built into a piece
of Butler's apparatus. Such markers are frequently used on
apparatus or to indicate the position of one point with reference
to another. Their luminosity is insuf-ficient to permit of per-
ceiving printed matter, for example.
October 2, 1929. This was the first of a series of four sittings
for Lord Charles Hope, and was devoted to cognitions, levita-
tions, the scales and a VCO test, all under somewhat different
conditions of control from those used in the routine seances.
Litzelmann controlled at Margery's left and Brown at her
right.13
'rhe first article cognized was ''A peculiar little pencil. It has
a metal clip on it." The second was, as Walter said, "A hotel
key." 'rhis rattled as it was picked up and Walter added, "I
don't see how you got that on the table without making any noise.''
The writer noted that, in neither case, was there the slightest
sound when these articles were placed on the table by Hope. Hope
asked Walter to read the number on the metal tag attached to
the key but the latter said that it was too difficult to read, but
if Hope would write on paper and present it on the following
evening he (Walter) would read it.
Dudley brought the luminous basket and doughnut from the
ball and put them on the table, resuming his place in the circle.
1s The sitters, in order: Margery, Carl Litzelmann, Lord Charles Hope, Mrs.
E. W. Brown, E. E. Dudley, Crandon, Mrs. Litzelmann, and Dr. E. W. Brown.
686 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
.A.t Walter's re.quest, Hope controUed all the hands in the vicinity
of the table; Margery's right hand being placed, with her left,
under control of Litzelmann, while Hope controlled these and
Litzelmann's left hand, as well as one of Brown's hands, thus exer-
cising practically complete control of the area in front of the cabinet
and of all but one hand (Brown's) in that area. Brown also
controlled the Marg·ery-Hope-Litzelmann link with his right hand.
Under these conditions, and with the remaining sitters testifying
to mutual control, the basket was levitated to the extreme top of
the cabinet, to the east wall of the cabinet, then to the west wall,
out in front and back to the east where it struck Brown on the
head; it then r€turned to the opposite side and struck Hope on
the head. The basket then moved well back into the rear of the
cabinet. Normal control was re-established and Walter asked for
the doughnut which, at his request, Hope had put in his pocket.
With this on the table (luminous side down) Crandon put a half-
dollar in the center of it. This was rapped on the table, the floor,
and again on the table, and, finally, placed under the fingers of
Litzelmann 's right hand; all under the ~ross-control described above.
Walter then announced that he would move the basket and
doughnut in different directions at the same time. The basket
rose and moved toward the east, while the doughnut moved up-
ward and back into the cabinet; the doughnut came forward and
was waved about well up in the air above the table (approximately
3 feet) at the same time that the baslmt was held some 30 inches
above the east end of the table. The handle of the basket was
hung over Hope's n€ck, and the doughnut placed in the basket.
Hope replaced the basket on the table, whence it was immediately
removed to the floor in front of the table, presumably by Walter.
The terminal holding the doughnut was clearly visible across the
luminous surface when the ring was picked up from the table.
The scales were placed on the table by Dudley, examined by
Hope in red light, loaded 1 :4 by him, shown unbalanced in white
flashlight, and engineered by Dudley in red light (through 360°)
while in kinetic balance. .A. subsequent exposure in white light
showed them still in balance.
The VCO was tested and controlled by Hope and demonstrated
as on August 24th. After the mouthpiece had been removed and
retested by Hope, the open end of the tube hung down as on May
3d. Suddenly, the floats were unbalanced to their maximum and
remained in that position while Walter talked and whistled. Then
they reversed their positions (indicating that suction had been
applied to the open end of the armored tube or pressure to the
open end of the glass tube) and Walter again talked. He then
told Litzelmann to place his hand over Margery 's mouth. The
latter carried his rig·ht hand and Margery's left to her mouth,
and Walter continued to talk. and whistled with the floats in their
uU:balanced position. He al. 'a talked and whistled while causing
the floats to oscillate to various positions in the tube, sometimes
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 687
unbalanced in one direction and again in the other. He continued
his experiment with the remark that he would ''try another 'per-
mubation' '' and beginning· with maximum unbalance in pressure,
he whistled while the floats, swung to the opposite position, were
held there for a few seconds, then swung back again; repeating
this several times; encbng the experiment with, "How do you like
that, Dudley~" The analysis of this experiment of Walter's is
most interesting: each time that the water column and its floats
()Scillated it swung through the full range that is to be expected
in a liquid pendulum of this type; i.e·., each swing was of slightly
less amplitude than the previous one; and each time that the
. pendulum came to rest it settled back only a very little, remained
at rest for a few seconds, and then repeated the operation in the
'Opposite phase. The exactitude with which this liquid pendulum
was controlled was very remarkable and indicated an accurate and
intelligent control of the orifice in the end of the armored tube
'Or a similar control of the open end of the glass tube, 5 feet above
the floor.
Just before Walter started this last experiment, and while he
was apparently applying pressure and suction alternately to the
free end of the flexible tube, he asked Hope to put his hand over
the open leg of the U-tube. Hope did so and reported a strong
suction as his palm closed the end of the tube. All of these opera-
tions were performed while Margery's mouth and hands were re-
ported under continuous control. As an additional variant, Walter
told Margery to repeat the alphabet while the floats were at maxi-
mum unbalance. She reached the letter '' G'' and they r emained
unbalanced. This test was made .while her hands were reported
as controlled.
These experiments were carried out in a sitting that lasted only
65 minutes.
The seance of the following evening involved post-seance
tests and levitations, the latter under somewhat less rigid con-
trol but, nevertheless, of considerable interest. The basket
with the three luminous bands on the handle was swung about
above the table .through a range of more than three feet, hori-
zontally, and about eighteen inches vertically, with great speed
and in such closed curves as to produce an effect which may
be described as imitating a swarm of crazy fireflies, if one can
imagine such a thing !
The sitting of October 6th was held in Crandon's absence
from the room, and was reported by J. H. Brown. Hope con-
trolled at the left and Dr. Brown at the right. Following the
presentation by Hope of two number slips, in darkness, which
688 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Walter promised to cognize and communicate to him at some
other ~ sitting with a different medium, there were telekinetic
phenomena as follows:
The xylophone was played while all hands in the circle were
reported as accounted for, and under similar control the basket,
with the doughnut suspended on the handle by \iValter, was
levitated and circled about above the joined hands of the group.
The sittings of October 1st, 4th and 11th were for the pur-
pose of giving Walter an opportunity to make phonograph rec-
ords of his voice, and were held in a local recording studio. The
results were very interesting and showed that Walter had a
remarkable grasp of the technique of recording the voice. The
writer's purpose in suggesting this experiment revolved about
the idea that more should be learned about the independent
voice in relation to microphonic reproduction and the possible
application of this knowledge to future experiments of a more
ambitious nature. It was obvious that Walter should be given
an opportunity to acquaint himself with the apparatus and
its limitations. This, he seems to have done very quickly, even
to the point of adjusting the microphone to the best position
to pick up the piano accompaniment to his whistling.
On October 12th, a group of the officials of the National
Spiritualists Association were present, together with several
other prominent members of the organization, and three un-
affiliated visitors.
Post-seance tests were carried out as previously described,
and, as the after-seance results showed, with complete success.
They included five numbers (chosen at random), and two pieces
torn from magazines. These were followed by levitations of
the basket (under bi-lateral double control; Crandon and Dudley
being the normal controllers) and doughnut; these, in turn,
were succeeded by rapping with a twenty-five cent piece. As
Walter finished with this operation he said, "Dudley, you
have the quarter.'' The latter had felt what he supposed was
a slight movement of the Psychic's little :finger on the palm
of his hand but no sensation such as the coin might be supposed
to produce; hence, denied its possession. Walter insisted that
Dudley had the coin and the latter, after attempting to locate
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 .AND 1929 689
it in his hand (without releasing control) was still unable to
feel it and denied its presence. Walter again asserted that
Dudley had it, and at this point the presence of the coin began
to be noticeable. It had been placed, very gently, over the
hypothenar eminence, and -vvas at approximately the tempera-
ture of the skin. Subsequent experiment showed that the
sensory nerves in this area are less responsive than almost
anywhere else on the palmar surface, but even so, difficulty
was experienced in placing such a coin on this spot without
producing a distinct and readily identifiable sensation. Walter
seemed to be enjoying his little joke.
The scales were engineered by Dudley after Wheeler had
loaded them 4 :1. The VCO test was controlled by Wheeler,
and was marked by clear, loud whistling and clear talking. Mrs.
Grover (a teacher of voice culture) stated that Walter's whis-
tling was of most unusual quality. -
The only other sittings held in 1929 that involved important
telekinetic phenomena were three held in England on Decem-
ber 6th, 7th and .Sth, 1929. They were held at the rooms of
the British S.P.R., 311 Tavistock Square, London.
The last sitting on December 8th was largely confined to
the making of thumbprints and will not be discussed here. The
record of the sitting of December 6th, however, is given in full
and that of the 7th, except the portion that relates to finger-
print experiments.
REPORT OF SITTING WITH "MARGERY"
(MRs. L. R. G. CRANDON)
Friday, 6th December, 1929
8 :30 to 11 P.M.
(Held at the offices of the Psychical Research Society,
Tavistock Square, London)
REPORT.
CONDITIONS OF CONTROL
(Lady BatTett dictating:) The medium was completely
stripped, and carefully examined with a strong electric torch-the
ears and nose, throat and larynx. She was then put into tights,
and over that she is wearing a dressing gown, every bit of which
690 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
has been carefully examined, and she has not been near any other
clothing, nor had an opportunity of touching anything else, because
I have had her hands in my sight the whole time until she came
in this (seance) room.
(D1·. Woolley d!ictating':) The medium's wrists and ankles are
attached to her chair by strips of surgeon's plaster; in each case
the strappings are marked with several blue pencil lines, the marks
being carried over the edges on to the skin. 'fhe ma1
;ks were made
by Dr. Brown and Dr. Woolley.
'fhe medium's body is attached to the chair at the shoulders
in such a way as to prevent her from leaning forward for more
than a few inches.
When the lig·ht is unscrewed, it is not possible that any white
light can be switched on by mistake or by intention.
THE CffiCLE CONSISTS OF :
(Left) Dr. F. C. S. Schiller; Dr. J. V. Woolley; Dr. Wm.
Brown, M..A., M.D.; Mrs. Hewat McKenzie; Miss Mercy Philli-
more; Mr. Stanley de Erath, M.I.C.E.; Miss Hyde; Lady Barrett;
Capt. E. M. Bennett, M.P.; Dr. L. R. G. Crandon; Lord Charles
Hope ; The Medium, ''Margery.''
(Behind the ci1·cle, on the right) Mr. W. H. Salter; Major C. H.
Mowbray.
(01~tside the circle;) Mrs. Brackenbury (to attend gramophone) ;
Mrs. H . .A. Hankey (recorder).
THE SEANCE (recorded at Dr. Crandon's dictation) :
Walter's voice came within a few minutes. He was introduced
to everybody, and whistled and talked. Gave a small verse con-
cerning Lord Hope, and other members of the circle. (.Attached.)
.An empty basket was passed round the circle from left to
right, and anyone who chose, put in some object. Everyone had
the opportunity to do that, except Dr. Crandon, for obvious reasons.
In other words, the control was so maintained that he could not
put anything in or take anything out.
The table can apparently be moved a few inches on the floor.
WaUer: ''That was me.''
Several movements of the table.
Sound as of crinkling paper was heard in cabinet.
Waltm·: "We did not get so much out of this collection; not
so much
''Did anyone put in some matches ~' '
Lon], Cha1·Zes Hope: "I did."
Walte1·: "They are on the floor behind you."
''Somebody put in a pencil ~ ''
Miss Hyde: "I did."
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 691
W alte1': "It's over in the corner. H ere's a box of cigarettes."
Mrs. McKenzie: "That's mine, Walter."
Walter·: "Do you want me to tell you how many cigarettes
are in it ~ ''
Mr·s. McKenzie: "Yes, if you are able."
Walte1•: "Do you know~"
Mr·s. McKernzie;: "I would know to one."
W alte1·: ''I think there are three.''
lJI!?·s. McKenzie: "I think you are wrong."
vValter": ''One-two-three-four then.''
Mrs. McKenzie: "No; someone must have been smoking them,
then.' ' ·
Walter· : ''Four; ther€ are four.''
Mr·s. McKenzie: '' Oh, I believe four is right; I think there
were seven originally.''
(They are heard to fall on the table.)
Walter : '' H er€ 's another pencil.''
Mr·. de Brath: "I put a pencil in."
Walter : "It is at your feet, Major Mowbray."
Walter: "Here 's a key."
Dr. Woolley: ''I put in a key.''
(A metal thing was heard to fall on the :floor.)
Walter: "Near Dr. Schiller."
"Her€ 's a bit o·f money. I should say, is it a sixpence 1"
(Dr. Br·own and Captain B ennett both say they put in sixpence.)
Walter : "I have them both. You can put them in the Church
collection. H ere's another key.''
(It can be heard to be rapped on the table, and fall on the floor.)
Walter: "Here's a ring."
Miss Phillinwr·e: "Yes, I put in a ring. Don't you lose it."
Walter: "I have put the ring away very carefully. I have
put it in the medium's pocket. That's all right, isn't it ? "
Walte1·: "Dr. Schiller, count the cigarettes."
Dr·. Schiller: "One-two-three-four. Quite right."
Dr. Woolley asked the circle how much light anyone could see.
Those on the medium's right could see the faint refi€ction of the
red light by which the stenographer writes. It is generally agreed
that one could not recognize anything by that light. (The faint
r€d light is :fixed under the paper upon which the steiwgrapher
writes.)
The table is heard to move. Walter resumes his whistling.
Walter calls for the luminous ring called the ''doughnut,'' for
the luminous basket and for the xylophone. (Lord Charles Hope
went out this afternoon and bought a toy xylophone.) Lord
Charles Hop€ has now put the xylophone on the table and the ham-
mers beside it.
692 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Walte1·: "Now let's have a little excitement."
The xylophone hammers rolled off the table on to the floor,
to Walter's disgust. Now he is trying to tell Hope where to find
them.
At Walter's suggestion the red light is put on, and the ham-
mers are found and put on the table again. Major Mowbray says
the hammers were under the middle of the table, which is precisely
where Walter said one of them was.
One note of the xylophone is heard.
Walter is heard playing on the xylophone in good time, as if
by the hammers, with appropriate aria which he whistled. This
playing lasts perhaps 40 to 50 seconds, and then a hammer is
thrown on the head of Dr. Crandon, on the right, after which the
other hammer is heard upon the xylophone.
W altm·: "It is a pity; you wouldn't have recognized the young
fellow." (This refers to John Richardson.)
There is a sound as of a coin being struck on the table, and
Walter asks if there is a Scotchman in the group~
He hits the xylophone, and makes a coin-like noise at the same
time, and asks which sounds the best to a Scotchman~ He wants
to lmow in case of an emergency.
Walte1·: "How are you feeling, Hope ~ I am going to scare
you now.''
Sound of something falling on the floor, as if the xylophone is
fallen.
Waltm·: "Take it up and see what it is. It is the xylophone
on the floor with some money."
''And it was there left.' '
Walter: "Yes, it is to the left of Hope and right of Schiller."
Walte1•: "We are all here, thank goodness." (Referring to
his crowd of helpers.)
Walter suggested the luminous dough-nut was put on the table,
and it was placed bright side down.
Dr. Woolley asks where the "dough-nut" is on the table, and
Dr. Schiller replies, "Towards the medium's left."
Lord Charles Hope says that the "dough-nut" is moving about
on the table.
Mrs. Brackenbury takes the dough-nut out of the room to make
it a little brighter, and enters the room again with some of the
luminous paint on her hands and frock.
Walter': "In other words, the lady's lit up."
The dough-nut having· been brought in too bright, the S.P.R.
banjo and tambourine are put on the table, with the luminous
side face down. Shortly after, the little cymbals are heard to
strike. The tambourine is seen moving about on the top of the
table. A sound is heard.
W alte1·: "Is that not like a freak ( ?) thing?"
/
y
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 AND 1929 693
Half the circle see the tambourine rise off the table surface into
a vertical position-Captain Bennett estimates about a foot up.14
Walter says his medium is slipping towards the edge of the
chair, the cushion pushing her out, whereupon, under instructions
from Walter, Mrs. Brackenbury removes the cushion..
Mrs. Brackenbury says that something touched her arm.15
The tambourine is vertical again.
The tambourine is now in the air moving back and forth, and
accompanied by a whistle. It is now moving three or four feet
in several directions, Walter whistling·, thus showing that the tam-
bourine could not be being moved by anything in the medium's
mouth.
Walter: ''What are those other things over there 1''
D1·. Woolley: "Bell and zither."
Dr. Woolley is directed by Walter to put the bell on the table.
He puts it on farthest edge of table neareRt to Dr. Schiller, with
the edge of the bell exactly on the rim of the table.
Major Mowbray says he sees something light between him and
the bell. Walter asks how many people can see the bell~ Virtually
everyone can see it on a low table.
Walter requests that the table be pulled away from him a little,
but then he says, no, he will do it himself. And it was so, done.
The bell rings violently and falls to the floor.
Walter now calls for the S.P.R. zither, which is put on the
table at his request. It has three luminous stripes on it. Dr.
Woolley describes where he has placed it-with the lon.g edge coin-
ciding with the far edge of the table.
Walter says the zither looks like a battleship.
Walter, now whistling, is accompanying his whistling with play-
ing on the zither.
Three clear notes are struck ori the zither.
The xylophone is put on the table to- right of the medium. We
now hear notes being struck on both the zither and the xylophone
m imitation of a jazz band.
This continues like a crazy German band for about 40 seconds.
Waltm·: "This is so heavy to hold, but I am going to do it
Woolley, if it takes a leg."
Twice a noise is heard as if the zither has fallen on the table
14 The nature and amplitude of the phenomena, us well as the accuracy of t!Je
actions described, may profitably be checked against the restrictions of the mechanical
control and the nature of the search of the medium and her clothing, in the light of
the statements of the reporters. This note applies with equal force at othe1· points.
15 Which arm, and on what part of the arm~ Where was the arm in relation
to the Psychic at the time the touch was felt? What was the nature of the touch f
It is not apparent that Mrs. Brackenbury reported in detail at the time, nor that she
amplified this interesting statement in the S.P.R. Proceedings, Part 117, Vol.
XXXIX.
694 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
from above. Dr. Schiller and Hope both report feeling a breeze-
at the same time.
The luminous dough-nut by Walter's request is placed on the·
table, light side down. .
Walter asks, "Can anyone see the dough-nuU" Sev€ral can:
see the faint edge.
Walter: ''The dough-nut's under my hand just now.
The dough-nut is now moving back and forth about two feet,.
and is apparently able to be seen by everyone.
Walter was talking while this levitation was going on.
W alte1·: ''I will do something rather interesting.''
The dough-nut is now flashed down to the level of the floor.
Everybody says he can see it, and now it goes up to the level of
the table. It is higher than the table. It is no·w coming clown
to the floor again, and now it comes back and forth, moving about
like a crazy fire-fly; at the same time Walter whistles. He now
repeats this sam€ manoeuvre.
Walter: ''Do you like it, Hope~''
Dr. Woolley says he sees dough-nut still in the air and on the
medium's right. Now it is over on the medium's left, down to
the floor behind Dr. Schiller, wher€ all those in that vicinity can
see it. Dr. Woolley now says be sees it behind Dr. Schiller, in
the air. Major Mowbray also sees it.
The doughnut is now on the table.
The tambourine on the floo-r at the medium's right is now heard
to be played.
Walter now instructs Lord Hope to get on the floor and hold
the medium's feet, in addition to- the strapping. While this is
being done, Captain Bennett holds Dr. Crandon's two hands and
two knees.
At the same time the tambourine can be heard to be played,
though the strict conditions of control previously described are
observed. All this time the tambourine is on the floor behind the
medium. Lord Hope confirms this position, that Walter has
described.
WaUer: '"rhat 's enough for one night."
Walter throws something and hits Dr. Crandon on the right
ear. It is apparently the xylophone hammer. Lord Hope felt it
bounce off Dr. Crandon's left shoulder on to hi rio·ht shoulder.
Walter now says that he must go, and asks that people should
not use the room very much unless it is ab:olutely necessary. Dr.
Woolley says he will keep it locked.
COMMENTS
D1·. Woolley says: The red light was turned up, and the me-
dium's wrists and ankles examined by electric torch. All the strap-
ping and knots and' marks were found intact, as they were at the
beginning.
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 .AND 1929 695
M1·. Salle?' : Mr. Salter having heard what Dr. Woolley has
dictated, quite concurs.
D1·. Schille?•: I also agree with what has been said, that the
control is intact.
D1·. Williarn Brown : I confirm the description of the state
of control before and after the seance, as given by Dr. Woolley
and Mr. Salter.
Captain E. M. Bennett, M.P.: I examined the fastening of the
feet, hands, etc., before and after the seance, and am convinced
that they were preserved intact .throughout.
(Sig·ned) F. C. S. ScHILLER
L. R. G. CRANDON
BARBARA McKENZIE
M. MoWBRAy
FLORENCE E. BARRETT
MERCY PHILLIMORE
CHARLES M. HOPE
WILLIAM BROWN
For appending to original Report.
(Signed) STANLEY DE ERATH
MARGARET J . .A. HYDE
The verse concerning Lord Charles Hope follows :
There was a young fellow called Hope
Who never took time off to mope.
He brought me a basket, though I didn't ask it,
.And now he will fill it, I hope.
NOTES OF SITTING
.At 31 Tavistock Square, London, W .C., · on Saturday, 7th
December, 1929.
Medium, Mrs. Crandon.
Date, 7th December, 1929.
Time, 9 :15 till 11 :10 P.M.
Place, 31 Tavistock Square.
Notes, Miss W. .A. Shafto.
9 :15 Circle joined hands.
Order of sitters to left of medium-Dr. Schiller, Dr. Brown,
Mrs. Brown, Mrs. de Crespigny, Mrs. .Ashton Jonson, Mr. .Ashton
Janson, Mr. Harry Price, Miss Phillimore, Lady Barrett, Captain
Bennett, Lord Charles Hope, Dr. Crandon. On the couch, Dr.
Woolley controlling the shoulders and arms of Dr. Crandon, beside
Dr. Woolley on his right, Major Mowbray.
Mrs. Brackenbury attending the victrola.
Trance has come on.
walter came through shortly with greetings for all the new
comers and most of the old visitors. He says he isn't going to
give us anything tonight-we hope there is a twinkle in his eye.
Lady Barrett, will you testify by your word, as to the examina- .
tion tonight~
696 l\1.A.RGERY l\1EDIUl\1SHIP
Yes, I examined the medium thoroughly, as I did last night
and found everything quite right about her.
The control was precisely as last night, the surgeon's plaster
holding the feet and ankles to the chair as before, and the pencil
markings were made by Dr. Woolley and Mr. Price.
Walter seemed to relent a little later and he then asked for
the golden basket provided by Hope which was handed to Dr.
Schiller and passed round. Each person who wanted to put in
some personal object for the purpose of identification.
The table was heard to move on the floor.
Walter says : "Here is a cigarette case that seems to be as full
as it can be''; whereupon it fell apparently on the table and then
on the floor.
Mr. .Ashton Jonson said he put in a cigarette case which seemed
to be quite full.
Walter says: "We seem to have a number of them."
Walter, speaking, said: "This is like a subjective medium. Now,
who would have a cigarette case which had about four cigarettes
in it~"
Miss Phillimore said it might be hers, whereupon it hit the
table and opened and shut.
Walter says: ''This is very nice; someone put in a cigarette
holder for me.''
Captain Bennett admitted he had done so, whereupon something
was heard to hit the floor.
Walter says : ''We are having a nice time are we not, Woolley 1
Here is a comb.''
Mrs. William Brown said, "I put in a comb," whereupon some-
thing was heard to hit the floor.
Here is an empty leather case.
1\IJ:r. Price says, ''Mine.''
Walter adds : ''I guess he took something out of it.''
l\1r. Price, ''Correct.''
Walter· says : "Pencil."
Dr. Woolley says, "Yes."
Walter says : ''There it is, Woolley !'' and something hit the
floor.
Walter says: "I don't know whether this is a thumb tack; it is a
curious thing. It is like a nail with a big head.''
Hope says: ''I did that; I killed Cock Robin.''
Walter says, "It isn't a nail, is it, Hope~"
Hope says, "Not quite." Walter feels for a time to see what
it was, and said it might be damned, and threw it at Hope. Walter
apologizes for the "damn" and adds two damns.
Walter says: ''Here is a curious pencil, a short pencil.''
Dr. Woolley says, "That would apply to my pencil," where-
upon Dr. Brown says, ''I put in a pencil.''
Walter speaking : ''Here is a ring.''
TELEKINESIS IN 1928 .AND 1929 697
Mrs. .Ashton Jonson says: "It is mine," whereupon Walter
replies, ''I will put in medium's pocket.''
Here is a brooch.
Mrs. de Crespigney says: ''It is mine,'' whereupon Walter adds,
"What shall I do with that~" whereupon a sound was heard as if
it twanged.
"Here is a key," and metal was heard to hit upon metal. Lady
Barrett claimed the key as hers. .
"I can make as much noise as that stenographer, listen" : where-
upon basket was hea1;d to twang on the table.
"Here is a paper." .A paper was heard crackling loudly. Walter
speaking: "It is an env·elope, not a piece of paper." Loud crack-
lings heard again.
"Music for a little while," Walter says. He says: "What is
this? .An envelope with nails in it or something, an envelope
with beads in it or something."
Major Mowbray says: "It is mine."
Walter says : "It is on the table. "
Dr. Woolley says, to Walter, "Is that the lot ~ " I)r. Woolley
dictates : "From the time basket was on table Dr. Woolley had con-
tact with Dr. Crandon's wrist with his own hand.''
Major Mowbray: "When Walter said the envelope contained
nails, it is right. They feel exactly like nails because they are
mummy beads from Luxor, and they are exactly like nails.''
Walter says that for these cognitions he works about a foot from
the medium and the less he has to go from the medium the better.
"It is my hand", he says, every time it is his hand.
Brilliant repartee between Hope and Walter.
(Here follows record as to finger-print experiments which is
omitted.)
Walter orders a dim red light to let the medium out of her
somnambulance.
Time 11 :10 P.M.
Dr. Woolley says that when the medium came out of trance
the adhesive tape and rope were examined and found to be intact,
except that the tape on the right ankle appeared to have moved
round about one-eighth of an inC'h from its original position.
Lady Barrett examined the medium after the sitting and found
everything as before.
(Signed) F. C. S. ScHILLER
L. R. G. CRANDON
ETHEL .AsHTON JoNsoN
C. C. .AsHTON JoNsoN
M. MowBRAY
RosE CH. DE CRESPIGNY
FLORENCE E. BARRETT
MERCY PHILLIMORE
WILLIAM BROWN
CHARLES M. HOPE
698 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Dr. Woolley and Mrs. Brackenbury attended all three sittings
at London. They did not sign the notes and presumably the.reason
is the one that Woolley gave to Crandon and which is largely to
the effect that he did not approve of notes dictated during the
course of a sitting but that notes should be prepared later. As a
matter of fact ;Dr. Woolley continued to make notes for a long
period thereafter. He, however, did sign the following statement.
The two ~orrections of the notes of the December 7th sitting can
readily be located, although the paging above is different.
'' 31, Tavistock Sqr.
London, W. C. 1.
I have read through the typed notes of the Margery sittings
held here on Dec. 6, 7 and 8, 1929, and am of the opinion that,
subject to the following corrections, they are an accurate report
of what was dictated by me and others to the note taker at those
sittings.
7th Dec. p. 1. l, 12, for 'medium' read Dr. Crandon.
p. 5. l, 6, for 'Walter' read Dr. Crandon.
8th Dec. p. 3. l, 21, for 'right' read 'left.'
p. 4. l, 14, for 'divided' read 'provided.'
p. 6. l, 9, for 'and' read 'until' and
l, 11, for 'strap' read 'strapping.'
(Signed) V. J. WooLLEY.
CHAPTER LV
Photographic Experiments in 1927-8
Following the photographic work of 192·5 1
no extensive pro-
gram of this sort was attempted until late in 1927, although
photographs were made on special occasions, such as that of
July 28, 1927.2
The development of the visible teleplasmic
cylinder during the seance of October 8th,3
and \J..T
alter's state-
ment that this could be photographed through a quartz lens
but might not record through a glass lens \V
aS taken as an
indication that he had perfected a certain degree of control
over these structures.
Apparently Vvalter had produced the above phenomenon as
a means of stimulating interest in a new photographic program,
since he said, at the beginning of the seance of October 12th,
that he was ready to present a series of phenomena in which
the development of the psychic cylinder would be shown from
the vapor form up to the point .where it v
vould be connected
to the medium by a long, twisted (corkscrew-like) rod, and
again stated that some of these structures would record only
through the quartz lens.
F r om the very beginning of the photographic and observa-
tional records of the teleplasmic structures it seems apparent
that \Valter was endeavoring to demonstrate their genesis, evo-
lution, and applications ; e.g., teleplasm was shown in connection
with the S-A bell-box,4
and a hint of it was seen in the experi-
ments with Butler's glass bell-box.'; Thread-like structures were
shown as supports for objects and as means of actuating de-
vices ;Gthe teleplasmic voice mechanism was seen in red light
and was photographed ;7
luminous teleplasm seen in the dark
1 See Chapters II, XV, XVI ::me
l XXIV; v. l .
2 See page 653.
s See page 663.
4 See photographs opposite pp. 47G and 480, M.i\1.
5 See pages 589- 92.
o See Chapter LII.
1 See P lates 16, 17, 18 and 19 ; v. 1.
699
700 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
was immediately displayed in the same form and location in red
light 8
and various psychic structures were seen to change form
while silhouetted against a luminous background.9
In the following records it will be seen that, while his an-
nounced goal was not reached, a considerable amount of in-
teresting evidence was obtained; also, that success in this :field,
even when working with so expert a "control" as Walter,
depends very largely upon continuity of effort.
Since the large charges of :flash powder used in previous
experiments caused unpleasant reactions in the Psychic, Kunz
proposed to use a special method of developing plates which
would permit of using very small amounts of powder without
sacrificing essential details in the pictures. In preparation for
the seance of October 12th three cameras were set up: two (a
quartz lens, and a glass-lensed stereo) facing the cabinet, and
a third camera with quartz lens at about 90° from the others.
The following abstracts are from Dudley's records of these
sittings, unless otherwise noted:
0C'l'OBER 12, 1927.1° The scales were on the table, loaded 1 :4,11
and after some conversation Walter gave Kunz three seconds to
get ready for the first exposure, which was made with 1/s teaspoon-
ful of powder. Mn Litzelmann and Fife 1·eported seeing a light-
co.Zm·ed mass in tloe east pan. As soon as the plateholders had
been changed Walter asked for a second flash; in the meantime
the scale pans could be heard striking the base alternately. The
flash-g·un failed on several trials and another was used, which
worked at the second attempt. Walter said that was enough for
the present. Three plates.. were exposed the first time and two
(those facing the cabinet) during the second flash.
After some experiments with the sistrum, the seance closed
at 10 :25 P.M., having continued since 9 :10,.
The picture, shown as Plate 46, is from one-half of the stereo-
scopic negative, and shows the west pan grounded, while in
the east pan there is a glossy-white rod-like mass which appears
s Referred to in connection with sitting of May 30, 1926; p. 473.
u To which there are various references in connection with hand-1il{e processes.
10 The sitters in order: Margery, Dr. Richardson, C. Ekland, F. Adler,
C. Litzelmann, E. E. Dudley, Mrs. Litzelmann, J . W. Fife, Mrs. Richardson,
Dr. Crandon.
11 Throughout the chapter the first number of the loading indicates the east
pan of the scales, therefore the one at Margery's right.
PLATE 46. EXPOSURE A, OF OCTOBER 12, 1927, ONE HALF OF NEGA'l'IVE MADE THROUGH
GLASS-LENSED S'l'EREOSCOPIC CAMERA AF'l'ER THE FLASH-GUN HAD FAILED •.ro WORK
SEVERAL TIMES. WHITE ROD-LmE MASS COLLAPSED IN EAS'r PAN.
PLATE 47. EXPOSURE B, OF 0C'l'OBER 12, 1927, MADE THROUGH QUAR'l'Z J.ENS, S II UW-
ING HOLLOW MASS IN EAS'l' PAN WHICH, WHEN MAGNIFIED, LOOKS LIKE A MINIA-
TURE ELEPIIANT 'S FOO'l'.
PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPERIMENTS IN 1927-8 701
to have collapsed into the pan wh~re it coiled and re-coiled on
itself. A study of an enlarged photograph indicates that this
·structure was approximately 14 inch in diameter. The above
picture was made through a glass lens, but the simultaneously
exposed plates in the quartz-lensed cameras add nothing to our
knowledge of this mass. The collapsed appearance of the
mass may be directly related to the failure of the flash-gun,
as noted in Walter's comment at the next seance.
Plate 47 is from the negative made through the quartz lens
facing the cabinet, and shows a curious hollow mass in the east
pan, which, enlarged, bears a marked resemblance to a miniature
elephant's foot. This is reminiscent of one of Walter's com-
ments (at the seance of September 27, 19·27) anent the appear-
ance of one of his thumb prints, shown on the screen at the
Paris Congress, that it "looked like an elephant's hoof." The
plates used in the stereoscopic camera were not as rapid as
they were supposed to be, and in this instance the negative
lacks detail.
The next seance of this series was held on the 14th, and
again two exposures were made as above, except that the red
light was turned on before the second flashlight. As in the
first sitting the flash-guns did not work well, and Walter said
that since he ducked when he heard the :first click we might
not get anything (supernormal) on the plates. In the first
picture the loading was 1:3 with the east pan grounded, and
in the second the west or heavy pan was grounded, but no tele-
plasmic structures were recorded.
These frequent and irritating failures of the ignition ap-
paratus stimulated some intensive experimental work leading
to the development of a more reliable igniter. The writer made
a hot-wire device in which a piece of "nichrome" wire was
held in the bottom of a shallow asbestos trough in which the
powder was placed, ignition being accomplished by closing the
circuit to six dry cells in series-multiple.
Preparations were made for photographs on the 17th, but
Walter said that he was collecting energy and refused to attempt
any pictures, adding that he wanted another sitting on Wednes-
702 MARGERY lVIEDIUMSHIP
day, with the same group. As the seance neared its close he
said, "Dudley, will you do something for me ~ " (D. "Yes.")
''After the others have left, light the candle, put it on the table
and leave it for ten minutes. No, don't put it on the table;
put it in Sary's chair. Leave the red light burning." 13
Cran-
don: "Shall I turn it out in the morning ~ " ·walter: "No, I'll
take care of it." (The light was turned out supernormally some
time during the nig·ht, according to Crandon.)
Prior to the sitting of the 19th, three flashlight photographs
were taken in the book room, with Mrs. Stinson (age seventy-
nine) and her sister, Mrs. Mary Gray (age eighty-nine), seated
on the sofa in the corner in front of a casket of flowers, Mar-
gery being seated nearby. There was no light in the room
for about five minutes after the camera (quartz lens) had been
focussed, then ·walter's voice, apparently coming from behind
the sofa, said, ''Shoot.'' Tvvo pictures were taken under these
conditions, and a third with one of the mantei lights turned on,
after which the party (with the exception of Mrs. Stinson and
Mrs. Gray) proceeded to the seance room.
'l'lJe seance began at 9 :05 P.M., Margery going into trance
promptly.l1
Walter said that he had tried to show himself in
the pictures just taken, and if we could see him at all it would
be in the basket of roses15 above and behind the heads of his mother
and his aunt.
'l'he same arrangement of cameras was used as before, and
the same scales, loaded 1 :4. 'l'he electric igniter (used in the
pre-seance experiments) was used again, the charge of flash powder
now reduced to the point where those who were not actually facing
the flash could keep their eyes open without discomfort. Three
exposures were made, the red light being turned on before each
of them, but none of the sitters saw any supernormal structures
1a Earlier reco1·ds of flashlight photography show that Walter often requested
that red light be left burning, but this seems to be :fi.Tst time that he asked for a
candle light in addition.
14 The sitters, in order: Margery, Richardson, Litzelmann, Dudley, Mrs. Rich-
ardson, and Grandon. Outside, in same ordel': Judge Gray, Kunz, Mrs. Mink,
Mrs. Gray.
15 TheTe are many references in spiritistic literature to the appearance of faces
or forms in relation to flowers or plants. Doubtless many of these were illusory;
nevertheless, the protoplasm of organic matter may furnish some of the energy
needed in such manifestations.
~.....
.PLA'l'E 48. EXPOSURE B, OF 0 0 '1'0BER 19, 1927, MADE 'l'UROUGH A GLASS LENS, SHOWING 'l'RANSLUOEN'l' CYLINDER EMBEDDED IN
WHI'l'E MASS IN EAST PAN, AND CAPPED BY A SIMILAR. MASS. TWO OTHER MASSES ARE A'l'TACHED TO 'l'HE EAS'l' SUSPENDER;
WHILE A SMALLER ONE IS SEEN ON THE ANGULAR PART OF THE OTHER. SUSPENDER. SIMULTANEOUS QUARTZ LENS PIOTUR.ES
CONFIR.M THE PR.ESENOE AND SIZE OF THESE S'l'RUOTUR.ES.
PLA'l'E 49. EXPOSURE C, m' 0C'l'OBER l91'H, ALSO ~Lo\.DE THROUGH A GLASS LENS. THE TRANSLUCENT CYLINDER LEANS '1'0 THE WEST,
ITS CAP A'l'l'ACHED 1'0 THE SUSPENDER, AND SEVERAL Sl\11\,LLER MASSES STRUNG ALONG THE SUSPENDER RODS.
PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPERIMENTS IN 1927-8 703
in the scale pans, although Walter asked the question after each
:flash-light. Just before he asked for the third flash he said, "'l'be
place is just dripping with the Judge's (Judge Gray) ectoplasm.
I milked him last night." ('l'he latter said, earlier in the evening,
that never in his life had he felt so tired as he did after the
sitting of the previous evening.) 16 F·ollowing the third exposure
vValter announced ''that ·was a d-- good picture,'' and asked
if anyone had seen anything in the scale pans. Upon being assured
that no one had he added, ''You shouldn't have.''
The sitting closed at 9 :45 P.M. with Walter's request that we
leave the red light on again.
The picture reproduced herewith (Piate 48) is the second
taken this evening, and shows a white mass in the east pan,
out of which projects a translucent cylinder which is capped
with another white, opaque mass of the same sort. The camera
located at the side of the cabinet proves that this cylinder leans
slightly forward. The heavy pan is grounded in each case.
The third and last picture discloses this same structure,
now ending in a conical cap and leaning toward the west
suspender rod, to which it.is attached; other masses of white
material are also attached to this rod. (See Plate 49.)
The first of the three pictures showed a mass in the east
pan but as the negative is not clear this is not reproduced.
If these structures had been as visible to the normal eye
as was that of October 8th, it would seem as though they
should have been seen during the red-light interval or when
the flashlight occurred, since the charges of flash powder were
small enough to permit of such observations; however, nothing
was seen by the sitters; therefore it is reasonable to assume
that the masses did not reflect light within the visible range.
(Glass lenses ·will record a limited range of vibrations in the
ultra-violet.)
\iVhile the new igniter gave much better results than the
flash-guns previously used, it had an irregular time lag due to
a non-unHorm contact of the powder with the hot wire, so it
1o Walter often says that he has ''milked'' some sitter of his or her energy
(but does not say so in their presence, as a rule), and not infrequently such sitters
have said that they felt very tired after a sitting without, apparently, suspecting
the alleged cause.
704 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
was reconstructed before the next seance and thereafter worked
perfectlyY
Following a general seance on the 24th, another photographic
seance was held on October 2'8th/8
at which this new igniter
was used.
The seance began at 9 :15 P.M., Margery going into trance
promptly. The apparatus was arranged as before. The phono-
graph slowed down and Walter ordered someone to "get to --
out of that!'' The speed increased a bit, then decreased again,
bringing another explosive remark from Walter, and. another in-
crease in speed. After this had happened three times one of the sit-
ters said:· "Do you know, it seems to me that the phonograph has
slowed down considerably.'' Walter: '' Ha, Ha, where have you
been for the last five minutes? Do you think you will come to
this seance 1 That's all we have been tall{ing about for some time.
You'd better cable for your mind'' !
When Walter was complimented on the last pictures he replied
that they were merely experiments, and he hadn't got v;rell started;
then, a few moments later, drew our attention to a luminous mass
on the scales, saying, "You are not on to your jobs. That's Mr.
Harrison.19 He's a fine man, a great man; I helped myself to
him. I have been very busy this last week. You know, distance
doesn't make any difference to this stuff.'' After some further
comments he suddenly told Kunz to shoot as soon as the red light
was turned on, then, a moment later, told Crandon to ·turn it on.
The flash went off less than half a second after the light came on,
and Walter spoke immediately afterwards, saying, '' 'l'hat was
pretty quick. I don't know whether I got out of the way. Maybe
you caught me that time.'' The Psychic showed no reaction to
the flash, and Walter seemed able to talk more quickly following
the use of these reduced charges of powder. No one had seen
any supernormal structures in the scale pan during the brief flash.
Before the next experiment the scale pans could be heard
striking the base alternately, and finally Walter said, "Turn on
the red light and shoot in two seconds." The east (light) pan
17 The writer arranged fixed and movable electrodes in the bottom of a11
asbestos trough, and connected these to the 110-volt lighting circuit through a
series resistance which limited the current to approximately 2% amperes. Numerous
tests with small charges of powder proved that these would always ignite com-
pletely and almost instantly when the lever was pulled down and released.
1s The sitters were: Margery, Richardson, Litzelmann, Mrs. Litzelmann,
Dudley, Mrs. Richardson and Crandon. Outside, in same order: Mr. G. Bell,
Mr. Sawin, K unz and F. B. Bond.
10 Present at the seance of the 24th. Walter added that be got a great deal
of energy from a young lady who had been present. 'rhe latter was exceedingly
fatigued after the seance. ·
PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPERIMENTS IN 1927-8 705
was seen to be slightly lower than the other pan but nothing
supernormal was seen before or during the flash. Crandon stated
that the scales were loaded 1 :4, but Walter corrected him: ''I took
out the checker in the east pan, that made it a 0 :4 load.'' (Con-
firmed in the photographs.) Kunz had further trouble with one
of his plateholders, then found that the locking pin had been turned,
although he was careful to leave them free during experiments.
Walter seemed to be enjoying the situation hugely; said he: "I am
going to put a bee in Kunz 's bonnet; make him absolutely crazy;
I am going to get his goat.'' He was working on the scales at
the time, a:q.d just then the east suspender frame fell to the floor
with a loud clatter, but the pan did not fall. Dudley picked up
the frame and was fitting it in place on the beam, using both
bands, when Walter said·, "Dudley, here's the pan," and placed
the edge of it under the former's left thumb as accurately as
though it had been done by someone who could see perfectly.
When asked where it had been be replied, ''I held on to it when
the frame fell.'' With the scales again in commission he asked
Ktmz to pass the plateholder that would not open to Richardson,
and have the locked side uppermost; then ·asked the latter to hold
it horizontally. Richardson reported a pressure on top of the
holder, at the same time describing a column of light (seen by
the other sitters ) as coming down on the holder. A few moments
later Walter asked for red light and the flash two seconds later.
In the red-light period the scales were unbalanced toward the
east or light pan but no structures were seen in the pan, as the
sitters agreed, while Walter stated that they should not have
seen anything. He refused to allow any more pictures this evening.
A luminous column moved about in front of the cabinet, near
the scales, and while not very bright was exceedingly active. At
times it diminished in height until it was only a small mass on
the scale pan (apparently), then developed into a column about
three feet high and three inches in diameter. When this disap-
peared Walter asked for the luminous doughnut and levitated it
freely and over a wide range above the table.
None of the photographs of this evening show any super-
normal structures in or about the scale pans. The :first picture
shows the pans loaded 1 :4, and the heavy pan grounded. In
the second, the single weight has been removed from the east
pan, and both suspenders have been unhooked from the beam,
the pans standing free on the base, while the last exposure
discloses the same loading, the pans again suspended on the
beam (see record), and the empty pan grounded. In this pic-
.
706 MARGERY 1\IEDIUl\IISHIP
hue, Richardson is shown holding the plate holder in his left
hand.20
Two of the plates which were not normally exposed
carry extras in the form of a silhouette resembling the
head of a man wearing· a short beard. The same shadow is
found in the center of one of the negatives exposed behind a
quartz lens; whiie one of the stereoscopic negatives had been
fogged over slightly more than one-half its length, as though
the slide had been drawn that far. Kunz had brought these
plates on the 24th but they were not used, so he left them in
the dark room on the next fioor; consequently these curious
shadow-graphs lack evidential value. This was the first and
last time that he left any plates in the house or out of his control,
except as noted in the record.
Preparations were made for photographs on November 12th,
but \iValter said that none would be taken. On the 21st, how-
ever, the scales were again in use and the cameras set up. Kunz
put two plate holders on the table, in case vValter wished to
experiment with them.
The sitting began at 9:15 P .M .,21 and Walter came through
after a slight delay, Margery being in trance as usual. 'l'he
first part of the sitting was given over to conversation, mostly
by Walter; finally he said, "Kunz, there is no hurry but how
soon will you be ready to shoot ~ '' Kunz: ''I shall be ready in
about two minutes after you give the word." Walter : "Dudley,
I 'Want you to get up when the red light goes on and pick up
the scales, turn round with your back to the Psychic,22 and when
I give the word Kunz will :hoot." Dudley: "But that will bring
the scales too far forward; they will be out of focus.'' Walter :
"Well, wait a minute, there is no hurry. You get up and stand
behind the table, in front of the Psychic, and pick them up. All
right now, get up." As he said this, the red light (mantel) was
turned on by Crandon, and Margery, chair and all, were moved
back from the table as though she had pushed herself backward
automatically. Dudley passed in front of Richardson and picked
up the scales on their platform, at Walter's suggestion, placing
the plateholders in Margery's lap. He noted that the latter's
20 When this plate was developed it bore a shadowgraph like that described
below, but the remail1der of the plate was not fogged.
21 1'l1e sitters were: Ma1·gery, Richardson, Dudley, Miss Whipple, Mr. Welsh,
Mrs. Richardson and Crandon. Outside: Kunz.
22 It seems to have been Walter's mtention to get the scales as far away from
Margery as possible.
PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPERIMENTS IN 1927-8 707
hands were controlled by Richardson and Crandon, but as he
lifted the scales, which were balancing kinetically with a 1 :4 load,
he heard Walter's voice as though just behind his right shoulder,
saying, "I shall be right behind you Dudley," and the remark
was emphasized by three or four sharp raps between the shoulder
blades, as though with the tips of the fingers. Walter gave the
order to "shoot"; the exposure wa. made but no o1te saw any S1llJe1'-
no1·1nal stn~cttu·es in connection W'ith the scales, which continued
to balance kinetically, although Dudley was careful to hold them
so that no spurious vibrations would be imparted to them.
As soon as the flash was completed the scales were replaced on
the table, then the plateholders, and Dudley resumed his seat.
He is confident that Margery's hands were under continuous
tactual control during this whole operation. Walter then per-
mitted the visitors a view of the scales, still balancing, under
the green flashlight, after which he told Kunz he did not know
whether there was any ectoplasm on the suspender rods23
or not,
as he had been experimenting and couldn't tell whether he had
been successful, but if he had not he would try again and keep
on trying until he got results. When Dudley suggested the possi-
bility that his head might not show in the picture, Walter replied ,
"Fine, then vve '11 have a male, headless ghost holding up the
cales! '' He then told Kunz to take back his plateholders and
bring them Wednesday. Kunz having previously announced that
he was not going to leave any plates in the room except those
he had put on the table, Walter added, "I can work on any that
I want and you have nothing to say about it.''
~allowing some further conversation on various matters, the
sitting closed at 10 :20 P.M.
Both sets of pictures showed the scales in balance with a
1 :4 load, and no signs of extraneous structures.
At the next seance, that of November 23rd,24 the same equip-
ment was used as in the foregoing r eport, and again vValter asked
Dudley to pick up the scales, telling Crandon to turn on the red
light. As soon as the former had the scales well off the table Walter
gave the order to "shoot." Dudley resumed his seat, Kuuz changed
plateholders, and Walter said, "Dudley, pick up my scales again ."
As the latter took his position to lift the scales he was rapped
sharply on the back, in the lumbar region, and a moment later
Walter again asked for the :flash. Following this exposure (the
red light having been turned out) Walter said, "This picture
is going to be a whiz; it will make you woozy; the scales are all
covered with ectoplasm.'' However, nothing of this des01·iption
2s See Note 16.
24 The sitters, in order: Margery, Richardson, Litzelmaun, Miss Laura Crandon,
Mrs. Litzelmann, Dudley, Mrs. Richardson and Crandon. Kunz, 0utside.
708 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
was seen by the sitters during eitker tke red-light intervals or
wken the flask went off, while the pans continued in kinetic balance
under a normal 0:5 load,25 as shown in the photograph (Plate 51.)
herewith.
After the flashlight Walter continued to fuss with the scales
until Crandon asked what be was doing, to which the former
replied, rather. tartly : ''Minding my own business ! You· think
I am trying to convince these people like S-- that I am a dis-
carnate personality, but I'm not. I don't care what they think
about me. I don't want to convince them of anything. I am
not experimenting for their benefit but for my own; I am doing
laboratory work for those on my side.''
In closing the sitting at 10 :30 P.M., he said: "I want to leave
a dim red light on; don't turn on any white light for awhile,
and don't turn on the overhead light (red), don't touch ari.ything
on the table, file out of here without banging around the room,
leave the chairs just as they are, and sit in the same places on
Friday."
The first photograph shows the pans loaded 1 :4, a larger
white mass in the east pan and other masses attached to the
suspender rods. In the second picture the load has been changed
to 0:5, there is much less material in the east pan, while the
miniature "elephant's foot" is poised on the beam, with other
masses at various points.
The photographs show that some very cu:i-ious structures
were present on the east pan and on the beam, although the
sitters observed nothing unusual during the flashlight exposure.
The fact that they saw and correctly described other masses
at other seances in the series indicates that these should have
been noted if they had been visible. The pictures reproduced
as Plates 50 and 51, were .taken with the glass-lensed stereo-
camera, but those taken with the quartz lenses are exactly com-
parable except as. to the differences due to the angle of view.
Another ·picture was taken on November 25th, 1927, with
Richardson holding up the scales as above, and Crandon's notes
state that the former's coat was strongly pulled as he stood
in front of the Psychic. The picture shows that Margery was
controlled by Crandon and Litzelmann during the exposure,
25 The change in the loading seem8 to have been made by Walter.
PLATE 50. EXPOSURE A, OF NOVEMBER 21, 1927, MADE THROUGH A GLASS LENS.
No•rE THE SIZE AND DIS'rRIBUTION OF THE SUBS'rANCE IN THE EAST PAN, AND ''l'UE
SMALLER MASSES 'CLIMBING UP' 'l'HE SUSPENDER RODS.
PLA'l'E 51. EXPO 'UR.E B, OF' NOVEMBER 21S'.L'1
ALSO MADE '.l'UROUGU A GLASS LlmS.
ONLY F'RIIG~I EN'l'S Ol1' 'l'UE SUJJS'l'ANCE REMAIN I N 'l'JlE PAN, 'l'UE SUSPENDER RODS
ME MORE LIBERALLY DECORA'l'ED, THE , .ELEPHAN'l' 1
S FOO'l'' OF OCTOBER 12TH TS
POISED ON 'l'lJE BEAM, Wrl'TI A SMALLEil MASS NEARER 'l'HF. PIVO'l'.
(/)
(!)
>
Qj
.J:
tJ)
-"'
0
0
co
-
8/ kd Curt <X in Bl kd
--------"
( I
I I
\ I
I I
\ Gla.S~ \
I · e ~ 1
I Gobi"- d I
\ Oismc:nt~29 I
I Qe C ·o I \
\ I
I I
I I·
I I
\ -------~ ®
G~tnera()
192 7-B
..~
.
,
Lime Street
Bl'kd Curtain 81 kd
Cameras
IBook Casel
'9.2 7-8
oo
Table
C2J
Medium's
v
Cabinet
lr-:1 l"ant/e
..., ILl nt
Wa.te>:,.rl'-' ('jed)
Pail \.....-
Fi'heostat ""'{ .\-.
~:1::1
tPooCf
Stand
Pho no
graph
(!>lec t'i~
0,~_,,../\ Thi s half is I · I
/ f d Book Case
~ astene . .
....
"'
Ql
..c:
u
._
0
"
(l)
u
.:....__
S kylight above
(Fixed)
Chamber-
Light We ll
Sky light above
Closet
PLATE 52. DIAGRAM OF R OOM.
PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPERIMEN'fS IN 1927-8 709
which, however, disclosed no supernormal structure to account
for the normal balancing of the scales under a 1 :4 loading.
The next sitting in this group took place on November 30th,
while Crandon was out of the country, the controllers being
Richardson and Fife.26
When the sitting began Dudley had
the seat at the Psychic's right, but as soon as -walter came
through he asked the former if he was going to lift the scales,
and when Dudley expressed a willingness to do so, suggested
that he change places with Fife, saying, "I don't want too
much moving about when I am ready for the photograph.''
The sitting began at 9 :05 P.M., and just as Walter finished
the above remarks, the phonograph stopped with a click, whereupon
Walter said, "John, get out of that." Dudley stepped back to
the instrument, opened the cover, and found the brake thrown
to the "stop" position, although he had thrown it off just a moment
before when starting the instrument, and no one else had been
near it. o normal external connection existed to account for this
stoppage, and Dudley is as positive as he can be without having
actually dismantled the phonograph at the time, that the stoppage
was not of normal origin.27
'fhe scales were on the table, loaded 1 :4, and shortly after
Walter manifested they oscillated through a wide range, continu-
ing to do so, from time to time, as he talked to D. Brewer Eddy.
1'hen he said, "Come arolmd here, Dudley, and lift up the scales."
The latter passed round the west end of the table, as be£ore,28
(Marg·ery 's hands having been under continuous control as re-
ported by Richardson and Fife), Fife turned on the red light,
and as Dudley leaned forward to pick up the scales platform
there was a powerful tug at the back of his coat which nearly
caused him to sit down in the Psychic's lap. With the scales lifted
nearly 12 inches, the flash was set off at Walter's command, and
as Dudley returned to his chair Fife turned off the light, while
Walter remarked, '' 'fhat 's a good picture.'' Several of the sitters
20 The sitters in their final order were: Margery, Richardson, Mrs. Litzelmann,
Litzelmann, Mrs. Richardson, Dudley and Fife. Outside: Kunz, Mrs. Fife and
D. Brewer Eddy.
21 The phonogn~ph in the seance room frequently slows down in an abnonnal
manner but rarely stops altogether unless the electric switch controlling the motor
is intentionally operated. In this instance the. combined brake and switch inside
the closed case was operated. Reference to the diagram of the room (Plate 52) will
show the position of the instrument with 1·elation to the cabinet.
28 The writer took the position of control on the assumption that it would he
easier to pass behind the table from that side but Walter asked that he enter
from the west side. On the basis that the structures are supernormally connected
to the psychic this connection would appear to have been made at her right.
710 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
had their eyes open hut no one saw any teleplasm on the pans.
They did see that they were balanced (kinetically).
The experiment was repeated, but this time M1·s. L'itzelmann,
111.1·s. Fife, Eddy and Litzelrnann al'l stated that they saw a white
mass in the east (light) pan. Mrs. Richardson said that her eyes
were closed, while Richardson was not in the most favorable posi-
tion to see this pan. Walter had said that he was going to have
some psychic fleas chasing themselves along the beam, and after
the exposure he announced that it was a fine picture. He closed
the seance at 10 :10 P.M., with the admonition to put on the red
light, go out quietly and leave the light on.
The first exposure through the glass lens shows a large white
mass in the east pan, and the scales balanced with a normal
1:4 load, as shown in Plate 53. A smaller section of the simul-
taneous exposure through the quartz-lensed camera at the south-
west is shown as Plate 54. This camera was closer to the table;
hence, depending on the size of the half-tone, the mass may differ
in size from that in the other picture, but there is no measure-
able difference in the amount of detail recorded as between
glass and quartz lenses.
In the second picture, Plate 55, the scales are unbalanced
toward the east side, (they were balancing kinetically) there
is a smaller mass slightly separated from the large one in the
pan, and others attached to the suspender rods and at various
places along the beam, much as was described by Walter during
the seance, and confirming the observations of the sitters as
to the presence of something in the east pan. For purposes
of comparison, the picture taken through the southwest camera
is also presented, (Plate 56) but, as in the first exposure, the
quartz lens merely gives a different view of the same masses
of white substance. (So rapidly did the flash-gun work that
the writer's lips were caught in the act of repeating Walter's
order to ''shoot!'')
When Dudley changed places with Fife at the beginning
of the sitting he transferred control of the Psychic's right hand
to the latter, who stated that he maintained this control until
the lights were turned on at the close of the seance. Richardson
states that his control was continuous.
PLA'l'E 53. EXPOSURE A, OF NOVEMBER 30, 1027, MADE 'l'IIROUGII GIJASS T
,ENS. Tlm
MASS IN 'l'HE EAS'l' PAN IS llE1'1llNI SCl,NT OF 'l'HE ONE S ilOWN IN EJCPOSURE A,
OF 0 C'l'OBER 12'l'II.
PLA'l'E 54. A PART OF 'l'HE PRIN'l' M ADE 'l'HROUGH 'l'HE QUAR'l'Z-LENSED CAMERA A'l'
'l'HE WES'r OF 'l'l:IE TABI,E, AN D SlMUUJ'ANEOUSLY WI'l'H PIC'l'URE SHOWN I N
PLA'l'E 53.
PLA'l'E 55. EXPOSURE B, O·F NOVEMBER 30, 1927, MADE THROUGH A GLASS J,ENS.
THE MASS SHOWN IN PLATE 53 HAS CHANGED IN FORM, AND, APPARENTLY, PARTS
OF IT ARE NOW A'l'~'ACIIED '1'0 'l'IIE SUSPENDE.R RODS; WIIILE MORE OF' l'l' TS DRAPED
ALONG 'l'IIE BEAM FROM WIIICI-
I IT HANGS AS '!'HOUGH I~' WERE PLASTIC.
PLA'l'E 56. A PART OF THE PIC'l'URE MADE 'J'HROUGH THE QUARTZ-LENSED CAMERA,
J_\ND SIMULTANEOUSLY WITH PLATE 55. (THE QUARTZ LENSES WERE NO'l.' STOPPED
DOWN FAR ENOUGH TO MAKE PERFEC'l'LY SHARP PICTURES 1 SINCE IT SEEMED
DESIRABLE TO USE 'l'HE SMALT.ES'l' PERMISStBf,E CHARGES OF FI.ASH POWDER.)
PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPERIMENTS I 1927-8 711
The next seance at which photographs were made was on
January 9th, follo·wing five sittings of a more general nature.
Three cameras were used as before, but one of those facing the
cabinet had been fitted with a high-speed quartz lens which
gave much better definition than the simple meniscus lens that
had been in use.
The seance began at 9 :15 P.M., and when ·walter came in he
said, ''It took you long enough to get settled.'' He spoke of
some of his difficulties in carrying out the post-seance test of
January 4th, and his method of remote control of the medium,
after which he discussed various other matters, then said, '' Kunz,
are you ready to shoot~'' Receiving an affirmative reply he ordered
the red light and the flash. The sitters saw nothing in the seal~~
pans (other than the 1:4 load), and Walter said that he was
not sure that he got anything (visible) as he had "to get into
the harness again.'' (Kunz had devised a card holder which
would indicate, in the picture, the date and order of its taking,
and this was attached to the front edge of the table; i.e., farthest
from Margery.) Before the second exposure, Walter said, "Here,
Chief (to Richardson), hold this and don't say anything about
it.'' Richardson said that something had been placed under his
right thumb, and it felt like Kunz 's card holder. Walter said
that that was just what he didn't want him to tell; asked for
another flash, and again said that he was not sure he had suc-
ceeded in making his structures visible.
As Kunz was changing plate holders he asked Walter if he
touched him on the right arm. Walter: ''Sure, I nudged you.
Why didn't you speak of it before 1" Kunz: "I was touched on
the head and on the back (also)." (This occurred while he was
sitting in the circle, at Du.dley's right, and next to Richardson
who controlled Margery 's left hand.) Walter said he would do
no more pictures this evening. Dudley felt of the card holder
and found that the card numbered '' 1' ' had been removed from
th-e grooved holder, and, later, that this was the card which Richard-
son held.
Neither of the pictures disclosed any supernormal struc-
tures; both showed the scales loaded 1 :4, and the light pan
grounded.
Three sittings intervened before the next photographs were
taken, and on January 27th two cameras were set up, facing
the cabinet: the stereo camera with glass lenses and the high-
speed quartz lens camera, both mounted on a camera board on
the larger tripod, so as to bring them close together.
712 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
After considerable discussion about various matters not con-
nected with this program, Walter refused to attempt the scales,
and was not at all enthusiastic at the suggestion that he levitate
the doughnut while a picture was being taken. Finally, he told
Kunz to set off the flash two seconds after the red light was turned
on, and this was done, with the result that the doughnut (on the
table) became very brightly illuminated. Crandon reached over
and turned it upside down, much to Walter's disgust, who said:
''What did you do that for? You busted my teleplasm all to --!
You wrecked the whole structure . . I had a spiral built up
and it wasn't one spiral but several, one going to each sitter.
Perhaps you won't be able to see all of them but you may see a
part of them. It is very interesting. "
Crandon reported that he felt teleplasm on his fingers, as did
Mrs. Richardson and Mrs. Pearson, by contact with Crandon's hand,
and Walter insisted that they must rub it off on the table. They
tried to do so, but with little success, although Walter insisted
that he must get all of it back, otherwise "the Kid might have
the pip.'' (Crandon states that the mass on the table was below
room temperature, and felt sticky, like vaseline.)
Another flashlight was tried, and Walter said that it would
show teleplasm but his structures were all shot to pieces, then
again requested the three sitters to scrape off some more teleplasm,
which they tried to do. This was followed by the sound of some-
thing rubbing over the surface of the table, said by Walter to be
his terminal with which he was collecting the teleplasm. After
some further conversation the sitting closed at 10 :30 P.M., length
1 hour 25 minutes.
The first picture presents a collapsed spiral, while the second,
displays this in a very different form, almost as though it
were alive.
Other photographs were taken on January 28th, April 19th
and June 3d, 1928, but none of them recorded the presence of
any supernormal structures. The scales were present only at
the sitting of the 28th.
With the exception of the incident recorded in connection
with the seance of October 28th and that of November 21st,
Kunz had control of the plates from the time they were pur-
chased until they had been developed and printed. He testifies
that these processes were all carried out in the usual manner;
i.e., without any special manipulation other than the use of a
developer especially compounded to bring out the detail in the
PHOTOGRAPHIC EXPERIMENTS IN 1927- 8 713
negatives. The plates which gave the best results were Ilford
!so-Zenith (700, H & D), using 6.5 grains of flash powder at
a distance of 7-8 feet from the table. Recent improvements
in plate manufacture and in photographic equipment for this
purpose show that it is possible to get fully timed negatives
with much less than one-half the amount of powder that was
used in these tests.
Throughout these experiments the physical condition of the
scales was constant: the brass rider was always locked in the
same position, but the loading of the pans was changed from
time to time, presumably by W ~Iter since no normal changes
were known to have been made. It will be remembered that
the average weight of the wooden disks (checkers) is approxi-
mately 1
/ 5 oz.; hence, the normal unbalancing effects can be
readily computed. These effects, however, are by no means
in accordance with expectations; since the added structures
sometimes appear to balance the normal ·load, and at others
to have no apparent effect. In some instances (described but
not illustrated) the scales were in balance or unbalanced toward
the light side in the absence of any visible balancing structure.
In those experiments in which red light was turned on before
the flash there was continuous illumination until the completion
of the exposure; hence, the sitters were enabled to observe the
condition of the apparatus throughout the critical period.2
n In
each instance the photographs have been exactly related to
the seance in which they were taken, and as to the order of
their taking, by Kunz and the writer. The various simultane-
ous exposures through the quartz and glass lenses have been
examined for possible differences in the size and contour of
the structures,30
but without disclosing any such variations; yet
some of the largest and best defmed masses recorded by the
cameras were not seen at all by the sitters.
20 The writer found it difficult to keep his eyes open when facing the flash-
light; therefore, did not attempt to record his impressions of the appearance of
the structures on the scales at the seance of November 30th. 'rhe cross-light from
the mantel light also interfered with accurate observation.
ao A somewhat more critical test than that cited in ]II[_ M., p. 362, in that two
qua1-tz lenses were used at that time, according to the records:
714 lVIA.RGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
It follows that if such differences actually exist there should
come a time, in a series of exposures, when the quartz lens
will register more of a structure than the glass lens, assuming
that the differences in visibility are a function of the amount
of ultni.-violet light that is reflected. Walter makes it plain
that his ability to produce such results depends on the coopera-
tion of the sitters, and that the flash must be set off at the
. exact instant that he orders it. He has stated that with the
smaller charges of flash powder the structures do not break
do·wn so completely and it is possible to take more pictures in
one sitting. This seems to be confirmed, in a sense, by the
fact that the psychic showed practically no physical reaction
to the smaller flash powder charges; while the larger ones often
produced considerable shock.
Even though the results of these experiments do not measure
up to \iValter's expectations, they have furnished some very
interesting and instructive pictures which indicate that photog-
raphy may play an important i:>art in future investigations of
the physical characteristics of the teleplasmic substance.
OHAPTER LVI
The 1\lcOomas-Wood-Dunlap Oommission and Its Report.
In Chapter XXXI (Volume 1, pages 366-389), some account
is given of the effort of the Society in 1926 to procure an im-
partial and adequate investigation and report of the Margery
mediumship by persons of recognized academic standing, and
of the failure that attended the enterprise. The persons se-
.lected were Dr. H. C. McComas, sometime Associate Professor
·of Psychology at Princeton University, Dr. Knight Dunlap,
Professor of Experimental Psychology at the Johns Hopkins
University, and Professor R. W. Wood of the Department of
Physics of Johns Hopkins University.
The convention or agreement between Dr. Crandon and the
Commission of Inquiry, dated January '2!7, 192'6, under which
the work was to proceed is printed in Volume 1 on pages 370-
372. After the terms of that convention had been negotiated
and agreed upon by all the interested parties a copy of it was
formally transmitted to the Commission with a letter which
set forth the terms of the agreement with the Society whose
representatives the commissioners were to be. That letter is
an important part of ·the documentary history of the matter,
and is as follows:
American Society for Psychical Research, Inc.
Fifteen Lexington Avenue, New York
Gentlemen:
January 25th, 1926.
Dr. L. R. G. Crandon, of Boston, has agreed to submit the
mediumship of Mrs. Crandon to scientific examination under certain
stipulations which are embodied in a "Convention," a copy of
which is submitted herewith.
The American Society for Psychical Research desires to have
such an examination undertaken :for the purpose of ascertaining
what phenomena occur and the conditions under which they occur.
It is thought that instrumental or mechanical means might be
devised or adapted for automatically recording and measuring the
715
716 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
phenomena in various ·ways. The Society is prepared to defray
the expenses of such a study, including traveling expenses of the
Commission to and from Boston, personal living expenses while
in Boston, a per diem of $25 to each member of the Commission
whil-e actually engaged in the study of the mediumship and pre-
paring a report thereon, and the r easonable cost of securing appro-
priate instruments and apparatus desired by the Commission in
its work. It will probably be found desirable to employ or other-
wi.'e associate with the work in hand, competent technical assistants.
The Society will be glad upon the suggestion of the Commission
to employ or authorize the Commission to employ such assistants
where their voluntary services cannot be obtained.
The Commission will be entirely free to pursue its study of
the case in its own way without interference by the Society. Copies
of the narrative or observational note. of the sittings shall be .
furnished the Society from time to time, as well as copies of photo-
graphs taken. The Commission shall render to the Society within
a reasonable time a full and complete report of all of its observa-
tions and findings for publication in its '' Journal,'' ''Proceedings,''
or otherwise.
Believing that you are entirely free to undertake this study
and to publish your observations and findings, and that you can
apprqach the work without bias or preconceived opinions upon
the subject that might prevent a full, fair and complete presenta-
tion of the facts, the Society hereby invites you to accept mem-
bership on the Commission. If in the course of your study of
the case you should desire to add other members to the Commission,
the Society will be glad to cooperate with you to that encl.
Respectfully yours,
AMERICAN SociE'l'Y FOR P sYCHICAL RESEARCH.
To:
Dr. H. C. lVIcComas,
Dr. R. W. Wood,
Dr. Knight Dunlap.
By J . R. Gordon,.
Vice-President.
Nothing specific or definite was known by the officers and
trustees of the Society about the gentlemen who were thus to
undertake for it a responsible piece of scientific work, other
than their general reputation and standing in the academic
world. In the fall of 1925 the Society had addressed a general
letter to many universities and colleges in an effort to find a
competent expert to undertake research work for the Society.
The most promising and definite reply came from Dr. Dunlap
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 717
who strongly recommended Dr. McComas, stating that he was
on leave from Princeton for the current half year. This letter
led to a conference with Dr. McComas ·who eagerly accepted
the opportunity to become a paid representative of the Society
and organize a Committee to undertake a study of the Margery
case. He in turn urged the engagement of Professor Dunlap
as the best man for the work, and of Professor vVood as an
expert in problems of light and photography who might suc-
cessfully develop apparatus to take a continuous photographic
record of the seance room action.
The proposed personnel of the Committee seemed excellent
and execution of the convention with Dr. Crandon and the
formal employment of the three professors by the Society soon
followed.
The Society's belief in the impartiality of the men thus
employed is indicated in the closing paragraph of the letter of
January 25th, and frankness on the part of the professors in
dealing with the Society about the matter was assumed. Subse-
quent development and discoveries, however, indicate tl1at in
the case of at least one of the members of the Commission
caveat emptor would have been a safer rule to follow.
In 1920 Professor Dunlap published a volume entitled "Mys-
ticism, Freudianism and Scientific Psychology" (C. V. Mosby
Co., St. Louis) in the preface of which, he contended that phil-
osophic mysticism, Freudianism and Spiritualism (the alleged
phenomena of which constitute a large part of the :field with
which psychical research societies are concerned), constitute a
real unity and "involve an assault on the very life of the
biological sciences, which scientific psychology alone is capable
of warding off." He proclaimed that it is "the duty of the
psychologist to enlighten the public concerning the real nature
of this siren trinity.'' The book itself dealt more particularly
with mysticism and Freudianism and the author stated that
because Spiritualism "is more open and undisguised in its
antagonism to science'' it could be allowed to wait for a later
volume, in which the Professor would deal it a death blow.
In 1925 Professor Dunlap published another volume entitled
718 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
"Old and New Viewpoints in Psychology" (C. V. Mosby Co.,
St. Louis) which contained an essay on ''Psychological Factors
in Spiritualism.'' This essay proceeds on the assumption, which
is claimed by the author to be a demonstrated fact, that psychic
phenomena are the product always of conscious trickery and
sleight of hand on the part of the operator, and that all wit-
nesses, including some of the great and illustrious men of
science, who have reached a different conclusion (not being·
psychologists) were and are incompetent in the subject, victims
of mal-observation, self-delusion, and emotional bias. He de-
scribes the student of psychical research in this flowing, if not
wholly original, rhetoric :
''But your true devotee is the man or woman of failing facul-
ties, and decreasing energies, who sees approaching inevitably the
time when the golden bowl shall be broken, and the silver cord
loosed; when the wheel shall be broken at the fountain and the
pitcher at the cistern; when the almond tree shall blossom and
the grasshopper become a burden; when the sound of the grinding
shall be low, and those that look out of windows be darkened; and
when at last the mourners shall go about the streets. Such a one,
seeing that dread day surely approaching, when that life which
was so wonderful in youth, and which even now is so clear, is about
to be snuffed out like the flame of the spent candle, and lacking
the secure confidence of traditional religious belief, grasps fran-
tically at even the poor pitiful straw of psychic research, and
shuts his eyes to its futility and insufficiency.'' (Page 103-4.)
On page 108 the Professor announced his own conviction
and opinion in the matter of psychical phenomena thus:
''Slate writings, trumpet messages, spirit photographs, mysteri-
ous rappings, are all :fraudulent, as are all alleged physical effects
without normal physical causes. If a medium claims that some-
thing is written on a slate without normal human agency, or articles
moved about, or bells rung, without human or mechanical agency;
or that voices or other sounds heard by sitters are produced by
other than living· human beings; she is a fraud and nothing she
produces is to be taken as other than deliberate fraud."
It may be that despite these and similar expressions of
convinced and long held opinions published by the learned pro-
fessor, he could still as a "scientific psychologist" pursue an
THE McCOMAS- WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 719
impartial study of the Margery case and make a full, fair and
complete presentation of the facts : and such may have been
his own opinion of his ability to suppress the ordinary tenden-
cies of human nature and his justification for the non-disclosure
of his published views to the Society. Few persons, lwwever,
would concede the existence of such a unique faculty even in a
professor of psychology, and the event proved that he was as
frail as other persons.
Professor F. C. S. Schiller of Oxford University, one of
t4e most eminent scholars of the day, has long been an interested
student of psychic phenomena. To persons like Dr. Dunlap
his interest and pursuit of the subject would be evidence of
declining powers or of the existence of a blind-spot in his general
intelligence; yet he may be accepted as one reasonably familiar
by personal association and the contacts of a lifetime \vith the
type of mind and temperament developed in the academic
professor.
In 1905 in the :first number of The Occult Review, Professor
Sehiller published a paper in which he discussed how "the
process of reducing the 'occult' to hum-drum 'science' '' could
be forwarded. His formula was, in some way, to make it a
commercial success because then only could the prejudice
against it be removed and money for prosecuting its study be
obtained. Continuing Professor Schiller said:
"It js necessary to convert both the masses .and the professors.
Of these the former are indifferent, the latter prejudiced as well.
Now nothing, and least of all a miracle, will convert a professor
who has once committed hjmself in prjnt." 1
Unknown to representatives of the Society, Dr. Dunlap had
committed himself i11 print to a settled an¢1. definitively
stated belief that all alleged supernormal psychic phenomena
are fraudulent and produced by conscious and practiced deceit.
According to Professor Schiller's dictum nothing could bring
about a recantaton of that theory, and the object of the Society
. 1 Quoted in ''The 'Story of Psychic Science,'' by Hereward Carrington, New
Yo1·k 1931, pages 72-3.
720 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
in appointing and financing the Commission was, so far as Dr.
Dunlap was concerned at least, foredoomed to defeat.
Crandon's objections to Dunlap on the score of his pre-
viously published belief, discovered by him after the first sitting,
were immediately communicated to the Society, but did not
lead him to withdraw from the convention. The disruption of
the Commission's work before it had barely started came after
and because of the events of the third official sitting. Cran-
don's objection to the qualification of Dr. Dunlap as an ·im-
partial judge, however, among other things, led to the subse-
quent refusal to submit the case to Dunlap for further study.
As recorded in Chapter XXXI the Commission attended a
preliminary sitting on J anuary 2'6th and held official sittings
on J anuary 27th, 28th and 30th. The Commission's own record
of the sittings on the 27th and 30th is printed in Volume 1 on
page:;; 372 to 375, and pages 378 to .383, while Crandon's record
of the intermediate sitting is printed on pages 376-377. The
Commission's own record of the sitting on January 28th is as
follows:
JANUARY 28, 1926.
SrrTING AT 10 LIME ST., BosTON, MASS.
rrll\m, 9 :08 P .M .
Present : Clockwise-Margery, Dr. Wood, Dr . McComas,
Crandon, Dr. Dunlap, Margery.
Dr.
D·ictating Time
Dr. McComas: .
Dr. Dunlap :
Dr. Wood:
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. McComas : 9 :15
Psyche restless, slight groans, and Dr. Cran-
don states this is evidence of trance.
Just before Dr. McComas spoke, Psyche slid
Dr. Dm;tlap 's hand from her :fingers to her
wrist.
Psyche's left foot is on my knee.
Psyche gave me her :fingers.
Psyche's head came forward and rests on
corner of table near the bell box.
Dr. McComas : 9 :26 Both of Psyche's feet are on the floor now.
Dr. McComas: 9 :31 Psyche straightened out and is restless in
her chair with her head apparently on back
of chair.
Dr. McComas: 9 :35 Psyche's left foot is on Dr. Wood's knee
. and her right foot is on floor near her chair.
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 721
Dr. McComas:
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. "Dunlap:
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. McComas:
Dr. McComas:
9:41
9:42
9:43
9 :50
9:51
9:54
9:56
9 :58
Music stopped.
Dr. Dunlap is controlling wrist.
Dr. Dunlap is now controlhng hand.
Psyche's right hancP is in her lap.
foot
Psyche's hand is out again.
Both Psyche's ankles are over by Dr. Dun-
lap, on the floor.
Walter asked for illuminated plaque and
Dr. Crandon went to get it.
Dr. Crandon has just returned from the
other room with the luminous cardboard
plaque, has taken his seat and placed the
bell box on the floor according to instruc-
tions from Walter.
Dr. McComas: 10 :08 Dr. Wood suggested that the plaque was
becoming dim so Dr. Crandon took it into
the other room to replenish it.
Dr. McComas: 10 :09 Dr. Crandon has just returned bringing
plaque very much brightened. He placed
plaque on the table and then placed two
handkerchiefs over it.
Dr. McComas : 10 :14 Walter says he has some teleplasm; it is as
far as the edge of the table.
Dr. McComas: 10 :15 Dr. Dunlap at this point located both of
Psyche's feet, with his right hand, under
the table.
Dr. Dunlap : · 10 :19 Psyche pushed'':' something on to the table'''
threw ' jloo1·
with her right hand.
Dr. McComas : 10 :23 Dr. McComas now sitting apparently op-
posite' Psyche; dark body appears on plaque
having crossed the first cross line east and
west and n ext to Psyche. Both P sychic's
feet are under the table.
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. Dunlap :
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. Dunlap:
Dr. Dunlap:
10 :30 Teleplasm seems to have disappeared.
10 :36 Teleplasm reappears.
10 :38 Teleplasm again appears over at third line.
Teleplasm gone back.
10 :40 Feet both there.
10 :41 Both feet are down and the teleplasm is
still out there.
10 :43 Teleplasm disappeared from my view.
*·ward canceled in original and the word underneath in italics substituted.
722 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Dr. McComas: 10:56 Walter says that he will try and give us
visible teleplasm tomorrow night.
10 :59 Sitting ended.
The word '' teleplasm' '
as used .by me means
only that the silhouette
of somethting appeared.
Psyche was inspected before and after sit-
ting by stenographer, according to her
statement.
Knight Dunlap.2
(Signed ) Knight Dunlap (8 :20P.M., Jan. 30)
H . C. McComas 2/ 2/ 26
R. W. Wood
Crandon's record of the sitting on January 27th, prepared
on the following morning, is as follows:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, January 27, 1926. At 9:08P.M. This
is the first official sitting of ·the Commission of Inquiry of the
American S.P.R.
Present to left: Dr. R. W. Wood, Dr. Knight Dunlap, Dr. C.,
Dr. H . C. McComas and Psyche. 'l'he sitting· was a lashed sitting
in the Richardson glass cabinet. All lashings were made by the
Commissioners and were found to be as made at the end of the
sitting. In addition to this, during· practically all periods of active
phenomena, Drs. Wood and McComas had tactual control of hands
and some of the time of the feet of the Psychic.
Walter came through within five seconds, was cheery and agreed
to try to speak loud enough for all the sitters to hear. He .was
able to make good on this most of the time.
He now called for the big wooden letters "while he was getting
up steam.'' He then proceeded to throw out, identifying as he
did so, four letters with one mistake only, mistaking a four for
a K. He then had Dr. D., with a luminous douglmut in his palm,
put his hand on the shelf in front of Psyche and Walter thereupon
deposited a letter on the palm and identified it as he did so. He
then repeated this successfully.
rrhe luminous basket was now put into the cabinet and the door
was closed and Dr. McComas was instructed to reach through the
front hole and lift the basket to that level. He did so and the
basket was taken from his hand after various pulls, levitated all
about and then dropped. rrhis experiment was repeated, the levita-
tion lasting much longer and the basket was finally thrust over
2 This note and t he conections indicated in the report were made holographi-
cally by Dr. Dunlap.
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 723
to the east back corner of the cabinet over Psyche's head. Dr.
Me. was then told to go in after it between the Psychic's chair
and the east wall of the cabinet and so did with great difficulty.
While he was in this position Walter leviated the three-pound lumi-
nous megaphone and beat Dr. Me. on the head and back with it. The
basket experiment was repeated again. This time taken from the
hand of Dr. D. after several strong pulls and thrown over to the
west back corner of cabinet with Drs. Wood and McComas in touch
with Psyche's hands and Dr. Dunlap controlling the hands, feet
and head of Dr. C.; the megaphone was levitated, kicked and pushed
round in the area just in front of the cabinet over a period of
many seconds. Dr. Wood held the luminous doughnut.in the front
of cabinet and Walter took it from him and levitated it all about
beautifully as high as five feet above the floor and also to east and
west. Dr. W. was then told to put the luminous doughnut on
top of his head and he did so, sitting in front of the Psychic.
Walter then levitated the luminous me~phone and hit Dr. W's
head several times in an effort to ' 'extinguish him'' by putting
the megaphone on the top of his head. The levitation and the
contacts were successful, the extinguishment was not. 'rhe mega-
phone thrown with great force on the floor.
Walter talked several times in half red light and spoke to Dr.
McComas when he was within the cabinet cutting free the Psychic's
head at the end of the sitting.
Sitting· closed at 10 :59 P.M.
At the close of the sitting on January 30th Margery became
ill and further sittings with the Commission were suspended.
In view of the question that has been raised both as to the
fact of such illness, the time of its onset, and the accuracy of
the Commission's report as printed in Volume 1, there is offered
here a photogTaphic reproduction of the last page of the official
report dictated at the time, signed by McComas and Dunlap
on February 3, and by Wood sometime later, the exact date
not being recorded. Before the stenographer's transcript was
accepted by the Commission as accurate it was carefully ex-
amined and verbal and typographical corrections made by the
commissioners in their several handwritings. It is to be noted
particularly that correction was made in the spelling of the
word "nausea," indicating clearly that this sentence was not
accidentally or unwittingly included in the record, and that the
facts it records were not carelessly certified to by the com-
miSSIOners.
724 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
.._..v;L...;:>~~
·:he tenogr pher n!ise Barba:ro)"examined ~.lld fomid the !'s~'c;hio
t r•. ell b03foro the ei tting and found her still um;ell after the
~ tti~~ . '
. ~ '131'0 :'ls nwaen)( o.nd \'Otnitlng of the Peyob.io after the sitting.
·I'~dNr. CLOS":D .\~ U.33 .P, 'f.J.
A further document written by Dr. Crandon on the morning
of January 31, 1926, and immediately mailed to the Chairman
of the Research Committee of the Society, must be added to
complete the contemporary record of the events of the sitting
of January 30th. It was as follows:
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, January 30, 1926, about 9 :10 P.M.
Sitting in the old open cabinet. To left Dr. Wood, Dr. McComas,
Dr. C., Dr. Dunlap and Psyche.
Shortly after the sitting began Dr. McComas took the left con-
trol, chang·ing seats with Dr. Wood. Miss Barbero acted as stenog-
rapher with a dim red light. While Doctors Wood and Dunlap
were controlling, following some idea of their own, they forced
Psyche's knees together and their respective hands were in contact,
thus short circuiting the Psychic out of the circle. After abont
hal£ an hour the Psychic called attention to the method of control
and that she was not in the circle practically and added that she
could stand it as long as they could. Thereupon this arrangement
was broken up. Dr. McComas took Dr. Wood's place and then
each controller had a hand and a foot in his possession. The Psychic
had also a luminous band on each \vrist and ankle and had a lumi-
nous marker on her forehead.
For about an hour and twenty minutes nothing happened, though
the Psychic said she freque'ntly felt herself going apparently into
trance but that the attention necessary by her to keep her feet on top
of her controller's feet kept her from going to sleep. .
'rrance finally came on and then for about three-quarters of
an hour all three observers kept reporting contacts of their hands
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 725
with a cold, rigid rod-like body, covered with a soft envelope.
Dr. Wood with obvious intent described it as "like a stick covered
with leather.'' The mass was felt on the Psychic's thighs and was
felt by Dr. McComas on his hands and cheek. It was felt by Dr.
Wood by his right hand and he said, ''I gave it a good hard pinch,
but it seemed to do no harm." (This is declared by Dr. Crandon
to be an improper act because at the end of the evening before
Psyche could leave the room she vomited on the floor and suffered
from nausea all night). Dr. Dunlap was touched on hand and fingers
and was allowed to feel at least nine inches of the rod-like tele-
plasmic structure. Under instructions he put his nose in the
luminous doughnut on the table and was touched by this rod on
baGk of neck and hair. During all these manifestations Doctors
Wood and Dunlap controlled Dr. C's hands and were in contact
with his knees and most all the time Dr. Wood's hand was held
by Dr. C. against Dr. C's mouth.
The luminous doughnut was now put on the table and the rod-
like structure could be seen in silhouette across it. After a wl1i.le
the doughnut was levitated, whereupon Dr. Wood dictated, '' The
doughnut was levitated and there was corresponding movement of
the Psychic's head.'' Thereafter the doughnut stayed in the air
levitating all about in many planes and in figure of '' 8. '' No
dictation concerning this came voluntarily from Dr. Wood after
his last remark until Dr. C. said, "Gentlemen, the last dictation
gave an 'unfair impression. This doughnut has now been in levita-
tion all about in all directions several continuous minutes with no
corresponding movement of the head of the Psychic. '' Thereupon,
Dr. Wood dictated these facts into the record and did not speak
again during the evening.
The control of both Psyche and Dr. C. being continuous and
just what the sitters wanted, the constant contact with the tele-
plasmic rod and the levitation accomplished constituted a very
brilliant performance.
Sitting closed at 11 :33 P.M.
There was printed in Volume I, on page 383, a letter from
Crandon dated January 27th written after the first unofficial·
sitting. After the first official sitting, on January 27th, Crandon
wrote the following to Walton under date of January 28th,
which is printed also as part of the contemporaneous record:
''The first official sitting went off 100 per cent excellent. Your
commissioners are poor at dictating· records but no doubt will im-
prove. Walter has agreed to try to speak loud enough for them
to hear . 'l'bey all took luncheon with McDougall yesterday but
nevertheless seemed· to enjoy Lime Street.''
726 M.ARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
On January 29th McComas made an informal report to
Button as follows (the italics being editorial):
''The Commissioners all arrived safely for the meeting last
Tuesday night. We met a number of old friends of the family
and had a very informal meeting. Nothing of exceptional interest
occurred. W e met again on Wednesday evening and all three of
your commissioners were very much interested in the matters taken
up. Last night we met again but nothing of any importance
occurred.
We have not yet decided upon what quarters we should take.
I nclcecl it seemed at o1w tirne as tho'ugh one of the commissioners
thm~ght tlw.t ow· wo1·lc mtight be th1·o~~gh so soon that ·it wonlcl not
be advisable to obtain q~~a1·te1·s.
I am enclosing you a copy of the minute.· of the meeting of
Wednesday evening. No minutes were taken for the meeting of
'l'uesday night. The minutes of last night are not yet available.
In general, everything is going along nicely and pleasantly-
about as we had anticipated. W e are hoping for some interesting
developments in the near future.' '
The commissioners, it may be explained, had been authorized
in their discretion to obtain permanent quarters in Boston for
their work. From the McComas report of January 29th it
would seem that an unidentified member, obviously either Wood
or Dunlap, had become convinced after two official sittings that
the problems of the mediumship would be solved out of hand
and after a brief examination. ·whether this indicates the in-
fluence of a preconceived and published opinion that all physical
phenomena of mediumship are fraudulent, or mere self-confi-
dence in an ability to solve quickly problems that many others
had found baffling and intricate, may be debatable; but in any
event a hope or willingness to arrive at a quick conclusion of
fraud is clearly demonstrated, because if the phenomena proved
unexplainable on grounds of fraud a protracted study was
obviously inevitable, and permanent quarters indispensable.
The seance of January 30th, with Margery sitting in the
open cabinet was apparently a difficult one for all concerned.
Trance did not come on or phenomena occur for one hour and
twenty minutes. The sitters were the three commissioners and
Crandon. The Commission's record 3
discloses that Margery
sPrinted in Yol. I, pp. 378-383.
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 727
was restless and frequently complained of distress and pain.
McComas reported Walter's point of view at 10:20 in these
words:
''I never saw such a bunch of stiffs in all my life. Talk about
dead people ; my God !''
But at 10:30 a teleplasmic ·structure appeared and slapped
McComas 's hand ; then Dunlap's ; then McComas and Dunlap
again; and then waved the luminous doughnut. At 10:41
Margery moved Dunlap's hand into contact with ''a cold, smooth
cylindrical something''; then McComas's hand was similarly
brought into contact with the object and· he held it between
his thumb and forefinger. At 10:50 Wood recorded that some-
thing touched his finger; and at 10:.53 Wood dictated as follows:
".Wood: 10 :53-My hand was on the table holding the luminous
doughnut, teleplasmic rod fell in the palm of my hand, feeling like
a rigid rod covered with soft leather. It was placed between my
thumb and finger which were holding the doughnut. I squeezed
it very hard, which produced no ill-effect. The rod then slipped
through the doughnut and raised it in the air."
The sitting terminated an hour later and the official record
closed with the following statement:
''There was nausea and vomiting of the Psychic after the
sitting.''
Crandon's record, made the following morning and printed
above, contains this statement:
"It (the teleplasmic rod) was felt by Dr. Wood by his right
hand and he said 'I gave it a good hard pinch, but it seemed to
do no harm. (This is declared by Dr. Crandon to be an improper
act because at the end of the evening before Psyche could leave
the room she vomited on the floor and suffered from nausea all
night)."
Paragraph 5 of the convention provided as follows:
''No psychic structure shall be touched or interfered with in
any way and no light of any hue shall be turned on during the
sitting except with the consent of the control (Walter). If either
of the conditions of this paragraph is broken, the whole investiga-
tion shall cease at once and the episode shall be considered an
admission that the Commissioners have broken their word as gentle-
men and scientists." 4
4 Vol. I, p. 371.
728 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The official record and Crandon's record of the conduct of
Wood in doing violence to the teleplasmic structure are irrefut-
able evidence that he had broken his covenanted word with cal-
culated disregard of the consequences to the medium.
The paragraph of the convention quoted above was inserted
to protect the psychic against just such abuse of privilege and
the injury to the medium that it was feared and believed might
follow thereon.
It is arguable in extenuation that vVood thought the tele-
plasmic structure was a fraudulent mechanism and that he was
taking the quickest method to demonstrate his theory by treat-
ing it as such. But such prejudgment of the facts at the very
least was inconsistent with the terms of his employment by the
Society. He had no evidence of fraud on which to base such
an opinion because under paragraph 6 of the convention any
fraud or suggestion of frm,1d was required to be made part of
the official record, and the record contains none.5
It seems clear
that Wood, lilce Dunlap, considered the whole case a fraudulent
imposition; that such opinion antedated his employment by the
Society to undertake a serious piece of investigation upon
academic and professional responsibility; that the existence
of such bias was not disclosed to the Society, and that there-
fore the whole enterprise was vitiated from the beginning, not
only as to the Society, but as to the· Crandons as well.
Such was the position of Crandon, who advised the Society
that under no conditions would he ever allow Wood to enter
his house again. His objections to Dunlap, less emphatic and
based on other grounds than applied to vVood, in the end came
to the same conclusion.
Negotiations, mainly with McComas, who was Chairman of
the Commission, were carried on after this sitting, to recast
the personnel of the Commission and continue the interrupted
effort. Margery in the meantime was seriously ill for two weeks
or more, and the facts were fully reported to McComas.
sUnless, indeed, Wood's use of the simile "like a rigid rod covered with soft
leather'' in describing the feeling of the teleplasm can be considered a claim of
fraud.
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 729
On February 1, 19'25, McComas, writing from Baltimore,
reported to Button as follows:
"Dunlap, Wood and I had a meeting this morning and discussed
the general situation. I was pleased to find that Dr. Wood is
very much interested in the case, despite his disparaging remarks
after the close of the last sitting. H e tells me that he is so busy
that he will not be able to go with us each trip to Boston. He
wishes to suggest experiments for us to try and to come to the
sittings when he is able. I think this a very excellent plan, and
we will work along this line for the present.''
This report from the Chairman of the Commission confirms
the conclusion that Wood was from the beginning disqualified
by a prejudgment of fraud. That he was still interested in
the case two days after the last sitting was so surprising a
fact to McComas in view of Wood's comments, that it had to
be particularly reported. McComas was anxious to continue
with Wood on the commission, however, because of his reputed
skill in matters of photography, and on February 16 addressed
the following letter of entreaty and exhortation to his recal-
citrant colleague. That the letter advises .taking an attitude
of impartiality and suspended judgment, while perhaps not a
perfect counsel of corporate hypocrisy, at least makes clear that
McComas knew that Wood's mind ·was no longer open.
My Dear Professor Wood :
109 Broadmead,
Princeton, N. J.,
February 16, J926.
I have just returned from a conference with Mr. Button and
Mr. Walton. Mr. Walton was in Boston last. Sunday and saw the
Crandons. Mrs. Crandon has been ill in bed for the last two weeks.
Mr. Walton says that she still looks very badly and has great
difficulty in retaining her food. It looks like a sort of nervous
breakdown. However, Mr. Walton believes that she will probably
be able to go on with the sittings a week from this coming Friday.
In a very frank discussion of the whole situation it appeared
that both Mr. Button and Mr. Walton are convinced that the Gran-
dons are ·anxious to have the investigation continue, and are very
sorry for this necessary delay. I think I know how you feel toward
the whole situation. It seems to me that we owe a really good and
thorough-going job to these gentlemen in New York. T_
hey..are
interested to have us tell them just how these individual phenomena
730 . MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
occur. Whatever may produce them I feel that it is up to us
to explain them [in] detail. In other words I do not think we
would be handling the matter acceptably if we rendered a report
based on any scanty evidence. The program therefore, is this :
When Mrs. Crandon is able to sit again we shall obtain our own
quarters, and endeavor to take up one thing at a time. The bell
box is the first thing on the program. We shall tackle it and stay
with it until we are satisfied.
It is evident to me that if we are going to get ahead we must
all take the attitude that we are sympathetically studying phe-
nomena which may be genuine. To take a too critical attitude
naturally arouses resentment, and that "·ill not help us in any
direction.
Please write me fully just how you feel about the whole proposi-
tion, and let me have any suggestions that may occm to you.
Very sincerely yours,
H. C. McCoMAs.1
'l1
he following exchange of letters with Crandon further indi-
cate the efforts being made to save the inquiry and the reasons
for its collapse.
Dr. L. R. G. Crandon,
366 Commonwealth Avenue,
Boston, Massachusetts.
Dear Dr. Crandon:
February 18, 1926.
I had hoped to be able to come to Boston this weekend for a
fmther conference with you, but I find that I am unable to do so,
and am therefore making this brief report.
Mr. Button and I had a long conference with Dr. McComas
in New York on Tuesday, and went over with him very carefully
all of the points which have been ·raised in connection with the
investigation, and as a result of our conference we are both strongly
of the opinion that the future course of the investigation will prove
to be satisfactory.
vVe have arranged with Dr. McComas to have the Commission
stop over in New York for a conference with us before proceeding
to Boston to resume the study. In the meantime Dr. McComas
will take up with the others the various points which we discussed
with him and he feels very confident that the Commission will
appreciate the force of the comments which we made and adjust
the future conduct of the investigation accordingly.
Dr. McComas was deeply concerned over Mrs. Crandon's health,
and you will undoubtedly reGeive from him an expression of his
sympathy and warm hope for an early recovery.
1 This letter apparently 1·emained unanswered. See infm, page 734.
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 731
The Commission is hoping to resume the study on the 26th.
Mr. Button and I are very anxious that there should be no inter-
ruption in the program as outlined.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed) DANIEL DAY WAI~TON.
Mr. Daniel Day Walton,
Trustee and Counsel, Am.S.P.R.,
New York.
Dear Mr. Walton:
10 Lime Street,
Boston, Mass.,
Feb. 26, 1926.
I thank you for your letter of Feb. 18, 1926.
I clearly perceive the advantages to psychic science of going
on with the Commission of Enquiry lately organized by the Society.
We appreciate the liberal and sympathetic attitude of the Trustees
of the Society towards the Margery mediumship. I believe that
the plan of enquiry cannot be improved and that it will yield
results which all must accept as valid. I agree with you entirely
that this mediumship presents to the American Society' a privilege,
not only, but also a duty.
Three sittings have now taken place with the new Commission.
Certain episodes of these sittings exemplify what constantly turns
up in the accomplishment of big jobs, namely, that the plan is
good but the personnel bad. The specifications in this instance are:
1. Before any official sitting had occurred, reservation and pro-
test was made by me against two members of the Commission on
the ground of their relative deafness. In my opinion, the mechanical
proof of the independence of the control's whispered voice from
the mouth of the psychic is the keystone of the mediumship. Such
independence is proved apparently by Dr. Richardson's "voice-
machine"; but the deafness of the two Commissioners shuts them out
from this demonstration. A typical seance presents a proved inde-
pendent voice which promises a physical phenomenon. This phe-
nomenon now appears under conditions of control agreed to in
advance as being perfect. The camera then records what the eye
has seen. The conclusions from such a sequence of events must be
far-reaching in a well-trained mind. A man misses much of this
sequence when he is deaf.
2. I find one Commissioner, in a work published in 192'5, com-
mitted to disbelief in the reality of psychic phenomena. (Quotations
can be furnished.) This disqualifies a judge for this inquiry.
3. One Commissioner constantly exhibited indifference and con-
tempt for psychic study in general and for this instance in par-
ticular. This Commissioner violated paragraph 5 of the Conven-
tion of agreement. Speaking of a ''psychic rod'' he dictated ''I
732 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
squeezed it very hard and it did no harm." At the end of the
sitting·, the psychic vomited on the floor. This had never happened
before. Catamenia came at once, and out of time, and persisted
17 days. The psychic lost 19 lbs. was in bed four days and is still
far from well. In our total of over 400 sittings, with over 500
different sitters, no such assault has been made before.
4. The conduct and qualifications of the remaining commissioner
are beyond criticism.
In view of these specifications, I respectfully submit that, as
the chief contracting party, as the next friend of the medium, as
her husband, as an ·experienced student of the phenomena under
investigation, and lastly as a physician, it is my plain duty to
exclude the first two commissioners, herein before referred to, from
participation in future sittings, that may be arranged when Mar-
gery's health shall have sufficiently improved to permit resumption
of the investigation.
Sincerely yours,
L. R. G. CRANDON.
On March 15, 1925, Crandon wrote Walton as follows :
"You will be interested to know that Woocl broke his contract
in another respect besides injuring the teleplasm. His innocent
looking reel light, which I allowed to be substituted for our red
light, had a special screen invented by Wood so although it ap-
peared to be dim red, ultra violet light was streaming though.
Walter said 'The room is flooded with light.' And, on looking
around, the stenographer and I discovered that wherever any ob-
ject in our seance room had any of Geley's luminescent paint on
it it had now become vitalized. The light was not on during phe-
nomena but its periodic presence in the seance room made Walter
fearful of sending out long rods. It was only used the first night.
Don't give up so wonderful a plan. 'l'he right men for it can
be found.''
Toward the end of March McComas inquired as to the possi-
bility of reviving the commission. On April 3rd he sent Cran-
(].on a generous and whole-hearted expression of sympathy and
regret over Margery's illness and sought for an opportunity
to discuss a resumption of the sittings. This led to correspond-
€nce which must be incorporated into the record, omitting only
such passages as deal with entirely irrelevant matters. The
letters and telegrams follow:
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 733
April 20, 1926.
Dear Dr. McComas :
Thank you for your kind letter of April 3rd.
:)(:
*
Dr. Wood's trickiness is discouraging. You will remember that
when be turned on his harmless-looking red lamp Walter immedi-
ately said, '' 'rhe room is flooded with light.'' 'rhis shows that
Walter has a kind of eye that we have not, since we could see no
light but the red. How much nearer the conduct of a gentleman,
if Dr. Wood had told us what he was up to. Our attitude is just
as purely scientific as his.
As to giving the "terminal a good hard pinch" this apparently
was the cause of the immediate nausea of the psychic and also
of uterine hemorrhage which went on for nineteen days with the
loss of twenty pounds. She has never flowed over.four days before
in her life. The discouraging feature of this is that it should be
done by an academic man of repute. When you think that we
have had over six hundred sitters of every class in society, and
that this man, Wood, is the first one to break his given word, are
we not f01·ced to turn to the common people for intelligent under-
standing, even as Jesus did~
The plan of the American S.P.R. is as good as it ever was. We
shall deal no more, however, with a group of investigators. You
(for whom we have great affection ) and one or two others may
sit, but only under strict control of our friends, with orders to
deal roughly with anyone again who breaks his agreement. W e
have about come to this state of mind: you with not over two
others are quite welcome to come and see the bell-box phenomenon
ad nauseam. You may then build one of your own and try the
same experiments. Then you may, if you choose, write about the
bell-box after you have learned all that can be learned about it.
When this experiment is put away, exhausted and labeled, then
we will proceed to another phenomenon. To give a big show is
to give you psychic indigestion.
With renewed assurances of my esteem,
Dear Dr. Crandon :
Sincerely yours, .
L. R. G. CRANDON, M.D.
109 Broadmead,
Princeton, N.J.,
April 23, 1926.
I was very much pleased to get your letter of April 20th, and
to learn of your kindly feeling toward me and willingness to go
ahP.ad with our investigation.
Dr. Wood 's conduct is a matter of keen regret to me. His
association with the Harvard men seemed to give him an attitude
734 MARGERY JYIEDIUMSHIP
which he certainly did not have when I first invited him to join
the committee. His attitude toward the committee was about as
inconsiderate as his attitude toward you. We could not g·et hold
of him for conferences or to make plans. He came ]ate to the
sittings and left in haste to catch his bus. I constantly hoped that
he would change his attitude and make some contributions to the
investigation through his profound knowledge of photography.
Since our last sitting I have written him twice and have received
no replies. I shall make no further effort to have him cooperate
with us in any way. Inasmuch as I was responsible for inviting
Dr. Wood into the committee I want to apologize for his conduct,
both at the sittings and when enjoying your hospitality. Doctor,
I am really very much chagrined and mortified. Some of the
things that occurred annoyed me greatly, but I felt the wisest policy
was to ignore them.
I have Dr. Wood's red lamp shade with the ultra violet screen
in it. I would be glad to send it on to you and have you experi-
ment with it if you care to do so. It may have great possibilities
in photography.
What do you think of this plan ~ Dr. Buford Johnson is a
professor at the Hopkins University. A very capable and well~
known psychologist, and also a very charming lady. I should like
to have her and Dr. Dunlap for our further investigations with
bell-box and pressure box. I am sure that both you and Mrs.
Crandon would like her. If this is agreeable to you let me know
and I will write her and also the Society and see what plans we
can malce.
With kindest regards to Mrs. Crandon and yourself.
Very sincerely yours,
H. C. McCoMAS.
April 29, 1926.
Dear Dr. McComas:
Please be thinking over the fact that we believe that Dr. Dunlap
is unfitted to hold a judicial position with regard to the "Margery"
111()diumship.
Although we frankly and specifically at this moment are out
only to establish, with regard to your Commission, the reality of
the physical phenomena, one of the hypotheses which must be con-
sidered, of course, is a spiritualistic one. Dr. Dunlap, in his book
published in 1925, speaks with discouraging bluntness of ''This
Blight of Spiritualism." A superior court judge who had thus
expressed himself on a case would not be allowed to sit.
We shall be very glad to have Dr. Dunlap take part in the
study of certain standardized physical manifestations like the bell-
box and balances, but we strongly doubt that be will be able to
I
J
'l'HE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMlVIISSION 735
judge fairly when he comes to the phenomena which have a sub-
jectiv€ content.
Dr. L. R. G. Crandon,
10 Lime St.,
Boston, Mass.
Sincerely,
h R. G. CRANDON, M.D.
May 2, 1926.
Letter just received. Will be glad to talk the matter over with
you when I see you. Please wire me at onc€ if we can have our
sittings next Friday, Saturday and Sunday. I should let Doctor
Dunlap and Dr. Johnson know right away. With best regards.
Dr. H. C. McComas,
Princeton, N. J.
H . C. McCoMAs.
May 2, 1926.
You are welcome May 7, 8, and possibly 9. Don't bring the
others this time.
Dr. L. R. G. Crandon,
10 Lime St.,
Boston, Mass.
L. R. G. CRANDON.
5 P.M., May 2, 192'6.
For me to come alon€ would embarrass Committee. May we
not all come~
Dr. H. C. McComas,
Princeton, N. J.
H. C. McCoMAS.
6 P.M., May 2, 1926.
Dunlap not agreeable to us at present. Must know qualifica-
tions of any new members, and must confer with Walton about Mch
one before accepting.
L. R. G. CRANDON.
May 3, 1926.
Dear Dr. Crandon:
I receiv€d your wire last night and was very much surprised
to learn that you did not wish Professor Dunlap to come to the
sittings at present. I can see \Yhy you would object to Dr. W ood
but I am quite unable to see anything in Dr. Dunlap's attitude
to which anyone could take exception. I know of no on€ who would
approach the problems in a fairer and more scientific way than
he does.
I have phoned to Mr. Button and he concurs with me, in the
736 MARGERY M:J]JDIUMSHIP
opinion that if Dr. Dunlap is to be discriminated against, the work
of the commission must be abandoned.
If you will think the whole matter over I believe you will agree
with me that Dr. Dunlap is an exceedingly valuable man and
the fact that he has published his view concerning spiritualism
is all the more reason why you should convince him of the error
of his ways. Indeed, he is quite as open-minded as I am and I
am sure that if you permitted him to carry on a scientific investi-
gation and he became convinced that he was wrong in what he
has published he would be perfectly willing to say so.
I am willing to live up to the letter and the spirit of our con-
vention, and have done so; but it is not possible to conduct a scien-
tific investigation under the conditions that you now impose upon
me. I have tried to see the situation from your point of view.
Now won't you try to see it from mine 1
vVith kindest regards to Mrs. Crandon and yourself.
Very sincerely yours,
H. C. McCoMAS.
May 4, 1926.
Dear Walton:
I enclose copies of McComas's letters and also copies of tele-
grams between McComas and me on Sunday.
Dunlap I think we cannot have. He has committed himself
too thoroughly against this "Blight of Spiritualism" to be judicial,
and his personality is very depressing. Personally, I don't see
why McComas should select the Committee, nor that he has shown
any particular ability to do so. we want to know the qualifications
of Committee members.
As ever, sincerely,
L. R. G. CRANDON.
May 6, 1926.
My dear Walton:
I enclose a copy of a letter from Dr. McComas, dated May 3,
1926.
I have tried to ease Dr. Dunlap out of the Commission for
reasons which I have told you verbally, but that I have hesitated
to put in a more enduring form in writing. It seems now that I
must do so.
(1) Before there was any sitting of the Commission, I protested
against Doctors Wood and Dunlap because both are deaf.
(2) I further protested, in writing, against Dr. Dunlap because
of an expression of his in a recent paper on Psychical Research.
In this paper he says that we cannot get rid of ''This Blight of
Spiritualism" until the whole matter is submitted to trained psy-
chologists, or words to that effect. Suppose that a member of the
Committee had written a paper containing the expression ''This
Blessing of Spiritualism.'' Would he stay on the Commission 1
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 737
(3) Dr. Dunlap dictating notes to a female stenographer during
the sitting· said, ''The whatcha-may-call-it feels to me like an --."
Whether you agree with me or not, it is my decision that such
a comparison constitutes behavior impossible for a g·entleman under
the circumstances. It was apparent that the whole sitting was
to him only a joke. A true scientist would have described the
terminal as to its length, breadth, thickness, temperature, degree
of hardness and softness to superficial feel and to firm grasp, and
other specifications. There were plenty of similes which this man
could have used in the presence of the female stenographer, to
say nothing of decent respect for the Psychic, even though she
was unconscious in trance. Dr. McComas heard all this, and his
opinion seemed to agree with mine at the time.
(4) As to bringing· Dr. Buford Johnson, what reason have we
to believe now that Dr. McComas knows the qualifications of a
researcher 1 How can we expect a psychoJogist in the same depart-
ment as Dr. Dunlap, but of a lower rank, to give an opinion really
independent from his ~
(5) We have fully the same right to challenge the jury that
the Society has. It is only by this scrutiny that we shall avoid
repetition of the failures of all previous psychic investigations.
'rhere have been scores of wonderful mediums. They have entered
the seance-room without a friend. There has been no check-up as
to what occurs. The medium has had no more chance o£ equity
than the accused before a tribunal of the French Revolution.
(6) In this cause we are the donors. We are making social
and professional and financial sacrifice that the Society and· the
world may get new precise observations in this matter, so full of
possibilities. There is no medium in history so willing to cooperate,
so compliant to conditions, as this one. All the glory, all the his-
torical prestige will go to the Society and to the Commission. The
medium (under her nom d'esprit) will remain nameless.
(7) Phenomena are now here to be seen, at most any sitting;
under conditions of such strict control that over 400 sitters have
found no flaw. Such manifestations are:
(a) Levitations of objects in a plate-glass cabinet with the
psychic's five extremities lashed with wire;
(b) cognition of objects in the dark and with no contact
with the psychic;
(c) mechanical demonstration that there is a bodiless voice
present;
(d) the "Scientific American" bell-box is rung intermit-
tently in red light while being carried around the room by
anyone, passed through the hands of all sitters present, and
examined, all in the same period of 1·ed light j
(e) chemical balances, built of brass and wood by Dr.
Comstock -of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, are bal-
anced contrary to gravity; no mechanical reason is found,
and yet a quartz-lens camera shows always a structure on the
738 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
empty pan. The stability, once established, continues when
the Psychic leaves the room, or when the balances are lifted
by the investigator.
Think of this wealth of well established phenomena waiting
here to be observed and recorded ! All we ask is that you will
send judicially minded GENTLEMEN of intellectual courage.
Nor are we prepared to wait indefinitely, nor to interrupt the
work of the advanced group while fraud-hunters seek to enter.
In the presence of the advanced group, of such men as Dr. M. W.
Richardson, Charles S. Hill, Alfred W. Martin, Dr. Brewer Eddy,
John Haynes Holmes, we are having materializations of hands,
which are felt, temperature taken and are seen to move and act
as if directed by intelligence. We are having paraffin molds of
single and double hands. In short, this extraordinary mediumship
is advancing constantly and must be recorded, if not by the Society,
then in some other manner. If the Society fails to do it, it fails
in its duty to those whose benefactions support it.
I think a conference on this matter is imperative.
Sincerely, and with expressions of my highest esteem,
L. R. G. CRANDON.
At the date of the last letter it was clear to all that the plan
of investigation by the McComas-Wood-Dunlap Commission had
utterly failed. The financial ac~ounts of the commission had
been settled and the enterprise was at an end.
The Society, accepting McComas's representation of his atti-
tude and ambition in regard to psychical research at face value,
engaged him for six months to undertake as a sort of research
apprentice a general study of psychic phenomena to include the
Margery mediumship whenever possible and in such way as
might be arranged. He began his work under such temporary
appointment on July 1'5, 1926.
Three months later Profesl;!Or Dunlap addressed to the So-
Society the following unsolicited letter, which was duly
acknowledged:
THE JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY
HOMEWOOD
Baltimore, Maryland
American Society of Psychical Research,
15 Lexington Avenue,
New York City.
September 25, 1926.
I desire to submit, herewith, my resignation from the Committee
to investigate the "Margery" case, if my resignation is technically
in order. The Crandons having definitely broken their signed
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 739
contract with us, with no formal reason given to the Committee,5
it would seem that we are released automatically. Certainly, our
contract with them is no longer binding, and I shall assume, unless
there is some point not yet made clear to me, that I am free to
discuss the sittings. If a report of the work, as far as we were
permitted to go, is desired, I shall be glad to submit to the Society
a personal report along the following lines.
1. We were given courteous treatment and cooperation up to
the time the investigation was broken off. I held myself in readi-
ness to complete.the work throughout the remainder of the college
year, inconveniencing myself to do so.
2. In pursuance of our plans, we viewed the phenomena pre-
sented, and assumed that we had seen the most interesting phe-
nomena. We were, therefore, prepared at the next sitting to
commence the scientific investigation, which would have been futile
previous to a general view of that which the investigation was to
cover. I may say that the view had been so satisfactory that my
own plans for the work were quite definite.
3. So far as my own plans were concerned, they remained as
outlined at the beginning. I have no interest in looking for, or
attempting to detect, trickery. My sole interests are; first, in
finding interesting phenomena, and next in determining the condi-
tions under which these phenomena will and will not occur. I know
of no other method of scientific investigation.
4. As a result of our sittings, and the comparison of the results
with the reports of previous investigators, I am of the decided
opinion that no investigation of this case so far carried out and
published has any scientific value. It is obvious that scientifically
definite conditions were not established, and that much of the
essential conditions were either not controlled, or are not reported.
This has no decisive bearing on the question of truth or falsity
of the claims for the phenomena.
5. None of the phenomena viewed were such as cottlcl not, ttncle?·
the conditions which obtained, have been p1·oduced withont the
aiel of forces and methods al1·eacly admitted by physics and psy-
chology. This does not mean that they were actt~ally in·ocltwecl
by such 1neans. On this point neithe1· we, nor p1·eviot~ investigat01·s,
have any tntstwo?'thy evidence. (Italics Edito1·ial.)
6. Finally, since I assume that the Crandons objected to me
on the basis of my previously expressed opinion that no occult or
"spiritualistic" phenomena have been proved valid,6 I must remark
that a committee composed entirely of members already committed
to a belief in these alleged phenomena w<Juld be valueless, and a
G This is of course an evasion of the fact that McComas, the Chairman of the
Commission, was fully aware of Crandon's decision and the grounds on which it
was based. The Chairman alone was authorized to speak for the Commission and
represent it in the conduct of the investigation. See Par. I of Convention, Vol.
I, p. 370.
o The Professor here distinctly misstates his previously 8)..-pressed opinion.
740 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
positive report of such a committee would have little scientific
weight.
KNIGHT DUNLAP.
The important part of this letter is the italicized fifth para-
graph in which it is frankly conceded that the Commission had
no trustworthy evidence that the phenomena observed by them
in the four sittings they had with Margery were produced with
the aid of forces and methods already admitted by physics and
psychology. In other words, the Commission had no evidence
that the phenomena were produced by normal means, though the
learned professor thought they could have been so produced.
In the end intellectual dishonesty works its own undoing.
A year and three months after the last sitting of the Commission
at Lime Street, and after McComas had served for six months
with indifferent and doubtful success in his new duties as re-
search apprentice with the Society and had departed with the
denunciation of certain members of the Society ringing in his
ears over a hoax he perpetrated on them under the guise of
a seance with an admittedly fake Hindoo medium presented
as genuine, he got his former colleagues of the defunct Commis-
sion together and from his personal address in Baltimore sent
to the Society the following communication, called a report of
the Commission. Dunlap had apparently forgotten and ob-
viously had not shown to his colleagues his letter of September
25th, and McComas found it convenient to overlook his state-
ment to Wood, "I do not think we would be handling the matter
acceptably if we rendered a report based on any scanty
evidence.'' The paragraphs have been numbered to facilitate
discussion of the document.
The Research Committee,
April 18, 1927.
4100 North Charles Street,
Baltimore, Md.
American Society for Psychical Research,
15 Lexington Avenue,
New York City, N.Y.
Gentlemen:
(1) The . undersigned subinit this report to you at this time
for the following reasons: Dr. Crandon is taking advantage . of
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 741
the delay in the appearance of a report to spread the impression
that the Commission as a whole has not found unfavorably for
the Margery mediumship, and also it has now become evident that
Dr. Crandon will not permit any member of the Commission to
carry on an investigation of a genuinely scientific character.
(2) Your Commissioners had several sittings with Dr. and Mrs.
Crandon in the last week of J anuary, 1926, which were reported
stenographically at the time of ·the sittings. These reports were
sent you immediately after the sittings and it is unnecessary at
this time, therefore, to discuss the sittings in detail. The purpose
of the present report is to give you the conclusions of your Com-
missioners based on the observations of these sittings, the reports
of others, and some experiments of our own.
(3) The Sittings which were allotted to your Commissioners
were for observational purposes only, and no controls devised by
us were imposed upon Mrs. Crandon and no experiments were
planned and consummated in the seance room. It was our inten-
tion to observe the effects Dr. and Mrs. Crandon produced and
to make our experiments later.
(4) At the first sitting there were many of the friends of the
Crandons present to whom we were introducecP Some of them
constituted what Dr. Crandon termed his Advanced Circle. It
was inttmded by the Crandons to be an evening in which the usual
effects should be presented for our observation. There was one
effect, however, which they told us was a novelty.. This consisted
in rendering luminous paint, which had lost its fluorescence in the
dark, luminescent. A disc with a hollow center had been painted
with luminous paint and had become dark. We were told that
"Walter's" terminal would cause the "doug·hnut" to glow. \Vhen
the doughnut became luminescent the friends of the Crandons ex-
claimed with pleasure and congratulated "vValter" upon his
achievement.
(5) Dr. Wood reproduced this effect in his laboratory at the
Johns Hopkins University, using a pocket flashlight and an ultra-
violet filter. This phenomenon is a baffling one to people who
are unacquainted with the action of luminous paint in the presence
of very short light waves. Dr. Crandon had ample opportunity
to employ a pocket flashlight in this way, and actually had a flash-
light in his pocket on the side towards the medium at the sitting.
(6) The bellbox was featured in these sittings as an especially
remarkable phenomenon. Dr. Dunlap noted the change in the ten-
sion of the steel spring during a sitting. He constructed a box
in which the spring was enclosed in the body of the box, and could
be adjusted for various tensions. This arrangement precluded
any tampering with the spring. Dr. Dunlap was never permitted
to substitute his box for the one the Crandons had been using.
1 'l'he only sitters other than the Commissioners themselves were Conant, Rich·
ardson, Hill and Crandon.-Ed.
742 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
In two boxes made after the pattern of the Crandon box the same
effects that the Crandons obtained were obtained by taking the
tension from the spring during the sitting, and prevented short-
circuiting the connecting wires, which are outside the box in the
Crandon arrangement, and which can readily be short-circuited
by using· a needle, thus causing the bell to ring.
(7) Your Commissioners were informed by Dr. Crandon that
psychic rods protruded from ·the body of the medium. He stated
that they were very sensitive and could perceive the pips on playing
cards and could identify various small objects and wooden letters
in complete darkness. At the last sitting one mt:lmber of the Com-
mission squeezed the end of such an alleged rod and neither Margery
nor "Walter" were aware of the fact until it was dictated for the
stenographer.
(8) Dr. Crandon had stated that the extreme sensitivity of
these ''psychic rods'' showed how intimately they were connected
with the vitality of the medium. He argued that any vigorous
handling of such rods might injure the medium. After the in-
cident above .described the sitting continued for forty minutes with
the rod in vigorous activity. After the sitting one of your Com-
missioners suggested that Mrs. Crandon remain in the cabinet until
the light was turned on and that a search then be made. When
Mrs. Crandon heard this she began to gag and cough as though
ill. She bent forward as though vomiting and hurried from the
room. An examination showed nothing upon the floor and the
stomachic performance seemed simulated.
(9) In the opinion of Dr. Dunlap the "psychic rod" employed
on this occasion, as judged by feeling and by usual observation
in the dim light, was the intestine of some animal, showing the
stumps of some blood vessels and stuffed with some substance like
cotton, throug·h which ran several wires.
(10) 'l'he next day Dr. Dunlap and Dr. McComas visited the
Crandon house and did not find Mrs. Crandon any the worse for
her experience; she ran up and down the stairs easily and seemed
in excellent spirits. These details are mentioned because Dr. Cran-
don had maintained that his wife was made ill from the squeezing
of the so-called ''teleplastic rod.''
(11) FTom the time of this incident it was impossible to have
further sittings as a Commission. We had provided in our- Con-
vention to have any disagreements adjusted by a Committee of
three. Dr. Crandon would not have recourse to this agreement.
He continually refused to have further sittings but would not
give his reasons to the Commission:7
(12) In the summer of 1926 your Society engaged Dr. McComas
as a Special Research Officer. He attended a number of sittings
with Mrs. Crandon but was not permitted to try any tests with
7 See note 5, supra.
y
THE McCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 743
the medium. He succeeded on one occasion in greatly improving
the controls :for Mrs. Crandon but was not permitted to continue
and to impose controls upon Dr. Crandon and his associates. Alter
several months of effort to experiment he abandoned that method
of investigation as impossible while Dr. Crandon had control of
the situation. He then sought to duplicate the ''Margery phe-
nomena." Professor Grant H. Code, o£ the University of Delaware,
reproduced the levitation effects excellently; he also reproduced
the bellbox effect and the reading of the cards in the dark.
(13) Dr. McComas held two seances in his .office at the Society's
building, using a Hindoo for the ''medium.'' These meetings
were attended by members o£ the Society who had had wide ex-
perience in psychic research. Some fifteen of these sitters vohm-
tarily signed statements to the effect that' these phenomena were
done by no normal means known to them. Five of the sitters had
seen the Margery phenomena and agTeed that these were quite as
good as Margery's. These phenomena consisted in the ringing
of the bellbox, whistling and whispering by the medium using a
voice cut-out of the Richardson type, reading cards in the dark
and the appearance of psychic lights.
(14) These effects and those obtained by Professor Code are
excellent duplicates of the Crandon performances.
(15) In view of the above findings your Commission submits
that the Margery mediumship is a clever and entertaining per-
formance but is unworthy of any serious consideration by your
Society.
(16) We submit further that the unwillingness of Dr. Crandon
to allow the Commission to proceed with the investigation is a suffi-
cient indication that no investigation by competent investigators
employing the methods and checks required in all scientific research
is likely to be permitted.
Signed: H. C. McCoMAs,
R. W. WooD,
KNIGHT DuNLAP.
This document voluntarily offered as a discharge of a pro-
fessional responsibility a year and more after it was known
to all that the engagement had ended through the frustration
of its object by the conduct of a commissioner, is but additional
evidence of the initial disqualifying bias of the commission and
the determination of the academic mind to discredit anything
that challenges a conventional orthodox and previously pub-
lished theory.
That the contact which the Commissioners had 'vith the case
was quite insufficient to afford the basis for any judgment what~
744 MARGERY lVIEDIUMSHIP
ever as to the nature of the phenomena they had witnessed is
plain; and that they had no evidence upon which to base a
scientific report is also admitted.
In paragraph (1), moreover, they announce that they are
making the report because at last they are convinced Dr. Cran-
done would not permit any of them to make a genuinely scien-
tific investigation. The "report" therefore, is self-defined as
an expression of personal views, not based upon evidence and
reflecting only preconceived opinions.
As to paragraph (2) the Society -vvas of course not interested
in the conclusion of 'the Commissioners based on ''the reports
of others,'' and certainly up to the 9th of May, 1926, no joint
experiments of their own had been made. McComas's own
strictures on his colleague's conduct sufficiently indicate that no
serious cooperative effort was made by the Commission at any
time. The tendered ''conclusions'' of the commissioners, more-
over, are completely inconsistent with the view expressed in
the earlier personal report of Professor Dunlap printed above.
As to paragraph (3) the nature of the control that obtained
on January 27th was duly described and applied by the Com-
missioners themselves as appears from the account printed in
Volume I, pages 372-3173. \i
Vhether the controls were devised
by the commissioners or by other investigators is of little im-
portance. They were in fact rigorous and effective-more dras-
tic, perhaps, than any medium ever subjected herself to before.
The suggestion that controls devised by the commissioners
would have been more effective or more acceptable as effective
· to the academic mind, is rather subtly grotesque in view of the
efforts of McComas to improve the control and make it perfect
against the criticisms of Houdini. (See record of sitting Sep-
tember 18, 1926, Chapter XLVI, pages 521-28.) A definite dis-
cussion or specific criticism by the learned commissioners of
the control that in fact obtained might have had some value;
but there is no reason to believe that ''controls devised by us,''
would have been more effective.
As to paragraphs (4) and (5), the sitting referred to was
the preliminary one of which no record was made by the com-
'
'rHE McCOlVIAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 745
missioners. The ex post facto account of it produced a year
and a half after the event is on general principles of orderly
procedure so obviously inadmissible as part of the record that
resort need not be had to the terms of the convention to rule
it out. But that document specifically required that fraud or
suggestion of fraud be dictated into the record or be deemed
non-existent. (See paragraph (6) of the Convention, Vol. I,
page 371.) The wisdom of that requirement in the interest of
truth has been repeatedly demonstrated and is confirmed by
this charge of fraud revealed for the first time in this belated
utterance of the Commission. Crandon denies the use of the
flashlight for the purpose suggested by the Commissioners.
That the Commissioners should formally seek to support their
suggestion of fraud by resort to ex parte and ex post facto
statements of fact conclusively ruled out by the terms of their
own covenant with ·crandon, does but indicate the bankruptcy
of their case. Even the ''scientific psychology,'' so beloved by
Professor Dunlap, would hardly honor s~lCh technique as likely
to contribute to the ascertainment of fact.
Paragraph (6) alleges that the bell-box "was featured in
these sittings,'' and offers a theory that the bell was rung by
short-circuiting the current with a needle. Accuracy seems
not to be a characteristic of certain academic minds when bent
on supporting a preconceived theory. The bell-box was in fact
tlsed only in the first unofficial and informal sitting of which
no record was made, and so in no sense "featured these sit-
tings." The comments made above on paragraphs (4) and (5)
thus apply equally to paragraph (6) which also contains a fur-
ther s~tggestio falsi that has no relation to fact. The paragraph
says "Dr. Dunlap was never permitted to substitute his box
for the one the Crandon's had been .using." No request for
such substitution was made and until this document a}
)peared
no one at Lime Street or in the Society lme\v of Dunlap 's box-
building efforts. It is to be hoped that Dr. Dunlap was not
here using intentionally his skill as a psychologist to create
the false impression that Crandon l1ad specifically refused to
allow use of the Dunlap box; but to the non-p1·o.f' 13l:li. n 1 m {n d
746 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the implication conveyed is plain. Such are the vagaries of
the human mind that for some persons conviction of fraud by
innuendo rather than by evidence may be possible, but as a
process adopted by supposedly disinterested scientific men in
discharge of a professional duty its use can succeed only in
convincing a fair mind that the charge of fraud has no founda-
tion in the evidence whatever.
Paragraphs (7), (8), (9) and (10) deal with the hard squeez-
ing of the teleplasmic rod by vVood and the illness of the psy-
chic at the close of the seance. The hoary technique of adding
to the record to serve a present purpose is again resorted to
in an effort to escape from the 'cold, unemotional and damning
recital of the commissio1iers' own contemporaneous official
account of ·what actually happened. The official record says:
''Ther-
e was nau. ea and vomiting of the Psychic after the
sitting·."
In view of the challenge to the accuracy of this statement made
by the commissioners long after the event, Crandon's contem-
poraneous account becomes material. He recorded on the fol-
lowing morning before any q~testion of cont1·oversy as to the
facts had a1"isen or been suggested, the following facts:
"At the end of the evening before Psyche could leave the room
she vomited on the floor and suffered 'from nausea all night."
The commission report elaborates and embroiders the official
record as follows :
"One of the commissioners (identity not given), suggested
that 1\'Irs. Crandon remain in the cabinet until the light was turned
on and that a search be then made: When Mrs. Crandon heard
thi: she began to gag and cough as though ill. She bent f?rw~rd
as thongi1 vomiting and hurried from the room. .1;\-n exammatwn
showed nothing upon the floor and the stomachic performance
sremed s1m'ulated."
Except for the young woman stenographer Crandon and his
w
if \~ '\'~ n"'c
m in t-ho roo:Ql with thes~ three men_. He denies
n \ _ ., '' r1
o...,.,,/·ioJJ of earch of the · psychlC.;was made
H \ fl ; Cll1 Y sm bJ " , , , ~ • .
oy aB)'One. ~J.lhe stenographer was present for the express 1?UT-
THE 1\IIcCOMAS-WOOD-DUNLAP COMMISSION 747
pose of taking a current account of what happened and she
included a statement of the result of her search of the psychic
before and also .after the sitting. If the commissioners at the
time thought that the psychic was fleeing from the room in simu-
lated illness to avoid search, such an observation clearly con-
stituted a "suggestion of fraud" required by paragraph 6 of
the convention to be recorded in the narrative notes and its
absence should be a conclusive estoppel against any claim that
such was the fact and that the commissioners entertained any
such theory. The result of the post-sitting search was recorded
so that it cannot be urged that there was a simple case of over-
sight in dictating the notes. The care of the commissioners in
correcti11g the spelling of the word "nausea" in .the steno-
graphic transcript again dispels any doubt that the narrative
of facts \vas accurate.
After a year and a half's cogitation on the events of this
tragic occasion when the pledged covenant of a man was so
brutally broken, the three investigators, to protect the reputa-
tion of their confrere, united in an explan,ation of the matter
that belies their own contemporaneous record made in the course
of their professional duty, and if true, would indicate d<;lliberate
simulation of illness by Margery to evade detection of a fraud
in which Crandon was necessarily an accomplice. The frequent
defense of a criminal is an alibi supported by manufactured
evidence. It has remained for an attempted investigation of
psychic phenomena to disclose that even men of academic repute
may resort to an analogous technique to support a theory pre-
viously held and published and escape condemnation for inex-
cusable conduct.
Paragraphs (11) to (13) relate to matters that did not come
within the observation of the commission and have therefore
no proper place in the report. The alleged duplication of the
Lime Street phenomena by Code and by McComas under con-
ditions of their own making may prove their cleverness at
sleight of hand or as illusionists; but it has no relation to the
serious investigation of the Margery case. That distinguished
academicians should adopt such mountebanking as a substitute
748 MARGERY lVIEDIUMSHIP
for serious attack upon the problems of psychical research does
but serve to emphasize the resistance to new ideas and strange
facts developed by men vvho become conventional professors with
an announced theory to defend.
Dunlap's ''stuffed intestine'' theory of the Margery tele-
plasm is a rare contribution to the nascent science of meta-
psychics, taking rank with McDougall's "regurgitated liver."
In exchange for its expenditure of time, effort and money in
connection 1:vith this Commission the Society at least plumbed
for itself some of the depths of academic prejudice and learned
something of the facility with which the academic mind con-
tacting a new idea or strange unclassified facts can, on no evi-
dence at all, announce a conclusion of fraud.
CHAPTER LVII
Post-trance Recording of Seance Cognitions
In the study of the JY.(argery mediumship it has been noted
frequently that experiments, apparently quite simple at their
inception, have been elaborated, at vValter 's suggestion, to an
extraordinary degree, and with results that have been almost
beyond belief. This has been preeminently the case with the
so-called Cross-Correspondence tests, carried out at Lime Street
in 1927 and 1928.
Begun as a simple attempt at post-hypnotic control of Mar-
gery at Lime Street it ended in multiple post-hypnotic control
of mediums widely separated in space; at Boston, New York,
Niagara Falls, Ogunquit, Maine, and :finally Venice, Italy.
Moreover, incidentally, the control, originally confined to Wal-
ter, was delegated by him during one period to Chinese entities
who, in turn, were able to exercise multiple influence on mediums
in distant cities. Finally, and of the greatest importance, the
fact came out that, even in the absence of Margery, vValter
could cognize in darkness objects at Lime Street, and could
transfer their characteristics in whole or in part to Margery
(at Newton, Mass.), Valiantine (at New York), and Hardwicke
(at Niagara Falls).
This subject will fall naturally into three subdivisions-
I (a) Mediumistic post-hypnotic suggestion, Margery present at
Lime Street. (b) Mediumistic post-hypnotic suggestion, Mar-
gery being absent from Lime Street, and, II, Chinese control in
mediumistic post-hypnotic suggestion.
It ·will be best to begin our discussion with a somewhat
detailed account of the original experiment and the events which
led up to it.
I had been reading Dr. T. W. Mitchell's book on "Medical
Psychology and Psychical Research''; more specially Chap-
749
750 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ter I: "The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules." As is
well known, if the sugg·estion be made to a hypnotized person
that, after a certain period of time, he shall execute a certain
act, the act in question will in many instances be carried out
with almost mathematical precision both as to time and as to
manner. Take for instance the following example, given by
Dr. Mitchell :
".June 23rd, 1906, 1 :10 P.M. Before I gave the suggestion the
subject had been in hypnosis for twenty minutes and bad no or-
dinary means of knowing the time. The suggestion was that in
135 minutes [due, therefore, at 3 :25 P.M.] she should go into the
garden and pick some flowers, which she should give to Miss A.
I asked Miss A. not to let I~'. D. [the subject] out of her sight for
an instant, to keep her away from clocks or watches until the
suggestion was fulfilled, and to note the time when this took place.
On June 24th, Miss A. gave me a paper, written and signed by
herself, stating that F. D. gave her three flowers at 3:22P.M., after
spending six minutes in the garden.''
Transferring the idea of this experiment to the Margery
mediumship, I was curious, in the :first instance, to see whether
a suggestion .made to Margery, in (mediumistic) trance, would
be carried out in a manner similar to that seen in a hypnotic
subject. The unique and supplementary idea then occurred to
me that Walter, her "control," might in such case act as the
hypnotizer. 'The idea had moreover a peculiar piquancy in
that many observers had tried to make out that "Walter" was,
himself, simply a hypnotic impersonation associated insepara-
bly with the organization of Margery; so that, if we succeeded
in getting post-hypnotic influencing, by vValter, of Margery, we
should either have disproved this viewpoint, or created a very
unique situation in which a secondary reacts .hypnotically upon
the primary who has hypnotically brought this secondary into
being. I think most readers will agree that such a suggestion
is preposterous ; and that if we really succeed in proving post-
hypnotic influencing of Margery by vValter, we shall have gone
a very long way indeed toward·proof of Walter's independence.
A peculiar difficulty presented itself at once. Was Margery
really in tranf ~ If not, any audible suggestion made to her
POST-TRANCE RECOl~DING OF SEANCE COGNI'l'IONS 751
by Walter or sitters could be reproduced easily later. This
diffi~mlty was quickly removed by utilizing Walter's well-known
pov'fer of seeing and reading in the dark. For example, one
evening I brought a new, unbroken pack of playing cards,
unusual in that the size was about twice that of ordinary play-
ing cards. In this pack, unsuspected by any one, was a card
covered with printed advertising. By chance this card was
submitted to ·walter in the dark for diagnosis. Promptly he
read some of the words-'' guaranteed,'' etc.
For our first experiment, therefore, it was po::;sible for \¥al-
ter to choose, in the dark, material unknown to any one else.
He could then, for the purpose of post~hypnotic action, impress
s'ilently upon Margery the character of the material cognized.
The first requisite for this procedure was then to furnish
a device upon which vValter could, in the dark, indicate a
specific number, in such fashion that even were Margery con-
scious she could not know what this number was. Such a device
was found -in the perpetual calendar illustrated as Figure 1.
Turning the knob through, a half-revolution brings a new figure
into view. If some sitter first turns this handle arbitrarily in
the dark seance-room and if the calendar is then passed over
to vValter who turns it further, neither Walter nor the other
person can normally know, save by prearrangement, what num-
ber is brought into view. The possibilities of an arbitrary and
unpredictable choice are increased by the fact that the calendar
may be turned either forward or backward.
To this calendar I added a further element, in the shape
of six ordinary white cards, on each of which I drew in ink a
simple geometrical figure. These figures were about two inches
in height. It is of course not so evident with them as with the
calendar that no means of normal tactual perception exists.
It was my proposal that Walter, himself, in the dark, turn
the calendar to any number; and that he then, in the dark,
-select one of the six cards. Having made these selections, he
was to place the calendar and th~ chosen card in a box and
put the cover on the latter. At the end of the sitting, while
Margery was still in trance, he was to indicate silently to her
752 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
. /
0
'
POS'l'-TRANCE RECORDING OF SEANCE COGNITIONS 753
the number and the :figure ·which he had selected and cognized.;
doing this, it ·will be seen, instead of making audibl<;J announce-
ment of his cognitions to the sitters. Downstairs, after the
seance, Margery would then try, by process more or less analo-
gous to automatic writing, to draw the :figure and write the
number; and the element .of post-hypnotic timing was to be
introduced by Walter's suggesting to her that she do this after
the lapse of the 1n~1nbe1" of minu.tes indicated by the calendar
number chosen by him. In this way and only in this way could
the time element as well as the matter of the suggestion proper
be known to Walter and yet with certainty not known normally
to ~i[argery or any sitter. It was pointed out to \i\Talter that
the timing would have to be from the moment of leaving the
seance room; 'and that he would therefore have to select a
number large enough to give the sitters opportunity to get
·downstairs and get settled there.
ExPERIMENT OF ,JANUARY 4, 1928
In so far as the above explanation of procedure implies con-
sultation with Walter, it carries us ahead of the story. The
experiment as just outlined took form in my mind but was
revealed to nobody until the occasion on which it was carried
out. On January 4th, 1'9'28, I brought the calendar in its box
to the seance-room and placed it beneath my chair. Very soon
\iValter noticed it and wanted to know its nature and purpose.
He then, in the dark, under full hand-control throughout the
circle, picked the box up off the floor, placed it on the table,
opened it, handled the calendar with his teleplasmic terminal,
and said that he could '' see '' the numbers perfectly in the dark.
Of course the experiment depends for its validity upon the
presence of total darkness so that they could not be seen
normally; this point is adequately covered in the previous pub-
lication cited above.1
The calendar and the conditions were
suitable for the demonstration of supernormal cognition, what-
ever might come of the hypnotic exp,
eriment.
At this stage of the seance I discussed the experiment ·with
1 Pp. 749-50.
754 MARGERY MEDIUMSI-:IIP
Walter for the first time, Margery being presumably and appar-.
ently in trance. vValter was not particularly enthusiastic but
promised to do his best. The sitters were, in clockwise order:
Margery, myself, ·Mr. Carter (the only stranger), Mr. Dudley,
Mrs. Richardson and Dr. Crandon.
Toward the end of the sitting, Walter in the dark chose a
number on the calendar and put it in the box. He chose also
a geometric card and put it in the box with the calendar. The
box was then covered and given into the custody of Mr. Carter,
who also took charge of the remaining five cards to guard against
any substitution. At the end of the sitting Walter indicated
that the hypnotic part of the experiment might have to be done
in somewhat of a hurry; further, the exact moment from which
time was to be counted was not made entirely clear. It was
at approximately 10:217112 that, Margery being completely
emerged from trance, we all went rapidly downstairs together.
Dr. Crandon with no delay produced a pad of paper and apencil.
As had been suggested by Walter himself, Margery and 1\h.
Carter sat down together at a table as though to attempt auto-
matic writing. At 10:33 Margery began to write, and produced
the following script:
· "I cannot hold the control any longer. I am using the ten
on the calendar and then-I must go."
Completing this at 10 :34, Margery made .a circle under the
writing and then stopped. Mr. Carter opened the box and
took out the card upon which was a drcle. He then took out
the calendar which showed the 10, as in Figure 1. The experi-
ment, therefore, had been almostly completely successful in its
outcome, the only question apparently being that of the lapse
of time: only 61/2 minutes instead of ten. The explanation of
this I believe lies in the fact that vValter, as often happens
when he· leaves, was distinctly in a hurry and so could not
await the lapse of the full ten minutes. The writing certainly
indicates that he was retaining the control ·with difficulty and
that there was necessity for haste. -Of course this might be
urged against the hypnotic interpretation of the results and
in behalf of -the l).ypothesis that Walter was still present in
POST-TRANCE RECORDING OF SEANCE COGNITIONS 755
the more usual spiritistic control sense; but subsequent results
will quite rule out any such explanation. In point of fact, at
the next sitting I asked Walter how he had exercised his con-
trol over Margery's writing hand, and inquired whether he had
been present at her metaphorical elbow to direct the production
of the script. This he denied, saying that he had remained
upstairs in the seance-room, two flights removed; but he stated
that he had maintained from there a connection of some sort
with the medium. He used the word "yarn" here, and seemed
to have in mind much the same sort of thing as in the early
occurrence of this word in his seance philosophy.1
If we now cast up the account to see where we stand, .we shall
find that at least the situation fairly bristles with supernormal
phenomena, as follows: (a) \¥'alter's independent voice;2
(b) teleplasmic terminals lifting the box from the floor to the
table, removing the cover, removing and manipulating the con-
tents; (c) cognition in the clark of the number on the calendar
and the geometric :figure on the card; (d) transcription in bril-
liant white light, through automatic writing by the normal,
waking medium, of facts known only to ·walter. The time-
cognition, of course, was not accurate. This aspect must there-
fore await further experimentation. Very important is it tQ
bear in mind that the experiment was unexpected by any persm:i
in the circle save myself; so that the possibility of preparation,
collusion or confederacy is eliminated at once.
The experiment having succeeded in its main aspects, we
must now consider briefly and inadequately several important
points. Margery seemed to be her normal self during the writ-
ing downstairs, though we shall later have some slight modifi-
cation of this statement to record. Dur~ng the sitting upstairs
she was presumably in trance. If not, she would have to .be
clairvoyant in the clark and we have no other indication out
of :five years' experience that this is the case.
As to \Valter: is he an independent p-
ersonality exerting his
post-hypnotic effects exactly as did Dr. Mitchell1 Oi· is he a
1 See Bircl: Marge1·y the Mulium, p. 98.
2 See J01£1'nal, A.S.P .R., Dec., 1925, p. 673.
756 MARGERY lVIEDIUMSHil'
secondary personality inseparably connected with Margery ~ If
this latter supposition be the true one, does Margery through
self-hypnosis become ·walter-Margery, acquire clairvoyance,
make suggestions to the entranced Margery who then later
carries out the suggestions as made ~ Is the hypnotic power
of the Walter-Margery entity restricted in its scope to Margery,
o1· can it be exerted upon two or more subjects simultaneously ~
This latter question was the one which struck me with great
force as particularly and peculiarly pertinent; and at this junc-
ture I was fortunate in securing the assistance of another me-
dium, George Valiantine, ·who together with Margery became
the subject of further experiment.3
He was in Boston on J anu-
ary 20th, attending a Margery seance, and in this way was
brought into contact with the cognitive and post-hypnotic
experiments.
ExPERIMENT No.2
The sitting started at nine o'clock, with the sitters in this
order, clockwise: Margery, Valiantine (the, two mediums, side
by side in the cabinet), Dr. Richardson, Miss .Silsbee, Mrs.
_Richardson, Mr. Dudley, Mrs. vVoolley, Mrs. Cornell, Mrs. Can-
non, Dr. Crandon. Behind the circle were : John Crandon,
Harriet Richardson and Dr. Robert Nichols. ·The sitting was
very diversified because of the presence of the two mediums,
each with his o>vn controls. An outline of the action that is
of interest in the present context would be about as follows:
In order to continue the experiment on post-hypnotic sug-
gestion, I had brought to the seance-room a flat box containing
s It is with utmost appreciation that I acknowledge at this point the wholehearted
cooperation in these experiments of the following g1·oups of individuals:
First: George Valiantine, medium, associatec
l -with members of the New York
Section of the American Society for Psychical Research; and among the members,
particularly Mrs. William M. Cannon, Mrs. Charles G. Comell, M1·s. Comella Woolley,
M1·s. Estelle ·warner, Mrs. John Moody and Mr. T. H. Pierson, Chairman of the
Research Committee.
Second: Dr. Henry Hardwicke, medium at Niagara Falls, N. Y., associated with
Katharine S. Hardwicke, Donald Kellogg, Dorothy E. Kellogg, Bj. Klass'en, Emily
H . Klassen and Derick Cross.
Third: Mrs. Sarah Litzelmann, medium, sitting temporarily at Ogunquit, Maine,
with K arl Litzelmann, Kate Tucker, Edna Burlingham and John Helt, Jr.
POS'r-TRANCE RECORDING OF SEANCE COGNITIONS 757
(a) a daily calendar with individual sheets, numbers 1 to 31,
suspended on metal rings approximately like a certain style
of loose-leaf memorandum book, the metal calendar of Experi-
ment No. 1 being discarded because Walter dislikes to touch
metal with his terminals; (b) a series of ten white cards also
suspended on rings, each card bearing a geometric figure about
two inches in diameter; (c) a series of five sheets of white
paper, commercial size, with pasteboard covers, also suspended
on metal rings, and each white sheet bearing, in black letters
approximately one inch high, a set of directions for actions
to be carried out by the two mediums after the sitting, provided
Walter could put these actions across as a matter of intra-
trance suggestion. I discussed the experiment with Walter,
and he expressed confidence that he would be able to choose,
in the dark, a number from the calendar, a card with geometrical
figure, and one of the paper instruction sheets; and to ''put
across,'' in the subsequent light, the appropriate cognitions
and actions, with the two mediums in the waking state. vValter
having made the necessary arbitrary selections in the darkness
of the seance, the box in which he had placed the three sheets
or cards selected by him was covered and turned over to Mrs.
Cannon, who kept it in her custody.
At the end of the sitting, for the purpose of the time-cogni-
tion, three stopwatches were punched .simultaneously by Mr.
Dudley, Dr. Crandon and myself. The circle then passed rap-
idly downstairs, the necessary two flights to the book-room;
where Margery and Valiantine were placed back to back on a
long stool, wi.th table, pencil and paper in front of each. After
six minutes and eight seconds both mediums began simultane-
ously to write. Margery wrote: "I am going to write
it is for seven minutes," and drew a flat cross like an X.
Valiantine wrote: ''Seven minutes,'' and drew a similar cross.
The production of the two crosses coincided at six minutes,
twenty seconds. Shortly after this, Margery stroked her nose
with her hand, turned completely around, and in a rather em-
barrassed manner said that she wanted to pull somebody's nose.
Valiantine then turned and each put his right forefinger on
758 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
the nose of the other. This took place at eight minutes, 26
seconds. Then after another interval Margery and Valiantine
got up together and walked to the :fireplace, where Valiantine
took the tongs. The two mediums then walked into the back
hall, there they put out the electric light by pressing the button
with the head of the tongs held by Valiantine. Both were dis-
tinctly embarrassed, being unpleasantly conscious of the fact
that they were behaving in a superficially foolish manner.
The exhibition being apparently over, Mrs. Cannon opened
the box. It was found that the calendar stood at 7; that the
white card bore a ''flat cross'' like the letter X; and that the
conduct of the two mediums had close but not perfect corre-
spondence with the instructions of the :first two white sheets.
The one sheet read: M dl; V each touches nose with fo1"efinger;
the other: M walks to hall, p~tts o~d light; V walks to fi1"eplace
and handles tongs. The experiment was therefore practically
perfect in its outcome. The time cognition was of course not
strictly accurate; ·but before the experiment Walter had said
that this would probably be tho case. Then, too, as regards
the post-hypnotic suggestions of conduct, these were not carried
out exactly as I had had them in my mind, for my intention
was : (a) that Margery and Valiantine should each touch his
own nose with his own forefinger; (b) that Margery should
walk alone to the hall and put out the light and that Valiantine
should walk alone to the :fireplace and handle the tongs. Walter
did not apparently understand my thought fully; which fact
is in itself important as showing that the mediums were not
acting hypnotically upon my personal initiative, but rather upon
that of some other mind.
·with this experiment our position is advanced. It is clear
that we now have to do either with (a) a single independent
entity, ·walter, who exercises hypnotic power, simultaneously,
over two sensitive individuals; or with (b) the dual Walter-
1\i[argery personality, which hypnotizes not only itself but also,
and spontaneously, another sensitive person, to produce id~n­
tical and simultaneous post-hypnotic manifestations. In this
connection the following incident is of interest and importance:
(
POST-TRANCE RECORDING OF SEANCE COGNITIONS 759
During the above described sitting it will be remembered that
Margery and Valiantine were sitting side by side in the cabinet.
I controlled Valiantine 's left hand, his right being ostensibly
held by Margery's left. Margery was apparently in trance;
Valiantine was not. Walter with his witty quips and stories
was keeping the circle highly amused. It happened, however,
that Valiantine 's laughter was very loud and boisterous; so
much so, that Walter warned him that continuance would neces-
sitate his putting Valiantine ''out,'' which is to say, into trance.
In spite of the warning Valiantine continued to show his amuse-
ment very noisily. Whereupon Walter said, in a tone humor-
ously sad but very :firm "George, this is where you get off. Go
to sleep, little boy: sleep-sleep-sleep.'' Immediately Valian-
tine 's hand, which had been gripping mine :firmly, became limp;
and he made no sound for ten or :fifteen minutes. Could any
expert have employed a more professional manner in inducing
hypnosis in a sensitive subject~
Now in the experiment just detailed, the post-hypnotic phe-
nomena were obtained while the two mediums, Margery and
Valiantine, were in close. personal proximity. Obviously the
next important question was: Can Walter produce identical,
simultaneous, post-hypnotically or otherwise controlled phe-
nomena, if the two mediums involved are separated by some
considerable distance~
Within a very few days this question was answered aff-irma-
tively, Margery and Valiantine being, during the experiment,
about a mile apart. Then, after a good deal of further par-
tially successful experimentation, Valiantine being in New York,
the following brilliant result was secured on February 17, 1928.
Moreover, a third medium, Dr. Hardwicke at Niagara Falls,
was included.
ExPERIMENT OF FEBRUARY 17, 1'928
The Lime Street sitters were, in clockwise order as always:
Margery, Dr. Richardson, Mrs. Baker, Miss Silsbee, Mr. Dudley,
Mr. J. H. Brown, Mr. Adler, Mrs. Frothingham, Mr. ·Bond,
Mr. Litzelmann, John Crandon, Mrs. Richardson and Dr. Cran-
760 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
don. Of these thirteen participants, four were slightly back
of the main circle but so close thereto that it seems desirable
to indicate the order of sitting complete from end to end as a
single group.
A new sheaf of calendar pages had been brought in, together
with a new set of geometrical cards. These were shuffled before
the sitting by Miss Silsbee, and were then put in her custody
in a closed box. Later, when instructed to dq so; she placed
this box on the seance table; and when Walter had indicated
that he was finished with the contents, she put the cover on
and the covered box again remained in her charge, until opened
in due course after the seance.
·walter's conversation was quite general, but with respect
to the experiment of the evening he said that for tonight, Mar-
gery would "make up a problem," to which Valiantine and
Hardwicke would each give half the answer. After he had
duly worked over the contents of the box and after the seance
had ended, Margery, downstairs, asked for pencil and paper,
and at 10:05 began to write. She was particularly impressed, on
the present occasion, with the fact that this kind of writing,
after ostensible hypnotic suggestion ·by vValter, produces none
of the numbness of forearm and hand such as she is accustomed
to experiencing when experimenting with ordinary automatic
writing. The script produced on the present occasion consisted
of two lines of figures and words; the first line reading
"11 x 2 = " and the second one being likewise and with equal
obviousness incomplete: "to kick a dead." These facts were
attested by the signatures of all sitters; in view of the fact that
none of the results of the evening were in any sense diagram-
matic or pictorial, it seems unnecessary to reproduce the writ-
ings herewith.
At 10:38 the box was opened. The calendar number 11
was on top of the collection of number-sheets and geometrical
cards ; next in order in the group was the geometrical card
carrying the figure X; and under this was the calendar sheet 2.
The assumption that Walter intended all three elements to
figure in the test was supported by the fact that these two
calendar sheets, and only these, were torn from the ·pad. It
POST-TRANCE RECORDING OF SEANCE COGNITIONS 761
will be seen that a considerable bit of ingenuity has been exer-
cised to string these three elements together, and to select three
elements susceptible of such stringing, into a specific prob-
lem or statement which remain unfinished, lacking the final
element. If \iValter's promise given during the seance is to
be made good, we shall expect the right-hand member of this
equation, 2'2, to come through Valiantine and Hardwicke; and
since half of it was promised through each of them, about the
only way in ·which success may be visualized is through the
writing of the single digit "2" by each of them.
At about 10:50 (P.M., of course, as throughout) Dr. Crandon
telephoned to Hyslop House in Nevv York, where the Valiantine
cJ"~
-?
FIG. 2.
sitting had been held. Mr. T. H. Pierson, Chairman of the
Research Committee of the A. S. P . R., anwwered the telephone
and reported verbally in terms confirmed by letter the next
morning. Two things stand out. First, the ostensible ·walter
control, speaking through Valiantine at 9:40, said: ''The Kid
is out already,'' meaning that she had emerged from her trance.
This, it will be seen, was correct; though it is by no means the
fact that the Lime Street seances are always so far advanced
at that hour. Further, between 9 :57 and 9:59 Valiantine wrote
as follows: "2- No one ever stops to- \i\Talter"; in three
lines, as indicated by the present punctuation..
The Hardwicke sitting in Niagara Falls was held in the
presence of only two persons besides the medium. Little hap-
pened until 9 :50, at which hour Dr. Hardwicke went into trance.
Raising his right hand, still in Clontact with the left hand of
his neighbor, he picked up a pencil and wrote rapidly and ac-
curately on two of the pieces of paper in the center of the table.
The substance of what he wrote was the word "horse" and
762 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
the :figure "2"; but the arrangement of this script was suffi-
ciently unusual to merit the illustration which we give it in
Fig. 2. This result was telegraphed at once to Boston, the wire
being received over the Lime Street telephone at 11:49 o'clock
and reading: ''Nine forty five I-I 0 stop R stop S E 2. ''
It will therefore be ·seen that the numerical exercise which
Walter had undertaken was completed with perfect execution ;
Hardwicke and Valiantine each having written half the answer
to the equation set down by Margery. Further, as regards
the words written by the thr~e Psychics, these can evidently
. be put together to make sense only in the following order:
"Nobocly ever stops to kick a dead horse-Walter." This
sentence re1Jresents a catch phrase which Walter was in the
habit of using while alive, just as today in the seance room
he produces and uses such phrases (e.g., its a long alley that
has no ash-ban·el) where they are appropriate. It is of some
importance that this spontaneous subject matter, which cotdcl
have been a matter of prearrangement between the mediums,
was coupled in the same experiment with the elements chosen
in the seance room, which could not have .been pre-arranged.
In the present case this seance room choice was apparently a
considered one by Walter, rather than an arbitrary one made
at random by a sitter; but this merely makes the episodes a
little less rock-ribbed rather than in any sense vitiating it.
It is also to be noted, for future reference, that during the
Lime Street seance of this date, vValter volunteered the sug-
gestion that at some future sitting he ·would choose, in Lime
Street and in the dark, test cards in Margery's absence. Far
from being the "reel herring" of which one distinguished critic
of the mediumship has complained, designed to create confusion
in the minds of .the sitters between promise and performance,
this undertaking was actually made good within a week.
Finally, after a considerable period of time, and to cap the
climax, a success was recorded in this series between Margery
at Lime .Street and Valiantine in Venice. The details published
by Mr. Bligh Bond (Psychic Research, May, 1930) will be given
in the next chapter.
CHAPTER LVIII
The Boston-Venice Cross-Correspondence
SuMMARY
PERSONNEL: Count Piero Bon and a large group sitting at
his house in Venice, Italy, at 11 P.J
\L and the Margery group
sitting at 10 Lime ·street, Boston, at 5 P.M., May 27, 1929. Thus
both groups sat practically at the same period in absolttte time.
The notes are signed by all those present.
(b) 'TI-IE MATERIAL TO BE TRANSFERRED: 9 one-day calendar
sheets were selected fortuitously and, unseen by the selector,
marked on the back for identification and sealed in an envelope.
(c) ExPERIMENT No. 1 : SITTING AT BosToN : The room
absolutely black. Margery in trance. Three of the marked
calendar sheets were taken by chance from the sealed envelope
by Mr. Bond and laid on the table in front of the medium. After
apparent reading by Walter, Mr. Bond put them away in a
separate pocket. Sitting adjourned, but all persons remained
in sight of each other till 9 P.M. the same night.
(d) ADJOURNED SITTING 9 P.M. SAME NIGHT: -White light, no
trance, Margery writes 3-5-10. Sheets read by Walter pro-
duced from Mr. Bond's pocket were found to be 3-5-10. Full
account of sitting, written, sealed and mailed to Venice same
night.
(e) SITTING AT VENICE: Valiantine in trance wrote the num-
bers 3-5-10. Full details of the sitting were written, sealed and
mailed to Boston at once.
(f) ExPERIMENT No. 2: May 30, 1929, same groups sitting in
both places, except that Valiantine is absent, two sensitives
present in the Venice group received and wrote, at least eighteen
times, the figures 429 or 249. These numbers turned out to be
the next three numbers m the original envelope held by :Mr.
Bond in Boston.
763
764 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
(g) RESULTS ATTAINED: Thus, it appears that at the :first
sitting Walter cognized not only the three numbers presented
to him, but the next three in the pack; and was able to transmit
the second three to Venice in the absence of Valiantine, and
without knowledge by any sitter at either place concerning the
nature or details of this second experiment.
:i(:
*
FoREWORD. Various accounts have been printed from Italian
sources of the remarkable facts in the transmission of a series
of numbers unknown to any of the sitters or medium, through
the agency of "vValter," Margery's control, the numerals
being in all cases correctly transmitted and recorded at the
Venice sitting within a few minutes of their being read in
Boston. These accounts have been published in the English
periodical "Light." They give the story as it is known by
the Venice group; but the full narrative of the incident with
the relation of the circumstances which led up to it, the Boston
sittings and the conditions under which the messages were sent
across the world-over four thousand miles of land and sea,-
has yet to be chronicled. Dr. Crandon has supplied all the
necessary documents in the case and we are thus in a position
to tell the whole story of a test which seems unique in the annals
of psychic science.
THE TWO EXPERIMENTS: . The story OIJens with a prediction
by Walter, May 2, 1929, of the arrival of a cable from Europe
shortly ·with a proposal of certain work. Nothing happened
then until May 25, 1929, when the folloViri.ng cable was received ·
by Dr. Crandon of Boston from Count Piero Bon of Venice.
"T1aliantine sitting Monday 9 p.rn. Italian. Bon."
This telegram came ''ri.thout any previous planning and was
wholly unexpected.
Mr. George Valiantine is well known as one of the cross-cor-
respondence mediums working with Margery, HardViricke and
Sary Litzelmann from time to time during the preceding year.
It was apparent then that this telegram from Count Bon meant
that he wanted to try a transatlantic transmission of some sort.
J
'fHE BOSTON-VENICE CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE 765
A telegram by cable ·was immediately sent back to Count
Bon to this effect:
"Yo~t sit 11 p.m. Ital'ian time. Cra;nclon."
This change from the time suggested by Count Bon was in
order to make a reasonable sitting time, namely 5 P.M. in Boston.
At the sitting 5 P.M. May 27, 1929, at 10 Lime Street, Bos~on,
there were (clock-wise ) Dr. Mark IN. Richardson, Mr. Grandi,
Mrs. Grandi, Mrs. Alfred vV. Gray, Mr. Fred Adler, Mrs. Rich-·
ardson, Mr. Bligh Bond, Dr. Crandon. Behind the circle were
Mr. Nagouchi and Mrs. Gray, who later took her place in the
circle. It was estimated that 5 P.M. in Boston was about 11 P.M.
in Venice.
5 :07 P.M. Sitters assembled. Dr. Crandon and Dr. Richardson
controlled the hands of the medium. Thi control was maintained
throughout the sitting. Dr. Crandon 's right hand was placed upon
Mr. Bond's knee and ther-
e remained without interruption. Mr.
Bond acted as the recorder and held the material for the test.
This consisted of a small bunch of one-day sheets nine in number,
from a desk calendar. The sheets had been abstracted from the
calendar (a loose-leaf one) by Mr. Bond who took them individually
face downwards, so as not to see their dates, and marked each one
in ink on the back for identification before placing them within
an envelope. This envelope he sealed and placed in his breast-
pocket. Mr. Bligh Bond testifies that he had only seen the backs
of the leaves and was entirely without knowledge of any one of
the numbers on their faces. This record was made by him on
Tuesday May 28, 1929, the day following the sitting.
5 :09 P.M. There ensued a two-miriute discussion between the
sitters on the subject of technicalities of procedure with the idea
of obviating any charge by hostile critics as to ''crowd-telepathy.''
5 :11 P.M. The medium went into trance and Walter's voice
was heard in comment upon this point. He recommended that
Mr. Bond should hold the leaves, which might be cognized by
Walter unseen by anyone present until 9 P.M., Boston time, when
everyone in Venice would be in bed.
Walter greeted and joked ·with his sitters. After a short in- /
terval of silence, during which he appears to have paid a flying
visit to Venice, he was heard to say ''I can't understand a word
they are saying over there. It's as hot as h-1. "
5 :15 P.M. (about). Walter instructed Mr. Bligh Bond to take
one of the leaves from his envelope and place it on the table.
Mr. Bond opened his sealed envelope in the dark and felt for one
leaf, which he took at random from the nine enclosed. This he
l
766 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
placed upon the table just in front of the medium. (N.B. Absolute
darkness was maintained during the sitting.)
Walter chatted with Mrs. Gray (a cousin of his family) promis-
ing her an ''apport'' sometime. Dr. Crandon asked him to visualize
Zattere 559, Count Bon's house in Venic€. ..Walter gave his im-
pressions of the Venice group, speaking of one of the sitters as
having something to do (professionally) with "nerves" ("Dr. C."
a neurologist1). Walter described him as a fat man who ch€wed
· his lip as if he himself were nervous. Walter remarked that he
would get something across in Italy.
5 :19 P .M. At Walter's direction Mr. Bond took back the first
of the calendar lMves, Walter having apparently read it, and
handed up fortuitously a second leaf, which he laid on the table-top.
5:20 P.M. At Mr. Bond's request, Walter gave the time as
5 :20. He then left the circle for about one minut€.
5:22 P.M. (about.) At Walter's instruction, Mr. Bond took
th€ second leaf, as if read, from the table and replaced it in his
pocket with the first, keeping them in separate series from the
rest, in his waistcoat pocket. Walter remarked that one leaf had
fallen on the floor. Mr. Bond groped for this without success.
He then asked Walter if he were ready to take the third leaf,
and he laid this on the table.
Walter: "Isn't he a slavedriver! Take his tea away from
him or I'll make him throw it up." (This is a delicate allusion
to the cup of tea which Mr. Bond, English fashion, had had before
the sitting.) At this point strong breezes were felt by most of
the sitters. A heavy slamming as of a door outsid€ was heard
by all, and was commented upon. Walter admitted that it was
his doing saying ''Yes, there was too much light'' : then, in response
to some remark ''My goodness, are you deaf ?'' followed by a
loud bang, as if the tabl€ had been struck by some hard and heavy
object.
Walter now requested Mr. Bond to take back the third sheet
and to place it in his waistcoat pocket with the other two. He
desired that Mrs. Gray should enter the eire!€. Walter said ''I
have an X-ray shot for you." He sent a strong current of energy
across the circle to Mrs. Gray and this was felt by several sitters
as a brisk current of air such as might be produced by a fan.
Walrer ·declared that John Richardson (one of his reg·ular
helpers) was over in Italy upon his work. Dr. Crandon questioned
Walter as to his prediction of the business to be arranged and
asked if it referred to this. Walter said "Yes, we'd known of
it for clays." Mr. Bond said he had record€d the prediction as
made on May 2nd.
Walter: "Yes, and there's another coming. This is only a
trial tonig·ht and their horse is winded-spavined.''
Mr. Bligh Bond: ''Walter, there has been an outburst of
bell-ringing at our Pride's Crossing house. Can you rell me any-
thing about it ?''
THE BOS'l'ON-VENICE CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE 767
Walter : ''Yes, the house is haunted.'' Walter declined to say
more and added: ''Now I want you people to stay together for
half an hour: and don't you make a date. Leave it to me. Now
I'm going. Good night!"
Four raps were heard, this being the recognized signal for
the conclusion of a sitting. The time taken as 5:45. 'This syn-
ch?"Onizes exactly with the time at which the luminous clock was
lifteel and shown to each sitter in Venice, indicating the time
there as 11:45 p.m.
The sitters at Boston remained together as instructed for
the space of half an hour. As soon as the red light was turned
on, Mrs. Richardson found two calendar-leaves upon the floor
lying where Mr. Bond had inadvertently dropped them. She
took charge of them. Mrs. Richardson remained close by Mr.
Bond from this moment until all were assembled in the library
on the floor below, so that she is able to affirm definitely that
there was no interval during which the papers held by him
could have been referred or their content communicated to the
medium or to any other person present. The three leaves read
by ·walter remained undisturbed in Mr. Bond's pocket until .
Margery had written out their numbers at the subsequent
sitting the same night in the book-room in white light.
RECORD OF LATER SITTING OF MAY 27
At 9 P .M . all sitters present in the library whither they had
adjourned after the interval prescribed by Walter. Margery
was seated at a small table, provided with pencil and paper,
and in full light wrote, as follows, a message signed by ·walter's
initials, \¥ . S. S.
"Sitting·: Venice-Valiantine very subdued, without spats;
much chattering; no silence; I think, Lord's Prayer, anyhow,
everyone looks kindly except Count Bon, whose moustache bristles;
much more gibberish; kindly thoughts. I do not understand; much
more talk; finally Valiantine tln·ows Italian fit; keeps well in fit,
as I direct. Writes : 3-5-10.
All is over. Much food and drink. Valiantine resumes spats
and rows home! More later. Next sitting Thursday night.
W. S. S."
(Finished at 9:05 P.M.)
768 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The three calendar sheets were taken by Mr. Bond from his
waistcoat pocket and inspected by all present. 'They proved to
be a 3, a 5 and a 10, viz., Sunday 5th May; Friday 3rd May and
Friday :Wth May. Each bore on its back the signature of Mr.
Bond written prior to the experiment.
Four further calendar sheets remained undisturbed in the
envelope in which Mr. Bond had originally placed them, in the
interior pocket of his coat. They were not exhibited to any
sitter and since they were not used, they attracted no attention.
LETTER: BosToN TO VENICE
Here follows the exact text of the letter sent by the Margery-
Boston group to the Bon-Venice group.
10 Lime Street,
Boston, Mass.
May.27, 1929.
''At the sitting held at 10 Lime Street, Boston, Mass., at 5 :11
P.M. (daylight saving) on the 27th May, 1929, in absolute darkness
from start to finish, the above three sheets from a Desk Calendar,
numbered 3, 5 & 10~ were chosen by Mr. F. Bligh Bond fortuitously
from a total of nine such sheets whose numbers were not known to
him, and were handed in the dark by Mr. Bond to 'Walter' one
by one, at his .request, and then returned to Mr. Bond who held
them unseen by himself or any other person until 9 :05 P.M.
Margery sat in bright light for the writing, but was securely
blind-folded, and she completed the script at 9 :05 P.M. These three
selected numbers were then produced by Mr. Bond from his envelope
and were found to be correct.
Each numbered sheet has Mr. Bond's private mark on back
(attached by him before the experiments). The other six sheets
not selected were then found to be ~-4-9-13-22 and 24. Each of the
sheets were found to have Mr. Bond's mark of identification.''
(Signed) JOSEPHINE L. RICHARDSON
MARK w. RICHARDSON
J. FRED ADLER
FRANCES N. GRAY
L. R. G. CRANDON
FRED BLIGH BOND
SuMMARY OF LETTERS: VENICE TO BosToN
The full account of this is printed in "Luce e Ombra" for
August, 1929, p. 3'37, by Count Bon, under the title "un esperi-
'rFIE BOSTON-VENICE CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE 769
mento eli communicazional medianiche attraverso l 'Atlantica.''
It records that the sitting of May 27th opened at his house at
9:30, there being present Mrs. B. Vais-Arbib of Venice; Com-
mander S. Bellavits of Rome; Mrs. Kelley-Hack of New York;
Mr. Oscar Cosma of Venice; Mrs. Dennis Bradley of London;
Capt. G. Rodano; Admiral Z--; Signora Valle of Venice and
Count Bon. Three others sat in an adjoining room curtained
off. George Valiantine was seated in the center of the· circle.
Direct voice phenomena were continuous until about 11 P .M. at
which time the commencement of the cross-correspondences was
due to start by arrangement with Dr. Crandon. A shrill whistle
· announced the presence of Walter. His manifestation outside
his own Boston circle is a novelty. A luminous clock which
had been placed in the center of the circle at the request of
the control "Cristo d 'Angelo" was carried around the circle
and shown to each sitter the time being noted as 11 :45 P.M.
The sitters heard the sound of the mechanism which controlled
the hands, and it was shown again with the time altered to
11 :15 P .M. Valiantine asked that the red light might be turned
on and after a brief interval, walked from his chair to a small
table on which paper and pencil had been placed. He then asked
for the blue light instead of the red one and ·when this was done,
he wrote upon the paper the three numbers 3. 5. 10 repeating
each two or three times. These he handed to Dr. Bon. The
sitting then closed, on the stroke of twelve. The sitters then
partook of refreshments (see remarks of \Valter already
recorded).
EvENTS AT BosTON MAY 28TH ('J.luESDAY) AND FoLLOWING DAYS
On May 28th Dr. Crandon cabled to Venice as follows:
"Kindly arrange second seance nmrsday, May 30th, at same
time. Record accurately time of each event. Mail report immedi-
ately. We do same. Yesterday's resu,lts apparently perfect."
A second sitting of the same group which sat on the 27th
May had been planned to take place on the evening of May 30th
to synchronize with that of Count Bon. But about noon on
770 1\II..A.RGERY lVIEDIUMSHIP
that day Marg-ery felt the impulse to write automatically and
her hand wrote the following-:
"Do not sit until six o'clock. Lines of communication poor.
No cross-test needed. Sit only four persons-hour only.
"Walter in Europe trying· lines of communication. Will only
send word 0. K. from Valiantine. Want force. Only Dudley,
Father: No women to sit. (Signed) M. R.-(this means Mark
Richardson, Walter's helper, Dr. Richardson's son.)
"This is Mark writing. Walter says: 'Four men sitters.' He
will explain later on, I think. I will find out and write it later
on-Walter says Mr. Adler will do. He just wants the energy from
the room and the medium. He says 'Cheerio,-big things will
happen soon'."
Promptly at 6 P.M. (Boston time) Dr. Richardson, Mr. Dudley,
Mr. Adler, Dr. Crandon and the psychic sat. The room was entirely
dark. Young Mark Richardson quickly made his presence known
by raps. He said that Walter was in Venice and that we were
sitting merely to transmit the energy stored in the room, to uses
of the experiment. At a certain moment Dr. Richardson, despite
the blackness of the room had the impression of the rapid transit
of a still blacker mass in front of his eyes. rrhis was immediately
followed by the ''walter'' voice saying : ' 'you certainly look like
a nest of foreigners." This probably referred to the fact that
the men were all in their shirtsleeves. The sitting closed at 6 :22
P.M., no apparent phenomena having taken place.
We now turn to events at Venice. Following the receipt of
Dr: Crandon's cableg-ram, it had been arranged that the Venice
circle should meet on the evening of the 30th. But, most un-
fortunately, their medium, Georg-e Valiantine, had to leav·e
Venice and could not be present at the test. Walter, it appears,
had become aware of this and of t4e difficulty it would create
for him; hence the impressing of Margery to write that the
"lines of communication were poor" and that extra power
would be needed. Note also that he suggested that there would
be no cross-test required. It seems that he had already acquired
the material for his purpose; but this no one suspected or could
have suspected. Yet out of an apparently irrelevant or imma-
terial circumstance he succeeded in producing a success even
mo-re impressive than the first, and under disadvantage of hav-
ing to find a new channel of communication throug-h the absence
of Georg-e Valiantine.
. THE BOSTON-VENICE CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE 771
Valiantine had left Venice at 7 P.M. Dr. Bon's group sat at
9 :30 P.M. at his house. Mrs. Kelley-Hack sat ori his right and
Signora Valle on his left. The sitters included Contessine Bona
Bon, Signor Rodono, Contessine Nora Bon, Signor Curti, and
Commander Bellavista. Miss Valle went into partial trance, be-
coming clairaudient and writing what she heard. It was to counsel
patience, ''as the forces were good.'' Mrs. Kelley-Hack spoke of
a feeling of tremendous force being exercised upon her. She was
provided with a pad and pencil and began to write occasionally
when impressed to do so between 10 :30 and 11 :30 P.M. She re-
ceived a number of fragmentary sentences in automatic script; and
then words and numbers; the numerals repeated again and again,
and always the same three-namely, 4. 2. 9.
'fhese numerals were reiterated a score of times, interspersed
with the words "Carry on! carry on "-written excitedly. This
conveyed nothing to the sitters, some of whom were impatient and
remarked that nothing would come of it, etc., etc. Mrs. Hack
then explained to her g·uides that Valiantine had been obliged to
leave, and she asked them to try if possible to impress her with
something if Walter should come. Then she again got:
"429. Carry on 429. Carry on Walter-
Walter-Walter."
"We are coming" (this was her guides' usual sign when bring-
ing in any entity).
"The current is better-carry on-listen 429 (written large)
429-429-Let this stand. It may be right. Tell the Count to
turn on the red light" (this was the sign made to betoken the
coming of someone).
"Walter is coming--429-They are making an effort-Amer-
ica-Margery has gone into trance-writing-we shall try to hear."
Mrs. Hack again explained Valiantine 's departure and asked that
some impression might be given her even if Walter should be
unable to speak by direct voice. She then got :
Walter-249-249. Here there was a change in "current" and
the guide wrote in Italian "Cristo d 'Angelo vole parlare ma non
a fuerze-quiste prediction-nota-. (Cristo d 'Angelo wants to
.speak but has not the power. This is prediction. Note (it)." The
reel light was turned up, and Signora Valle recorded impression
received by her from Count Bon's guide "Nanna" whilst in light
trance. Nanna had said repeatedly "Wait-wait-the forces are
good.'' This she wrote, finishing a few minutes after 11 P.M.
'fhe sitting was suspended at 11 :30, and then an attempt was
made to obtain further information by the use of a g·lass moving
over letters on a large sheet of paper. The result confirmed the
claim that the numbers had been transmitted from Boston. Nonna
said she was about all the time and that three numbers had been
transmitted but in answer to Count Bon's question as to whether
772 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
Walter had suggested these numbers, she said "No," and that
they had been transmitted by her force. Count Bon asked who
sent them, since Walter did not come from America ~ Was it
Margery ~ Nanna gave the reply ''You say truth.'' Mrs. Hack
observes at the end of her report of this sitting that it is unlikely
that the numbers are correct, but she was :trongly impressed with
the force exercised and the eff:ort made. Count Bon says in his
r eport "I confess that we were all, including Mrs. Hack, a little
sceptical as to the results of the automatic writing." It was, he
says, with a natural uneasiness that the cabled report from Boston
which would indicate the outcome of the test was awaited by them.
And of course when it came, it mer ely reported what Margery
had got on the afternoon of t hat day with the directions. for the
sitting "for force" only.
It may be as well to interpose here a few remarks upon
Walter's movements and activities during the progress of the
work recorded. As we have seen, the Venice record of May
30th gives the expectation of ·walter's coming in person; but
when the question is put to Nonna, she implies that Walter
did not transmit the numbers himself and leaves it an open
question how far the mechanism of transmission was due to
his personal effort at the moment in the direction perhaps of
the forces employed. Mrs. Hack, writing to Dr. and Mrs. Cran-
don on the first of June speaks of her amazement at hearing
the direct voice of \Valter in the Valiantine sittings (date not
specified) with greetings and news of Margery. She also says
it was vValter who regulated the hands of the clock and carried
it around the circle. It is clear that she refers to the sitting
of May 30th. And she says that all the group are in fullest
accord as to the phenomenon of vValter 's voice, which was full,
strong and natural. But even so, it is not necessary to suppose
that he was present because he has often hinted at a possibility,
or even an actuality of some process of "relaying" his com-
munications in a manner analogous to the radio. ~his point
emerged in the automatic writing obtained by Margery at sit-
tings some months before. Here Walter spontaneously said
·that he was relaying for J-ohannes, the monk of Glastonbury,
and the writing of Johannes came through in the cramped style
THE BOSTON-VENICE CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE 773
of caligraphy which was characteristic of Johannes and utterly
unlike Walter's style.
Walter, we may suppose, is busy with his lines of communi-
cation, but without any great stretch of imagination it may
be conceived that he has power to use those lines without the
effort of traveling always to the scene of operations. Let us
consider what Walter said to Mr. Dudley at a sitting held in
Boston shortly after these events. (The present writer was
not present.) In response to questions, says Mr. Dudley, Wal-
ter said ''I put the second lot of numbers across before the
seance was held here. I had used up all my energy and couldn't
get back until you had a sitting. I didn't have the energy.
Mark wrote the instructions for the sitting. I didn't come back
here at all between the first and second seances.'' He also stated
that he had not signed his name at the second Venice test.
" Therefore," remarks Mr. Dudley, "it seems clear that he
merely succeeded in getting over the numbers-a sufficiently
remarkable feat in itself.''
It may be reasonable to suppose Walter presiding over the
general process of transmission and controlling his subordinates
at either end of the lines of communication which he describes
as having been laid down. .
'There is another point I would like to take up before pro-
ceeding to the end of the story. It refers to the interval of
time which is found to elapse between the transmission of the
numbers from the Boston end and their reception at Venice. It
is a matter of a few minutes, as it seems to have been in the
earlier experiments between Boston, New York and Buffalo. ·
And Walter declares that the time absorbed in transmission is
not taken in traversing the lines of communication, but m
getting the numbers into the brain of the recipient.
The sequel to Mrs. Kelley-Hack's persistent impression of
the number series 4, 2, 9, and later 2, 4, 9, remains now to be
told.. First however come a few items occurring in the interval
of time between the sittings of May 30 and the receipt of the
attested records from Venice.
774 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
On June 1st a cable was despatched from Count Bon which
reads as follows:
"Monday Walter magnificent work. Valiantine got numbers.
Leaving Thursday. Same evening we got numbers. Letter
follows.''
There bad been a further sitting held at Lime Street on the
evening of May 31st at which the following sitters were present.
(Clockwise) Medium: Judge Gray (controlling left); Dr. Richard-
son; Mrs. Richardson; Mr. Dudley; Mr. Bligh Bond; Mrs. Gray;
Dr. Crandon (controlling light).
8 :58 P.M. Lights out. Room effectively darkened and tem-
perature more moderate than had been the case for the past few
days.
9 P .M. Psychic breezes felt. Walter spoke. "What are you
people doing here~" Dr. Crandon said "Have you any, news~ Is
Veniee all right 1' '
Walter : ''I have had a terrible time but everything
is all right. You leave it to me." (To Mrs. Gray) : "Now about
that 'apport' for you, cousin. I have been searching for three
weeks for this old thing·. I said it wotud be a bicycle tire; but
it's flat, and as old as the centuries Cousin, you're a
perfectly well woman as well as a horse-and not a
spavined one either ! ''
Judge G.: "Walter, we don't know how to thank you for what
you have done.''
Walter: "Don't thank me. It has been all in my line of duty,
as it was with Dr. Richardson.* Look at him; he's quite frisky
now . . . Now, you wait till you see what I have brought
you. Your mother helped me to get it. She stole it for me. She's
a fine stealer. But it ain't here yet.''
Dr. C.: "Walter, can you tell us what the room in Venice was
like 7"
Walter: "Oh, just a large bare room with a table-a big table
in the middle. I think they had some gas lights. Chief, will you
please fetch the doughnut?'' (luminous paper ring) .
(Here Dr. Richardson left the room and returned with the illu-
minated doughnut, which he placed on the table with the duller
side upward.)
Walter: "Now please relax. I'm going away for a little while."
VERIFICATION OF THE NuMBERS 2. 4. 9. OBTAINED BY MRs. HAcK
Subsequently to the sitting at Boston of the 27th of May,
at which, it will be remembered, the three numbers 3. 5. and 10.
*Dr. Richardson had gone through a cl'itical illness and operation with notable
celerity and success.
THE BOSTON~VENICE CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE 775
were successfully read by ·walter, recorded by the hand of
Margery, and transmitted to Venice correctly, the remainder
of the calendar leaves, six in all, were held in part by Mrs.
Richardson who had picked two which had fallen to the floor
during the seance, and the rest by Mr. Bligh Bonc1. All six
were subsequently collected by Mr. Bond and it is certain that
none of them were seen by the medium. For purpose of record,
Mr. Bond gave Dr. Crandon a memorandum of the numbers
they exhibited. The whole series ran thus, in the order as noted
at thetime.
3.5. 10. 2.4. 9. 13. 22. 24.
It was just as a detail of record, an~l not with the least idea
or expectation that any further test might come of this, that
Mr. Bond brought these additional numbers to the attention
of Dr:'Crandon. With the departure of Valiantine the episode
vms thought to be closed. But on receipt of the intelligence
....--/from Venice as to the further sitting and Mrs. Kelley-Hack's
curious impressions, Dr. Crandon bethought him of the note
made as to the additional numbers. (See the record attested
by sitters after the meeting.) Mrs. Richardson presumably
may have noted the numbers on the two which she picked up
from the fioor; but it is doubtful whether she would have re-
garded these as being of any importance after the event. They
:finally were returned to Mr. Bond who replaced them in his
envelope with the rest and there they remained. But on the
arrival of the further news from Venice, Dr. Crandon discovered
that the numbers obtained by her were actually those of the
three next unused leaves, recorded by Mr. Bond in the order
2. 4. 9., etc.
And to balance his satisfaction, Count Bon, who had experi-
enced a severe sense of disillusionment on receipt of the first
intelligence of the sitting of the 30th of May at Boston-which
of course, contributed nothing as an endorsement of Mrs. Hack's
experience-was more than pleased to learn fr.om the letter
subsequently received from Dr. Crandon, that-to quote Count
776 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Bon's own words-Walter had succeeded in transmitting six
of these nine numbers, in two groups of three. He says "Wal-
ter, therefore, without those in Boston having the least idea
()fit . . which gives the experiment a very much greater
:Significance-had transmitted to us in Venice at our second
sitting, three other of the numbers previously provided at
Boston at the former sitting.''
CHAPTER LIX
Cross Correspondences. Transmitted matter selected in absence of
all mediums.
We now return to an important modification in experimental
procedure-namely thought-transference of material cognized
in the seance room at Lime Street-Margery being absent. As
a beginning let us return to the experiment of January 29,
192S, where Walter by two raps in the seance room (Margery
having gone down stairs) indicated the chosen number to be
written by Margery in the book room on the second floor.
ExPERIMENT OF JANUARY 29, 1928
_..,-This sitting began at 9:00 o'clock, and there were present,
·n clockwise order as named: Margery, Dr. Brown, Mrs. Anna
/ Moody, of New York, Mr. J. H. Brown, Mr. Adler, Mr. Ernest
A. Moody (Mrs. Moody's son), Mrs. E. W. Brown, D1•. Crandon.
To eliminate all possibility of knowledge as to the positions
of the numbers, Mr. Moody shuffled the thirty-one loosened
calendar sheets, not only before the sitting but again in the
dark after the sitting had commenced. The record was also
improved, indicating more satisfactorily than in any previous
experiment exactly what happened to the ensemble of sheets
at the critical moment of seance-room selection. Finally Dr.
Crandon was eliminated from the upstairs post-seance portion
of the experiment, the two sitters remaining in the seance-room
being Dr. BroiVI1 and Mr. Brown. As before, of course, each
held the other's hands. Under all these tightened conditions
the following record was attained :
''.At 9 :28 the words: 'I will write 2' were written automatically
by Margery in the bookroom. .At 9 :29 Dr. E. W. Brown and
Mr. J. H. Brown, sitting together with no one else present, in the
dark seance-room up two flights, heard two raps on the table.
"During the sitting, Walter picked out a calendar number
in the dark, and handed to Mr. Ernest .A. Moody the shuffled pack
777
778 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of thirty-one sheets, with his selected number on top. Mr. Moody
put the pack in his pocket with this number on top. The numbers
had been shuffled before the seance by Mr. Moody, and this fact
·was not lmovvn to Margery.
''After the two announcements of the number '2' were made
as above, Mr. Moody produced the number-pack and the top num-
ber was '2'. ''
(Signed) L. R. G. CRANDON
E. W. BROWN
ERNEST A. MooDY
ANNA MooDY
J. H. BROWN
J. FRED ADLER
\iVith this experiment as a basis vValter proposed that Mar-
gery's presence in the seance room be dispensed with; that she,
like other mediums should sit at a distance, and should like
them receive impressions, presumably hypnotically, as to events
or material, under consideration at Lime Street. After con-
siderable preliminary work a perfect experiment of this type
was carried out as follows, on February 25, 1'9'28. Walter's
directions were that employees of Mr. Fife were to provide
a pack of cards 1vith a word on each in large letters. Each
card ·was to be made up by a separate man, given to Mr. Fife
in a sealed envelope, and these envelopes turned over to Mr.
Dudley by Mr. Fife; the net result of this manipulation being
that no living person would know the contents of more than
one of the envelopes. The clerks who made up the cards were
of course in total ignorance of their intended purpose; they
simply carried out blindly their superior's instructions. In
the dark seance room Dudley was to shuffle the cards from
the envelopes; Mr. Fife was to select one at random; and
this was to be handed at once to Mrs. Richardson, who was
to place it away in her pocket book. All this was to be done
in the seance-room in Margery's absence, the "sitters" includ-
ino· Mrs. Richardson, Dr. Brown, :Nir. Dudley and ~i[r. Fife.
They were instructed by vValter to form a circle, with Dudley
facing the cabinet, Brown on its left and Mr. Fife on its
right. "Don't get excited if you don't get it through this time;
we may have to try again.''
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 779
While all this was going on in Lime .Street, Margery was
instructed to sit at some other house with Drs. Richardson
and Crandon and as many others as cared to come, all in bright
light. The card in Mrs. Richardson's possession was n,ot to
be looked at until both New York and iagara Falls had been
heard from.
ExPERIMENT OF FEBRUARY 25, 1928
The mediumless sitting held in Lime .Street in accordance
with the above instructions, on February 25th, may be described
here first. The notes of this sitting are by Mr. Dudley. No
one was in the cabinet. The table ·was turned at right angles
to its usual position, and a complete circle formed about it;
Dr. Brown at the west (at the left of the imaginary medium
in the cabinet), then in clockwise order Mr. Dudley, Mrs. Rich-
ardson and Mr. Fife. Mr. Fife and the Doctor were easily
~le to clasp hands across the narrow end of the table where
·this abutted the empty cabinet; this ·was the reason for
reversing its usual position. The box brought by Mr. Fife
and, in the properly cautious words of Mr. Dudley's record,
-"said by him to contain" twelve cards with printed names
thereon, and some with pictures as well, was placed on the
table. Mrs. Richardson's leather pocket book was carefully
searched before the sitting by Messrs. Fife and Brown; and
in addition, Mr. Fife testified, after the sitting, that prior
to distributing the blank cards among his employees, he had
placed secret marks upon them of such sort as to render them
absolutely identifiable. Explanation of a successful outcome
through the alleged confederacy of Mrs. Richardson by means
of substituting a previously prepared card, known to the
medium, is thus ruled out.
All the motions of a regular seance "''~ere faithfully per-
formed. The lights were extinguished and the victrola started.
After about five minutes the victrola stopped and Fife tried
in vain to get it running again. While he worked over it the
circle was closed by contact between Dr. Brown and Mrs. Rich-
ardson; and Dr. Brown here noted that whereas his right hand
780 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
was warm when in contact with Fife's left hand, it was decidedly
cold when in contact with Mrs. Richardson's. His left hand,
in contact with Dudley's right, had felt cold from the beginning.
Fife returned to the circle after about two minutes; and in
about three minutes more, Dudley broke the circle but not the
control while he picked up the box, shook it thoroughly, opened
the cover, and presented it to Fife who drew one card. All
this of course was in total darkness. The box was then closed
and placed by Dudley against the right side of his chair, in such
manner as to remain continuously under his control, and closed.
Fife then said he was holding the card between his thumb
and finger in vertical position. After about five seconds he
turned it over and held it in the new position for about six
seconds, both times in the vicinity of the center of the table.
He luid drawn the card from the box with his left hand, his
right hand being continuously under Brown's control. --......_fife
then passed the card to Mrs. Richardson, who, in taking it, fe11
;
something pasted on one side of it. Without exploring the'·,
surface more than was necessary to di~cover that this was the
right side, she held it with this side up and approximately in
the center of the table for some six or seven minutes. Just as -
she was about to put it away in her pocket book the three other
sitters heard a slight sound like a whisper or an attempt to
whistle; after which, almost at once, all four sitters heard seven
distinct raps, uniformly spaced about one-half to three-quarters
second apart and apparently originating within the cabinet.
These raps were of peculiar quality, not like a finger or finger-
nail, but rather resembling minute explosions. They were per-
fectly clear and sufficiently loud for all to hear. To Mrs. Rich-
ardson and Dudley they appeared to come from a point near
the northeast corner of the table; Brown placed them further
in the cabinet but in the same general direction; to Fife they
seemed in the cabinet but to the west. Subsequent experiments
showed that if they had occmTed on the right arm of the chair
usually occupied by the medium, they would have led to approxi--
mately the above reports from these four sitters, seated as
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 781
they were here; and no other locus was found of which this
was true.
Mrs. Richardson put the card away in her pocket book im-
mediately after these raps were heard. All the sitters agreed
that the raps were seven in number. Less than ten minutes
later the clock struck 9 :30.
The sitting was continued until ten o'clock without further
incident; at which time the red light was turned on, the positions
of chair and table were noted, and Brown took charge of the
box while Mrs. Richardson retained control of her pocket book
as she had throughout the sitting. All four then went down-
stairs to the bookroom. The seance-room .door was locked by
Brown at the start of the sitting and remained locked through-
out.
So much for the events in Lime Street. Dr. Richardson,
Dr. Crandon, Margery, Mr. Litzelmann, Mr. Adler and Miss
Harriet Richardson left 10 Lime Street by motor at approxi-
/' ~ately 8 :30. During this interval they went to the Richardson
residence in Newton Centre, sat, and drove back to Boston.
Their sitting started at 9:00 o'clock, and they sat in bright
white light, not in the conventional circle, Miss Marian Richard-
son being added to the sitters just enumerated. Margery had
a pencil in her hand and a pad before her. At 9·:2·5 her writing
hand became cold, both subjectively and objectively. At 9:46
she felt impelled to ask Dr. Richardson for his watch. It was
one with closed case and she rejected it. Mr. Litzelmann offered
his, with open case; Margery said she liked it better but it
wasn't right.
At 9:48 she began to draw what looked like the face of a
watch. There were no letters on it, but a lot of small circles
in two layers inside the edge, and the hands were placed at
2 :55 or 11 :15, no choice between these two readings being pos-
sible because of the failure to discriminate between their lengths.
She did not put the usual ring on the stem. The pencil then
began to g'o around and around the periphery of the "watch,"
and finally stopped. Mr. Adler r'emarked that we should have
782 MARGERY lVIEDIUMSHIP
counted the number of times the pencil went around; whereupon
it repeated the performance, making seven circuits. Margery
then wrote "T H" in large (not capital) letters under the
watch; the :finished drawing (without the annexed script) being
as indicated in Fig. 3.
FIG. 3.
At 9:54 this :first sheet was torn off the block of paper by
Margery, and she began to write on the second sheet. The
:finished script here was found to read:
"This is confidential. All is not time that titters. W. S. S.4
You will put this away and produce it later when things are
settled. You will understand. ''
At 9:57% she went back to the :first sheet and wrote "7
raps''; then at 9:58 she returned to the second sheet and wrote
the same addendum on it. This closed the Newton Centre
seance.
Although the box was not opened in Lime Street until after
New York had reported, it seems best to describe its contents
now. Before it was opened and after the return of the party
from Newton Centre, of course, the two groups compared notes.
The Lime Street group told their experiences :first, announcing
the seven raps which they had heard, etc. Margery's sheets
4 Walter S. Stinson.
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 785
or in part and in its more essential features to Margery, eight
miles from the original; to Valiantine 2~0 miles away; and to
Hardwicke 500 miles away. With reference to the accompany-
ing word, the number of letters therein became known to some
entity at Lime Street who was able to give audible expression
of his knowledge; and also to Margery. The word itself, when
an attempt was made to reproduce it piece-meal in the three
s€ance-rooms, was given with complete success so far as
Valiantine's and Margery's fractions were concerned; and
Hardwicke spoke a word having the same fundamental con-
sonant value as the syllable which he should have given.
FIG. 6.
The '' Golfskor'' is a newly developed mechanism for keep-
ing track of the hole-by-hole golf score and the total for the
round. It has a series of 18 small openings in the face, in each
of which the hole score is shown, a pointer travelling around
the edge of the dial to show which hole is in play, and three
holes on a horizontal line across the center of the dial. The
cut used is shaded and is a coarse half-tone. It is so difficult
to decipher that even in a strong light one would, at first glance,
tend to describe the picture as that of a watch with the hands
pointing to 2 :55 or to 8 :55. The black pointer near the edge
of the dial and the line of holes across the center, together
with certain shadow effects, have a strong tendency to .create
this illusion. If the time is indicated at 2:55 the angle would be
"oblique." (See HardWicke's telegram.) The entire cut has
786 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
had to be retouched for reproduction here, and so looks better
than on the cutting used in the seance room.
Margery's drawing of this device shows quite clearly that it
is not exactly like a watch and it is such a well executed draw-
ing that one would naturally expect to see the details such as
hour figures and second-hand, on the drawing. Instead we
find the series of loops representing the 18 holes, no second-
hand, a heavy stem but no ring. All this, taken in connection
with the phrase, "All is not time that titters," and the informa-
tion that, "when things are settled you will understand," seems
to indicate that Walter knew that this was not a watch but was
some sort of a counter. This "Golfskor" is a very recent
development and no one in the group had seen one although
several had seen cuts and descriptions. It was several minutes
before anyone recognized it in the cut. Perhaps a part of this
delay as well as part of the mediumistic tendency to draw it
as a watch was due to the juxtaposition of the word "Waltham"
which is so readily associated with the idea of watches.
Careful study of this experiment brings out sharply the
fact that the component parts of the so-called Walter-Margery
entity have become widely separated, so much so, in fact, that
Walter practically stands on his own feet. Let us sketch briefly
the details :
(1) Walter plans the experiment.
(2) At Lime Street in Margery's' absence Walter sees in the
dark one of a dozen cards chosen at random and whose character
is unknown to any person concerned in the experiment. By
raps he indicates not only his physical presence in the seance-
room but also the correct number of letters in the word-
Waltham.
(3) Like the skillful ringmaster at the circus Walter then
impresses coincidently the idea of a Waltham watchlike instru-
ment upon three different mediums (a) Margery (unentranced),
8 miles away; (b) Valiantine 240 miles away and (c) Hard-
wicke (entranced) 500 miles away. In other words Margery
has been removed from any participation as an agent or sender,
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 783
of writing from Newton Centre were then displayed; and in
due time Mrs. Richardson took from her bag the card that
had been selected in the dark by Mr. Fife. This card had
pasted on it a cutting of what :first appeared to be a watch,
but turned out to be a new watch-like device for keeping golf
scores. It had no ring on its handle. Some of the little dials
were blacker than others, giving the rough general appearance
of hands in the 2 :55 position when viewed from a distance.
FIG. 4.
Under the figure was pasted the complete word \Valtham.
The reader may refer to Fig. 4 for an exact representation.
The other cards were examined, and none were in any sense
duplicates of this one.
It will be seen that Margery has given a satisfactory repro-
duction of the material on the card, so far as the pictorial
element is concerned; and that in the letters '' TH'' she has
given her approximate fair third of the word beneath. If the
entire experiment is to be carried to a successful end in this
spirit we shall hope that Valiantine and Hardwicke will each
produce a recognizable sketch of the scorer, and that one "\Vill
784 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
write "vVAL" while the other will complete the word with
''AM.'' We shall also hope that each of them will write ''seven
raps'' or give some other indication of the association between
the number seven and the Lime Street part of the sitting;
though this factor being susceptible of pre-arrangement if, we
waive the question of how the raps were produced during the
seance, and ignore the coincidence between the number of the
ral:lS and of the letters in "vValtham," is not so important as
the others. ·
At about 10:55 a telephone message was received from
Hyslop House, Mrs. Cannon speaking. She said in effect that
FIG. 5.
Valiantine had written the letters "WAL" and below them had
drawn the face of a watch with hands about 9 :55. (See Fig. 5.)
She made the further and very significant report that \Valter,
speaking through Valiantine, had said: "I'm having the very
·devil of a time with Hardwicke. ''
At about 11 :30 a telegram was telephoned in to Lime Street,
from Dr. Harcl1v.icke at Niagara Falls. It read as follows,
correcting the operator's error in spelling the word oblique:
"Circle enclosing oblique angle. Word MINE." It developed
later that the word had been spoken rather than written,
with Hardwicke in trance. His drawing is reproduced in Fig. 6.
It thus appears that a drawing selected at random and
normally unknown to any living person became known in whole
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 787
and has become, like the other two mediums, simply a recipient
of impressions. Her impressions are, to be sure, more accurate
than those of the other two mediums but they are similar in
type.
In this connection it is interesting to note that Walter com-
plained a little about the '' Golfskor.'' It looked like a watch
and had "Waltham" under it. Therefore, in his desire for
speed he had transmitted the idea of a watch to New York
and Niagara Falls before he noted his mistake. It was then
too late, the result being "watch" impressions by Valiantine
and Hardwicke. Very apropos is Walter's remark through
Margery, ''All is not time that titters.''
If, now, on the other hand we insist upon Margery's active
participation in this cross-correspondence we must postulate
that (a) Margery-Walter, with no trance immediate or proced-
ing, and with no consciousness of the condition, becomes ''travel-
ing;:cl.airvoyant" to Lime Street, (b) sees in the dark the card
cllosen by Mr. Fife and (c) still without conscious effort
__./-by the normal waking Margery transmits portions of the in-
scription on the chosen card telepathically to Valiantine in New
York and Hardwicke in Niagara Falls. This seems to me a
more difficult explanation than the alternative, and one involv-
ing more assumptions and more dangerous ones. And certainly
if we look at the present experiment from the viewpoint of
any hypothesis of fraud, the difficulty of maintaining such a
hypothesis becomes greater than in any previous performance
by Walter. We have real hopes that skeptics who have found
themselves unconvinced by any of the physical phenomena may
regard this and the ensuing demonstrations as impossible of
inclusion in the picture of fraud, an<;~. as therefore necessarily ·
genuine.
A second experiment of this ·type and one, if possible, more
brilliant in execution follows :
ExPERIMENT OF MARcH 3, 1928
This experiment was carried through under conditions prac-
tically identical with those of February 25, 1928, there being
788 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
four groups concerned: (1) at 10 Lime Street, Boston, with no
medium; (2) at 70 Chestnut Street, Boston, with Margery
present but without trance; (3) with Valiantine in New York
(trance); (4) with Hardwicke in Niagara Falls (trance).
In Lime Street, about 9 P.M. the following committee went
up to the usual seance-room: Mr. Fife, Mr. J. H. Brown,
Mr. Dudley, Mrs. Richardson, Mr. A. R. Crawford (Chicago
University), Dr. E. W. Brown. They made a complete circle,
Fife and Dr. Brown being adjacent to the east and west wings
of the cabinet. There was no medium p1·esent. The door was
closed and locked by Dr. Brown. The lights were out and the
phonograph going, as for a seance.
Mr. Fife had brought a new collection of cards which
had been prepared at his establishment, individual clerks having
each pasted a single advertisement on a separate card. The
cards were then put into a box at the Head Clerk's office, not
"--
looked at by him, and then delivered, sealed, to Mr. Fife.
Mr. Fife handed the box to Mr. J. H. Brown who kept it _
in his hands, in sight of all, till the committee entered the seance- '-·
room. No one person, therefore, in the world knew all the
cards in the box, and the only person to know a particular card ·
was the one who had made it. In each instance, that one person
was an unknown clerk, who had no knowledge as to the purpose
for which the card was made. The notes of the sitting were
drawn by Mr. Dudley.
J. H. Brown had charge of the box of cards. He removed
the paper covering just before the lights were turned off and
then sat with the covered box on his knees. The circle was
formed and almost at once the right hands of J. H. B., E. B.
and D. felt cold. This was followed by reports of ''cold breezes''
from the cabinet by Fife and E. B.
At approximately 9:10 J. H. B. shook the box in order to
mix the cards, removed the cover, and Fife drew one card. He
held this in his :fingers for a few seconds and then passed it to
A. R. C. In the meantime J. H. B. closed the box and placed
it behind D., but in his chair so that it was wedged tightly in
place. A. R. C. held the card edge up, in the center of the table;
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 789
and while doing so he reported that his hand (the left) felt
icy cold,.that he had a pain in his chest, and that he felt slightly
dizzy. At approximately 9:15, or a little earlier, all in the
circle heard :five raps in the cabinet. They were distinct, spaced
about one second apart and there seemed to be a slight hesita-
tion after the third rap. They were like the sounds made by
a tightly padded object on non-vibrant wood; not at all like
the sharp, explosive sounds of a week ago. All agreed as to
the number of raps, :five, and also as to their general location,
the east side of the cabinet.
In accordance with ·walter's instructions of March 1st,
A. R. C. then put the card in his case (a bill-fold witl1 snap
fastener) and placed this in an inside pocket. ·The circle was
broken only at the time of drawing the card and when A. R. C.
placed it in the bill-fold, and at those times only to the extent
that the operations made necessary. ·while A. R. C. held the
card~on the table with his left hand he was controlled at the
left shoulder by Mrs. Richardson.
The circle was broken at 10 o'clock; lights were given and
the door unlocked by Mrs. Richardson. Dudley took the box
of cards, none of which had been seen by any of the group save
that Mr. Fife had necessarily seen the blank backs while
marking them for identification with his thumbprint. The group
then proceeded together to the bookroom and waited reports
from the other places in which the experiment was being
prosecuted.
In Chestnut .Street, at nine o'clock, Margery sat in bright
light with no circle and no trance, quite as though for an or-
dinary social evening except that she had before her pencil and
paper. There were present, besides her and in no particular
order: Dr. Richardson, Dr.
. .Louis Arkin, Mr. and Mrs. E. D.
Millea, Mr. Fred. Adler, Mr. and Mrs. Carl Litzelmann, Mr.
and Mrs. Whitney, Mrs. Edith Baker, Mr. Norcross and Dr.
Crandon.
At 9:37, with no sign of trance, Margery began to write
and draw; and a complete description of what she produced
would be as follows:
790 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
A crude drawing of some cigarettes, three lighted and smok-
ing and four unlit; a rectilinear figure which she outlined twice
and which turned out in the end to be within a sixteenth-inch,
both ways, of the size of the fifteen cent Camel cigarette pack-
age; and the following script, in which the blank stands for a
humorous reference to Mr. Fife, the exact word employed being
deleted.
"Ha ha the joke is on - - - ; one of the letters has fallen
off the word.''
This script was on the first page, under the drawings; on a sec-
ond page she wrote three times the letters EL, very large,
together with the sentence:
''And I have found what I walked for.''
She then went on to three further pages of writing, as follows:
"John reports the Judge's foot is all right. Ask your friends
why they mix the animals. A rose by any other name would smell
as sweet. Ha-ha. It is as he said; the glue if'! bad. Hello and
good-bye. You will find the missing letter in the box. Atta boy.
W. S. S."
The script seems to require no illustration; the drawing
appears herewith as Fig. 7.
At ten o'clock the Chestnut Street group returned with Mar-
gery to Lime Street, where the Lime Street committee reported
to Dr. Richardson, before any other word was spoken by any-
body: "We got five raps."
At 10:15 Mr. Crawford produced the card which had been
selected upstairs in the absence of any medium. It was found
to carry on one side the identifying thumb-print of Mr.
Fife; and on the other was pasted a colored advertisement
representing a box of Camel Cigarettes. Out of the top of
the opened package in this picture protruded three cigarettes.
Superposed upon the upper portion of the Camel package was
pasted a picture of a small cat cut from another advertisement.
Pasted similarly across the bottom of the camel package was
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 791
a single piece of paper containing the letters C-A, wide apart;
and between them glue marks such as would have been left had
another piece been pasted here and fallen off. All this is shown
in Fig. 8, which is a direct photograph of the card. In addition,
in the bottom of the original large box containing all the cards
was found a loose letter T. No detailed arg'Ument need be made
nor parallel drawn to emphasize that this picture gives a mean-
ing to every detail of Margery's script.
''L.
FIG. 7.
At 1'0:316 P.M. there was received at 10 Lime Street the fol-
lowing telegram, dated Niagara Falls, 9:52 P.M. :
M STOP\ CAMEL IMPRESSION-HARDWICKE
A detailed statement from Hardwicke, carrying the signa-
tures of all his sitters, later was received by mail; it was dated,
March 3rd, and read as follows :
''Sitting at Niagara Falls, N. Y., 9 Ericson Place, at 8 :45 P.M.
Clockwise: Miss Kellogg, Don Kellogg, Mrs. Gray, Mrs. Hardwicke,
Alfred Gray and Dr. H.
"9 :03 Hardwicke in trance. Voice claiming to be that of John
Richardson.
''John : Hello Judge.
''Gray : llello.
''John : How is your foot 1
792 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
"Gray: Why I'd forgotten all about it. It is all right, doesn't
bother me at all.
''Mr. Gray then explained that as he was leaving Dr. Crandon's
house he slipped on the stairs and strained his foot.
"9 :10 Dr. H. out of trance.
FIG. 8.
''9:20 Dr. H. and Miss Kellog·g both in trance, and pencil
heard to move. D. Kellogg stated that he could see the left arm
and hand of some one coming from between Mr. Gray and Dr. H.
and reaching over the table. He wondered if John was left-handed.
'' 9 :30 Dr. H. out of trance and reported seeing a moving Camel
similar to those on the cigarette packages. [The Editor's italics.]
'' 10 :00 Miss Kellogg out of trance, sitting broke up.
"Examination of paper showed an 'M' in center of sheet."
CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 793
At 10 :45 P.M. New York called up and reported (actual
original document received next clay by mail), Mrs. Cannon
speaking:
"9 :40 P.M. have the Kid under. 9:45 P.M. Valiantine out.
Started to draw package of cigar-ettes with two sticking out. C. A.
underneath the drawing, also, I HAVE vVALKED C. A.'' [See
Fig. 9]
~
C. A.
FIG. 9.
).
The execution of this experiment was practically perfect.
It may be discussed in three stages. First, the preparation of
the cards serving as mental material or thoughts to be trans-
ferred. Secondly, the fortuitous selection of a portion of this
material and its accurate recognition (both in the clark) at
Lime Street, by Walter, Margery's control, Margery, herself,
being absent. Finally, the transfer, in sections, of this mental
material to (1) Margery, (2) Valiantine and (3) Hardwicke;
all within the space of a very few minutes.
As to the mental material, it is hard to see how knowledge
as to its character could have been better guarded. Of course,
if one desires to take refuge in the ''cosmic reservoir'' theory
of universal knowledge, the details of the cards were possibly
794 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
accessible to some supernormally endowed intelligence, but,
even with this point granted, who was that intelligenceY Cer-
tainly not the Walter-Margery entity, for Margery was an
eighth of a mile away, gaily chatting in a brightly lighted social
gathering. This being so could Walter have found for his pur-
poses sufficient mediumistic power in some one or all of the
sitters at Lime StreetY This is possible, for Walter has often
asserted that Dudley though never entranced has been often-
times a rich source of psychic energy. We might then have a
Walter-Dudley entity with a modicum at least of the super-
normal powers hitherto exhibited only by Walter-Margery. In
any event the Walter-Margery entity has become separated so
that when :finally we come to the ac.tual thought-transfer we
:find Margery, like Valiantine and Hardwicke, restricted to the
role of percipient. Under these conditions we might represent
the individual transfers as Walter-Margery, Walter-Valiantine
and Walter-Hardwicke reactions. When, however, we look at
all these reactions, actual or potential, we :find that they all
have one common factor and only one-Walter, who makes his
combinations when and how he chooses. This being so have
we not practically established Walter's independence Y
Two very important points remain. First, it will be remem-
bered, Margery wrote "a letter has fallen off the word" which
was proved later to be true. Now here was a fact which was
certainly not known to the clerk who made the card nor to
anyone else, and which, until the box was opened, could have
made no ripple in the "cosmic reservoir," which fact, never-
theless, was recorded immediately in Margery's script by w·al- .
ter as soon as he had chosen and observed the card.
Another exhibition of supernormal knowledge concerned
Judge Gray's ankle, which at Lime Street a few days before
had been slightly sprained. The Judge had forgotten the sprain
in fact and had certainly mentioned it to nobody on his return
to Niagara Falls. Nevertheless, John, Walter's assistant in
charge of Hardwicke, asks the Judge how his ankle is and re-·
ports its favorable condition immediately through Margery at
Chestnut Street, Boston, 500 miles away.
CHAPTER LX
Another Cross Correspondence with Margery's Whereabouts Unknown
At this point it will be well to insert a hitherto unpublished,
highly successful experiment, which was carried out on August
22nd, 1929, and which was characterized by certain important
variations in technique. On the above date Margery was on
a vacation trip in Canada, her exact whereabouts being un-
known. Previous to her departure it had been arranged that,
on the evening of August 2'2nd, wherever she might be, she
should sit at 9 o'clock, and register whatever impressions she
might receive.
As a matter of fact Margery's itinerary was as follows:
August 20 (Tuesday) left Boston and spent the night m
Montreal.
/ August 21st on St. Lawrence boat upon which she spent the
night.
August 22nd arrived at Toronto in the morning. Telephoned
to her cousin, Judge Gray, at Niagara on-the-Lake, where she
arrived at about 11 A.M.
At 9 P.M. according to the above-described arrangements,
Margery sat at the house of Judge Gray. Early in the evening
Dr. Hardwicke at Niagara Falls got late notice that a sitting
was to take place. He drove the 30 or 40 miles to Niagara
on-the-Lake, and arrived late. His cognitions therefore in-
volved those which occmTed after his arrival. He did not sit
in Margery's circle, but sat half way up a flight of stairs where
he was quickly entranced.
Again as per arrangement a group with Mrs. Litzelmann as
medium, sat at the house of Dr. Edison Brown in Revere,
Massachusetts, at 9 P.M.
This group, which might be called the active group, had no
knowledge as to where Margery was, or what arrangements she
had made. The Revere group sat as follows (clockwise) : Sary
795
796 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
(Mrs. Litzelmann), acted as medium, and to her left Dr. Brown,
Mrs. Brown, J. Fred Adler, J. H. Brown, E. E. Dudley, Carl
Litzelmann, and Dr. Crandon. As material for the experiment
Mrs. Brown had had prepared a number of clippings from
' '
.
d
---·-----'
I
\ \ '
FIG. 10.
ANOTHER CROSS CORRESPONDENCE WITH MARGERY 797
advertising sections of magazines. These clippings had been
placed singly in envelopes and sealed. A :;;heaf of calendar
numbers, properly marked for identification, was also provided.
The person who made the clippings was not informed as to their
purpose and Mrs. Brown, of course, had no knowledge of their
character. They were c.ontinuously in her possession until used
(in the dark) at the time of the sitting. Margery had no knowl-
edge as to the place where Sary was to sit, in fact none of the
Revere group knew the place until a few hours before the
sitting.
.Sary soon became entranced with writing pad and pencil
on her lap. Absolute darkness: no music. Soon raps were
heard and, in code, indicated the presence of Walter, Margery's
control. Rapid writing and marking on the paper pad was
heard. It covered four pages; each page ·had been marked for
identification before the sitting and each page was withdrawn
by Dr. Crandon when filled. The writing lasted until 9 :40 P.M.
and the sitting until 10 P.M. At the beginning of the sitting,
as material for the experiment, Mr. Litzelmann had chosen at
random in the dark two of the envelopes in Mrs. Brown's col-
lection. In a similar manner Mrs. Brown chose three number
slips. All this material was placed in the center of the table
by Mr. Litzelmann. . Mr. J. H. Brown was selected to take charge
of the envelopes and number slips after their use by \¥alter.
At the close of the sitting the Revere group went downstairs
and examined the writing produced by Sary. Page 1 showed
a rectangle, and, in relation .to it, were three-sided figures, sug-
gesting seats, eight in number, around a table. (See Fig. 10.)
Page 2 showed the word "Kleenex" written in a normal
style, and, below, written mirror-fashion. (See Fig. 11.)
Page 3 showed the word "Twentyeight" written mirror-
fashion, and below it a circle with vertical markings going from
its equator downward and outside it. Below that, the word
"Aug" and something not interpreted in the lower right corner.
(See Fig. 12.)
Page 4 showed the :figure 8 written eight times and a line
put under it. Below that 8-28 in figures. (See Fig. 13.)
798 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Page 5 showed mirror writing as follows: ·walter is gone but
I am in charge. All is ·well. (See Fig. 14.)
At 11 P .M. the articles which had been on the table, selected
FIG. 11.
ANOTHER CROSS CORRESPONDENCE WITH MARGERY 799
entir ely by chance, the envelopes being still sealed, were brought
forth by Mr. J. H . Brown, in whose possession they had been
kept, with the exception that two of the numbers had been
'\ -.
~ .,
)
+-r
,,l
f':._
.....___)
FIG. 12.
@
.
'
~
·-
-
\
800 1ARGE:RY MEDIU:MSHIP
dropped by mistake on the floor of the seance room. One of
the advertisements was that of a skin cleaner called "Kleenex."
In the upper corner of this advertisement was a picture which
r
0)
~
~-·~
l
; \i
\
\I
~
FIG. 13.
ANOTHER CROSS CORRESPONDENCE WITH MARGERY 801
Sary had made no effort to produce. It was a woman's left
hand with a large ring on the ring :finger.
/ .
The. second item in Mr. Brown's custody proved to be a
'I.
:•
FIG. 14.
. ~--...
~
\ a.P~
\P .
'., _h
..- ,.,...-/.
s -~
).
f:;J
H
p
.....
!"'
QAss oF::: ARE ~UFSTEDWTO
l"AV~E
~JrnE_cosM
PAN"liTB
Y cFUTIEa
sM ANDRSUGGESnNON
coNCERNING :::::NS1201 8
- - V Ol.- Oat Letter
Thio Is o full-Tat< J NM - Nlah< """"""
;~~"'u'::J:,' 1;·~~ uN 0 N NL- Nlcluleu«
ferrf!d character Is in.. I LCO - Dd'CTCd Cable
~lcated by Q suitable . NLT • Cable Leuer
151gn above or preced..
lng the address. WLT - Wcei:..&.d Letter
Tho fiUng
Received at 169 Congress St.," Boston, Mass.
,-
.NA2271
'
DR L.R
=PSYCHE DREW PICTURE OF HAND W
ITH RING
- - - -- -
WROTE QUOTE KEENIT DOCTOR AND PSYCHE IN SEPARATE ROOM$
, DREW PICTURES OF TABLES SET WI TH CHAIRS DOCTOR DREW ONE
WI TH CHEST BOTH WROTE EIGHT AMD TWENTY EIGHT PSYCHE SAID
CHEST SHOULD BE ON ONE SIDE OF
=ALFRE D WGRAY . ·
THE QUICKEST, SUREST AND SAFEsT Wft.Y TO SEND MONEY IS
.,...,.. ..... . '"d
0 <-!- ..... .
1-j ~ ~
(t> ::J ~
'"d 0., 1-j
1-j (t>
0 ~ 0
P..,.._.H:,
~ 0
C> ::J .,
(t> (fO
c+"~
l:r'<"+ ro
(t> ., H-,
rn U' ct>
(t> >--' C>
(t> e-t-
c+ 0
1:>' 0 1-j
g· 1-j '-<1
Cfo c:> p..
ai 1:>' ......
fo--J• CP ~
rn rn ...., .
4 ~t,:j
?6 0 (fq
(t> ~ c+
~ c+.,
...... 1:>' U'
~ ro CD'
c+ ~
1:>' ~ .....
(t> ~;:1.
~~M-
1-j rn p-'
~ ~-
~ p.. 8.
g· ~ (fq
(fq ~
0 U2 C>
~ ., p-'
1-j .,
1-d '-<1 ......
»' rn~ 1-l
CfCl rn
(t> ., .,
~~1-j
o.oroo
CT:> s ~
• '"d ~
c-t-P..
00
0
l~
~
P>
~
Q
t:::j
~
~
t:::j
t::J
1-1
q
~
w
p:j
1-1
ru
ANO'l'HER CROSS CORRESPONDENCE WI'l'H MARGERY 803
The numbers selected by chance and reproduced by Sary
turned out to be 2'8, 8 and 4. The 28 and the 4, as above-stated,
had been dropped by mistake on the seance room floor. Never-
theless, the 28 and 8 had been cognized by Sary; the 4 had not.
About 11 P.M. Dr. Brownreceived from Niagara Falls, New
York, a telegram, .and from this fact the Revere group assumed
that Margery had sat at this place. As a matter of fact, the
sitting had taken place at Niagara on-the-Lake, Ontario, 26
miles from Niagara Falls. In other words the locus of the
Margery sitting was enti,
rely unknown to the Revere group.
The telegram (Fig. 15) is as follows :
"Psyche (meaning Margery) drew picture of hand with ring
on third finger and wrote 'Keenit. ' Dr. (Hardwicke) and Psyche
in separate rooms drew pictures of tables set with chairs. Dr.
H. drew one with chest, both wrote 8 and 28. Psyche said chest
should be on one side o£ table.''
(Signed) ALFRED W. GRAY.
Dr. Hardwicke 's original drawings, (Fig. 16) certified as
below, showed a table with chairs and chest. Also 11111111-8.
Below that comes ''Set the table'' 28-8-28. ''Table set.'' This
was endorsed as follows: Written August 22, 1929, at 10 :l.O P.M.
by Dr. Hardwicke at the residence of A. W. Gray at Niagara
on-the-Lake, Ontario, in the presence of the undersigned:
A. w. GRAY
MARY vVRIGHT HUBBS
c. 0. KENNEY
CHARLES F. MINK
HoPE NoRMAN BIBLEY
A.
s to Margery's writing: Figures 8 and 28. Another sheet
of Margery shows drawing of the table and the word ''chair''
written eight times around the table, and the words "8 chairs"
written below. (Fig. 17).
Margery arranged table with three chairs on each side and
one on each end, chest opposite table. The following are the
804 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
..J
/(1(1/'1-- ~
(l j} c J
)J.
FIG. 16.
ANOTHER CROSS CORRESPONDENCE WITH MARGERY 805
~.
'
\
I
FIG. 17.
806 lVIARGERY lYIEDIUlVISHIP
witnesses of Margery's figures and clrawing :
0REA GRAY PARMELEE
DAVID c. DIBBLEY
FosTER PARMELEE
·wILLETT K. I-IUBBS
NEWMAN GRAY
FRANCES N. GRAY
KATE S. HAnnwrcrm
JENNIE T. KENNEY
ANNAT . N. SHUTTLEWORTH MINK
RosE E. vVRIGHT
This sitting· is the third in which .Margery has been the
recipient, rather than the agent, in the production of cross-
correspondences. The experiment presents an important dif-
ference, furthermore, in that neither medium knew, at the time
of the sitting, the location of the other. The situation can per-
haps be best expressed by a quotation from Longfellow:
"I shot an arrow into the air,
It fell to earth, I knew not where."
The important question is, vVho shot the arrow~
CHAPTER LXI
The Chinese Script and Cross Correspondences
At this point the experimentation begins to take on an
oriental flavor owing to the suggestion that Valiantine 's Chinese
controls might be able to produce phenomena of great evidential
value. These Chinese entities have been placed in sketchy out-
line before American readers through Dr. Whymant's London
lecture, appearing in the A.S.P.R. Journal for April, 1928. A
brief statement sufiicient for present purposes and ignoring
all aspects not here pertinent, would be this:
Through Valiantine, for more than a year now, communica-
tions have been freely given purporting to come from Con- ·
fucius· (Kung-fu-tze) and other Chinese contemporaneous with
.him. These are ordinarily spoken in what Dr. Whymant re-
gards as a probable approximation to correct classical Chinese
diction. The internal evidence that the entities behind the
communications are actually Chinese is rather good. There
has further been considerable indication that these entities
know things which could hardly fall within the normallmowl-
edge of any others than those whom they purport to be.
vVhen Valiantine first went to Boston to attend Margery
seances, and when these seances turned out to be more or less
a function of the two mediumships of Valiantine and Margery,
his Chinese controls appeared freely. Since that time, when
Margery sits in accordance with her ordinary routine, vValter
quite consistently presents the picture that numbers of these
Chinese are at hand, as his assistants or as interested specta-
tors; and that their services are currently available to him.
The situation is not without its element of humor, as for in-
stance when \i\Talter complains that he doesn't much relish the
constant presence of all these "Chinks''; that they are always
"high-hatting" him. It is also not without its element of poten-
. tial importance in the present story to anticipate the possibility,
807
808 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
if such Chinese personalities are really at Walter's hand, of
some of the writings of the cross-correspondences being at-
tempted in Chinese.
ExPERIMENT OF MARCH 10, 1928
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, March 10, 19,28. Present in bright
light downstairs: Margery, Dr. Richardson, Mr. and Mrs. Albert
C. Neres, Mr. Crawford (Chicago), Mr. Dudley, Mr. and Mrs.
Millea, and Dr. Crandon.
c.o""'e
""
~lrU.
lY'\O~t
TliN~...(.o.
bh
CA..U.
pu~
~
lo..o
C~<:..~f~
()l
(~1)~9J-u..-t ~JL
LA.~ ~'5-L
a~\os~,~~
~
\'J'"o. .~ '"0~ck
~
c.. t>-(V\.L
L~ \.I\)'\J,/Y
h \) l)...<!, ~'h..\)~
~
S\.l..."'(\~
the'I\
\\J~\..l
C.. o"'i\'\.t.
IN. -
N\'6!!>\i,..,..
~
....?/'\..Q.. ~ CJ./\.JL -
~t>U..
qls.o
w'.l.L
·~o..Y-t
t\,\w(k.
C"""-j._
-\\lV
\~
lcm'M.\
\t
}\t\4& l~Y" -
·\
~~· ~
be. ~V.,"'(~
~y
CA..
1\1\M.
/"'-....
Ill
\ \.-I)V..'Ih\ \'-\.' y,_~S.<;
FIG. 18.
At 9:18 P.M. Margery began to write, beginning at the right
eqge of the paper with great rapidity, and wrote two words.
It was then found that she had written the words completely
CHINESE SCRIPT .AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 809
backwards, but when finished they read normally thus: ''Go
upstairs.'' At 9:2'5 P.M. the party went upstairs and sat in the
usual order.
Walter came in about two minutes and said that the Chinese
tests were in preparation; that Kung-fu-tze would not come
immediately but would be preceded by his disciple ''Tao,'' who
would prepare the way for the -"Master."
At 9:45 P.M. the group went downstairs into bright white
light. At 9:47 Margery began writing in three vertical columns
and produced the text of Fig. 18. It will be noted that while
this text is English, its arrangement constitutes an approxi-
mation to that of a Chinese text.
At 10:47 P.M. the New York group with Valiantine called
up and Mrs. Cannon said that at 9 :26 P.M. \¥alter said, through
Valiantine, he wasn't sure he was going to be able to do it
tonight. He said he was not going to control tonight. Then
Kung-fu-tze came in and said he had just picked the medium
up. Trying to control the other medium. Not sure he could
/ do it. He was controlling the one in Boston. He began, start-
ing at the right edge of the paper, and wrote eight Chinese
characters. At the top he wrote: "Tao is my disciple," and he
misspelled disciple-precisely as Margery had done in her
script. Underneath is written: Kong Futze.
Veri:fication of this was received from New York by mail
next day, with signatures of all sitters.
The facts of this experiment are noteworthy chiefly for their
distinctly oriental Chinese atmosphere. An interesting coin-
cidence is the mis-spelling of the word '' deciple,'' in the scripts
both of Margery and Valiantine. As to .the -Characters ,writte:h
by Valiantine, we have not succeed·ed in sec·uriJ.ig: mi.y transla,.
tion. They are said, however, to have distinct- :resemblances
to very early Chinese. ·; ~! - _
They are reproduced in Fig. .19, in two ·colu:r;r.ni.~. for economy
of space although in the original they stood i11 :a single. column,
those at the left of the cut: standing~ above 1
those at :the: right.
The seances following Ma:rch ·).0,)1928; of ithe present:.s·e.:..
quence, continued t<O ·Q_evelop:the :Chirtes,e ttlieme,:.soru.eti.rires:in
810 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
connection with the cross-correspondential angle and some-
times as an end in itself, without reference to any other aspect
of the material presented beyond its Chinese character. Thus,
at the seventeenth sitting of the series, held in Lime .Street on
March 15th, 1928, there were present, clockwise: Dr. Richard-
son, Mr. M. Hardwicke, the son of Dr. Hardwicke, Mrs. Philip
Hale, Mr. J. H. Brown, Mr. Millea, Mr. and Mrs. Neres, Mr.
G-
X 3
7 J~
--¥- ~
<P FIG. 19.
Dudley, Mr. Adler, Mrs. Richardson, Dr. Crandon and the
Psychic. Walter came through promptly, whistling off the key
of the victrola and remarking that "We must be oriental to-
night.'' He then addressed the sitters with mock Chinese
formality, saying substantially: '' Oh illustrious members of this
.disreputable household! Lao-Tze will come tonight. He likes
your books. He was a curator of books. On March 17th I
may not talk, but may only rap. I don't mix with Chinese
myself, but it isn't my choice. Be ready to write in red light
CHINESE SCRIP'r .AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 811
if necessary. I asked one of these Chinese something today,
and he answered by drawing a kind of urn, with horns.''
There was much repartee back and forth; in the course of
which somebody said to Walter, in the latest mode of current
slang, ''And How!'' Someone else in the same spirit said,
"And ·why~" Walter rejoined: "You will be interested to
know that these two expressions mean something to these
Chinese.''
The sitting closed at 9 :3-3, after thirty-two minutes; and
the group all went downstairs into the light. Without trance
and in a fully normal state, Margery began automatic writing
at 9:40, ending at 9:5·5·. She wrote .the text and drew the dia-
gram of Fig. 20. This will add }Joint to the remarks immedi-
ately above about the presentation of the Chinese atmosphere
as an end in itself, without other context. We may note with ·
some interest the purported appearance of another disciple of
Confucius; we have had Tao and we riow get Lao-Tze. The
figure drawn has marked resemblance, we are told, to an ancient
Chinese altar; and the Chinese characters at the end of the
script actually constitute the signature "Lao-Tze."
ExPERIMENT OF MARCH 17, 1928
The next seance was held on March 17th, with the following
group of sitters, in the circle and outside, in an order of which
no exact record was kept: Dr. Richardson, Mrs. Baker, Mr.
and Mrs. Litzelmann, Mr. and Mrs. Saunders, Mr. J. H. Brown,
Mr. Adler, Mr. and Mrs. Neres, Mr. and Mrs. Millea, Mr. Dudley,
Miss Marian Richardson, Mrs. Richardson, Dr. Crandon and
Margery. Trance on this date was exceptionally deep, both
hands being colder than usual. vValter came through promptly
and maintained a merry conversation with the sitters. Among
other things he gave the following epigram: "All is not Chinese
that chinks.'' I-Ie told us that he was providing the energy
for the night's entertainment but that he was in no way respon-
sible for ·what his Chinese guests might do or say. He then
called for pad and pencil, told us to release the medium's hands
and turn on a low red light, and let her then do as she pleased.
812 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
- · ......~
---~-~·~ .~-
FIG. 20.
Whereupon Margery took up the pencil and wrote on the upper-
most page of the pad in nine vertical columns, but with such
speed that those nearest her could only assume that her hand
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 813
was merely trembling. The longest time consumed in the writ-
ing of any one column was seventeen seconds and the shortest
was twelve seconds. Wben the seance closed at 9:53 after
--
.£;tt::L
I \\'
FIG. 21.
having been under way since nine o'clock, we were told by
Walter to leave the red light burning and to go downstairs
without any more walking about in the seance room than was
necessary.
814 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
FIG. 22.
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 815
On examination downstairs, it was seen that the page on
which Margery had been writing carried not formless marks,
but characters which to the eyes of the sitters carried every
suggestion of being actual Chinese script. This page is repro-
duced as Fig. 21. Further, downstairs in ordinary white light
Margery again felt the urge to write automatically, and from
9 :5•
5 to 10:21 she wrote, much more slowly than before, five
additional columns of characters on a fresh sheet. These fell
into two rather distinct groups: one group of 24 characters in
two columns of moderate intensity, similar to those written in
red light upstairs; and· 43 characters in three columns ·very
heavily overscored. This second sheet is reproduced as Fig. 22.
On this same date a Valiantine sitting was held at Hyslop
House in New York; and during this seance, a voice announcing
itself as Kung-fu-tze addressed Mrs. Cannon, greeting her in
Chinese first and then adding, in English: ''One-two-three-
1 try:''' Mrs. Cannon asked whether he meant that .he would
try to come through three mediums that evening and he replied
_/ in the affirmative. At the end of the seance, Valiantine, out
of trance, wrote and drew the diagram, words and characters
reproduced in Fig. 23. This was reported to Lime Street by
telephone call, the connection being made at 10:42 P.M. Nothing
further in connection with the cross-correspondential theme
developed at the Valiantine seance and so far as is known no
successful attempt to employ a third medium was made.
Reverting to the Lime Street script, it should be said that
during the presence of the Chinese controls, and in view of
Walter's direct statement that he anticipated that Confucius
himself would attend, some of the sitters asked several rather
broad general questions which they felt might appropriately
be addressed to such a person. These questions were not writ-
ten down but .their nature is implied by the answers to which
we shall now come.
.By particular invitation, a day or two after the seance, Dr.
Hsieh (pronounced Shay as nearly as occidental lips can readily
come to it), a Chinese scholar and one-time Commercial Envoy
from China, came to Lime Street and brought 1vith him Dr.
816 ; MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
~.,..,
~
FIG. 23.
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 817
Tse-fang F. Huang, S.B., S.M., M.D., Chief of the Department
of Epidemiology of the National Epidemic Prevention Bureau
in Pekin. Dr. Huang is a Chinese of great learning, and at
the present time a student in the Harvard Graduate School
of Public Health. He and Dr. Hsieh agreed that the writing
produced by Margery's hand in both red and white light was
· true ''original'' Chinese-they use this term in avoidance of
the expression ''ancient Chinese.'' The difficulties confronting
a student of modern Chinese who attempts to read such an
''original'' text are very considerable, and without a special
training in the classical language which Drs. Hsieh and Huang
disclaim, a rapid and accurate reading is not possible. Dr.
Huang however devoted himself to a translation with such
accuracy as is possible, with the distinct reservation that greater
time put on it by one who knows more than he does might prob-
ably bring out more precise shades of meaning. His translation
of the red-light script from the seance room is as follows:
''The Master said: 'The prima.ry object in life of a man of
virtue is not to be always well-fed, rior to be always comfortably
housed. He is diligent in his work and careful in his speech.'
"Yu-tze said: 'Truth is akin to faithfulness, as it enables one
to abide by one's words; humbleness is akin to politeness, as it
keeps one away from disgrace and shame.'
"Yu-tze said: 'Serenity is the most valuable fruit of politeness.
This is the most valuable teaching of our ancient sages.'
''He is a filial son who is able to do a small as well as a big
type of work.
"Kung-fu-tze said: 'He is a filial son who studies his father's
ambitions during his lifetime and observes his life-history after his
death, and who does not forego his father's ways within three
years after his death.'
'' Tse-king said: 'The Master's ways were characterized by
kindness and gentleness, humbleness and politeness. Neither should
our ways differ from his ways.' ''
The second sheet, written downstairs, yields the following
translation:
'"l'he Master said: 'Isn't it a happy thing to have the oppor-
tunity to study and to review your studies? Isn't it a pleasant
matter to receive a call from a friend from afar? Isn't it like a
true gentleman to possess knowledge and yet not to be disheartened
when his knowledge is not known to others?'
818 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
"Yu-tze said: ' It is improbable to have a man who is good
to his parents and brothers, and who could be disobedient to his
superiors. It is impossible to have a man ·who is not disobedient
to his.superiors and who could be a disturber of the public peace.' "
In summarizing this experiment, we must point out that
here, 'Nalter, in terms of the face values, played a secondary
but very ·important part: that is, he prepared the way and
arranged the apparatus for the use of his Chinese associates.
That conditions must have been well-nigh perfect is indicated
by the extraordinary speed with which Margery transcribed
the Chinese ideas. As to these ideas, we are assured by native
Chinese scholars that in context, quite aside from the mere
question of ideography, they bear the hall-mark of ''original''
Chinese literature which is accessible only in one or two libraries
in this country. Absolutely certain it is that neither Margery,
nor Walter, nor any person in this circle of sitters, can have
any normal knowledge of Chinese language or literature. Un-
der these circumstances what becomes of secondary personali-
ties as factors in this phase of Margery's mediumship ~ Is it
to be urged by the incurably anti-spiritistic critic that Margery-
vValter performed a book-test of the conventional type, using
for the purpose Chinese scripts from some distant library~
Such a claim would seize upon and magnify into a dominant
element the fact that the Chinese scripts here displayed are
not apposite to any seance action originated spontaneously and
at random, but are simply produced out of thin air apropos of
nothing at all. If the anti-spiritistic claims are to rest on this
foundation, however, we shall very shortly see all possibility
of such a basis swept cleanly out from under them. What posi-
tion will the anti-spiritistic critic then occupy ~ We may be
sure, reasoning from his past record, that he will :find one some-
where; but how tenable will it be ~
EXPElUMENT OF MARCH 22, 1928
On the next sitting date, March 22nd, there were present
in the usual clockwise order: Dr. Richardson, Mr. and Mrs.
Neres, Miss Patty Richardson, Mr. Adler, Mr. Dudley, Mrs.
CHINESE SCRIPT .AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 819
=::.
h 1~
~i. t}:.-
\'J
±
~~
0
}.1, lT
7J:. 7~
'0
,-tJ
@ \~
l.!J'
~
t~. ·~
)
-11} :W.
----
}-k_ ;J,,)
~
-1t Jt
;.._
*'·
:{.
A
I~
1
~
;,iff
I ?"
~
~
~ ·
., ...::;....}
)~·
~
t _
9-
a
;K
+I
lr
FIG. 24.
820 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
Richardson, Dr. Crandon and Margery. Outside the circle sat
Miss Louise Seaman. The results were in all senses parallel
with those of the preceding date except that Margery's writing
was done in the dark; and beyond this we need not describe
the seance action. Some of Walter's remarks are, however, of
sufficient possible interest for quotation here.
He told us that when Kung-fu-tze manifests in our seance-
room he is not necessarily personally present. In amplification
of this, however, he said that at the time of Whymant's inter-
FIG. 25.
view with Kung-fu-tze through Valiantine in trance (see Light,
Jan. 14th, 1928), the Master was actually present in person.
The script produced at this sitting consisted of two columns
of what we took to be Chinese characters, on one page (Fig. 24) ;
and independently of this, on another page, a very large single
character (Fig. 25) made in three parts with a brush and India
ink provided by the sitters in the hope of getting· some such
use thereof. Both sheets were from a sheaf all leaves of which
had been previously marked for identification by Dr. Richard-
son, and both he was able thus to identify.
On March 23rd the text of Fig. 24 was shown to Dr. Hsieh,
who said that it was perfectly good original Chinese but that
he lacked the time to make a translation. Four days later the
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 821
following rendition was got through Mr. Y. W. Lee, 490 Beacon
Street, Boston, a young Chinese student at Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology: ''Our doctors-everything is given from
above- Because of this we do not have to over-worry-
The master said: 'Those who seek the :fine principles shall all
attain them'- My loving heart- To my brothers, broad-
minded- Everything goes smoothly- Peace.''
ExPERIMENT OF MARCH 24, 1928
This evening, March 24th, is of extreme interest and im-
portance because of the way in which it :finally brings completely
together, into one action, the Chinese and the cross-correspon-
dential themes. In Lime Street, the following sitters were
present, in clockwise order: Dr. Richardson, Mr. Charles S.
Hill, Mr. Bird, Mrs. Richardson, Mr. Dudley, Mrs. Barbara
McKenzie of London, Dr. Crandon and Margery. Outside the
-circle in no particular order that was recorded were: Mrs.
William Cannon, Misses Patty and Marian Richardson, Mr.
and Mrs. Millea, Mrs. Cornell, Mr. and Mrs. Neres, Miss Laura
Crandon, Mr. and Mrs. Litzelmann, Dr. E. W. Brown, Mr.
J. H. Brown and Mr. Adler.
Walter came through in :fine spirits; he said there were
several Chinese present; and this was further suggested by
many repetitions of a series of light, fast raps which the regu-
lar sitters have learned to a~sociate with the purported presence
of the oriental controls. Walter suggested to these Chinese on
the present evening that they do their rapping on the outer
side of the west wing of the cabinet; and this suggestion was
put into execution.
Mrs. McKenzie had prepared a number of cards, each having
words or pictures or both pasted on it. Mr. Dudley had brought
a collection of geometrical :figures drawn on cards in India ink.
Dr. Richardson brought a n.ew calendar with thirty-one num-
bered pages. All this paraphernalia was put in one box, placed
by Mrs. McKenzie on the table with the cover on; and presently
Walter was heard, apparently removing the lid and handling
the cards. He :finally placed one of them on the end of the table
822 l\fARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
near Mrs. McKenzie and told her to take possession of it and
keep it concealed on her person. Another card from her col-
lection was similarly handed to Dr. Richardson. From Dudley's
sheaf he picked out a card and handed it to Mr. Bird; but when
he asked the latter sitter whether he could tell what the figure
was by feeling of it, Mr. Bird replied that he judged it to be a
circle. Walter responded that that was precisely what it was
and substituted for it another card. On this, too, Mr. Bird
could feel the raised design but it was of sufficiently complex
character and along at least one of its edges it merged into
the surface of the card sufficiently gradually, to prevent his
FIG. 26.
identifying the pattern. This card was accordingly adjudged
satisfactory and possession of it was retained by Mr. Bird.
Finally Walter turned over one of the calendar numbers to
Mr. Hill, with the remark: "Judge, here's your lucky number."
No definite statement had been made as to precisely what
treatment would be given all these elements but it was under-
stood that in one way or another they were to be made the
objects of experiments similar to the earlier ones of the series,
and that for this purpose Dr. Hardwicke was sitting on the
present evening.
Walter now of his own motion suggested that if Mr. Bird
would give any reasonably short sentence, he would try to have
his Chinese assistants reproduce it through Hardwicke, in
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 823
Chinese translation. Bird gave the proverb: ''A rolling stone
gathers no moss," which was accepted by ·walter with some
humorous comment. Bird had been cautioned by Walter to
make his sentence neither too light nor too heavy, and the
proverb seemed to him an excellent mean, being furthermore
quite the only idea he could find under the unexpected demand.
The seance closed after an hour and three minutes and
the party adjourned downstairs. There they found that Mrs.
Stinson's nurse had eight minutes earlier, at ten o'clock exactly,
taken over the telephone a telegram from Niagara Falls, in
which Hardwicke said: ''Characters stop drawing stop am
mailing.''
•
FIG. 27.
At 10:17, nine minutes after the close of the seance, Margery
began to write while fully conscious, in full white light, on
several sheets of paper. She produced several elements, which
we describe, illustrate and comment upon separately:
(1) A drawing of a Maltese cross·. It was evident to several
of the sitters who watched while she made this, and Margery
824 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
herself subsequently verified, that her pencil tended to make
the notches between the several arms go about in a curve at
their bottoms, rather than in the conventional points; and that
through conscious knowledge of what the drawing was tending
toward in terms of convention, Margery was resisting this.
This effect is even slightly discernible in her drawing. Having
:finished the sketch, she wrote in its center the direct attribu-
tion to Mr. Bird which appears in the reproduction of Fig. 26.
This :figure also shows the geometrical figure found on the card
in Mr. Bird's possession, when this was examined after the
writing was :finished. The close correspondence and particularly
the point about the between-arm spaces will be evident.
I~ f
J. I
I •
I A.
' y I
FIG. 28.
(2') The :figure 13. Examination of the calendar sheet in
Judge Hill's possession showed it to be this one. In addition
to the number, there was a valid attribution to Mr. Hill, in
the words: ''For the illustrious gentleman with open shirt''
written under the number.
(3) The capital letters L-U-X, in the arrangement shown in
Fig. 27; an arrangement precisely corresponding with that of
these letters as they were found on the card in Mrs. McKenzie's
possession, as further shown in this :figure.
(4) A series of small circles in two vertical rows, with two
larger and less circular marks between them, and the word
"Kung-fu-tze" in English diagonally across the rest of the
space between them; all as shown in Fig. 28. Examination of
the card in Dr. Richardson's possession showed it to be the
deuce of spades, decked out with two rows of Chinese char-
acters as shown in the :first half of Fig. 28, the extreme
CHINESE SCRIPT .AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 825
correspondence with Margery's drawing need not be pointed
out. We assume that the name "Kung-fu-tze" in the automatic
script represents Walter's attempt to put across the idea that
the Chinese atmosphere of the card had been recognized.
· The Hardwicke sitting in Niagara Falls produced a written
record signed by the sitters, but more important are the sig-
natures of four of these sitters on the sheet of paper mailed to
Lime .Street, attesting that this is the original produced at the
seance and not a forgery made up after the Lime Street returns
had reached Niagara. This paper (see Fig. 29) carries fourteen
Chinese characters in two columns, and also a Maltese cross
within a circle. This is inferred to arise out of the circumstance
that in the Lime Street sitting a circle was :first chosen and then
rejected, to be followed by a cross. At the bottom of the sheet
there is found what we take to be an attempt upon the spade
deuce with the added Chinese characters; and the large design
at the left center of the sheet is the signature of Kung-fu-tze,
but in Chinese rather than in English as Margery gave it.
The characters at the top of the page, above the circle-cross
drawing, are to be considered separately. As regards the bal-
ance of this Chinese text, Mr. Lee :finds that the second and
third characters resist his attack. With this omission as indi-
cated, he translates the balance of the text as follows: ''My
- --- travelling teachers gather no gold.'' This we regard
as a transfer, into a more Chinese atmosphere than one would
get by direct translation, of Mr. Bird's proverb; and we feel
that no fair-minded reader will resist this interpretation. It
gives, indeed, a touch of the Chinese temperament rather more
convincing, we think, than a straight translation in word-for-
word style could possibly afford.
Parallel with this as constituting the crux of the present
experiment must be considered the characters at the top of
the page, referred to just above as possessing isolated signifi-
cance. Mr. Lee states that the two characters across the very
top of the sheet here read: ''11
3 little mountain'' and that the
single one below is: "bird." Thus we have not only a turning
over into Chinese, at a distance of 500 miles, of the number
---· -
826 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
arbitrarily chosen for Mr. Hill during the Lime Street sitting;
we have in addition what must be taken as knowledge of the
Lime Street presence of Messrs. Bird and Hill.
Now Judge Hill, once an extremely regular sitter, had not
been in Lime Street for many months, following a critical ill-
ness from which his recovery was slow, arduous, and for a time
very doubtful. His presence at this sitting was not by appoint-
ment or in renewal of his former regular attendance. Rather,
he found himself free to come on a Saturday evening, when he
know a seance to be highly probable; so he just came. Until
he appeared at the Lime Street door somewhat after eight
o'clock nobody in the house had the remotest inkling that he
was coming, and no familiar name could have carried with it
a greater degree of improbability that its possessor would turn
up for this seance. After his arrival Margery was not for an
instant out of sight of the sitters and so could not have com-
municated with Niagara.
Mr. Bird's presence, while not nearly so improbable in-
trinsically, was equally without prior arrangement or announce-
ment. He found himself, late on Friday, with numerous matters
of publication about which he wished to confer with Mr. Dudley
and others in Boston. With no other statement to the office
force in Hyslop House than that he would not be in on Saturday,
he motored up as is his custom when the weather makes it
possible; and inasmuch as he was not arriving for dinner he
did not bother to telegraph. He has arrived thus without an-
nouncement in the past but nobody in Boston had the slightest
reason to anticipate his presence on this date. Yet somebody
in Niagara Falls knew that he and Judge Hill were among the
sitters in Lime Street on this evening. Somebody in Niagara
Falls knew that the number 13 was pertinent to Hill's presence.
and that the proverb about the extremely unprofitable char-
acter of instability was pertinent to the s-eance in general. And
sorr1,eone in Niagara Falls was able to express all this knowledge
in perfectly good classical Chinese. If not Walter with the aid
of his Chinese assistants-then who1 We ask this question
not through any predilection toward the spirit hypothesis but
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 827
-t i'fJ--
_;;-, ,:-)
'Ll-l
@
.*
~ \
;;fe •:f t
=r
I'J"-'
1\L.
]'G \
~ ~ <
()0
-t-
~
\~
\l'"" 1_..
~ 1 .
~
1' ~
t - I
) ~
\"-
ll
~
~
&) '~
~
~· ~
< "~""'-
l~IG. 29.
in honest desire to know what alternative thereto can conceiv-
ably be offered to explain the recorded facts of this date, and
of those of a week hence to which we shall duly come.
828 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ExPERIMENT OF MARcH 29, 1928
This very brief episode intervenes between the one just
given and the :final climax of our story. The date was March
29th, and the sitters, in the usual clockwise order, were: Dr.
Richardson, Mrs. Hale, Mrs. Baker, Miss Patty Richardson,
Miss Laura Crandon, Mrs. Richardson, Mr. Dudley, Mrs. Mc-
Kenzie, Dr. Crandon and the Psychic. A box containing various
numbers and :figures was placed on the table by Mrs. McKenzie ;
and, from it, Walter picked out a calendar number or a geo-
metrical :figure or a card with material pasted on it, and having
silently noted its content handed it to a sitter; doing this, in
all, :five times, with :five sitters.
Three and one-half minutes after the close of the seance,
Margery began to write in the book-room downstairs. Not to
go into burdensome detail, we reproduce (Fig. 30) one of the
cards and the drawing thereto pertaining, to illustrate the
generalization that Margery made :five drawings, etc., each in a
lined-off compartment of the paper on which she worked, and
each with the name of a sitter below it or in it; and that each
of the :five sitters who had a paper produced it, to :find that its
content had been given ·with substantial accuracy and complete-
ness and that it had been correctly attributed to him. One
interesting observation, however, deserves to be set down; there
was no parallelism between the order of the distribution of the
cards in the seance room and the order of their description as
written and drawn downstairs. We mention this not as a cri-
terion between genuineness and fraud, but rather because on
the hypnotic theory of validity, one would expect that the cards
would be later described by Margery in the order in which the
suggestions were made to her in the seance room. Apparently,
however, the process employed by Walter in getting the post-
seance reproduction of the seance material is sufficiently differ-
ent from one of routine hypnosis to be free from this ordinary
limitation of the hypnotic process.
ExPERIMENT o:F MARCH 31, 1928
On March 31st was held the last seance of the group herein
reported, though the mental phenomena of the general type of
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 829
those of this paper continue to this moment and are of great
interest. We stop with this date because this date seems to
give a climax, alike in the cross-correspondence sequence itself
and in its integration into the Chinese theme.
The Lime Street circle ran, clockwise: Dr. Richardson, Miss
Silsbee, Mrs. Bird, Mr. Millea, Miss Patty Richardson, Miss
Laura Crandon, Miss Marian Richardson, Mr. Kunz (see
Journal, A..S.P.R., 1929, April, p. 191), Mr. Dudley, Mr. Bird,
Mrs. McKenzie, Dr. Crandon and the Psychic. The experi-
mental routine was partly determined in advance and partly
suggested by Walter as we went along. First and last, the
following moves were made:
(1) Mr. Bird was given the sheaf of calendar pages, which
had been thoroughly shuffled beforehand by Mrs. McKenzie.
During the seance, at Walter's demand, he placed this sheaf
on the table; and ·walter selected from it, in total darkness as
always in these tests, and gave to Mr. Bird, one of the calendar
sheets. On this sheet Mr. Bird wrote his name in the dark and
handed the sheet, thus marked, to Dr. Richardson for safe-
keeping.
(2) Mrs. McKenzie was instructed by Walter to write her
name on a second calendar page, selected by him and handed
to her; and to deliver the page thus marked to Mr. Bird for
safe keeping.
(3) In similar fashion, Mr. Millea, who had custody of the
box of cards with geometrical figures, put these on the table,
and one was selected by Walter. This card finally came into
Mrs. McKen.zie 's custody; whether directly from the table or
by passage through some other hand is not recalled.
(4) Mrs. McKenzie had preliminary custody of a box of
cards prepared by herself, ·with pictures and text pasted on
them from magazine advertising pages. It is not recalled in
whose custody the card which Walter selected from this group
was placed, but such selection was made and the card duly
safeguarded in some sitter's possession.
(5) Mrs. McKenzie was asked by Walter to give, vocally,
a number of no more than three digits; the attempt would then
be made to give this number through the other mediums who
830 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
were sitting on the present evening in cooperation with the
Lime Street group.
(6) Mrs. McKenzie was asked to give a sentence for Chinese
WITZERLAND
·~AWAY
' ...,
.
.....
FIG. 30.
Summer tt'rips
in the We.ct
translation and transmission through the other mediums, as
had been done the week before with Mr. Bird's sentence. · This
sentence, like her number under ('5), she gave aloud, so all the
Lime Street sitters knew it and its mere production in Mar-
gery's ovvn. post-seance script would mean nothing. The sen-
. CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORH.ESPONDENCES 831
tence given was: ''He sticketh like a brother''; and Walter
so persistently paraphrased it, during the S'\~ance "He sticketh
like a burr,'' that the sitters were in doubt just what result to
expect from this test.
(7) Mr. Bird was now asked to write a number of at most
two digits, on a slip of paper taken from his pocket; and to
restore it to his pocket without putting it on the table or other-
wise exposing it in any way. It was ·walter's hope that Hard-
FIG. 31. FIG. 32.
l-laddon ltall
~Cigars
FIG. 33.
wicke would give this number in Chinese. This one, if delivered
even by Margery and by her alone, will be evidential; for Mr.
Bird states that he was very careful to write in such way that
even had the room been light, no idea could have been got from
across the .circle what he was writing.
(8) A third calendar number, selected by one of the sitters
whose identity was neither recorded nor remembered, was put
in Mrs. McKenzie's custody,
'The seance was rather long, lasting slightly over an hour;
and it is to be noted that three times ·walter disappeared for
intervals of a half-minute or more.
832 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
After the seance, Margery started to write automatically
and wrote merely the number '' 21''; the words ''Haddon Hall''
(in printed letters, capitals and lower case); the large capital
letters "DN" in mirror writing; and drew a square with very
heavy sides; all as in Fig. 33. Examination of the material
held by the several sitters was not made until later, but its re-
sults may best be given now, so far as they are now pertinent.
Mrs. McKenzie's calendar page was found to be the ''21'' sheet;
the geometrical pattern in her custody was found to be a square,
corresponding as Fig. 31 shows to the one drawn by Margery
(but this matter of style is not so important because Mr. Dudley
always employed this style in making up the geometrical fig-
ures) ; and the card pasted by Mrs. McKenzie and selected dur-
ing the seance was found to carry the words "Haddon Hall" as
in Fig. 33. This later parallelism in style between the seance
and the post-seance material is important, since there could here
be no expectation.
After an interval of about half an hour, Margery was moved
to write again; and in realization that the first group of writings
was not numerous enough to exhaust the seance material, none
of this had been brought out for examination until after this
second access of writing. At this time Margery wrote the
combination of Chinese characters with attributions in English
to certain sitters which· is reproduced as Fig. 34. For these,
it was not necessary to consult highly erudite authority; the
Japanese servant in the house read them as the numerals 1
and 19, respectively, and as regards the former Mr. Bird is
able to verify the reading from his own accidental knowledge.
But Mr. Bird's signed calendar sheet in Dr. Richardson's pos-
session was found to be the ''1'' sheet, and :1\!rs. McKenzie's
signed sheet in Mr. Bird's possession was found to be "19."
Simultaneously with the Lime Street seance, more or less,
Dr. Hardwicke sat in Niagara Falls. His seance record carries
the d.ate March 31st and the signatures of all sitters; it was
received in Lime Street by mail on April 3rd; there was no
telegraphed report. .The record states that following the seance
there was automatic writing by Dr. Hardwicke of Chinese char-
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 833
acters; and the sheet of these received by mail in Lime Street
contains, amongst other characters, those for the numerals 1,
19, 2:1 and 120. This latter was the number given aloud by
Mrs. McKenzie for attempted transmission through the other
FIG. 34.
mediums. The sheet written on this date by Dr. Hardwicke
is reproduced as Fig. 35.
As a third medium sitting in the attempt to collaborate
-H-
FIG. 35.
with the Lime Street group, we have to deal with Mrs. Sarah
Litzelmann, old friend of the Crandons and frequent sitter in
Lime Street. For some time, more or less inspired by Mar-
gery's experience, she has been sitting in an informal amateur
834 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
++{
1-f ~ 6
/II \
iff
\
1\J
FIG. 36.
CHINESE SCRIPT AND CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 835
way in her home and getting phenomena of small range and
content. On this date she was in Ogunquit, Me., about sixty
miles from Boston, and arrangements had been made for her
to sit and see what would happen. \Valter had· accepted her
collaboration and had stated that he was prepared to use her.
During the interval between Margery's two periods of writ-
ing, a telephone messa,ge was received in Lime Street from
Mr. Litzelmann. He stated that "Sairy" had been in trance
three times between nine and ten o'clock; it was known to the
Lime Street regulars and verified by Mr. Litzelmann that
Mrs. L. had never before been entranced; and it was recalled
that Walter had ostensibly withdrawn from the Lime .Street
seance room three times during the sitting. All this of course
could have been prearranged. But the number '' 2'1'' was given
in four different ways by Mrs. Litzelmann while entranced:
in ordinary writing, in dashes, in little circles, and finally by
raps. An attempt to describe further over the telephone what
she had written may best be suppressed, since it suffered badly
from unskillful reading by her sitters. 'When the documents
were received in Lime Street they were found to comprise a
column of Chinese characters; and, separately from these, the
name "Bird" and the numbers 1, 19, 21 and 120 in Chinese.
Further, there was something which the Ogunquit sitters had
been quite unable to read but which was easily interpreted in
Lime Street as "Haddon Hall" in rather poor mirror writing.
All this appears in Fig. 36.
It will be noted that we have got back through one or all
our mediums all the seance material except Mrs. McKenzie's
· proverb and Mr. Bird's secret number. The former was per-
manently lost. vVith regard to the latter, the facts are suffi-
ciently interesting. Mr. Bird selected with considerable care
the number '' 35,'' as a compromise between what he calls a
"psychological" and an "unpsychological" choice. That is to
say, the digits 6, 7, 9, occurring so far above their normal fre-
quency in mind-made choice of numbers, are avoided; but care
is exercised not to go to the other extreme and select even
numbers, at the expense of the odd numbers which predominate
836 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
in ordinary, undirected choice of this sort. The result should
be very difficult to guess correctly on either theory-, that normal
psychology was being followed or that it was being avoided.
Nothing about this number appears in Margery's own script.
But on Sunday morning she told Mr. Bird with every appear-
ance of positive confidence that one digit of his number was 3,
that she had dreamed it unmistakably during the night. Walter
later stated that he had actually seen so much of Mr. Bird's
number, but that Mr. Bird had removed it so quickly that he
had not adequately sensed the second digit. Further examina-
tion of the Hardwicke and Litzelmann Chinese scripts then
shows that these include also the Chinese numeral 3, and that
they include no other numerals besides this and those already
indicated.
It is of some interest to note that, her attention having
been focussed on the matter by the dream and Mr. Bird's ad-
mission of its correctness, Margery was consciously trying to
guess the other digit all day Sunday and that in the process
she came down, :first and last, on pretty much all the digits
there are. The difference between normal impressions and
supernormal ones is well illus~rated here, together with the
difficulty which the genuine psychic has in sorting out the super-
normal workings of her mind from its normal ones. Inciden-
tally, Mr. Bird·states that his paper with the "35" on it was
adequately safeguarded over-night and that the full number,
35, was not revealed to anybody until late on Sunday, April 1st.
CHAPTER LXII
General Summary of Cross Correspondences
The phenomena observed in the foregoing experiments with
the Margery mediumship may be grouped somewhat as follows:
(1) Phenomena related to psychic sensitiveness, recipiency
or mediumship as exhibited by the (a) possession, or, (b) acqui-
sition of supernormal knowledge.
(2) Phenomena related to psychic agency initiating and con-
trolling the diffusion of this knowledge.
As sensitives we have observed Margery, George Valiantine,
Dr. Hardwicke, and Mrs. Litzelmann. As agent ·walter stands
out pre-eminently but, with his cooperation, the Chinese group
has assumed an almost equal importance.
As regards the psychic conditions of the mediums, these are,
I believe, in all instances, similar, in kind, to hypnotic trance.
In automatic writing, for 'instance, Margery feels a slight but
perfectly appreciable sense of mental vacuity similar to that
seen in the lightest form of hypnotic influence, even though she
may seem to the onlookers to be in a perfectly normal state.
The deep mediumistic trances would then have their analogues
in those seen also in hypnotic subjects.
As to the induction of trance conditions, we know that, in
hypnotic practice, this is ordinarily produced by some human
agent such as a physician, but the fact of self-hypnosis is well-
known and might well be responsible for certain varieties, at
least, of mediumistic trance. An active entrancing entity out-
side the medium's organism need not, therefore, be assumed.
The trance condition, however, whatever its cause, brings with
it supernormal powers such as clairvoyance in the dark, and
the knowledge thus obtained is exhibited later in a manner
exactly similar to that seen in the phenomena of post-hypnotic
suggestion.
The simplest example of this reaction we have seen in the ex-
837
838 M.A.RGERY MEDIUMSHIP
periment of Jan. 4, 19-28, in which Margery reproduced in auto-
matic script the No. 10 of the calendar and the circle which
had been. selected by Walter-Margery in the dark. We have
seen, however, this preliminary simplicity of procedure dis-
appear very rapidly with each succeeding experiment. First
two and then three mediums instead of Margery alone come
under the Walter-Margery influence even though they are
widely separated in space. Next, Walter sits alone at Lime
Street, and becomes apparently entirely separated from Mar-
gery who then becomes a simple recipient with no trace of
agency. Walter .then, from a distance, drives his team of three
mediums with the same unimpaired skill as was exhibited with
Margery alone.
Finally, Walter, having thoroughly prepared the way, stands
aside and allows the Chinese entities, known as Confucius and
his disciples, to come in and drive his well-trained steeds, in
the circus of post-hypnotic suggestion.
But we began with the simple idea that Margery's trance
was self-induced, that clairvoyance supervened, and that the
post-hypnotic effects were simply those exercised by Walter-
Margery, a s condary Margery personality. How can this hy-
pothesis suffice when Walter continues his control with Margery
eight miles away, and extends this control to two other far
distant mediums, and when numbers, :figures and sentiments
expressed in English and initiated in Boston are translated
within a few minutes into good Chinese, hundreds of miles
away~
If the Chinese writing represented only quotations from
already existing Chinese printed literature one might perhaps
seek the origin in travelling-clairvoyance of a Walter-Margery
personality with as a result a sort of rudimentary book-test.
In these experiments however, many of the words, numbers,
and sentiments are known to no one till the time of the sitting,
and must be translated on the spur of the moment by minds
familiar with both English and Chinese. By no stretch of the
imagination can any Margery personality be endowed with a
knowledge of Chinese. Equally improbable is the idea that the
SUl\'L\IIARY OF CROSS CORRESPONDENCES 839
Chinese entities know much English. Just how the translating
is done is far from clear. Perhaps the answer lies in 'Walter's
reiterated statement that, on his plane, language is unneces-
sary; that thoughts and ideas impelled in any desired direction,
reach their destination and are assimilated without any mecliat-
ing apparatus.
Naturally, for communication under our human conditions,
the mediating script or voice becomes indispensable.
All of which discussion, of course, does not touch the ques-
tion of almost simultaneous transfer of these translated ideas
to two other mediums widely separated in space. The condi-
tions must differ widely from those under which previous tele-
pathic experiments have been carried out. Hitherto telepathy
has in most instances required intense mental concentration by
the agent. In our experiments the communicating medium has
been so sensitive that irrelevant facts, even, have encountered
practically no resistance to passage.
Under the circumstances all must agree, I think, that in
harmonizing the facts the simplest explanation is the spiritistic
one-that 'Walter is what he claims to be, the still-existent
brother of Margery; that through years of patient experimenta-
tion, assisted by the persistent cooperation of the Lime Street
circle, he has mastered many of the conditions incident to
mediumship in general, and that of Margery in particular; that
the control thus gained is not restricted to physical conditions~
but is now becoming extended so as to include mental phe-
nomena; that this mental control can under proper supervision
be delegated to other entities, such as the Chinese who exist
apparently under conditions similar to his own; that this con-
. trol is independent of space conditions and has some relation
to the physics of wireless, in which domain vValter promises
enormous progress during the next few years. An interesting
point in this connection is Walter's statement that, in order to
be able to get into communication with any individual, mediumis-
tic or otherwise, on our plane, he must :first have had personal
touch with him-possibly in order to get his wave-length.
Because the spiritistic explanation is simple does not, of
840 MARGERY MEDIUl\tiSHIP
course, assure its truth. Neither should its simplicity require
its rejection.
The facts as submitted are most extraordinary and thejr
elucidation will require long-continued consideration by the best
equipped minds. Their validity is so obvious to those in closest
touch with the case that hesitation is felt in touching at all upon
this feature. In conclusion, however, the question of fraud
versus genuineness may be considered long enough to pQint
out the following facts:
Some, of course, of the phenomena which I have described
will yield to the theory that the room is not really dark, that
the Psychic is able normally to get visual sensations from the
material used-a theory quite wide of the evident facts but
nevertheless one that is persistently advanced by the absente.e
critic. But we come in this paper to a very extensive series of
facts which require more than this; which require a pre-arrange-
ment between Margery and the other mediums, the sitters, the
recorders, and even outsiders like the Chinese translators. It
is evident, however, that there comes a point at which this
hypothesis of universal confederacy must stop; or if not this,
that the entire present report must be dismissed off-hand
as a deliberate fabrication in the interests of a false medium-
ship. It is respectfully submitted that no critic who hesitates
at this logical climax may by any means escape the hypothesis of
validity. The facts here chronicled constitute conclusive proof
of the existence of Margery's supernormal faculties, and the
strongest sort of evidence that these work through the agency
of her deceased brother Walter.
ASPR PROCEEDINGS VOLUME 3
Walter S. Stinson
"Margery"
PROCEEOINGS
of the
AMERICAN SOCIETY !or
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
VOL. XXII
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
THE "WALTER" HANDS
A Study of Their Dermatoglyphics
by
Brackett K. Thorogood
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
15 Lexington Avenue
New York
1933
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAP'l'ER PAGE
Preface. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v
I: Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
II: Defmition of Certain Terms and Certain Preliminary Matters. . . . . . . . 3
III: 'l'he "vValter" Hands. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
I V: 'l'he "Walter" Fingers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
V: The "Walter" Finger Tips ..... ... ............. .. . ... ... ........ 29
VI: Types of Finger Patterns. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
VII: The "Walter" Palms... . ... ..... . . ... . .. . .. .. . . .. . ......... .. . .. 32
VIII: Paraffin Gloves. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
IX: Early Wax Impressions... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
X : Classification of Waxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
XI: Prints Obtained at Solus Sittings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
XII: Impressions Other Than "vValter 's"... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
XIII: Impressions Made Under Unusual Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
XIV: Special Cases. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
XV: Mi..xed Prints. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
XVI: Changed Impressions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
XVII: Compal"ison of the Hands of ''Margery' ', '' Vvalter '' and ''Dr. X ' '. . 97
XVIII: Certain Criticisms. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115.
Conclusions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140.
Appendices :
I ..... . .... . .. . . .. . . . . .... .... . . .. . .. ... ... . ..... . . ... . 157
II .. . ..... . . ....................... ..... ...... . . . .. .... 157
III ..... .. ... . .. . .. . .. ... ...... ........... .. . . . .......... 158:
IV . ... ... .. .. ... . ..... . . . . ..... . .. .... . ... . .. . ... ... . . .. 162
v......... ... . .. ....... ... ...... .... .. .. .............. 16(3:
VI . ..... .... . . . . .. . . .... .. .. . . .. ... .. ........... . .. .. ... 182:
VII . .. . .. . . . . ........... .. . . . . ....... . . ............... .. . 1901
VIII . ........ . .. ..... .. . .. . .. .. .. .. . . . .... . . ... . : . .. ...... 195
IX . .... . ... ... ..... .. .. .. .. . ... . . ....... ..... . ....... .. . 196
X . ..... . .... .... . . .. ..... . ............... . .... . ..... .. . 197
XI .... ..... ........... .. . .. . ... . ...................... . 198
XII .... . . . . . . .... . ... . ... .. . .. .. .. . .... . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . .. 199
XIII ......... .... . .... ....... ..... .. . . . . . . ... . .. ......... 199
XIV .. ... .. . .......... . . .. . . . ... ... . .... .. .. . . . .. ...... .. . 200
XV.................... .. ..... . ............ ...... . . . ... . 201
XVI . .... ... .... .... .. ........... ...... .... . ..... . ........ 20·3
XVII ...... . ... . ......... . .... . ............. .. ...... .. ..... 209
XVIII............ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211
XIX ..... . ... . ... . . . .. ... ... . . .. ... ..... .. . . ..... ... . ... . . 212
XX .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . .... .. .. .. . .... .. .............. . ...... . 212
XXI . ... ... . . ..... ... ..... .. .... . ... .. .. . .... .... ......... 215
XXII ...... .. . .. .... .. .. . ............. ... . .. . ........ . . .... 215
XXIII . . ..... . . . .. . .... ... . . . . ... . ... .. .... .. . ..... .. .. .. ... 218
XXIV ..... . ... . .. ... .... . .. . ... ... ........ . . . . ..... . .. . ... 222
XXV . ... . .. ....... . ...... .. ....... . ........ . ... . . . .... ... . 223
XXVI . ..... ... ... .... . .. . ..... . ..... . . ...... . ... . ......... . 224
Bibliography. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
PREFACE.
The purpose of this third volume of Proceedings on th<'! Mar-
gery Mediumship is to present a report of certain investigations
of the :finger-print phenomena, made by Mr. Brackett K. Thoro-
good, Research Consultant of the Society. The circumstances
which occasioned the investigation require a somewhat detailed
statement of explanation, not only to insure a complete under-
standing of the Report, but also to make them a matter of
permanent record in the history of the case.
Beginning in 1924 efforts were made to repeat in this me-
diumship the production of paraffin gloves that Geley had
obtained in his experiments with the medium Kluski. A number
of such gloves were obtained. Out of this gradually developed
the notion of obtaining :finger prints of "Walter," the control.
No one, of course, had any knowledge whatever or, indeed, any
theory as to how the :finger-print patterns of a dead man could
persist and be reproduced through a mediumistic agency;
but the development of this mediumship has been characterized
throughout by a definite plan of proposing to the control
a series of problems of constantly increasing complexity
and apparent difficulty designed to test in an experimental
manner the scope and essential nature of the powers exercised
by the control. 'The registering of :finger prints was one of the
problems thus presented to "Walter." Various media were
tried, including ink, paraffin smeared on glass, and several
plastic substances; but with no very great success. By :filling
the paraffin gloves with plaster of Paris and thus obtaining
molds of the hands, it was found that a model of the surface
structure of the teleplasmic hand or :fingers was obtained, but
the details of the pattern were seldom clear and the process
was very cumbersome and uncertain.
On July 30, 19·26, "Margery" visited her dentist, Dr. "X"
of Boston, who had been a frequent sitter at the seances held
v
Vl PREFACE
during the first year or so of the mediumship, but who had not
been present since 1924. She discussed with Dr. "X" the prog-
ress of the phenomena and particularly the efforts to obtain
finger prints and the difficulty of finding a proper substance to
receive the impressions. He suggested the use of a dental wax
called ''Kerr'' and showed her how to use it by making on sam-
·ple pieces several impressions of his own thumbs. ''Margery''
returned home in the late afternoon with these impressions
and a number of pieces of unused wax, and found there Mr.
Charles S. Hill, Mr. E . E. Dudley, ~h. Wendell P. Murray, a
la·wyer of Boston, and Dr. and Mrs. E. W. Brown. Dr. Brown
had called to attend "Margery's" mother who was ill.
"Margery" told this group about the "Kerr" and showed them
the impressions that Dr. "X" had made. It was decided to try
the new wax at a seance to be held in the evening. Mr. Dudley,
who was particularly interested in the :finger-print experiments,
was given the used waxes and took them away with him.
It is necessary to state that Mr. Dudley not only denies that
he received the waxes impressed by Dr. "X," but also claims
further that he did not then even lmow that Dr. X had made
any impressions at all. On the evidence, however, we are satis-
fied that the facts are as above stated.
At the seance that evening Mr. Dudley was present, the
"Kerr" was used and several prints were obtained. The results
were highly satisfactory, and thereafter "]{err" was used e~­
clusively in all finger-print experiments. Upwards of 200 prints
have since been obtained on "Kerr," most of them being claimed
by "Walter" to be prints of his own thumbs.
Experiments with the thumb-print phenomena continued
intermittently for the ensuing five years with Mr. Dudley in
general charge and supervision of the work. ·with no initial
experience in the subject he applied himself diligently to the
task of becoming familiar with finger-print science and prac-
tice, made the acquaintance of several police experts, discussed
the subject with them and soon began to consider himself an
'expert. In collaboration with J . Malcolm Bird, who was then
Research Officer o£ the .Society, Mr. Dudley prepared the series
PREFACE Vll
of articles describing the finger-print experiments which were
published in the Journal during 1928, and others which were
published in 1929.
Mr. Bird ceased to be Research Officer in January, 1931,
leaving in galley or page proof an unfinished manuscript of a
proposed volume of Proceedings dealing with the Margery case
which included a somewhat lengthy account of the finger-print
experiments prepared by or with the collaboration of Mr. Dud-
ley. Mr. Dudley was suggested as a candidate to succeed Mr.
Bird as Research Officer. He was not appointed, but was
specially employed by the Society to rewrite the manuscript and
complete it for publication. This job was nearly finished and
most of the corrected proofs returned to the Society/ when, on
March 11, 193'2, Mr. Dudley wrote Mr. W. H. Button, President
of the Society, saying that he had ''additional evidence,'' on
the finger-print experiments which would require ''some
changes" in the text of the Proceedings, "not extensive but
involving a paragraph here and there.''
A week later, after an interview with "Margery" herein-
after referred to, Mr. Dudley wrote another letter to Mr. Button
elaborating the somewhat cryptic statement of the first letter
and claiming that he had discovered that the so-called "Walter"
prints were in fact identical with the prints of a living man,
one of the early sitters. These two letters are printed as
Appendices I and II on page 15,
7, infra. It later developed that
the early sitter referred to was "Margery's" dentist, Dr. "X."
Other correspondence with Mr. Dudley followed and on April
4th Mr. Button and Mr. Walton, Chairman of the Research
Committee of the Board of Trustees, interviewed Mr. Dudley
at length on the subject, in Boston. He was told that the matter
of his new evidence would be carefully investigated and con-
sidered, and was requested to prepare for the Society a publish-
able statement of his discovery and what he claimed in respect
thereto. This he promised to do, saying that it would take
him only a few days. If the promise was sincere when made
1 This is referred to by Mr. Thorogood as "Manuscript Proceedings."
viii PREFACE
other factors seem soon to have intervened to mold the situa-
tion for other purposes than the scientific study of the case.
Frequent requests to Mr. Dudley thereafter for his promised
statement were not complied with until June 13th when a state-
ment was received by Mr. Button with a somewhat peremptory
demand for prompt publication. On June 13th he was invited
to come to New York at the Society's expense to confer with
the Research Committee on the subject, but this he at once
declined to do. Investigations conducted in the meantime re-
vealed that negotiations were under way for the publication
of the story as a sensational expose in a popular weekly maga-
zine of wide circulation.
It was then decided that before anything was published by
the Society on the matter a full and adequate examination of
all the facts was imperative, and Mr. Dudley was informed that
the Society had adopted that policy and that when such examina-
tion was concluded the full facts would be published with all
the relevant evidence. Mr. Dudley's statement and exhibits
were returned to him at his request. In view of the impending
publicity a statement briefly explaining the situation was in-
serted in the July number of the Journal. For ready reference
this statement is reprinted as Appendix III on page 158f£, infra.
The story was ultimately rejected by the popular magazine,
but Mr. Dudley found a publisher in Dr. W. F. Prince of the
Boston S.P.R. which printed a somewhat revised and expanded
article in Bulletin XVIII, in October, 1932, with supporting
articles by Hereward Carrington and Arthur Goadby. Mr.
Goadby shortly thereafter resigned as a Trustee of the A.S.P.R.
As the alleged excuse for noticing the matter at all Dr. Prince,
as editor of the Bulletin, prefaced it with a claim that the facts
were being threatened with suppression by this Society. A
further comment a propos Bulletin XVIII was thereupon pub-
lished in the Journal for November, 1932, and is likewise
reprinted, as Appendix IV, page l62f£, infra. Dr. Prince, rely-
ing heavily on Mr. Dudley's alleged discovery, subsequently
announced publicly that the mediumship had suffered a stroke
of paralysis, is a patent fraud, and its supporters dupes. He
PREFACE ix
also makes·denunciatory capital out of the claim that Mr. Dud-
ley, from being an ardent advocate and supporter of the medium-
ship, has been compelled at last to become an exposer of the·
case and has in fact dealt it a death blow by his discovery.
In Bulletin XVIII it is suggested both by Mr. Dudley and
by Mr. Goadby that the motives and sincerity of Mr. Dudley
had been brought into question by the officers of this Society,
and that doubts were entertained as to the authenticity of his
data. Mr. Dudley's motives are obviously of no importance
if his evidence is valid and the identity he claims a real one.
The Society, therefore, is not interested in probing them pe1·
sese, because the issue is solely one of objective fact. But on that
issue the surroundi.ng circumstances are relevant and material,.
including any motive or bias that might operate to affect the
credibility or impartiality of a person on whose testimony some
of the evidence rests. Furthermore, since he himself has publicly
raised the question of his motives, and his editorial sponsor·
has publicly in subsequent writings and with no known dissent
by Mr. Dudley presented him as an investigator who has been
compelled solely by evidence, more or less accidentally dis-
covered, to reverse his scientific judgment on the case, something
must be said about Mr. Dudley's relations with Lime Street and
various aspects of his conduct directly connected with the matter
at issue.
It is always unpleasant to discuss personalities, but the
duty to set forth the facts relevant to the matter covered by
this Report is inescapable. Too often has charitable reticence
suppressed facts that should be known if the truth is to be·
uncovered and false claims refuted.
In February, 1925, 1\/[r. Dudley introduced himself to "Mar-
gery" by a fulsome letter commending her course in the face
of the criticism and controversy then rao·ing in the newspapers
over the case. He was later personally presented at Lime
Street and attended many sittings. He displayed great interest
in and familiarity with the history and literature of psychical
research. His personal experience with the physical phenomena
of me.diumship was limited, but he developed facility in assisting·
X PREFACE
at the seances and an eager desire to be useful. He wrote for
the newspapers letters and articles discussing the case and its
investigators, and at all times talked voluminously and with
seeming understanding of the problems presented by the various
-experiments carried on. He became very friendly with the
-entire Crandon family, enjoyed the run of the house and was
fully trusted. He had some mechanical skill and was helpful in
arranging and in handling apparatus. He finally became a regu-
lar member of the Lime Street group, came and went as ·he
pleased and for him the house was al·ways open, day or night.
After a while it developed that he was somewhat needy :finan-
cially and for a long period Dr. Crandon paid him for his serv-
ices. He became a sort of seance-room maj~r-domo and general
assistant. As the finger-print program developed his eager-
ness and facility in picking up the details and technique of
finger-print practice soon gave him a somewhat dominating
position as one who knew the subject far better than anyone
in the group, and he was given general charge of the experi-
ments. He ordinarily marked and dated the waxes, made the
analyses and classifications of the prints and attended to photo-
graphing the exhibits. He took the waxes home with him at
any and all times and retained them without question for as
long as he wished. He kept lengthy detailed records of the
seances. The work of preparing accounts of the experiments
for publication was largely and in many respects exclusively
his. No one, in fact, was more intimately familiar than Mr.
Dudley with the entire mediumship and particularly with every
-step and detail of the finger-print program, its origin and its
development and the daily reactions toward it of the entire
Lime Street group.
In the fall of 1929 Mr. B. K. Thorogood was brought to
Lime Street by Mr. Dudley who says he ''took him in as a
·collaborator.'' Because of Mr. ·Thorogood 's interest in the sub-
ject he became a frequent if not a regular attendant at the
·seances. He had skill and ability and wide experience in several
lines of scientific work and was so keenly intelligent in applying
l1is trained mind to the problems presented in the case; that
PREFACE Xl
the circle became convinced that he might easily become a real
leader in the scientific study of the subject. In the summer
or fall of 1930 Dr. Crandon decided to put Mr. Thorogood in
full control of the seances. He announced this arrangement
rather abruptly without previous warning and informed the
group, including Mr. Dudley, that thereafter Mr. Thorogood
would have entire charge. No one could come to a seance
without the consent of Mr. Thorogood who was to have sole
direction of initiating and conducting future experiments. .The
announcement was somewhat of a blow to Mr. Dudley who says
"I found myself forced out"; but he, nevertheless, continued
for a while to attend some of the seances and to work on the
re-writing of the Proceedings Manuscript. He soon complained
that Mr. Thorogood was appropriating his ideas of research
and became somewhat sullen and morose. Later some one
interfered with and sabotaged certain of the experimental ap-
paratus that Mr. Thorogood had set up in the seance room, and
Dr. Crandon quietly put a lock on the seance-room door. Mr.
Dudley, to his great discomfiture, for tho :first time did not
have the freedom of that room and upon discovering the lock
flew into a temper. Although invited to the seances he thereafter
gradually dropped out.
Mr. Dudley's growing sense of ill treatment and resentment
was further accentuated when he learned that the Society had
formally engaged Mr. Thorogood as a Research Consultant
to undertake a series of new experiments with the medium-
ship. The man Mr. Dudley introduced to Lime Street had, in
Mr. Dudley's opinion, completely supplanted him and was,
moreover, about to appropriate as his own, ideas and sugges-
tions of which Mr. Dudley claimed to be the author. Nursing
his feelings of disappointment and resentment Mr. Dudley ab-
sented himself completely from Lime Street and embarked upon
the efforts that brought about the announcement of his alleged
discovery.
In March, 1932, "Margery" learned that Mr. Dudley had
been to her doctor's office and had asked for his :finger prints
under circumstances that caused the doctor some embarrass-
xii PREFACE
ment. The doctor protested to "Margery." She sent for Mr.
Dudley, who on March 18th, spent some time at Lime Street
telling.her that he had just discovered that the "vValter" prints~
were identical with those of her dentist and displaying photo-
graJlhs arranged to demonstrate the identity. He talked about
the mills of the gods grinding slowly; admitted that he w~s­
incensed at the way he had been treated and announced a con-
viction that he must publish the story. On the same evening he·
wrote the letter to Mr. Button which is printed as Appendix II.
..tUter the announcement of his alleged discovery Mr. Dudley
undertook to minimize the importance of the part he played
in the development and conduct of the :finger-print experiments.
In a letter to Mr. Button dated March 27, 1932, he said:
"I have never controlled the course of these :finger-print
experiments, never occupied the position of control while·
they were being made, nor had a solus sitting. The prints-
are made in darkness, therefore, I am dependent on the
statements of others as to most of their actions, and these
statements I must take on faith, as must the reader of the-
reports. If these statements are unreservedly accepted it
would appear that a considerable number of the prints.
were made supernormally. I have testified to my part in
these sittings, and to my knowledge as to what others have·
or have not done. Beyond that I cannot properly go.''
Theoretically this statement is fair enough and, aside from
the questions of fact it involves, is unexceptional and sound
if applied to strangers or fortuitous collaborators dealing with
a matter as among themselves at arm's length and with allow-
able mutual suspicion of each other's good faith and competency.
Practically the statement assumes, contrary to the fact, that.
such was the situation Mr. Dudley occupied at Lime Street.
It implies the harboring of a contemporaneous suspicion on
his part as to the good faith of the medium and sitters that
did not in fact exist. If Mr. Dudley sought to imply by his
statement that he distrusted the Lime Street group or any of
them or any person taking part in the seances as observer or·
PREFACE Xlll
.active participant, and that he thought there was any reason
to question their good faith or to believe there was collusion
.and confederacy to deceive, or even any suspicion thereof, it
is strange that the :first indication of such an attitude came
only after he, as he has said, was "forced out" and had a
,grievance. If he, in fact, had suspicions, justified or not, that
any one of his collaborators was lying or unintentionally making
inaccurate or untrue statements as to any part of the seance ac-
tion, his suppression of the fact was unethical in respect to the
Society which accepted his written work as sincere. We feel
it is more consistent with the facts to interpret the resort to
theoretical distrust of other witnesses as an attempt to escape
from his frequently announced convictions of supernormality,
.and leave the way open for others to imply that Mr. Dudley
entertained suspicions of fraudulent manipulations. Such
technique is revealing as to some things but does not add any-
thing of value to the subject and cannot be honored as a legiti-
mate part of scientific methodology.
After the receipt of Mr. Dudley's letter of March 18th Mr.
Thorogood was instructed to suspend all other work with the
·case and undertake, along any lines he might determine, a care-
ful, exhaustive and unsparing examination of the whole series
·of finger-print phenomena with particular reference to the
alleged identity of the "Walter" prints with those of Dr. "X,"
.and report the result of his study for publication with as much
speed as possible.
Mr. Thorogood was well qualified for the task. After at-
tending the old Chauncey Hall School in Boston he received
professional training in mechanical and electrical engineering
at the Lowell Institute School of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. He practiced his profession for twenty years
and for ten years was instructor in the Mechanical Ei1gineering
Department of the Graduate School of Engineering of Harvard
University from which he resigned to take charge of the ret
habilitation and training of ex-service men as Educational
Counselor at Franklin Union, a technical institute in Boston.
He has 'remained in charge of its day courses ever since. Dur-
XlV PREFACE
ing his years at Harvard University he took various courses
in science, engineering, mathematics and psychology, and served
as consultant in engineering and research, and as personnel
expert for large industrial plants. During the World War, in
addition to his other activities, he was employed on aeronau-
tical work and as instructor for officers in the mathematics of
heavy artillery fire. For more than thirty years Mr. Thoro-
good has pursued the study of abnormal psychology and psy-
chic phenomena as an avocation. In June, 1931, he was engaged
as Research Consultant by the American Society for Psychical
Research.
In presenting his report on the finger-print phenomena we
wish to commend the skill, perseverance and courage Mr. Thoro-
good has displayed in doing the necessary work. A constant
barrage of criticism from many quarters for alleged delay in
concluding his investigation served only to quicken his sense
of responsibility for accurate, dependable study of the facts and
sound conclusions. vVe hope the report will be found by.com-
petent critics to embody all of these.
On the merits of the issue as to the identity of the "Walter"
prints we leave the matter to be judged upon the evidence and
inferences contained in the Report; but we believe that the
alleged identity has been disproved. Mr. Thorogood's report
shows that so many elements of uncertainty and so many suspi-
cious and ambiguous circumstances surround the waxes used
by Mr. Dudley as alleged examples of "\iValter" prints, that
any careful and impartial reader must feel, as we do, that their
authenticity as genuine seance room productions has been wholly
impeached or at least so seriously brought into question that
they must in the end be disregarded as data in reaching any
disinterested judgment on the real merits of the question. In
planning his investigation Mr. Thorogood undertook first to
secure under his own control new data that could ·not be ques-
tioned as to authenticity and would be free from any possible
doubt as to origin and subsequent his-tory. The fundamental
soundness of such procedure will, ·we believe, be conceded by
the most meticulous stickler for scientific methodology. The
PREFACE XV
''standard vValter hands'' thus obtained are in themselves a
remarkable result of applying experimental laboratory technique
to the study of mediumistic phenomena, and constitute a notable
achievement in research.
\iVhatever conclusion one may come to on the issue of iden-
tity, however, there will remain the problem of how the prints
are obtained. The evidence bearing on that problem, we believe,
rules out normal action, fraud and trickery as the explanation.
The records of the seances at which prints ..were obtained are
voluminous and circumstantial, but unfortunately the great
majority of them have never been published. Accounts of
typical seances may be found in the Journal of the Society for
1928-1932.
For convenient reference and as illustrations of the cir-
cumstances under which finger impressions are obtained, .we
print as Appendix V, page 16()ff, infra, the record of a seance
held on April 10, 1928, in which Dr. R. J . Tillyard, F .R.S., as
the sole sitter, obtained three prints under conditions of con-
trol that were beyond criticism; and as Appendix VI, page
182Jf, infra, the record of a seance held March 11, 1931, at which
Mr. vV. H . Button as the sole sitter procured a print while the
medium was bound to her chair with surgeon's tape in such a
manner that she could move neither hand nor foot. The hy-
pothesis of fraud or trickery in these two seances, as in many
others, can be maintained only by the most obdurate of skeptics.
The evidence not only rules out fraud but, we believe, over-
whelmingly demonstrates that the prints obtained in the ''Mar-
gery" seances are supernormally produced. For a brief dis-
cussion of the meaning of this expression as used in this
connection see page 3ff, inf1e
a. No one, not excepting Dr.
Crandon or the medium herself, had fuller or better opportunity
than Mr. Dudley to know the facts and to detect any fraudulent
or normal factor, or any suspicion thereof, in the process of
production. That he at any time detected and for any reason
whatever st1ppressed mention of any such circumstances, is
quite unbelievable; and no one has as yet suggested such con-
duct by Mr. Dudley as even remotely possible. He, on the
xvi PREFACE
·contrary, in season and out of season, orally and in published
writings, has maintained that the evidence justifies acceptance
·of the supernormality of the phenomena as a fact, and that he
today believes there was any element of fraud, trickery or
-
deception involved is not at all credible. The belief or opinion
-of any one person as to such a matter is, of course, rather
unimportant, unless he be a person of such qualifications, accom-
-plishments and general reputation that his opinion would be
.accepted as per se weighty evidence. In the instant situation
Mr. Dudley's belief or opinion is of some relevancy because
it is being represented to be hostile to the honesty of the me-
-diumship under circumstances that are expected to give it great
weight in the minds of the public. It thus becomes a proper
inquiry to ask what is Mr. Dudley's opinion on the value of
the evidence as proof of fraud in the case. Direct questions
to him on the point have been evaded.
Assuming- that the identity of the " ·Walter" prints with
those of Dr. "X" is established, Mr. Dudley might, indeed,
say with consistency that claiming as his own the finger-prints
·Of another is a serious reflection upon the reputation of
"Walter" for truth and veracity; but he would not, we believe,
voluntarily say that in his judgment it proved or even indicated
fraud in any degree on the part of the medium or anyone con-
nected with the seances. The theory of the matter that it pre-
sents a sort of practical joke by the control would add one more
problem no less intriguing than many others in the subject. In
.a letter to Mr. Button on Marcl;l. 24, 1932, Mr. Dudley said :
''From a strictly scientific standpoint identification (of the
prints) has very little bearing on the question of a supernormal
·versus a normal origin.''
It was obvious, nevertheless, that if the prints claimed to
·be "Wlllter's" were in fact identical with those of Dr. "X" a
conclusion of fraud would immediately be drawn and heralded
by everyone interested in discrediting the subject in general
and the Margery Mediumship in particular. The event justified
the prediction. Mr. Dudley was of course well aware of this
inevitable result. He did not have to cry fraud himself; if so
minded, he had only to invite others to do so, and then enjoy
PREFACE XVll
the prominence and publicity that would be accorded to him
at the expense of the Crandons.
No fault can be found with Mr. Dudley for making the dis-
covery, if he did make it, or for using it if possible in any
proper way for his own advantage. And, of course, no honest
person would advocate suppressing any real evidence, regard-
less of what it might prove or how disturbing it might be to
the people involved or how disastrous to their reputations. The
Society, on the other hand, recognized that the circumstances
surrounding the alleged discovery raised so many suspicions
as to the reality of the alleged identity and the validity of the
evidence offered in its support, that careful investigation before
accepting Mr. Dudley's story and giving it official publicity
was not only a reasonable course to follow but a compulsory
one in fairness to all concerned. The certainty of misinter-
pretation, malicious and otherwise, of that course, if adopted
by the Society, was fully realized, but the risk was gladly
assumed. Fear of unjust criticism is never a deterrent to
r0sponsible action soundly conceived. The very violence,
moreover, of Mr. Dudley's asserted belief in the simplicity
of the question and in the utter :finality and conclusiveness
of his case for the alleged identity, and his desire for
jmmediate publication of his account without waiting for the
matter to be looked into or checked by anyone else, added con-
siderably to the feeling that the question was not so simple and
·that the merits of the issue were not .to be so easily foreclosed
and did not interest him so deeply as a desire to captme a
certain fame and to disturb the peace of mind of his former
friends and associates and expose them to the discomfort of
an attack upon their honor and integrity which was sure to
follow. In pursuing the course he took, whether on his own
initiative or under the prodding of others with their own par-
ticular ends to serve, we feel that Mr. Dudley departed very
far from the path of a disinterested investigator, and justified
an inference that there was something material hidden in the
situation that only the most careful investigation would disclose.
The Society was thus abundantly justified in adopting the course
it took of investigating the claim first and publishing the results
xviii PREFACE
only when the work was completed. Itch for publicity is the
last passion that should afflict a scientist or a researcher in this
field.
In January, 1930, before the discordant circumstances above
referred to had developed, Mr. Dudley contributed to the Jour-
nal a theoretical discussion of the reversal of psychic casts and
an ''Analysis of the Finger-print Problem on the Basis That a
Mold or Molds Are Used in Their Production.'' The latter part
of the article we reprint as Appendix VII, pages 190f£ (Psy-
chic Research, Vol. XXIV, pp. 32-34, Jan., 1930). Mr. Dudley
there convincingly argued that the use of rigid molds to pro-
duce the prints was an ''assumption palpably absurd,'' and
that the use of flexible molds for such purpose presented
difficulties which made the second assumption almost equally
improbable. The hypothesis of "ideoplastic production," (a
theoretical supernormal process) was then suggested by Mr.
Dudley as well supported by the evidence.
There is no subsequent statement by Mr. Dudley that we
know of, which in any way answers, modifies or is inconsistent
with the arguments advanced by him in that article, and it is,
we believe, a fair statement to say that Mr. Dudley today still
clings in his own mind to the supernormal ideoplastic hypothesis
of production as true, whether the prints are, as he claims,
identical with those of a living man, or are not.
Mr. Dudley himself has in fact not charged fraud in the
case, and we do not believe that, in his right mind and acting ·
voluntarily, he will. I-Ie is content to let others bear the odium
or enjoy the credit for such a charge. His close association, how-
ever, since 1931 with those who do charge fraud and his willing-
ness to remain silent on that specific issue while they defame the
mediumship largely on the basis of his statements, is a situation
from which inferences relevant to the merits of the issue may
be legitimately drawn. Our own inference is that it destroys
any possible belief in the good faith of Mr. Dudley and fatally
impairs his credibility as a reliable investigator. Beyond that,
we think, no inference relevant to the issue can properly be
dra··wn. Mr. Dudley may assert, and in fact has asserted, that
he has simply stated the facts and is not responsible in any way
PREFACE xi.x
for what others may charge, or for the inferences that others
may draw from the facts he claims to be established. This
position, we believe, under the circumstances is an insincere
pose, without even technical propriety, much less ethical justifi-
cation. Having assumed to hold himself out publicly as a
scientific investigator and an authority on the subject for over
six years, and having accepted employment by the Society on
that basis, Mr. Dudley cannot so easily evade the duty to be
frank with the public and the Society which gave him a forum
and opportunity to speak to those interested. His complete
silence as to charges of fraud made largely, as he well knows,
as inferences from his supposed discovery, indicates, not devo-
tion to truth and adherence to scientific methodology, but sim-
ply a willingness to let others, his associates and friends of the
moment, inflict the wounds which he cannot honestly or decently
inflict himself. If one does draw the inference that Mr. Dudley
by his silence concurs in the charges of fraud, we believe that
a willingness to allow his position on so important a matter
to be left in any doubt is equally discreditable. Psychical re-
search is not advanced by such methods, but encountering them
in the subject is, unhappily, a frequent experience and to the
serious student they finally become like barnacles on a ship that
moves forward despite them but makes better progress when
they are removed.
We are not at all sure that all of the circumstances pertinent
to the problem have as yet been uncovered, because much is
involved that cannot be subjected to laboratory analysis.
But within the limits of their ability and with the means
at hand, the Society and its Research Consultant have sought
to present fairly and in precise and accurate form ·all the facts
and evidence that have been discovered or found available that
seem relevant to an understanding of the finger-print phenomena
and the claim as to identity of the prints. It is hoped that this
volume of Proceedings may be found a worthy contribution
to the history of the case and of value in the solution of prob-
lems presented by one of its most intricate and interesting
phases.
THE "MARGERY" MEDIUMSHIP
THE "WALTER" HANDS
A STUDY OF THEIR DERMATOGLYPHICS
''Read not to con·tmclic"t and confute, no1· to
believe anc1 take [o1· gmntecl, no1· to find talk
and c1isco~t1'se, but to weigh anc1 canside1·.''
BACON
I
INTRODUCTION
In the Spring of 1932, the writer was asked by the Research
Committee of the American Society for Psychical Research to
review from the beginning all available material and subject
matter pertaining to the :finger impressions, claimed to be super-
normal, which for the past eight years had been a feature of
the "Margery" medit1mship, for the purpose of determining
whether there was sufficient evidence of the uniqueness of these
prints to answer satisfactorily any possible question as to their
identity, authenticity and supernormality.
The immediate occasion for this investigation arose out of
the announcement by Mr. E. E. Dudley that he had discovered
that the :finger impressions claimed to be "Walter's" were in
fact identical with those of a living man, and our study was
to include an examination of all the available evidence bearing
on that claim.
The details of this investigation and the conclusions to which
it has led us are set forth in this report.
At the very beginning of our task we found that the early
records were not sufficiently complete or accurate to serve
as the sole basis of our study, so it became necessary for
us to conduct further experiments for the purpose of securing
additional data from our own observations of the phenomena
and under our own conditions of control.
1
2 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The documentary record of this mediumship disclosed from
the beginning a persistent attempt to apply to the study of the
phenomena produced a laboratory technique of experimentation,
and the experiments which we initiated and carried through
were in themselves a test of the repeatability of the phenomena
under new and rigorous conditions. The results of our efforts
constitute what we consider well-nigh conclusive evidence of
the validity and supernormality of the phenomena studied.
We also found it necessary to make a careful study of the
dermatoglyphics of many of the earlier prints, and of the pos-
sibility of artificial duplication as well as of the production of
replicas by normal means, all of which entailed correspondence
with experts both in this country and abroad.
In addition, a great deal of experimental and photographic
work was carried on in the laboratory in order to check various
phases of this study.
Our conclusions, therefore, have been reached after an ex-
haustive study of all the early material that was available, such
as contemporaneous records, literature, photographs, ink-prints,
paraffin gloves, plaster casts and waxes, as well as of new and
authentic wax impressions, made both in relief and intaglio
and obtained in connection with this study through the medium
"Margery" under controlled conditions in the presence of only
ihe writer, his associates and the official stenographer.
II
DEFINITION OF CERTAIN TERMS
AND
CERTAIN PRELIMINARY MATTERS
In order that our meaning may be quite clear as we progress
with this report, it may be well to present here our interpre-
tation of several terms which we shall have frequent occasion
to employ, such as "Walter" thumb imp?"essions, "Walter"
voice, and such words as supernonnal, identity and authenticity.
We are using the word supernormal in the sense in which
it is employed by Osty, Geley, and other writers on psychic
phenomena.
Osty, in his work entitled ''Supernormal Faculties in Man''
(p. 11) writes: "\Ve can therefore take as 'supernormal' all
knowledge which reaches us by other means than by the activity
of the mind working on the direct or indirect reports of the
known senses''.
Geley, in his volume "From the Unconscious to the Con-
scious" (pp. 261-2) says: "There is no hard and fast line be-
tween the normal and the supernormal; both have their origins
in the vital process~ts and the only difference is that the one is
familiar to us and therefore gives us the illusion of under-
standing it while the other derives its occult character from the
fact that it is unusual." Further on, he says: "In fine, there
is no supernormal, as there are no miracles ! The supernormal
is but the unusual manifestation of Self, released by decentrali-
sation, revealing itself by all its powers, even those that are
highest and most latent; in contrast with the normal psychic
life which only allows of narrow manifestations, strictly con-
fined within bounds of material 'representation.' ''
By "vValter thumb impressions," we mean those impres-
:flions, generally made in · a plastic, which have been obtained
in the seance room during experiments carried on by the Lime
3
4 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Street group and others, and which the "Walter" voice (which
purports to be the voice of \iValter Stinson, deceased brother
of the medium "Margery") has specifically claimed as being
his own, and which are quite different and distinct from im-
pressions similarly and at times coincidentally produced, but
which "Walter" has claimed were those of other persons.
Up to the present time there has been no evidence that there
are in existence any prints of this man's fingers made while
he was living. He died in 1911 before these phenomena ap-
peared. There is, to be sure, a razor which had been used by
him, upon the handle of which a fragment of a :finger print
was found by Mr. Fife and later described in the Journal of
the Society/ and quite recently the writer discovered with the
aid of ultra-violet light another partial print on the blade of
the same razor. Both of these prints, however, are too frag-
mentary to be of substantial value for the purpose of com-
parison with the wax impressions. Considerable effort has
been made, at one time or another, to find finger prints on other
articles known to have belonged to Walter Stinson, but without
success.
Therefore, for the identification of the "Walter" prints as
those of the medium's deceased brother we must, at any rate for
the present, rely in the first instance solely upon the statements
of the "Walter" voice, and this we do.
Now as to the "Walter" voice, upon the statements of which
we have based our acceptance of the identity of these prints.
Since we have no authentic prints, or in fact any prints at all
which are definitely known to have been made by the living
Walter Stinson, our only evidence is the declaration of the
"Walter" voice. This, therefore, raises the question of the
origin of this voice, which may be reduced to two possibilities.
1st. That the voice is a purely normal one emanating from
the medium, from a confederate, or from some physical mecha-
nism;
2nd. That it is st~pernormal-that is, that Walter Stinson,
per se, is talking, by means of or through the use of a hypo-
1 Psychic Research, Dec. 1928, p. '698, Fife report on razor blade.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 5·
thetical psychic mechanism obtained or developed from the-
entranced medium; or that the medium unconsciously and sub-
jectively is producing the voice by exercise of some power the
existence of which or its possession by man is unrecognized by
science.
Considering the :first possibility: This voice as heard in
the seance room is full, resonant and masculine though at times
somewhat husky, and approximates, if it does not quite equa],
in range, quality and volume, an ordinary human voice. It
emanates from the general neighborhood of the entranced
medium but its point of origin seems to move freely in an area
of several feet in all directions from tbe medium. It talks
intelligently, initiates discussions, answers questions that are
asked, and carries on argument and conversation in a way
which no mechanism yet devised could possibly do ·without our
knowledge, in this seance room and under the control we nseY
The use of a confederate is for the same reason impossible.
And it has been satisfactorily demonstrated 2
that the voice
functions quite. independently of tbe medium's vocal organs,.
or at least of their use in any ordinary manner.
As to the second possibility: There is no known scientific
way of proving that the voice which we hear and with which
we carry on conversation is that of the deceased ·walter Stinson,
either produced directly or by the aid of the medium "Mar-
gery"; nor can we prove that it is or is not a subjective power·
of the medium, unconsciously employed, although it has hap-
pened several times in our presence that the "\iValter" voice
has spoken before the medium entered the trance condition;
and she herself has even carried on conversation with the voice
when she was to all appearances still awake.
There are many able defenders of both of these theories.
But that the voice is supernormal there is abundant evidence.
We shall briefly mention only one proof of ·several which our-
1a It has been our practice, wherever and whenever possible to isolate the
phenomena by elimination of the human factor, first, by localizing the controlled
apparatus at the locus of the phenomena, and second, by localizing the phenomen!l!
in controlled space.
2 Proceedings A.S.P.R., Vol. I, p. .258, by Bird.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
-experiments have demonstrated (the record of which has not
yet been published), as follows: We took a sensitive micro-
phone similar to those used in radio broadcasting and placed
.it in a closed and sealed box (Fig. 1) which was mechanically,
acoustically, electrically and magnetically shielded from ex-
ternal physical influences, and connected the microphone elec-
trically with a loud speaker located in a distant part of the
building, all connections and equipment being likewise shielded.
The characteristic " ·walter" voice was reproduced by the loud
speaker and recognized by all who heard it, while no sound
was audible to those who sat in the room in which box, micro-
phone and medium were located. Under the controlled con-
ditions there was no possibility that the microphone and loud
speaker could have been made to function by any normal means
whatsoever. The result of this experiment in applying to the
problem of the "\iValter" voice a strict laboratory technique
-of isolation, which precluded the possibility of any physical con-
nection between the medium and the interior of the box in
any commonly accepted understanding of the words, we believe
affords sufficient proof that this phenomenon is supenwrmal.
To persons who have not been present at a "Margery"
seance and are not familiar through personal experience with
the work of the Lime Street group these statements may not
of themselves seem conclusive, but anyone who says that this
phenomenon of the "\iValter" voice is not supernormal betrays
thereby that he is not familiar with the facts.
It will probably for a long time to come be the lot of re-
searchers in the field of psychic phenomena, to have the evidence
.and conclusions they present meet a p?'iori denial and rejection
by the vast majority of people. But adventurers in new fields
can well abide the scorn of the doubters, for it is the essence of
adventure to explore new things and stand, even though alone,
for the facts discovered.
In the presence, however, of this sort of repeatable labora-
tory experiment conducted with scientific care and precision,
·a priori skepticism must at least pause, and hesitate to con-
-
demn or deny. To ignore and wave it aside with the loud noise
FIGURI~ 1.
Interior of voice box, showing condenser microphone. This box is about twenty
inches on a side and weighs over one hundred pounds. Outside the soundproofing
mat-.erial, which is built into it, there is a continuous sheathing of copper and another
of soft iron.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 7
of ig11orant and uninformed negation is again, as has so often
been done in the past, to substitute prejudice for the true spirit
()f science.
Whatever may be the explanation of this phenomenon, it is
obvious that this voice is 'directed by Intelligence. It is quite
.a common occurrence for it to joke, tell stories, compose poetry,
reminisce, give instructions, react almost instantly to a question
or statement, sometimes answering directly, but often denying
:any kno·wledge of the subject broached. ·when serious matters
:are under consideration, if the voice says a certain thing will
be accomplished it is rarely that this promise is not eventually
kept, although its consummation may take days or weeks or
months, for "Walter" claims, when presented with a new prob-
lem, that he must study or develop the necessary technique and
learn how to attain desired results just as anyone would have
i:o do.
To illustrate by concrete facts, the writer has 01inumerous
~occasions asked for specific :finger prints. One case in particu-
lar, tho record of which has been published, is that of the Sir
Oliver Lodge prints.3
vVe asked "Walter," without warning,
if he could produce them for us (Sir Oliver being in England
at the time), and he not only said that he could, but did so at
the times he said he would. There were some nineteen of these,
in all, and Mr. Bell of Scotland Yard 4
has shown that they
.agree with Sir Oliver's actual prints. In this case the man
whose prints were obtained is living.
On another occasion we obtained the prints of a man who
was not living-namely C. S. Hill 5
-and they check with his
.actual lifetime prints which were on :file. In this instance
·"Walter" told us beforehand whose prints he would make.
Several similar experiments have been commenced upon
which the work has not yet been completed.
vVhen we began to investigate the '' vValter" thumb prints
for this report the writer definitely asked "vValter" for im-
s Journal A.S.P.R., Mar. 1932, Lodge article by Thorogood.
4 Journal A.S.P.R., Mar. 1932, p. 118, Bell report on Lodge Prints.
s Journal A.S.P.R., Feb. 1932, Hill's Prints by Dr. Richardson.
---------
8 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
pressions of at least part of his right hand with the thumb
attached, in order to obtain its orientation, specifying further
that this print of the hand should include lines, ridges and
pores. "vValter" at once said that he would make the whole
hand, with all the fingers. This took time. We did not get it
immediately. First we obtained part of the palm with the
thumb, then parts with the fingers, and so on. But eventually
we had the entire hand. Then the writer asked for the left
hand in a similar manner. As each piece of wax was impressed~
"Walter" told us what it represented. And finally he told us
he would give us hands in relief-that he would, in other words,
produce normal positives. He even asked the writer, when we
were working on the left hand, to name the individual fingers~
one by one, as we wanted him to produce them. This was done
and the fingers thus made check with those of the other reliefs
of the left hand.
All this tends to show that when a serious investigation is
under way "Walter" does his best to perform his part of the
work, and that his statements with regard to what he will do
may be relied upon. We feel justified, therefore, in calling
these the "Walter" prints.
We shall later show that the patterns of the fingers thus
obtained in relief check with those of the plaster casts made
from the early paraffin gloves/ and also with most of the authen-
tic wax impressions which, according to such records as are
available, have been claimed by "Walter" to be his.
Now as to the authenticity of the material which bears the
impressions we have obtained during our investigation. V·le
used for the most part a proprietary dental wax called "Kerr'~
which readily softens under heat (usually being· immersed in
hot water), takes the impression of the fingers in good detail,
and quickly hardens without distortion.
The identification of these pieces of wax has always been
possible, for we have not depended upon shape and appearance
alone but upon other characteristics, such, for instance. as the
presence of various foreign substances which we had previ-
a Proceedings A.S.P.R., Vol. I, Chapter XLI, Paraffin Gloves.
I
j
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ously secretly added to or imbedded in them. In the case of
every one of these recent prints the wax was prepared before-
hand by the writer in his laboratory, and remained in his ex-·
elusive possession up to the time of his placing it in position
to receive the imprint, and from the time it was retrieved until
its examination.
Finally, we would again emphasize our belief in the super-
normal production of the "Walter" hands which we are about
to consider. The main reason for this investigation is the claim
that the thumb-print impressions issuing from the "Margery"·
seance room are supernormally produced, otherwise they
would have no interest for persons pursuing psychic research.
With regard to this, we state definitely and categorically
that we obtained the above mentioned hands in relief, and many
other impressions, in a manner which the facts prove to have·
been supernormal.
The conditions of control under which these hands-which
we are using as our standard "Walter" hands-were produced
will be given in connection with the detailed description of each
hand. For the present, it is sufficient to say that the medium
and her apparel were always searched by our own agent im-
·mediately before and after each seance, as was the seance room,
which was locked on the inside as soon as the group had entered
and kept locked until the seance was over; and that an officia1
stenographer took down all conversation. The stenographer
sat at a table, somewhat apart, in a substantial red light, so that
she could always see and be seen.
There was no possibility that a die was used in making any
of these impressions. The hands and feet of the medium
were always under the uninterrupted control of some member
of the writer's small group of investigators, which usually con-
sisted of Mr. Adams, Mr. Fife and himself. When "Sary,,.
another medium, was present-as occasionally happened-she·
also was under complete control.
If the reader will consider the size of some of these reliefs,
which required pieces of wax eight or ten inches square and
half an inch thick, he will realize how improbable it would be,.
10 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
.under the conditions imposed and in the space of forty seconds
(for some have been made in this brief space of time) for the
medium or any hypothetical confederate to manipulate a mold
or die so as to make an impression in the wax and remove the
die from it undetected, to say nothing of the difficulty of smug-
gling such a necessarily cumbersome article into or out of the
seance room without immediate detection. Moreover, since no
two impressions are exactly alike, their artificial production
would have necessitated the use of many dies, not one, even when
taking into consideration the known fact that no single die
would be likely to produce two impressions exactly alike.
:Mr. E. E. Dudley, writing in the January, 1930, number
·of the Journal (Vol. XXIV, pp. 31-34) presented an analysis
of the problem on the basis of normal production by the use
·of molds. Said he: ''The varying forms of these imprints
imply a flexible original. For, if the original (whether mold
or otherwise) were not flexible there must of necessity be such
a multiplicity of rigid molds as to make the assumption palpably
.absurd.' '6;a
Furthermore, on several occasions the writer obtained im-
pressions in wax when only the medium and he were present
in the locked and searched seance room. Some of the Sir Oliver
Lodge7
thumb prints, among others, were obtained under such
·conditions.
And as final and conclusive proof of the supernormality
.of these phenomena,7
a the writer has obtained thumb prints
aa See Appendix VII, p. 190, i1~[m.
1 Journal A.S.P.R., Mar. 1932, p. 97, Lodge Prints.
7a For a presentation of the view that it is impossible to prove scientifically
that phenomena are genuine and supernormal, see ''The Paradox of Psychic
Research", by Edwin G. Boring, Professor of Psychology at Harvard, in the
.LI.tlantio Monthly, Vol. 137, pp. 81-87 (January 1926). The argument as to
supernormality is that when the investigator has excluded every possible agency of
production that his ingenuity can conceive, and the phenomena still persist, he
has not proved supernormality but simply that he does not know how the phenomena
do occur. Furthermore, to establish the 1·eality of the superno1·mal would be to·
bring it within the normal. In respect to the "Walter" phenomena dis'cussed by
Mr. Thorogood, however, much is in fact known as to the mechanism of production,
·e.g., the reality of the teleplasmic structures as the means of impressing the waxes
is' established by overwhelming proof, although little is known as to the source and
-conditions of the occurrence of the teleplasm. There is, nevertheless, no l'Oom to-day
in the inn of orthodox science for teleplasm, and to call its occunence, t herefore,
a ''supernormal phenomenon'' seems justified. Finger impressions made by a
''
FIGURE 2.
Impression obtained F ebruary 23, 1932, under the most rigid conditions of control,
in a sealed, locked ·box.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 11
{Fig. 2) on a plastic in a closed locked box.8
(Fig. 3.)
With regard to the minutes of the special sittings had in
connection with this report, notes were taken in shorthand by
the official stenographer, and at practically no time in the last
two years of investigation have we depended upon the memory
of anyone present for an account of what was said or done
where such points would be of importance. This claim can
not be made for many of the earlier seances at which these
phenomena appeared. In general the early records were com-
piled by Mr. E. E. Dudley at his leisure and from his memory.
Dr. Crandon also kept notes of many of the earlier experi-
ments, which he usually made directly after each seance, but in
numerous cases neither his records nor those made by Mr.
Dudley can now be found. Therefore, with all respect for the
reports of the earlier seances, those which are available can
not always be relied upon since they were not stenographic.
records made coincidently with the phenomena.
Now let us explain the terms positive and negative as we
use them in connection with these impressions.
The pattern on the inner surface of an actual hand we term
a normal positive 1
"elief. If this surface of the hand is pressed
into softened wax it produces an impression which we term a
nMmal negative. In the wax the ridges on the skin of the hand
produce t~wrows. But if an ink print is made from a hand or
finger by any of the numerous methods in use, the ink marks
are made by the ridges of the skin and such a print is designated
a normal positive.
Now if we compare the pattern on the hmer surface of the
actual hand face up with that of its ink impression it may be
seen that the lines of one run in a reversed or opposite direc-
teleplasmic structure are likewise properly described as '' supernormally produced.''
The term ''supernormal'' as used in psychic research is thus a relative expression
which for t he practical purposes· of description and exposition is useful and of
fairly well settled connotation. Of course, when the professors get around to accept-
ing the reality of the facts described by psychic researches to-day as ''supernormal''
they will catalogue them as part of the normal universe, which in truth they ·are.
Criticism of terminology is always valuable but it can never be a satis·factory substi-
tute for patient examination of the facts, and when serving as an excuse for
failure to give the subject adequate attention it is a confession of inertia.-Editor.
B Journal A.S.P.R., July 1932, p. 268, Locked Box. ·
12 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
tion from the lines of the other, or one may be said to present
a mirrored view of the other. It is also true that the lines
of a normal negative, such as an impression in wax, run in an
opposite direction from those of the normal positive relief, but
they do not present a mirrored view of it for the reason that
the negative is an intaglio impression.
Whether an impression in wax is a positive or a negative
may in some cases be easily determined, but in others it may
be very difficult or practically impossible to decide this point.
If in this investigation we were dealing with prints made in a
normal manner only, or even artificially produced, the presence
of certain characteristics would help us to determine these
points; but in the case of prints made supernormally we can
not, even where these characteristics exist, expect always to
find that they agree in all their indications.
These characteristics are :
1st. Location of the pores. If we succeed in finding in a
print indication of pore structure we know that the particular
locality carrying the pores is a friction ridge, since as a matter
of anatomy pores are to be found only on these ridges.9
2nd. Form of the pores. If, on the wax we are examining,
the pores should appear as small depressions in the ridges the
impression is a positive; but if, on the other hand, the pores
should show as small nodules in a depression the wax must
be a negative. Unfortunately, on many of the seance waxes
which we have there is no indication of pores, so that absolute
classification as positive or negative by this means is impossible.
3rd. Width of ridges. Another point to be considered is the
width of the friction ridges in comparison with the width of
the furrows. This, in our opinion, can not always be taken as
conclusive evidence in the analysis of these waxes, for we have
found that on some of them no difference in width is apparent.
4th. Joint lines. If a joint line, or skin crease, is depressed
it is evidence that the impression at this point is positive;
while if it is raised it will indicate that the impression is nega-
u Gray's Anatomy, 21st Edition, p. 1070.
Luigi Luciane, Human Physiology, Macmillan, 1913.
Wentworth and Wilder, Pe1·sonal Identification, 1932 Edition.
FIG1!RE 3.
Box lockecl, and open. The impression of F ebruary 23, 1932, was obtainecl in
this box while it was locked and sealed. This box could not have been opened without
detection.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 13
tive. But here again, while in the majority of cases these super-
normal prints seem to run true to form, there are instances
in which part of an impression is negative and part of it is
positive.
5th. Scars and other marks. Old scars and other marks of
this nature are, in general, depressions in a positive, and ridges
or raised areas in a negative. But very often there appear in
the waxes imperfections which are not at all of a supernormal
nature but may in reality be due to the fact that the plastic
when heated is very soft and necessarily alters its form at the
merest contact with anything whatsoever.
Of course, none of the above points would be of any use
in helping us determine whether an impression is or is not a so-
called mirror print. That could be determined only when we
have a standard impression or print to compare it with, such as
we shall show in our standard "Walter" hands.
Now, whether we attempt to analyze impressions in wax
by studying them directly or by studying photographs of them,
we shall be very likely to encounter difficulty for the reason
that it is very hard, even with the most careful lighting, to
eliminate illusion ;9
a and in the case of a photograph there is
always possibility that the print may have been made from the
wrong side of the photographic negative, thus reversing the
orientation of the design.
Because of these many questionable factors, therefore, we
are basing our conclusions on those waxes only which are clear
and distinct and in which the greatest number of the above
characteristics can be determined. We shall mention other
waxes, and in fact make use of them, but they are not such as
may be used to decide an issue. To eliminate illusion when
using the microscope, we have made practically all our observa-
tions with binocular stereoscopic-vision instruments.9
b
In order that the reader may more clearly understand what
we mean when we use positive, negative, and other terms in
connection with these prints, let us illustrate by means of an
actual finger and wax impressions made from it.
9aLuckiesh, Vis~tal Ill~tsions, Van Nostrand, 1922.
9b See Appendix VIII: Letter from Bausch-Lomb Optical Co.
14 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
In Figure 4, A is a photograph of a living :finger. In it
the friction ridges and the pore structure show quite clearly.
The actual :finger we designate a normal positive relief.
If we take this :finger (A) and press it into soft wax, we
shall produce an impression which is a normal negative (in-
taglio) as shown in B. The furrows or depressions appearing
in this illustration were made by the ridges of the actual finger
while the ridges were made by the furrows of the real finger.
If now we use B as a die, and press it into soft wax we
shall obtain an impression which is shown at C. This is a
model in relief of the original :finger, and may also be designated
a normal positive relief. Here, what appear as ridges corre-
spond with the ridges, and the furrow with the furrows, of
the original :finger.
Two other terms which we wish to illustrate and which in
the early papers on this subject by Bird, Dudley and others
have been emphasized, but which we shall use very little, are
mirror-positive and mirror-negative. Still using the illustra-
tions in Figure 4 :
If we look at A in a mirror the reflection will appear as
at A'.
B' shows a mirror-negative, and while it is of exactly the·
same structure as B, it will be noticed that the pattern is
reversed.
C' shows a mirror image of C. In this, the detail is the same
as in C but is a reversal of it. In orientation and design it is
similar to an ink print.
D shows a photograph of an actual ink print of :finger A,
made by lightly coating the :finger with printer's ink and press-
ing it upon a piece of paper. The only difference between D,
and A or C, is that the ridges in D run in the reverse direction
from those of the others. An ink print, if carefully made, shows
not only the ridge design but the pores which are in the ridges.
The supernormally produced impressions, whether positive or
negative, raTely show the pores.
E is an enlaTgement of the tip of the core of D, showing
the pores.
A
B
c
D E
FIGURE 4.
A. Photograph of an aetual finger. Al. Mirror image of A. B. Negative im-
pression of A. Bl. Mirror image of B. C. Artifieial repliea in relief made from B.
01. Mirror image of 0. D. Aetual ink-print made by A. E. Enlarged view of the-
eore of D showing pores.
III
THE "wALTER" HANDS
Having presented with considerable detail the methods which
we have used in obtaining the impressions we are about to
illustrate, and having defined our interpretation of many of the
terms commonly used in connection with this subject, we now
present photographs of the palmar surfaces of complete "Wal-
ter" hands in relief, a left hand which was obtained on May
10, 1932, in Figure 5; and a right hand, obtained on May 23,
19.32, in Figure 6. The originals of these hands were obtained
under conditions of absolute control, and at the time they
were made they were said by "vValter" to be reliefs of his
hands as they appeared in life, so that in all respects we are
satisfied as to their identity, authenticity, and supernormality.
For the purpose of this report we designate them the standard
"Walter" hands. The conditions under which they were
<
obtained will be given in detail later.
The statement that the hands are in 1'elief has a very im-
portant bearing upon this whole subject. Macroscopic observa-
tion clearly shows that they have every appearance of being
models of the inner surfaces of actual hands. The main lines,
the joint lines, the creases, and the papillary ridges all appear
as they would on a living hand.
If we examine the ridges microscopically, the sweat pores
may be seen as minute depressions on the tops and sides of
many of them. This shows conclusively that the model is that
.of ahand in relief, or that it is what we term a normal positive
relief, just as a living hand is a normal positive relief. The
size of the sweat pores and the number per centimeter length
of ridge or per square centimeter of area seem to agree with
those of a normal palm.10
10 Gray's Anatomy, 21st Edition, p. 10,78.
Clark and Lhamon, Anatomical Reco1·d, 1917, Vol. 12.
Wentworth and Wilder, PeTsonal Identification, 1932 Edition, p. 295.
15
16 JVI.ARGERY l\IIEDIUJVISHIP
In many of the reliefs which we have obtained there are-
numerous defects, such for instance, as the absence of skin
markings in certain areas, or of whole fingers. Some of these
defects may have been due to poor preparation of the wax
before use, or to the manipulation of it when hot and in the
process of being impressed, and since these are established by
the evidence to be supernormal phenomena, there is also the
possibility that the forming agent may not have been complete..
But among so many exhibits there should be no difficulty in
clearly distinguishing the points to which we shall call attention,
although for close study nothing can replace the actual waxes
themselves, since no matter what care may have been taken in
making the photographs, the lights and shadows in the picture
may cause illusion which it is no simple matter to analyze.
We have already referred to this difficulty.
Looking at the photographs of these two standard hands
(Figs. 5 and 6), we notice that all the fingers are shown, there-
fore clearly orienting their dermatoglyphics, and for the first
time in the history of this case definitely indicating which finger
patterns belong to the right hand and which to the left, a thing
it would be impossible to determine were only the detached
finger tips available for examination. In other words, we no
longer need to rely upon the statements of "Walter" or of
anyone to know to which hand, if either, right or left, a detached
finger belongs. All that is necessary is to compare the pattern
of the finger in question with the patterns of the fingers on
these hands to determine whether it is identical with any of
them.
Observing the fingers still more critically, we find that on
the original waxes the ridges are clearly raised and the jgint
lines depressed, while the pore structure appears substantially
as it would on a normal hand.
Examining now the finger tips, let us take the index, middle,.
ring and little fingers of both hands. Here the microscope
shows structure in relief similar to that already detailed, al-
though the design on each finger tip is different from that of
the others. These tips in some cases have the appearance of
FIGUR.E 5.
The standard "Walter " left hand in relief, obtah1ecl under strict conditions of
'Control on May 10, 1932. This shows clearly for the fLrst time the orientation of
finger and thumb patterns.
FIGURE 6.
View of standard "Waltm· " l'ight hand in relief, obtained under strict conditions of control
on May 23, 1'932. This shows for the first time the orientation of the finger and thumb
patterns; also a characteristic scar (s) of "Margery's" right hand.
MARGERY MEDIUMSI-IIP 17
being pinched, and are slightly smaller in proportion than the
fingers to which they belong, while in others they are well
formed; and where there are joint lines they are depressed as
they should be in a normal positive.
T.hese statements are not based on the study of one set of
waxes alone, for we have eight either complete or partial right
hands, and seven complete or partial left hands, all in relief, as
well as several detached finger tips and thumbs which show joint
lin~s and ridge patterns that check with those of the homologous
:fingers of the complete hands. Almost all of these were made
at the request of the writer, and at the times when, without
previous intimation, he asked for them; and they were all pro-
duced under severe conditions of control.
When we first attempted to get complete hands, it seemed
on ''Walter's'' part to be a process of learning how to make
them, as we have already mentioned. The results of the first
efforts were very poor, but as the experiments proceeded the
results rapidly improved until the startling models illustrated
in Figures 5 and 6 were obtained. In the beginning we used
large slabs of a low temperature wax which would soften under
body temperature, but which required considerable pressure in
order to record skin markings. About all that was obtained on
these were partial right thumb impressions (Fig. 7), which in
two or three instances, however, clearly show the core.
On AprilS, 1932, using large pieces of Kerr, we obtained two
impressions. The :first one (Fig. 8) shows a very rough and
crude outline of the palm with only a slight indication of the
thumb, the skin markings of the upper part of the palm, and
beginnings of the :fingers. The second wax (Fig. '9) shows less
of the palm outline and less of the thumb, but beginnings of the
four fingers and some skin markings.
While there are few papillary ridges on these two waxes,
€nough of the "Walter" characteristics are present to warrant
the statement that they check with the "Walter" right hand
.already illustrated in Figure 6.
On April 12, 1932, we obtained three impressions in Kerr.
In the first one (Fig. 10) the wax was very much lumped and
18 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
distorted, but there are, nevertheless, indications of three
fingers, and palm markings. The second wax (Fig. 11) shows
much more of the palm design and also more of the fingers, the
last three fmgers each showing two joints. There are also
apparent a few of the ridges of the thumb, and a small part of
the core. The third wax (Fig. 12) was much like the second,
with enough of the palm characteristics present to indicate that
jt was an attempt at making a relief of the right hand. In the
case of the last two waxes, the markings on the bulb of .the
thumb are too indistinct to be of much help.
On April 13, 1932, we obtained our first more or less com-
plete right hand (Fig. 13), showing most of the palmar surface
and the three joints of each finger, although it does not show
the thumb particularly well. This hand is peculiar, however,
in the fact that the tips of the index, middle and ring fingers are
negative, as are also the tip and part of the second joint of the
little finger, but the rest of the lines, joints, palm, and the
bulb of the thumb are in relief, and clearly agree with our
standard hands. These finger tips, which are negative impres-
sions, appear as if they had been an afterthought and were
added after the hand was made. Nevertheless, they agree with
the standard "Walter" hands.
On this evening also we obtained a right thumb impression
(Fig. 14) which "Walter" stated was a mirror print. Now, to
us a ''mirror print'' is one which looks like the mirror image
of a normal print, and the general direction of the lines on this
one would indicate that it may be such a print; but upon close
examination it looks more like a normal negative, which is what
we think "Walter" really means when he says "mirror print,"
as we shall later show. Due to the fact that this wax had been
over-heated it is full of tiny holes caused by bubbles, which
destroy some of the details.
The third piece of wax (Fig. 15) (which was the first one
to have been impressed on this evening) bears two impressions.
These are poorly made, although the lines that show are fairly
sharp. "vValter" said they were negative impressions of his
right thumb and right index finger, and the markings that can
be seen check with those members on the complete hand.
FIGURE 7.
One of the first attempts by "Wa.lte1·" at making the impression of his hand, in soft pink
dental wax. This shows several partial impressions of the "Walter" right thumb.
FIGURE 8.
One of "Walter's" first attempts at making his right band impression in Kerr. This shows
slight ·beginnings of the fingers with their l'idge designs.
F IGURE 9.
Another attempt at a ''Walter'' right hanc
l, showing roots of :fingers anc
l, in the lower left
hand corner, what appear to be skin markings of the wrist.
l:I
J
FIGURE 10.
A much distorted piece of wax showing somewhat more of the fingers and some of
the papillary ridge design of the paJm.
FIGURE 11.
This shows slightly more of the palm, some of the finge1·s and the tip of the core
of the 1·ight thumb.
FIGURE 12.
Some of the papillary riclge design at the roots of the :fingers, especially the deltas at the base
of the index and middle :fingers.
FIGURE 13.
The first more or less complete right hand, although with many imperfections..
The peculia1·ity in this is that while the hand as a whole is in relief the tips of the-
four fingers m·e normal negatives.
FIGURE 14.
Supposedly a mirror·print of the "Walter" right thumb, obtained on May 13, 1932, but
in reality it is more like a normal negative. Small craters scattered over the surface are
due to overheating of the wax by a gas flame which was used instead of hot water to soften it.
FIGURE 15.
A rather poor negative impressjon of the "Walter" right thumb and index finger.
'l'he wax is quite deformed and is very thin in places.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 19
On April 20, 1932, we retrieved a very irregular chunk of
wax (Fig. 16) which, however, shows part of the palmar surface
very distinctly, and the beginning of one finger. Here again,
such of the design as there is agrees with that of the standard
"Walter" left hand. This was the :first attempt at making a
left hand.
On April 22, 1932, we obtained three wax impressions in
relief (Fig. 17), the left index, left middle and left little finger,
one at a time, in this order, as speci:fieQ. without previous notice
by the writer. They are clear, with well marked ridges and
joint lines, and agree with the homologous fingers of the
"Walter" standard left hand.
On April 28, 1932, we obtained a very fair left hand in relief
(Fig. 18), showing the :first joints of some of the fingers, part of
the index finger, and the complete middle :finger and thumb.
The palm markings are quite clear, as are most of the lines that
show on the fingers, and all agree with those of the standard
"Walter" hand. The bulb of the thumb is attached to the joint
in a peculiar manner, and is not quite normal in appearance.
This thumb, however, shows all the characteristics of the
"Walter" left thumb, including a scar which we shall discuss
later. It took eight minutes·to make this particular hand.
On May 2, 1932, we obtained another left hand (Fig. 19),
with the last two joints of all four fingers missing. The ridge
designs of the palm and of the stumps of the fingers and thumb
are quite clear and check in all respects with our "Walter"
left hand.
On the back of this wax are several partial impressions of
the "Walter" right thumb (Fig. 20), which likewise agree with
the standard; and there are also traces of what appears to be
the "Walter" right palm, but they are indistinct.
On May 3, 1932, a quite complete left hand (Figs. 21 and
21a) was obtained by Mr. Button-the writer not being pres-
ent-which has the characteristics of the "Walter" left hand.
The tips of the ring and little fingers, while formed, show no
ridge design.
On the following evening, May 4th, Mr. Button obtained an-
20 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
other left hand (Fig. 22), the fingers of which are bent back
on themselves in a way in which no normal hand could be
bent unless the bones were broken. If this wax had been bent
back after the print was made the fingers would show some
signs of distortion which they fail to do. Both of these waxes
bear the typical "vValter" left thumb, the scar showing clearly,
and have been described and illustrated in the Journal.11
On May 9th "vYalter" said he was going to try to make both
his hands back to back, and we obtained as a result a somewhat
distorted piece of wax (Fig. 23) showing clearly on one side the
left palm and the complete thumb and :first joints of the fi11gers,
with much detail of ridge markings, all fully agreeing with
our standard "\Valter" left hand.
The other side of the wax (Fig. 24), upon which the right
hand in relief was supposed to show, was greatly warped and
bent out of shape: Nevertheless, there are enough of the palm
and :finger markings to show that it is of the right hand. The
thumb, which is in relief, agrees with our standard "Walter"
thumb, and there appears to be no indication of a scar, although
there is an imperfection in the ·wax which might be mistaken for
a scar; but this thumb is peculiarly located beside the Jittle
finger as if accidentally shifted ove.r into this position when the
left hand was made.
On the 13th of May another right hand was made (Fig. 25)
on which the ridge design of the thumb is not very good, the
little :finger is practically missing, and the ring :finger only
partially made and showing no markings worth while. Only the
first two joints of the middle finger show, the tip being bent over
the back as though the wax had been too soft to keep its shape.
The index :finger is quite complete, and checks, as does the palm,
with our standard right hand.
Now let us turn our attention more specifically to the two
hands in relief, which we are using as our standard "Walter"
right and left hands.
On the lOth of May we obtained the left hand which is
illustrated in Fig. 5.
n Journal A.S.P .R., Sept. 1932, p. 335.
FIGURI~ 16.
One of the first attempts at making a left band (May 20, 1932) . While
this wax carried many imperfections not supemormal, such part of the palm
as cloes show cleal'ly bem·s excellent papillary ridge design.
~
.. ~~--~ ~~ --~~;;~
FIGURE 17.
This shows tips of the index, middle and little fingers of the "Walter" left hand, all in relief, and made in this order a~
· requested by the writer without warnin~.
FIGURE 18.
A partial left hand, quite well shaped, but lacking much of the ridge design
and the tips of the fingers.
FIGURE 19.
A quite well formed palm of the "Walter" left hand, showing the general ridge design and
the scar on the left thumb.
FIGURE 20.
The back of the wax illustrated in Figure 19, which was made on May 2, 1932; it bears several.
partial imp1·essions of' the ''Walter '' right thumb.
FIGURE 21.
"Walter" left hand in relief, produced on May 3, 1932, in two minutes. The fingers are bent
back at about 90 o .
..,
FIGURE 22.
Two views of a "Walter" left hand in relief bent back on itself. This was obtained on May 4, 1932, in forty seconds. This
:vax ha~ the appearance of having been impressed while the Wal> Waf) J:>ent iP.. this position, not of having been deformed after the
rmpress10n was made.
FIGURE 23.
This shows a "Walter" left band, somewhat bent, with the ends of the :fingers
missing. It was an attempt at making a right and left, back to back. The reverse
side shown in Figure 24.
FIGURE 24.
Part of a "Walter" right palm in relief, which was impressed into the same
piece of wa.-'{ shown in Figure 23. This is much less complete, and the thumb, while
in relief, is located near the beginning of the little finger.
FIGURE 25.
A rather poor "Walter" right hand, but with the index finger well formed and the
ridge design cleal"ly showing an ulnar loop.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 21
The wax upon which this hand was made was prepared by
the writer at his laboratory by taking eighteen or twenty pieces
of Kerr as they came from the manufacturer and fusing them
into a single slab. The resulting block of wax was approxi-
mately eight inches square and nearly half an inch thick. It
was quite regular in shape, relatively smooth on both sides,
and contained few hollows, depressions, air bubbles, or other
imperfections.
'While this wax was in a very plastic condition, at the time of
preparing it, a fine copper wire covered with two layers of silk
wound in opposite directions was carefully imbedded along one
side of it as a means of identification. This wire was a No. 36
Brown & Sharpe gauge, making it 0.005 of an inch in diameter.
Only Mr. Adams and the writer knew of this wire being so
placed. After this was thoroughly imbedded so that no ends
showed, a few crystals of copper sulphate, which are of a
bluish green color, were also concealed in the wax. These
were added for the purpose of better identification, and not even
the writer's colleagues knew that the copper sulphate crystals
had been added until after the wax had been used in the seance
room.
This wax, sealed in a large and heavy envelope, was taken
to the seance at Lime Street by the writer, and was continu-
ously in his possession until, during the seance and while the
medium was in trance he removed it from the envelope and
placed it on top of a cloth which was in a square cake tin which
had also been purchased by him and brought to the seance room
this same evening. This tin, which had a perfectly smooth
bottom, bearing only the manufacturer's trade mark, was placed
on the table in front of the medium.
At 9:15 scalding hot water was poured over the wax, com-
pletely covering it. We say the water was ''scalding hot.'' It
was in a tea kettle on an electric plate beside the writer's chair
and was boiling when poured into the pan. At 9:22 the writer
took the same· piece of wax out of the cold water, which was in
a duplicate cake tin which had also been brought by him. He
immediately took the wax to the full red light at the stenogra-
22 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
pher 's table and scratched on its back the date and length of
time it had been out of his possession (seven minutes), examined
it to see if the,wire or any of the crystals were to be seen, and
placed it in the envelope to take back to the laboratory, keeping
it in his possession all the while. At the laboratory it was ex-
amined more carefully for the identifying wire and chemicals,.
which were found. There was absolutely no doubt as to its
being the identical piece of Kerr which the writer had taken to
Lime Street, only now its surface bore a relief of a left hand.
Mr. Adams also checked its identity by means of the
imbedded wire.
vVe may say here, as will be seen in the transcript of the
minutes of that evening/2
that no sooner had the wax been put
in the hot water than "vValter" asked what those little pieces
of wire were, saying that they stuck in his :fingers.
On this evening only Mr. Adams, Mr. Fife, the two mediums
-" Sary" and "Margery"-Miss Barry (the stenographer)
and the writer were in tl1e room.
Before the mediums or the stenographer came into the room,
Adams, Fife, and the writer went in and locked the door, and
with plenty of white light searched it thoroughly,-cabinet,
equipment, walls, floor and ceiling; arranged the electric stove
and placed the tea kettle on it to heat the water; put the two cake
pans on the table-which was to be in front of the medium-
putting cold water in one of them and a cloth in the other. This
cloth is used to prevent the hot wax from sticking to the tin
and to facilitate its removal from the water. We may note here
that these very large pieces of wax take considerable time to·
heat through, and are likely to be softer at the edges than in
the centre.
The stenographer in the meantime carefully searched both
mediums and their shoes, stockings, and seance garments, with
negative results and neither of them left her side until we
allowed them to enter the seance room. We also observed them
car efully as they entered, and as soon as they were in the room
12 Appendix IX: Minutes of meeting of 5-10-32.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 23
the writer closed and locked the door, placing the key in his
pocket. vVe might add that the lock may be operated only from
the inside, as the keyhole is not cut way through the door, and
there is no other means of entrance to or exit from the room
except the :fireplace, which is small in section, and two windows
on the Lime Street side, which are about thirty feet above the
street and do not open onto any balcony or :fire escape.
Adams immediately took control of '' Sary,'' and the writer
of "Margery," the stenographer going at once to her table·
where a good red light was burning so that she could be seen
the entire time. Mr. Fife was also in the room to observe all
that took place.
"Margery" was placed in her chair back of the table upon
which the two tins were arranged. The legs of this chair are
let dow~ into a good sized board to the under surface of which
are attached rubber cushions, so that it is very difficult, either
with the hands or feet, to change the position of the chair once
one is seated in it.
The centre of the chair is approximately thirty inches from
the centre of the table in front of it.
The table is a plain light pine affair, with no drawers or
opening where anything might be concealed.
We were at :first seated in this order,-" Margery," on her
right Fife, on his right ''Sary,'' on her right Adams, on his
right Thorogood, on his right "Margery."
This was at 9 :10 P.M.
Within a very few minutes "Margery" being in trance,
"Walter" asked us to change our seating, which we did, making
a :final arrangement of ''Margery,'' Adams, '' Sary,'' Fife and
"Margery" with Thorogood seated within the circle directly
in front of the table.
Adams controlled "Margery's" right hand and her right
knee with his left hand; Fife in a similar way controlled her left
hand and knee; Adams controlied "Sary's" left hand and Fife
controlled her right, she being seated somewhat behind the
writer, vvho was free to use both hands to manipulate the hot
water and wax.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The seance was over at 9 :30, requiring only twenty minutes
for the entire proceeding, during which a red light near the
seance table was on nearly all the time, in addition to the
stenographer's red light. A red-flash pocket lamp also was used
frequently by the writer.
As soon as the seance was over the writer unlocked the door,
.and the stenographer accompanied both mediums into another
room where she thoroughly searched them and their garments
with negative results. During this time Adams, Fife, and the
writer again searched the seance room and all its equipment,
with like negative results.
The examination of the wax bearing the impression showed
very conclusively that it was the same piece which had been
taken into the seance room.
The time taken to heat and soften the wax, to fashion upon
it this hand in relief and place it in the cold water was but seven
minutes, and the time consumed in actually making the impres-
·sion must have been less than a third of that period.
There was no possible chance for either medium to take any-
thing into the room or out of it, and at no time was "Sary"
dose enough to the table to reach it. The stenographer was in
her chair fully six feet away during the entire time. The wax
was out of the writer's possession only while it was in the
water, and during this interval he had one hand under the table
on "Margery's" knees and kept the other on top of the table.
We cannot too strongly stress the fact that this hand in
relief has every appearance of having been made all at once by
.a single co-ordinated process. The impression is complete, with
the palm, :fingers, :finger tips, and thumb, and there is no indica-
tion of any part of it having been added separately. This, in
itself, might indicate supernormality, for few of us could orient
·OW" thumb in the same plane with our hand. Thus, the im-
pressing mechanism must be flexibleY It is, of course, possible
to so mold the wax about the hand as to get the thumb impression
at the same time with the rest of the hand, but in such a case
18 Journal A.S.P.R., Jan. 1930, p. 33.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 25
the plane of the thumb would appear at an angle of forty-five
degrees or more with the palm, as in Figure 26. Moreover, the
resulting impression would be a negative, whereas our standard
"Walter" hand is a positive. A positive could not be made
normally by any direct method.
The :finger and palm prints of all those present at thi::;
sitting have been taken, and show no similarity to the "Walter"
hand.
On May 23, 1932,14
we obtained a complete right hand, which
we have already illustrated and presented in Figure 6 as our
standard right hand.
The preparation of the wax for this seance was the same as
for that of May lOth, except that for identification purposes
crystals of sodium bichromate were used in addition to
crystals of copper sulphate, the former being of a reddish
color. The same procedure was used throughout, the only dif-
ference being that the wax was actually out of the writer's
possession for a shorter length of time, although the seance
itself lasted longer.
We started at 9:10P.M. The "Walter" voice was heard at
9 :2'0. The writer put the wax into the hot water, which was
already in the dish, at 9 :28 and at 9 :29 withdrew the wax from
the cold water dish and examined it in red light, marking as
before the date and length of time it took to impress it, one
mimtte. It was found to be a right hand in relief, as "Walter"
had said, and he called our attention to a scar in the palm, say-
ing that it was really "Mar-gery's" scar, although the hand
was his. This particular phenomenon will be dealt with later.
The personnel of the group at this seance was the same as
that of May lOth,-Fife, "Sary," Adams, "Margery," the
stenographer who sat apart at a table, and the writer.
The mediums and their apparel were searched both before
and after the seance, as were room and equipment, all with nega-
tive results, and during the seance the door was locked and the
key kept by the writer.
14 Appendix X: Minutes of meeting of 5-23-32_
26 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
After the seance the wax was identified as the same piece ·
the writer had brought with him, but now it bore an impression
in relief of a right hand.
Thus. we have shown that for a period of over two months
"Walter" was engaged, at the specific request of the writer,
in the task of producing impressions of his hands, and the
results indicate the efforts of a technician mastering his ma-
terial to attain a definite result by the familiar process of trial
and error. We shall not at this time discuss the technique
involved or offer any explanation thereof, but the atmosphere ·
of working on a difficult technical problem with an unseen col-
laborator was an outstanding feature of an otherwise quite
normal piece of laboratory research. The elation and satisfac-
tion displayed by "Walter" upon the completion of his task
had all the genuineness and spontaneity one might expect from
a colleague who had found the answer to a mundane engineering
or laboratory problem.
FIGURE 26.
Dr.- ' 'X 's'' right palm intaglio, showing the imp1
·ession of the thumb completely attached t o
the palm. This was made in one operation.
IV
TrrE '' -vvALTER'' FrNGERs
Now let us consider more specifically the thumbs of these
standard hands. Both of them show very definite, although
different, characteristics as to core and other markings. The
design of the right thumb pattern shows that it is of the ulnar
loop type and that the core consists of a staple or hairpin,
although the thumb on our standard hand is not as well devel-
oped as others we have obtained and does not show the complete
design of the joint. The part of the joint line which shows is de-
pressed. On this thumb there appears to be no scar near the
core.
The core of the left thumb is likewise of the ulnar loop type,
but consists of a spike which is somewhat curved at its upper
end and bifurcated at its lower end. One very noticeable char-
acteristic of every authentic left thumb which we have in relief,
and there are ten of them, is the definite scar which cuts clean
across the thumb at an angle of about thirty degrees with the
joint line, pointing upward toward the index finger, as shown in
the photograph, and which cuts the above-mentioned bifurcation
of the spike about five mm. from the tip. This scar is depressed
in all those thumbs that are in relief. The edges of the ridges,
where they were cut, are somewhat puckered and also somewhat
sheared 15
in relation to each other, which is not an unusual
condition in scars. This scar was said by "\iValter" to have
resulted from a cut received while whittling, when he was a boy.
There is, of course, no way to check this statement.
A better view of the standard "Walter" right and left
thumbs in relief is given in Figure 27. All the characteristics
15 Sir Francis Galton, Finger Prin·ts, 1892 Edition, p. 59.
27
28 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
we have just enumerated may be clearly seen m this
illustration.
A number of other right and left thumbs, obtained recently,
are shown in Figures 28 and 29, and while some of them are
incomplete, the details of structure are generally clear.
FIGURE 27.
The standard "Walter" left and right thumb impressions in relief, both t.o the same scale. Note that the left is some-
what smaller and finer in detail and as to pore structure and clearly shows the scar across the bulb. The right shows the
ridges worn and somewhat flattened, the core as a staple, and the joint line with its bifurcation.
FIGURE 28.
A group of normal positive reliefs of the "\1\Talter " right thumb. These a 1
·e only partial,
and the reproduction is not very clear, but all show a staple at the core. Several of these have
a concrescence somewhat above the tip of the core, the middle wax showing this especially well..
'"
.... .
'\:~;'?~
''<·1
·,
FIGURE 29.
Four "Walter" left t humb normal r eliefs, all well executed and shcll"ing tl1e typical scar. Below the joint line on these ther e
is a sharp, vertical imperfection. This is found in other wax imp:·essions, both of ''·walter'' and others, and we haYe not
yet been able to account for it. A sceptic would undoubtedly claim it is due to a joint in the die.
'-..
v
''WALTER'' FINGER TIPs
In Figure 30 we show a classification sheet giving the ridge
design of each :finger tip. These views are similar to those which
would be obtained if it were possible to make ink prints directly
from these hands. What was actually done, however, in this
case, was to use the photographs of the :finger tips in relief and
reverse them so that the orientation would agree with that of
actual ink prints.
It will be noticed that under most of these prints there is a
short diagonal line placed there by the expert who made the
classification. r,rhis indicates the direction of the slant of the
loop, where a loop exists. The :figures beside each print indicate
the ridge count.
The :fingers of the right hand are all of the ulnar loop type,
the little finger having what is sometimes called an eyelet ulnar
loop.
The index finger of the left hand is of the radial loop type,
the ring or fourth finger has an ulnar central pocket loop, and
the remaining fingers have plain ulnar loops.
29
VI
TYPES OF FINGER pATTERNS
For those who are not familiar with this subject, let us say
that for our purpose we are dividing :finger print types into
three classes/0
as shown in the ink-prints in Figure 31, A being
known as a whorl, B a loop, and C an arch. It so happens that
all the "vValter" fingers fall under classification B. When the
lines of this type of design open in the direction of the little
finger, the pattern is klwwn as an ulnar loop; and when they
open toward the thumb side of the hand, it is known as a radial
loop. The word loop, ho·wever, does not necessarily mean that
the core of the pattern is an actual loop (or staple, as it should
be termed) for the core may consist of a rod or of several rods;
it simply indicates the general appearance of the pattern.
In addition to the core, there is another important feature
in connection with the different classes of impressions, which is
known as the delta. This is the point where three ridges come
together to form a Y, as shown in this same :figme. There are
two of these deltas in a whorl, one in a loop, and none at all in
an arch.
The ulnar loop, which is so frequently found in the "vValter''
:fingers, happens to be the most common type of loop, occurring
in over 66 per cent of all hands. Professor Kristine Bonnevie
has shown the frequency of the ulnar and radial loops/7
not
only for the :fingers combined but also individually.
It is important to note that since the ulnar loop is of such
frequent occurrence we are bound to have many :fingers carrying
this type and, therefore, that there must be many :fingers having
similar ridge patterns with only slight differences of minutiae.
Using Professor Bonnevie 's values, in the City of Boston,
16 Sir Francis Galton, Finge?· P?·ints, 1892 Edition, p. 78.
Wentworth and Wilder, Pm·sonal Identifica-tion, 1932 Edition, p. 184.
11 Appendi..;: XI: Prof. Bonnevie 's frequency table of loops.
30
tlt./H
..ame vr
Dept.
, I \
Clu$,9ificotion No. / lj 1/ ~ .... ....r. '11
R
e?· __ '/_ ...7t?P .-:?;.. -· 7. .
FIGURE 30.
Classificatio11 by Mr. Bert Wentworth of the "Walter" digits, arranged in a similar manner
to ink-prints.
Delta Delta
A c
FIGURE 31.
Classification of finger-print design used ·by us. The usual classification includes four
or more types, but for our pmpose three types only are necessary.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 31
where there are over 780,000 18 people, 55 per cent of these, or
429,000, would have the ulnar loop type of pattern on the right
thumb. How many of these would have a: staple at the core,
and how many a rod or rods is unknown, as there are no sta-
tistics covering these finer divisions; but it is probably reason-
able to assume that there are about as many of one as the other,
although we have some data which tend to show that staples
predominate. In any case, it is easy to see that among all
these thousands of staples the variations or differences between
many of them must of necessity be very slight. Nevertheless it
seems to be a well-established practice among bureaus of identi-
fication if two or more prints contain eight to twelve clearly
defined characteristics in common and show no single difference
to consider that the prints are of the same digit and therefore of
the same individual; and it is a well-recognized fact that no two
jndividuals, even if they be identical twins, have any two fingers
which are exactly alike.
But Professor H. H. Newman 19 says:
"There are, however, numerous instances in which the
prints of two or more homologous fingers are so nearly alike as
to be indistinguishable to the naked eye. When, for example,
the patterns in both individuals are simple loops, having the
same shape and involving the same 'YI!Umber of ridges, it is pos-
sible only by using considerable magnification to discover differ-
ences in the branching ridges and breaks in ridge continuity."
This is also true of the other types (Fig. 31a) as well, and
it is especially true of the pore structure. And let us bear in
mind that in the "Walter" reliefs or intaglios the finer details
~ may not show.
1s Murdock's Directory of City of Boston for 1932.
10 Journal of Genetics, Vol. 23, No. 3, Dec. 1930.
VII
THE ''WALTER'' PALMS
Now let us examine the main lines of the palms of our
standard hands.
By main lines we do not mean the creases ·which are so
prominent in the palms of the hands, but certain friction ridges
which are used in the classification of palms. Figure 32 shows
the right and left hands greatly reduced in size, but presented
here in order to indicate these lines more clearly. Each palm,
as may be seen, is somewhat different from the other.
It will be noted that the line A crosses the palm of the right
hand at a ·much lesser angle than does the corresponding line
of the left palm, and that the positions of the deltas, a, b, c, and
d are quite different.
There are several ways of classifying palms. To the lay
reader this classification would mean even less than that of the
finger prints, and we shall not go into the details at this time
but shall rely for the present solely upon the differences which
are apparent in the illustration, leaving the actual classification
until later.
From the foregoing, it may be seen that for the first time
the "Walter" hands have been completely obtained and the
fingers definitely oriented with regard to their position and
pattern.
32
FIGURE 3 1A.
Patterns on homologus :fingers of t hree pairs of identical twil1s. They
show very close Tesemblances even ill those cases where the patterns are
unique or very unusual in character.
Reprinted by courtesy of Professor H. H . Newman.
11-9-7-5
30
Left Hand
FIGURE 32.
11-11-9-5
30
11- 9-9-5
30
R1ght Hand
Standard "Walter" hands, showing some of the main palm lines and their classification, as well as a classification of the finger tips
by Wentworth.
VIII
pARAFFIN GLOVES
Let us now turn our attention to the paraffin gloves obtained'
at Lime Street during earlier experiments, and the casts made-
from them, and see to what extent they agree with the more
recent impressions which we have just discussed.
Before impression wax (Kerr) was used, a number of
attempts were made to obtain so-called" paraffin gloves" similar
to those so successfully obtained by Geley 20
in his experiments
in Europe.
One of the first paraffin gloves (if not the first) thus obtained
was of a right hand, and was produced at Lime Street on May-
17, 1924. Someone made a plaster cast from this glove, neces-
sarily destroying the latter in the process.
We were very anxious to obtain this cast in order to study
the ridge markings on the thumb, but for a time it could not be
located. Later, however, a memorandum 21
was found at Lime
Street which had been left by Mr. E. E. Dudley on December 29,
1931, to the effect that he had taken the cast away for study.
Previous to the finding of this memorandum Mr. Dudley had_
disclaimed any knowledge of the whereabouts of this cast, but
after he had been requested several times to return it, it was
:finally left at Dr. Crandon's office and was then turned over to
the writer.
This cast (Fig. 33), while fairly complete, is somewhat
misshapen and withered in appearance, the fingers in places
having a pinched look not unlike the tips of our relief waxes
already discussed. Because of the difficulty of removing the
air from the glove when pouring in the plaste1:, not many
ridge markings are apparent, but such as there are must, of
course, be in relief.
20 Geley 's Clai1·voyance and Materialization translated from French by Stanley-
De Brath.
21 Appendi."< XII: E. E. Dudley's note with reference to cast.
33
:34 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
vVe were very much disappointed, upon examnung· it, to
find that many of the ridge markings on the ball of the thumb
(Fig. 34, A), especially at the core, had been obliterated,
leaving only a new clean surface (B) at this point, although the
·cast as a whole \Vas so~e·what dark with age. This left us
only the original photographs for study, although we did ob-
tain one of the original negatives 21
a for this purpose, which,
when carefully examined under proper illumination, sho·wed
that the papillary ridge design of the thumb was of the ulnar
loop type. From this negative we made an enlargement of the
core, and although the ridge markings have numerous defects
(due to air bubbles) which might easily be misinterpreted, there
is indication that the core may be a staple. Since this con-
clusion is based solely on the old photographic negative, it is,
-
of course, not so well founded as it would have been had it been
based on a study of the markings on the cast itself, but the
_
general indications are that these agree, at least to some extent,
with those of our recently obtained reliefs of the "\Valter"
right thumb.
We have also a second paraffin glove, which had been filled
with plaster of Paris with the probable intention of removing
the glove to ·obtain the cast, but this had never been done. The
writer removed the paraffin from the tips of the thumb and
fingers of this glove, hoping to obtain :finger or thumb ridge
markings, but only a few minor ones were found. This was
likewise a right hand of about the size of the one :first men-
tioned. It shows only a little of the palm, but the :fingers are
somewhat better shaped than those of the :first cast. It bears no
date and there is nothing to indicate to whom it belonged.
A third glove, also of a right hand, (Fig. 35), which bore
no date 22
and into which no plaster of Paris had been poured,
was carefully examined by means of transmitted light '.vith the
hope of being able to observe any ridge markings that might be
present. Nothing could be seen on the :fingers, however, so
21a Photograph by Wm. H. Kunz.
22 Proceedings A.S.P.R., Vol. I, p. 457.
FIGURE 33.
Plaster cast from paraffin glove of May 17, 1924. This thumb is clearly of the ulnar
loop type and, despite imperfections, shows many of the "Walter" characte1·istics.
FIGURE 34.
A shows the tip of the plaster cast, shown in Figure 33, as it formerly appeared;
and B, in nearly the same position, as it appeared when received by the writer, the
core markings having been practically obliterated.
FIGURE 35.
:Sack a11d front views of a paraffin ~love, probabl;y- the second one made at the seance of April 30, 1926,
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 35
these (exclusive of the thumb) were filled with plaster of Paris
.and the paraffin then removed. No ridge markings showed, but
the·fingers and nails are of the same general appearance as the
-
others.
The writer took the thumb of this hand and on the nail side
of it carefully cut an opening through the paraffin thus exposing
the interior. Here was found evidence of ridges. Those mark-
ings, however, which appear as ridges on the inside of the
paraffin, were, of course, caused by the furrows of the thumb
.about which this glove was formed. In other words, this mold
or glove theoretically should have been a normal negative, and
.it had every indication of being such.
Due to the fact that the paraffin was of a yellowish color and
that it was not easy to work through the opening we had made,
it was rather difficult to photograph; and when the ridge mark-
ings were examined under medium power and with the proper
illumination, there was not enough detail to show whether the
-centre of the core was a rod or a staple. The slant of the ridge
markings, however, indicates that it was of the ulnar loop type.
'The writer then dissected this paraffin thumb mold and was
able to examine the pattern more thoroughly, but the actual core
(Fig. 36) could not be determined, due to its imperfect struc-
ture. The remaining space in this glove was then filled with
plaster, but when the paraffin was removed nothing was ob-
tained but the stumps of the fingers and a very thin sheet of
plaster, with no markings, where the palm should be.
We have another plaster cast of four connected fingers of
the right hand (Fig. 37) . According to the date marked on
this, it was made from a glove which was produced on April 30,
1926. These fingers are much flattened and distorted, especially
the little one, but on all of them the nails are very well formed
.and the Sfcin markings on the back of the hand are quito distinct.
Part of the papiliary ridge design is fairly clear on all the tips
except that of the little finger which was obliterated in the cast-
ing, by an air pocket, as were also the lower part of the index
and ring fingers. However, as much of the pattern on these
:finger tips as can be made out seems to correspond with the
36 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
pattern on the finger tips of our recently obtained standard
right hand, that is, all seem to be ulnar loops with the possible
exception of the thumb tip. These will be discussed shortly.
In addition to the above we have a similar cast (Fig. 38),
very much deformed, consisting of the last two joints of the
little :finger, part of each of the other three fingers, and what
appears to be the nail of the thumb.
It is interesting to note that the tip of the little finger shows
some ridge design (Fig. 39) which seems to agree with the ridge
design of the little :finger on the wax relief recently obtained in
our own experiments. The only date this bears is the year-
1926.23
Mr. Bird, in Volume I of the Proceedings dealing with the
Margery Mediumship, edited by him, in Chapter XLI mentions
the different gloves made on this date and shows a photograph
of the cast of the better of the two right hands which had been
together but had fallen apart when the paraffin was removed.
It seems as if there must be some error here, for certainly
the structure shown in Figure 37 is better than that shown in
Figure 38.
So far as we know, there is nothing in the records or the
Proceedings which indicates whose hands these represent,
although Mr. Dudley quotes "Walter" as stating that he knew
who made the glove but as declining to say at that time who
it was. \Ve do not know to which glove of the set this refers.
According to Mr. Dudley's statement in the manuscript
Proceedings, there appear to have been made on this date
(April 30, 1926) one mold, consisting of a right and left hand
clasped, carrying ridge markings; a short, thick, right hand
without markings; and a mold containing two right hands to-
gether with both thumbs detached, but buried in the paraffin of
the corresponding gloves. Apparently the two illustrations we
are using are of the two latter, although one thumb is attached.
These, as we have said, are poorly formed.
The tip of the thumb which shows in Figure 37 is classified
23 Proceedings A.S.P.R., Vol. I, p. 456.
FIGURE 36.
View of a section of the back of the thumb of pm·affin glove, cut away and
exposing part of th.e negative impression on the ball of the right thumb. Beside it,
a plaster cast made from this.
FIGURE 37.
P laster cast of Tight hand made April 30, 1926. The tip of the thumb, which
was apparently separate, does not show suffident detail to allow of cleteTmining
whether it bears an ulnm· or a radial loop. It is not certain that the thumb belongs
with this hand.
FIGURE 38.
Plaste r· cast of a right lrand, very much deformed, obtained April 30, 1926.
Apparently, this and the one shown in Figme 37 were made at the same time and
were lightly clasped together.
Right Little Finger
Wax Re lief
193Z
Plaster Cast of
Paraffin Glove 1
926
FIGURE 3·9.
Comparison of the little finger of one of the plaster casts of April 30, 192·6, and!
that of the standard " "
Walter" right hand. Plnste1
· cast so worn that it is difficnlt;
to make out mauy of its characteristics.
MARGERY MEDIUMSI-IIP 37
by Mr. Dudley as a radial loop, on the assumption that it belongs
to the same hand as do the fingers, and as having a small ridge
count. The photograph indicates that the loop may be a radial,
although the ridges are so obliterated that we could not say that
it might not possibly be an ulnar loop, on the same assumption
that he makes, i.e. that it belongs with these fingers.
If it is radial, it is certainly not a "vValter" right thumb.
It seems hardly reasonable to think of it as the tip of the left
thumb.
Mr. Dudley classified the five fingers of this hand-at least
we believe the hand shown in Figure 37 is the one he is
using-and his classification as compared with that made by
Mr. Wentworth for both our standard "Walter" right and left
hands, is as follows:
Thumb Index Middle Ring Little
Right (E.E.D.)23a. R ~ U or A u u 6 ~ u 10 7
Right (B.W.) u 22 U4 us u 18 u 9
Left (B.W.) u 12 R4 U9 u 16 u 7 7
It is rather difficult to draw any conclusions from these
figures.
Mr. Dudley feels that the ridge counts of the index :finger
if ulnar, and of the middle :finger, are small. He says the pat-
terns on the little fingers of these casts, over corresponding
areas, show some :fifteen identical characteristics, but as in one
of the casts that we show the ball of the little finger is missing,
we assume that the one to which he refers belongs to the right
hand of the other set which was produced on the same evening.
Nevertheless, there are numerous characteristics ·which indi-
cate that there are some points of similarity between this cast
and our standard hand.
We also have a single broken finger which apparently be-
longed to another cast, which is undated, and on which the ridge
design of the tip is fairly clear, although partially obliterated by
a large air pocket. The general shape of this :finger, which has
2sa Manuseript proceedings by E. E. Dudley.
38 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
very good skin markings all over it and shows the nail, would
indicate that it is the index finger of a right hand, but because
of the defect on the under side, due to the air pocket, we cannot
determine its identity.
When the fingers of these various casts are compared, they
show many points of similarity, such as length of joints, general
appearance, and texture of skin, all of which seem to indicate
that they represent one and the same hand.
On November 19, 1932, we received two finger casts, shown
in Figure 40, which Dr. Erik Twachtman of Cincinnati, Ohio,
had had in his possession ever since 1926.24
These were still
partly covered with a thin coating of paraffin which, when re-
moved, revealed plaster casts, one of which (A) appears to be
the index finger of a right hand. The tip of this bears a well
marked design which agrees with the design on the index finger
(Fig. 41) of the right hand of our recent waxes.
The other cast (B) is apparently that of a left thumb, al-
though of this we do not feel certain, for while the bulb contains
some ridge markings there are not enough of them to warrant
classification, and the part where the scar would be located,
were it a "\iValter" thumb, is practically obliterated. The gen-
eral slant of the lines, however, would indicate it to be of the
ulnar loop type, if it is a left thumb.
According to the records, still other casts have been ob-
tained at Lime Street, but they cannot now be located. Also, we
understand that some of the early investigators attempted to
make gloves of their own hands in experimenting with
paraffin. How successful they were we do not know, but we do
know that there are now materials in which even difficult molds
of human hands may be made.24
"' Figure 42 shows a cast from
such a mold.
The writer has examined photographs of some of the
missing casts, but there are no markings which show, so they
are of little importance in this connection except for the fact
24 Appenclix XIII: Dr. Twachtman 's report on casts.
24.a Dr. Poller 's method of molding by the Moulage Process.
FIGURE 40.
P laster casts of two fingers received from Dr. Twachtman, o11e apparently a right
index finger and the other a. left thumb.
Right Index Finger
Wax Relief
1932
Plaster Cast of
Paraffin Glove made
before 192.6
FIGURE 41.
Comparison of the plaster cast of index finger recei ved f rom Dr. Twaclttman and that-
of standard "Walter" right hand, showing numerous points of similarity.
FIGURE 42.
Cast from living body- a seamless one piece mold. It was formerly supposed
that such c
1ifficult molds could not be made in one piece. Now, by the use of the
method of Professor Paller of Paris, this has become comparatively simple.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 39
that they conform in g-eneral appearance to the others already
mentioned.
We are not placing- particular weig-ht upon the evidence
afforded by these g-loves, insofar as the thumbs are concerned,
since they all lack sufficient detail of the core, but they do ag-ree
with the standard "Walter" rig-ht thumb in being of the ulnar
loop type. It is important to note, however, that these early
casts, which the records state are of the "Walter" hands, cor-
respond in many details of finger tip pattern, and of the palms
in those cases where the palm design is apparent, with those
most recently obtained in wax, indicating that they all represent
one and the same hand.
IX
EABLY \TVAX IMPRESSIONS
vVe shall now turn our attention to the earlier waxes in order
to show to what extent, if any, they agree with our standard
"vValter" hands, but before doing so let us record how wax
(Kerr) :first came to be used in these experiments.
On July 30, 1926, "Margery" visited her dentist, Dr.
''X,'' for treatment. While she was there they discussed some
of the psychic phenomena which had been taking place in her
seances, and especially the subject of the paraffin gloves. He
was naturally interested, as he had formerly been a member of
the group at Lime Street, although that was before any of the
gloves bad been produced. He suggested to "Marg·ery" the
possibility of using in these experiments a dental impression
compound, a molding wax called Kerr, which softens under a
temperature of from 120° to 130° F. In cooling it has little dis-
tortion, and, if care is taken, usually gwes a clear cut
impression.
The dentist showed "Margery" how this wax might be
used by actually making impressions of his own thumbs. When
she left for home she took these with her, together with pieces
of unused Ked, and on that evening, July 30, 1926, the :first wax
impression, a positive, was obtained. The history of the sample
impressions made by Dr. "X" ·will be discussed later in this
report.
Just how many supernormal wax impressions of all kinds
have actually been made during the history of this case we do not
know, but there must have been very nearly two hundred of
them. We have studied more than one hundred which were made
between July 30, 1926 and July, 1932. On many of them the im-
pressions are much too faint to be of any use whatsoever. Some
of those that were fairly well impressed are only partial prints,
and others that have fair markings are undated or unnumbered,
40
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 41
or so.poorly identified that they cannot be checked against the
early records.
Several years ago the writer made in his laboratory, for Mr.
Dudley, photographs of a group of seventy-five of the so-called
"vValter" prints, which Mr. Dudley desired more for the pur-
pose of showing the multiplicity of the waxes than anything
else. We are showing two views of this group-the obverse in
Figure 43 and reverse in Figure 44. Checking the waxes we
have for examination against those shown in this group, we find
that we have only about half of them. Very few waxes have
been given away, and as Mr. Dudley had general charge of all
the waxes for several years, we presume he can account for
many of those which we cannot :find.
Before entering upon the discussion of these early waxes,
we may say that apparently there is little difference of opinion as
to the proper classification of many of them as normal positives
or normal negatives. The differences of opinion which do
fxist as to proper identification we believe to be clue chiefly to·
assumptions made in the interpretation of the design which, in
our opinion, the facts do not warrant. These points will be·
brought out as we discuss typical waxes. vVe might say here thatt
in addition to some waxes which in the past have been classified as:
containing characteristics of both positive and negative impres-
sions of the "Walter" thumbs, there are others, which have
also been supernormally produced, which have characteristics
of more than one individual in their pattern, depending to some
extent, perhaps, upon conditions existing at the time the phe -
nomena took place. Such results could not occur under the con-
trol we imposed in our own experiments unless by some super-
normal means of production, and, we might add, there have been
a number of instances, well known to those frequenting Lime
Street, where, ·when a print was being made, "\iValter" has said
that there was difficulty in preventing some of the character-
istics of the medium from getting into the design. ·waxes having
just these indications have been obtained in the past, and
"Walter" has stated that he cannot always control the situa-
tion. Our standard "\i
Valter" right hand, illustrated in
42 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Figure 6, shows a scar, s, to which we have already referred,
on the palm near the base of the thumb, which "Walter" told
us was "Margery's" scar. He called our attention to this scar
at the time of making the print and before we had had an
opportunity to examine it. It does not appear on any of the
other right hands we have obtained. "Margery" in fact, has a
scar on her right hand somewhat corresponding to the scar on
the wax.
FIGURE 43.
Group of se>enty-five waxes, each bearing one or more impressions, which were photographed by the writer early
in 1930 for the purpose of showing the variety of such waxes rather than their detail.
l!"'IGURE 44.
Backs of waxes illustrated in Figure 43, showing in some cases marks of identification.
X
CLASSIFICATION OF WAXES
We have studied critically in the preparation of this report
more than one hundred waxes, about sixty of which were old
·ones, that is to say, waxes which had been obtained during the
earlier period of the finger-print phenomena.
For convenience in presenting the data pertaining to these,
we are arbitrarily dividing them into nine groups, either accord-
ing to their principal characteristics or to the conditions under
which they were produced. Some of these waxes have such
faint or worn patterns that they are practically useless for com-
parison but most of them have a design that can be determined,
and we shall show that these agree with our standards.
A. PosiTIVE IMPRESSIONS
This type of impression was apparently the :first to be pro-
·duced, and we have some twenty of the older ones. Until recently
"Walter" claimed that positive impressions were the easiest for
him to make, but he now says that he can as easily make a
negative as a positive if the energy is sufficient and has the
right qualities----:-whatever that may mean.
The wax supposed to have been the one :first made, that
marked 1 of July 30, 1926,25
actually bears two impressions,
·one on either side (Fig. 45). One of these, possibly the first,
is only partial, perhaps having been somewhat obliterated when
the second one was impressed, and is a little more distinct than
the one on the other side which shows an elongated print and a
partial joint line which is depressed. The general direction of
the core and the position of the delta on this latter print indi-
-
cate that it is probably a normal positive relief of the "Walter"
right thumb, and it is so classified in the J ournal,26
although this
25 Psychic Research, August, 1928, p. 463.
2a Ibid., p. 464.
43
44 MARGERY MEDIUl\IISHIP
classification appears to have been based wholly on the appear-
ance of a scar which -vvas depressed and which was said to show
in the upper right hand section of the print. We shall have
more to say about this scar later.
In our opinion there is not enough detail in either of these
prints at the present time to indicate their ridge patterns. Ap-
parently the wax was not deeply marked, the lines being very
light, and it is now much worn from handling.
Figure 45 also shows a print made August 5, 1926, which is
elongated like the :first. This design is somewhat clearer, al-
though this wax, also, is quite worn. In this print the centre of
the core might easily be taken for a rod rather than a staple.
This is partly due to the fact that the core is quite worn and that
the right-hand side of this central staple is somewhat accentu-
ated by a minute globule of wax which lies at a higher level than
the surrounding elements, giving it the appearance of being
separate from them. There may also be another reason for this
appearance, which occurs on a few other waxes, and which we
shall treat in detail later. This wax also seems to show the
depressed scar at the upper right which was mentioned in the
Journal in connection with No. 1. Undoubtedly the print was
intended for a normal positive relief of the "Walter" right
thumb.
There are two prints dated September 5, 1926, both elongated
and both rather poorly made, but showing a depressed joint
line and scar at the upper right. The cores of these prints are
now so faint that they can scarcely be made out, although one is
similar to that of the print of August 5th. These likewise
appear to be attempts at a normal positive relief of the right
thumb.
An imprint dated March 21, 1927 shows a depressed joint
line, and the position of the delta and slant of the lines of the
~;ore indicate that it is a normal positive relief, but the core is
now so worn that the details are difficult to determine although
it bears indications of being a staple. The scar at the upper left,
noted in connection with previous waxes, is depressed.
FIGURE 45.
Two views of the ftrst impression obtained in dental wax (Ken ), the upper show-
ing a more or less complete thumb impression, although poorly made; center view
showing what remains of the impression which was on the back of the upper one.
Lower cut sho,vs what appears to have been the second impression obtained at a later
elate.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
A wax dated June 9, 1927, is much distorted and shows only
a partial print which is exceedingly poor. The texture of this
print is much like the previous one but it, too, is so worn that
it cannot now be positively identified although indications are
that it is a normal positive relief.
A wax of June 30, 1927 also bears a partial print, in which
the core is a staple. This, too, appears to be a normal positive
l'elief.
One wax of July 14, 1927, (Fig. 46), is described in much
detail in the manuscript Proceedings and in the J ournal.27
According to the records this was the :fifth wax of the group·
made on this date. It is somewhat hemispherical in shape, the
ridge markings are quite clear, and a feature of especial impor-
tance is the extra wide furrow at the centre of the core, the
remaining furrows being of normal width. This impression
might easily be classed as a sport, certainly as a special case,
and might be lightly passed over if it were not for the fact that
so much has been made of it in the Journal. Because of this.
it is of interest to consider how it varies from our standard
right thumb in relief, if at all.
In a statement from the manuscript Proceedings, about this.
wax, which is marked No. 35 on the back, and, as old No. 23,
is shown in Psychic Research, August 1928, p. 461, emphasi~
is laid upon the important fact to which we now come, as follows :.
"During the seance talk, "Walter" of his own notion had
stated that he would make a print with the central trough of"
extra width but with all other ridges and depressions of usual
dimensions. This was in fact a bit of a joke. There was a small
controversy raging abou,
t the identity of the true central ele-
ment in positive and negative prints;* Walter said that on the
print coming next he would stretch out this central element so
that there could be no mistake about it and no trouble :finding
it. The photograph indicates strikingly that he did something
which casual examination would interpret in just those terms.
In point of fact, the print is a positive. The central ridge is
21 Psychic Research, August, 1928, p. 460.
* (Our italics.)
46 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
completely excised, so that the central element of this print
consists of a depression of triple width occupying the sp~ce
ordinarily taken up by the true central ridge. and the depressions
at either side. Two points should be emphasized here-that Fife
and Dudley examined the print immediately after the seance
dosed and found it in precisely the condition in which the photo-
graph shows it; and that, while there remain what might be
taken for traces of the missing ridge, there are no marks in any
sense suggesting the ravages of a tool.''
vVe now quote again, this time from Psychic Research,
August, 1928, p. 460, where Dudley, after referring to a promise
by "\iValter" "to make the central trough in the loop broad,"
says: ''Realizing that he was speaking in terrns of the negative
p1··ints ''' and that what we have here is a positive in which the
central trough becomes the central ridge, we see that he has
wholly made good on this promise.''
And further on, "We were somewhat disturbed by the fact
that following the delivery of this print, no other normal posi-
tive was made by \Valter for a matter of some months~ in fact
nntil his attention was called to this fact all subsequent prints
were either negatives or mirror positives.''
When "Walter's" attention was called to this lack of normal
positives, "he at once made not one but several", all of which
were fully executed, but Mr. Dudley did not illustrate or describe
them because they lay beyond the time period covered by the
report he was making.
Let us analyze the foregoing in the light of what we now
know.
A careful study of this wax, especially at the core, shows
slight traces at the top, and considerably more at the lower end,
of the missing ridge of which Mr. Dudley speaks and under
about thirty magnifications there are visible a number of :fine
grooves running practically the whole length of the core.
Let us look at a diagrammatic view (Fig. 47) of the core
of the "Walter" normal positive right thumb in relief (A).
* (Our italics.)
FIGURE 46.
One of th e impressions obtained July 14, 1927, which is a ' 'Walter"
right thumb in relief and shows that one side of the
staple has been almost eliminated.
X
tti1I I
p
,,
s Jlr. p
,,.:;
I I
I
c
A B
FIGURE 47.
A shows diagrammatically the "Walter" right thumb in relief; B shows one side
of the staple partially removed as in Figure 46. C shows tip of core and how it
would appear if reconstructed.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 47
We note that this core s is a furrow surrounded by a staple
whose side ridges are marked r and t, and that to the right of
this is a ridge p which in many prints terminates at point x.
The diagrammatic sketch of the wax to which we are referring
is shown at B. In this the right-hand side of the staple r is
shown as a dotted line. This is the side which a casual examina-
tion of the wax shows to have been left out or excised. Notice
also that at point x in the enlarged diagram C the top of what
is left of ridge r of the staple joins with ridge t of the staple.
Now, under high magnification, as has already been stated, there
is indication of remnants of this ridge r not only all along this
core, but also at point x where it would normally join were
it fully present as shown in A.
In other words we find again what we have so frequently
noted, that the "Walter" right thumb has a staple at the core
and therefore that in general this wax agrees with our standard
right thumb. Mr. Dudley mentions other peculiarities such as
certain dimensions and the position of the delta, but these do not
affect the core.
Let us examine "Walter's" statement concerning this
matter as recorded by Mr. Dudley.
"Walter" had promised to make the central trough in the
loop broad so that there would be no question as to what it looked
like. It is apparent that one way in which this might be accom-
plished would be by removing the side of the staple marked r in
our drawing. This would leave the ridge p still connected with
the left side of the staple t thereby keeping the type of the
formation of the core the same without interfering with the
spacing of the other ridges, and giving us the results shown in
B to which we have already referred.
It would appear that it was "Walter's" intention to so
accentuate the core of his thumb that there could be no question
with regard to its design; and certainly there could be no object
in removing part of the design if by so doing its pattern would
be changed.
We have further evidence in the fact that on another oc-
48 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
casion/8
when "Walter" was asked without warning if he
could make an enlarged impression of his own thumb he said
he could, and did it immediately, as may be seen in Figure 48
of a wax made on November 14, 1930. But this was not enlarged
in the way which we expected, for the wax has the appearance
of having been pulled out considerably longer and somewhat
wider after the impression had been made and before it had had
time to cool, thus spreading out the pattern, although not uni-
formly. Such a procedure in the wax under discussion would
have affected other ridges as well as the staple. Therefore, it
appears as if in order to accentuate this point, one side of the
staple had in some way been modified, still leaving a complete
staple at the core because of the contiguous ridge already
mentioned.
If, as Mr. Dudley claims, the core is a rod, the only way of
widening it would be by stretching it. Removing it would not
give the same result. The ridges, not the furrows, are the
elements, and the furrows are the spaces between these
elements.
There is no mention in the old records, so far as we are
aware, of any statement by "Walter" which specifies what the
core of his right thumb in relief is like, but at the time of making
this wax "Walter" said he would make the loop broader and in
our recent experiments he has stated that the core of the right
thumb in relief is a loop, which is what is technically known as a
~taple.
We do not understand what basis Mr. Dudley had for his
statement to the effect that he realized that "Walter" was
speaking in terms of negative prints when he spoke of the
furrow in the centre of the core of his thumb.
Moreover, Mr. Dudley said that there had been a controversy
over just what constituted the core of the thumb in relief,-as
quoted above; and still further on, he says that he (Dudley)
was disturbed because no more normal positives-with the rod
at the core according to his classification-were received for
some time, and that when this was called to "Walter's" atten-
28 Appendix XIV: Minutes of meeting 11-14-30_
FIGURE 48.
A rather unusual impression in wax of the "Walter" right thumb, obtained November 14,
1930, and made 011 demand that "Waiter" produce an enlarged print of his right thumb.
This has every appearance of having been enlarged by stretching when the wax was soft, and
if so was clone supernormally.
lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 49'
tion the latter made several positives which were fully executed.
We presume by this that Mr. Dudley means that he obtained
some with a rod in the centre. According- to his statement he did
not use or publish these because they were produced at a later
date than the period his report was covering-.
We, too, recognize this wax-No. 35 of July 14, 1927-as a
normal positive relief of the "Walter" rig-ht thumb, but having
a staple at the core, not a rod as Mr. Dudley believes.
The simplest way to emphasize the character of this central
element would seem to be by the widening- of this staple, which
would be accomplished by the removal of one of the sides. If
the centre of the core were a rod, its removal would entirely
change the character of the core, not emphasize it. (When one
speaks of the core one refers to the ridges, not to the furrows
caused by them.)
vVe have a wax dated July, 1927, the exact date looking- like
a 12 althoug-h it is very indistinct. While this is a small piece
of wax with only the upper part of the print showing, it is quite
distinct and is without question a "Walter" normal positive
relief and shows clearly the staple at the core. If this is a wax
of the 12th we wonder if it may not be the wax of that date·
which is mentioned in the manuscript Proceeding-s as having
disappeared.
We also have a wax bearing- a small partial impression, dated
April 14, 1928, which is very clearly a "Walter" normal posi-
tive relief with a staple at the core.
Another very good wax showing quite clearly the ball of the
"Walter" right thumb is marked P2' (Fig. 49) but the date
cannot be deciphered. Whether this P stands for positive we
do not know but that the impression is the "Walter" normal
positive there is not the least doubt, and there is a well defined
staple at the core.
We have also the :five impressions which were shown in
Figure 28, none of which is complete. Each of these is clearly
of the "Walter" rig-ht thumb in relief and shows a staple at the
core.
To recapitulate, therefore, these normal positive reliefs of
-50 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the '' vValter'' right thumb show almost without exception that
the core is a staple. There are a few in which the tip of the
·core is not very clear; and a few in which it appears as a rod.
These latter will be discussed under another heading.
To the best of our knowledge there have been no positive
impressions of the "\iValter" left thumb except those of recent
·date which we obtained in our experiments resulting in a stand-
ard "Walter" left hand, and a few which were shown in Figure
29, which clearly show the characteristics of this digit including
the well marked scar.
B. NoRMAL NEGATIVEs
Turning now to the normal negative impressions, one of
·the earliest that we have is that of February 3, 1927, wax No. 11.
This -vvax (Fig. 50) is of particular interest and is described
at some length in the manuscript Proceedings. The core of this
print distinctly consists of a ridge which, if it were used as a
die, would give us a positive agreeing with our standard "Wal-
ter" normal positive relief.
Let us see what Mr. Dudley has to say about this in the
manuscript Proceedings:
"PmcE No. 11 is the third print made on February 3d, and
was :first listed as a normal negative. There is no doubt as to
the propriety of its inclusion in the negative category but it
is somewhat of a misnomer to call it "normal," inasmuch as
it is the print upon which "Walter" has presented one of the
most ingeniM~s of his arbitrary variations from the nonn.
''This print is of such importance in the discussion of the
ideoplastic hypothesis of the origin of these phenomena, that
an indexed photograph* is presented at this point.
''The upper part of the print, down to a point about a
·quarter-inch below the core, is quite regular, but below the
-curved line A-A' there is a distinct departure from the norm;
the ridges appear to continue as in a normal print except that
they are straight instead of curving to the right as they should.
A careful examination of the print proves that the character-
•· No copy of this photograph is available to the writer.
FIGURE 49.
A wax bearing a "Walter" right thumb in relief, showing quite clearly a staple
a.t the core with a. well defined tip and no indication of a plateau or sink in this
region.
FIGURE 50.
A wax intaglio of the "Walter" right thumb, obtained on F ebruary 3, 1927.
'This can not be called a wholly normal negative, but the center and upper pa1't of
the core show clearly, in the actual wax, that the "Walter" thumb must have a
.staple in the positive.
j
j .
/
I
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 51
istics above line A-A' are repeated below that line, as shown
by the index numbers 1-1', 2-2', etc., but are offset one ridge to
the right. An exception occurs with No. 4; the normal bifurca-
tion coming so close to the transition line A-A' that only the
lower characteristic is shown.
''Near the central loop the ridges are continuous across A-A',_
but beginning about seven ridges to the left there is a slight
offset at the point of junction. This offset is very slight, and
there is no indication, even at the extreme left of the print,
that any mechanical operations have been performed on any of
these minutiae.
''Obviously, such a print cannot be produced by a double
imprinting from the same digit, since the ridges carrying the
repeated minutiae are almost straight instead of curving as
they do above the transition line. Therefore, the conclusion
seems inescapable that the alteration was deliberately conceived
and carried out.''
From the above it will be seen that Mr. Dudley classifies
this wax as a normal negative with some variations, and accord-
ing to his statement these variations do not affect the upper part
of the core and yet the core agrees fully with our standard.
We have two waxes of March 5, 1927, one of which is much
distorted and marked very faintly but sufficiently to show that
it, like the other, is a normal negative. One shows a raised
joint line, and the core of this wax is fairly clear althoug·h the
upper end of it is worn, so that the ridges appear to form a
loop. This condition will b@l discussed later on in connection
with the positive waxes having a similar characteristic.
A wax dated June 30, 1927, is badly distorted and appears
as if a part of it had been broken off after the wax had been
impressed. This impression is only partial but it is evidently
a normal negative and the core clearly agrees with our standard.
Mr. Dudley, in the manuscript Proceedings, so classifies it.
We have one print of July 9, 1927, with indications of being-
a normal negative, and according to Mr. Dudley's statements
this wax bears identification marks (which we presume are the
notches on its edge and an X on the back) and was identified
by Mr. Bird.
.52 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Wax No. 32, of July 14, 1927, has been broken in halves and
mended, which probably accounts for the absence of most of
the cloth markings which Mr. Dudley mentions as appear-
ing on the back. It is a normal negative, although not par-
ticularly well impressed, and shows a ridge at the core, thereby
agreeing with our standard.
On August 23, 1927, according to the records, three prii1ts
were made, all of which were supposedly normal negative im-
pressions of the "Walter" left thumb. Mr. Fife and Mr. Dudley
were both present at the time, and according to their statements
these waxes were identical in design.
Since we are going to discuss these left thumb impressions
in connection with some of the criticisms of the "\i\Talter" left
thumb impressions we shall here only mention that we have in
-
our possession, and have had for some time, two of these waxes.
That marked No. 1 is shown in Fig. 51. It has been somewhat
damaged but not to an extent which interferes with its iden-
-tification. That marked No. 3 is shown in Fig. 52 and if the
reader will examine these he will notice the deep scar across
the center of the ball of the thumb, to which we have already
referred in considering the "Walter" hands.
The joint lines on these waxes are raised, although in the
photograph they may not look so.
These waxes agree in detail with those of our standard
·"\¥alter" left thumb.
On August 18, 1927, :five excellent normal negative impres-
:sions of the "Walter" right thumb were obtained. '0le have
four of these, No. 1, No. 3, No. 4 and No. 5,-all of which show
.a negative joint line, most of the ball of the thumb and the delta,
and the core particularly well. Three of them have been broken
and repaired, one by the writer, the others before they were
received by him. They are in general well executed, and we
class them as normal negatives, and believe that the evidence
indicates that they are all "Wa~ter" normal negative right
thumb impressions.
If we take any one of these four waxes and examine it
.carefully we shall :find that not only is the joint line raised as
FIGURE '5'1.
One of the three negative impressions of the "Walter" left thumb obtained on
August 23, 1927. It agrees with our stanc
lard "Walter" left thumb. This wax is
in our possession. Note characteristic scar.
r
FIGURE 52.
Another of the three negative impressions of the "Walter" left thumb obtained on August 23,
1927. This likewise agt·ees with our standard ''Walter'' left thumb. Also in our possession.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 53
it should be, and that its bifurcation opens in the proper direc-
tion, namely to the left as we look at the wax, but that the
friction ridge pattern is of the ulnar loop type, and that the
furrows, which of course represent the ridges on the real finger,
form a staple at the core. Further if we should make a positive
from any one of these negatives we would find that it agrees
with our standard "Walter" right thumb.
Mr. Dudley, at some length/9
goes into considerable detail
with regard to these waxes, illustrating two of them by cuts.
He classifies them as normal negatives, and calls particular
attention to the fact that there is something peculiar about the
upper end of the core. He says that the ridges do not join as
they should, and that instead of forming a U-shaped ridge
around the central core they simply bound this core on either
side and run up to dead ends. He even makes the statement that
the tip of the core looks as if it had been "routed out" at the
top; but experts who have made a careful microscopic examina-
tion of this state that there is no evidence of any "routing' >
having been done.
We are showing, in Figure 53, wax No. 3 of this series, which:
we hope will reproduce with sufficient clearness to show its
structure.
To show more clearly the structure of the tip of the core,
we have made micro-photographs of it, one of which appears
here, (Fig. 54), which clearly indicate that the thumb that made
this impression had a staple at the core, for the furrows of
the impressing member clearly show as disconnected ridges.
Due to illusion the ridges may appear in this photograph as
furrows..
Moreover, in the manuscript Proceedings which Mr. Dudley
recently wrote, he again goes into detail with regard to the
waxes of this date, calling them, as we do, normal negatives,
wi'thout any particularly salient points except in so far as the
intensity of the joint line is concerned, which does not alter the
situation in the least; and so far as we can see he makes no
2 9 Psychic Research, August, 1928, p. 453 et seq.
54 MARGERY MEDIUMSI-IIP
reference in this article to the "routing out" of the core which
he so strongly stressed in the previous article.
All these negative waxes are very clear, and in the diagram
(Fig. 55) it can be seen that the ridges in the center at
r and s terminate smoothly and do not join as they must if
they form a rod in the center of the positive as Mr. Dudley
claims they do.
This is also true of a very much deformed wax, No. 78 of
August 9, 1928 (Fig. 56). It is bent almost at right angles and
that part of the impression that shows clearly, discloses a nor-
mal negative with a ridge at the core, again agreeing with our
"Walter" standard thumb. An impression of July 9, 1929,
which _
may be a "Walter" negative, is very much distorted
on its surface. We believe this was produced at the suggestion
of Mr. Fife who asked "Walter" to make a rough and irregular
print of his :finger. The impression looks as if the impressing
member had been pulled away while the wax was too hot, which
roughened the surface.
'rhe last wax in this category which we shall mention is
one of November 28, 1930. (Fig. 57) (A). This was prepared
by Mr. Dudley, who embedded in the back (B) a circular piece
oi" material that looks like shellacked cloth similar to that used
for insulation purposes in electrical work. Several perfora-
tions had been made in this cloth bef_
ore imbedding it in the
wax. This particular wax is a normal negative and was marked
Non the front by Mr. Dudley. Only part of the impression shows.
The core distinctly and clearly carries a ridge in the center
and the furrows in this negative would form a staple in a
positive.
We have two waxes of May 27, 1932, which are quite well
impressed although one is somewhat distorted and is pierced
by a hole which was made when it was produced. Both of
these are "Walter" normal negatives and agree with the
standard.
. There are also two normal negative waxes of June 13, 1932,
which, while fairly legible, would not reproduce satisfactorily.
FIGURE 53.
One of a sel'ies of normal negative "Walter" right thumb impressions which agree with
the thumb of our standard hand. A careful examination of the core shows that its center
<!onsists of a single ridge which would give a staple in a normal positive made from it.
FIGURE 54.
A micro-photograph of the tip of a "Walter" normal negative core, clearly-
showing a single ridge at the center and surrounded by a depression which, in the-
positive, becomes a staple. To some observers, the center may look depressed rather
than raised, due to illusion.
FIGURE 55.
A diagram made direct from a micro-photograph to show the staple at the core
in the "Walter" positive and the smoothly ending ridges r ancl s in the negative.
The white lines in the positive represent actual papillary ridges forming the staple,
while in the negative they represent ridges caused by the furrows of the positive.
FIGURE 56.
.A somewhat deformed wax, showing a "Walter" negative impression which, if
examined with a Teading glass, will be seen to have a single 1
·idge at the coTe.
FIGURE 57A.
A wax dated N oYembCl' 28, 1930, cnnying another "Walter" negative impression
which, with slight magnification, is seen to have a single ridge at the center. This
piece of ll'ax was marked for identifi cation by Mr. E. E. Dudley, as may be seen at B.
FIGURE 57B.
The ba ck of wax shown at A and shows a piece of fabric inserted for purpose of
identification.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 55
They are much out of shape, but clearly show a ridge at the
core and thereby agree with our standard.
It will be seen from a comparison of these negative impres-
sions that in nearly all cases the waxes would, if used as dies,
produce a staple at the core of the posihve which ·would agree
with our standard "Walter" right thumb.
There are no recent normal negatives of the "vValter" left
thumb and there have been only a few in the past.
In examining these waxes one is likely to be lead astray if
the lighting is not correct and if 'monocular vision is solely
depended upon. In some cases we found it necessary to
measure the depressions and ridges at the tip to determine a1
just what level a particular point 1vas located.
C. MuLTIPLE PRINTS
There have been numerous instances in ·which two impres-
~ions have been produced on a single wax, and a few cases in
which three imprints have been made. vVe happen to have ten
such waxes, most of which are so poor that it is difficult to
determine their details.
One very poor double impression, dated August 5, 1926, is on
::t wax numbered 2. The impressions are roughly at right angles
with each other and Mr. Dudley agrees that they are too poor
to classify. He says, however, that the primary impression may
be distinguished as a positive. To judge by what can be seen
of the lines, their direction is correct for this inference, but the
core cannot be determined.
One, dated January 18, 1927, bears two prints which Mr.
Dudley classified in the manuscript Proceedings as a positive
;:tJ1d a negative, as follows :
"It carries two concave prints, one a normal negative and
the other a concave positive; but unlike the early positives, this
one conforms to the size and sharie of the average negative,
quite lacking the elongation and the narrowed effect of Nos. 1,
2, 3, 6, 7. The concavity of the positive is, however, fully equal
to that of the negative, and to this fact we must attribute much
of the early confusion between normal and mirror types. By
56 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the middle of July, 1927, a sufficient number of prints had been
obtained so that the true nature of the concave positive became
apparent. Nevertheless, this pair of prints of J anuary 18th
was so perfectly matched in contour and apparent reversal that
it is not surprising that their relationship was not immediately
understood. ·with the knowledge acquired from the analysis
of numerous later prints came the realization that almost any
conceivable or inconceivable modification might occur in finger
prints that behaved as abnormally as do these.''
Our examination of this wax, which is much worn, shows that
the positive appears to have a rod at the core such as we have
found in a few other instances, although there seems to be a
decided tendency toward the formation of a staple, and it bears
no sign of a scar. We shall discuss this later. The negative,
on the other hand, has much better detail, and shows a ridge at
the core. There is no indication of a scar in this, either, but it
does show a poorly made negative joint line. This print seems
to agree with our standard.
The question of the concavity or convexity of the surface
in any positive imprint is probably of minor importance, if any.
We have handled that point by considering these as reliefs
which may vary in depth, as in sculpturing, from low to high.
Another wax bearing a double print is that of March 21,
1927. This is now too worn to be deciphered. The joint lines
are raised as in a negative, and the general slant of the lines of
the cores indicate that both may be negatives. Mr. Dudley
classified them as such.
On July 9, 1927, another set of prints was obtained, but these
also are quite worn and the details· are practically obliterated,
although both show indications of being negative impressions.
One of them seems to show, however, that the core carries a
ridge, which would produce a staple in a positive made from it,
thus agreeing with our standard. These prints were likewise
classified by Mr. Dudley as normal negatives.
Piece No. 27, dated July 15, 1927, carries two impressions of
the central region of the ball of the thumb, superimposed one
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 57
upon the other and at right angles with each other. Mr. Dudley
classified these as follows :30
''On the one piece of wax there occur two prints, both norma}
negatives, and neither complete. The condition of the wax-
strongly suggests that after one print had been made the wax
was folded approximately along the center of the print. As a
result part of the print is lost and part is on the extremely con-
vex edge of the fold. The .other print then appears to have been
}aid down on a concave surface presented by the folded wax,
hut the original seems to have been too large for complete
accommodation on that surface. Both prints show enough de-
tails for complete identification, beyond whrch, in view of their
accidentally incomplete character, they are of no further
jnterest.''
To judge by the few lines of one of these which are not
masked by the other and can be clearly seen, it looks as if it
may be a normal negative, and as much as can be seen of the
joint line substantiates this. The other impression, however,
whether it was made :first or last, is by no means a normal
negative as Mr. Dudley has claimed. The core clearly shows a
staple, and the outer lines, as well as the core, agree with our
standard "Walter" right thumb, though its general inclination
is different. vVe wish it were possible to show this satisfac-
torily in the photograph (Fig. 58).
We have a double impression, marked No. 44, made on July
22, 1927. Mr. Dudley calls both prints normal negatives and
we are inclined to agree with this, for though on one the core
cannot now be determined, the position of the delta and the
general direction of the lines indicate it. The other impression,
likewise poor, shows clearly, however, a ridge at the core which
would produce a staple at the core of a positive made from it.
Another wax, made on September 9, 1929, bears two over-
lapping prints and a third one at one side. These are too worn
and faint in design to permit anyone to say what they represent.
We have also two of the waxes imprinted on October 2'0,
so Manuscript proceedings.
58 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
1929. No. 1 was made in five minutes-according to the data
it bears-and consists of two overlapping impressions. Tho
general slant of the lines of these and the negative joint line of
one indicate that they are both negatives.
Wax No. 2 of this date has two impressions, but only one i::;
of any use, and that is a negative which sho·ws a ridge at the
core which, as a die, would produce the "vValter" normal posi-
tive right thumb with a staple at the core. There is a small
area, however, directly below this impression, but not connected
with it, which shows a joint line depressed as in the positive.
This condition of ~ negative 'ivax with a positive joint line is
unique and will be discussed later in connection with a few
other waxes having the same characteristic.
Another wax marked No. 2, which was made on Novembe1·
5, 1929, carried three impressions, although they are now prac-
tically undecipherable.
According to Mr. Dudley's minutes of that seance-given by
him to the writer v;rho had been present-one was supposed to
be a "\iValter" print, but there was doubt as to the others,
although there were intimations that one might be that of Lady
Lodge. The other, which bore a twin loop and was unknown
at that time, has since been identified by "\iValter," but has
not been checked, as we have not been able to obtain ink prints
of the thumb it is supposed to represent.
On November 15, 1929, two impressions ·were obtained 011
a single piece of ·wax (Fig. 59), one a typical "ViT
alter" righ I.
thumb negative impression agreeing with our standard, and
with it a small impression which may be that of a child.
·rn reviewing the details of these duplicate prints, one point
stands out very clearly, and that is that most of those .which
are "vValter" prints and have sufficient detail to allow of their
classification, and which Mr. Dudley has classified as negatives,
would, if used as dies, produce our standard positive right
thumb with a staple at its core.
FIGURE 58.
1'llis cut shows a' small section, somewhat enlarged, of a wax containing two impressions,
one superimposed upon the other, which was c1ated 7-15-'27. \Vl1ile much c1istortec1, one
impression is clearly a positive with a staple at the C
Ol'e.
FIGURE 59.
A normal negative "Walter" impression, which in the actual wax has· a single
ridge at the center; and a small, unidentified impression beside it. This was pro-
duced for Mr. Walton at a seance at which he was present.
J
XI
PmNTS OBTAINED AT Sor,us SITTINGS
Usually, at the seances at which thumb impressions have
been obtained, several persons have been present, but the fol-
lowing impressions were obtained at solus sittings. That is,
only one person beside the medium was in the room, and that
person had complete control of medium and equipment. This
group of waxes is small, and we are going to mention only four
of the typical cases, since they are the only ones of which we
hold the waxes.
On August 26, 1927, Mr. J. W. Fife had a solus sitting at
which two impressions were obtained. The details of this
seance are given quite fully in the manuscript Proceedings pre-
pared by Mr. Dudley, he having remained outside the seance
room door and recorded the details at Mr. Fife's dictation.
This record states that these two impressions are normal prints
of the "vValter" thumb, but does not specify whether positive
or negative.
One of these waxes, marked No. 58, which we hold, has a
raised joint line. The delta and general position of the core
indicate that it is a normal negative. While the top of the core
is not clear, there are indications that the center is a ridge. If
such be the case, it agrees with our standard.
Wax No. 59, the second of this date, is presumably a normal
positive, but as this wax appears to have been subsequently
changed in some way, we shall discuss it later.
Two others were made on August 7, 1928, when only Dr.
Mark \V. Richardson was present. Although these waxes are
much bent, the impressed area is quite fiat, and both imprints,
although they are only partial, show the core and surrounding
area very distinctly. They are both unquestionably "vValter"
negative right thumb impressions agreeing with our standard.
\Ve are illustrating one of these in Figure 60.
59
60 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
On March 11, 1931, Mr. William H. Button, President of
the American Society for Psychical Research, obtained a
"Walter" thumb print when only he and the medium were
present in the closed, locked seance room, the hands and feet of
the medium being controlled by surgeon's tape.31
On July 13, 1931, the writer, at a solus sitting,32
obtained
an impression of Sir Oliver Lodge's right thumb (Fig. 61)
(3a). ·This was produced under controlled conditions and
has been shown by Mr. Bell of Scotland Yard 33
to check with
the ink-print of Sir Oliver's right thumb.
We would suggest here that anyone interested in solus
sittings read the report of one held on August 10, 1928, by
Dr. R. J. Tillyard of New Zealand.34
The results obtained at these solus sittings show clearly that
the accomplishment of these phenomena is not dependent upon
the presence of any particular person other than the medium.
81 Appendix VI: Solus sitting of W. H. Button.
82 Journal .A.S.P.R., Mar. 1932, Solus sitting of B. K. Thorogood.
8s Journal A.S.P.R., Mar. 1932, p. 118, Bell's report on Lodge Prints.
84 Appendix V: Dr. Tillyard 's solus of August 10, 1928.
FIGURE 60.
A wax containing a "Walter" normal negative impression which has a single
ridge which would produce a positive having a staple at the core. This was obtained
by Dr. Richardson at a solus sitting. In the reproduction the ridge might easily be
mistaken for a staple.
3
MFOICAL AND
RGICAL SUPPLIES
I I I
:r_l!li r!!
l"IGUHE 61.
Some of the Sir Oli1·er Lodge righ t thumb impressions. The wax marked 3a was obtai ned at a solus sitting by the writer.
r
XII
IMPRESSIONS OTHER THAN ''WALTER's''
From time to time, :finger impressions in wax have been
obtained, under the mediumship of "Margery," of persons other
than "Walter. "
On November 5, 1929, we obtained three impressions on a
single piece of wax, as already mentioned,- one which was
"Walter's", a second supposedly of Lady Lodge (although
this has never been verified), and a third, the pattern of which
is a twin loop. For a time, "Walter" refused to tell to whom
it belonged, and he made several similar prints (Fig. 62) which
he said belonged to the same person. We have not checked this,
however, since we have not been able to get the person's ink
print.
We obtained several prints of the thumb of C. S. Hill 35
(deceased), and we show in Figure 63 the ante-mortem ink-print
of 1926 and post-mortem seance print of July 24, 1931.
In July, 1931, as we have already mentioned, we obtained
numerous. Lodge prints of both the right and left thumbs,
a pair of which we show in Figure 64.
We also have two prints, one of which was produced on
.July 6, 1927 and the other on July 12, 1927, which "Walter"
said were of :fingers of Mark Richardson, deceased son of Dr.
Richardson. One of these is shown in Figure 65. It has not
been possible to check these, as no one has been able to locate
any :fingerprints known to have been made by this young man
when alive.
Of the impressions mentioned under this heading, we have
thus far been able to verify only those of Sir Oliver Lodge
85 Journal A.S.P.R., Feb. 1932.
61
62 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
and the late C. S. Hill; but we have mentioned and illustrated
the others to indicate the diversity of design it is possible to
obtain in this supernormal manner. This, of itself, is very
important, even though the patterns should never be sho·wn to
agree with the actual prints of the fingers they are supposed to
represent.
FIGURE 62.
A small part of an impression which was unidentified for se\·eral years and upon
which no report has yet been made. This sliows a twin loop.
Ante-Mortem (1926) Post-Mortem (1931)
FIGURE 63.
Comparison of the normal (ante-mortem 1926) thumb-print of C. S. Hill with a post-mortem
print obtained July 24, 1931.
FIGURE 64.
Enlargement of one of the pairs of Sir Oliver Lodge's right and left thumb prints, showing
a whorl and an ulnar loop, respectively.
FIGURE 65.
An impression obtained July 12, 1927, claimed by "Walter" to be that of Mark
Richardson (deceased). This has never been checked, as no authentic finger-prints
have ever been f ound with which to compare it.
XIII
IMPRESSIONS MADE UNDER UNusuAL CoNDITIONs
In addition to the impressions obtained at 10 Lime Street,
several have been produced under "Margery's" mediumship
at other places, such as Newton, Massachusetts; 353 Common-
wealth Avenue, Boston; Niagara Falls, New York (through
another medium, but within an hour or so of the time one was
produced in Boston with ''Margery"); and at the Laboratory
of the British Society for Psychical Research in London.
Again, we are describing only those waxes which are now
in our possession.
One, dated July 16, 1927, No. 39, is very much worn. This
print was obtained at a seance held at Dr. Richardson's house in
Newton. It is undoubtedly a normal negative. The joint line
and delta quite clearly indicate this, but the core appears not
to agree with our standard. This peculiarity of the core will
be considered later. This particular wax has Mr. Bird 's initials,
''J. M. B.," and the date scratched on the back.
Another (Fig. 66) is marked "89 E 5" on the back, where
there appears also a roman I. In the back of this wax are
imbedded three gold seals bearing the monogram '' TFP,'' which
were imbedded personally by Theron F. Pierce (now deceased)
and sealed with the end of his gold penciJ.35"' The back of thiH
wax may be seen in the group photograph (Fig. 44), numbered
62. The face has scratched on it "N.F. 4--29-29." This wax, and
the impression it bears, will be discussed in connection with
another group.
Finally, we would mention an impression obtained on a
perfectly clean, smooth piece of plasticene in the closed, locked
box which was shown in Figure 3, under perfect conditions of
control, with only Adams, Fife, the official stenographer, and
asaJournal A.S.P.R., Dec. 1929, p. 648.
63
64 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the writer present. The hasp on this box could not be removed
and replaced in an hour's time and the box could not have been
opened by this or any other means without detection, although
one critic, who has never seen the box, claims that it could
have been opened in a few minutes by removing the screws
from the hasp. This impression was shown in Fig'Ure 2, and
while it is not particularly good, there are strong indications
that it is a Sir Oliver Lodge right thumb.
From the foregoing, it is apparent that the production of
these impressions is independent of location and the presence
of any one person other than the medium; and even she was
not at Niagara Falls-nor was she within the closed, locked box!
}~[GUilE 66.
Prints of April 29, 1929, made within about one hour of each other,
one tlJrougn ''Margery'' at Lime Street, and the other through a
medium at Niagara Falls.
The one marked N. F. is claimed to have been made at Niagara
Falls and is presumably a negative impression. The core appears to
be a continuous loopecl ridge.
The other was made at Lime Street, and appears to be a negative
with a ridge at the core.
'While we have no good ink prints of the medium at Niagara Falls,
those we have secm·ed do not seem to resemble the impression shown
above.
XIV
SPECIAL CASES
Among the impressions which in the past have been classi-
fied as of the "\iValter" right thumb, there are five well made
prints which do not agree with our ''Walter" standard hands
in so far as the core is concerned. How many more such ·waxes
may exist ·we do not know, but among those which ·we have not
had for examination there may be others.
V.,Te have no way of testing or 'judging the authenticity of
these waxes, but the r ecords of the seances in which they were
produced have been published in the Journal aG and are suffi-
ciently complete and convincing to lead us to accept these im-
pressions as having been produced supernormally. The latest
of the waxes -vvas obtained by Mr. Fife on November 26, 1931
and was identified by him at the time as a "vValter" print.
Because it reproduced ·well in a photograph, the writer used it
in his Lodge article37
to illustrate a "\iValter" print.
These five waxes may be divided into two groups, one of
·which is comprised of two partial normal negatives of the
"\iValter" right thumb-the print obtained by Mr. Fife and
a print obtained on September 4, 1926.
~rhe other group consists of three partial normal positive
reliefs-one having been made on September 4, 1926, one on
February 3, 1927, and one on July 13, 1927.
All of these waxes were well executed, and in most of them
the joint line shows correctly and the details are quite sharp.
Because of much handling they are now quite worn in parts,
and three of them have been cracked and mended. The main
difference between these prints anQ. our standard is the indica-
tion of a rod at the core instead of a staple.
We have already shown that by far the greater number of
36 P sychic Research, April, 1928, pp. 197, 209, and August, 1928, p. 461.
37 Journal A.S.P.R., Mar. 1932, p. 123.
65
66 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the waxes which we have examined clearly show a staple at the
core of the "vValter" right thumb.
The question which arises, therefore, is : How can there be
at least five well executed waxes which apparently agree with
the "Walter" right thumb in all respects except as to the core'?
From the contemporaneous records, it appears that ''Walter"
stated when these were made that they were his impressions.
Let us see, therefore, if there is any way by which we can
reconcile these differences and bring these prints into line with
all the others.
To begin with, a classi:fic.ation of all the other "vValter "
prints of the right thumb shows that there is really but one
general design, which, however, has four different phases.
These may be indicated diagrammatically as in Figure 67, where
A is a normal positive relief, and B a normal negative intaglio.
A carries pore structure on its ridges, as shown in the diagram,
while in B the pore structure appears as nodules in the fur-
rows. In general, these two phases predominate among the
"Walter" waxes and occur in about 95 per cent of the printst
and althoug·h the slant of the lines of one is mirrored with
respect to the slant of the lines of the other, they are not true
mirror prints.
If we deliberately remove a small section of the top of the
staple shown in A we shall obtain the result indicated at C.
This gives us what we call a partial positive relief. It is iden-
tical with A, except for this slight but important change, which
results in a rod at the core bearing pores as indicated. If this
in turn is pressed into wax, we shall obtain the partial negative
intaglio shown at D, in which the pores will be found as nodules
in the furrows.
These last two phases have occurred in perhaps 5 per cent
of all the prints that have been made and occur in this group
of special cases. They are mirrored with relation to each other
just as are A and B, but of course are not true mirror prints.
Another important point is, that upon examination, A and
D, one a positive and one a negative, will be seen to be mirrored
N~
T'
~N:-
t
FIGURE 67.
Four typical phases of the "Walter" prints, A and B being a normal relief and
intaglio respectively (the two most common); while C and D are partial relief and
intaglio and occur in a very small number of cases, possibly made intentionally to
show minoring of pattem shape or unintentionally because of lack of energy.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 67
in a similar way with relation to each other; and in a hasty
inspection the cores might be thought to be actually mirrored
because they both appear to be staples; but this of course is
not possible, because the staple shown at A is genuine and has
pores on it, while that of D is not. What would seem to be
.a staple at D is nothing but a ridge formed by the furrows of
the impressing agent. The same thing may be said of C and B,
for they also seem to be mirrored and both appear to have rods
at the core. A casual examination might easily mistake a ridge
caused by a furrow for a real staple, especially if the pore
structure were not well marked.
If the above is true, it may well be asked why "Walter"
should sometimes make a break in the staple and so form a rod,
and at other times not do so.
We have already seen this in the case of a wax discussed
on page 45, that of July 14, 1927, where one side of the staple
had been deliberately left out or excised by the forming agent,
so it would evidently be perfectly possible to excise a piece
of this staple to a lesser extent than was done on the wax just
mentioned. But what object could there be for doing this~
It might be an attempt on "\i\Talter's" part to produce a more
completely mirrored impression, as we have already explained,
for he has on numerous occasions stated that he should never
have attempted to make mirror prints, since it is this that has
caused most of the confusion in the waxes and some on his
part as well.
If the above facts are true, the question quite naturally arises
as to why we adopt a print having a staple at the ·core as our
standard, rather than one having a rod.
There are three reasons for so doing.
First, the great ·majority of the waxes that are normal
positive reliefs have a staple at the core.
Second, the great majority of normal negatives have a ridge
at the core.
And third, all the complete right hands in relief, which we
ourselves have obtained and which "Walter" has asserted are
of'his hand, show a staple at the core of the thumb.
68 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Moreover, while the evidence may point to a deliberate in-
tention on the part of the ''\i\Talter" intelligence to depress
or excise the top of this staple in an attempt to make what
he calls a mirror print, we feel that there may be still another
cause, one which is at times beyond his control. But before
going into this subject, we want to take up the case of a few
odd prints which we have.
XV
MIXED PRINTS
This group of prints is comprised of those that have a posi-
tive impression at the ball of the thumb combined with a nega-
tive joint line, or vice versa. There are probably not many
prints in this 'Category. We ourselves have only two well
impressed waxes that come under this heading. Both were made
on July 22, 1927, at a seance at which :five thumb prints were
obtained.
According to the records, the handling and marking of aU
these waxes was done by Mr. Fife. By marking, we presume
is meant marking for identification purposes, as the lettering·
of the dates was done by Mr. Dudley.
The :first one of these prints that was obtained is numbered
45 C 6 on the back and is shown in Figure 68. The wax is some-
what distorted and there is some indication of a cloth mark
on the upper right-hand edge, as mentioned in the J ournal.38
However, the surface which carries the thumb impression
is quite level and the print, which covers so much area that it
looks almost like a rolled print, is fairly sharp at the core and
around the delta. It is very clearly a normal negative with
a ridge at the core, which if used a~ a die would produce a
"Walter" normal positive right thumb relief having a staple
at the core.
Below the lower part of the ball of the thumb is a somewhat
folded area, which contains a few skin markings, and in this
fold may be clearly seen a clepressecl joint line with its bifurca-
tion opening to the right, showing very definitely that the joint
line is a normal positive. This in itself, of course, is another
point in favor of the theory of supernormal production, for
while a normal thumb would give us the negative ball impres-
ss Psychic Research, August, 1928, p. 456.
69
70 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
sions the joint line also would be negative, whereas the joint
line in this impression is positive.
The second wax, numbered 48 C 9, is of about the same length
as the other, but considerably narrower. The impression of the
ball of the thumb is not quite so well executed nor so complete
as in the other wax. This lack of sharpness of the ridges may
be due to wear, as the print appears to have been handled
considerably.
The core of this print is very definite and shows clearly a
staple, and that, with other characteristics, shows that it is a
normal positive and as such agrees with our standard. The
delta does not show in this wax.
The lower part of the wax, as may be seen in Figure 69,
is not folded the way the first one is, and the skin markings are
more or less continuous throughout the area of the joint line,
which in this case is raised, with the bifurcation opening to
the left, showing definitely that this part of the print is a normal
negative.
Here are two prints-the first, a negative impression of
the right thumb but with a positive joint line; and the second,
a positive impression of the same thumb with a negative joint
line.
It is interesting to note on these two waxes that there is no
indication in the negative print of any scar at the right of the
core, nor its reverse on the positive print.
In addition to these, we have four small waxes, three of
them with no further mark of identification than the numbers
1, 2, 3, respectively, although one bears a small F on the back;
and a fourth marked N+ and, on the back, March 21, but
with no year. The cores of these four· waxes seem in general to
agree with our standard positive, although there are a few
places in the furrows which appear to carry minute nodules
like the pore structure of a negative. In addition to this pecu··
liarity, we find that the joint lines of all four open as in a posi-
tive, that is, to the right, although they are raised as in a nega-
tive. In other words, the joint lines in these waxes seem to be
mirror prints of normal negative joint lines.
FIGURE 68.
A very unusual normal negative impression, having a normal posi-
tive joint line as indicated at J_ The X indicates an area about which
this change may have been produced by rotation. This is an old cut,
and the X ancl J were, we believe, placed by Mr. Dudley in calling
attention to this peculiarity.
FIGURE •
6•
9.
A normal positive imp1·ession, showing clearly a staple at the core, combined with
a normal negative joint line.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 71
This same peculiarity seems to exist in a print of April
13, 1932 (Fig. 14), previously spoken of, which "Walter" stated
was a mirro·r print of his right thumb, but which we feel is a
normal negative, although it has a very faint indication of a
joint line depressed like a positive, which opens to the left
as it would in a negative. This particular print is so damaged
by bubbles which formed in the wax because it was too hot
that the exact tip of the core and other important features.
can not be determined. We believe, however, as we said above,
that it is more like a negative than a mirror of the positive.
'This brings up the subject of the method of production of
these mirror prints, which, at one time or another, have been
so strongly stressed.
We are of the opinion that the prints which have been labelled
mirror prints are actually not such at all, although Mr. Dudley
in the Journal 30
says that "Walter" deliberately made a
mirror print which he (Mr. Dudley) could conscientiously
.list as a mirror-positive. This print, No. 41, made on August
30, 1927, we have never seen, and the photograph of it which
we have and the illustration in Psychic Research, August 1928,.
p. 467, are not sufficiently clear to allow of its determination. vVe
have already discussed the wax made on July 13, 1927, with
which Mr. Dudley compared it in the Journal.
\lYe do not say that "Walter" can not produce complete
mirror-prints, but there do not seem to be any among the waxes
we have examined.
Mr. Dudley, in the Journal, writes as follows: "He ('Wal-
ter') insisted, at a later date, that he never intended to make
perfect mirror-prints at first, for, as he said: 'There are people
who would say that it can be done by trickery. You don't want
a perfect mirror-print. A partial mirror-print is harder to.
explain. ' ' ' 39
Now, to return to the statement we made to the effect that
there might be another reason for the occasional appearance
of partial reversal in some of these prints.
We would not suggest this possibility were it not for
so Psychic Research, August, 1928, p. 468.
72 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the fact that there are many variants among these impressions
which it seems to explain, and although it is obviously meta-
physical in its import and cannot be proved, we· think it is
worthy of consideration as an analogy at any rate, despite the
danger of using physical analogies in this type of investigation.
\Ve have often questioned "\Valter" with regard to these
variations in the waxes and his statements, interpreted in the
light of facts we have observed, seem to indicate that this
Intelligence, whether it be the medium's or "vValter's," is act-
ing, at least some of the time, in a space which is different from
our own so-called three dimensional space or manifold. This
may be on the order of the four-dimensio11al Space-time of
Minkowski.40
"Walter" persists in calling it a fourth cli1"ection
rather than dimension.
The writer feels that there is much in connection with cer-
tain of these phenomena that comes very close to being evidence
in support of our modern ideas concerning the Equivalence of
Mass (Inertia) and Energy, and the variation of Mass with
Velocity.
In the Journal for October, 1928, on page 562, an attempt
is made by Bird and Dudley to explain the production of mirror
prints by the use of a fourth dimension, but we doubt very mucb
if mirror-images could be produced in the way suggested, even
if a fourth dimension were available for the purpose.
This idea of higher space as a concomitant of psychic phe-
nomena is not new, and has been discussed by numerous writers
for many years.41
Our tactl-1al, visual and photographic experiments have
shown that there is a definite ''exteriorization'' from the~
medium's body of a unique substance, a quasi-material, whicb
is sufficiently delicate of structure to carry a design, yet rigid
enough to impress a plastic. In our experiments this substance
has sometimes taken the shape of single or multiple terminals,
and at other times of simulacrae of partially formed or well
formed hands (Fig. 70) . Investigators along this line have
10 Minkowski 's Das Relatwiti:itsp?·imzip.
41 Theo1·y of the Mechanism of S~trvwal, by W. Whateley Smith, London, 1920.
Transcendental Physics, Zollner, London, 1882.
FIGURE 70.
A term inal suppor ting a small stool. Notice that this appa rently is bifu rcated at the end to hold the rung. The
whitish material seems to end near t he medium's head, but surrounding it and continuing over to the head may ·be seen
what n,ppears as a shadow, although there is every indication that this is part of the te1·minal but i.n a state where it
absorbs the light of the flash rather than reflects it. The writer was practically back of the curtain at the time this
was taken and "Margery" was i.n a deep trance.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 73
established beyond possibility of doubt the existence of such a
substance, and we refer the reader who may be interested in the
subject to the works of Crookes, Geley, Osty, .Schrenck-Notzing,
Richet, and others.
Denial that any such substance exists is usually made on
a priori grounds and by persons who have had little or no
experimental or observational experience with the phenomenon.
Denials of that kind of course have no scientific value whatever.
Professor D.P. Fraser-Harris, M.D., D.Sc., F .R.S.E., in The
Hibbert Journal, Vol. XXXI, page 24 (Oct., 1932), writes :
"No one, however exalted his position in the world of science,
is entitled to pronounce either for or against the genuineness
of these phenomena who has not himself witnessed them. He
must testify only of that which he has seen and heard."
This substance, termed ectoplasm or teleplasm, seems to
extrude from almost any part of the body of the medium, but
principally from the natural orifices. It may possibly be a form
of radiation which in some manner has its rate of vibration
reduced, becoming analogous to a gas or vapor, in which form
it is sometimes luminous, gradually condensing or solidifying
into an elastic and tenacious material, sometimes visible, some-
times invisible. At times it may exert considerable force and
move at high speed, and it is, without question, controlled,
directed or manipulated by Intelligence.
Because it is controlled by Intelligence, it seems to take the
form, sometimes crudely, sometimes with considerable perfec-
tion, which the controlling Intelligence directs, that is to say,
it is ideoplastic.42
We are using this word in the sense in which
Geley uses it, to mean the modelling of living rn.atter by an
idea. He says: "The creative and directing idea normally
works in a given sense, that of the evolution of the species, and
conforms to the manner of that evolution. Supernormal
physiology, on the other hand, is the product of ideoplastic
activity directed in a divergent manner by an abnormal effort of
the directing idea.''
Again Geley says: ''Supernormal physiology presents
42 Gustave Geley, From Vncon.~cimts to the Conscious, p. 63.
74 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
exactly the same mystery as normal physiology; the normal
formation of a living being is neither more nor less marvelous,.
neither more nor less comprehensible than the abnormal forma-
tions which mediumship presents to our view. It is, we repeat,.
the same ideoplastic miracle ·which forms the hands, the face,.
the tissues and the whole organism of the child at the expense
of the maternal body; or the hands, face and organism of a
materialization at the expense of the body of the medium.''
If we assume that this Intelligence can transmit through this
teleplasmic material, which it appears to control, the design or
pattern of a thumb or :finger, it seems as if it might make any
:finger print it desired, and in so doing the resulting impression
would be more likely to take the form of a normal positive
relief than any other for the simple reason that that is the
normal form of the :finger. If this Intelligence is that of an
independent entity claiming to make its own print, it seems
likely that it knows its own design. On the other hand, if this
Intelligence lies in some subjective faculty of the medium which
takes on the characteristics of a deceased brother whom she
kne·w, it would naturally choose for reproduction the design of
his :fingers with which it would seem subjectively to be familiar.
That this Intelligence can supernormally reproduce any
desired :finger pattern seems evidenced by the results of our
own experiments in which we have obtained :finger prints of
both living and deceased persons which have been found to agree
with their actual :finger prints. It seems reasonable, therefore,
to suppose that the prints known as the "\iValter" prints re-
produce his papillary ridge design as accurately as the prints
of Sir Olivet Lodge and the late C. S. Hill reproduce theirs.
The medium has had personal acquaintance with both of the
latter, yet none of their supernormally produced prints shows
any unusual marks or unnatural characteristics. It is chiefly
in connection with the "Walter" prints that we have found
variations of pattern or mixed characteristics. · This also
appears logical, as it would be more likely for this Intelligence
to experiment with its 0\¥11 prints than with those of someone
else.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
vVe have no evidence that " \~Talter" is able to create a design
or pattern. Indications are that he can reproduce only those·
patterns which already exist or have existed.
In this connection there is another point to which we would
call attention, namely that this teleplasm, which comes :from
and is apparently part of the medium, being re-absor.bed into
her body after supernormal use, must be vitally affected by her
ego, and that unless a stronger idea than her o..wn prevails,
certain of her characteristics may be evident in the resulting
phenomena. "vValter" has called our attention to this fact,
and has frequently claimed that he could not accomplish what
he wished until he had put the medium into a deeper trance.
He apparently cannot demonstrate as freely as he wishes until
her normal faculties are entirely in abeyance. The function of
the medium appears literally to be to provide the medium
through which the "\¥alter" intelligence may physically mani-
fest itself. On the other hand, some phenomena apparently
supernormal, but irrelevant to this discussion, take place with-
out the presence of the medium.
The hypothesis which we are about to present is applicable
to every phase of the "vValter" print which we have obtainedt
and gives credence to many statements made by the "\¥alter"
voice to which little attention has hitherto been given. It seems
to us to be much more reasonable than does the suggestion that
the terminal carrying the design is taken into the fourth
dimension, reversed, and brought back, as suggested in the
Journal by Bird and Dudley.
"\¥alter" has attempted, at one time or another, to tell us
how this phenomenon takes place. He has stated that his space
is differ ent from our three-dimensional space, and that in order
to reproduce the design of his thumb in the teleplasmic terminal
so that its orientation will be the same as it was when he was
alive, he is obliged to tu,nq, his consciousness so that a complete
r eversal takes place and the materialized member becomes in
our space a mirror image of what it is in his space. His success
in accomplishing complete r eversal apparently depends upon
the energy available. Bearing this in mind, let us see how lack
of sufficient energy may affect these impressions.
76 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
It does not seem reasonable to imagine that this teleplasm,
when formed for making prints, for instance, is other than a
physical material, although it may be possible that in some form
not apparent to our senses it also pervades higher space and
acts as the connecting vehicle which enables this Intelligence
to manifest itself physically; but in its physical form it seems
to be tenacious in its structure and its shape could not be
·changed without the application of considerable effort on the
part of the controlling force (idea).
To illustrate this, let us imagine the :finger of a glove of very
thin material, the tip of which bears a staple at the core, as in
A of Figure 71, and turn it inside out by turning it back on itself,
as in B. In order to visualize more clearly a complete and de-
tailed mirrored reversal of . this we must realize that the
reversal of every minute detail must be effected-that is, all
furrows must be pushed completely out so that in reverse they
will continue to appear as furrows and all ridges must be pushed
·completely in so that in reverse they will retain the appearance
of ridges.
Now, if the material in this glove :finger should be tenacious,
it is conceivable that some bit of this detail might fail of com-
plete reversal, with the result that what, for instance, was a
staple in the original might in the reversed form appear to be
a rod, since due to its stiffness the furrow in the staple might
not have reversed when the glove was turned. This resulting
rod, however, would not be a true ridge, since it is really only
the back of the furrow which appears as a rod.
At 0 we show the glove turned inside out, and at D it has
been rotated in order to enable us to compare it with A, with
which we started. If there had been ·a complete reversal of
ridges, furrows, and minutiae this tip would then look like E,
which is a mirror-positive of A.
We must not lose sight of the fact that our analogy applies
only to a surface reversal, whereas in the actual case, whatever
the process may be, it probably involves a three-dimensional or
volume change. Bearing this in mind let us now analyze some
of the different "Walter" thumb prints.
Positive
A
Turning inside out
(frJrrow becomes a rtdqe) Inside out
B C
FIGURE 71.
Negative
D
Mirror
E
A diagram which shows mechanically how when a glove tip A (positive) is
turned pa1'tially inside-out it becomes a negative, as at D; aucl if completely turned
in all details, a mirror positive E.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 77
In the first place the higher space, or fourth direction, as
"Walter" terms it, upon the existence of which this theory
depends, probably includes both spatial and temporal dimen-
Rions. Since this higher space undoubtedly embraces our
space, there seems to be no reason why "Walter" should be
obliged to reverse his consciousness in order to make finger
prints, except for the very important reason that if he were
to materialize his thumb, for instance, without such reversing
its design would naturally appear as it does in his space, so
that to us it would be a mirror-image of what it was when he
was alive. Therefore, impressions made from it would also, to
us, be mirrored and unless we knew of this mirroring would be
useless for purposes of identification, although they might be
of value in showing supernormality. Since in most cases it
seems to have been the intention of this Intelligence to make
impressions which might be identifiable, it is reasonable to
assume that for this purpose the reversing process has been
consistently adhered to whenever energy allowed.
The following schematic diagram (Fig. 72) illustrates itR
possible mechanism. In it, B represents the materialized
"Walter" thumb which, according to "Walter," is a reversal
or mirrored form of his thumb as it is in his space, which we
represent by A. The outer surface of each of these thumbs,
A and B, bears the pattern in relief of the "Walter" thumb, but
that of A is the mirror positive, while that of B is the normal
positive. The inner surface of each bears an intaglio pattern,
that of A being the mirror negative and that of B the normal
negative.
If we press a piece of wax into the intaglio surface of A
we shall obtain on the wax a mirror-positive relief of the
"Walter" pattern, or a pattern which is exactly like that on
the outer surface of A.
If, on the other hand, we press the out~r surface of A into
the wax we shall obtain on the wax an intaglio, or what we term
a mirror-negative.
The two patterns produced by this method are indicated
by a and a', but, as we have already said, we have not seen any
complete mirror prints, either positive or negative.
78 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISI-:IIP
If there is sufficient energy to keep this ideoplastic thumb
rigidly in shape, the resulting impression in the wax, whether
positive or negative, should be clear; while if energy should be
insufficient or lacking, the surface design would become more
or less flexed and the impression in the wax correspondingly
weak, or in places irregular or even obliterated. "vValter"
has said that at times it is difficult for him to hold the pattern
and, as a result, we sometimes get prints in which positive
and negative characteristics are mixed; and very often we obtain
only partial or incomplete prints.
vVe have mentioned elsewhere that ''vValter" claims that
in order to make a normal positive or normal negative impres-
sion he finds it necessary to turn his consciousness, in which
case his thumb would appear as at B. Using this materialized
thumb B, and pressing a piece of wax into its intaglio surface,
we should obtain on the surface of the wax a normal positive
impression, or a replica of the surface pattern of B. If, on
the other hand, we press the thumb into the wax, we should
obtain a normal negative. ·
The patterns produced on these two waxes are shown at
band b'..
Most of the "Walter" prints are included in these two types
b and b', and the completeness of their pattern would depend
upon the completeness of the reversal of A into B, which is
in turn dependent upon the energy available. Whatever demon-
stration occurs must require energy of some kind. No matter
what physical phenomenon we consider, the use of energy is
certainly involved, and this particular phenomenon which pro-
duces, even though supernormally, a physical change in the wax,
requires energy for its consummation.
Of this reversing· process there is evidence in some of the
waxes we have, which bear impressions which are partly normal
and partly mirrored or partially positive and partially negative.
These have been classed as mixed prints. They may be ex-
plained, on the basis on which this reversal takes place, as having
been thus produced either intentionally, because of lack of en-
ergy, or because of confusion in the forming Idea.
N+ /2
j ~~ised
Depressed
~
N+
p
Raise~
::::>--
N-
Q
FIGURE 72.
Mirror
::::>---
M+
Normal
M-
N-
~\
..
\
-
~·
--<::::.
N+
This diagram mustrates on a purely hypothetical basis how all the phases and types of the
"Walter" right t humb may occur, both in his space, as at A , and in our space, as at Band C.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 79
Let us no-vv consider the few waxes which bear normal
positive relief impressions having a negative joint line, or nor-
mal negative impressions having a positive joint line. Here
the process may seem more complicated, but it is nevertheless
perfectly reasonable.
Most of these waxes have an area between the joint line
and the ball of the thumb which appears to be folded and shows
very few skin marks. This condition was probably caused by
the rotation of the joint line about this area.
This is more difficult to visualize, since in addition to a
partial reversal of thumb A into thumb B, it involves a twisting
or rotation of the joint line through an angle of 180° relative
to the ball of the thumb, so that the joint line is reversed end
for end but comes to rest in the same plane as before. The
resulting ideoplastic form is shown at C, with a raised rather
than a depressed joint line.
A piece of wax pressed into this thumb C ·would give us a
print with a normal positive core and a normal negative joint
line. If, on the other hand, the thumb were pressed into the
wax, we should obtain a normal negative impression with a
normal positive joint line. The two patterns obtained in this
case are shown in c and c'.
A model of tliis rotation of the joint line relative to the ball
of the thumb might be made by taking a thin piece of rubber
and embossing it with the pattern of the ball of the thumb
and joint line, as shown at P. By holding it :firmly at the ends
and rotating the lower half completely over, as shown at Q,
we get the reversal of the joint line from a depressed normal
positive to a raised nG>rmal negative. This analogy is probably
inexact because in using it we are illustrating the twisting of
a plane surface, whereas in the ideoplastic thumb the process
is very likely the twisting of a closed envelope.
The waxes we have which show this type of change are some
that "Walter" produced with the expressed intention of prov-
ing the supernormality of the phenomenon.
Another type of print, mentioned under "Mixed Prints", is
that in which the thumb pattern appears as a normal positive
80 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
but has a mirrored negative joint line (Fig. 73). This can be
explained on the same basis as that of C in Figure 72, as involv-
ing a partial reversal and a rotation of the joint line, as shown
at d. There are no waxes which show the reverse of this form.
The few we have of this type are fairly well made, and in some
the joint line is not quite complete and there is a small blank
area between the joint line and the ball of the thumb, but no
folded or twisted area as in the previous case.
Incomplete reversal may have been the means by which the
side of the staple in the wax of July 14, 1927, was excised, the
teleplasmic ridge not having been actually removed, but allowed
to flex relative to the other ridges, thereby leaving only traces
of it in the wax. It may also explain how because of lack
of energy, the tip of the staple in some of the "Walter" thumh
prints may have been excised, for had it been formed in the
teleplasmic material before-A was changed to B, and the con-
sciousness then reversed, the reversal of the ridges and furrows.
might have been only partial, due to the fact that the sides of
the staple at the core of the "Walter" thumb could be reversed
more easily than its upper end, thus in some cases leaving a
depression which would cause the core to appear as a rod. This.
we have already shown in Figure 67. And it may account for
the blob of wax, or plateau, such as may be observed at this.
point in some of the normal positive waxes, and which shows
as a depressed area or sink in some of the normal negatives,.
as well as for areas in the ridges, especially of normal positives,
where there.appears to be a tendency toward discontinuity in
the ridge alignment.
The ability of this ideoplastic thumb to envelop the wax in.
making positives need not seriously strain the imagination, even
though the thumb appears continuous in its structure, for there-
is no reason why this teleplasmic material could not penetrate
the plastic since the interpenetration of matter by matter under
special conditions can be accomplished physically.
We do not wish to go into details of speculation concerning-
the possibility of the functioning of energy between three-dimen-
sional space and higher space from a psychic view-point, but.
)
FIGURE 73.
A positive "Walter" print, clearly showing a staple at the core, but with a
minor negative joint line, i.e., the joint line is raised as in a negative, although it
opens to the right as in a positive.
!
)
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 81
that we have some physical evidence pointing in this direction
is shown by experiments which have been carried on at Lime
Street in connection with the transmission of solid material
through solid material, which tend to substantiate this state-
ment. The writer has seen a sufficient number of such experi-
ments to satisfy him as to their authenticity. They are similar
to some of ZOllner 's/3 whose ideas on this subject have been
ridiculed and criticised most severly.44 Future experiments
and the rapidly developing technique of psychic research,
may finally elevate Zollner to. a great place as a pioneer in the
realms of scientific truth and leave his critics in the category
of obstructionists who lacked the capacity or the courage to
recognize the work of a truly great man.
\Ve are showing as an example of teleplasmic development
a well-formed arm and hand enlarged from a section of a flash-
light photograph taken at Lime Street on November 13, 1931
(Fig. 74). In fact, it is so well formed that some critics claim
that it belongs to a living person. Notice that the photograph
shows a left arm and hand, yet "Walter" insists, and has said
from the first, that it is his right arm and hand. We would say
that when this photograph was taken only "Margery," the
writer, and Mr. Adams were in the room. The complete photo-
graph (Fig. 75) shows the medium's feet and hands also, and
it can plainly be seen that they are in no way connected with the
materialized arm and hand.
Let us here briefly explain the apparent paradox of a right
hand appearing as a left hand. 1Jntil recently this has been
confusing to us as well as to critics of these phenomena, but
if we consider the analysis we have just made of the procedure
which is responsible for the various wax impressions, we may
use the same hypothesis here.
This hand, of which we have just spoken, was materialized
under the most rigid conditions of control. The cameras which
were used belong to the writer, their optical glass lenses are
48 TranscenilootaZ Physics, ZOllner, London, 1882.
44 The PhysicaZ Phenomena of Spiritualism, by Carrington, p. 19.
Easy Lessons in Einstein, Slosson, p. 58.
82 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of the best quality, the photographic plates were new and in
perfect condition, and we certify as to the authenticity of the
negative.
The picture was taken by the illumination of photo-flash
lamps in about one :fiftieth of a second, and shows unmistakably
a left arm and hand of large proportion holding aloft a small
stool. This materialized arm and hand was observed by Adams
and the writer in good red light for a space of several seconds
before the plates were exposed, the writer being within two
feet of it. vVe naturally designated it a left arm and hand;
"Walter" however insisted that it 1vas his right arm and
hand, but said that since what we saw was really a mirror image
of it, it appeared to us like a left.
This same anomaly ·would of course be. apparent in the
"vValter" prints if for any reason the reversing process were
not carried out, as we have already shown, and may account for
some of the different phases of the "\¥alter" thumb pattern
which have occurred. It seems hardly reasonable to suppose
that "vValter" should not know ·which hand was his right~ and
presumably it would be the same one that had always been his
right.
If "vValter" were to materialize his right hand, without
reversing his consciousness, we, observing it without any
further means of orientation, would see it as a left hand since
the mirrored image of a right hand appears to us like a left
hand, and if we photographed it it would appear in the photo-
graph as a left hand.
A diagram may make this a little clearer, although the
mirror analogy should not be considered as in any way explain-
jng the actual process. V·.,Te have already said that, according
io "vValter", his right hand, as it is in his space, is a mirror
jmage of what it was when he was in our space. Therefore in
the diagram (Fig. 76) we are representing his right hand as it
was when he was alive by B-while A represents it as it is now
in his space. To us who have no other means of orientation,
A would look like a left hand, so if "\i\Talter" materializes this
band A ·without reversing it we see it as a left hand, and jf he
"
FIGURE 74.
A materialized arm supporting a small table. This, to all appearances, is a left arm, but "Walter" claims it is his
right, as explained in the text. The complete picture is shown in Figure 75.
FIGURE 75.
This shows the writer holcling the medium's hands. Her feet are on the floor and are
obviously not being used to produce this left a!·m. It may natmally be claimed t hat someone
was behind the curtain, but only Adams, who was at the cameTa, ''Margery '' and the Wl"itel"
were present in the locked and searched seance room. This was taken Nov. 13, 1931.
FIGURE 7<
6.
IPalm
Mirror Positive
From A
~
Palm
Normal Positive
From- B
Diagram illustrating possible manner of production of normal positive and mirror
positive image and type of impression the inside surface of each would produce.
MARGERY 1\IIEDIUl\IISHIP 83
presses wax into the inner surface, the pattern produced would
be a mirror-positive relief. If we accept his statement that the
impressions which we are using as our standards represent his
hands as they were when he was alive they must have been made
after the reversing process was carried out, by the hand as shown
at B. If wax is pressed into the inner surface of B the resulting
impression would be a normal positive relief like our standard
hand. These impressions would, of course, be subject to such
variations as would result, not only from the physical imperfec-
tions of the wax, but in proportion to the extent of the reversal,
which is sometimes incomplete as in one wax we have already
discussed (Fig. 13), where the tips of the four :fingers (but not
of the thumb) are normal negative impressions.
"Walter" said in making this hand, which is a normal posi-
tive relief except as to the four :fingertips, that the teleplasm
''got away from him.'' In other words, the wax was pressed
into the intaglio surface of this ideoplastic. hand, but through
lack of energy the :fingertips were not completed. In order to-
correct this quickly, the outside surfaces of the ideoplastic
:fingers were pressed into the wax somewhat at an angle, thus
producing the negative patterns at the tips, which bear every
indication of having been added hastily.
·with regard to the materialized arms which we have seen and
photographed, they must have been, either arms of a living per-
son or persons or artificial substitutes for them-that is, fraudu-
lent; or they were teleplasmic arms-to which all the evidence
points-and as such were ideoplastic.
In the :first instance, it is perfectly obvious that if the left
hand we saw was the left hand of a living person it could not
have borne the papillary ridge design of a right hand.
If it was artificial, of course almost any kind of design might,
theoretically, have been given it.
But under the conditions of our experimentation, it could
not have been either the arm of a living person or an artificial
arm.
If, on the other hand, it is, as we have claimed, a teleplasmic
arm, it should be able almost instantly to take the design of
the controlling idea.
84 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
There appears to be no reason why this idea might not
form any combination of patterns on the fingers if the designs
are available. In fact, "Walter" has said that sometime he
would make for the writer a sort of composite hand ·with
each finger bearing a papillary ridge design of a different
person. He said he could produce on it the design of the
writer's thumb while the writer was present at a seance and
without his being conscious of it. We asked if he could also pro-
duce the medium's finger pattern, and he replied that he could.
In view of this, the use of a left hand in the production of a
right thumb impression need not provoke any special comment.
Moreover, in this very fact lies further proof that the patterns
which "Walter" says are those of his ov;rn fingers are what he
claims them to be.
It seems unlikely, however, that our standard hands bear
a composite design, for if such were the case variations might
be expected, whereas they are always uniform in pattern, and
correspond not only with all recent waxes but with the older
ones and the plaster casts.
In the Journal 45
there are shown, on pages 568 and 570, a
series of views (Figs. 77, 78, 79 and 7·9·a) of a somewhat poorly
formed hand going through the process of taking a piece of
Kerr out of a hot water dish, making a thumb impression in
it, and handing the impression to someone. According to the
records of this seance, which were written by Mr. Dudley and
Mr. Bird, this took place on July 28, 1927, and they state that
the print obtained at the time the photograph was made, while
not very well-defined and showing no joint line, is nevertheless
that of a "Walter" thumb.
In the manuscript Proceedings, prepared by Mr. Dudley,
he has stated that this print is a normal negative, very little
distorted, and that there are indications of a fingernail scratch
on its surface. This latter mark does not seem to show in the
photograph illustrated on page 459 in the J oUTnal.
We happen to have this wax (Fig. 80), marked No. 49 C 10
on the back, and bearing the above date on the front, and while
4~ Psychic Research, October, 1928, p. 568.
FIGURE 77.
The "Walter" hand removing a piece of Kerr from the hot
water dish. The medium in deep trance.
FIGURE 78.
The "vValter" hand posed as in the act of making au
impression in the Kerr.
FIGURE 79.
The "Walter" hand passing this impressed piece of Kerr to
Dr. Richardson.
FIGURE 79A.
Dr. Richardson holding the "Walter" hand.
FIGURE 80.
The wax \Yhich was impressed with a "Walter" negative print on July 28, 1927,
when the photographs shown in Figures 77, 78 and 79 were made. This negative wax
has a single ridge at its core, cleal'!y indicating a staple in the normal 1
·elief. The
imperfection is claimed to ha.ve been made by "Walter's" nail, and seems to be more
pronounced in this photogmph than in the original photograph. Whether this has-
been changed, we can not say.
MARGERY l\1EDIUl\1SHIP 85
it is difficult to show the detail in a half-tone, we can state that
it is a "vValter" normal negative right thumb, and that under
magnification it shows clearly a raised ridge at the core. This,
if used to produce a positive, would give us a staple at this
point, and so agree ·with our normal positive right thumb.
\Vith regard to this particular materialized hand, Mr. Dudley
says, in describing the second photograph, which shows it im-
pressing the wax, that: ''One can distinguish five digits-none
of which looks like a thumb, and none of which seems to be
engaged in imprinting. It is possible that vValter posed the
hand as though in the act of making the print, and that the
actual imprinting was carried out a few moments later.''
vVe quote the foregoing to show that there is no evidence
that "Walter" materializes a perfectly formed right or left
hand in order to make these prints. So long as the terminals
are formed sufficiently to bear the pattern which is to be im-
printed, there is no need of more perfect formation. There
seems to be no reason for that matter why the pattern of the
entire hand may not be borne by a single teleplasmic surface or
terminal, having no resemblance otherwise to a hand.
However, since the pattern on the wax in this particular
instance is a normal negative, it must have been made by a
digit which bore on its outside surface the normal positive
design, and the digit must have been pressed into the wax in
order to produce it. And since only one print was produced,
it may have been made by any one of the digits shown in the
photograph, although it seems reasonable to suppose that the
pattern was borne by that digit which held the normal position
of the thumb. Further, if our hypothesis with regard to the
reversing of the "Walter" consciousness is to hold, this par-
ticular pattern must have been the reverse of the pattern as
it appears to him in his space.
When an arm and hand are materialized in order that they
may be seen and photographed, the papillary design is not
the important thing and it is, therefore, not necessary to reverse
the idea; consequently, the arm and hand appear to us mirrored,
as we have already shown.
86 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
It would be of great value when a materialized hand is
formed-for instance the hand which appears to us as a left-
if it were possible to obtain in the photograph its papillary
ridge design so that we might check it against our standard
''Walter'' hands and establish conclusively whether it bears
the design it should for the hand in question. We hope some-
time to accomplish this.
In this particular instance, according to the hypothesis we
have presented, this hand, which to us appears as a left hand,
should bear a mirror image of the pattern carried by our stand-
ard "Walter" right hand.
XVI
CHANGED IMPRESSIONS
There are instances in which the earlier published accounts
of the "Walter" thumb prints are not in accord with the records
made after the seances involved, or in which there are statements
which are contrary to fact, which have caused us to question
the value of much of the older material which we have studied
in connection with this report.
We found, for instance, that the dates and numbers in white
ink which the prints carry do not in all instances correspond,
and that the published de.scriptions do not always agree with
the records made after the seance. As an example, and we shall
give but one, we show in Figure 81, in A and B, the obverse
and reverse surfaces of a wax which is elated October 20, 1929.46
This happens to be a double or superposed print. On the back
of this wax appears No. 104 F 3. We have the wax, as well
as a photograph of it which was made for Mr. Dudley by Mr.
Kuntz. But Mr. Dudley, in the manuscript Proceedings, states
that wax No. 104 was made on October 4, 1929; that with wax
No. 105 (which we also have) it was presented to Lord Charles
Hope, and was never photographed.
Of itself, this is a matter of small importance, but it is proof
of the possibility of inaccuracy in the records which might
seriously impair their value.
Also, we have mentioned elsewhere that pores occur fre-
quently on the papillary ridges of the living hand as small de-
pressions. They are actually the openings or mouths of glands
lo'cated deeper in the flesh. If we make ink prints of such an
area the pores will appear as tiny white dots. If we press our
:finger into a plastic, making a negative impression, the ridges
will appear as furrows in the wax, and scattered through the
furrows will appear little nodules wherever pores occur in the
46 Journal .A..S.P.R., Dec. 1929 and manuscript proceedings.
87
88 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
original. If from this negative we should make a positive or
relief these pores would appear as depressions in the ridges-as
they do in the normal finger.
Now turning to page 204 of the Journal for April 1928, to
an article by Mr. Dudley and Mr. Bird, we find the following
statment :
''Pores of course occur freely in the prints. In the
anatomical original these are little mounds in the depressed
lines of the hand; on the negative impressions they are
therefore depressions in the ridges. In print No. 7 (page
201 of the Journal for April, 1'928, our Fig. 81C) the photo-
graph shows particularly well two series of three pores each
at the upper parts of the right hand ridges No. 4 and No. 5.' ~
If this were true, then the wax in question would have to be
either a normal positive or a mirror positive for the statement
indicates that these pores appear as holes in the ridge. Still
further on it is said/6
a "though not always so well visible these
are permanent features and their position js indicated on the
diagram (our Fig. 81D) by a series of three X 's. In the posi-
tive print No. 4 46
b (our Fig. 81E) of course, we see them as
tiny mounds.'' This is impossible, and shows that care was
not taken in the preparation of this article, and is another
indication of the inaccuracies of the early records.
Such inaccuracies as the foregoing, however, were un-
doubtecUy accidental.
But no theory of accident can account for the fact that prints
of historical and scientific importance have been so changed
by some means or other as to render them valueless and lead
us to the almost irresistible conclusion that someone must have
deliberately tampered with them.
In looking over the photographs of the earlier waxes, and
checking them against the waxes in our possession, we were
surprised to discover a very anomolous situation. Some of
the waxes which we have had for study, while still agreeing as
to contour and general marks of identification, show now a
•
!Gru Ms. Proceedings, E.E.D.; also Joumal, April, 1928, p . 198.
46b Journal, April, 1928, p. 209.
FIGURE 81.
A B
A shows two superimposed impressions on a wax dated October 20, 1929; while B shows the back of this same wax, numbered 104 F 3. Accord·
ing to the records, the wax of this number wall 1
wt of this date, was never photographed, ;111d was given to Lord Charles Hope; neve~·theless we have it,
FIGURE 81c.
FIGURE 81D.
FIGURE 81E.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 89
different orientation of the actual thumb impression from that
.shown on the original photographs, the photographic negatives
-
of which, in the five cases we are about to mention, are and
always have been in the custody of Mr. William H. Kuntz,
specialist in photography. How these impressions became
-
changed, we do not know.
We are aware that if the lamp used for illuminating these
waxes when photographing them were placed too close the heat
from it might cause them to soften, and if great care were not
taken the contour might be changed.
But some of the five waxes which we are illustrating, now
bear characteristics that can not be accounted for by a change
due to such a cause. Moreover, if these changes in shape
occurred accidentally while the prints were in Mr. Dudley's
possession, he should certainly have called attention to the
fact, either on the waxes themselves or in a memorandum to
Dr. Crandon, since he placed these very waxes in the collection
for the preservation and display of which he made a special
<;abinet which is now at Lime Street.
We present these altered waxes in their chronological order.
The first is dated July 16, 19,27, and is shown in Figure 82, A
being the original photograph and B showing the wax as it
now is. On this date, according to the records, six prints were
produced at a seance held at Dr. Richardson's house in
Newton. Mr. Dudley, Mr. Bird, and Mr. Fife were in charge
of this sitting. vVe have two of these waxes, and have already
mentioned one of them, No. 39, which bears Mr. Bird's initials.
Scratched on the upper surface of the other one are the initials
A. H. and the figure 4, and there is also an I-I which appears
to have been branded into the edge since the change was made.
On the back of it is scratched the date, presumably in Mr. Bird's
printing.
Mr. Dudley, in the manuscript Proceedings, makes the follow-
ing statement: ''They are all normal negatives, all on wax that
shows little distortion or other evidence of handling, all fairly
good but none brilliant impressions.''
Now this particular wax in its present condition does show
90 l\II.ARGERY l\IIEDIUl\IISHIP
considerable distortion. The broken edge at the top, and the
date agree fully with the original photograph; but there
the resemblance stops. The pattern is not a normal negative
and its orientation is quite different in all respects from that
of the impression shown in the original photograph. On the
back of the wax there is an indentation in which something
resembling a letter B has been scratched.
The second of these altered prints is dated July 22, 1927,
and is one of a group of :five waxes which were made on that
date. The writer has four of them in his possession, as well
as photographs of all :five made from the original negatives
which Mr. Kuntz holds.
In Figure 83, A shows the print as it originally appeared
and B (on the same scale) shows it as it now is. It may be
noted that the general shape of the right side of the wax is
the same in both photographs, and that there is a criss-cross
pattern at the extreme right and at the top made from its con-
tact with cloth. A scratch may be seen running from the right-
hand edge into the :figures 22 of the printed date: These marks,
as well as others that may be seen in both illustrations, show
clearly that the wax in each case is the same, but in A, the origi-
nal photograph, the lines may be seen to slant in a direction dif-
ferent from those in B. . This is shown diagramatically in Figure
84. It may also be noted that there is considerable difference
in the inclination of their axes, as shown by the angles a and b.
If these were the only changes, they might be accounted
for by a softening of the wax from excessive heat, as above
mentioned, but if the patterns are carefully scrutinized, espe-
cially as shown in the diagram, it may be seen that one looks
like a mirror print of the other. Now this can not be accounted
for by a mere change in the angle of the axis of the core. Neither
can it be accounted for by a reversal of the photographic nega-
tive when the original print was made, for in that case the date
also would be reversed, but such is not the case. And as the
photographic negative has never been retouched, the possi-
bility of these changes being due to that process is eliminated.
-
FIGURE 82A.
A shows the wax of J uly 16, 1927, enlarged from the group.
Shown as No. 33 in Figure 43.
FIGURE 82B.
B shows this same wax much distorted and the impression
as it now appears.
FIGURE 83A.
A is a view of a wax of J uly 22, 1927, made from the original
negative of that time.
FIGURE 83B.
B is a view of wax shown in Ay with the impression quite
changed. Notice the scratch running into the 22 on both.
FIGURE 84.
!Diagram of the impression of July 22, 1927, indicating the difference of angle
between the original and the present form, and their tendency to mirror in design.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 9!
We are not attempting to explain how these changes were made,.
for we do not know. The argument that the wax shown in B
is not the same as that shown in A will not hold, in view of the
fact that all the points of identification on other parts of the·
wax still agree with the original photograph. Moreover, the
printing in white ink is in Mr. Dudley's hand; and on the back
is quite clearly marked in the same writing "C7, # 46," which
are the numbers Mr. Dudley uses in presenting the details of
this wax in the J ournalY There is some indication on the back
of the use of a smoothing iron. The impression which the wax:
now bears is much less complete than the original.
The third of these altered prints is one elated August
26, 1927, and marked J. W. F. in white ink. This is the second:
wax which was impressed at Mr. Fife's solus sitting, the first
having already been discussed under that heading.
The face of this wax shows what appears to be a normal
positive relief, the delta being at the right. It is difficult to·
say just what the joint line is. In the manuscript Proceedings,
this was called merely a normal print by Mr. Dudley, so we
have no way of knowing which type it originally represented.
Figure 85, A, shows its original form, while B shows its
present appearance. On the back of this wax is printed # 59'
and a D with a number which can not now be made out. These
are in Mr. Dudley's writing.
The fourth wax under this heading is dated April 29, 1929.
Figure 86, A, shows its original pattern, while its present form
appears in B. It may be noticed that in both illustrations the
upper left-hand edge of this wax shows the cloth markings;
that this edge, the top, and the right-hand side agree in contour,
and that the four little nicks, probably cut for identification
purposes, show distinctly. The lettering also is the same in
both, the middle line of the N and the lower horizontal line of
the F, the periods, and even the minute hole above the period:
after the N show in both photographs, and there are many
other points of similarity which are obvious.
47 Psychic Research, August, 1928, p. 457.
92 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
This wax is supposed to be one of two impressed at Niagara
Falls through another mediumship, at about the time that a
similar print was being produced at Lime Street under ''Mar-
gery." It bears Mr. Dudley's number 89 E 5 on the back and
the three gold seals placed there by the late Theron F. Pierce.
The shape of the impression which the wax now carries would
indicate a normal positive relief, quite distinctly marked except
at the core where the lines are somewhat confused. The joint
line shows quite clearly as a positive at the lower edge, although
in our photograph (B)-through illusion-it appears raised.
Here again we have a reversal which can not be accounted for
by any simple explanation.
The fifth wax under this classification is one which was
made on September 9, 19,29, and is numbered 2 on the face, no
number appearing on the back. In ·Figure 87, A shows its
original and B its present appearance. The wax is now so
much deformed that it is hardly recognizable as the original.
Its contour is quite different, although there is a fold above
the date which looks much the same in both, but the date itself
and the number 2 on the face seem to tell the story. There
is some indication that the change in this wax occurred after
the above date was placed on it, for the figure 2, especially,
seems to have been slightly warped. Here again we have the
reversal of the impression, the print now apparently being a
positive.
Regardless of when these metamorphoses may have taken
place, it is certainly evident that these waxes were in Mr. Dud-
ley 's possession after the changes had been made, for with
practically no exception the numbers in white ink, which it
has always been Mr. Dudley's custom to mark on the back and
front, are so placed that they would have been greatly distorted
had they been on the waxes before the prints were altered.
That the present dimensions of the waxes differ from their
earlier dimensions is shown by a comparison with the earlier
photographs, as well as with the photographs (Figs. 43 and
45) which the writer took of the large group long ago.
FIGURE 85.
Two views of a wax of August 26, 1927, initialed, presumably, by Mr. Fife. A shows the
impression as it appeared at that time, and B as it now appears.
FJCURE 8 GA.
A shows the impression on a wax obtainecl at Niagara Falls on April 29, 1929,
through another medium, "Ma1·gery " being in Boston at the time.
FIGURE 86B.
B shows this same wax, but as it now is, bearing an entirely aifferent impression.
'l'here are many points of iaentity on the waxes shown in these two photographs.
FIGURE 87A.
A shows a wax of September 9, 1929, marked No. 2, and
was made from the original negative.
FIGURE 87B.
B shows this wax as it now appears, much
deformed, and with the orientation of its
design changed.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 93
In some way these five prints have been substituted for the
prints which these waxes originally bore. This, of course,
could have been accomplished only by first softening the wax,
which would account for such changes as are noticeable in the
contour and shape of each piece, unless indeed, the entire waxes
and impressions have been artificially made and substituted
for those whose number and date they bear. This, however,
could hardly have happened in the case of the wax imprinted
at Niagara Falls.
We do not know how, or when, or why these changes were
made. We merely know that these waxes do not now carry
the impressions they bore at the time they were originally
photographed; and that they are sufficiently well executed so
that had we not been comparing our material carefully with
the earlier records aild photographs, we might have accepted
them as supernormally produced prints.
In view of this circumstance, it is an inescapable hypothesis
that the other waxes which we have considered in our study
and which, for one reason or another, we have not been able
to check with previous records, may have been similarly changed.
Experimentation on original waxes may at times, be neces-
sary and legitimate, but to obliterate or change markings on
waxes of importance for any reason whatsoever without definite
disclosure and record of changes is certainly indefensible and
compels suspicion if not conviction that whoever was respon-
sible for these changes had a fraudulent purpose to serve.
Of the five waxes under consideration, three ·were produced
under unusual conditions, one having been imprinted in Newton,
away from Lime Street, with only Bird, Fife, and Dudley
present; another at a solus sitting for Fife a few days later;
and the third being one of those produced at Niagara Falls at
a time when "Margery" was at her home in Lime Street.
Since these were all secured under exceptional conditions, for
that reason if for no other they should not have been used for
experimentation.
In his account of the seance of October 20, 1929, in the manu-
94 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
script Proceedings, Mr. Dudley has the following to say concern-
ing two overlapping normal negatives of the "Walter" right
thumb obtained on one of the waxes: "If the reader will experi-
ment with this wax (Kerr) he will :find it a simple matter to make
one print, and (after reheating the wax) to superpose a second
print on the :first, but he will .doubtless discover, as did the
wr·iter, that it is exceedingly difficult to retain more than the
faintest trace of the :first print." (Our italics.)
We quote this to show that Mr. Dudley had carried on ex-
periments of this sort, and we have elsewhere referred to some
artificial prints which he made and which were submitted to a
:finger print expert to see if they could be qetected.
As evidence that these waxes were changed before being
marked on the back for indexing, let U:s look at the back of the
wax supposed to have been made at Niagara Falls on April 29,
1929, as it appeared before Mr. Dudley put his index number
89 E 5 on the back. This is shown in Figure 88. It will be noted
that almost the entire surface of the back is well indented by
cloth markings. The letters KER, and especially the K, are very
sharply cut. The three gold seals show no sign of distortion,
and there is what appears to be a roman numeral I close to
the two end seals, although this does not show very clearly in
the photograph.
Then let us look at Figure 89, which shows the back of this
wax as it now appears. It may be seen that the seal on the
end that has been changed is blurred and spread and that the
roman I is farther away from the seal than it was originally.
Furthermore, nearly half the surface of the wax on this end is
fairly smooth, the cloth marks, as \Vell as part of the K, having
been obliterated. This, of course, is what would be expected if
the wax were heated and stretched out more than a quarter of an
inch as it has been.
But the important point is that the lettering ~ 89 E 5
is not distorted in the least, as it must have been had it been
on the wax before this change occurred. Moreover, it is on
the now smooth surface and it was not on that surface when
FIGURE 88.
The backs of two impressions made on April 9, 1929 ; the one with the letters
KER showing being the one produced at Niagara Falls, while the other was made at
Lime Street within an hour or so. 'rhis photograph shows them as they appearecl at
the time of their production.
FIGURE 89.
Shows the back of the wax imprinted at Niagara Falls as it now appears.
MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP 95
the latter bore the imprint of the cloth, as 1s shown by the
photograph.
Also the wax of July 16, 1927, which we are not illustrating,
showed originally a relatively :flat surface, as may be seen by
looking at No. 35 in Figure 44; but now it carries a considerable
depression which shows coarser cloth markings than did the
original, indicating that a cloth was used which prevented the
hand which altered the impression from leaving an imprint;
and into this area has been scratched, since the change was
made, what appears to be a letter B that seems to agree in
appearance with that letter on other waxes which have been
marked by Mr. Dudley.
The other waxes bear equally convincing evidence of having
been marked after their impressions ·were changed.
These waxes were certainly not altered supernormally, and
we do not know of any simple method by which mirror prints of
existing patterns can be made, yet a casual comparison of the
photographs might lead one to think that these five impressions
are mirror prints of the designs which these waxes originally
carried.
We have never heard "Walter" suggest the re-use of an
old wax or the possibility of making an impression over for
the purpose of improving it, and nothing in the records indi-
cates that this was ever attempted or even thought of by anyone
interested in these experiments. vVhen poor results have been
obtained "Walter" has often insisted upon having another
piece of wax, in order to try again, and naturally a fresh piece
of Kerr was always provided. ·
A most regr'Mtable circumstance in connection with these
changed prints is that several of them were included in the
group which the writer sent to Dr. Harold Cummins of Tulane
University for comparison with photographs of Dr. "X's"
impressions. It was not until some time after Dr. Cummins'
report was received that the fact that some of these waxes were
of questionable origin was dicovered.
Dr. Cummins very kindly gave a great deal of time to the
96 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
careful study of the data which we sent him, and submitted two
reports, both of which appear in full in the appendix, and we
wish to make this acknowledgment of our appreciation of his
meticulous study and our regret that the character of much of
the material sent to him necessarily disqualifies it for use as
evidence in this matter.
•
XVII
CoMPARISON OF THE HANDS OF "MARGERY,"
''WALTER'' AND DR. ''X''
Having classified the "Walter" standard hands, and shown
that in general the old casts and waxes agree with them in pat-
tern, let us now make a comparison of the various characteristics
of the hands, :fingers and thumbs of "Margery" "Walter"
and Dr. "X," since the refusal to accept the "\iValter" prints
as unique is for the most part based on the claim that they are
in fact replicas of the normal prints of either "Margery" or
Dr. "X," produced normally or by means of dies.
We think we have satisfactorily demonstrated that dies
could not have been used and were not used in the seances which
were held under our control and at which the complete "Wal-
ter" hands were produced, and since most of the "\iValter"
thumb impressions made during the earlier years of this
mediumship agree with those of our more recent experiments,
we may assume that dies were not used in the production of
the earlier impressions.
We have also, we believe, satisfactorily established the fact
that these standard hands were supernormally produced, so
that if their markings should correspond in any degree with
those on the hands of either "Margery" or Dr. "X," explana-
tion of the parallelism must be found in some other direction
than -conscious fraud.
In order to determine whether our "Walter" hands do
carry the same characteristics as those of "Margery" or of
Dr. "X," let us make a complete analysis and comparison of all
three pairs of hands. (Figs. 90, 32 and 91.)
PALMS
We have already shown photographs of what we term the
"\iValter" standard hands (Figs. .5 and 6), and also these same
hands on a smaller scale with some of the main lines of the
97
98 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
palm emphasized (Fig. 32). Now. let us compare the palms
of "Margery," "\iValter" and Dr. "X," as shown in Figs. 92
and 93, based on prints made by Mr. Bert vVentworth.
The main palm lines and the deltas at the roots of the
fingers show quite clearly the differences in orientation.
The palms of ''Margery's'' hands are small in comparison
\vith those of "vValter" and Dr. "X." "Walter's" palms and
hands are large. He was a large man as indicated by photo-
graphs of him and confirmed by family statements, and we
should naturally expect large hands. He was a locomotive
fireman and it is reasonable to assume that his work had made
his hands more than ordinarily muscular.
On the other hand, while Dr. ''X'' {s a good sized man,
weighing approximately 175 pounds and being 5 feet 8% inches
in height, his left hand is not nearly as large as his right, a
difference which can probably be accounted for by his constant
manipulation of tools as a dentist, which would naturally de-
velop his right hand to a greater extent than his left;
If vve consider the outlines of these palms ':vithout reference
to their size, we see that in general shape these six hands present
considerable variation, although this would also depend slightly
npon the amount of pressure used in making the prints.
If we note the position of the deltas a, b, c and d in each
palm at the roots of the fingers and trace the main lines A,
B, C, and D that go from these deltas across the palm, we shall
see that no two of them are exactly alike, and that the inclina-
tion and termination of the lines at the edge of the palm are
different in all cases.
One very special characteristic is to be seen in the left palm
of Dr. "X," where there is a well marked loop near the outer
edge. This occurs in none of the other five palms.
The classification of these palms, which will mean little
to the lay reader, as given by Mr. Wentworth, using his own
method, is indicated by the figures in each palm diagram
(Figs. 92 and 93). In the case of some of these there are two
classifications given, since Mr. Wentworth could not determine
where some of the lines ended in the particular print he had.
:·~ t ~
i#J~.·
11-7-7-5
28
11-7-7-3
28
Left Hand
FIGURE 90.
11-9-7-5
30
Right Hand
·~\l
Palm and finger impressions of the right and left hands of "Margery", showing at s on the right hand, the
scar in the palm.
9-7-5-3
12
Left Hand
Fl:GURE91.
7-5-5-3
28
Right Hand
Palm and finger prints of Dr. "X". Note the loop in the left palm formed by ridges.
FIGURE 92.
'l'Le right palm impressions of "Margery", "Walter" and Dr. "X", reduced to the same scale and showing some of the
characteristic palm lines.
~--..........=---
"-
FIGURE 93.
The left palm impressions of "Margery", "Walter" and Dr. "X", reduced to the same scale and showing characteristic
lines.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 99
Dr. Harold Cummins in his report,48
using his formulation
of the palmer features, says that this formulation of the major
dermatoglyphic characters is expressive of the existence of
outstanding ~mlikenesses (oti.r italics) and that it may be stated
with assurance that the impressions were not made by the same
person. His analysis is as follows:
Right Pal1n
"Dr. X" 7 (8).5"(6) .5".3-t-Au.O.O.O.L.
"Walter" 11.9. 7. 5'-t-Au. 0. 0. L. M.
"Dr. X"
"Walter"
Left Palm
7 (8) .5"(6) .5:.3(2)-t-L".O.O.O.L.
11. 9. 7.4-t-Au. 0 .0 .L .0.
Thus, it is quite apparent that these are the palms of six
different hands.
In the case of the "vValter" palms, since there was no way
by which we could make direct ink prints from the waxes with-
out damaging them, we relied on photography, the area being
too large to permit of the use of any of the methods of repro-
duction which we used in connection with the study of the
:fingers.
FINGER TIPS
Next let us examine the :finger tip pattern of each of the thirty
:fingers.
These were obtained by several methods. Figure 94 shows
a copy of the official record made by Mr. Bert Wentworth of
"Margery's" :fingerprints, with the designation of the type
of design, the ridge count, and the classification.
The :fingerprints of Dr. "X," likewise classified by Mr.
Wentworth, are shown in Figure 95.
"vValter 's" prints taken from our standard hands and
arranged in a manner similar to the ink prints, we give in
Figure 30.
As we have never obtained supernormal ink prints 48
a: of the
48 Appendix XV.
4Ba Psychic Research, February, 1928, pp. 99-100. Ink prints produced super·
normally.
100 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
"Walter" fingers, it was necessary to devise various methods
for obtaining prints for the purpose of this comparison, and
for this classification made by Mr. Wentworth we took photo-
graphs of the tips of the fingers of the standard "vValter"
hands in relief, reversed the negatives, and then made a set of
prints as shown on the chart, although Mr. Wentworth had
already made a similar classification with regard to the :fingers
and palms from the standard hands shown in Figure 32.
It may be seen that in most of the cases the ridge counts
of the different fingers vary widely, and the classifications show
clearly that no two homologous fingers are identical.
There are, however, some points of similarity, especially
on the right thumbs, which will be considered later.
Examining the right forefinger of each, we note that "Mar-
gery's" has a radial loop with a count of five; "vValter 's" an
ulnar loop with a count of four; and Dr. "X 's" a radial loop
with a count of five, the same as "Margery's"; but that the
designs themselves are different may be seen by a study of the
photographs.
We would mention here that the radial loop is found -more
frequently on this finger than on any other, occurring in ap-
proximately 25 per cent of all right index fingers/9
while the
ulnar loop occurs in 27 per cent of them.
The middle finger of "Margery's" right hand has an arch;
that of "Walter" an ulnar loop ·with a count of eight; and that
of Dr. "X" an ulnar loop with a count of fourteen. The ridge
count here would definitely differentiate the latter from "vVal-
ter 's" without respect to the ridge design; while "Margery's"
arch is in an entirely different class from either. Arches occur
on this finger in only 10 per cent of all cases, 1vhile ulnar loops
occur in about 71 per cent.
The ring finger of "Margery's" right hand has an ulnar
loop with a count of six; that of "\iValter" an ulnar loop with
a count of eighteen (again no similarity on this basis alone) ;
and Dr. "X's" has an ulnar loop with a count of thirteen.
There is too great a difference in the count between these last
49 Appendix XVII: Bonnevie Distribution of Patterns on Different Fingers.
NAME If' M
11
CLASSIF ICATION
I !FA u
F. P. No. BER. No {-f)
PRISON. 1.1111.1
RICH~ND
5. R. LITTLE FINGER
----~~~-~R~IG~>~IT~T~>~IU~M~B~---- ~~--~
2~--R~·~F~O~R~E~FI~N~G~E~R~-~---~J~.~R~
. M~JO~O~L~E~F~
· I~N~G~E~R--·I----·
-
·-R_._RINGFINGER
{,
'f!-/
7 ~. ~-~. A
LEfT HAND
7. L. F'O~_R___..!:._~~£!~~- ---"9'-
. ..;L;c
.C-'R'-'INC-'G;:...:..FC-'IN'-'
G
'-'E:.:.
' ".:---I--'I.:.O·;__;:L:....;:L:.:.IT..:T.::L.;:Ec.;F..;.INC.G::.E::;R.:.....
,,- 4
--~---------~L~E~r=T~I1~A~N~D~-'------------~·------~--~~~-=~~~---------'--------­
PLAIN I MPRESSIO!"S OF Tt·IE FOUR FINGERS TAKEN SIMULTANEOUSLY IPLAIN IMPRESSIONS OF THF. FOUR FINGERS TAKEN S I MULTANEOUSLY
FIGURE 94.
Mr. Bert Wentworth's classification of "Margery's" fingers.
CLASSI F ICATION
FIGURE 95.
Mr. Bert Wentworth's classification of Dr. "X 's" fingers.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 101
two to be due to any difficulty in making out the ridges. Ulnar
loops occur on the ring :finger of the right hand in about 51
per cent of all cases.
The little :finger of "Margery's" right hand has an ulnar
loop with a count of six; "Walter's" an eyelet ulnar loop with
a count of nine; and that of Dr. ''X'' an ulnar loop with a
count of fourteen. Here again the ridge count, without fur-
ther consideration, would prove that these :fingers were not
identicaL Ulnar loops on this :finger form about 84 per cent
of the total.
Taking now the left hand, "Margery's" index :finger has
an ulnar loop with a count of three, while "vValter's" has a
radial loop with a count of four, and Dr. "X's" has a tented
arch. Radial loops 011 this finger of the left hand are found
in 22 per cent of all cases, while ulnar loops comprise about
34 per cent and arches 16 per cent. Arches are found more
frequently on the forefinger than any other, but to a greater
extent on the right hand than on the left.
The middle finger of "Margery's" left hand has an ulnar
loop with a count of three; "Walter's" an ulnar loop with
a count of nine; and Dr. "X's" an ulnar loop ·with a count of
eight. On this finger ulnar loops occur to the extent of about
70 per cent. The ridge count difference between the "Walter"
finger and Dr. "X's" is only slight but the designs are quite
different.
"Margery's" ring finger has an ulnar loop with a count
of five; "Walter's" a central pocket ulnar loop 1vith a count
of sixteen; and Dr. "X's" an ulnar loop with a count of nine-
teen. On this finger of the left hand about 67 per cent of the
patterns are ulnar loops.
Coming now to the little finger, "Margery's" has an ulnar
loop lvith a count of four; "Walter's" an ulnar loop with a
count of seven; and Dr. "X's" an ulnar loop with a count of
fifteen. Their designs, however, are not alike and the angles
of the core are different.
Ulnar loops are found more frequently on this finger than
on any other, and on the left hand especially they may occur
in as high as 86 per cent of all cases.
10,2 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
From this study of the finger-tips of these thirty digits, and
their papillary design and ridge counts, and a comparison of
each not only with the homologous fingers but individually with
each of the other digits, it is apparent that each contains char-
acteristics which show not only that it is not identical with any
of the others, but, in most cases, that each is quite different
from any of the others.
THUMBS
Taking now the right thumbs, "Margery's" has an ulnar
loop with a count of twenty-one; "Walter's" an ulnar loop
with a count of twenty-two; and Dr. "X's" an ulnar loop with
a count of twenty-three. Fifty-five per cent of right thumbs
carry ulnar loops. On the basis of ridge count alone these
right thumbs do not differ widely. There is a greater difference
between the design on "Margery's" thumb and that on "Wal-
ter's" than there is between the latter's and Dr. "X's." The
angle of inclination of the core on "Margery's" is much lesE>
than on the others, being about forty-five degrees, while "\iVal-
ter's" is about sixty degrees and Dr. "X's" about seventy-
five degrees. The core of "Margery's" thumb and that of
"Walter" are staples, a similarity which might be expected
because of their relationship. The core of Dr. "X's" right
thumb, ho·wever, is a rod.
As to the left thumbs, "Margery's" has an ulnar loop with
a count of fifteen; "Walter's" an ulnar loop with a count of
twelve; and Dr. "X's" an ulnar loop with a count of sixteen.
In the case of left thumbs about 6·6 per cent have an ulnar
loop.
We might add here that the ulnar loops are found to a
greater extent on the fingers of members of the English race
than on those of any other.50
Now let us compare the pattern areas of these six thumbs.
By the pattern area we mean that section bounded by the ridges
originating at the delta and more or less enveloping the part
immediately surrounding the core, as shown in Figure 96.
50 Appendix XVIII: Bonnevie: Dist1·ibution of Patte1-ns in Diffm·ent Hurnan
!laces.
Open end of' Loop
~-_....___.,
Pattern Area
( Ink Print)
FIGURE 96.
Diagram interpreting the pattern area of au ulnar loop.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 103
These pattern areas of the six thumbs, shown in Figure 97,
have been enlarged to the same scale and oriented so that their
joint lines are approximately horizontal.
The ball of the right thumb is naturally larger than that
of the left because of the greater use of the right hand. ''Mar-
gery" and Dr. "X" are both right handed; and we understand
that Walter Stinson was likewise right handed.
"Margery's" thumbs since she is a woman, are naturally
smaller than the others, while the pattern areas of the right
thumbs of "vValter" and Dr. "X" are not of the same shape,
"Walter's" being somewhat larger and higher than Dr. "X's,"
although not greatly different from it. The pattern area of
Dr. ''X's'' right thumb is larger in comparison with his left
thumb than is either of the others. This again is doubtless due
to the constant pressure on his thumb in handling his instru-
ments.
The :fine lines in the center of these diagrams show the
general position of the cores relative to the whole area and their
angle of inclination with the joint lines. No two are alike in
either of these respects, as may be seen.
No creases or severe scars show on "Margery's" right thumb
or on "Walter's" in these impressions; but there is decided
evidence of one on Dr. "X's," as shown at the right of the
core by the dotted line, and also one near the delta not shown
here.
Taking now the pattern areas of the left thumbs, the dif-
ference in the inclination of the cores is perhaps not quite so
marked as in the right thumbs, and each one shows definite indi-
cation of creases or scars, there being two on "Margery's"
and a very deep one diagonally across the core of "vValter's."
This has appeared in every left-thumb imprint we have had,
both positive and negative, and appears in those of 1927 that
we hold.
Dr. "X's" left thumb also has a very noticeable crease
near the top of the core running to the left and sloping slightly
downward. There is also a short crease partially within the
core and to its right; and still more important, there is an area
]04 MARGERY MEDIUMSI-:IIP
near the boundary line of the pattern which is scarred by an
old suppuration. None of these occurs in any "Walter" thumb
print. "\iValter" claims to remember having cut his left thumb,
but neither "Margery" nor Dr. "X" can state when their
scars or creases developed, a~though appearances indicate that
they are not recent.
We shall now consider a study of these six thumb impres-
sions made by a method similar to the ordinary ink process, but
covering only the area about the core.
Having no ink print of the "Walter" thumb, we felt that
a fairer comparison as to general form might be made by using
for this purpose normal negative thumb impressions in wax
of ''Margery,'' and Dr. ''X,'' also, thus producing them all by
the same method.
Care was used in taking these impressions to select waxes
that were smooth and even, in order to avoid distortion, and
transfers were made from these negatives to a paper surface
by means of special wax. These transfers were somewhat
latent, and in order to bring out the ridges for photographic
purposes they were dusted carefully with a very fine carbon
black.
The six impressions are shown in Figure 98, all enlarged
to the same scale. They are not particularly good in places,
as it is difficult to make as completely detailed a print by this
method as could be obtained by the ink methods.
The three sets of :finger prints signed by Mr. Wentworth,
which we have already shown (Figs. 94, 30 and95), give a much
clearer idea of the details than does this :figure, but for this
purpose Mr. ·wentworth's prints could not very well be used,
since those of "Walter" were made from decidedly convex
waxes and would therefore be considerably foreshortened.
A comparison of "Margery's" right thumb with those of
""Walter" and Dr. "X" reveals that it is entirely different
from either, although it has some of the general characteristics
of "Walter's," and we need not spend any time on these points
of difference since they are so apparent.
Between "Walter's" right thumb and that of Dr. "X" we
FIGURE 97.
Diagram showing pattern area of right and left thumbs of "Margery", "Walter"
and Dr. ''X''. Fine full lines indicate position of the core; dotted lines indicate scars,
cuts or creases.
Left Thumbs
FIGURE 98.
Central areas of the six thumbs, made in a manner similar to ink-prints, and showing structure at the cores. There are many
imperfections in these, due to the process used.
1
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 105
shall find many points of similarity. In fact, these thumbs are
-extraordinarily alike. Mr. Dudley, in his exhibit, indicates some
twenty-seven points of similarity, and one expert indicated more
than forty points. But in our opinion there is one major dif-
ference, at least, and that is in the core, for in "vValter's"
ihumb the core is a staple, while in Dr. "X's" it is a rod. We
are well aware that almost any police bureau of identification,
finding eight to twelve points of similarity on two prints, and
no marked differences would feel convinced that they ..were of
·one and the same digit. But here, we believe, is one great
-difference. And there are other slighter differences, such as
the character and weight of the lines, and the shape and loca-
iion of the deltas.
So far as the study of the pore structure is concerned, while
it is possible to make enlargements of the ink prints of both
"Margery" and Dr. "X" showing clearly the location and
shape of many pores, we have not been able to find any method
by which we could satisfactorily do this with either the positive
-or negative impressions in wax of the "Walter" thumb, nor
have we been able to find anyone else who could do so.
We have already stated that many waxes show indications
<>f pore structure, but satisfactorily to transfer these to an ink
print or photograph them seems quite impossible.
There is little need to do more than glance at the left thumbs
-of the group because their designs are so radically different.
·There is one point of similarity on "Margery's" and Dr. "X's"
which is of interest, and that is the crease to the left and near
ihe top of the core. Here is a case in which two living people
have a crease on the left thumb, similarly located although by
no means identical. While there is no similarity between "Mar-
gery's" left thumb and that of Dr. "X," there is even greater
-difference between that of "Walter" and that of Dr. "X," in
pattern as well as in the quality and character of the lines.
CLASSIFICATION OF RmaE CouNT
If we classify the thirty fingers of "Margery," "Walter,"
and Dr. "X" on the basis of ridge counts,51
using the method
51 Wentworth and Wilder, Pe1·sonal Identification, 1932 Edition.
106 1\ILA.RGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of H. H. Newman 52
of Hull Zoological Laboratory, University
of Chicago, we shall obtain the values shown in the following
table.
"1YI" "vV" Dr. "X"
Right thumb 12 12 13
·Left thumb 9 7 9
Right index 4 3 4
Left index 3 3 1
Right middle 1 5 8
Left middle 3 6 5
Right ring 4 10 8
Left ring 4 9 11
Right little 4 6 8
Left little 3 5 9
This method of comparison apparently gives a fairer dis-
tribution of the quantitative values and is less arbitrary, espe..
cially where a ridge count runs high, than that of Professor
Bonnevie,03
and while, undoubtedly, when the ridge counts of
two fingers are relatively close its value may be questionable,
it does give an idea of the variation from this point of viewr
and is quite enlightening in the case of the fingers of these six
hands as showing differences of value which might not other-
wise be apparent. There is no case in which the homologous
fingers of all these three have the same value. There are two
cases in which homologous fingers of "Margery" and "Walter"
have the same value, namely, in right thumbs and left index
fingers; and there are two cases in which homologous fingers
of "Margery" and Dr. "X" have the same value-the left
thumbs and right index fingers. Four of "Margery's" fingers
have the same value; three of them have another; and the
remaining three are all different.
52H. H. Newman, "The Finger Prints o£ Twi.ns", Jo~tnwl of Genetics, Vol.
XXIII, No. 3, Dec. 1930.
53 Kristine Bonnevie, ''Studies on Papillary Patterns o£ Human Fingers'';
Journal of Genetics, Vol. :X.V.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 107
In the case of "Walter" there are three pairs, each pair
having a different value; each of the remaining four fingers
is different.
In Dr. "X's" case three fingers have one value; two have
another; and each of the remaining five is different.
What is perhaps even more interesting is that the homol-
ogous fingers of "Walter" and Dr. "X" are in different
classes in every case, although in some cases this difference
is slight. Their only similarity occurs between "Walter's"
right middle finger and. Dr. "X's" left middle :finger, which
have the same value, but a glance at the actual designs on the
classification sheets shows them to be quite different.
It is also interesting to note that the values tend to be
smallest in "Margery's" case and highest in that of Dr. "X,"
although this fact may have little, if any, significance.
A point ·which the finger-print expert would not have to
take into consideration is the possibility of two fingers which
are not homologous .being of identical pattern, but in this in-
vestigation, because of the supernormal character of the "\iVal-
ter" prints, it was necessary to check each finger of the
"\iValter" hands ·with each and every finger of Dr. "X's" hands
to make certain that there were no possible duplications of
any of the prints. In fact, this comparison has been made with
all the finger prints which we have on file.
RIDGES AND FURROWS
Microscopic examination of the negative impressions of the
right and left thumbs of "Margery," "\iValter," and Dr. "X,"
using for this purpose waxes having a relatively flat surface,
shows by actual measurement that the ridges on the "Walter"
thumbs are ve1~y much wider than those of either "Margery"
or Dr. "X," and that the ridge intervals of both thumbs are
considerably greater than those of Dr. "X." The following
table gives the average measurements of these six thumbs, both
as to ridge width (R) and furrow width (F). vVe have also
t~bulated the average ridge interval (R +F) and the ridge and
108 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
furrow difference (R - F ), as well as the ratio of ridge to
furrow
R
(F ).
RIGHT THUMBS
R
R F R+F R-F F
"Margery'' 0.324 0.084 0.408 0.241 3.9
"Walter" 0.384 0. 171 0.555 0.213 2.25
Dr. "X" 0.360 0. 087 0.447 0.273 4.86
LEFT THUMBS
R
R F R+F R-F F
"Margery" 0.347 0.165 0.512 0.182 2.1
"Walter" 0.359 0.217 0.576 0.143 1.66
Dr. "X" 0.370 0. 171 0.542 0.199 2.16
'.rhere are very few data available on the actual dimensions
of ridges and furrows, and we have not considered a suf(icieni.
number of cases to warrant drawing any conclusions, but we
wonder whether the ratio of ridge to furrow may not perhaps
indicate a constitutional difference. These measurements were
made near the center of the ball of the thumb between the core
and the delta, and are expressed in millimeters. We used the
negative waxes, as we felt they would give a fairer comparison
than either ink prints, which we did not have of ''Walter,'' or
relief >vaxes, which of course we did not have of "Margery" or
Dr. "X," and while there are great irregularities in the ridges
of all the waxes, we believe that a sufiicient number of measure-
mellts was made to warrant use of the above averages. (Profes-
sor vValsted made independent measurements on six or eight
waxes and arrived at similar conclusions.) But as we have
already mentioned, on some of the "Walter" prints there is no
appreciable difference between the width of ridge and that of
furrow. vVe have made measurements of other thumbs and
find that they are comparable to those under consideration.
While we can not draw conclusions with regard to these
various relationships, it does seem quite significant that the
1\ILARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 109
dimensions of the ridges and furrows of the "Walter" thumb
are decidedly different from those of Dr. "X's"
We were also interested to :find that in all cases the ridge
intervals of the left thumb are greater than those of the right.
CoRES
Microphotographs of the tips of the cores of the right thumbs
of "Walter" and Dr. "X" (Fig. 99) show quite clearly the
differences in their structure, the width of their ridges and their
furrows. The texture of the surfaces is quite different, and
this can not be accounted for by difference of illumination,
for both were illuminated in exactly the same way, both en-
larged to the same diameter, and both made from negative
impressions in wax. "vValter's" is sho·wn in A-from an
impression made some time ago; and B shows Dr. "X's"-
from an impression which he made for us of his right thumb.
Many readers may have difficulty in seeing the structure,
due to illusion, but sometimes this may be overcome by turning
the cut so that the light will strike it at a different angle. Fur-
thermore, it should be kept in mind that these are negatives
and that what appear to be ridges are really the furrows of
the actual thumbs. We have numbered these ridges to help
identify them.
It will be noticed that in "Walter's" case ridge :five has a
definite end, while in Dr. "X's" case ridge five continues around
into ridge four, although it is thin at the top; also that ridges
two and three on Dr. "X's" join, and that their junction is
about on a line with ridge five; and that between ridges one
and two of "Walter's" thumb the furrow curves toward the
top very perceptibly, while in Dr. "X's" the furrow does not
curve although it is bent very slightly. Ridge four in "vVal-
ter 's'' is also a dead end; the upper end has a very small bi-
furcation and then stops; it does not actually merge with any
of the others. There are many other points of dissimilarity
apparent to the eye with a little study.
There is nothing unusual about the design of the tip of
the core of the "Walter" right thumb, for Galton in his Finger
110 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
Prints,54
under the subject of Cores, illustrates the various
types of staples as shown in Fig1.ue 100. No. 39 is the one of
which "Walter's" is typical.
In making a careful study of the design of the core of the
"Walter" right thumb in various impressions, we :find slight
differences, as would be expected, but it would be quite dif-ficult
to photograph and reproduce these in illustrations. We have,
therefore, made a conventionalized diagrammatic study of this
part of the thumb (Fig. 101). These :five diagrams-A, B,
C, D, E-are normal positives in relief which show the design
as it would appear to one looking at the actual thumb. The
joint line, also, is diagrammatically shown, with the bifurca-
tion opening to the right, not with the idea of showing varia-
tions in the joint but in order to show schematically how it
looks in relation to the thumb in.relief.
The joint lines, since these ..represent positives, would be
depressed, while the ridges, also indicated by black lines, would
be raised.
It will he noted that about the only variation in these five
diagrams is the relative position of the tips of the two ridges
p and y. In some cases these are virtually in contact with the
top of the staple while in others they are in intermediate posi-
tions, as may be seen. This may be due to difference in pres-
sure, or to the condition of the wax at the time of making the
impression, or to some factor in the impressing mechanism.
Similar differences are often found in ordinary ink prints.
-While we have a number of prints of each of these types,
most of them seem to fall into the group shown as B. The
important point is that in all these cases the core is a staple.
There are also variations, as might be expected, in the l)rints
which are normal negatives, and some of these are shown at
F, G, H, I, and J. Most of them, however, seem to fall in
group F, a positive of which would be approximately like A.
Most of the differences in the negative designs are not actual
but are due to imperfections or entire lack of detail.
54 Sir Francis Galton, Finge1· P1·ints, 1892 Edition, p. 75.
FIGURE 99.
A micro-photograph of the tip of the core of the right thumbs of "Walter" and Dr. "X"~ These representnegative
impressions and the ridges of the negative-which in the real finger are the furrows-are numbered. Notice that in A, the
"Walter" print, ridge 5 is surrounded by a depression whieh would form a staple in the positive; while in B, Dr. "X's",
ridge 4 is continuous with ridge 5, leaving a depression between them whieh would form a rod in the positive. These were both
made on the same kind of wax and with identical illumination, yet notice the difference in texture and structure.
86
Plain.
37
l parted.
Staples :- their envelopes are indicated by dots.
,..!i);"' -;,lfj; /:X;
/IIf.,.. llIll .../ 1/
38 39 40 41 42
! parted. t parted. Tuning fork. Single eyed. Doubleeyed.
FIGURE 100.
Diagram taken from Galton 's ''Fingerprints'' which shows vm·ious forms of staples,
N os. 38 ancl 39 being somewhat like that on the ''Walter" right thumb.
----== ---== __..c:::::: --=== _.....::::=::.
A B C D E
--::;::::-- :::;;;-- ~ -:;:::::- -;:::;--
F G H I J
FIGURE 101.
Diagram showing some of the variations in the positive and negative impressions of
the "Walter" right thumb.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 111
DELTAS
A careful examination of the deltas on the right thumbs
of "Walter" and Dr. "X," under quite high magnification,
(Fig. 102), shows that the angles of the ridges forming the delta
are somewhat different from each other and that the deltas
themselves are structurally different.
It may also be noticed that the core of the delta of the Dr
"X" thumb forms a Y, while that of "Walter" does not; and
that there are other unlikenesses which are apparent in the
illustration. These may seem to be points of minor impor-
tance, but it is in the smaller details that the differences in these
two thumbs are found. Mr. Wentworth, in his book on Personal
Identification,"5
in order to illustrate slight differences that are
not apparent to the eye, calls attention by diagram to two
deltas which under low magnification appear to be alike, but
which under high magnification are seen to show slighter dif-
ferences than do similar areas on the thumbs of "Walter" and
Dr. "X," but which Mr. Wentworth considers sufficient proof
that they are different. To be sure, in his case he knew that the
thumbs were of different persons, but he was trying to show to
the layman how difficult it might have been to convince anyone
unfamiliar with the subject that they were different.
It might be argued by some that by slight changes the ridges
of the delta in "Walter's" thumb could be made to agree with
those of Dr. "X," but that is no more true of these than it
is of any two similar patterns of different thumbs, such as
those shown by Mr. Wentworth, for instance. Furthermore,
numerous prints of the delta of Dr. "X's" right thumb, when
enlarged, show that these characteristics are always present,
and the " ·Walter" characteristics consistently appear in such
impressions as include distinct deltas. Therefore, it is perfectly
reasonable to say that the deltas of these two thumbs are not
identical.
ScARs AND CREASEs
In discussions of this matter much has been made of scars,
especially of one which it is claimed shows on the upper right
55 Pe1·sonal Identification, by Wentworth and Wilder, 1932 Edition, p. 325.
112 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
of the "Walter" positive reliefs, and one at the lower left of
these same reliefs. The variability of these has been men-
tioned in the Journal. Sometimes they are present and at
other times they are not visible.
On the other hand, such scars and creases as are on ''Mar-
gery's" thumb or Dr. "X's" would show on any ink print
that is well made. In other words, they are persistent, and,
therefore, it could be taken for granted that they really exist
even if it were not possible to see the actual thumbs.
In the "Walter" prints, however, they are so variable that
it is not logical to use them in comparisons.
The only exception to this is in the case of the "Walter"
left thumb, where a scar seems to show in all waxes. And while
both Dr. "X" and "Margery" also have scars or creases on
their left thumbs, they are radically different in location and
orientation from that of "Walter's."
Further, as has already been pointed out, Dr. "X" has an
old scar due to suppuration on his left thumb, which does not
appear in any "Walter" thumbs which we hold.
Therefore, not much is to be gained from a study of these
scars except in the case of the one on the "Walter" left thumb.
"Walter" claims that there are no scars on his right thumb,
but that there is one on his left.
JOINT LINES
It may seem of little value to show a comparison of the
joint lines of these thumbs, and apparently few data are avail-
able to show whether joint lines are permanent or not, but it
seems probable that they do not change greatly during life.
In this study one thing seems to be quite definite, and that is
that the joint line of the "Walter" right thumb appears to have
retained the same character and shape during all the years
of these phenomena, having one large bifurcation and a smaller
one on the upper branch. Dr. "X's" is quite different in
shape as well as in size and character and has a small bifurca-
tion on the upper line but no large bifurcation, although it
might seem to have a large one since it is made up of two lines
which almost blend, each one being somewhat tangent to the
(A) "Walter" (B) Dr. "X"
FIGURE 102.
Micro-photograph, showing differences of structure between the clelta of tlw
"Walter " right thumb ancl the delta of the Dr. "X" right thumb.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 113
other but separating from it again. These are shown in Figure
103 at A and B. The diagram shows very clearly the differences
in the two patterns. In the lowest :figure one is superimposed
upon the other in order to show the degree of their difference,
.the dotted line representing "Walter's" and the solid line
-Dr. ."X's".
WRIST MARKINGS
One of the wax impressions (Fig. 9) that was made when
"Walter" was attempting to reproduce his complete right hand
shows, in the lower left-hand corner, skin marks which appear
to have been produced by contact with the under side of the
wrist near the tip of the ulnar bone. These seem to be quite
characteristic, and as we have another instance of the same
phenomenon in one of the Lodge prints,56
we compared the two
waxes and found that the texture was quite different, showing
that while these two prints were both made supernormally and
through the same mediumship, yet these skin markings show
differences. ·whether those on the Lodge waxes actually agree
'with Sir Oliver's skin markings, we do not know.
In order to make further comparison, we took wax impres-
sions of the right and left wrists of both "Margery" and Dr.
''X'' and have examined all of these carefully under the micro-
scope, and they all show decidedly different characteristics.
vVe are showing photographs (Fig. 104) of an area from
the right wrists of "Margery" and Dr. "X" and the wrist
marks (presumably of the right hands) on the prints of Sir
Oliver Lodge and "vValter." The free surface of the epidermis
is marked by a network of linear furrows of variable size divid-
ing it into a number of polygonal areas.57
These may be seen to show distinct differences of struc-
ture and none of them is the same as any other. This is another
indication that the pattern of the "\iValter" skin is not like
that of any of the others.
The impressions due to the hairs are clearly shown and
microscopic examination and measurement indicate consider-
56 Journal A.S.P.R., March 1932.
57 Gmy's Anatom.y, 21st Edition.
114 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
able difference in the width of these in the three cases studied,
namely, those of Sir Oliver Lodge, "Walter" and Dr. "X."
This detailed comparison of the hands of "Margery," Dr.
"X" and "Walter," which has quite completely covered both
major and minor differences in palms and fingers and which,
in the case of cores, deltas, scars, creases and joint lines, re-
lated only to "Walter" and Dr. "X," ("Margery's" charac-
teristics being so markedly different that such comparisons are
superfluous), quite clearly indicates dissimilarities which can
not be explained on any reasonable basis other than that the
impressions are those of entirely different hands. .
There is one point which should not be lost sight of in con-
nection with these waxes, and that is that under high magni-
fication the surface texture of all the supernormally produced
prints is of a distinctly different appearance from that of the
normally made impressions. This is apparent to some extent
in the microphotograph (Fig. 9'9) which appears on page 109.
In order to be able to note these surface differences the
waxes should be freshly impressed, so that they may be exam-
ined before oxidation has had a chance to take place or the
surfaces to dry out to any great degree, and they should be
very carefully handled to avoid the soiling and wearing down
of these surfaces. Almost all the older waxes have suffered
from these conditions.
In investigation of psychic phenomena the utmost effort
should be directed toward a sufficient repetition of the phe-
nomena to afford a basis for a qualitative analysis, if not for a
quantitative one.
In the case of these waxes we have done something approach-
ing this, and a careful examination of all the waxes involved
establishes the fact that the surface texture of the "Walter"
prints is decidedly different from that of the waxes normally
impressed by "Margery" and by Dr. "X."
Often, to the unaided eye, differences in sharpness of detail
are noticeable between the impressions supernormally made and
the others. While this is only a minor point, it lends additional
weight to other evidence that tends to substantiate the claim
that the "Walter" waxes were supernormally produced.
----
A ---.;~......_
---- ...
- ............... .,.
----------- ----------
"W"
B
c ----
--~
.. --
- "')-..,
__;;___ M
-i&
·----=--c--
"W " UX"
.SUP E RPOSED ON
JOINT LINES OF RIGHT THUMB
FIGURE 103.
Diagrams showing main differences in the j oint lines of the right thumbs of
"Walter " and Dr. " X " · Notice that the " Walter" j oint line is bifurcated, while
that of Dr. " X " consists of two lines which are tangent. There is also considerable
difference in size, which may be noted in the lower diagram.
FIGURE 104.
A somewhat enlarged photograph of the skin markings on the wrists of "Margery" and Dr. "X". The two central views
show what are supposed to be the same areas of Sir Oliver Lodge's wrist and "l;valter's" both obtained supernormally.
Notice that the structure is quite different in all four, as well as the size of the hair and the quantity of it.
XVIII
CERTAIN CRITICISMS
Briefly reviewing our discussion, we have presented in
detail the "Walter" standard hands and shown the extent
of their agreement with the old paraffin gloves and the wax
impressions, and have considered points of similarity and dif-
ference in the hands of "Margery," "Walter" and Dr. "X. " 58
Before we present our summary and conclusions we wish to
consider the major points raised by the critics of these phe-
nomena. As we have already said, these have related chiefly
to the similarity of the papillary ridge design of the "\iValter"
thumb impressions to those of "Margery" and Dr. "X," and
especially their close resemblance to those of the latter.
It seems hardly necessary to go into much further detail
to show that in most cases the critics have been ignorant of
the facts, or if they were acquainted with them, appear to
have been quite arbitrary in their interpretations, to say
nothing of the contradictory statements which have in some
instances been made.
First in this connection we shall take up the report submitted
by Mr. Bell on the thumb of the plaster cast.
During the fall of 1931 Mr. Bell, former :finger print expert
of Scotland Yard, sent a report 58
a to Lime Street "on the iden-
tity of the alleged supernormal '·walter' print on the plaster
cast of May 17, 1924" (Fig. 105) to the effect that this print
is, in fact, identical with the imprint of "Margery's" right
thumb and does not agree with the "well-known '\iValter' print."
In this connection, special reference was made to a photo-
graphic copy of the latter bearing the date of February 3, 1927,
appearing on page 700 of the J oumal for December, 1928.
This criticism of Mr. Bell's was presented in connection
ss Appendix XIX: Wentworth's statement on hands.
ssa Appendb: XX: Bell's report on cast of thumb.
115
116 lVIARGERY l\IIEDIUl\IISHIP
with the Sir Oliver Lodge prints, upon the identity of which
he had already affirmatively reported, although just why he at
this time brought up the subject of the plaster cast, which had
no bearing on the Lodge prints, is not apparent, unless he
wished to intimate that since (according to his opinion) the
plaster cast was not what it was represented to be, there was
no reason to suppose that the Lodge prints were any more
genuine. However, at the time little attention was paid to this
criticism, although Mr. Dudley intended to reply to it, and con-
sequently took this cast and the photographs prepared by Mr.
Bell, none of which the writer had ever seen, to use in con-
nection with his proposed reply, leaving a signed memoran-
dum to that effect, dated December 29, 1931, as has already
been mentioned, page 33.
Some years ago Mr. Dudley wrote an article on this plaster
cast of May 17, 1924, which appeared in the Journal of the
Society50
with a photograph of the thumb only, which showed
the pattern more or less well. In tllis article he says, speaking
of the persistence of finger-print pattems: "\Nhile on the sub-
ject of the persistence of these patterns let us not overlook
the fact that this ,-Walter' finger-print pattern is also persistent
in its supernormal aspects. It has persisted as a unique pat-
tern through more than two years, mean·while undergoing all
the vicissitudes of changes from negative to positive and
through partial reversals into the mirror negative and mirror
J.)ositive categories until, if it were not an ideoplastic structure
it would seem that it must certainly have been changed beyond
the possibility of recognition. But the pattem has persisted
much longer than this, for, as noted in om February instan-
ment and in Mr. Fife's general report, above, it is this same
pattern which is found on the thumb of the plaster cast of tho
paraffin glove of May 17, 1924. V.,Te present herewith a photo-
graph of the bulb of this thumb sufficiently enlarged so as to
make it an easy matter to recognize the essential similarity
of the characteristic core and its surrounding ridges to the
sn Psychic Research, December, 1928, p. 704, Dudley and Bhd 's article on
plaster cast.
FIGURE 105.
The palmar surface of the plaster cast made from the paraffin glove of May 17,
1924. This was made by Mr. Kuntz from the original negative which he took and
shows some fine detail. The ridge design of t he thumb has since been obliterated.
lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 117
corresponding pattern of the Walter positive prints in wax. An
examination of the photograph in question and of the original
plaster reveals much of interest.
''The print on the plaster is very complete down to a certain
point, ·where paraffin appears to have flowed into the thumb;
but below this main print another print has taken form. This
lower print is apparently of an earlier period than the com-
plete print, but it, too, is a normal positive. The lines of this
second print are deformed at the right, as one looks at the
photograph, arid in this area a more careful study of the photo-
graph and of the original plaster reveals a third partial thumb
print. This last is of the same general pattern; and in so
far as its lines can be be followed it appears to be a mirror-
reversed print. These subsidiary prints do not show as clearly
on the photograph as on the plaster original, and we fear that
they may be even less evident on the engraving. In such event,
the plaster cast remains as evidence of the validity of what
we have just said.
"In any case, the presence of these prints lends extreme
renewed interest to an aspect of the Margery mediumship which,
as Mr. Bird has said in print, has heretofore been made much
of by the hostile critics and in behalf of which the medium's
defenders have been unable to present much more than an
apology. The plaster cast of this hand has been in Dr. Cran-
don's custody since it was obtained, but its anatomical imper-
fections and those introduced into it by the ineffective casting
certainly so mark it as to make substitution theories ridiculous;
and no one who examines the print now found on the thumb
will suggest that it has been added since 1924. Accordingly
it now becomes necessary to add, to the hypothesis of fraud
covering the Margery mediumship, the very quaint notion that
the present thumb-print sequence has in all its details been
present in the medium's mind since May, 1924, and that she
has waited until the middle of 1926 to start it on its way. This,
of course, in addition to all the physical evidence of genuineness
which this sequence presents when viewed on physical grounds
alone.
118 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
''The discovery of these prints on the 1924 hand confirms
the ideoplastic process in a remarkable manner. It also indi-
cated, in view of the details just now catalogued, that the hand
was the product of a trial-and-error method, and that some of
the errors left their traces in the ·wax. That we have here a
very respectable degree of evidence that we are now able to
get, on demand, through the Margery mediumship, finger prints
of a man who died in 1911, seems a conservative enough
summary of the present paper. Galton, ·with true scientific
caution, limited the life of finger prints to the period
of existence of the flesh in which they were formed. The evi-
dence now being collected, a portion of which has been presented
in this article, indicates that the true measure of persistence
may lie in the period through which the mind or personality
persists and maintains its ability to function ideoplastically in
the three-dimensional world of our present physical existence.''
As may be seen from the foregoing, this cast was recog11ized
by Mr. Dudley and others as belonging to the "vValter" series,
but to the best of the writer's knowledge Mr. Dudley has never
made reply to Mr. Bell's criticism, although the conclusions
of the latter were quite different from his own.
Since, as we have previously stated in this report, it is
unmistakably evident that some of the ridges on this cast, in-
cluding the core, have been obliterated at some time since the
original photograph was made and before it came into our
possession, we were unable to make a careful microscopic ex-
amination of its structure and markings, and ·we can not, there-
fore, state definitely whether it bore a "\Valter" or ·a "Mar-
gery'' print, but that it was of the ulnar loop type there is
little doubt and on this point all seem to agree.
Furthermore, since Mr. Bell's report was to the effect that
the plaster cast imprint and the right thumb of "Margery"
show great similarity, and since ·we know that the "Margery"
right thumb is not only of the ulnar loop type but also has
a staple at the core, it would indicate quite clearly, as our
examination of the photograph does, that the cast also originally
had a staple at its core.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 119
And we know, moreover, that if this were actually a '' vVal-
ter" print it might quite naturally be similar to "Margery's"
because of their relationship as brother and sister. That such
relationship is shown by finger markings is evident from the
statements of such authorities as H. H. Newman60
of Hull Zoo-
logical Laboratory, University of Chicago; Kristine Bonnevie,61
University of Oslo; H . H. \iVilder62
of Smith College; Francis
Galton°3
and others.
But while we have imprints of the right thumb of the medium
"Margery" and know its various characteristics, we have had
nothing but a photograph of the cast, which was poor at best,
for comparison, so we can not decide this point.
Moreover, since we are considering a supernormal phe-
nomenon, we must take into consideration a curious situation
which has arisen and is likely to arise again in the production
of waxes and casts, one which could not possibly occur if they
were made by normal human contact. That is the fact that
there are times when some characteristic or characteristics
of the medium's fingers are found in these wax impressions.
· vVe have already made mention of this. \iVe are not offering
.any explanation as to the process by which it happens, but that
it does happen is evident, and we feel that this fact should be
called to the reader's attention because of the supernormality
involved, since this tendency might easily account for the simi-
larity of which Mr. Bell makes so great a point.
We have already indicated in this report, in our study of
the photograph of this plaster cast, that the thumb still shows
some indications of being a "VValter" right. It is of the ulnar
loop type and the core is much nearer to the angle of the ''Wal-
ter" core, relative to the joint line, than it is to "Margery's."
In order to try to obtain unprejudiced consideration of this
point ·we took the matter up with Mr. Bert vVentworth, the
ao H. H. Newman, '' Stuclies in Human Twins'', B ·iol. B1tll., LV.
s1 Kristine Bonuevie, "Stuclies on t he Papillary Pattern of Human Fingers",
J01!1'nal of Genetics, XV.
62 H. H. Wilder, "Duplicate Twins and Doublet Monsters ", A 11W?', J ou1·nal
.Anat., III.
"Palm aud Sole Studies", Biol. B~tll., XXX.
63 Francis Galton, Finge1· P1·ints, London, 1892.
120 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Dean of :finger-print experts in this country, to obtain his opin-
ion. In his report 64
Mr. ·wentworth states very definitely that
this cast does not belong to either "Margery," "Walter," or
Dr. "X," basing his conclusions on prints which he himself took
of the thumbs of "Margery" and Dr. "X" and an examination
of the impressions in wax of the "Walter" hands.
Mr. Wentworth states that this photograph of the cast is
a miserable thing to work with, and we agree with him. How-
ever, here are the opinions of three qualified experts, no two
of whom agree, for Mr. Fife says in his report,65
as published
in the Journal in Mr. Dudley's article, that this particular thumb
agrees with a typical "vValter" wax impression.
Mr. Bell, in his report, stated very definitely that the thumb
of this plaster cast agrees with "Margery's" right thumb and,
in proof of this, furnished photographs of both showing eigh-
teen skin ridge characteristics which are in agreement (Fig.
106).
Mr. Wentworth, on the other hand, states that this pattern
is unlike that of either "Margery," "Walter" or Dr. "X."
Therefore, with the evidence which the cast bore destroyed and
three-finger-print experts differing in their opinions, we can
not arrive at any definite conclusion. All we may do is to point
out some of the features which seem to indicate that it was
at least an attempt at a "Walter" thumb, viz: It is of the
ulnar loop type with considerable indication that it had a staple
at the core; the ridge count is high (as it is in the cases of all
three, "Margery," "Walter" and Dr. "X"); the shape of the
tip of the core is very close to that of the "Walter" riglit thumb
and much like that of "Margery's," while the slant of the
core is ·steeper than hers and more like "Walter's." The
general shape of the pattern area of the thumb is more like
that of "Walter" than that of "Margery," although smaller
than either. In fact, the thumb, as well as the entire cast of
which it is a part, appears somewhat smaller than our standard
"Walter" hand although the :finger lengths are about the same.
01 Appendix XXI: Wentworth's report on cast of thumb.
05 Appendix XXII : Fife's report on cast of thumb.
v:l lr:"l'•'f'·• (' (. ...~:~ ·t<- (
1
•·'~if II,.~.. 11,.
:,. .:/(, l ,.':Jj,,
I
~'r,,.,lltd jd.n/;yta;J.1c/.ljJd' ,;~;u>v
Pit JlrnCI ra.d' c(/'-"(/"'-'" ;1Lmt< 1'1"'Y trp If-
\ :z 3 4- ,
lb
b-
2
FIGURE 106.
b
'/If
1
/0
1/
12
,.,
/f.,r;,srr>pAw er.l""'l'm'n< tfan ,·'"f~J oj
tt~ ''r''
t'f
II
,,..(. .t.f /,' ·J tli I
3
b
\
Ill-
I?
-·-. •• .
-q
· ;~,.
;~~
"'"
; !0
'.r
/12
\,
Three photographs used by Mr. Bell in his report on the plaster cast. Note that he has reversed the photogr·aph of the cast
(No. 2) in order to make the comparison easier.
..........
l\IIARGERY l\IIEDIUl\IISHIP 121
This may be due to shrinkage of the paraffin, as well as to the
partial collapse of the glove before the casting was made. Mr.
Bell found eighteen characteristics in agreement with the ''Mar-
gery" right thumb, which is not surprising when we keep in
mind that this is a supernormal phenomenon and is, therefore,
much more flexible than might be evident without close study.
Dr. Bonnevie shows that in the cases of thirty pairs of hands
of brothers and sisters the correlation \vas quite indicative,66
although not nearly so high as in cases of identical twins.66
a
Mr. Bell appeared to appreciate the fact that this photo-
graph was of a cast in relief, ·whereas Mr. vVentworth seemed
to quest~on its orientation.
Furthermore, Mr. Bell presumably used for comparison the
photograph of the "vValter" print made on February 3, 1927.1
n
This appears to be the same impression which Mr. Dudley is
using and claiming to be that of Dr. "X," as we shall later see.
We claim that this is not a true "Walter" negative print, and
that it may be either a "vValter" partial negative, such as
we have already discussed, or one of the impressions which
were made by Dr. "X." In either case Mr. Bell would be quite
right in saying the cast did not agree with it.
In March, 1932, in a letter to the American Society for Psy-
chical Research, Mr. E. ID. Dudley claimed to have discovered
that the so-called "Walter" thumb prints were none other than
those of Dr. "X," "Margery's" dentist, to whom we have
already referred, and attempted to substantiate this claim by
an exhibit in which are shown two photographs of what are
purported to be wax prints of the "\iValter" right and left
thumbs, arranged for comparison beside those of ink prints
of Dr. "X's" right and left thumbs (Fig. 107). In other words,
Mr. Dudley, who until recently has had opportunity to examine
all the "vValter" :finger prints that have been produced, who
was present when a large number of them were produced and
oa Bonnevie ''Studies on Papillary Pattems of Human Fingers'', J ou?'nal of
Genetics, 1924-25..
aaa H. H. Newman, "Finger Prints of Twins", Jom·nal of Genet·ics, Vol.
XXXIII, No. 3, Dec. 1930.
67 Psychic Research, April, 1928, p. 201 and December, 1928, p. 700. \;\/'ax of
2-3-27.
122 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
in a sense acted as curator of the collection, and who had sup-
posedly made a careful study of all of them, and wrote exten-
sively about them, has come to the conclusion that these prints
are those of this dentist.*
It seems rather strange, in view of all his years of close
connection with the case, that this supposed identity should
not have been discovered sooner, especially since on very good
evidence Mr. Dudley had in his possession the very impressions
which Dr. "X" made of his own thumbs previous to the appear-
ance of any "Walter" waxes.
The question raised by this claim at the time it was made,
if we understood it, was merely one of identity and in, no way
related to the genuineness of the phenomena, but some recent
articles interpret the Dudley claim as proving fraudulent pro-
duction. A most important preliminary inquiry in this investi-
gation is, of course, as to the authenticity of the impressions
used in the comparison.
The photographs of the "Walter" thumbs which have been
used by Mr. Dudley in his exhibit to support his contention
have been given very careful study, but the waxes from which
these photographs were made have not been available for our
examination. They have completely disappeared so far as we
know. In the photographs the wax bearing the print of the
right thumb, Fig. 81c, is dated February 3, 1927, and the wax
carrying the left thumb impression (Fig. 107a) bears the
date of August 23, 1927, and has a "2" marked on it. These
two photographs are apparently those from which illustrations
were made for use in the Journal of the American Society for
Psychical Research.68 They will be discussed later.
* The extent to which Mr. Dudley was involved in the experiments which produced
the finger impressions is indicated in the following extrac.t from an article written
by Mr. Dudley himself in collaboration with ;r, Malcolm Bird in the ;fournal of the
A.S.P.R. for December, 1928, p. 693:
"and particularly he (Mr. Fife) has been very patient and helpful with Mr.
Dudley in connection with the latter's efforts to attain some degree of mastery of
the dactylographic problems of the case. Since approximately the date mentioned
just above (i.e. March 1927) these two have been regarded as having complete
charge from the normal side of the thumb-print sequence and the work done
thereon. "-Editor.
as Psychic Research, April, 1928, p. 201, and October, 1928, p. 564. Wax of
2-3-27 and 8-23-27.
F IGURE 107.
Mr. Dudley 's exhibit of the Tight and left thumbs, supposedly of Dr. ' 'X'' ani!
'' WalteT' ', with numerous points of identity indicated. \Ve have deleted Dr.
''X 's'' 1·eal name, with which one pTint was labelled.
FIGURE 107A .
Left thumb of Mr. Dudley's exhibit.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 123
It is interesting to note that most of the literature describ-
ing, classifying and discussing these wax finger impressions of
"Walter," appears to have been prepared and written by Mr.
E. E. Dudley himself, who, judging from his articles and sig-
nature on numerous sets of finger prints which he has made
in the usual manner, considers himself a finger print expert.
At this point let us emphasize the fact that neither Dr.
Crandon nor Dr. Richardson claims to know anything at all
about the art of the finger-print expert. We are certain, after
long contact with them, that neither one would attempt to
identify a "Walter" print from any other, having in the past
left this matter entirely to Mr. Dudley. ·while Mr. Fife has
examined many of the waxes, it was always Mr. Dudley who
was in charge of preparations for the seances and of the prints
which were obtained, and it was he who made the ultimate
identifications and prepared the reports for publication.
An investigation of a matter such as this requires more
than the mere identification of two or more thumb print patterns
by the methods of classification ordinarily employed.
vVe know that there are many qualified persons who are
thoroughly familiar with the taking of finger prints and with
the interpretation and classification of ink (or similar) prints
such as are used in criminal and other identification systems.
These experts, if shown two ordinaioy normal finger prints and
asked whether or not they are identical, would give a definite
answer, one way or the other, almost immediately; and if they
were shown photographs of prints that were three-dimensional
they would undoubtedly still be willing to express an opinion,
naturally assuming that such prints had been made by pressing
a thumb or finger into some plastic, thereby producing a nega-
tive. But if they were told that some of the three-dimensional
prints were positive impressions (in other words, were in relief)
they would naturally become suspicious and probably skeptical
and begin to question the procedure; and if in addition they
were told that some were mirror prints, either positive or nega-
tive, they would certainly be puzzled, if not incredulous, and
want to know how they were made before expressing an opinion
124 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
on identity. Mr. Dudley, writing in the manuscript Proceed-
ings, indicates the finger-print expert's attitude as follows:
''Normal finger prints are substantially constant as to pat-
tern and the relationships of their minutire; hence an identifi-
cation can be established if comparatively few of the minutire
in the print under examination are related in exactly the same
manner as in the record print. . . It has also been stated
that some of the Walter prints already described, and others
of later date, show marked variations from the norm in one
or another part of the imprinted area, variations which are
not, apparently, a function of differences in pressure or the
angle at which the digit contacts the wax, nor of changes in
the plasticity of the imprinted substance.
''The invariability of normal finger prints is so firmly estab-
lished that it is only natural that the practical finger-print ex-
pert, trained to deal with such prints, should tend to look
askance at any exhibits which behave in such an unorthodox
fashion as do some of these Walter prints, assuming, no doubt~
that the variations had been introd~tced mechanically.* How-
ever, in these variant forms of a basic pattern there is recorded
one of the chief characteristics of the structures which pro-
duce them: the extreme mobility of a substance that is appar-
ently of organic origin, and, even in its larger aspects, seems
to possess the power to change its form as rapidly as do some
of the lowest forms of life-the single-cell animalculre. ''
Elsewhere in the same manuscript Mr. Dudley writes:
''So invariable are these patterns as to their minutiae that
the finger-print expert would be loth to believe that a print
could have ten or twelve perfectly definite characteristics which
correspond exactly with another print and yet have as many as
two equally well-defined elements which did not so correspond.
If faced with such a problem he might either refuse to make an
identification or else insist that the latter minutiae must be
accidents of impression. This attitude on the part of the experts
is a perfectly logical one, and is based on the careful study of
normal finger-print records for more than fifty years. Just
* Italics are the writer's.
MARGERY MEDlUMSHIP 125
how it may affect the evidence derived from a study of super-
normal prints is yet to be determined.''
vVe appreciate the skill and competence of the finger-print
experts in the ordinary field of their vwrk, but to practically
all of them problems arising out of the supernormal produc-
tion of prints would come as something entirely nevv and beyond
the limits of their training and experience. As to such prob-
lems they can have no claim to be experts.
Indeed, it is not too much to say that to all but a very limited
number of persons who happen to have had the occasion or
opportunity to study the phenomena of supernormal prints,
the subject is a veritable terra incognita. There are no ex-
perts in it. Quite obviously, therefore, the opinion of conven-
tional finger-print experts in this subject cannot be given weight
or authority beyond that of others, and certainly cannot be
accepted as :final or conclusive. Mr. Dudley, however, seems
now to think otherwise.
There are, however, quite a number of persons of the highest
standing on the faculties of our universities working along bio-
logical and anthropological lines who have given much time
to the study of finger and palm prints in connection with the
study of the characteristics of identical twins and similar human
and animal relationships, who thoroughly understand derma-
toglyphics, or the subject of skin markings, not merely for
the purpose of classification but for use in biological research,
and who are very familiar ·with skin structure. Moreover,
they have developed scientific methods of measurement and of
making impressions superior, for their purpose, to those gener-
ally in use in police practice.
But even this group of scientists who have made derma-
toglyphics a specialty, have confined their researches to normal
skin, both human and animal, and we know of no one among
them whose experience has included the study of teleplasmic
structures. Any student undertaking work in this :field of
supernormal manifestations must face and if possible overcome
the handicap that he is under as a pioneer breaking new ground,
with little of value in the work of others to guide him. Skill
126 l\1ARGERY l\1EDIUlVISHIP
in the field of normal dermatoglyphics is certainly of great value
to the student of the dermatoglyphics of supernormal struc-
tures, but knowledge and skill in the former cannot be blindly
transferred and applied to problems in the latter field. To do
this would be to assure, not avoid, error. Variable factors of
almost ·wholly unknown nature, range and effect enter into the
production of these teleplasms and affect or condition their
use and operation by the directing intelligence in ways that
we as yet but dimly sense, much less understand. These factors
must be taken into account by any serious investigator of the
subject and until a scientist, whether in the field of biology,
determatoglyphics or police .identification work, has, by actual
study of the teleplasms and their manifestations, become some-
what familiar with, if not master of the pertinent facts, his
opinion on particular problems is rather irrelevant.
Obviously, furthermore, the opinion of one who denies the
existence of teleplasmic structures can hardly be valuable upon
a problem that arises in respect to the physical effects produced
by the supernormal structure, e.g., impressions in plastic wax.
Such a person will, of course, attribute the phenomena to normal
production and will quite readily classify the claim of tele-
plasmic production as fraud. · Science cannot pause for the
laggards. It must go forward and leave them to debate among
themselves.
We are satisfied that any reliable finger-print expert, if
given the exhibit prepared by Mr. Dudley of the Dr. "X"
and the two so-called "Walter" prints, would reach the
opinion expressed by Sergeant J. Warren Toelken of the State
Police of Massachusetts and Frederick E. Zwirz, Acting Cap-
tain in charge of Criminal Identification in the New York City
Police Department, namely: that they are identical. We agree
that the two left thumbs shown in Mr. Dudley's exhibit are iden-
tical and see no reason why they should not be, for since the pho-
tograph of the alleged "Walter" print is not in agreement with
what we have shown to be the standard "Walter" left thumb,
it naturally does not belong to the authentic "vValter" group,
and may well be that of Dr. "X." As to the right thumb prints
lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 127
shown in Mr. Dudley's exhibit, we agree that they are extraor-
dinarily alike, but the reader who has followed our analysis
of these impressions, especially our comparison of the "Wal-
ter" and Dr. "X" right thumbs, will probably see that this
similarity may be only apparent-not real. To be sure, we
have not had a chance to study the actual impressions shown
in Mr. Dudley's exhibit and photographs are a poor substitute
for the waxes and actual impression for such purpose, but we
have presented the details of similar imt)ressions in our own
possession and have indicated a degree of major and minor
difference which is sufficient to show that they are not identical.
Insofar as Mr. Dudley's photographic exhibit is concerned,
we would call attention in the :first place to the fact that he is
comparing ink prints with impressions in wax, a proceeding
which ordinarily would not be difficult, but whi@h in the case
of supernormal impressions is far from satisfactory, since
these contain not only normal irregularities but supernormal
differences which can not easily be accounted for and involve
consideration of the variable factors above referred to. Such
variations in these prints have frequently been commented upon
by Mr. Dudley and others in the Journal.
Further, the ink prints which Mr. Dudley uses to illustrate
the patterns of Dr. "X's" thumbs are not particularly well
made and do not include a sufficient area around the delta; and
as for the developed latent prints, they are quite unnecessary
in this instance and add no value to the argument, although
later we shall call attention to one feature of interest which
they contain.
It will be apparent to anyone familiar with the genesis and
development of the :finger-print phenomena in this case, that
producing in the seances prints of a living person has in fact
·been part of the program of experimentation. The production
of the Sir Oliver Lodge prints followed an inquiry by the writer
to "Walter" as to whether he could produce prints of living
persons who were unknown to the medium or any of her circle,
and experiments to test that possibility were under way when
Mr. Dudley announced his alleged discovery. It must be con-
128 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ceded, therefore, on the basis of past experience that the super-
normal production of Dr. "X's" prints as part of a definite
experiment having that result in mind, is not a novel idea.
Of course, "Walter" might have produced these Dr. "X"
impressions, for he has made many thumb prints of living per-
sons as has been stated, and has not always said at the time
to whom they belonged. In one instance it was several months
before we were informed by "Walter" whose print it was that
appeared on a certain wax. And there are still prints, obvi-
ously not of the "Walter" fingers, as to the identity of which
we are ignorant. However, there does not seem to be any
evidence in the records which are available 69 that "Walter"
made any unidentified prints on the dates which these waxes
that Mr. Dudley uses bear, and, moreover, he is emphatic in
his statement that he has never made Dr. "X's" prints, and
that the prints he calls his are his.
Another possibility is that these disputed waxes may have
been artificially made. The hypothesis that the medium or her
friends made or procured a few artificial duplicates of a normal
impression, is wholly unsupported by any evidence and con-
trary to all the probabilities. No understandable motive for
such an erratic procedure can be reasonably imagined, and if
these disputed waxes are artificially made duplicates of Dr.
"X's" print, their source must be sought elsewhere than at
Lime Street.
While it is not the purpose of this report to deal with the
artificial duplication of waxes, we would say that enough in-
vestigation has been carried on by us in this line to convince
us that it is quite possible to make artificially both two-dimen-
sional and three-dimensional impressions exact enough so that,
in some cases at least, they might be taken for genuine finger
prints.
Mr. Dudley has a technique by which he can make duplicate
wax prints in three dimensions. In fact at one time he prepared
a number of such .prints and submitted them together with a
number of genuine ones to Mr. Button with the request that he
eu Appendix XXIII: Minutes of meetings of 2-3-27 and 8-23-27.
J
....
MARGERY JVIEDIUJVISHIP 129
should submit them to a fingerprint expert to determine whether
such expert could distinguish the duplicates from the originals.
Mr. Button submitted them to Mr. Fife who, in this instance,
was able to detect the genuine waxes from the counterfeits
within a few moments. In Bulletin XIX of the B. S. P. R.60
a
mention is made of impressions so made.
Many finger-print experts claim that it is not possible to
make artificial prints which could not be detected; but, on the
,other hand, we have letters from a number of well known per·
sons ·who claim that it is, or may be, possible to so make them.
'lve r efer below to several printed articles on the subject.70
Some of the waxes shown in Figure 4 were artifically made.
Finally, if these disputed waxes are normal negatives as
is claimed, may they in fact not be those which were made by
Dr. "X" long ago ·when he -vvas showing "Margery" how Kerr
-
could be used in her seances1
\Ve wish to reiterate that Dr. "X," "Margery's" dentist,
who had been a frequent observer of the phenomena at Lime
Street although he had not attended the seances for some years,
was the first person to suggest the use of Kerr and that he
demonstrated to ''Margery,'' on July 30, 1926, the manner in
which thumb impressions might be made in it by making some
of his own,''' which "Margery" took with her when she left his
office.71
Upon returning home enthusiastic over the possibili-
ties of this new material, she talked the matter over with Dr.
E. W. Brown, whom she found at the house attending her
6Da Bulletin XI X, Boston S.P.R., p. 44.
70 Albert Wehde and John N . Beffel, Finge?· P1·ints Can Be F01·ged.
Ames on Forge1·y.
Osbo?·n on Q11.estioned Doc1tments.
Osborn, The P1·oblem. of P?·oof in Dispnted Dowment Trials.
Hagan on D·isp1tted Handw?·iUng.
·x· w e have a signed statement from Dr. ''X'' to the effect that t he only wax
impressions· ever made of his thumbs 01· :fingers were those he macle on the above-
mentioned date and those made for the writer within the last few months.
F urther, in an attempt to determine whether waxes made on Ol' near the dates
on which ''Margery '' had appointments at her c1entist's differed in any degree
from those made at other times,. the writer checked the· dates of the dental appoint-
ments with the seance dates anc1 found that there were no differences in the
impressions which could be interpreted as being due to any special mental influ-
ence on the part of the medium at such times.
11 Dr. "X 's" dental appointment book shows "Margery" at his office on
July 30, 1926.
130 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
mother who was ill, and his wife. Since he was familiar with
the phenomena, "Margery" showed him the waxes and dis·
cussed the matter with him, and with Mr. Dudley who was also
at the house. These normal negative wax impressions of Dr.
"X" were given to Mr. Dudley. ·when it was time to leave,
Mr. ·wendell P. Murray, a lawyer, who was also present, and
Dr. Brown drove Mr. Dudley to his home, and both men dis-
tinctly recall that Mr. Dudley took the waxes with him. Of
what became of them after this, there is no record, but appar-
ently they were never returned to Lime Street. Since Mr.
Dudley had these Dr. "X" waxes in his possesion before any
"vValter" prints appeared, we fail to see why he should not
long ago have noticed the similarity to which he is calling
attention as a discovery made in March 1932, and consider that
there is abundant reason to believe that the original Dr. "X"
impressions may have been confused with authentic seance room
waxes.
Let us consider a moment the wax Mr. Dudley is using to
show the print of the right thumb, that bearing the date of
February 3, 1927. This wax was evidently one of those he
brought to the writer to be photographed in the group previ-
ously mentioned. In the group (Fig. 43) it is marked No. 11
and may be seen in the upper row, the only difference being
that the date appears twice on our illustration, once at the
top as shown in Mr. Dudley's photograph, and also again below
the joint line, the writer having added the latter at the time
he made the group photograph for the purpose of better iden-
tification. The outline of this wax, as shown in this group
picture, appears to check with that shown in Mr. Dudley's
exhibit.
In this group there are two other waxes which bear the same
date (February 3, 19'27) namely No. 9 and No. 10, so that there
were at least three waxes marked with that date. In the manu-
script Proceedings Mr. Dudley specifies that three waxes were
obtained on this evening. The first (No. 9 in the group) is,
according to him, a positive; this wax we have already dis-
cussed. The third and last made on this date (No. 10 in this
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 131
group) is listed as a normal negative, and in the manuscript
Proceedings Mr. Dudley spends considerable time on a dis-
cussion of its peculiarities, as the writer also has done in this
report (see page 50) showing that as a normal negative it
would give a normal positive with a staple at the core. Just
why Mr. Dudley should have picked out No. 11 for use as a
standard negative when this other wax, No. 10, produced on
the same evening, showed a different core pattern, we fail to
see. vVe realize that his photograph of No. 11 shows very fine
detail, but the upper part of the core of No. 10 likewise shows
excellent detail. There is, of course, a possibility that this
wax (No. 11) might come under the classification of a partial
negative intaglio, a type of which we have already spoken in
discussing "Walter's" difficulty in making mirror prints (see
p. 67). This, howeve;r, can not be determined merely by ex-
amination of the photograph. It is possible that one of the
original impressions of Dr. "X's" right thumb may have be-
come confused ·with other prints and erroneously classed as a
seance room production.
Taking now Mr. Dudley's exhibit of left thumb impressions,
we do not know where the waxes he is using originated, but we
are led to believe that they are either some of the originals
that Dr. "X" made for "Margery" or else replicas made from
them. There is in our mind very little doubt that in some way
Dr. "X's" impressions have become mixed with those produced
at the seance of August 23, 1927. In the Journal 73
Mr. Dudley
specifically states that only three waxes were made on this
date and that all of these carried the same design, a fact attested
at the time by Mr. Fife, who was present, and that since they
were different from the usual "Walter" right thumb impres-
sion they were assumed to be impressions of "Walter's" left
thumb for which Mr. Fife had asked.
In the manuscript Proceedings which Mr. Dudley likewise
prepared, it is again stated that three waxes, bearing identical
impressions, were made on this date, and the one illustrated in
the Journal, which is the one he is now using in his comparison,
78 Psychic Research, February, 1928, p. 112.
132 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
could not have been one of these, if his statement made at the
time, that all three were identical, is true.
A scrutiny of the picture of the print which he is using and
which we assume he is calling a normal negative shows that
it does not agree with our standard "Walter" left thumb. It
happens, moreover, that we have in our possession two "Wal-
ter" negative left-thumb impressions, one marked 1 (Fig. 51)
and the other 3 (Fig. 52), both of which bear this same date,
August 23, 1927. The patterns on these are similar to each
Qther and agree also with our standard "Walter" left thumb,
but they do not agree with the impression Mr. Dudley is
exhibiting which also bears this date and which is clearly
marked 2. If these were the only waxes so dated, and
numbered consecutively from 1 to 3, even though 2 is dis-
similar from the others, the difference might be explained by
the possibility of one of Dr. "X's" original impressions having
become mixed in, but such is not the case. Mr. Dudley exhibits
a broken wax· showing an impression apparently similar to
his No. 2, which he and his collaborators claim to have received
from Mr. W. T. Hutchinson of Louisville, Ky., and which is said
by them to have been given to Mr. Hutchinson at his request nu
at the close of the seance at which it was produced. In the
photograph this shows no date and we do not know whether
or not it actually bears one. However, it does show the char-
acteristic crease of Dr. "X's" left thumb and also the round
scar due to suppuration. This, therefore, makes a fourth wax
ascribed to this date, in contradiction of the contemporaneous
record.
But now let us glance again at Figure 43, which shows the
group of seventy-five waxes. In this group we find two waxes,
numbers 47 and 48, both of which bear this same date, August
23, 1927. One of these carries a No. 2 and has all the other
characteristics which go to prove that it is the one which Mr.
Dudley is using for his comparison. So here are five waxes
ascribed to this date, although, as we have said, on the one
furnished by Mr. Hutchinson no date is indicated.
1sa B.S.P.R. Bull. XVIII.
MARGERY l\IIEDIUlVISHIP 133
How is it that there are four waxes bearing this date, three
of them marked consecutively 1, 2 and 3, the fourth one appar-
ently unnumbered ~ Our photograph of the latter is not suffi-
ciently clear in detail to show the pattern, although there arc
indications that it is of Dr. "X's" thumb. ·whether Mr. Dudley
has this particular wax, we do not lmo-vv, but we assume that
he has it in order to be able to account for three.
It certainly seems strange that the wax furnished by Mr.
Hutchinson should bear no date, while the one Mr. Dudley is
using and the other, ·which we assume he has, are dated. We
suppose this might be accounted for by the fact that he took
only two home with him (we presume he always did his mark-
ing in white ink or chalk at home, as he did not do it at Lime
Street), and that the third was not marked because Dr. Crandon,
as is claimed, had given it to Mr. Hutchinson. Or perhaps the
date was accidentally broken off, when the wax slwwn in the
illustration in the Bulletin was broken.72
a
However, it seems very curious that Dr. Crandon should
have given away to a practical stranger a new and unusual print,
supposedly the first one made of "\iValter's" left thumb. It
seems much more likely that he would have given away an
old one of the right thumb. Dr. Crandon wrote to Mr. Hutchin-
son asking him to relate what he could remember of this cir-
cumstance, and in his reply Mr. Hutchinson stated that he
thought it likely that Mr. Dudley gave him the wax.73
This is all very difficult to understand but, as we have said,
we have in our possession two waxes, shown in Figures 51
and 52, both of the '' vValter'' left thumb, which are identical
with our recently obtained left thumbs and both of which bear
the date in question, August 23, 19'2:7. \iVe do not know where
the third one is. It can not be claimed that the two waxes we
hold are not the originals, for the dates they bear were placed
on them by Mr. Dudley. In the course of time they were given
to Mr. Fife for further study and ·were kept by him in his safe
until he turned them over to the writer.
12a Bulletin XVIII, Boston S.P.R.
73 Appendix XXIV: Hutchinson letter to Dr. Crandon.
MARGERY 1\IIEDIUJ\IISHIP
.How is .Mr. Dudley going to account for these four waxes,
possibly :five, two of which we hold, four of which bear the
same date and three of which are numbered consecutively in
addition, date and numbers having been scratched into the sur-
faces of all four by Mr. Dudley himself, when in his own signed
articles he claims, in agreement with the contemporaneous
record, that only three were produced on this date~
That these dates and numbers were all printed by Mr. Dud-
ley there is no doubt, since we have many samples of his work;
but in proof of this we are appending a signed statement by
I\h. W. F. Ttuner/4
an expert examiner and photographer of
questioned documents, who attests that the printing is in Mr.
Dudley's hand.
Mr. Turner checked the :figures in the dates on the two left-
thumb impressions which we hold, shown in F igures 51 and 52,
against the same :figures similarly used on the two waxes which
appear in the group photograph (Fig. 43), and which have
been enlarged and shown in Figure 108; as well as figures on
numel'ous other waxes which his report indicates.
After Mr. Dudley's presentation to the American Society for
Psychical Research of his alleged discovery that the so-called
"Walter" thumb prints were actually those of "Margery's"
dentist, whom we have called Dr. "X," and before there had
been time to investigate the matter thoroughly,Ha he, in collabora-
tion with several others, published his :finding in Bulletin XVIII
of the Boston Society for Psychical Research. The editorial
preface to this Bulletin contained an excellent comment, as
follows: ''Psychical research is scientific in so far only as it
is governed by the recognized principles of all other species
of scientific inquiry. One of these recognized principles is
that every fact pertinent to an investigation must be taken into
account and given its due weight. To ignore demonstrated
facts or to gloss them over because of advocacy of a particular
theory is to commit treason against psychical research and
subject it to contempt."
11 Appendi_x XXV: Turner's 1·eport on lettering of dates.
11a Appendix XXVI: Preliminai'Y report. Thorogood-Fife-Adams.
FIGURE 108.
Enlarged view of waxes No. 47 ancl No. 48 shown in group photograph, Figure 43, which
were elated 8-23-'27 by Mr. Dudley. The two check marks were placed by Mr. Turner, hand-
writing expert, to indicate that the figures were made by the same person who elated the waxes
shown in Figmes 51 ancl 52.
MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 135
Had :Mr. Dudley's collaborators been governed by this spirit,
they might not have made the mistake of accepting unfounded
allegations for results of scientific investigation. And if they
had been familiar with .Mr. Dudley's ·writings on this subject,
they would have been aware that some statements in the Bul-
letin were contrary to facts claimed by him to have been estab-
lished during his connection with the Lime Street group.
·when Mr. Dudley makes the assertion that there is no clear
indication that the minutim of the ridge patterns in the plaster
casts and waxes were studied he is criticising only himself.
No one should know better than he \v'hat procedure was used
in the examination of these casts and waxes, since it was to
him that these details of the investigation were committed and
he it was who prepared the greater part of the subject matter
for publication.
However, these minutim do not assume any great importance
until some need of careful analysis arises such as has arisen
because of the claim as to identity.
Undoubtedly, in the early days of these phenomena, the
prints were not carefully studied. In the beginning no one of
the Lime Street group, including Mr. Dudley, had anything but.
the most elementary knowledge of finger-print science, and they
scarcely knew where to begin in a study of the prints. This
obvious lack of skill and knowledge is in itself a fact that must
weigh heavily against any theory that the group was engaged
in a confederacy of fraud to produce artificial prints. But by
the time enough of the prints had been obtained to form a
basis for comparison, Mr. Dudley had acquired a fairly ample
knowledge and skill in the subject and certainly devoted many
hours to a careful consideration of their details, a fact of which
he has often spoken to the writer, claiming that he alone knew
anything about this subject and that no ordinary finger-print
expert was competent to express an opinion. In view of this,
we fail to see why he should now be so willing to urge the
opinion of these experts as conclusive.
That he had not met Dr. "X" before the spring of 1932 is
of no consequence since, as we have already shown, he had in
136 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
his possession on the very day they were made the wax impres-
sions which Dr. "X" had made in demonstrating the adapta-
bility of Kerr for seance experiments.
Referring to Dr. "X's" surprise and perturbation when
he learned that ''approximate replicas of his right thumb print
had been well-distributed ·over the world as the prints of a
ghost's thumb,'' and that his reply to the question of what he
had done with the prints he had made in wax had been: "You
had better ask 'Margery'," Mr. Dudley parenthetically re-
marks: 75
"(An entry in the writer's record of the seance of
July 30, 1926-in the light of the above conversation-leads
him to believe that the wax prints may have been made about
that time, but the reason for this assumption cannot be given
without disclosing the maker's name. I-Iad the1·e been (J/n,y pre-
vious inti'rnation to the above effect these ink prints wo'uld have
been so2tght years ago.)'' ·~
It seems to us that actual possession of these very wax
impressions of Dr. ''X'' was sufficient intimation, and that
there was little excuse for not immediately checking the newly
obtained "Walter" prints against them. And it is ·dif-ficult to
believe that Mr. Dudley failed to compare them. Moreover,
Mr. Dudley, in the manuscript Proceedings, has recorded the
fact that Dr. "X" was the person who :first suggested the use
of Kerr and provided "Margery" with several pieces of it.
And when on that same evening the :first "vValter" right thumb
impressions were obtained they were found to be not negatives
but positives, which no living person could produce directly.
Because of the fact that Mr. Dudley had these negative im-
pressions of Dr. "X's" thumb, must we claim that by his tech-
nique he made these positives from them ~ Certainly not! For
while the core of the very first supernormal impressions can
not be accurately determined, those of later date can in general
be made out and the greater number of them have a staple at
the core, while a true Dr. "X" negative impression would
produce a positive 1vith a rod at the core.
75 Bulletin XVIII, Boston S.P .R., p. 3.
* Italics by the writer.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 137
Mr. Dudley says, further, that the examination of Dr. "X's"
ink prints in March, 1932, produced unexpected evidence of the
fact that they are identical with the seance room right and left
thumb prints of "Walter."
We have shown conclusively that, while there are many
points of similarity in the rl.ght thumbs which tend to make
them appear identical, especially if viewed in the photographs,
the dissimilarity of the left thumbs is apparent to the most
superficial observation.
'That the right thumbs and the left thumbs which Mr. Dudley
shows in his exhibits seem to check is of no particular moment,
for they may all be normal or artificially produced prints of
Dr. "X's" thumbs.
A statement is made that this comparative exhibit was shown
to Mr. Fife on March 30, 1932, and that he agreed that the iden-
tification was complete. There is no argument in this. As
we have already pointed out, any finger print expert would
agree. We, ourselves, agree in the case of the left thumbs shown,
and if we had only this exhibit for examination and knew noth-
ing of the details, we should probably agree as to the right
thumbs too.
In this exhibit Mr. Dudley shows for the right thumbs a
poor and incomplete ink impression of Dr. ''X's'' thumb against
a wax impression dated February 3, 1927, and has marked
some twenty-seven points of similarity. vVe have indicated that
this wax may be the product of any one of several processes,
but not having the wax, and giving Mr. Dudley the benefit of
the doubt, we would tend to class it, on the assumption that it
was supernormally produced by ''Walter,'' as one of the special
phases of the "Walter" negative impression shown in Figure
67 at page 66, and marked D. This, we believe, is what "Wal-
ter" often refers to as a "mirror-print." \iVe are not claiming
that it is a true mirror-print, but simply that it is mirrored with
regard to the slant of the lines.
We are showing an enlargement of the central part of a
negative print (Fig. 109) similar to this wax of February 3,
1927, and it may be seen that in this the ridge forms a loop
138 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
in the center but that the upper part of it is very narrow, being
actually somewhat lower in elevation, and showing a tendency
toward separation. This is a very good illustration of possible
incomplete reversal.
There are other points near the top of this core which differ
from those in Mr. Dudley's illustration.
In no case, so far as we know, has he made a comparison of
the deltas of the "Walter" and the Dr. "X" thumbs; in fact,
the area of the delta of Dr. "X's" thumb is not shown in the
print.
In the case of the left thumb exhibit, here again the ink-
print of Dr. "X's" thumb is no more complete than is that
of the right thumb, and it is compared with an undated negative
impression in wax, although in the original exhibit, which we
have already discussed, this wax carried the date of August
23, 1927.
Between these two left thumbs are shown some twenty-four
points of agreement, and some of the creases and scars are
identical.
There is, however, one crease or scar across Dr. ''X's'' thumb
at the core, a little below .the tip, which does not show in this
ink print or in any of these wax impressions, so far as we can
determine, but which does show in all the impressions we have
made directly from Dr. "X's" thumb both in wax and in ink.
This shows fairly well in Figure 110; and more clearly at C iu
the enlargement Figure 111; and for better comparison, we are
showing in Figure 112 an enlargement of the photograph of
the wax Mr. Dudley is using in representing this left thumb.
The absence of this mark in the prints presented by Mr.
Dudley seems rather strange and is still further indication
that the wax impression which is shown in the Dudley exhibit
of left thumbs may indeed be one of the old impressions Dr.
"X" made for "Margery," and that at that time it did not
exist.
There is an additional exhibit of two left thumb impressions,
one of which was furnished by Mr. Hutchinson, both of which
likewise fail to show this characteristic mark across the upper
FIGURE 109.
Enlarged view of the core of a "Walter" partial-negative impression.
Note the difference between this and Figures 54 and 99.
FIGURE 110.
Negative impressions in wax of the right m1d left thumbs of Dl'. "X". Note the
small cut or crease near the tip of the core of the left thumb.
FIGURE 111.
Enlarged view of the core of Dr. ''X 's'' left thumb, showing the cut or crease (c)
near the tip.
FIGURE 112.
EnlaTged view of coTe of left thumb of DT. ''X'' which MT. Dudley is using and
which does not seem to show cut OT cTease shown in Figure 111.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 139
part of the core. And since Mr. Hutchinson says in the letter
which we have mentioned that he did not ask for a wax and
thinks this one was given to him by Mr. Dudley, it looks as if
this, too, might be one of the original Dr. "X" impressions.
The other left print illustrated in the Bulletin shows part
of a wax of December 3, 1927/' and has Mr. Fife's initials
scratched into it. As much of this left print as shows is similar
to the others and there is no indication of this mark at the core.
The ridge counts in these do not seem to agree with Dr.
''X's,'' although that may be due to poor reproduction in the
photograph.
Whether or not this impression was made supernormally,
of course we do not know, but, if so, it might easily have been
changed, as have other waxes we have enumerated, by making
replicas from one of the original Dr. "X" wax impressions
which Mr. Dudley had in the :first place. As he has had no
recent waxes, these would naturally show the condition of the
thumb as it was in 1926, rather than as it is now.
The joint line in this wax does not seem to be just like that
shown in the other wax Mr. Dudley is using, dated August 23,
1927. ~ o failure in reversal, such as we have shown as a possi-
bility in the case of the right thumbs, ·would account for these
differences in the left thumbs.
Thus, we may say of the left thumb shown in Mr. Dudley's
exhibit that it does not agree with the standard "Walter" left
thumb in any way; that there is no conclusive evidence that it
was made supernormally; and that there is very good reason
to conclude that these left-thumb impressions in wax are either
original Dr. "X" impressions or replicas made from them.
vVe do not know upon what evidence Mr. Dudley bases his
statement that there are one hundred and thirty-one prints of
*We have not had an opportunity to examine this wax, but we have a photo-
graph which we think is of the complete wax (Fig. 113), and although, as we have
said, it is not safe to analyze these impressions from a photograph only, the impres-
sion shown at the right in the illustration appears to be that of a negative of a
right thumb, and the core appears to carry a ridge, so that if this impression were
used as a die it would produce a positive with a staple at the core.
140 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
the "vValter" right thumb which are identical with that of
Dr. "X." To us this means little, since we know that the
greater number of the waxes which we hold-both old and new-
are not like Dr. "X's" in all details. As to those that have
been distributed in England, on the continent, and in Japan,
we can say nothing, but ·we have already pointed out that in
general photographs of these waxes are of little value.
Neither do we know why Mr. Dudley should have picked
out the particular wax he did for his comparison, when there
are others just as sharp and clear and distinct, but showing a
different core.
As for the negative of August 18, 1927, we have shown con-
clusively that this and many others would produce a positive
with a staple at the core of the thumb.
It may be true that a wax dated August 23, 1927 was marked
by Dr. Twachtman, but Mr. Dudley wrote the record, and Dr.
· Twachtman does not seem to remember anything about it. The
back of one of our waxes bearing a "'\i\Talter" left thumb im-
pression shows some very poor and much deformed marks,
one of which resembles an R. vVhile the letter E which Mr.
Dudley mentions and which shows in the illustration of his
wax may be the one that Dr. Twachtman scratched on it, it
has many of the characteristics of the E in KERR which was.
impressed by the manufacturer.
Mr. Dudley claims that he is accepting as a basis for his.
conclusions as to this identity ten or more clearly defined char-
acteristics with no clearly defined differences.
We claim, and have shown, that there are differences, one
of the most pronounced being at the core, where Dr. "X's"
print shows a rod and the "Walter" print a staple.
So far as the photograph of the two waxes is concerned-
one supposedly received from Mr. Hutchinson and one of Decem-
ber 3, 1927 said to carry an impression of the "vValter" left
thumb, we conclude that while both may be photographs of
Dr. ''X's'' thumb prints, they are certainly not photographs
of "Walter" left thumbs in any respect. Whether the impres-
sions they represent were artificially made we, of course, do
FIGURE 113.
Impressions of 12- 3-1927.
(See footnote on p. 139.)
MARGERY 1\IIEDIUl\IISI-IIP 141'
not' know. ·In fact, the authenticity of so much of the evidence·
is questionable that, did we not have impressions which were
obtained under our own supervision, we should not feel com-
petent to express an opinion in the matter.
One thing which impresses us in this article in the Bulletin,
and a fact which is most significant, is that Mr. Dudley, after
the severing of his connection with the work at Lime Street,
should have been moved to continue on his own responsibility
further investigation of the identity of the "Walter" prints
with the thought in mind that they might be those of one of
the Barly sitters; and it seems more than a coincidence that he
should so quickly have turned to Dr. "X," who was one of
the earliest sitters, and who had discontinued his attendance·
' at the seances even before the production of the paraffin gloves.
vVhen we were considering individually the various positive
and negative impressions of the "vValter" right thumb we
mentioned now and then the appearance of some peculiarity,
such as the excrescence which occurs on a few of the old and
new positive waxes, which is always found in the same·
position, somewhat above the core, and which appears in at
least one old negative print as a depression; or the variation of
the position of the ridges, as of p and y in Figure 101 or the
ridge disjunction which occurs occasionally, as in Figure
114 at B.
These variations are quite apparent to any one who studies.
these prints at all critically, and might by persons unfamiliar
with psychic phenomena of this nature and who are convinced'
that the "Walter" :finger-print is artificially made, be considered
as ·evidence of imperfect manipulation of the impressing agent
or die or of mechanical imperfections in it, since there seems to
be no known physical condition of the skin which could account
for the excrescence to which we have alluded. This may be true,
but if so, the replica was of living organic matter, neither normal
nor artificial, but supernormal.
The variation of the position of the ridges p and y shown in
Figure 101 might be claimed to be due to a technical defect in
the impression. Perhaps it is, but if so it is a supernormar
defect, whatever its cause.
142 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
The ridge disjunction and difference in ridge count notice-
able in some waxes may have been caused by a re-impression
due to rolling which produced a repeat; but if such be the case
it was the teleplastic terminal which did the rolling.
That these " -
Walter" waxes are variable among themselves
has been frequently commented upon. The very fact that these
variations do occur in these supernormally produced impres-
sions, seems to us, however, added proof of their supernormal
origin. ·with Geley/6
we think that "the defects in some mate-
rializations do not imply fraud, but quite otherwise."
Since these supernormal impressions are made by ectoplas-
mic material they naturally record any imperfections contained
in that material at the time the impressions were made.
If one raises a question as to how finger-print theory is going
to account for thumbs on two different hands bearing the same
design, the retort will very likely be made that the thumb must
have been added separately anyway since it is impossible to
make a negative impression of a whole hand ·with its five digits
all at one time. This is partially true in a normal case although
there are a few people who seem to be able to turn the thumb
over into almost the same plane with the fingers. Artificially,
of course, it can be done. But that is beside the point. Our
standard "vValter" hands are in relief, not intaglio, and were
not made by normal means, but directly by a teleplasmic
structure which appears to be flexible.
Of course, there is no reason to suppose that separate fingers
or thumbs could not be added supernormally, and not only has
"Walter" stated that they can be so added, but in fact, from
appearances and from his statements this actually occurred in
the case of the finger tips added to the hand shown in Figure 13;
but on our standard hands there is no indication of discontinuity
of skin markings; and if this right thumb was a substitution
then the substitution was accomplished supernormally and in
consequence the whole subject becomes more complex.
Another noticeable feature, and one which some observers
may question, is the finer and more natural appearance of the
76 Geley, Clarivoyance and Materialisation, p. 239.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 143
"Walter" left thumb in comparison with the right. It is quite
apparent. We might perhaps account for this difference in
_
Rtructural quality on the basis that ·walter .Stinson, as a loco-
motive :fireman, handled a shovel a great deal of the time and
his right thumb naturally had harder use and greater wear than
his left, in consequence of which the ridges would tend to be
worn down and spread out.77
It may be too much to ask anyone
to accept this as an explanation of this difference but if the
prints were normal it would undoubtedly be satisfactory.
Still another point and one which we have already stressed,
is the fact that in the art of :finger-print technique ten or more
points of identity in two prints, if there are no marked differ-
ences, are considered to be sufficient evidence that the two were
made by the same digit. In the case of normal or supernormal
prints, if there were no differences worth considering, this
might be true, but in this particular case we feel that the differ-
ences which are apparent in the ''Walter'' prints are too likely
to be masked by the :finger-print expert when he :finds so many
points of similarity because he will not-or cannot on account
of inexperience evaluate the supernormal factor.
It seems as though the statistics relating to the probability
of two different prints being of the same digit if they have eight
or ten points of identity, and no marked differences make it
impossible in :finger-print practice to consider that these two
impressions could have been made by different digits.
While the theory of probability may tell us much regarding
the behavior of large groups which are subject to its laws it
tells very little about any single member of such a group.
According to Galton 78
there is less than one chance in sixty-
four billion that two :finger prints alike in all their mimdiae were
not made by the same digit.
M. Balthazard of France expresses the ratio as many times
that of Galton; while Seymour states: "If any two prints are
alike in ten particulars the chances are one million :five hundred
11 Galton, Finger P1·ints, 1892 Edition, p. 59.
Wentworth, Wilder, Personal Identification, 1932 Edition, p. 309.
78 Galton, Finger Prints, 1892 Edition, p. 100.
Kuhne, The Finger-print Inst1·uctor, p. 7.
144 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
sixty-two thousand to one that they were made by the same
finger.''
This is not the place to theorize on the doubtful value of
some of these :figures; but we believe that if the actual data
pertaining to the minutiae of a large number of extraordinarily
alike impressions were carefully examined, and the probability
of alikeness accurately determined, these :figures would be
radically changed.
Moreover, when we :figure the probability of the time of
occurrence of some particular happening it does not necessarily
imply that the event cannot take place the very next instant, for
it may-or the next-or the next.
Let us take, for example, the radioactive element, uranium-
the heaviest element we have. It is estimated that of any large
collection of uranium atoms one-half will have ceased to be
uranium at the end of :five billion years, due to the expulsion of
the alpha-particles. If, however, we consider any one particular
atom of uranium we cannot speak so accurately. We merely
know that according to the laws of probability the chances are
even that one-half of the entire amount of uranium will have
disintegrated by the end of that period of time; but any given
atom may expel its alpha-particle the very next second and so
cease to exist; or it may not expel it for twenty billion times the
above-mentioned length of time.
In the few calculations that have been made on the proba-
bility of duplication of :finger prints the conclusions are based
on quite meagre data when we consider all the people in the
world, and if we understand correctly the :finger-print experts'
point of view-all those that have been*-or ever ·will be on this
earth.
Of the few thousands of cases that have been investigated,
study has been largely on the percentage of types rather than
on the probability of identity of detail, yet the literature on
:finger-print theory in general strongly emphasizes the impor-
*It has been estimated that in the United States alone, during the last three
hundred years, s·eventy or more million people have been buried. According to the
statistics available some thirty-eight millions of these must have had ulnar loops
on their right thumb.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 145
tance of minutiae as the place in which to look for difference
when any question of identity arises. However, it is probably
true that the average :fingerprint expert puts more weight on
points of similarity than on points of dissimilarity.
That the impressions of two different :fingers may have many
points of identity there is no question. Balthazard in a report
to the Academy of .Sciences in Paris stated that one of the
Bertillons found a case in which there were more than thirty
identical markings in the imprints of twin brothers. Of course
this is probably the best condition under which to obtain such
similarity.
There is little doubt that more actual and accurate work
with regard to the similarity of :finger prints has been done in
connection with the biological study of identical and fraternal
twins than of non-related groups, and we have already shown
through the courtesy of Professor H. H. Newman, a reproduc-
tion of a cut (Fig. 31a) showing the close approach to identity
between patterns of homologous :fingers of three pairs of twins.
These are not the more frequent ulnar loops but they represent
the way in which the centre or cores of patterns may show close
resemblances even when the pattern is unusual or unique in
character.
It is not surprising that anyone who is impressed by the
similarity of the "Walter" right thumb impression to that of
"Dr. X", should attempt to explain their differences of detail
in terms of the artificial or fraudulent production of the former,
especially if he is unfamiliar with the supernormal origin of the
"Walter" impression or refuses to accept it is a possibility.
Dr. Harold Cummins does so. Although stating that the
left thumb impressions of "Walter" and "Dr. X" were dis-
tinctly those of different digits, as also were those of all other
:fingers except the right thumbs, and despite noting minor dif-
ferences of detail in the right thumb patterns, he nevertheless
concluded because of their many points of similarity that the
"Walter" prints must be poorly made mechanical replicas of
"Dr. X's" right thumb, added separately to the hands since the
thumb print could not be made simultaneously with the print of
146 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
the rest of the hand, and that the differences were due to faulty
execution. We have shown that in these supernormally pro-
duced impressions of the "Walter" hands the thumbs were not
made separately, but were made supernormally and at the same
time.
Unfortunately, as we have noted elsewhere, several of the
"Walter" waxes which were sent Dr. Cummins for comparison
were later found to bear changed impressions and the discrep-
ancies which these altered prints show undoubtedly strengthened
his opinion.
This attitude on the part of anyone who has no first-hand
knowledge of the supernormal production of these impressions
is a perfectly natural one.
It is easy to understand how, in making an impression
artificially, differences might occur in the plastic imprint-but
in these supernormal prints this possibility would be ruled out,
and the variations might be accounted for, as we have suggested,
by lack of energy resulting in incomplete formation of the
teleplasmic pattern or possibly its incomplete reversal when
formed.
vVe; on the other hand, have shown that large numbers of
"vValter" right thumb impressions have marked differences
from those of any one else we have studied, not only at the core,
but at the delta, and, therefore, irrespective of many other
points of similarity these are basic differences of supernormal
origin, which cannot be explained away by mechanistic theories.
CONCLUSIONS
In conducting our investigation of these phenomena, and
particularly of the alleged identity of the "vValter" prints with
those of Dr. "X," we have been concerned primarily with the
waxes and casts as to which there is no question of authenticity
as seance room productions. By this latter phrase we mean
waxes claimed by the control "Walter" to be the productions
of his own activity. \lYe mean further to exclude by the phrase
any waxes which there is reason to believe on the evidence may
have been improperly classed as authentic through error, con-
fusion, substitution or the like. Data which are suspect as to
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 147
ongm or subsequent history or both, must be disregarded as
valid evidence on the issue of identity, except as such data and
the surrounding circumstances relating thereto have a bearing
on the weight of the case in support of the claimed identity.
vVe have considered the arguments advanced by adverse
critics of the case, but there seems little need for particular
comment on them because they have been based upon Mr. Dud-
ley's presentation of the subject and in general assume the
validity of his evidence and the soundness of his conclusions.
It is, furthermore, no part o.f the proper function of an inquiry
into the facts to discuss, analyze or evaluate the arguments of
controver~alists who assume the truth and validity of the facts
under inquiry.
We have approached the matter impersonally. Where our
own investigation has involved personalities and facts not di-
rectly connected with seance-room activities but relevant to the
investigation, the obligation to report fully and fairly on the
facts as we found them made such a course inevitable.
In stating our conclusions we do· not presume to offer any
philosophical interpretation of the facts or advocate any hy-
pothesis that would explain ·them or correlate them with the
general body of scientific knowledge. In intention our report
is exclusively factual. Where for convenience we have spoken
of ''Walter'' as of a real person, we were adopting an almost
necessary convention. That the phenomena are strange and
unrecognized in any of the conventional categories of science
should stimulate interest in them rather than excite derision
for the attempt to examine them scientifically. The evidence
for their reality is compelling and cannot be disposed of by the
formula of denial, or be met by the assertion of hypothetical
fraud. Skepticism is an indispensable attitude of mind for any
researcher in this :field; but reason and logic and intellectual
integrity cannot be abandoned because the facts involved tran-
scend ordinary experience. Scientific knowledge is not advanced
by making gratuitously a blanket charge of fraud because no
other conventional explanation is available. The most rigorous
proof is and should be required to establish the reality of
148 MARGERY MEDIUMSI-:IIP
mediumistic phenomena, but asserting the existence of fraudu-
lent manipulations where there is no evidence to sustain the
charge, is not only a violation of logical theory and rational
method, but a species of dishonesty that betrays prejudice,
incapacity and a moral unwillingness to face realities that may
threaten the cherished beliefs of a lifetime. The reality of the
finger-print phenomena as a genuine supernormal manifesta-
tion in the "Margery" mediumship is to our mind established
by overwhelming and rigorous proof. Their interpretation and
philosophic implications are beyond the scope of this Report.
The evidence which we have set forth, referred to and dis-
cussed in this Report establishes the following facts, and justi-
fies the conclusions which we draw:
1. That the "-Walter" voice is supernormal and is governed
by Intelligence of no mean quality.
2. That this Intelligence usually attains its declared objec-
tive, and without serious error or variation from the
announced program.
3. That having no lifetime record of the finger patterns of
vValter Stinson, deceased, we accept ex necessitate as pr·ima
facie proof the statements of the "vValter" voice as to the
identity of the "Walter" prints, since we have found over
a period of years that the statements of the "Walter" voice
are to be relied on.
4. That identifiable finger impressions, in a plastic, of known
persons, both living and deceased, have been supernormally
produced by the aid of this Intelligence.
5. That there seems to be no logical reason why this Intelli-
gence, if it be the independent entity it claims to be, should
not be able in like manner to reproduce the designs of its
own lifetime fingers.
6. That even though this Intelligence reside in the medium,
masquerading as her deceased brother, there still seems to
be no logical reason why it should not be able to reproduce
his lifetime finger prints.
7. That we have obtained under severe condition of control
many ''Walter'' impressions.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 149
8. That the standard "Walter" hands (Figs. 5 and 6) were
supernormally produced.
9. That the friction ridge designs of these "Walter" hands
are unlike those of the hands of any person present when
they were made, or of any persons who have attended
seances at Lime Street and whose prints are on file.
10. That finger impressions of persons specified by the investi-
gators have been supernormally produced through the
agency of this Intelligence and later found to agree with
the normal ink prints of the persons specified.
11. That the wax and other plastic material used by us i1'1 our
experiments was furnished by us and was identifiable, and
that many impressions of :fingers and hands were super-
normally obtained on these original plastics through the
agency o£ this Intelligence.
12. That there was no possibility of the use of molds, dies, or
other artificial devices or normal physical mechanisms in
their production, nor of their production by a confederate
or by natural human :fingers.
13. That the ''standard hands'' were supernormally produced
through the agency of said Intelligence at the request of
the writer as a step in an experimental procedure to estab-
lish the orientation of the thumbs.
14. That plaster casts from early paraffin gloves show many
points of agreement in ridge design with the standard
hands, and no significant differences.
15. That in particular the plaster cast of the earliest recorded
paraffin glove-that of May 17, 1924-shows many indica-
tions of having been an attempt to produce a "Walter"
right hand, and probably included some characteristics of
the medium's own hand.
16. That an index :finger of the right hand, obtained in a seance
held more than seven years ago, agrees with the homolo-
gous :finger of the standard right hand; and that there are
numerous points of agreement between a little :finger pro-
duced at that time and our recently obtained homologous
:finger.
150 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
17. That old wax impressions, as well as more recent ones,
which were classed as "Walter" prints, whether negative
or positive, have in general been shown to agree with our
recently obtained hands. Some of the impressions were
obtained at solus sittings; others away from Lime Street
and ·without the presence of Dr. Crandon; and still others
in another location under another mediumship without the
presence of ''Margery.''
18. 'That among these waxes are some containing both positive
and negative characteristics; others that appear to be par-
tially mirrored; and still others which seem to have '' Wal-
ter" characteristics in general but show apparent differ-
ences at the core or in other parts.
19. ·That these different forms and variations of impressions
are all phases of the "Walter" impression, some having
been produced in immediate response to requests for such
variations preferred as part of an experimental procedure.
20. That we have correlated statements made by "Walter"
with regard to the difficulty of making various types of
impressions, both positive and negative; his attempts at
the production of partial mirror prints; and the reason why
a right-hand impression may appear to be made by a left
hand, and have based a working hypothesis upon them.
21. That the actual mechanism by means of which impressions
are made on waxes during a seance is some kind of a tele-
plasmic pseudopod or exteriorization from the medium,
physically manifested during trance and under the control
of the Intelligence governing the voice ; that such mecha-
nism assumes various ·shapes and may appear as a rod,
terminal or simulacrum, more or less complete, of a human
hand; and that it is apparently re-absorbed by or into the
body of the medium. That such teleplasmic structures are
not embraced within any category of biological or ana-
tomical knowledge, and are definitely supernormal.
22. That the hypothesis ·which we have presented, on a purely
metaphysical basis, at least serves the purpose of giving a
picture of a mechanism which might produce the varia-
I
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 151
tions and different phases of the phenomenon, and may
be used as a tenative working hypothesis.
23. That a complete teleplasmic hand or finger is not neces-
sary for the reproduction of the design of any of the "Wal-
ter" hands or fingers, but that these designs may be
impressed by a teleplasmic rod or terminal.
24. That at least some of the early waxes now bear impres-
sions unlike those shown in the original photographs of
these same waxes, and that these changes were not super-
normally produced.
25. That the palms of the hands of "Margery," "Walter" and
Dr. "X" are all different.
26. That the ridge patterns of these six hands are distinctly
different one from another.
27. That the core of the "Walter" right thumb is a staple,
whereas that of Dr. ''X'' is a rod.
28. That there are impressions in which the core pattern is
clear and distinct, and others in which there seems to be
a plateau in the positive or a sink in the negative at the
tip.
29. That the delta of the "Walter" right thumb is different
from the delta of the Dr. "X" right thumb.
30. That there is a definite difference between the ridge inter-
val of the "Walter" right thumb and the ridge interval
of the Dr. "X" right thumb.
31. That whatever scars and creases may at times appear on
the "Walter" right-thumb impression cannot be used as
points of identity or difference as they seem to be variable
and are not always present, while those on the right thumb
of Dr. "X" are constant.
32. That the joint line of the "Walter" right thumb is dis-
tinctly different in form and size from that of Dr.."X."
33. That what appear to be skin markings of the wrist in the
"-Walter" impressions are quite different from the skin
markings of Dr. "X's" wrist, and those of the supernormal
impressions of .Sir Oliver Lodge, as well as "Margery's"
normal wrist impressions.
152 MARGERY MEDIUMSI-:IIP
.34. That the size of the imprints on "Walter" waxes that
would correspond to the hair on the "vValter" arm is quite
different from the size of the imprints made by hair on
Dr. "X's" arm.
35. That in the relief impressions of the "Walter" right thumb
the ridges appear somewhat worn, flattened and spread out
in comparison with those of the "vValter" left thumb; while
the ridges on both of Dr. "X's" thumbs are quite vvell
defined and leave clear cut impressions in the wax.
:3'6. That the "Walter" wax impressions viewed under a micro-
scope present a different surface appearance from norm~l
impressions in wax similarly observed.
.37. That Dr. "X" demonstrated to "Margery" the possibility
of using Kerr in these experiments by making impressions
of his own thumbs and that these were given to Mr. Dudley.
.38. That the right thumb which Mr. Dudley has used in his ex-
hibit as a "Walter" thumb, if it \vas supernormally pro-
clued through the agency of the "Walter" Intelligence, may
possibly be classed as a "Walter" partial negative.
.39. That if it is not of supernormal production it is probably
either one of Dr. "X's" original impressions or a replica
from one of them.
40. That the wax which Mr. Dudley is exhibiting as that of the
"Walter" left thumb is entirely different from the thumb
of the standard left hand and the earlier waxes, but that
it is very much like, if not identical with, that of Dr. ''X.''
41. That our recent wax and ink impressions of Dr. "X 's"
left thumb in all cases show a crease or light cut through
the core and a little below its tip, whereas those of Mr.
Dudley's exhibit with perhaps one exception do not show
this.
42. That two of the three "Walter" negative left-thumb im-
pressions obtained on August 23, 19·27, agree with that of
our standard "Walter" left hand, and are free from all
question as to origin and subsequent history.
43. That the impression which Mr. Dudley is showing as having
been made on August 23, 19,217, could not be one of the three
impressions produced at that time if all three were alike,
MARGERY MEDIUMSI-
IIP 153
as the contemporaneous records assert, since it does not
agree with the two mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
44. That although all the contemporaneous and relevant records
distinctly state that only three impressions were produced
on August 23, 1927, there are in fact five impressions at-
tributed to that date. Obviously if the records are correct
some of the impressions are spurious and must be elim-
inated as incompetent data on the issue of identity.
From our presentation of this subject it seems evident that
our standard hands must fall into one or another of the follow-
ing categories:
First. That the impressions they bear are composite (i.e., made
up of parts of the hands of different individuals).
Second. That they are impressions or models of the hands of
some one unknown person.
Third. That they are impressions of the hands of one Walter
Stinson, deceased, and as such are unique.
Let us consider these three possibilities in the order in which
they are presented :
First. The demonstrated supernormal powers of the '' vValter''
intelligence (1) to produce finger impressions coinciding
with the recorded normal impressions of persons both living
and dead, and (2) to produce impressions compounded of
both positive and negative characteristics, make it quite
impossible to say that such powers are unequal to the pro-
duction of a positive model of hands displaying skin pat-
terns that correspond in their different parts with patterns
found ·on the homologous parts of the hands of different
persons-a composite hand, in other words. To postulate
limits to the field of the possible exercise of a power or
faculty so strange and so little understood would be per-
haps presumptuous and certainly unwarranted by the
evidence. The persistence, however, of many detailed
characteristics and minutirn for so many years in scores
of impressions purporting to be of the same digits, would
rather indicate a fixed, definite original hand and not a
154 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
mere assembly of patterns from different hands. The
evidence, including the statements of the "·walter" voice
as a legitimate part of the data, seems to us to justify the
conclusion that the impressions of the "vValter" hands
are not composites but correspond to unique originals. The
occurrence in the standard "Walter" hand (Fig. 6) of an
impression of a scar corresponding to a scar actually exist-
ing on the hand of the medium is a fact for which no
explanation can, in the present state of our knowledge, be
- I
offered; but we do not consider that it requires the hand
to be classed as a composite.
Second. If the patterns on these hands are those of some living
person or of a deceased person other than Walter Stinson
we do not know who that person is, for these impressions
are not identical with the recorded ink prints of anyone
who has attended the seances, or of any other person, in
so far as we have been able to determine. The right thumb
impressions are not identical with those of Dr. "X" al-
though they are very much like them. Moreover, the
impressions of the other :fingers of this hand are wholly
different from Dr. "X's." As to the left hand there is
no doubt that in detail and as a whole it is different from
Dr. "X's." If, however, we assume that the right "Wal-
ter" thumb is identical with Dr. "X's right thumb,
we should then have an anatomical paradox-the hands
of two different individuals, showing distinctly different
characteristics as to the remaining :fingers and palms, but
with identical thumbs. This according to finger-print theory
is impossible.
Third. Since, during our entire investigation of the l'vValter"
phenomena, the statements of the "vValter" voice have
been found to be accurate, there seems to be no reason why
we should not accept its statements with regard to these
particular phenomena. It seems reasonable to accept these
prints as unique, especially in view of the fact that they
have consistently shown the same characteristics from the
beginning. We feel justified, therefore, in accepting them
tentatively as the prints of the hands of \Valter Stinson
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 155
as they were in life. Whether "vValter" the controlling
intelligence be a distinct entity or a subjective manifesta-
tion of the medium "Margery" is a question beyond the
scope of this report and seems to us to be of less importance
at the present time than the demonstrated fact that these
phenomena a1··e s~tpernormal and the prints apparently
umq~te.
Our conclusions, therefore, are as follows:
1. There is no evidence of fraud, trickery or the use of any
normal mechanism in connection with the seance production
of the "Walter" finger-print phenomena.
2. These "Walter" phenomena are definitely proved by the
evidence to be supernormal.
3. Neither of the "vValter" hands as a whole nor as to any of
the component parts, is identical with that of any known
person or persons.
vVe herewith make appreciative acknowledgment of the
assistance rendered by many exp~rts in different lines of re-
search, among them being Mr. Bert vVentworth, and Mr. John
W. Fife, :finger print experts; Dr. Harold Cummins, Professor
of Anatomy at Tulane University; Dr. Walsted, Professor of
Metallography and Dr. Bunker, Professor of Bio-Chemistry,
both of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Mr. Charles
\Veils, expert microscopist; Mr. vVm. H. Kuntz and Mr. Lee
Bowman, experts in photography; Mr. Hayes of the Bausch and
Lomb Optical Company; and the Folsom Engraving Company.
The writer is especially indebted to Dr. and Mrs. L. R. G.
Crandon, for their willingness to allow a study of the phenomena
1mder rigidly imposed restrictions; to Mr. \iVm. H. Button,
President of the American Society for Psychical Research, and
to Mr. J)aniel D. \i\T
alton, Chairman of its Research Committee,
for their patient consideration, in the face of no little criticism,
in allo,;
ving time for an unhurried examination of the data; and
to Professor Ralph G. Adams, of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for
his valued assistance in the seance room.
Mr. W. H. Button,
27 Cedar Street,
New York City.
Dear Mr. Button:
APPENDIX
I.
Boston, Mass., March 11, 1932.
I enclose Chapter LVI together with the photographs be-
longing thereto. I sent Bird some of these pictures a long time
ago, and when I was in New York I tried to find them. Without
any success! The prints had to be remade; hence the delay.
I have held out Chapter LXXVI, Outline of Finger-Print
Evidence, because I have additional evidenc.e which will neces-
sitate some changes in the preceding chapters; not extensive
but involving a paragraph here and there in several of those
chapters which have suffered one revision. This applies only
to the finger prints.
I believe that the first page of Chapter LV "Problems of
Control,'' can be improved, as well as a few sentences in some
of the subsequent pages. I am anxious to make it as strong
as possible.
Mr. W. H. Button,
27 Cedar Street,
New York City.
Dear Mr. Button:
II.
Sincerely yours,
E. E. DUDLEY.
Boston, March 18, 1932.
I enclose additional data on the reproduction of normal
three-dimensional finger prints by means of dies.
In my letter of March 11th, I stated that I had obtained
additional evidence in connection with the finger-print matter
157
158 MARGERY MEDIUMSI-IIP
which would necessitate certain textual changes. This consists
of the identification of the right and left thumb prints known
as '.'the Walter Prints," with the thumb prints of a living
person, one of the early sitters in Lime Street seances. After
these had been enlarged and analyzed I took them to competent
experts who agreed that the identification was unusually com-
plete.
Naturally this evidence will alter certain parts of some chap-
ters, and will call for a careful checking of all the material
for possible inconsistencies. I trust that you will return the
galley proof as soon as possible so that I can clean this up
with the least possible delay.
Fortunately most of the material deals only with facts and
has been conservatively stated. Nevertheless, I wish I had
known of this before I put in so much time on some of the
chapters. It could have been :finished by now.
Two things are proved: three-dimensional prints of normal
form can be successfully duplicated; and the "Walter" prints
are not those of Walter Stinson, deceased. Therefore, the
prints of a living person have been made since the beginning
of the experiments.
I learned from Margery, this afternoon, that you have been
successful in obtaining a "Walter" print in a closed box.
Congratulations.
Sincerely yours,
E. E. DUDLEY.
III.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 1
AN INTERESTING DEVELOPMENT IN THE FINGER-PRINT SERIES
STATEMENT oN BEHALF OF THE RESEARCH CoMMITTEE
In the summer of 19,31 the Society engaged Mr. E. E. Dudley
to assist in the preparation of material for the forthcoming
volume of the Proceedings on the Margery mediumship. The
subjects involved were largely confined to telekinesis and the
1 Journal A.S.P.R., Vol. XXVI, No. 7, July 1932, pp. 266-268.
lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 159
series of finger-print experiments. By the middle of March,
1932, the work had been practically completed when Mr. Dudley
wrote Mr. Button that he had just discovered that a certain
right and a certain left thumb print attributed to "Walter"
were identical with the right and left thumb prints of a living
man, Mr. X, who had been a frequent sitter at Lime Street
prior to sometime in 1925, long before the beginning of the
finger-print series. Mr. Dudley exhibited at Lime Street photo-
graphs of the prints involved with indices sho·wing the simi-
larities alleged by him to exist. These photographs were later
delivered to members of the Research Committee and slwwecl
superficially striking resemblances. Mr. Dudley claimed that
the similarities were so clear that there was no need of any
further inquiry; that he had settled the matter and that any
layman would concede the identity. This attitude, however,
in view of the circumstances surrounding this sudden and belated
discovery of the alleged similarities, did not commend itself
to the Research Committee. Mr. Dudley was advised that when
a proper investigation of all the facts and circumstances had
been made by the Society, the results would be published either
in the Proceedings or the Journal, and he was asked to pre-
pare in publishable form a statement of the facts as he thought
them to be and of his claims in respect thereto. On April 4th
he promised to do this, saying it would take but a clay or two
to prepare his paper. His statement, ho·wever, was not received
from him by the Society until J nne 13th, over two months later.
In the meantime the Society immediately began an active
investigation of the matter. During the past six years there
have been obtained in the Margery seances, under conditions
Df strict control and laboratory technique, about two hundred
three-dimensional impressions, cameos or models in plastic wax
-
of thumbs, fingers and entire hands. Most of these waxes are
-claimed by "Walter" to be impressions or models of his own
thumbs, fingers and hands. These "Walter" impressions are
-
of different kinds: according to articles heretofore published
by Mr. Dudley (see this Journal Vol. XXII, pp. 99, 191, 453)
they comprise at least positives, negatives, mirror positives
a nd mirror negatives, and a number of variations.
160 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
It will possibly not be easily realized that variations of this
sort in impressions of an apparently identical pattern or thumb
are entirely unfamiliar to the ordinary finger-print expert, are
not covered by the technical literature expounding finger-print
science and are not within the ordinary experience of the finger-
print criminologist. These phenomena present to finger-print.
science an entirely new and unique problem and are thought
by some to challenge the very foundations upon which such
science is claimed to be an infallible system of personal identifi-
cation.
Our Research Department first looked into the question of
the technical classification theretofore made by Dudley, of the
particular right thumb print of "Walter" used by him as part
of the basis of the claim, and it became quite apparent from
the evidence that instead of being a negative print, as Dudley
maintains, the print is a positive print. If this be true the sup-
posed identity of the print with the right thumb of the living
man, Mr. X, falls entirely. In regard to the left thumbs there
is a great similarity between the photograph of the "Walter"
print used by Mr. Dudley and the print of Mr. X, but the left
print of "Walter" used by Mr. Dudley seems to be unique in
the series of left thumb prints produced by "\iValter," the other
contemporaneous left thumb prints of "Walter" bearing no-
resemblance to Mr. X's left thumb print. The authenticity of
the wax print of the left thumb shown in the photograph used
by .Mr. Dudley is, therefore, open to question.
The above situation will indicate to our readers that it has
become necessary for the Society to review all of Mr. Dudley's
work in the classification of the many thumb prints obtained
in this mediumship, as there are evident errors in it, errors
which may be natural enough in a very complicated and difficult
subject. With only a print of a single thumb or a single :finger
to go by, without reference to the rest of the hand, it is some-
times very difficult, if not impossible, to determine whether
the print is from the right hand or from the left hand, and on
account of optical illusions it is sometimes difficult to tell from
a photograph whether a print is a positive or a negative.
Realizing these difficulties of classification our Research De-..
MARGERY 1\IIEDIUl\IISHIP 161
partment undertook and is still conducting an exhaustive series
of new experiments which throw much light on this interesting
situation. The problem was presented to "Walter" and he
immediately ridiculed the idea that his prints were identical
with Mr. X's.
Our Research Department procured the full prints, both
in ink and in wax, of the hands of Mr. X. They then requested
"Walter" to produce prints in wax of his full hands, hoth
right and left. In a series of sittings as remarkable as any
that have ever occurred in psychical research, "Walter" pro-
duced in wax furnished by the investigators, a large number
of partial and complete hands, both right and left. Most of
these waxes were produced in the presence only of the two
mediums, Margery and Mrs. Litzelmann and some of the fol-
lowing: our Research Engineer, Mr. Thorogood, Professor
Adams and Captain Fife. Although both hands so produced
carried thumb prints of the same sort as those that have always.
been attributed to "\iValter," the hands in every regard includ-
ing the thumbs are entirely different from the hands and thumbs
of Mr. X. The Society has thus initiated a thorough and ex-
haustive investigation of the matter which will be pressed with
all possible speed to a conclusion and the entire subject pre-
sented to our readers when the work is completed.
It is an unfortunate fact, however, that the claim of Mr.
Dudley, and the alleged facts upon which it is based, have
been widely disseminated through his activities, and have come
to the attention of people not connected with the Society who
have the story for publication. We deprecate such publication
before an investigation of the facts is complete, but the matter
having got beyond our control, due to the above facts, we have
thought it wise to make this statement, and despite any discus-
sion that may be indulged in by others in the meantime, we
shall make no further statement in regard thereto until the
investigation is completed and all the facts covered in an ade-
quate scientific report.
In regard to Mr. Dudley's statement received by us on June
13th, we have refused to publish it for the reason, arnong others,
162 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
that the identity of the prints discussed by him is open to
question and his statements seem to us unwarranted.
The problem of the source or origin of these seance · room
prints is of course quite different from the question as to
whether the prints themselves are identical ·with those of any
known person, living or dead. Data on the latter question may
have a bearing as evidence relevant to the solution of the first
problem, but it is not claimed by Mr. Dudley that his supposed
discovery is indicative of fraud in the making of the prints,
It remains to be seen whether any such inference will be drawn
by others.
vVe are gratified to state that our Research Department re-
ports to us unqualifiedly that the recent exper1ments have been
such that there can be no question whatsoever in regard to the
supernormality of the phenomena involved, all of which will
be disclosed in due course.
IV.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 1
BULLETIN XVIII OF THE BOSTON S.P.R.
Readers of The Journal will recall a statement published
in the July, 1932, number (vol. XXVI, pp. 2'6'6- 268) regarding
an alleged discovery by Mr. E. E. Dudley that some of the
thumb prints in wax, alleged to have been produced as his own
by " ·Walter" through the Margery mediumship, were in fact
identical with those of a living man. In that statement it waR
announced that upon the disclosure by Mr. Dudley of his alleged
discovery (which was in March, 1932) the Society immediately
began an active investigation of the matter and that the results
of such investigation would be fully reported when the \VOrk
was complete. The investigation of the whole matter has been
pressed with as much expedition as possible and in due time
the subject will be fully presented to our readers.
As stated in the July number, the Society had declined to
1 Journal A.S.P.R., Vol. XXVI , No. 11, November 1932, pp. 403-405.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 163
publish an article by Mr. Dudley offered on June 13th, setting
forth his claims. Although the traditional and announced posi-
tion of the Society has always been that responsibility for mate-
rial accepted for publication rests entirely with the writers of
the articles published, the Society does not thereby escape from
the duty of using responsible discretion and judgment in respect
to what it shall or shall not publish and the time for publication.
Its decision in such matters may, of course, be sound or un-
sound in any given particular instance, but it is certain that
in every case its action will be criticised and condemned by
some persons or some group of persons who happen, disinter-
estedly or otherwise, to disagree with the decision. Mr. Dudley's
alleged discovery may be of great importance in the history
and interpretation of the Margery mediumship, or it may be
mistaken or insignificant and of no permanent value. Mr.
Dudley himself naturally attaches extreme importance to the
matter and his eagerness to publish his views and the evidence
he feels supports them, has found accommodation in Bulletin
XVIII of the Boston S.P.R. recently issued. Mr. Arthur
Goadby and Mr. Hereward Carrington also contribute to the
Bulletin articles discussing the matter.
It is not our intention at this time to discuss the merits of
the question raised by Mr. Dudley or to review the contents
of this brochure, but rather to reiterate the purpose announced
in July to publish the results of our investigation with all
relevant and material evidence, when the work has been com-
pleted. Our readers may meanwhile expect a barrage of hostile
criticism of the Margery mediumship to break out shortly in
various public prints, as though set off by the appearance of
this Bulletin. This was forecast in our July statement. Rumors
of a veritable deluge of hostile criticism are afloat and evidence
is at hand that the channels of private correspondence have
been used to spread libelous versions of the alleged facts. Psy-
chical research has many friends, but more enemies, and no
mediumship that ever attracted public attention has escaped
determined attack. The launching of a new attack upon the
Margery mediumship, therefore, is not surprising; but all con-
164 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
cerned can well await the outcome with confidence that the truth
will ultimately be made plain.
Mr. Goadby's contribution to the Bulletin discloses appar-
ently complete satisfaction on his part with Mr. Dudley's evi-
dence and agreement with his conclusions as to what this
evidence proves. vVe do not question Mr. Goadby's right to
be so satisfied and convinced, and to announce his views through
any available channel. vVhether the contribution is in fact calm
and impersonal, as the editor of the Bulletin suggests, is not
over-important; but Mr. Goadby's enthusiasm leads him to some
extravagance and inaccuracy of statement that may suggest a
doubt as to his soundness in argument and deduction. Mr.
Goadby says, for instance, in speaking of Mr. Dudley's claim,
that the Research Committee has taken
"over three months to decide a matter which cottld
easily have been disposed of in a few hours."
The Research Committee has not decided anything except the
wisdom and necessity of a careful and thoroughgoing investi-
gation of all the facts before publishing anything on the merits
of the claim, and so announced in the July issue of The Jour-
nal. Furthermore, neither the Society nor the Committee will
''decide'' the issue raised or any part of it; but no possible
effort will be spared to assemble, analyze and present to the
Society and the readers of its publications all the material
evidence bearing on the question raised. That the question
can be easily disposed of to Mr. Goadby's satisfaction in a
few hours may do credit to his intellectual power and scientific
accomplishments; but those carrying official responsibility in
the matter may be pardoned for differing from an amateur
student of the subject as to the difficulties presented and the
proper method of ascertaining the truth. Critics, and especially
amateur researchers in psychical matters, who appeal early
and late to ''devotion to scientific truth'' to support or justify
their views, may occasionally overlook facts that lie nearer to
reality than their own emotional allegiance to a vague ideal
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 165
or abstraction. True science never jumps to hasty conclusions
or attempts to dispose of any question on incomplete data.
The Editorial Preface to the Bulletin, written, we assume,
by Dr. W. F. Prince, though bearing no name, compels a com-
ment of general character that ought to be made in the interest
of fairness and good faith.
The Preface says that the material is published by the Bos-
ton Society,
u both beca~tse of the ext1·erne importance of the
evidence displayed and beca~tse this evidence wottld
otherwise apparently be, to all intents and pu1·-
poses, suppressed."
Mr. Goadby's article discloses the fact that a statement regard-
ing the matter was published in the July number of The Jour-
nal, but Mr. Goadby carefully refrains from informing his
readers that the Society had announced in that statement that
the entire matter was being thoroughly investigated and that
a full report would be published when the work was concluded.
Nowhere in this Bulletin, however, is there any hint that such
was the announced policy and purpose of the Society. One
reading the Bulletin and its Preface is left with the inevitable
impression that this Society has embarked upon a suppression
of evidence relevant to the Margery Mediumship. The charge
is false. Dr. Prince is too careful and experienced as a con-
troversialist to be unaware that such an impression would be
created and it is a fair inference that the creation of such an
impression was within the definite purpose of the editorial
mind.
As a clergyman turned scientist, or pseudo-scientist, Dr.
Prince, when seeking to expound to others the canons of science
and protect psychical research from unscientific Philistines
might be expected to recall some canons of the moral law that
are immutable even in the scientific field. ''Thou shalt not bear
false witness against thy neighbor" is valid for .scientists and
psychical researchers as well as ordinary people.
] 66 lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
v.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 1
A SoLus SITTING AuGUST 10, 1928
BY R. J. TILLYARD, M.A., Sc.D., F.R.S.
PRELIMINARY RECORD OF EVENTS
In 1926, Dr. Tillyard,'*' passing across America on his way
to London, had certain psychic experiences in the presence of
the medium Margery. ·on reaching London he made in the
columns of "Nature," a leading scientific periodical in Eng-
land, a plea for a wider and more generous outlook on the part
of science towards psychical research.
Sir Richard Gregory, The Editor of "Nature" published
in that Journal (Aug. 18, 1928, No. 3068, Vol. 122, p. 229 et seq.)
editorial comment on a paper by Dr. Tillyard in the same num-
ber (p. 243-246).
Sir Richard said : ''One of the reasons why scientific investi..
gators hesitated to undertake research into these problems was
the uncertainty that, however faithfully they might follow up
clues, they were unlikely to be able to reach precise conclu-
sions.'' He then went on, in his amiable way, to dissect Dr.
Tillyard's report of sittings and concluded : "vVe believe that
Dr. Tillyard will have to bring much more convincing evidence
of the actual existence of Walter's spiritual personality than
that presented by him in his article before it can pass the critical
bar of science.''
In May and June, 1928, Dr. Tillyard found himself again in
Boston en route from New Zealand to London. There and then
he had the sittings with Margery which were published in "Na-
hue" August 18, 19'28. In England he was made Honorary
Fellow of Queen's College, Cambridge. He had several con-
ferences with Sir Oliver Lodge on physicopsychic phenomena
in general and the Margery experiments in particular.
1 Journal A.S.P.R., Vol. XXV, No. 4, April, pp. 136-145.
* See page 170ff for biographical note on Dr. TilJyard.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 167
Just prior to Dr. Tillyard's return to New Zealand by way
of Boston, Sir Oliver Lodge wrote the following letter to Dr.
Crandon, dated July 13, 1928:
Sm OLIVER LonGE's LETTER
Dear Dr. Crandon:
I hear from Tillyard that he is returning to Australia via
America. He is, I believe, writing about his experiences with
"Margery" in "Nature." If his article is admitted, it will
be an important step towards challenging the attention of the
scientific ·world.
He has an idea that it would diminish the opportunities for
accusation of collusion if he were allowed a solitary sitting with
"Margery" in a room arranged by himself, of course with
your approval; and thinks that if he got results under those
conditions, the sceptics would be reduced to accuse him of col-
lusion-vvhich, considering his position as a scientific man, would
be too absurd. I know that he is much impressed with ''Mar-
gery,'' appreciating her highly from every point of view, and
you might have confidence that he would treat her fairly.
More than that I cannot say, since you know what is reason-
able and permissible far better than I do. It is not a privilege
that I would recommend you to grant to many people; though
if it were feasible I should ·value it myself.
I trust that she keeps in good health, and that you neither
of you have been bothered with any recent controversies.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) OLIVER LoDGE.
Dr. Tillyard arrived in Boston about August 1st, and was
present at several sittings, and on August 10, 1928, he had his
long-desired sitting alone with the medium in a place strange
to them both.
Mr. E . E. Dudley, who assisted in the preparations for tho
seance and was outside the door during its course, made tho
following notes:
168 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
MR. DunLEY's NOTES
August 10, 1928.
At 353 Commonwealth Ave., Boston.
(Office of J. J. Skirball, M.D.)
Psyche searched before and after sitting by Miss Landstrom
(Miss Y). Dr. R. J. Tillyard and Mr. E. E. Dudley searched
by Dr. Skirball (Dr. X). No one else in the room at any time.
Preparations for :finger prints and Voice-Cut-Out machine
brought from Lime Street. Psyche wore only bathrobe, stock-
ings and shoes. Was under control of Miss Y from time that
she 1vas searched until tied in chair and from close of sitting
until again searched. Psyche's wrists taped to arms of windsor
chair with one inch surgeon's tape. Ankles taped to chair,
legs in same way. Approximately 24 inches of tape in each
piece. Ties cross-marked to wrists and to stockings by Dr.
Tillyard. E. E. D. left the room as soon as taping was :finished
and did not re-enter until Psyche had left at close of sitting.
R. J. T. alone with Psyche throughout sitting. Margery so
secured to chair as to be unable to move feet or wrists and
hands could not touch table.
Seance opened at 9 :12 P.M. Dr. Crandon, Miss Y, E. E.
Dudley, in hall with door closed and locked by R. J. T., did not
enter room at any time. \¥alter came in at 9 :15 P.M. Called
out to Dr. Skirball (oculist) "Hello, Eyeball, who's the
blonde 1" (Nurse is blonde.)
\iValter whistled a great deal, talked more or less with R. J. T.
who put hot water in dish and a piece of marked wax as re-
quested by Walter. The approximate times of completing the
three :finger prints were 9 :22, 9:25, and 9 :29 P .M. ·
At 9·:30 R. J. T. said that he was putting on the Voice-Cut-
Out:::, Just before this, I think it was, Walter said that he
•· Dr. M. W. Richardson's Voice-Cut-Out (V-C-0) apparatus was devised by
him to prevent entirely any nonnal use of the medium's voice-producing anatomy
and physiology. It was described at length in Jour. A.S.P.R., December, 1925, pp.
<373-68!:!.
It consists' of a U-tube 36 inches high, diameter % inch, space between arms
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 169
might not have enough energy and R. J·. T. said, "If you haven't
enough why not take some from me~" Walter, "Because you
haven't any.''
With the V-C-0 unbalanced by Margery, vValter said, ''Hello,
Skirball, skittish Skirball.''
9:37 R. J. T. announces that V-C-0 test is finished, that he
has removed tapes and that marks were intact. Said, "Walter
·says that he is going to work on my back.'' Sitting finished at
9 :42 P .M. Psyche searched by nurse. Nothing suspicious was
found at any of the examinations.
At close of sitting Psyche's back, over the 12th dorsal and
first lumbar vertebrae, showed red and swollen and she said it
was painful. ·This condition was not there before the seance
and her back had been protected by a small and very soft pillow.
.All discomfort from this cause had practically disappeared one
hour later.
Note : On return to 10 Lime Street the phonograph was
supernormally started as we entered lower hall. Three normal
negative prints of the vValter thumb were obtained at this sit-
ting. One shows a well-marked joint line.
(Signed) E. E. DuDLEY.
3 inches. This tube, supported on an iron stand, is filled half full of wate1·. On
the water· surface in each arm, (always at the same level, of course,) is floated a
cork of convenient size. In the top of this is inserted a wooden match, two inches·
high, painted with luminous paint. These luminous matches serve to indicate, in the
darkness of the seance room, the relative water-levels in each branch of the U-tube.
One free end of the U-tube is connected by a flexible metal gas tube to a glass
tip in the medium's mouth. This glass tip is kept, by a flange, from slipping into
tlie mouth. It has a hole, top and bottom, which must be covered by the lips tightly.
The medium then blows until one luminous indicator is at least a foot higher than
the other, and she then covers the hole in end of tip with her tongue. Thus, to
maintain the luminous indicators at unequal levels, she must hold the glass-tip with
her teeth and cover closely the three holes with her lips and tongue.. In short, all
her speaking organism is mechanically controlled. This experiment with only one
Pbserver, and he holding tbe medium's hands, has been repeated unnumbered times.
Under these condition.~ of non-equilibrium of tbe floats, Walter's voice continues to
talk and pronounce the most difficult labials and sibilants, showing, apparently,
the independence of the \'Valter voice from that of the medium, in any normal way.
170 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
DR. ROBIN J. TILLYARD
A BIOGRAPHICAL NoTE BY THE EmToR, I N TRODUCTORY TO His
RECORD OF A SEANCE FOR OBSERVATION OF THE PHENOMENA
OF THE ''MARGERY'' MEDIUMSHIP
Readers will recall the fact that it was Sir William Crookes
who, as a chemist and physicist of distinction, first made a
breach in the walls of the stronghold of official science. The
controversy stirred by his proclamation of faith in the medi-
umistic phenomena he had witnessed was deepened and ren-
dered more acute by the fact that he was a member of the Royal
Society of England. The Fellowship of this historic Society
is a privilege accorded to few, and only to those vvho have well
earned the right to be listened to when speaking ex cathedra.
Once again and with no uncertain voice, a Fellow of the
Royal Society gives his considered verdict in favor of the reality
of certain of the physical phenomena of mediumship. And the
time being now ripe for a more general understanding and
acceptance of these phenomena as a part, and an integral part.
of the scheme of nature and the evolutionary processes of life.
we do not doubt that what Dr. Tillyard has to say will be
pondered by all serious thinkers.
It is as an entomologist that Dr. Robin J. Tillyard has chiefly
earned distinction. Zoology has been his study. For eight
years (1920'-1928) he was head of the Biological Department
of the Cawthorn Institute, later becoming its Assistant-Director.
He has since been appointed Chief Entomologist to the Com-
monwealth of Australia. The study of insect life with its strange
permutations and metamorphoses would not improbably pre-
dispose their student to a view of the phenomenon of physical
death as but another metamorphosis of greater significance
to man, implying the release of the matured ethereal psyche from
the outworn chrysalis of the physical body. At least it may
be said that an entomologist can of all men most logically and
with least strain upon his philosophical principles accept and
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 171
give endorsement to the concept of the 'subtle body' and its con-
tinued vitality and power as suggested in the phenomenon of
the thumbprints of the discarnate human entity.
DR. R. J. TILLYARD'S NOTES
OF His SEANCE vVITH "MARGERY"
Held by him Sol~ts in the Consulting Room of Dr. J. J. Skirball
of Boston, Mass. (This being his seventh sitting
with this Medium)
Object of the Seance: Previous seances held in May and
June had proved conclusively the genuineness of the phenomena
under conditions in which both Dr. Crandon and the Seance
Room at 10 Lime Street had been eliminated. In the seance
of June 1st, 1928, seven Walter thumb prints had beEm obtained
under strict test conditions in a small room in Dr. Richardson's
house, with only Dr. Tillyard and Captain Fife, the finger-print
expert, present.
It was, therefore, obvious that any attack on the accuracy
of these results must be directed against the bona fides of either
Dr. Richardson or Captain Fife, or both. Sir Oliver Lodge,
foreseeing this, had strongly urged Dr. Tillyard to press Dr.
Crandon for a sitting alone with Margery in a strange room,
to see whether the phenomena could be repeated under such
conditions. Dr. Tillyard foresaw obvious objections to this
procedure, but was willing that Sir Oliver should write to Dr.
Crandon and state the case, and also agreed to write to Dr.
Crandon himself, putting himself unreservedly in his hands,
and promising to agree to any conditions he might make. He
suggested asking Professor Brues for the use of a room in the
Bussey Institution, and to have Mrs. Brues search the medium
and report the results; but this was turned down, as it was
feared that opposition of Harvard University to the experi-
ments might prejudice Professor Brues. The idea of getting
a private suite of rooms in a hotel was rejected, partly because
of the necessity of protecting the name of the medium, and
172 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
partly because of the difficulty of getting a bare room with plain
wooden furniture that could not be damaged, and a supply of
hot water. Finally it was decided to approach Dr. X,,, an
eye specialist, not associated with the Crandon group, who has
a fine suite of suitable rooms in a leading street in Boston.
Dr. X gave his consent. The room was shut up for some hours
before the seance began, with double blinds drawn, and nobody
allowed to enter it.
Dr. Crandon imposed no conditions whatever, and undertook
not to enter the room nor to let anyone else enter it except Mr.
E. E. Dudley, who was selected to help Dr. Tillyard affix the
surgeon's tape to the medium and to carry in some of the
apparatus.
Prepa'ration: At 8 :45 P .M . Mr. Dudley arrived at 10 Lime
Street, and took charge of the large Richardson Voice-Cut-Out
machine which was to be taken to Dr. X's. Dr. Tillyard took
charge of Margery's seance garments, ·which he had previously
searched, also two small, soft, white pillows, a medium-sized,
rather flattish dish for the hot water, a small round dish for
cold water, a white cloth folded longitudinally for the dental
wax to rest upon, a small towel to protect the medium from
scalding ·when the hot water was poured out, and a large kettle
for hot water. Dr. Tillyard had also prepared, an hour pre-
viously, a set of plates of the dental wax, called "Kerr," mark-
ing six pieces with the numbers 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 respectively,
and making an equivalent number of notches along the edge
of each piece. ·The bottom left-hand corner of each piece,
turned upside clown, was also broken off and similarly marked
for identification. The pieces of wax were put into a box and
carried in Dr. Tillyarcl 's pocket.
Margery, Dr. Crandon, Mr. Dudley and Dr. Tillyard drove
thus in Dt. Crandon's car through Boston to Dr. X 's rooms,
where they were received by Dr. X and his lady assistant Miss
Y. :Miss Y took Margery into a back room and disrobed her,
searched her very thoroughly, including her mouth, teeth and
hair, robed her in her seance garments, and led her back into
*Dr. J. J. Skirball.
MARGERY MEDIUMSI-IIP 173
the consulting room. Her statement is attached herewith. Dr.
X then proceeded to search Dr. Tillyard, taking his coat off
and putting it away, examining everything in his waistcoat and
trousers pockets, including the inside of his two spectacle cases
and a small box of pills, .and feeling him carefully all over
right down to and including his shoes. His statement is also
appended.
Dr. Tillyard and Mr. Dudley arranged the seance in a suit-
able part of the very large consulting room. A dark, three-
sided screen was set up with its back to the large windows,
through which a certain amount of light percolated even when
both sets of blinds were drawn. A plain wooden chair was
placed in position for the medium, inside the screen, and a small
plain deal wooden table was put in front of it. A second plain
chair was put to the left of the medium's for Dr. T., and a
standing electric light, with reel globe and bendable arm was
arranged to left of and a little back from the side of the screen,
in such a position that Dr. T. could manipulate it with his right
hand, and thro1v the light on the table without lighting up the
medium's face too strongly. Dr. T. carefully examined the
table and chairs, and noted that they were of the plainest make,
without any secret hollows or drawers in them.
Mr. Dudley placed the Richardson voice machine on a side
table, and alongside of it he put an electric torch, for Dr. T. 's
use to activate the luminous paint on the floats and top of the
U-tube. Dr. T. arranged the two dishes on the table, folded
the cloth longitudinally and put it into the larger dish, arranged
the small towel so as to protect the medium from scalding,
and put the unopened box of Kerr on the table. Miss Y
brought in the kettle of hot water which had been heated to
boiling, and Dr. T. placed it on a large pail to the left of l1is
chair. Mr. Dudley then withdrew to the door, outside of which
Dr. Crandon, Dr. X and Mr. Dudley staye l during the seance.
MissY led Margery in, reported a negative result of her search,
handed Margery to Dr. T. and withdrew also. Door was shut
and locked. Strong red light on. Dr. T. led Margery to her
chair, sat her down in it, and arranged a soft pillow for her
174 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
back. . He then placed a second pillow for his own back, as
\iValter had said he would try to do something for the arthritis
in his back, and that he would have to try to recline in his
·chair.
Dr. T. next called Mr. Dudley back into the room to help
him to fix Margery in the chair with adhesive tape bandages.
The four of these vvere cut off about .two feet long each, and
were placed tightly around bare wrists, binding these to the
two arms of the chair, and around her stockinged ankles, bind-
ing· these closely to the legs of the chair. Dr. T. then took
a thick blue marking pencil and cross-marked each bandage in
two places so that the lines ran well out on both sides on to tlie
skin of M's wrists and also across on her white stockings. It
was quite impossible for M. to move either her hands or her
feet from the strapping without betraying the fact by the
changed positions of these blue pencil lines.
vVhen binding M. 's left arm to chair, she complained that
it hurt her. T. examined it and found a large bluish red bruise
on it, a little above the wrist. M. said it had come during the
previous seance while De\iVyckoff.was alone with lH:;r, and that
\V. had stated that he had clra·wn teleplasm out from the skin
there and that it would be sore for a day or two. T. was
careful not to put the tape too close to the bruise.
Mr. Dudley now withdre'N, and the large heavy door was
shut and locked. Inside the room were only M., bound in her
chair, and Dr. T. Outside the door were Dr. Crandon, Dr. X,
Mr. Dudley and MissY. .
Red light out. M. lay back .in her chair and sighed. T. sat
in his chair holding her left hand. She was very restless. Shafts
of light were coming in from the windows, and as M. did not
eem comfortable T. addressed ·her and asked whether there
·was too much light. She was half a:wake and complained ·of a
particular bright sh~ft on the wall to her right. T. located this
as due to one ·blind being not fully drawn down; he went to
the window and drew the blinds well clown and fixed the edges
so that only a slight line of light came through. Jevertheless
the room was never really dark and T. could dimly see the
door and various objects throughout the seance.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 175
Red light out again. M. appeared more comfortable, and
went to sleep holding T. 's right hand in her left.
With M. asleep, Walter soon came through with a "Hello,
Tillyard" and a loud and piercing whistle. He called out loud
greetings to the people outside the door, and made a pun on
Dr. X's name, which caused laughter. He also called out
"Who's the charming blonde ~ ", referring to MissY. T. ex-
plained that she was Dr. X's assistant, and he said "vVhew,
he seems to specialize in blondes.'' He then began whistling
most vigorously and beautifully an old Canadian hymn tune
(not known to Dr. T.), and went right through an eight line
verse of it with beautiful modulations from piano to forte.
T. asked him what it was, and he replied "God Save the King,
of course," which made T. laugh. Later on, vV. whistled the
Wedding March from Lohengrin equally beautifully. T. said
"That's no good now, Walter, as J.D.'s girl has chucked him. "
W. said ''Too bad, too bad; tell him from me that he'll get
over it.'' Right through this seance W. whistled almost con-
tinuously and with tremendous power and effect, and his voice
clearer and stronger than T. had ever heard it before.
After about five minutes, W. told T. to put on the light
and put in the first piece of Kerr. T. did so, and W. said
"Whew, that water's hot; I've scorched myself." T. reported
this to Dudley, who asked whether it was his hand that was
scorched. "No" said vV., "It's the tip of my tail. ·That water
is as hot.as !" After a minute or so, T. heard slight
splashings in the water, and then movements indicating the
handling of the cloth, followed by movement of the wax in the
further basin containing the cold water. Soon \¥. said "Put
on the light and take the print out, and put another piece of
.wax in." T. did so, and W. said "You'd better make sure that
there is something on it," so T. examined the wax in good red
light and saw a thumb print on it. He asked vV. whether he
should put the light out, and W. said "No, go ahead, put it
in right away." T. looked atM. who was asleep, ·with her head
slightly inclined to the right. He could not see any luminous
teleplasm owing to the red light being so strong, but noticed
176 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
that the outline of her face was quite blurred. W. talked not
once, but many times during this seance, in bright red light,
his voice mostly coming from inside the cabinet to the right
of M. and a little above her head, but sometimes lower down
and near the table.
T. put in a second piece of wax and put out the light. vV.
said the water was getting a bit too cool, so T. put on the light
and poured in a little more hot water, protecting the medium
from possible scalding by holding the towel between: her and
the table. W. worked away in the dark on this piece and soon
had a fine print done, which T. took out of the cool water and
examined. Light out again. W. said he guessed the cloth
wanted arranging and a lot more hot water put in, so T. put
on the light, straightened the cloth, poured in a lot more hot
water, protecting the medium with the towel, and then put in
a third piece of wax. W. said this was all right, and got to
work on it right away. When he took the cloth out, he said, "I
guess this cloth wants squeezing out,'' and T. could hear him
doing it and the water trinkling about on the table. W. said
"I guess you've got enough thumb prints, Tillyard; take this
one out and put on the voice machine." T. put on red light,
retrieved the third print, and almost at once M. was awake
and complained that some water had poured into her lap. T.
mopped up some of it. The cloth was lying quite squeezed
up on the edge of the table. T. put away the three thumb
prints,"' and went across to the side table to get the voice ma-
chine. He turned on the electric torch, ·with his back to M.
and strongly activated the two luminous floats and the lumi-
nous band around the top of the tube. He then brought the
voice machine to the table and placed it in position. M. said
that if anything went wrong with it she would "M-m-m" three
times, and that T. must then put on the light again and rearrange
the mouth-piece. T. then placed the mouth-piece in M.'s mouth
and put the light out. M. blew up the floats and they sagged
back; she did this five or six times, but could not hold the
floats up. She then said "M-m-m" and T. put on the light
* See note at end of record.. Ed.
MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 177
and found that the junction of the glass mouth-piece and the
armored tube was leaking slightly. Pushing the glass portion
a little further in, T. replaced the mouth-piece in M's mouth
and put the light out. This time M. blew the floats up and kept
.them poised for over half a minute. vV. at once spoke and
said to ·T., "Well, here I am, what do you want me to say,"
T. taken aback said, ''Say anything you like, vValter,'' and
W. at once said, mockingly, "Say anything you like, vValter."
\¥. then spoke a sentence addressed to Dr. X, choosing words
full of sibilants, which sibilants need lip work. T. then asked
W. to whistle, which he did very clearly and loudly for some
seconds. W. then made a few more remarks and T. said he
was satisfied. M. let the float fall back and T. put on the light
and took the mouth-piece out of her mouth. T. noted her hands
still tightly affixed to the chair.
Light out again. W. saidl~e now wanted to try to do some-
thing for T. 's back, but it was essential that he should try to
lie back in his chair relaxed, just as if he were going to sleep.
T. said he would do so, and that W. could put him into a trance
if he wished. W. said "No fear, you won't go into a trance,
just lie back and relax." T. arranged his pillow comfortably,
saw that M. was all right and asleep again, and put out the light.
W. said several times, "Relax, you must relax" and T. did
so, so successfully that he began to feel drowsy and told 'N.
he thought he could go to sleep. W. said, "No, just keep as
you are; I'm doing something to your back. Now I want you
to remember this; when the medium wakes up, you are to ex-
amine her back, and you will see that I have done something.''
T. all this time remained drowsy but could feel some indefinable
change in his back, giving a slight suggestion of straightening
t1p and the removal of a dull sort of pain which he had felt
in his vertebrae for two or three weeks. After about :five min-
utes, \¥. said, "Well, that's done; don't forget to look at her
back. Goodbye, Tillyard, good-night all." T. turned up the
red light and called out that the sitting was :finished. M. woke
up slowly and asked T. not to put the bright light on for a
little while. T. waited and then put on the full white light.
178 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
M. said her back was hurting her a lot. T. tried to open the
big door, which had got stuck, and :finally he managed to open
it with some difficulty. T. proceeded to examine M's strap
controls, with the others standing around, and found them all
intact. The blue pencil marks were all exactly in position
and it was clear that she had not moved hand or foot during ·
the seance. M. complained of the pain in her back and also
in her left arm, and implored T. to remove the left arm bandage
:first. T. did this with difficulty, as the warm weather had made
the strapping very sticky and it was wound twice round her
and thoroughly glued together. T. had to pull it quickly across
the skin to avoid causing M. too much pain. An examination
of the left arm showed that the bruised area had spread a lot,
and was now about an inch and a half long. T. next removed
the other wrist-strap, and then the two leg straps, noting the
positions of the blue pencil markings on the white stockings.
T. then reported to Dr. Crandon·Walter's request about exam-
ining M. 's back, and suggested that Miss Y should search her
and disrobe her in the room while all the rest withdrew, and
then Miss Y could report if she found anything. All withdrew
from the room except Margery and Miss Y, and the door ·was
shut. Miss Y called out shortly afterwards, and the door was
slightly opened; she stated that there was a huge bluish red
bruise on M's back covering two vertebrae. Dr. Crandon was
willing that T. should examine it, but T. said he would be satis-
fied to see it from the doorway. Miss Y then draped Margery
and placed her half leaning over a chair, back to the door, with
the strong white electric light from the ceiling shining down
on her. The men all could see quite plainly a large dark blue-
red bruise covering the two vertebrae, which Miss Y reported
were the twelfth dorsal and :first lumbar. During the seance,
these had been protected by the pillow. T. remarked that these
were the two vertebrae in his back which had been most badly
damaged by arthritis; his ow11 back was feeling immensely
better, but he naturally felt upset at Margery's vicarious
suffering.
The door being again closed, Miss Y robed Margery, and
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 179
the seance closed with thanks and farewells by all to Dr. X and
Miss Y. T. gathered up the four adhesive straps and got Dr.
X to put each into a separate envelope with U. S. stamp on
it as an exhibit.
Total time of seance about forty minutes.
·weather hot and sultry, very unsuitable for a good seance.
Soon after our return to Lime Street, rain began to fall, and
there was considerable lightning and thunder. M. and Dudley
both appeared completely worn out. \¥alter says that he gets
a good deal of power out of him, and that he can only get it out
of heavy, well-fleshed men. \V"hen T. said to \¥. during the
seance, "\¥alter, you can take some teleplasm out of me if you
wish," vV. retorted, "No, I can't; you haven't got any." T. is
very thin, without any spare flesh.
On our return to Lime Street Walter started the Victrola
playing before anybody got beyond the hall.
(Signed) R. J . TILLYARD.
Aug. 11th, 1928.
Boston, Mass., U. S. A.
A NOTE oF OTHER "SoLus" SITTINGS
It is furthermore, pertinent to report in this place the fact
that similar strictly-controlled ''solus'' sittings, with the pro-
duction of typical Walter thumbprints, have been accorded to
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller of Oxford (9/ 10/ 28), Dr. M. \¥. Richard-
son (8!7/28), Captain John J. Fife (8/ 26/ 27), and Mr. Joseph
DevVyckoff (8/ 9/ 28).
TEsTIMONY OF DR. JosEPH J. SKIRBALL, M.D., AND His AssiSTANT
(Dr. X and Miss Y)
Addressed to Sir Oliver Lodge
August eleventh, 1928.
Dear Sir Oliver Lodge:
Mrs. Crandon (Margery), Dr. R. J. Tillyard and Mr. E. E.
Dudley came to my office in Boston, Massachusetts, on August
tenth at nine P.M. They brought with them dental wax and
two shallow crockery dishes for making :finger prints.
180 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
I examined Dr. Tillyard and Mr. Dudley and found that
they had nothing in their pockets or on their persons except
keys, chains, spectacles. My nurse, Miss A. Landstrom, ex-
amined Margery (clad only in bathrobe, stockings and shoes )
and found nothing. These examinations were at 9:05 P.M.
Margery and Dr. Tillyard were alone in my office, ·with door
closed and guarded by me. After the sitting, a second examina-
tion was made at 9 :40 P.M. in my ofiice and disclosed nothing.
Margery showed, however, an area of denuded epithelium to-
gether with subcuticular hemorrhage one and three-quarter
inches by one-half inch on the anterior aspect of the left fore-
arm extending to a point about two inches above the upper
end of the taping. Further examination showed the skin from
the twelfth dorsal and :first lumbar spine was reel and tender,
despite the fact that Mr-s. Crandon used a soft pillow (pre-
viously examined) between her back and the chair during the
seance.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) JosEPH J. SKIRBALL, M.D.
(Signed) AMY E. LANDSTROM, R.N.
LETTER OF DR. R. J . TILLYARD TO SIR OLIVER LODGE
Boston, Mass.
August 11, 1928.
My dear Lodge,
The TILLYARD Soh~s seance took place last night, between 9
ancllO P.M., in hot muggy weather, not suitable for good seance
work, with a thunderstorm brewing which broke shortly after
our return home. It was by far the most wonderful seance
I have ever attended, and as far as I am concerned now I should
not worry if I never had another sitting in my life. Dr. Cran-
don made no conditions and placed Margery unreservedly in
my hands. I think the arrangements which we made were
scientifically severe and at the same time put on record the
most marvelous result in the whole history of psychical research.
I am sending you my full report (:first writing) of this seance,
and wish you to consider the following suggestions:
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 181
(1) I would like a short account of the seance to appear in
"NATURE," but only after the criticisms of my previous article
have been completed.
(2) I would also like to publish the complete account, with
a photograph of one of the thumb prints and also photos of
Margery's and my own right thumb prints, in the S.P.R.
I will attach to the account Dr. X's statements as to his search-
ing of myself; Miss Y's statement about her two searchings
of Margery; and the statement about the damage to her back; ·
also the full names and address of Dr. X and Miss Y for you
to file and keep.
It seems to me quite impossible to find a single flaw in this
wonderful result.
Whether Science, under its present limitations, can ever hope
to offer any explanation, philosophic or otherwise, of these
extraordinary phenomena I very much doubt myself. But my
object is to record scientifically that they do occ~~r, that they
are part of the phenomena of Nature, and that Science, which
is the search for Truth and for Knowledge, can only ignore
them at the deadly peril of its own future existence as a guiding
force for the world. This seance is, for me, the culminating
point of all my psychical research; I can now say, if I so desire,
Nunc Dimittis, and go on with my own legitimate entomological
work. For you, my very dear friend, who have never seen any-
thing like this, I can only ask that you and your whole family,
will accept my statement as absolute truth, knowing me as you
do, and that it may bring added comfort and certainty to you
.all, if such are needed to you who already believe with your
whole hearts.
As for Margery and her husband, not one man in ten thou-
sand could have i1anded over his wife trustingly to a compara-
tive stranger as Dr. Crandon did last night, and not one woman
in ten thousand could have faced such a situation bravely, as
Margery did. The privilege granted me by them I shall always
~d to be one of the greatest events in my life, and they are
'\ bound closely to me by spiritual bonds which can never
>ken, and which, I am fully persuaded, will last over into
182 MARGERY 1\IIEDIUl\IISHIP
that wonderful life of which Death is only the Entrance Gate.
Farewell, and God bless you, and many thanks for your
splendid aid and advice which helped me to gain this great
result. My love to you all and very best wishes for your con-
tinued welfare.
Your affectionate friend,
(Signed) RoBIN TILLYARD.
P.S.-1 must not omit paying tribute to ·walter-the :finest
"ghost" I know of.
VI.
THE MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 1
A SoLus SITTING FOR THUMB PRINT, MARcH 11, 1931
UNDER ADDITIONAL TECHNIQUE OF CONTROL
BY WILLIAM H. BUTTON, A.M.,
PRESIDENT OF THE A.S.P.R.
The readers of the Journal are for the most part familiar
with the long series of :finger-print phenomena which have char-
acterized the Margery Mediumship. They also undoubtedly
know that these phenomena have occurred under very drastic
control of the medium in the seances that have been intended
to be critical. Such notably was the case in the Tillyard sitting
reported in this issue of the Journal and in the sittings held
at the S.P.R. rooms in London in December, 1929 (Psychic·
Research, June, 1930). The control of the medium on those
occasions consisted among other things of securely tying her
body to the back of her chair and securing her wrists to the-
arms of her chair and her ankles to the legs of her chair by
wrapping surgeon's tape about them and drawing the tape
tight around the arms and legs of the chair and for extra pre-
caution marking the tape by pencil lines across the tape and'
extending to the skin of the wrists and ankles. This cont ·
if properly exercised seems to leave the medium helples"
1 Journal A.S.P.R., Vol. XXV, No. 4, April 1931, pp. 146-150.
MARGERY MEDIUMSI-
IIP 183
to any normal participation in the manipulation of objects on
a table in front of her, although she might be able to reach
the table with her knees. It might, however, be suggested that
despite the wrist control the medium could still move her hands
and fingers and possibly handle objects on the table brought
within reach by raising or tilting the table by her knees. In
fact such a suggestion has been made.'~
To those familiar with the circumstances surrounding the
sittings that have been thus controlled this suggestion might
well seem disingenuous. I have been trussed up at Lime Street
according to this method with my knees in contact with the
table, and was able to tilt the table slightly at the risk of having
anything on it slide off the far side but found myself not so
gifted in dexterity as to be able to reach any article on the
table, let alone manipulate it afterwards. Possibly others are
more skillful. I, however, remain convinced that the suggested
use of the fingers cannot be resorted to if the control is properly
applied.
Nevertheless the careful attention of many sitters has been
given and much discomfort of the medium has been incurred
in this series of experiments which form an important chapter
in psychical research. It therefore seemed to me that if a
little additional effort and discomfort could result in the elimina-
tion of any real or fancied deficiency in the control such effort
and discomfort were well worth while. Any general and non-
specific criticism of technique or control is without value and
only irritating and possibly intended to be so. When some
prestidigitator says that everything can be reproduced nor-
mally without specifying lww, one is simply wasting time in
trying to prove the contrary. Such criticism has been indulgell
in on this subject in the last fifty years and much ineffectual
argument has resulted. If, however, a specific criticism of
technique or of control is made, it should receive attention
when it is reasonable and sometimes ·when it is not.
·The sensible way to meet such a criticism would seem to
be to reproduce the phenomena if possible, under circumstances
* (P1·oceedings S.P.R., February, 1931.)
184 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
-eliminating the real or fancied objection. With these ideas
in mind at a Lime Street sitting on the evening of March 10,
1931, I asked Margery's control, vValter, if he would not pro-
duce a print when the medium was controlled as above indicated
with the additional control of her hands and fin.r;ers by sur-
geon's tape. vValter immediately announced that he never used
the medium's hands or fingers in producing prints and that
if desired would attempt to produce a print under such addi-
tional control. There the matter rested for that evening and
I supposed that some such thing might be attempted in' the
future and asked Dr. Richardson to look out for it. Walter,
however, is a prompt individual and evidently does not believe
in procrastination. During the sitting of the next evening he
remarked to me that if anything was to be done it might as
well be done quickly and be gotten rid of.
At a sitting on the next evening, March 11th, \Valter was
in exuberant spirits. After numerous interesting phenomena
he asked for suggestions as to the next thing to be done. No
·satisfactory suggestion being made he announced he would do
·something on his own notion but would not tell what it was
to be. There were nine sitters present beside the medium.
vValter peremptorily directed them all to leave except Dr. Rich-
ardson, Captain Fife, Mr. Dudley and myself. The others
reluctantly left the room and went downstairs. Walter then
.directed Dr. Richardson to leave the room and guard the door.
He then directed Dudley to secure the medium who was in deep
trance. This was done in red light by tying her in her chair
with a rope passing around her chest and under her arm-pits
and knotting it tightly to the chair back: then with half-inch
surgeon's tape strapping her wrists, hands OJnd {inge1·s to the
arms of her chair, taping her ankles to the legs of my chair
which had been moved to a position directly in front of the
medium's chair. When the lashing was completed Walter re-
quested Dudley to depart. Fife was then directed by \ iValter
to search the room which he did in the red light with the aid
.of an electric flashlight and reported no one present except the
lVIARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 185
:medium, himself and me. He was then directed by vValter to
put hot water in the proper dish on the table, put in wax which
l1e had marked for identification, put out the light and depart.
Walter had directed me to place my hands in contact with the
medium's. I also kept my knees and feet in contact with hers
throughout. I had previously ascertained that the hot and cold
water dishes were in proper condition. For Fife's connection
with the :finger-print experiments I would refer to ''Psychic
Research," December, 1928, page 693. On Fife's departure I
found myself alone with the medium, she being so secured that
she could not possibly move hand or foot to any effect. An
interesting conversation with vValter ensued, which is not per-
tinent to this record except as indicated in the report appended.
In a few moments I heard sounds of movement on the table,
a slight splashing in the water and then vValter said the job
was done. The wax impressed with a fine vValter print ·was
duly retrieved and identified as being Fife's wax. The impres-
sion was one of the best vValter prints yet obtained. The con-
trols were found intact. A detailed report of the sitting is
appended with a reproduction of the thumb print obtained.1
I cannot refrain from commenting upon the sagacity and
.efficiency of Walter in the above occurrences. He devised every
precaution and directed it to be carried out. I might have
thought of locking the door but I probably would not have
thought of posting Richardson outside it as a guard nor having
the room searched as I ·was so confident no unexpected person
was there. Walter directed what should be done ·with the print
and ordered the entire sequence of events. I have concluded
that Walter himself is the one to answer any criticisms that are
made of him or of his methods.
SITTING WITH MARGERY AT 10 LIME STREET, BosTON, MAss.,
EVENING oF l\i[ARCH 11, 1931, IN SEANCE RooM
Present: Captain Fife, Mr. Button, Dr. Crandon, Mr. and
Mrs. Litzelmann, Dr. and Mrs. Richardson, Miss . Rich-
1 This re]Jroduction is omitted from this Appendix.
186 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
ardson, Mr. Dudley and Medium. Captain Fife at right of
medium controlling her right hand, Mr. Button at left of the
medium controlling her left hand. Mrs. Richardson searched
medium with negative results before sitting. Sitting began
about 9 o'clock and medium promptly went into deep trance
and remained in trance throughout sitting. Walter soon came
through and for something over half an hour exhibited various
phenomena of interesting character not here reported. At about
9:45 or 9:50 \¥alter announced that he had had enough of
that but added that conditions were good and the power strong
and wanted suggestions as to what he should do next. Dudley
stated he had something he would like to have done ·whereupon
Walter said he did not care to do that. Button produced a box
· of plasticine which Dudley had given him for the purpose of
attempting a fingerprint test and stated to ·walter that he had
that box and asked \~Talter whether he would try that. ·walter
said that was what he had been talking about to Dudley and
he would not use it. \i\Talter then said he had something that
he would attempt to do. vVhen asked what it ·was he said "I
will show you.'' Thereupon he directed that everyone should
leave the room and go downstairs except Captain Fife, Mr.
Button, Dr. Richardson and Mr. Dudley. The medium was
still in deep trance, the red light was turned on and everybody
departed except the four mentioned. The light was turned out
and vValter directed Dr. Richardson to leave and stay outside
the door to the seance room. Richardson did so. Button, Fife,
Dudley and the medium were then left in the room alone. W al-
ter then announced "Button, this is your sitting, what do yon
want to have done 1'' Button said he would like Walter's sug-
gestions. vValter said ''All right'' and directed Dudley to go
downstairs and get a large quantity of tape and a large amount
of strong rope. Dudley did so and returned in a few moments
·with a quantity of one-half inch surgeon's tape and a length of
rope. Walter then said ''Button, how will you have the medium
lashed up 1" Button asked "vVho is to be here 1" Walter said
"Only you." \Valter asked Button whethe·r he would have the
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 187
medium lashed to him or to the chairs. Button said "Lash her
feet to the legs of my chair and her arms and hands to the arms
·of her own chair." Then ·walter directed that the table which
had been directly in front of the medium be moved and placed
diagonally to Button's left with one corner near the chair of
the medium. Button was directly by \V"alter to place his chair
·directly in front of the medium's chair and as close to it as pos-
sible which was done, Button still occupying the chair. Dudley
was then directed to secure the medium still in trance. In red
light he passed the rope around the chest of the medium high up
under the arms and tied one end tightly to the top of the center
back spindle of the medium's chair with two half hitches and
the rope passing under each arm. The other end was wound
around the same spindle and tied with three knots, the rope
l1aving been drawn tight around the medium's chest. Each
hand of the medium was strapped to an arm of her chair with
surgeon's tape. This tape was passed several times around
meditlm's wrist, drawn tight, and her wrists drawn tightly to
the arms of the chair by passing the tape around the chair arms
and drawing it tight. The :fingers of each hand were then
lashed with the surgeon's tape by a turn of the tape just below
the :first phalanx including the thumb and two more turns over
the four :fingers just below the second phalanx, tape being
drawn tight and passed around the arm of the chair. These
wrist and :finger lashings were marked with pencil by Button,
the markings extending across the lashings and on to the skin.
Both hands were secured in the same way. Medium's ankles
were strapped respectively to the legs of Button's chair by sev-
·eral turns of surgeon's tape drawn tight about the bare ankles
Qf the medium and then tight around the lower ends of the legs
of Button's chair. Button's left knee was between the medium's
two knees and his right knee was pressing the outside of the
medium's left knee and Button's feet were in contact with the
feet of the medium secured as above, and all this contact con-
tinued throughout the sitting. The hot and cold water dishes
were on the table, the nearest point of any dish to the tips of
188 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
medium's right hand fingers being about sixteen inches. Button
examined the dishes. There was a little lukewarm water in the·
hot water dish with the cloth for drawing the wax out in place
and there was considerable cold water in the cold water dish.
Nothing else in either dish. Walter then directed Dudley to·
leave the room which Dudley did leaving only Fife, Button and
the medium in the room, Walter then directed Fife to search the·
room. Fife did this at some length, using an electric flashlight,
and reported there was no one in the room except Button, the
medium and himself. Walter then directed Button to place
his hands over the medium's hands and in contact therewith
continuously from this time until the end of the sitting which
Button did with no variations except in one instance as below
indicated. Walter then directed Fife to pour hot water in the
hot water dish and put a piece of dental wax ("Kerr") in the
hot water and leave the room. Button saw Fife pour in the hot
water and put in the dental wax, said Kerr having been pre-
viously marked by Fife for identification. Fife than put out
the red light and left the room leaving nobody in the room except
Button and the medium.
vValter and Button engaged in conversation on various sub-
jects for three or four minutes, Button hearing slight move-
ments on the table and splashes in the water. Presently, about
3¥2 or 4 minutes after Fife's departure, Walter directed Button
to take the wax out of the water. Thereupon Button put his:
right elbow on the left hand of the medium lashed as above·
and his right finger tips on medium's right hand and with his
left hand removed the wax from the cold water dish and then
resumed the hand control above described holding the wax in
his left hand. Button asked vValter whose print had been pro-
duced. Walter said it was his own. Button requested Walter to
whistle for him, which Walter did. vValter then directed Button
to call Richardson and Richardson came in and with the aid
of the flashlight Button and Richardson examined the lashings
:finding them intact and the markings on the wrist and finger
lashings as originally. Richardson turned on red light and
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 189
shortly thereafter the overhead light. Dudley and Fife then
came in and they also examined the lashings and pronounced
them to be intact. The medium came out of trance and ex-
pressed surprise to :find herself lashed as described saying that
she had not been so secured when the sitting began. The
medium was released, it being necessary to cut the tape and
rope with a knife. Button then led her to the door of the room
and turned her over to Mrs. Richardson who searched her with
negative results. Button put the wax print in an envelope hav-
ing continuously held it in his left hand since taking it out of
water and took it downstairs and there put his initials and the
date on the back having observed that the wax bore the imprint
of a thumb, showed it to Fife who identified it as his wax by
three notches which he had put on it prior to the sitting. Fife
and Dudley examined it and said it was impressed with a ·walter
thumbprint. Button then took possession of the wax and took
it with him to New York City as ..Walter directed him to do.
All seance occurrences were in dark except as indicated.
Richardson, Dudley and Fife reported that no one entered
or left the room during the sitting except as above indicated.
Dudley reported that he left the room at 10:08 and that Rich-
ardson was called in at 10:18. Dudley and Fife came into the
room at 10:22. The loosing of the medium was completed at
10 :25. The above notes are made by Mr. Button at his office in
New York on the morning of March 12th, 1931, from rough notes
made by him shortly after midnight of the night of March
11th-12th, on the train from Boston to New York and are signed
by the following, eaah one of whom certifies, however, only to
the occurrences that are indicated to have happened in his or
her presence.
WILLIAM H. BuTTON
JOSEPHINE L. RICHARDSON
JOHN w. FIFE
E. E. DuDLEY
MARK w. RICHARDSON
190 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
VII.
ANALYSIS OF THE FINGERPRINT PROBLEM ON THE BASIS THAT A
MoLD OR MoLDS ARE USED IN THEIR PRODUCTION 1
1. It is claimed that duplication is a photographic process.
2. That a dead finger is used to make the negative prints.
3. That the original is a dead finger from which casts are
made.
4. That casts are made from a living finger and from these
casts flexible molds are made.
1. The hypothesis of photographic reproduction of three-
dimensional prints, if advanced, cannot be seriously entertained.
Photographs are conventional means of presenting by light and
shade effects an image which is interpreted by the observer. The
latter's interpretation is a function of the lighting effects used
in photographing as well as of his imaginative powers. Chem-
ical or mechanical processes which must be used in producing a
three-dimensional mold based on a photograph are unimagina-
tive hence are incapable of reproducing the observer's mental
picture.
2. The second assumption is untenable because of the varia-
tions in the pattern and the marked changes in form as shown
by the wax prints. There is no information in fingerprint
science which permits the assumption that many thumbs are
practically identical as to the greater part of their minutiae ~ -
and yet vary in a certain few details. It has been noted that
these details which vary are not the same in every case.
3. If it is assumed that a mold is made from a dead or living
original the proponent of that hypothesis should be able to
account for all the facts presented by the wax imprints as well
as by the conditions under which they were received.
The varying forms of these imprints imply a flexible original.
For, if the original (whether mold or otherwise) were not
flexible there must of necessity be such a multiplicity of rigid
molds as to make the assumption palpably absurd.
1 From a1·ticle by E. E. Dudley, Journal A.S.P.R., Vol. XXIV, pp. 32-34,
Jan. 1930.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 191
If it is assumed that a flexible mold is used the original may
have been a dead thumb or a living thumb-if the critic elects
to deny the statements of the experts that these prints are such
as would be made by contact with living flesh. For the sake
of the argument we will assume that a flexible mold may be
made from a dead thumb and that the results are so perfect that
the experts can be deceived (no one has shown that this is the
case). ·Then, if there are alterations in the pattern these
changes must be made in the original or in the molds. But the
original can be altered only if it is a dead thumb. Once altered
every mold made therefrom must carry the same alterations
even though additional changes have been made. The wax
prints prove that this is not the case. Therefore, it must be
the mold that is altered. These facts apply equally to the
hypothesis that a living thumb is the original.
We are now reduced to the assumption that a multiplicity of
flexible molds have been produced from a thumb, either living
or dead, and that these molds have been mechanically altered
in such a manner as to simulate structures of living flesh. The
form and texture of the papillary ridges must be preserved
wherever alterations are made. These minutiae are miscroscopic
dimensions, as one will appreciate by studying his own :finger-
prints under a powerful magnifying glass. The photographic
enlargements of these prints do not disclose any traces of
mechanical operations. The variations are not merely the
excision of certain details but in many cases they involve the
substitution of other details not normally found in prints of the
category under consideration.
Keeping in mind the fact that the variants which are found
in these prints appear to have been made by contact with living
flesh we present the following list of some of the major differ-
ences which must be accounted for on the hypothesis of normal
production by the use of molds or the products of molds.
a. A terminal ridge in a positive print becomes a bifurcation
as in the normal negative but retains its width as in a positive.
b. An inclosure as shown in ridge No. 5 (Fig. 6, p. 198,
April, 1928), may be open at one end in one print, open at the
192 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
other in another or open at both ends in still another print.
Somewhat the same modifications may be found as regards the
inclosure in ridge 8, loc. cit.
c. Ridge No. 1 may be open or closed. .
d. Ridge 2 may connect with ridge 3, as in the majority of
prints or it may be disconnected.
e. Ridge 6 may branch to ridge 7, or this bifurcation may be
open. The first is evidently the normal condition.
f. A scar may be present at the upper left portion of the
negative or it may be absent.
g. A ridge which is normally bifurcated in the negative may
also be bifurcated in some positives.
h. Pores which are clearly impressed in some positives and
shown in the normal negatives may be absent in another positive
which is otherwise clearly impressed.
i. A joint line changes its form or its position in relation to
the remainder of the print.
j. The joint line may be of positive form while the remainder
of the print indicates that it is of negative form.
k. The joint line may be that of a normal negative while a
considerable fraction of the print is a normal positive and the
balance a mirror-reversed negative.
l. A portion of the print may be in the normal negative cate-
gory with the core section of mirror-reversed positive form with
the corresponding joint line.
m. The central ridge of the positive may be completely
excised without showing any evidence of mechanical operations.
n. A wrinkle or wrinkles may be incorporated into the print
with every indication that they are made by contact with
wrinkles in normal flesh.
o. These wrinkles may vary in number in different prints.
p. ·wrinkles may appear in one print and not appear in
another print made a few minutes later.
q. A normal negative print may be markedly convex, instead
of concave, without any corresponding distortion of the ridge
interval such as should result from the bending of a flexible
mold.
MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 193
r. A normal positive print may be made deeply concave
without showing any indication of the above mentiol1ed
distortion.
s. Or, :finally, a radically distorted print is produced on
demand and without previous intimation and this distortion is
so extensive and comprises so many variations from the norm
that a distinctly different mold would be required for its pro-
duction.
After having given all these variations the careful con-
sider.ation which they merit it is necessary to consider certain
other factors.
The concave positive has been made on the. same piece of
wax as a normal negative.
A print \vith wrinkles is made within a few minutes of a
print which shows no wrinkles.
The print with the maximum distortion (Fig. 2) is repeated
on the same piece of wax with a normal negative.
A print claimed by vValter to be of his left thumb is made
on the same piece of wax as a normal negative print of the right
thumb.
A print of a child 's digit is made on the same piece of wax
as a print of 'the \¥alter right thumb.
A print of another and younger child's digit is made
alongside of a normal vValter print.
A distorted positive is made within a few minutes of several
normal negatives.
Returning to the fourth hypothesis we see that all of the
above statements apply with practically the same force. No
alteration in a living original is possible and since a multi-
plicity of molds would be needed to make normal production
possible the same strictures apply.
The results obtained at the seance of Sept. 9, 1929, show tl1at
three different molds would be needed to produce the prints of
this one seance.
Setting at one side for the present all questions of control
and the testimony of independent and reliable witnesses, the
technical difficulties in the way of normally producing the large
194 MARGERY MEDIUM~HIP
collection of wax prints with their many variant details are so
great as to make it extremely improbable that any such means
were or could be used. (None of these prints present any in-
dication that normal mechanical operations were performed
either on the print or the structure which made the print.)
On the other hand, the evidence of the wax prints points to
the hypothesis that they are ideoplastic productions and that
the variations in the Walter prints are engineered by an indi-
vidual whose normal thumbprint is the basis on which these
variant forms are modeled.
Sir Francis Galton.has likened the pattern of ·a fingerprint
to that of lace. It may be stretched or warped in many ways
but the pattern remains the same. But many of the changes in
the Walter prints are of a different order. They involve local
ehanges in the pattern but without invalidating the essential
identity of the basic print. They exceed the known limits of
mechanical operations since they appear to have been made in
living flesh. ·Th~y are strongly indicative of the operations of
an independent intelligence. But this is exactly what Walter
has claimed. He has said that he makes these changes in order
that he may prove that these prints were not made by normal
means. There is, we believe, ample evidence that these prints
are not the physical prints of anyone who was present at the
seances at which they were made:
•
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
VIII.
BAUSCH & LOMB OPTICAL CO.
Established 1853
ROCHESTER, NEW YORK
Dr. B. K. Thorogood
Department of Mathematics
Franklin Union
Berkeley & Appleton Streets
Boston, Massachusetts
Dear Sir:
195
March 6, 1933.
We acknowledge your letter of March 3 stating that you desire
a statement from our Company in regard to the question raised in
your first letter of February 2'8 about stereoscopic vision.
The statement you made in first letter in the use of a Monocular
Microscope is correct, that a ridge in any surface may appear as such,
or as a furrow, depending upon the position of the illuminant. Such
is not the case, however, with the Binocular Microscope used for
opaque substances. This gives true stereoscopic vision irrespective of
the position of the illuminant.
In order that you may have cut and description of Binocular Micro-
scopes we are sending in separate mail two of our latest folders describ-
ing the Greenough and Wide Field Binocular Microscopes. The latter
are now obtainable with new drum nosepiece device, also with the
tilted arrangement of the binocular body.
Trusting the foregoing will give you the desired information, we
remain
MSchmitt :MMH
E.C. D-15
125
Very truly yours,
BAuscH & LoMB 0P'l'ICAL Co.
(Signed) M. Schmitt
Educational Sales Division.
196 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
IX. .
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, May 10, 1932. 9 :10 P.M.
Present to left : Mr. Thorogood, Mr. Adams, Sary, Capt. Fife and
Psyche. Miss Barry, stenographer, outside circle.
'l'he mediums were searched before and after the sitting very care-
fully by Miss Barry. They did not leave Miss Barry's side until they
entered the seance room.
Trance came on shortly and "Walter" appeared in a few minutes
and seemed to be full of business.
"Walter": "I hav·en't much time to-night so I must work fast.
Adams, you take Capt. Fife's place and Thorogood take Mr. Adams'
place.'' The circle now was as follows: To left, Capt. Fife; Sara,
Mr. Adams and Psyche. Thorogood inside of circle in front of ''Sara.''
Walter: ' ' Relax everybody. That doesn 't mean be dumb! I don't
want water as hot as it was last night. Mix it with a little cold water
and put it in the dish. Put the red light on Adams.'' The medium
was snoring very loudly. Mr. Adams put the light out after the hot
water was put in the dish and Walter instructed him to leave it on.
Walter then asked for a small piece of wax (hand size) to be put in
the dish. H e told Adams to put the light out.
9 :18 : Wax was put in the hot water in the dish on the table in
front of medium.
Walter: "What are those little pieces of wire1 I get them ~tuck
in my fingers.' '
Thorogood: ''That is just to identify the wax. '' For the next
few minutes Psyche was very restless and snoring very deeply. She
had a very tight grip on Capt. Fife's right and Mr. Adams' left hand.
Sary also had a tight grip on Capt. Fife's left hand and !J:r. Adams'
right hand.
9 :22 : Walter said, "You have a very fine left hand there. It is a
perfect hand. Take it out of the cold water and examine it.''
Mr. 'fhorogood removed the wax from the cold water and on exam-
ination found it to be a very good left hand in relief.
Walter: "That is all for to-night. Friday night at 9 P.M. for a
perfect right hand. Goodnight."
Red light put on and then Walter said, "Just a minute. Notice
how I polished the back of that hand with my heel. Look at it.''
Sitting closed at 9 :30 P.M.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 197
X.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, May 23, 1932. 9 :10 P.M.
Present at left: Mr. Thorogoocl, Capt. Fife, Sary, Mr. Adams
and Psyche. Miss Barry, stenographer, outside circle.
Medium searched before and after the sitting by Miss Barry as
described in notes.
'!'ranee came on in a f.ew minutes, and at 9 :20 ""Walter" came
through saying, "Cheer up, this is going to be a perfect evening."
Mr. Thorogoocl: "I got a couple of dandy Dr. 'X' '':' prints to-clay."
"Walter": "You will get a pretty good one of me to-night."
Thorogood: ''What do you think of those prints in the book ?' '
"\Valter" : "They aren't mine."
Thorogoocl : ' 'Whose are they ?' '
''Walter'' : ''Ask me no questions and I'll tell you no lies. You
aren't so dumb Fife.''
Sary was very restless and at 9 :25 ''Walter'' told Adams to take
her outside the circle. This was clone and then the circle formed as
follows: Capt. Fife controlled the medium's right hand and Thoro-
good's left hand, and Thorogoocl controlled medium's left hand and
Fife's right hand. ·
''Walter'': ''That is better, there was too much power.''
9:26: "Walter" asked for hot water and ordered a dry towel to
be put on the table between the cold and hot water dishes.
9 :28 : vVax was put in the bot water dish by Mr. Thorogoocl.
"Walter": "You are all right 'l'horogood. 1933 will be a good
year for psychics. Now watch the wax go into the cold water." (The
wax was heard to splash in the cold water.)
9 :29 : ''Walter'' told Thorogoocl to take the wax out of the water
and examine it. This was done and the wax was found to have a
print of the right hand in relief. Of this hand "Walter" said: "The
ectoplasm was taken from the medium. You have a perfect exhibit
of the scar on her right hand exactly where the scar is and yet it is
not her hand. The ectoplasm got mixed. That is why people not
understanding psychics ought to be very careful about what they
say about psychics. Be careful how you word that and how you point
it out in your description. There is a scar of her right thumb.''
"Walter": "FTiclay night I will make a negative of right and
* ''Dr. X'' substituted for true name.
198 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
left hands and there will be no mistake. That is a positive as you
call it (meaning the hand received to-night) . To make the story com-
plete I will make a right and left negative Friday night. They are
the easiest. Have two waxes the same size as you had to-night. You
will find your comparisons with Dr. 'X' prints easier if they are
negatives. My negatives will be beautiful. Friday we will sit between
8 and 8:30 P.M."
Sitting closed at 9 :45 P.M.
XI.
Pattern-types of 1st to 5th Fingers in Percentage of the Number of Fingers *
Loops
Fingers Hands Whorls Rad. Uln. Total Arches
All Both 25.65 5.81 61.14 66.95 7.40
Right . 29.38 5.94 57.76 63.70 6.92
Left 21.92 5.68 64.52 70.20 7.88
1 Both · 35.04 0.34 60,.71 61.05 3.91
Right 41.66 0.36 55.37 55.73 2.61
Left 28.42 0.31 66.05 66.36 5.22
2 Both 28.89 23.98 30.66 54.64 16.47
Right 29.67 25.73 27 .51 53.24 ~7 .09
Left 28.10 22.24 33.81 56.05 15.85
3 Both 16.22 2.31 70.44 72".75 11.03
Right 16.88 2.22 70.91 73.13 9.99
Left 15.55 2.40 69.98 72.38 12.07
4 Both 37.10 0.78 58.71 59.49 3.41
Right 44.98 1.21 50.74 51.95 3.07
Left 29 .22 0.35 66.68 67.03 3.75
5 Both 11.01 1.64 85.18 86.82 2.17
Right 13.72 0.17 84.26 84.43 1. 85
Left 8.30 3.10 86.10 89.20 2.50
*Data from study made by Prof. Kristine Bonnevie, Institut Arvehighutsfors-
hung, Oslo, Norway.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
XII.
10 Lime Street
Boston
199
Have taken Plaster Cast, and Photos sent by Bell, for further
study.
Dudley, 3 :30 P.M., Dec. 29, 1931.
XIII.
May 10, 1933.
Relative to the casts of thumb and index be advised as follows:
1. The casts were given me in the summer of 1926 by Dr. Crandon,
personally, from a box of casts in the library.
2. They were given as incomplete examples of the paraffin glove
agenda, then in course of experimentation.
3. I was not present at their production: they were given me to
exemplify the morphology, presence of nails, cutaneous line, etc.
4. They were paraffin encased, the ''paraffin glove fing·ers'' having
been filled with plaster of Paris.
5. I dissolved the paraffin from the index cast to exhibit the cutane-
ous markings: retained the thumb with paraffin casting intact, and in
such state returned it to you.
6. The digit forms were retained throughout the intervening period
of approximately six years in a box, along with picture wire which
I had personally applied as a control of Margery in the glass cabinet,
in a sitting of which you have a record.
(Signed) ERIC TWATCHMAN.
200 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
XIV.
Friday, November 14, 1930.
Meeting at 8 :30. Circle-Medium, D1;. R., Col. . ... ... . , Mrs.
Coolidge, Mr. Coolidge, B. K. T., Miss Richardson, Miss Richardson,
Mrs. Richardson, Mr. Litz, Dr. C., Mrs. Litz, Capt. Fife, in back Mr.
S., Mr. E., who came late, B. K. T. was between Coolidge and Miss R.
The apparatus and dishes for the :finger prints were placed on
the table and lights out at 8:30, but Walter said he wanted the voice
box :first so the dishes were taken off and the voice box put on the
table and adjusted by Mr. E. After that Walter whistled and talked,
whistling·, at times, two tunes at the same time, making considerable
noise and what sounded like feed-back although this, in the ordinaFy
sense, was impossible in the microphone. He then called for the dishes
and Captain Fife put them on the table and when ready several asked
what he was going to make and Captain Fife sugg·ested making en-
larged :finger print of his right thumb. Walter said he would not
do this but · did not say he could not. Dr. C. thought perhaps that
was stretching the matter a little too much to ask something new
under the conditions, but Captain Fife kept persisting and Dr. R.
sug·gested making anything he wanted and after several suggestions,
Capt. Fife still holding his ground, Walter suggested putting in the
wax which Fife did. After about a minute and a half he said ''take
it out'' althoug·h no sound had been heard. Fif.e took it out of the cold
water and put it in his pocket. Then the dishes vvere put away and
the voice box was again put on the table. On top of it was put Dr. R'H
voice cut-out mechanism and while the medium blew that up Walter
talked through the ''mike.'' He also levitated a piece of cardboard about
2~1z x 1 ft., which had been illuminated on one side, three or four feet
.above the table and around in various oscillations and then turned it
upside down and left it on the table. He made a few luminous light~
but not anything very bright. The meeting was over at about 9 :20 P.M.
The wax had an impression which had all the appearance of having
been stretched out thus giving an enlarged print as F. suggested.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
To: Mr. B. K. Thorogood,
41 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.
XV.
December 15, 1932.
Report : On the dermatoglyphics of ''X'' and '' Y' '.
201
The material received comprises: (a) palm- and finger-prints, both
hands, prepared by the usual ink method, of an individual marked X;
(b) photographs of detail casts, both hands, of an individual marked Y;
(c) photographs of thumb prints (labeled A and C), enlarged about
X4, stated to be from the individual X, and photographs of thumb castL1
(labeled B and D) corresponding·ly enlarged, stated to be from Y.
This material has been submitted to the undersigned with the ex-
planation that it concerns an ''investigation of the possibility of arti-
ficial reproduction and the so-called supernormal production of finger-
prints", the only further information supplied being that the subject
Y, to whom the casts so marked ''are supposed to belong'' is no longer
living. The request is for comparison of the impressions of X and .Y,
to determine whether the two sets are "identical". With reference
to the statement of this request, it may be pointed out that the word
"identical" is not exactly fitting, in that two prints from the same
digit may present differences, owing to unlike pressures in printing.
variation in amount of ink, etc. Such differences, though only slightly
lessening the number of points of actual identity and not invalidating
the correspondences between the two prints, disqualify the reference of
"identical". In the present instance, it will be noted, the comparison
concerns prints and casts. It would be preferable to revise the query
to read: Do the prints labeled X and the casts labeled Y present cor-
respondences indicating· that they were made by the same individual-
or, to invert it, are they so unlike that they could have come only from
two persons 1
Consideration of this query will be divided under two headings:
(a) the whole hands, exclusive of the thumbs, and (b) the enlarge''!
thumb prints and casts, A, B, C, and D.
THE WHOLE HANDS, ExcLUSIVE OF THE THUMBS.
'rhe impressions of X and Y present many conspicuous differences
in their major features. It may be stated with assurance that the im-
pressions were not made by the same person. The following formulated
202 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
statement of the major dermatoglyphic characters is expressive of the
f'Xistence of outstanding unlikenesses, so that it seems unnecessary to
add more detailed analyses, ridge counts and the like. The formula·
tion of palmar features follows Cummins et al. (Revised methods of
interpreting and formulating palmar dermatoglyphics, Arne1·icwn J mwnal
of Physical Anthropology, vol. 12, 1929), while the :finger-prints are
indicated by the initial letters of the familiar standard pattern forms.
X
Palm Fingers
II III IV v
Right 7(8) .5"(6) .5".3-t-Au.o.o.o.L R u u u
Left 7(8) .5"(6) .5' .3 (2)-t-L'".O.O.O .L T u u u
y
Right 11.9. 7 .5'-t-Au. 0. 0 .L .M u u u u
Left 11.9. 7.4 -t-Au. 0. 0 .L. 0 R u u u
The Enlarged Thumh Impressions: A, B, C, D.
All four impressions present the same pattern configuration, ulnar·
loop. In comparing them it is therefore necessary to resort to a mor~·
detailed analysis, including ridge count and the inspection of minutiae·
(forks of ridges, abrupt terminations of ridges, etc.). In the latter·
procedure I have made tracings on cellophane, indicating such features.
as shown on the attached sample. The desired comparisons may be·
l'eadily made by superimposing such tracings, both over other tracings.
and the prints or casts. In doing this it is essential, of course, to keeP'
in mind that a perfect correspondence is not to be expected even if two
impressions originated from the same digit, not only for the reasons·
stated above but on account of the fact that the natural rounded contour
of a cast is compared with the same or a similar contour reduced to a
plane surface in printing.
In referring to these thumbs I designated them by the letters with
which they are labeled, considering that the :finding in A and B is
sufficient reason to negate their respective origins from the two persons
X andY.
A and B present a correspondence indicating that they may be
.attributed to one and the same digit. C and D are from different digits.
Harold Cummins.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
l'o: Mr. B. K. Thorogood,
41 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.
XVI.
203
January 25, 1933
Second Report on the Right Thumb Impressions: Marked A, B',
Band A'.
After careful examination of the new material and restudy of the
photographs originally submitted, I am still of the opinion that these
right thumb impressions "may be attributed to one and the same digit",
as stated in my report dated December 15, 1932. The evidence sup-
porting this conclusion is now presented in some detail, in view of your
apparent conviction that the impressions in question originate from two
different digits. I must ask you to publish this report in full and to
include in your account cuts of the prints as I have marked them for
demonstration of the correspondences.
Please understand that my comments concerning ''possibilities of
fraudulent practice are made with no intention to question the sincerity
of any individual. I am considering the situation wholly impersonally,
as an outsider to whom you have presented the problem. I wish to make
it clear, therefore, that the references to fraud represent merely my
hypothetical reconstruction, and are in no sense to be interpreted as
accusations. The comments merely indicate, for your benefit in study
of the report, the deductions which may be drawn from these findings
by one who examines the materials alone, as I have done.
With regard to the new photographs labeled A, B, C and D (to
which I shall refer as A', B', C' and D', for distinction from the
original examples bearing· the same letters) you ·state that they
show "both these right and left thumbs similar to those mounted on
the yellow cardboard and lettered in the same way, A and B being the
right thumbs and C and D the left thumbs''. From the correspondences
of these prints I take it that the wax transfer process described in your
letter of January 13, 1933, yields prints which reproduce the essential
features of the three-dimensional waxes. It is thus possible to determine
that the new photogTaphs are not lettered exactly "in the same way"
as the original ones, for A'=B ("right thumb of Y") and B'=A ("right
204 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
thumb of X"). The signs identifying the "X" and "Y" imprints are
discussed below. You will recall my pointing out that two impres-
sions from the same digit are not identical in the strict sense of the
word, though they are ''identical'' in the meaning of one vvho employs
the term to signify origin from the ame digit.
I have made no re-examination of C and D, nor have I studied the
detail in the companion prints D' and 0', since it is clear that they
originate from two different digits, as before reported. The results of
restudy of A and B (Fig. 114), together with the findings in B' and A'
(Fig. 115) are presented below.
!Jacking sufficient experience with plastic, three-dimensional im-
prints, I have carried out some trials with several media to secure a
working knowledge of the operations and results in material such as
yours. Kerr's ''Perfection Impression Compound'' and another dental
preparation of similar qualities are among the media which I have
employed. 'Iy observations pertinent to the issue at hand are: (1) Im-
pressions made by a positive replica cast from a direct imprint of thr~
natural finger may be indistinguishable from direct negative imprints
of the finger itself. (2) Similarly, positive replicas cast from indirect
negative imprints (impressions of an original positive replica) may be
indistinguishable from original positives (cast from direct negative im-
prints of the natural finger). (3) Taking into account the variability
in dii'ect negative imprints of the actual finger, arising from unlike
conditions of impression, it seems likely that successive transfers (direct
natural negative to positive replica-that positive to negative, etc.), may
be continued repeatedly, still without signs positively differentiating
these ip.creasingly more indirect imprints from originals-because some
originals are less faithful reproductions than others. (4) Various forms
of artifact may occur in plastic imprints, including 11ot only the more
obviously unnatural expressions, such as battered ridges and pitted
surfaces, but also distortions of ridge relation. In the light of these
observations, as well as other findings to be considered later, it is quite
possible that the right thumb imprints of "Y" are indirect impres-
sions rather than direct imprints of the natural thumb, those rendered
in positive form at the seances being necessarily imprints of a negative
replica, or replicas.
First making note of your data recorded on the backs of the photo-
graphs A' and B', I pasted them on white board for demonstration of
the points of correspondence. You will note that some forty points are
indicated, far in excess of the generally accepted requirement to estab-
FIGURE 114.
Photograph of the right thumb prints of Dr. ''X'' and ''"'Walter'' indexed by Dr. Cummins, in which he
shows fo rty-four points of identity. The rid8"e disjunction which he mentions is indicated by the letters in B,
~
~~
/'
:>/
' w"RI g-ll!·l.~ WR.T
~
J'
31
33
3~
11
!l'
A~
' .; "
.. o
t;
3-1!-:>.7 .[ (1(/
l1
,\ RT
FIGURE 115.
Photograph of the right thumb prints of "Walter" and Dr. "X", similar to ink prints, both made by a
transfer process from negative impressions, and indexed by Dr. Cummins.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 205_
lish positively that two prints originate from the same digit. A' and
B' are therefore from the same dig·it (the rig·ht thumb of X, I assume
from the circumstances), and since A and B check with these wax
transfer prints all four photographs afford evidence of origin from the
one digit.
With respect to your query concerning the core: (1) 'l'he core
appears as a definite rod, or spike, in both A and B'. (2) 'rhere is a
suggestion of the same detail in the print A'. (3) In B, the two core
microphotographs, negative 5 (8/18/ 27) and positive 2 (6/ 14/ 32) there
is an area at the core head which is certainly not natural, but in this
area a rod core may be restored without inconsistency. (4) The wax
3/ 21,127 is vague, the ridges being battered and smoothed; with suitable
light and angle of view, however, the core is interpreted acceptably as
a rod. (5) In waxes 7/ 16/27; 8/26/27 and 9/9/29 ~·the core does seem
to be a staple in direct view, and though the sulci agree in this same
view it is to be noticed that with changed angle and illumination the
core may be converted to a rod. The various waxes of '' Y'' are accord-
ingly variable among themselves, and it is significant that they may be
.arranged in a series forming a transition to the rod state more clearly
shown in A and B'. You may be surprised that I refer to varying view
and illumination, placing stress on appearances thus displayed. My
warrant for the procedure is that it serves, though roughly, to check the
heights of ridges and depths of sulci. I may direct your attention to the
equivalent mechanical check which is provided in the ·wax transfer im-
pression, and that by this means also a rod core is suggested in a '' Y''
thumb, as shown in the print A'. Before receiving the second consign-
ment of waxes I had considered the remote possibility that the core
variations are due ·to a lesion in this region, ridges having puckered in
the healing process. It was for this reason that I requested a series of
elated imprints of "X" and "Y" extending over a period of years, to
determine whether a history of such ridge conversion could be estab-
lished. Your waxes indicate that the explanation lies elsewhere, namely,
in technical defect of the impressions.
In the region of the core head there is another ridge which is variable
among the several imprints of the "Y" thumb. It is the ridge coursing
distally from the bifurcation numbered 6 in the photographs. In some
cases this ridge fuses with ridg-
e n, as indicated on A'), while in others
-x- These three impressions (Figs. 82n, 83n, and 87n) were later found to have
been changed.
206 MARGERY MEDIUlVISHIP
it terminates as in B'. This variant, like the core discrepancy, is thus
to be regarded as an a1·tijact of impression.
There are certain other negligible unlikenesses between A' and B'
(paralleled in B and A, respectively). I shall use the natural ridge
relationships shown in A and B' (right thumb of "X") as the founda-
tion of discussion. On each of the photographs, A and B', it is to be
noted that a line joining points numbered 6 and 32 crosses fourteen
ridges, while the corresponding· line in B and A' transects fifteen ridges.
~rhe sequence of ridge details in A' and B' (and of course A and B) is
perfect ex'Cept for those points involved in the courses of the ridges
lettered c, d, e, f, g and h, and for these six ridges the sequence is com-
pleted properly with interpretation of the impression artifact in the
two waxes, 8/18/27 and 6/ 14/ 32.
In the waxes specified it is quite evident that the plastic was
l'eimpressed by a rolling or other irregular movement, producing a
"repeat" of the ridge b and cross-union of the six ridges succeeding it
nlnarwards. The restoration of the ridges to their true relationships
may be followed by comparing· the correspondingly lettered ridges in the
"X" and "Y" imprints. The repetition of like artifact in two waxes
made at an interval of about six years may suggest their origin from the
same replica, in which the artifact was originally introduced. It i'3
important to observe that the described ridge disjunctions do not occur
in other "Y" waxes, though one example (9/ 9/ 29) displays ridge
aberrations of like origin in another region (outlined on the wax with
crayon) .
On four "Y" waxes (7/ 16/27, 8/ 26/27, 9/ 9/ 29 and 6/ 9/ 32) there
is to be found a concrescence which is open, so far as I can see, to but
one interpretation. The feature is located about in line with the core
axis, distal to the head of the core at a distance of some twenty ridges.
It is apparently the imprint of a defect of a replica employed for making
these impressions, for there is certainly no normal feature of the skin
which can account for the presence of this blob of wax, and I know of
no lesion having its characteristics. The production of the same defect
over a period of several years suggests the employment of a replica,
either on replica or transfers which reproduce the defect.
In your letter of December 31, 1932, you write: "As this right
thumb is the same as that which occurs on the right hand, and as the
desig·n of the right hand is different from either the right or left of the
other individual, it seems almost conclusive proof that this thumb,
..
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 207
although much like the other, does differ in this respect (referring to
core unlikenesses in the "X" and "Y" right thumb imprints)."
It does not'follow, from the occurrence of a certain thumb in a hand
imprint, such as that of the right hand of "Y ", that the digit and hand
belong to the same individual. Since the thumb imprint must be added
separately it would be simple to make a substitution, as indeed it would
be also, judg·ing from the state of the '' Y'' hand casts as photographed,
to incorporate other digits not belonging to ·that hand. I can lay no
claim to ability to detect such substitutions from a cast alone, but with
the observed correspondence of the right thumb imprints and your
labels identifying them as from "X" and "Y" respectively, the
inevitable conclusion is that a thumb imprint had been so substituted.
It was this situation which prompted me to divide the previous report
into two sections, one dealing with "The whole hands, exclusive of the
tht~mbs", the other with the "Enlarged thumb impressions: A, B, 0,
D ". I refrained from stating the obvious implication of the findings,
be{Jause the definition of the thumb imprints in the photographs of the
right hand casts of "Y" is not sufficiently clear to make reliable deter-
minations of the ridge details, and I had only your labels identifying A
and B. Now, however, the paragraph quoted from your letter insistently
reaffirms the origin of the right thumb imprints, and it is only fair that
the matter should be discussed frankly. I may explain that the specu-
lation naturally aroused by this curious situation, the right hand imprint
of one individual bearing the thumb of another, led me to consider two
possibilities: (1) It occurred to me that you might be responsible for
the substitution, desiring to subject the thumb identification to this
specific test, combining it with a strange hand. (2) But it seemed more
likely that an imprint which had previously gained recognition as the
thumb of "Y" had been combined with the hand of an "unknown",
with the fraudulent intent of lending· a quasi-identity to that hand. If
I am correct in my inference that those who have examined the "Y"
imprints do not agree in their judgments on identity (though why
there should be disagreement I do not understand, if others have given
the same careful attention to like materials), the conflict might offer an
advantage to one planning a spectacular demonstration of whole hand
imprints. Other evidences of the employment of a replica are enu-
merated above, and the same operation may have been applied in the
'' Y'' hand imprints. There are significant differences in the finer
texture of the ridges in the rig·ht and left thumbs of '' Y' ', as shown in
208 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
B and D), the details being much more true to nature in the left thumb
than in the right. The difference suggests unlike processes, or linlike
conditions of impression, in the making of the right and left thumb
imprints.
Summary:
(1) The right thumb imprints of "X" and "Y" originate from one
and the same digit.
(2) The right hand imprint labeled "Y" thus bears a thumb which
does not belong to that hand, the band otherwise being 1mlike
that of "X".
(3) In certain of the '' Y'' thumb imprints there is evidence indi-
cating they are produced by a replica rather than the actual
thumb.
Harold Cummins.
XVII.
Whorls in Percentage of Fingers in the Various Human Raees
Dig. I II III IV v
Hands r 1 r 1 r r 1 r 1
Korea .. • • • • • • • • • • 0 64.6 54.4 43.4 40.8 33.8 35.0 63.4 56.8 32 .0 22.8 44.7
Korea .. .. . ........ 61.5 56.5 47.5 47.5 33.5 45.5 60.0 57.5 22.5 24.5 45.65
Japan:
Tschigaya. .... .. 61.1 48.8 45.0 43 .2 34.0 34.8 66..1 57.9 35.2 25.5 45.16
Sugano ... . . ... 57.3 49.7 47.2 40.4 33.3 37.8 66.2 58 .1 36.0 25.8 45.18
Sumatra ........... 63 .3 52.5 48 .3 45.7 30 .6 31.0 65.0 54.0 35.2 25·.9 45 .14
Nias . ..... ........ 46.6 38.1 42.75 40.7 23.4 25 .6 49.3 40.3 24 .0 16.5 34.73
Italy .... .... ...... 56.46 43.68 41.52 38.23 22 .27 23.16 56.90 42.79 22 .66 17.71 36.46 ~
England • • • • 0 . 0 • • • • 44.0 30.0 30.0 28.0 15.0 16.0 45.0 31.0 13.0 8.0 26.00 P>
Norway ..... . .. ... . 41.66 28 .42 29.67 28 .10 16.85 15.55 44.98 29.22 13.72 8 .30 25.65 ~
Q
Loops in Percentage of Fingers in the Various Human Races I:?=J
Dig. I II III IV v
~
Hands r 1 r 1 r 1 r 1 r 1
Korea . 0 • • 0 • • • • 0 • • • 33.4 42 .8 49.6 54.0 63.2 61.4 35.6 42.0 67.0 76.2 52.5 ~
Korea . ...... .. .... 33.0 38.5 45.4 46.0 >64.5 50.5 39.5 42.0 77.5 75.0 51.2 I:?=J
J apan: ! I tj
Tschigaya . .. . . . 37.8 49.0 50.4 50.7 63.5 62.6 33.7 41.5 64 .6 73.8 52.76 H
Sugano . .. .. . .. 41.4 47 .8 45.4 52.4 63.3 58.4 32.8 41.2 63.2 72.9 51.85 d
Sumatra . . ....... .. 36.20 45 .80 46.70 50.30 67.4 67.0 34.4 45.0 64.6 73.9 53.13 ~
Nias 52.2 59.4 52.5 53.9 73.5 69 .9 49.7 58.5 75 .9 83 .3 62.88 w
• • • • • • • • • 0 • •
P=!
Italy .......... . ... 42.26 53 .5•
6 46.83 50.43 70.39 68 .12 41.02 55.33 76 .24 81.37 58.44 H
England ........... 53.0 65.0 53.0 53.0 78.0 76.0 53.0 66.0 86.0 90.0 67 .30 t-0
Norway ..... .. ..... 55.73 66.36 53.24 56.05 73.13 72.38 51 .95 67.03 84.93 89 .20 66 .95
Radial Loops in Percentage of Fingers
Dig. I Ii III IV v
Hands r I r 1 l' 1 r I r 1
Korea . • • • • • • 0 . 0 • • • 1.0 0.6 16.8 11 .6 2.4 2.6 1.0 0.4 0 .4 0. 2 3.70
Korea . ..... . ... 0 2.5 7.5 13.5 0 1.5 1.0 0 0 0 2.60
Japan:
Tschigaya . . . .. 0.2 0.7 17.2 14.9 ~.4 1. 8 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.2 3.84
Sugano ........ 0.8 0.9 12. 6 13.2 3.1 3.7 2.1 1.4 1.8 2.4 4.20
Italy .............. 0.37 1.13 20 .0 18.4 2.27 2.40 0.63 0.19 0 0 4 .44 t-:l
Norway 0.36 -0.31 25.73 22 .24 2.22 2.40 1. 21 0.35 0.17 3.10 5.81 0
.. . .. . . .. <.0
. t-:)
1-'
XVII-Continued
0
Ulnar Loops in Percentage of Fingers in the Various Human Races
Dig. I II III IV v
Hands r 1 r l r I r 1 r 1
Korea . • • • • 0 • • • • • 0 32.4 42.2 32.8 42.4 60.8 58.8 34.6 41.6 66.6 76.0 48.8
Korea ..... ... ... .. 33.0 36..0 38.0 32.5 64.5 49 .0 38 .5 42 .0 77.5 75.0 48.60
Japan:
'rschigaya . . .... 37.6 48.3 33.2 35.8 61.1 601
.8 33.3 41.2 64.3 73.6 48 .92
Sugano . .. . . .. . 40.6 46 .9 32.8 39:2 60.02 54.7 30:7 39.8 61.4 70.5 41:65
Italy . ............. 41.89 52 .43 26.83 32.03 68.12 65.72 40.39 55.14 76.24 81.37 54.0 ~
Norway ... .. .. . .... 55.37 66..05 27.51 33.81 70.91 69.98 50.74 66 .68 84.26 86.10 61.14 P>
Arches in Percentage of Fingers in the Val'ious Human Races
~
Q
Dig. I II III IV v ~
Hands r 1 r I r I r I r . I ~
Korea . • 0 • • • 0 • • • • • 0 1.4 2.2 6.2 4.4 2.2 3.0 0.8 0 .8 1.0 0.8 2 .28 l<j
Korea . • 0 • • • • • • 0 • • • 5:0 3.0 7.0 5.5 2.0 4.0 0.5 0.5 0 0 2.75
~
Japan : trJ
Tschigaya .. . ... 1.1 2.2 4.2 5.6 2.1 2.3 0.2 0.3 0.1 0 1.81 tJ
Sugano .. . .. ... 0.9 2.5 7.1 6 .9 3.0 3.5 0·.7 0.6 0.4 0.6 2.62 H
Sumatra ... . .... .. . 0.5 1.7 . 5.0 4 .0 2.0 2.0 0.6 1.0 0 .2 0.2 1. 72 d
Nias . •• • • • • • . .• 0. 1.2 2.5 4.7 5.4 3.1 4.5 1.0 1.2 0.1 0.2 2.39 ~
Italy .. ... ...... .. . 1.26 3.10 11.65 10.7 7.02 7.97 1.83 1.45 0.76 1.45 4 .72 w
England ........... 3.0 5.0 17.0 17.0 7.0 8.0 2.0 3.0 1.0 2.0 6.50 p:j
H
Norway .. . . . . ...... 2.61 5.22 17 .09 15.85 9.99 12.07 3.07 3.75 1.85 2.50 7.40 hj
Races
Korea . .. ........ .
Eitoho ..... . ..... .
Japan:
Tschigaya .. . .
Sugano .... . . .
Nigata . .. . ... .... .
Sumatra . . ..... . . .
India .. .. ...... . . .
Nias............ .
Aino ...... . ..... .
Italy .. ... . ...... .
Italy .. .. . ..... .. .
Italy .. . .. .. .. .. . .
" (German race) ..
England..... . ... .
Norway .. ........ .
XVIII.
Statistical Occurrence of Pattern-Types in Different Human Races
Whorls Rad U1n Total Arches Indiv. Investigated
45 .18 3.15 48. 71 51 .86 2.62 700 Criminals
45.70 3.43 48.<
60 52.03 1.90 300 Criminals
45 .16 3.84 48.92 52.76 1.81 700 Criminals
45.18 4.2 47.65 51.85 2.62 1528 Criminals
43.6 3.2 50.4 53 .6 2.8 276 Stud. Nurses
45.14 53.13 1. 72 500 Natives
36.1 2.7 59.2 61.9 1.6 27 Artists
34.73 62.88 2.39 1300 Natives
31.8 3.8 61.4 65.2 2.9 55 Children
36 .46 4.44 54.00 58.44 . 4. 72 1579 Criminals
39.0 3.9 53.0 56.90 4.7 100 Normal
39.3 3.7 53 .7 57.40 3.7 100 Criminals
29.2 5.1 57.9 63.0 7.4 100 ' ' Stranieri' '
26 .00 67.3 6.5 500 2
25.65 5.81 ·61. 14 66.95 7.40 24,518 Criminals
Statistics of Pattern-Types, Combined by Collins (1913) with the Occurrence of
Brachy- and Dolichocephals
Races Whorls Total Arches Indiv. Investigated
China.. • • 0 0 • • • • • • • • 38 .7 57.1 4.2 5000 Brachycephals
India. ............. 36 61 3
} 2000 f Dolichocephals
India. ... .... . .. . ... 30.5 65 4.5 l Brachycephals
England.. .......... 20.15 74.R5 5 5000 Dolichocephals
Author
Kubo 1918
Kubo 1918
Kubo 1918
Furuse 1913
Kl. de Zwaan 1911
Schlaginhaufen 1906
Kl. de Zwaan 1911
Hasebe 1918
Falco 1908
Gasti 1907
Galton 1892
Bonnevie 1922
212 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
XIX.
To WHOM IT MAY CoNCERN:
This is to certify that I have made ink prints of the finger tips and
palm patterns of both ! 'M'' and '' C'' and have classified these as well
as two photographs of the wax impressions including the finger tips
and the palms said to be "W" and state they are of the hands of
different individuals.
Note:
''M''=''Margery''
''C''=Dr. ''X"
"W''=''Walter''
(Signed) BERT WENTWORTH
March 24, 1933.
XX.
Repm·t by W . T.. Bell
On the identity of the alleged supernormal " ·walter" prints on
plaster cast of May 17, 1924.
In view of the request made to me to report as to the identity in
regard to certain seance imprints obtained in Boston, which were
sent to me by Sir Oliver Lodge on October 10, 1931, after making
my report upon these imprints I thought it advisable to refer back to
some previous published thumb prints, alleged to have been obtained
in a similar manner.
In 1929 a book "The Thumbprint and Cross-Correspondence Experi-
ments Made with the Medium 'Margery' During 1927 and 1928''
was sent to me by Dr. L. R. G. Crandon.
'rhis book is reprinted from the Journal of the .American Society
for Psychical Research. At the seance sittings under Margery's l\'fe-
diumship during 1927-1928 many alleged supernormal digital impres-
sions were produced.
These imprints are in most cases identical and are referred to as
the "well known Walter print." .A photographic copy of a super-
normal "Walter print" shown on pag·~ 91, and marked 2-3-27 appears
m exhibit and marked 1. (Our Figure 106).
On page 96, a photograph of a digital impression appears, which
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 213
js described as ''Thumb of the paraffin glove of May, 1924, showing
the Walter print; photographed direct from the plaster cast of the
glove made at the time." This print is reported on by Mr. John W.
Fife, who is described as a civilian finger print expert and Chief of
Police of Charlestown (Boston) Navy Yard. Mr. Fife's report appears
-on page 87, and reads :
Capt. J. W. Fife's Repo1·t
(Quoted in Mr. Bell's Report-Exhibit 11)
"I then examined the plaster cast of a ·hand, marked May 17, 1924,
and find that the ridges and depressions are clearly marked over most
-of the area of the thumb, but that the thumb, like the rest of the hand
is distorted. The ball of the thumb seems to have been pinched up
·into a ridge above the core and this gives a different appearance to
the pattern in that region as compared to the wax prints. In spite
of this distortion, the pattern is in general identical with that of
the wax prints in the corresponding area. The ridge count from the
core to the delta is the same and the relationship of numerous bifurca-
tiom; is consistent with those of the wax prints. In spite of the peculiar
distortion of this thumb I am convinced that it is the same finger print
pattern as the other prints and that it proves that the convex prints
above referred to are actually models of a normal thumb.
I have compared Margery's thumb print with the ones produced
by 'Walter,' and found her thumb prints to be of the ulnar type,
and that they revealed some characteristics in the 'vicinity of the core
that are almost identical with the ones found in the 'Walter' prints.
.Although their prints·resemble each other so far as characteristics are
·concerned, they are not the same identical prints. The resemblance
is sufficiently close to show blood relationship.
In comparing Marg·ery 's and Walter's prints with those of their
mother, Mrs. Stinson, I found that the patterns and characteristics
contained in the prints of all three resemble each other closely enough
to indicate blood relationship. In families there is usually noted a
correspondence of special characteristics amounting, in the case of a
mother and son, to as much as 75 per cent, and between brother anJ
sister to 50 per cent.
It is my opinion, based on a most careful examination of the wax
prints originally submitted to me by Dr. Crandon and the prints
obtained at the seance of March 21, 1927, that these prints have been
made by a living thumb, that the patterns are the same in all the
214 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
prints except that some are reversed from the others, that the convex
prints were not made from any of the concave prints which I have
seen, that the prints of March 21st ·were not made by the thumb of
any person in the room, and that the thumb of the plaster cast carried
the same pattern as the thumb which made the normal wax impression.''
(Signed) JOHN W. FIFE,
19 Chestnut St., Somerville, Mass.
Mr. Bell 's Report (continued)
On page 95 it is quoted ''.An examination of the photograph in
question (i.e., 'Walter print') and of the original plaster cast reveals
much of interest.''
It does, for after careful scrutiny of these photographs, I declare
emphatically that these impressions apart from similarity of type or
pattern do not disclose any ridge characteristic data in agreement,
are not identical with each other, and therefore must be imprints or
replicas of different digits. See reversed photographs of digital mark
on Plaster Cast 11.
It should be pointed out that the reason for reversing the photo-
graphs of the cast is that the cast must show a reversal of the print
in the paraffin. .A photographic reversal of the plaster print produces
a copy of the original print in the paraffin.
Having satisfied myself beyond doubt that the claim regarding the
identity of the alleged supernormal "'Walter" and plaster-cast prints
must fail, I realized the importance of tracing, if possible, a normally
made duplicate impression of one or the other of these impressions.
Knowing that imprints of the fingers and thumbs of Margery were on
record in London I proceeded to examine them.
On examination I was at once struck with the similarity between
the plaster cast imprint and the right thumb impression of Margery.
.A photographic enlargement of Margery's right thumb print
appears on exhibit as number III.
I have carefully scrutinized the photograph of the plaster cast
impression together with the photograph of the normal imprint of
Margery's right thumb, and have marked 18 skin ridge characteristics
on each photograph which are in agreement. I have no hesitation in
saying that the coincident sequence of ridge characteristic data found
in agreement in the plaster cast and Margery's right thumb print
determine definitely the identity of these imprints.
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 215
Mr. Fife in his report draws attention to the very distorted appear-
ance of the plaster print. This is true, but finger print experts are not
easily deceived by 'the distorted appearance of finger impressions.
Identity of finger prints is fixed by the type of ridge characteristic~
disclosed and their appearance in correct sequence.
So far as I am concerned the origin of the so-called ''well known
Walter print'' remains a mystery for the present.
Of this I am certain, that the alleged supernormal imprint on the
paraffin glove of 1\Iay, 1924 is not identical with the frequently pro-
duced and alleged supernormal Walter print, as it is claimed to be,
but is identical with a normal impression of the right thumb of the
medium Margery.
(Signed) W. T. BELL.
XXI.
BER'l' WEN'l'WORTH
Personal Identification
44 Fourth St., Dover, N. H.
B. K. Thorogood, Esq.,
Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir:
Feb. 1, 1933.
On cm·eful examination I find that the plaster of Paris thumb does
not belong to "M" or "C" whose prints I took Jan. 22, 1933, and it
does not belong to the ones where the impressions of the whole palm
and digits were impressed in wax, i.e., "W". That is it does not belong
to any of ·the three that I have and must belong to a fourth individual.
Sinc·erely yours,
(Signed) BER'l' WENTWORTH.
XXII.
Report of John W. Fife on Plaster Cast Marked May 17, 1924.
(Reprinted from Psychic Research, Dec., 1928, pp. 694-695.)
On February 6th, 1927, I received from Dr. L. R. G. Crandon, a
number of finger print impressions made on dental wax. 'l'here were
ten pieees of wax, two of which carried two prints. Examination of
216 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
£ach individual print revealed them to be of the same pattern. In my
opinion they were impressions of a right thumb. They were of the-
loop pattern. In some of these prints the lines from the core flowed
out toward the little finger of a right hand. To all persons familiar
with finger print impressions, this type of pattern is known as an.
ulnar loop.
All but one of these prints were concave as though a living thumb-
had been pres.c;;ed into the soft wax but most of them were not wholly
legible. Among these prints I found one that was identical with two·
other clear prints with the exception that the lines of the core flowed
out to the opposite side of the thumb, as though the print had been
inverted. This print was convex and, because of the slope of the corer
would be known as a radial loop type if it was from a right thumb.
As a finger print student, I realized that never bad two prints been
found to be identical in pattern but the one reversed from right to left.
I also knew that if this second or convex print had been made from one
Df the others by pressing them together, then the second would be
merely the impression of the original print, the ridges of one fitting
into the grooves of the other. But none of the prints which appeared
to have been made by pressing a thumb into the wax were exactly the
same in form or curvature as this single print in which the pattern was
reversed. I became sceptical and curious to know how such a print had
been produced.
I treated these prints with white powder, in order to make it easier
to photograph them, and bad them photographed. A careful study of
the photographs confirmed the previous examination, that one pattern
was the reverse of two of the others.
On March 21st, 1927, I was present at the home of Dr. Crandon, 10
Lime St., Boston, Mass., and attended a seance during which :five print<>
were produced on dental wax. This wax I had previously removed from
a box and examined carefully. After marking the wax for later identi-
fication, I placed one piece at a time in a shallow dish containing hot
water. In approximately five-minute periods, each piece of wax was
out of the dish and lying on the table in front of me with a distinct
print on each, which prints I later identified as being of the same pat-
tern and having the same characteristics as the prints I had previously
examined subsequent to February 6th, 1927.
One of the above prints I found tQ be like the convex print which
I have referred to above. This print had the same pattern as the others
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 217
but reversed from left to right and, like the other convex print, coulil
not have been made by impression from any of the prints.
Although these prints were produced in darkness, in my opinion
they were not made by any living person in the room as I later exam-
ined the prints of each individual present. I was satisfied that the
convex prints had not been made from any of the concave prints and
yet the pattern was the same even to minute details. Microscopic
examination revealed details which were entirely consistent with those
of a living thumb.
My first impression of the convex print, which is incomplete in its
upper portion, was that it might be a mirror image of the normal print
and the photographs of the prints, taken after they had been powdered,
tended to confirm this idea, but upon further study it appeared that
this was a rather imperfect positive model of a thumb having the same
ridge pattern and characteristics as one from which the ,normal negative
prints had been taken. I do not attempt to supply any explanation of
how this could have been done.
I then examined the plaster cast of a hand, marked May 17th, 1924,
and find that the ridges and depressions are clearly mm'ked over most
of the area of the thumb but that the thumb, like the rest of the hand,
is distorted. The ball of the thumb seems to have been pinched up into
a ridge above the core and this gives a different appearance to the pat-
tern in that reg·ion as compared to the wax prints. In spite of the dis-
tortion, the pattern is, in general, identical with that of the wax prints
in the corresponding area. The ridge count from the core to the delta
is the same and the relationship of numerous bifurcations is consistent
with those of the wax prints. In spite of the peculiar distortion of this
thumb I am convinced that it is the same finger print pattern as the
other prints and that it proves that the convex prints above referred to
are actually models of a normal thumb.
I have compared Margery's thumb prints with the ones produced by
"Walter," and found her thumb prints to be of the ulnar type, and that
they revealed some characteristics in the vicinity of the core that are
almost identical with the ones found in the "Walter" prints. Although
their prints resemble each other so far as characteristics are concerned,
they are not the same identical prints. The resemblance is sufficiently
close to show blood relationship.
In comparing both Margery's and "Walter's" prints with those of
their mother, Mrs. Stinson, I found that the patterns and characteristics
218 MARGERY lVIEDIUMSHIP
contained in the prints of all three resemble each other closely enough
to indicate blood relationship. In families there is usually noted a cor-
respondence of special characteristics amounting, in the case of a mother
and son, to as much as seventy-five per cent, and between brother and
sister to fifty per cent.
It is my opinion, based on a most careful examination of the wax
prints originally submitted to me by Dr. Crandon and the prints
obtained at the seance of March 21st, 1927, that these prints have been
made by a living thumb, that the patterns are the same in all the prints
except that some are reversed from the others, that the convex prints
were not made from any of the concave prints which I have seen, that
the prints of March 21st were not made by the thumb of any person in
the room, and that the thumb of the plaster cast carries the same pattern
as the thumb which made the normal wax impressions.
(Signed) JOHN W. FIFE.
19 Chestnut St., Somerville, Mass.
XXIII.
Sitting at 10 Lime Street, February 3, 1927, 8 :30 P.M. in the old
cabinet.
Present: Psyche, Dr. R., Mr. Dudley, Mr. B. Bond, Mrs. R., Dr.
C. (Mrs. Stinson), (Outside the circle).
Trance came on at once. "Walter" whistled and then asked to
have the green light turned off. Question about sequence of evening
before. He said, ''You're a poor lot of researchers if you can't re-
member what happened last night. I am not going to solve your
problems for you.''
Dr. C. : "Have you got your gang with you tonight ~ "
"Walter": "Yes, I've got four with me."
Dr. C.: ''The boys here ~' '
"Walter" : "Yes, and two others."
Dr. C.: "Who, if I may ask~"
"Walter": "You wouldn't know them. I 've got to move this chair
back to get more room for the gang to work. It's not so easy making
these finger prints. I have to have someone to hold them while I press
down on the wax. You don't think I hold it with my nose do you?''
While "Walter" talked, Psyche snored at least once. "Walter"
called for water in pan. Done by Dr. C. "Walter" wanted "Kerr"
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 219
left on table so that he could put it in water when he was ready for it.
Some talk about the monks and the odor of sanctity. ''Walter' '
advised us not to get him started on the subject. Considerable discus-
sion as...to Prince and Worcester and their attitude toward this work.
"Walter": "Put in more bot water!" Done by Dr. C. Sl1ortly
about 9 :00 P.M., "Walter" said, "There is the first one. I've made
two on one piece. Fine!'' Mr. D., ''I hoped you would do that!''
"Walter," "That's right, I never can get ahead of you. You 're
always beating me to it!'' Denied!
"Walter" : •" Empty the water and fill it again." Done. Another
Kerr on the table by Dr. R. "Walter" was aske:l what he used to
support the paper when he was writing on the cross word puzzle
Monday evening. "Walter": "I leaned it against the brimstone."
"\¥alter" asked to have vvater emptied. Done. Dr. C. refilled. IV'hile
doing so "Margery" moaned. When light went out "Walter" said,
''You nearly broke my back that time. You hit me with the kettle.
Didn't you hear the kid react ?''
Shortly, he said, '' 'fhis is great.'' Long, loud whistle. Question,
"Is this the one with elephantiasis ?" "Yes, that's it." lie pushed it
against Dr. R. 's thumb. Asked him if he felt it. Dr. R. said he did.
Said it was bard. "Walter" said it was hot. "Here feel this, isn't it
hot 1" Dr. R., "Warm, perhaps, but not hot." " 1¥ alter": "I've got
your finger-print on that one. Got you identified. I identified the
mold too." (No clear trace of this on 1-vax.) "Walter": "Cloth is
stuck to wax. No, it's not on the prints. No harm clone.' ' "Walter" :
''Empty the water and fill it up. I'll do one more.'' Done. ''Fix cloth
in the pan, and be careful of those other prints.'' Done by Dr. C.
"Walter": "What's the matted You've folded those other moldB
into the cloth. It's lucky you didn't put them in the hot water and
spoil them. You've pulled the cloth clear over to the encl. Oh, well,
I '11 fix it. Wax is stuck to cloth, but they '11 come off all right.'' Later
he said, "It is perfect. Well I 'm going now. I'm exhausted." (Voice
sounded tired.)
Agreed to Saturday night test of lights. Sitting closed at 9 :50 P.M.
"MARGERY" SEANCE OF 'fuESDAY, AuGUST 23, 1927, A'l' LIME ST'REE'r.
The circle proper ran, clockwise : ''Margery'', Bird, Pierce, Mrs.
Pierce, Hutchinson (of Cincinnati) , Crandon, Fife and "Margery"
again. There were present in the room fourteen other persons who
are fully listed in Crandon's memorandum of the seance.
220 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Throughout the seance, save at moments when he was obliged to
manipulate the water vessels, Fife had the psychic's right hand with-
out interruption. Bird had her left throughout the seance without
interruption except once when he gave it to Pierce while manipulating
the scales and once when he left the room in search of apparatus. Fife
throughout and Bird except one short interval, had their grips on the
psychic's hands upon her corresponding knee, thereby affording a large
measure of foot control.
The first act was given with the luminous basket with all control
of the psychic as described. This was freely levitated. and rocked on
the table. Amongst other gyrations it was hung around Bird 's neck
and removed. After quite a lot of this, at "Walter's" suggestion
Pierce got on the floor under the table and controlled the psychic's two
feet directly. Bird transferred her hand to his left and with his right
reached into the cabinet to control her head. Under this absolute con-
trol of her five extremities the action of the basket continued. Bird 's
hand, however, having found the top of the psychic's head rather than
her mouth, "Walter" insisted upon giving a repetition with Bird 's
hand directly over the psychic's mouth. In both these episodes levita-
tion was excellent.
During the basket levitation the doughnut was on the table right
side down. On two or three occasions it was held in a vertical position
and moved freely about over a considerable area.
Articles were called for, for identification. Bird supplied two of
the wooden block letters which were successfully named. Pierce sup-
plied a handkel'chief of such size as to constitute a family joke; "Wal-
ter" with unusual promptness said "Some folks mig·ht call this a hand-
kerchief, but I would call it a tablecloth". One or two other features
less identification were effected and finally Hutchinson contributed an
object, making a remark or two which made it plain that it was a very
tough proposition. It made a metallic sound as it was dropped into the
basket. " Walter" handled it for a while and agreed that it was a
tough one; presently he said that it was not one object, it was two
objects together and Hutchinson agreed; and then he said after an-
other interval that one of the objects was a match-box. He fussed for
quite a while but could only say that the other was like a coin but was
not a coin. The object was then passed first to Bird and later to Pierce
to see what they could do with it with one hand in the dark. Bird was
very confident that he would not have been able to decide that one-half
MARGERY MEDIUMSI-IIP 221.
of the assembly was a match-box ; but this was in fact correct according
to Hutchinson. Pierce agreed with Bird here and neither of them ·had
the remotest idea what the rest of the assembly 'vas. In point of fact
it was a safe deposit key, so assembled into the match-box that only the
circul ar handle of the key could be found unless a very difficult task
of disengagement were performed.
The voice machine was used successfully under the usual conditions,
plus the fact that Pierce stood up and held his hand immediately above:
the open top of the U. "Walter" followed this by a series of rapid
eclipses to the various sitters of the two luminous fioa:ts. Somebody
rather defied him to eclipse the luminous top of the tube and he clirl this
although no sitter could reach it without standing up.
Pierce, Twatchmann and Fife each had a piece of marked Kerr.
"Walter " announced his readiness to go on to the thumb-print episode
and this was clone, Fife doi~g all the manipulations with the water and
Bird recovering each finished print from the cold bowl. Before the
thing got under way Fife asked "Walter" if he could not produce a
left thumb by way of variety. During his work on the three prints and
after they had been delivered "Walter" repeatedly made· remarks to
the general effect that Fife and Dudley were going to have their eyes
knocked out by the results. After the seance when the three prints wer~
examined Fife pronounced them identical ; different from the print
known as " Walter's" right thumb; and consistent in form with the
theory th at they represented a left thumb. All sitters within reach of
the table whose prints were not on file had their thumb-prints taken and
none of these corresponded with the seance prints.
The last act consisted of the scales. Pierce was instructed to put
four weights on one pan and one on the other, at his own pleasure. He
put the four on the west pan. There was excellent dynamic levitation
in several periods of red light and finally while Bird lifted the scales
unit off the table to a height of about two feet the white flash was used
freely together with exploration by the hands of the sitters.
Bird and Fife reported cold breezes to an unusual degree. The
psychic was in trance during the levitation, identification, and thumb-
print episodes. She came out for the V. C. 0 . and remained out for
the scales. The trance was unusually quiet as regards both voice and
movement.
(Signed ) BIRD.
222 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
XXIV.
My Dear Dr. Crandon:
Louisville, Ky.,
F ebruary 16, 1933.
Your letter dated February 2d just reached me today it having been
addressed to Cincinnati, and remailed from there.
Referring to the question asked I will give you as complete a resume
of the sitting in question as I remember.
On the night in question you handed to me a piece of wax, asking
me to mark with a private mark, which I did. On going upstairs to
the seance room, I was seated with others in the middle of the front
row, opposite the table and cabinet. On the table two pans were placed
with a water bottle. At my right at the table was seated Captain Fi:Ee,
at my left Mr. Bird, you being seated behind Captain Fife. In one pan
cold water, in the other hot water from a Thermos bottle I believe.
At the commencement Captain Fife reque ted " Walter" that as
all thumb prints previously made were of the right thumb, could he
give us the left thumb. " Walter" answered that he would see or try.
I do not recollect who placed the first wax in the hot water bath, but
when called upon to put mine in I r eached for the pan and placed the
wax in the water slightly scalding my fingers in the operation. After
listening to the movements seemingly of wax in the pans, I was l1anded
the wax by Mr. Bird and he suggested wrapping a handkerchief around
it until the seance vl'as over, which I did.
Dr. 'l'wachtman, who was also given a wax was called upon and he,
squeezing· through the front row, placed his in the pan, and when told
it was ready, could not get through, and it was handed to me, and I
gave it to him.
On going downstairs our finger prints were taken, and the three
waxes were examined by Captain Fife, Bird and Dudley. Captain Fife
exclaimed, "Why these are all left thumb prints !" On examining the
prints I think it was Fife said that these two are the best for photo-
graphing, and one was handed to me, by, I think, Mr. Dudley. I was
very glad to have it given to me. I did not make any request for it,
in fact not expecting it at all. I compared the mark, a letter H , and
saw that it was the one I marked. 'fhere was no remarks of the kind
suggested made to me or by me, and the one shipped to Mr. Carrington
MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP 223
is the same one I received the night in question, it never having left
my possession at any time until now.
Knowing nothing of finger prints I could not say if it is right or
left, except as said by others who know.
My report to the Curtis Society, if in existence, I know will cover
the same story, as also the one I wrote to Mr. Carrington when requested.
Trusting that this will cover the matter, and anxiously awaiting the
fuller details of the matter, of which I, as yet, know comparatively
nothing, having· seen only the Boston Bulletin.
My highest regards to yourself and Mrs. Crandon, I am
Yours truly,
(Signed) W. L. Hutchinson.
XXV.
WILBUR F. 'l'U RNER
Expert Examiner and Photographer of Questioned Documents
61 Hanover Street, Boston
Mr. B. K. Thorogood,
41 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.
Dear Sir:
F eb. 15, 1933.
I have made an examination of the figures on eight photographs.
My opinion is that the figures on waxes numbered ~47-~48-pO and
other figures marked in blue pencil were written by the same person
that wrote the figures 8-23-27, ~1 and ~3. In fact all the figures I have
marked with a blue pencil were written by the same person.
Very truly yours,
(Signed) W. F. T URNER.
_
W.F.T./ M.T.P.
Numbers refer to individual waxes in the group of waxes shown in
Fig. 43. Also to waxes shown in Figures 51, 52, 107a and 108.
2:?4 MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP
XXVI.
Prel1:mina1·y Report
The undersigned at the request of the American Society for Psychi-
cal Research are making a systematic study of a recent unsigned exhibit
consisting of four photographs with brief description purporting to
f!how that the thumb impressions (made in dental compound Kerr) of
the so-called "Walter" prints are identical with the ordinary ink
prints of the thumb of Dr. "X".
After comparing this photographic exhibit with the actual wax im-
pression of the "Walter" thumbs in our possession, some of which were
made coincident with the wax which this photograph is purported to
represent, as well as those of earlier and later elates, we find:
That all evidence at this time tends to show that the actual ink
prints of the thumbs of Dr. "X" do not correspond with the authentic
wax impressions in our files of the ."Walter" thumbs.
Further, the classification of the hands of Dr. ''X'' and those of
"Walter" are far from identical both as regards finger print pattern
and palm pattern.
A formal report will be presented covering the complete details as
soon as all facts accumulated over the long period of years can be
scientifically analyzed.
,June 8, 1932.
Respectfully submitted,
BRACKETT K. T HOROGOOD
(Signed) JOHN W. FIFE
RALPH G0 ADAMS
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Listec1 below are same of the references used by the writer in the preparation of
this 1·eport as well as some publications which contain data pertinent to the subject.
ThP. list by no means forms a complete bibliography.
Alix. ''Recherches sur Ja clisposition des lignes papillaires de la main et du pied.''
Ann. Sc. Nat. Zool. T., IX, 1868.
Bonnevie, K. ''Main Hesults of a Statistical Investigation of Finger Prints from
24,518 individuals.'' Eugenics, Genetics, and Family, Vol. 1, 1923a.
Bramwell, J. Mill. ' ' Hypnotism.'' Hider & Co., London.
Bulletin of the Museum of Fine Arts. "Photography in Ultra-Violet Light."
Boston, June, 1933. Vol. XXXI, No. 185.
Can, H. A. ''Visual Illusion of Depth.'' Psychological Heview, 1909.
Can, Wildon. ''The Metaphysical Implications of the Theory of Helativity.''
Philosophical Heview, Jan., 1'91,5.
Cevidalli, A. '' Sulle linee papillari delle dita della mano.'' Atti della Soc. Nat.
e Mat. eli Modena, Ser. IV, Vol. VIII, 1906.
"Nuovo ricerche per lo studio antropologico della mano. P. I. Le linee
papillal'i della clita.'' Arch. eli Biol. ·norm. e patol, 1•
908. Contr. all. stud.
della linee papillari in rapporto delle creditarieta. Boll. della Soc. Med. Ohir.
eli Moc1ena. Ann. 13, 1911.
Clark and Lhamon. Anatomical Hecorcl., 1917, Vol. XII.
Comstock, D. F. ''The Pl'inciple of Helativity.'' Science, May 20, 1910, Vol. 31,
p. 767.
Cooke, '1'. G. ''Finger Prints, Secret Service, Crin1e Detection. '' Finger Print Pub.
Ass 'n, Chicago, 4th Eel.
Cummins, I-I. 1930. "Dermatoglyphics in Negroes of West Africa (Liberia and
Siena Leone)." Am. J . Phys. Anthrop., Vol. 14.
1930. ''Dermatoglyphics in Indians of Southern Mexico and Central
America." Am. J. Pl1ys. Anthrop., Vol. 15.
Cummins, H., anc1 C. Midlo. 1926. ''Palmar and P lantar Epidermal Ridge Con-
figurations (Dermatoglyphics) in European-Americans." Am. J. Phys.
Anthrop., Vol. 9.
Cummins, H ., anc1 C. Miello. 1927. "Dennatoglyphics in Jews. " Am. J . P hys.
Anthrop., Vol. 10.
Cummins, H., H. I-I. Keith, C. Miello, H. B. Montgomery, H . H . Wilder and I. W.
Wilder. 1928. ''Study of Error in Interpretation and Formulation of
Palmar Dermatoglyphics.'' Am. J. Phys. Anthrop., Vol. 11.
1929. "Hevisec1 Methods of Interpreting and Formulating Palmar Der-
matoglyphics." Am. J. Phys. Anthrop., Vol. 12.
Cummins and McClure. ''Bimanual Variation in Palmar Dermatoglyphics.'' The
Amer. Jour. of Anat., Vol. 48, No. 1, May, 1931.
Daae, Anders. "uber Fingerabdrilcke u deren Venvendung zur Inclentitiitsfeststel-
lung.'' Zeitschr. schweiz StrafTecht, Jahrg. VII, 1.g04.
D 'Abunclo. '' Contr. all. stud. delle impronte digitali.'' Arch. di Psichiati·., Pisa,
1891.
'' Le impronte c1igitale in 140 criminali. ''
De Vesme, Caesar. ''Experimental Spiritualism.''
de Brath. Hider & Son, London, 1•931.
"Experimental Spiritualism." (Vol. II.)
Rider & Son, London, 1931.
225
Hiforma Medica, 1894.
(Vol. I.) Translated by Stanley
Translated by Fred Rothwell.
226 MARGERY l\IIEDIUMSHIP
Eddington, A. S. "Nature of the Physical i'Vorld." Macmillan, New York, 1929.
''Space, 'l'ime and Gravitation.'' Univ. Press, Cambridge, 1921.
Eddington, A. S., and others. "The Deflection of Light by Gravitation and the
Einstein Theory of Relativity. '' The Report of the British Eclipse Expedi·
tion to the Royal Society. Scientific Monthly, Jan., 1920.
Einstein, A. ''Time, Space and Gravitation.'' Science, Ganison, 1920, Jan. 3,
n.s., Vol. 51, pp. 8-10.
Flammarion, Camille. "Lumen." New York: Dodd, Meacl and Co., 1897.
Fosdick, Raymond B. "Etuopean Police Systems." Century Co., New York, 1915.
Freeman, Frank N. "The Handwriting Movement." Univ. Press, Chicago, 1918.
Galton, Fr. ''The Patterns in Thumb- and Finger-Marks.'' Proc. Royal Soc.,
London, Vol. XLVIII, 1890. Fil1ger-PTints, London, 1892.
''The Patterns in Thumb- and Finger-Marks.'' Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc.,
London, Vol. CLXXXII, 1892.
"Personal Identification." Journal Royal Institute, May 25, 1888.
''Finger-Print Directories.'' J_,ondon, 1895.
"Prints of Scars." Natme, Vol. LIII, 1896.
'' Finger-P1·ints of Young Children. '' Rep. Brit. Assoc., Dover, 1899, 1'900.
Gasti, G. ''Sui disegni papillari.'' Att. del. Soc. Rom. Antluopol., Vol. XIII, 1907.
Geley, Gustave. ''From the Unconscious to the Conscious.'' Translated by Stanley
de Bmth. William Collins & Son, London, 1920.
'' ClaiTvoyance and Materialisation. '' Translated by Stanley de Erath. T.
Fisher Unwin Co., London, 1927.
Gnty's Anatomy. XXI Eel., 1924. Revised by W. H. Lewis. Lea & Febiger.
Greeley, A. W. '' E:~:periments on the Physical Structure of Protoplasm of Para-
mecium; and Its Reaction to Thermal and Electrical Stinmli.'' Bioi. Bull.,
Vol. 7, p. 3.
Harcly, W. B. ''Differences of Electrical Potential Within the Living Cell.''
Journ. Physiol., Vol. 4'7, p. 108.
Hasebe, K. "uber das Hautleistensystem der Vola u. Planta der J apauer u. Aino."
Arb. Anat. Inst. d Kais, Japan, Univ. Sendai H, 1, 1918.
Hcilbrunn, L. V. ''Colloid Chemistry of Protoplasms.'' Borntraeger, Berlin, 1928.
"Physical Effects of Anesthetics on Living Protoplasm." Biol. Bull.,
Vol. 39, p. 317.
Heindl, Robert. 1927. ''System und Praxis der Daktyloskopie. '' 3rd Ed. W. de
Gruyter & Co., Berlin and Leipzig.
Henry, E. R. "Classification and Uses of Finger Prints." T. Fisher Unwin,
London, 1913.
Herschel, Wm. J. ''Origin of Finger-Printing.'' London, Oxford Univ., 1916.
Holt, James. ''Finger-Prints Si mplified. ' ' Freelerick J. Drake & Co., Chicago, 1920.
Hantington, Edward V. "A New Approach to the Theory of Relativity." Fest-
schrift Heinrich Weber, Leipzig, 1912, pp. 147-169.
Jacolliot, Louis. ''Occult Science in Inclia. '' Translated by Wm. L. Felt. Rider &
Son, Lonclon, 191·9.
James, William. ''Principles of Psychology.'' Hemy Holt & Co., 1•
904.
Jastrow, Joseph. ''A Study of the Zollner Figures.'' Am. Journ. Psycho!., 1891.
Johnson, A. H. ''Pads on the Palm and Sole of the Human Fetus.'' Amer. Nat.,
Vol. XXXIII, 1899.
Jorgensen, Hakon. "Distant Identification in One-Finger Registration." Publica-
tions of International Police Conference, New York, 1923.
Keith, H. H. 1924. "Racial Differences in the Papillary Lines of the Palm."
Am. J. Phys. Anthrop., Vol. 7.
MARGERY lVIEDIUlVISHIP 227
K eyser, C. J . ''Concerning the Figure and the Dimensions of the Universe of
Space.'' Science, June 13, 1913.
Kidel, W. ''The Papillary Ridges :mel P apillary Layer of the Corium in the Mam·
mali::m Hand and F oot." Journ. Anat. Phys., Vol. XLI, 1907.
'' 'rhe Sense of 'l'ouch in Mammals and Birds with Especial Reference to
Papillary Ridges. ' ' London, 1907 (known from a review in Science, 1908).
Kuhne, Frederick. '' Finger Print Instructor.'' Mann & Co., 1917.
Kollmann, Arthur. ''Der Tastapparat der Hanel.'' Hambmg u. Leipzig, 1883.
''Der Tastapparat des Fusses von Affe u. Mensch. ' ' Arch. Anat. u. Entw.,
Anat. J ahrg. 1885.
LaChaTel, L. W. " Finger-Print Characteristics." Journal Am. Institute Criminal
Law & Criminology, Chicago, August, 1919.
L adcl-Franldin. '' Colour and Colour Theories.' ' Harcourt, Brace & Co.
Laufer, Berthold. ''History of the Finger-Print System.' ' Smithso11ian Institution,
Washington, D. C. Annual Report for 1912, pp. 631-652.
Lee, C. D. "Finger Print Forgeries." Finger Print Magazine, Vol. VI, No. 12,
June, 1925.
Lodge, Sir Oliver. ''The New Theory o:f' Gravity.'' Nineteenth Century, Dec., 1910.
'' 'l'he Ether versus Relativity.'' Fortnightly Heview, J an., 1.920.
Lorentz, H. A. ' 'Considerations elementaires sur le principe de relativite.'' Hevue
generale des sciences, Paris, 1•
914, Tome 2·5, pp. 179- 186.
Luciani, Luigi. ''Human Physiology.'' Macmillan, 1913.
Luckiesh, M. "Visual Illusions and Their Application." D. Van Nostrand, 1922.
"Ultraviolet Radiation." D. Van Nostrand, 1927.
McDougall, Wm . " Physical Basis of Mental Dissociation." British Medical Jour-
lJal, Oct. 24, 1908.
'' Outli11es of Abn ormal P sychology. '' Charles Scribner, 192·6.
Michelson, A. A., aml Morley, E. W. ''The Helative Motion of tbe Earth and the
Luminiferous Ether.'' American Journal of Science, 1887, Vol. 34, p. 333.
Minkowski, Hermann; Lorentz, H. A. ; Einstein, A. ''Des Helativitatsprinzip.' '
Fortschritte der Mathematil<er \V'issenschaften. Druch uncl Verlag von B. G.
'reubner, Leipzig, 1913.
Mitchell, T. IV. ''Medical P sychology and Psychic Hesearch. ''
Montgomery, R. B. 1925. ' ' Sole Prints of N ewborn Babies.'' Am. Jour. Med.
Sci., CLXIX.
Miil1l, Anita M. ''Automatic Writing.' ' Steiukopff, Dresden and Leipzig, 1930.
Mlinsterberg, Hugo. '' Symposium on the Subconscious.' ' Joum. of Abnormal
P sychology, Vol. 2, 1917.
Myers, F. I·
V. H. ''Huma n P ersonality and Its Survival of Personal Death.''
L ongmans, London.
N ewman , H . H. 1913. '"rhe Modes of Inheritance of Aggregates of Meristic
(Integral) Variates in the Poly.embryonic Offspring of the Nine·Bandcd
Armadillo.'' Journ. Exp. Zool., XV.
19J..6. "Heredity and Organic Symmetry in Anuadillo Quaclmplets. I.
Modes of Inheritance of Band Anomalies. II. Modes of Inheritance of
Double Scutes and a Discussion of Organic Symmetry.'' Bioi. Bull., XXX.
1917. "The Biology of Twins. " Chicago.
1923. ' ' The Physiology of Twinning.'' Chicago.
J..928. ' ' ~ tuclies of Human Twins. I. Methods of Diagnosing :Mono·
zygotic anc
l Di zygotic Twins. II. Asymmetry Reversal, or Mirror-Imaging in
I dentical Twins. " Ibid, LV.
Nutting, P. G. "Retinal Sensibilities." Transactions I.E.S., 1916.
Osty, Eugene and Marcel. '' L es Pouvoirs Inconnus de l 'Esprit sur Jar Matiere.''
Libraire F elix Alcan, P aris, 1932.
228 MARGERY MEDIUMSHIP
Osty, Eugene. ''Supernormal Faculties in Man.'' Translated by Stanley de Erath_
Methuen & Co., London, 1923.
Planck, Dr. Max. "Universe in the Light of Modern Physics. " W. W. Norton &.
Co., New York, 1931.
Poincare, Henri. "Science and Method." New York, The Science PTess, 1913.
Priest, I. G. '' Spectro-Distribution of Energy Required to Evoke the Gmy Sensa-
tion." Scientific Paper 417, Bmean of Standards.
Ribeiro, L., and Salles, M. '' ATqnivos do Instituto Medico-Legal e do Cabinete de·
Identifica<}!iO.'' Rio de J aneiro, 1932. The same for 1933.
Rosanoff, Aaron J. ''Manual of Psychiatry.'' J. Wiley & Sons, 1927.
Russell, Be1·ti·and. '' 'rhe Relativity Theory of Gravitation.'' English Review, Dec.,.
1919.
Seymour, Lee. ''Finger Print Classification.'' Los Angeles, privately published,.
1913.
de Sitter, W. ''On Einstein's Theory of Gravitation, anc1 Its Astronomical Conse-
quences.'' Royal Astronomical Society, Monthly Notices, London, 1915-1918.
Smitl1, W. W. "A Theory ancl Mechanism of Survival." Dutton, New York, 1920..
Southall. ''Minors, Prisms, Lenses. '' Macmillan Co.
Steggerda, M. D. 1929. ''Palmar Dermatoglyphics in Negro-White Crosses.''
Carnegie Inst. of Washington, pub. p. 395.
Strong, A. MeL 1929. ''An Improved Method of Palm-Printing.'' Science, VoL
69, No. 1783.
VeThoeff and Bell. ''Pathological Effects of Radiation Energy on the Eye. '' Pro-
ceedings American Academy Arts and Sciences, 1916.
Wehde, Albert, and Beffel, John N. "Finger-Prints Can Be Forged." Tremonia.
Pub. Co., Chicago, 1924.
Wentworth, Bert, ancl Wilder, H. H . "Personal Identification." Finger Print
Publishing Assoc., Chicago, 1932.
·wildeT, H. H. 1904. "Duplicate Twins and Double Monsters." Amel'. Journ_
Anat., III.
1904. ''Racial Differences in Palm and Sole Configuration.'' Amer..
Anthrop., Vol. 6.
1916. "Palm and Sole Studies." Bioi. Bull., Vol. 30.
1922. ''Racial Differences in Palm and Sole Configuration. Pahn and
Sole Prints of Japanese and Chinese. " Am. J. Phys. Anthrop., Vol. 5.
Wilcler, Harris Hawthorne, and Wentwo1-th, Bert. ''Personal Identification.'' Rich-·
al'd Badger, Boston, 1918.
Wilson ancl Lewis. ''The Time-Space Manifold. '' P1·oceeclings of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, Nov., 1912, Vol. 48, pp. 389-506.
Young, P. C. ''A General Review of tl1e Literature of Hypnotism.'' PsychoL
Bulletin, Vol. XXIV, p. 540, Sept., 1927.
Zollner, J. C. F. '' Transcenclental Physics.'' Translated by C. C. Massey. W. H.
Harrison, London, 1882.
