{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__udney___a_help_to_worship_in_the_liberal_catholic_church.pdf","mytitle":"A Help To Worship In The Liberal Catholic Church","mylang":"de"}
~ Ji::£1.'J!tSIJi:iUO!'.HHHH~HH,
aA HELP TO WORSHIP IN THE ~
~ LIBERAL CATHOLIC CHURCH ~
~ ·Being a Sturfy of Her Eucharistic Service ~
~ · and of fhe Nicene Creed ~
~ E. FRANCIS UDNY ~
~ Foreword by the Rt. Rev. ~1
~ F. W. PIGOTT ~-
~ ~
~ ~
~--- ~
~ ~
~ ~
~ ~
~ ~
~ ~
~ ~
~
Priu T~SbHG,y ~I. ~
~)F.t{~~~~~~~~~JR!~~lR!
A HELP TO
WORSHIP
t I • )
By the same author
TH'E ORIGINAL CHRISTIANITY
Edson, Printers, Ltd., Springdale Rd.,
N. r6, 1924.
German Version: "DAs URCHRISTXN·
TUM."
Stern im Osten-Verlag, Andr. Piehl,
Vienna VI., 1925.
French Version : " LE CHRlSTIANISMi:
PRIMITIF.''
Editions Adyar, 4 Square Rapp, Paris
VI!e, 1926.
AND
LATER INCARNATIONS OF
FRANCIS BACON
Edson, Printers, Ltd., Springdale Rd.,
N. 16, 1926.
A HELP TO WORSHIP
IN THE LIBERAL CATHOLIC
CHURCH
Being a Study of her Eucharistic Service
and of the Nicene Creed
By
E. FRANCIS UDNY
Priest, M.A.
Foreword by the Rt. Rev.
F. W. PIGOTT
M.A.
THE THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE LIMITED
38 GREAT ORMOND STREET LONDON W.C. 1
So y
The Theosophical Press
Wheaton, Illinois
First Published I 927
?JUNlED IN GHAT BRITAIN BY TRB WHITE.FllURS PRJCSS1 LTD.,
LONDON AND TONBRIDCS.
CHAPTl>R
CONTENTS
FOREWORD
PREFACE •
I. THE PURPOSE OF THE MASS
II. FROM AsPERGES TO ABSOLUTION
III. THE FIRST CENSING
IV. INTROIT, K YRIE AND GLORIA
v. FROM COLLECTS TO CREED
VI. FROM THE OFFERING OF THE ELEMENTS TO
PAGE
VI
VII
I
7
I3
20
26
THE SANCTUS 30
VII. THE CONSECRATION AND FOLLOWING HYMNS 38
VIII. THE PouRING OuT OF THE FORCE • 44
IX. FROM HoLY COMMUNION TO THE FINAL
BLESSINGS •
x. THE NICENE CREED
v
FOREWORD
I HAVE read this book in MS. with very great interest and
enjoyment. Without committing myself to all the opinions
expressed therein of a doctrinal nature, especially on the
doctrine of the Trinity, I can heartily commend the book
to all who wish to have a fuller understanding of the beautiful
Eucharistic Service of our Church and so to co-operate more
effectually with the celebrant and the assistant ministers.
~ F. w. PIGOTT.
Sexagesima, 1927.
VJ
PREFACE
ONE who studies carefully our Presiding Bishop's books,
" The Science of the Sacraments " and " The Christian
Creed " will need no further help in understanding the
Liberal Catholic liturgy of the Holy Eucharist ; but the
number of people who can afford to buy those books and can
find time to study them is limited. Without doing that, it is
possible to acquire such a general understanding as will enable
· one to join in the service more efficiently than would other-
wise be possible. There is a great difference between coming
unprepared and coming fully prepared, but halfa loaf is better
than no bread, and to provide the half loaf is the purpose of
this book.
Quotations from " The Science of the Sacraments " are
indicated simply by quotation marks. The author takes this
opportunity ofexpressing the deep debt ofgratitude which, in
common with thousands of others, he owes to Bishop Lead-
beater for his splendid exposition of Sacraments now for the
first time understood.
Our liturgy is a mine of truth and beauty, of which but
little has been brought out in this book, but others will dig
for themselves, and may be sure of being rewarded for their
pains.
The opinions of our Church as a body are set forth in
its liturgy and "Statement of Principles." For opinions
expressed in this book the author is alone responsible.
Vll
A HELP TO WORSHIP
CHAPTER I
THE PURPOSE OF THE MASS
OuR liturgy provides alternative forms of the Mass (as our
brethren of the Roman Communion call it)-a longer and a
shorter. The longer follows more closely the Roman form,
and gives the congregation more time to prepare themselves
for the work in which they are taking part, while the shorter
omits all that is not really indispensable, and corresponds more
closely with the invisible happenings, thus bringing the wor-
shipper's intelligence more into play. The shorter form is
better for our immediate purpose and will be taken here,
except as regards the Nicen~ Creed (which occurs only in the
longer) and one or two other points.
The liturgy is well adapted to the purpose of the Mass,
which is to draw down our Lord's blessing and distribute it
over a neighbourhood, say, for a quarter of a mile round the
church. This adaptation can be dimly perceived without
special preparation, but there is far more that cannot be seen
without a knowledge of things with which the ordinary
churchman is unfamiliar.
Let us consider a little llow the blessing is" drawn down."
Above or within the physical world around us, are subtler
worlds of what, for want of a better word, we must still call
matter. These interpenetrate the physical and actually
2 A HELP TO WORSHIP
occupy the same space. Our present senses do not reveal
them, but in each of these worlds, on each of these planes as
they are sometimes called, we already possess rudimentary
bodies which, as we grow spiritually, will gradually be brought
into full use-in future lives if not in the present one-and
will enable us to live and work on those planes as freely and
fully as we already do on the physical.
Now for each individual life, in whatever kingdom it may
be, human, sub-human or super-human, there is a certain
level or plane on which the consciousness at its present stage
ofevolution is centred, is more vivid than it is above or below
that level. The consciousness of the Supreme Being of our
solar system (the sun and planets, including our earth, that
circle round it) is centred in this sense above the seven planes
of the system, including the highest Nirvanic. "The Lord's
seat is in heaven." The Solar Deity, or Logos, "breathes
forth His own divine life into His universe," even down to
the physical plane, but that life is present in fuller measure on
the next higher plane, the emotional or astral, and so on for
each succeeding plane.
The method of bringing the splendour and intensity of His
life down to the three lower planes-mental, emotional and
physical-is by "entangling," as it were, matter of the won-
derful Nirvanic plane, first in buddhic matter, and that again
in mental, and then in emotional and physical matter. This
is done for us in the Mass by means of the consecrated bread
and wine. The physical material remains unaffected, but
the substance (not in the ordinary sense of material, but in
the Latin sense of sub-stans) that which underlies or stands
under the bread and wine-their counterparts on higher
planes-has been utterly changed: That " substance " is
now the divine life as manifested in our blessed Lord, the
W odd-Teacher. The sacred elements are as truly replete
with His life as if they were literally His flesh an_
d His blood,
THE PURPOSE OF THE MASS 3
and He stood among us as He did ofold in Palestine, and soon
will be standing once more.
When we take such bread and wine into our own bodies,
the wonderful vibrations of His life begin to play on these,
quite overpowering at first our own habitual vibrations-
emotional, physical and mental-but gradually the higher life
begins to be lost, a~ though by a sort of evaporation. The
higher matter which has been " brought down " become&
disentangled from the lower, in which for a time it was en-
cased, and is set free again on its own level, high above ours.
Then our own vehicles ofconsciousness resume their ordinary
vibrations, though only approximately so, for the vehicles
have been affected permanently, however slightly, by the
magnificent vibrations to which they have been submitted,
and we have thus received an appreciable aid on our long
pilgrimage of many lives towards human perfection.
It is a convenient abbreviation to speak of " drawing
down" a blessing, but what really happens is that the priest
(who was ordained for that purpose among others) calls our
Lord's attention to what we ar.e doing, and He Himself pours
down the blessing. It is He Who is the real Officiant in all
Sacraments of the Church. It is at the words, "Wherefore,
0 holy Lord," immediately before the consecration, that His
attention is gained, and He sends a thought-form of Him-
self to establish the line of communication along which the
blessing will be sent. This form is called the " Angel of the
Presence " (from the Greek angelos, a messenger), though it
is not really a member of the Angel evolution but a thought-
form in matter ofthe mental plane, reproducing with accuracy
the appearance of His own physical body, in which He is
living and working for the world He loves. He has His own
house and large garden in the Himalayan mountains (where
so many ofthe Holy Ones resid-
e) somewhere on the Southern
slopes overlooking the plains of India. The Angel of the
A HELP TO WORSHIP
Presence is connected with Him by a line of living fire like a
flash oflightning standing still ; and when the celebrant says,
"This is My body," "This is My blood," that line is ex-
tended by his thought to the wafers which are to be conse-
crated and to the wine, or to speak precisely unfermented juice
of the grape, which is used for consecration in our churches.
The reader may find it difficult to conceive of the Christ
as wearing a physical body and residing in a house-because
he has been in the habit of identifying the Teacher of Pales-
tine with the Second Person of the Trinity. But if he will
remember that our Lord walked as a man among men, and
never claimed to be other than human (however much holier
than other men He may have been), then these things will not
appear so incongruous, as they would undoubtedly be in con-
nection with God the Son, Who makes the heaven His throne
and the earth His footstool.
The ordinary man knows nothing of any intervening link
between " the man on the omnibus " and the Blessed Three ;
but occult philosophy is familiar with the idea of a vast
range of holy Beings between ourselves and the Supreme
Being of our solar system.
Even on our earth, and leaving out of account the still
greater Officials of the system as a whole, there is a ladder of
superhuman Beings extending from the man who has just
attained Masterhood up to the Lord of the World-God's
appointed Representative for this globe ; and on that ladder
there is room for great differences of rank and power.
Ofthe World-Teacher a Master has said, "We are as dust
beneath His feet " ; and yet the great World-Teacher Him-
self is less exalted than the Lord of the World, for Whom
He acts as Minister of Religions.
Some idea of these differences in rank may be obtained by
considering a statement which has been made, that the causal
body (or higher mind) of a Master extends to a distance of
THE PURPOSE OF THE MASS 5
about a mile around Him-the causal body of the World-
Teacher to between two and three miles-the causal body of
a Lord Buddha to about three miles-and the causal body of
the Lord of the World includes the whole globe, and must
therefore have a radius of thousands of miles.
It is important for the worshipper to realise that the bless-
ing thus poured down is a definite force, just as much as elec-
tricity or magnetism, and equally capable of measurement by
appropriate methods. The force is stored, and accumulates,
in a "spiritual temple" which is built by an Angel over the
heads of the congregation, out of subtle matter thrown off
from their own emotional and mental bodies (their hearts and
minds) as they offer praise and prayer. This fact is plainly
stated in the words said by the priest immediately after the
Absolution-" With praise and with prayer shall our Temple
be built." The more heartily we lift up our hearts and
minds, and the more clearly we understand what we are
doing, the better both in quality and quantity will be the
.material supplied for the Temple.
At the proper time, towards the end of the service, the
force which has accumulated in the Temple is poured out
over the surrounding neighbourhood, raising and purifying
the vibrations of all whom it reaches. Each is helped just in
proportion to the effort he or she is making to lead a loving
and useful life. To effect this distribution is the purpose of
the prayer which follows the Commemoration of the Saints.
In that prayer we ask that the blessing which He gives us in
the holy Sacrament may be spread abroad upon His world, to
the end that His many children may know themselves to be
one in Him.
To send our Lord's love and blessing to the surrounding
world is the primary purpose of the Mass, and every wor-
shipper should clearly understand the unselfish and glorious
nature of the work in which he is privileged to share. He
6 A HELP TO WORSHIP
does not, or should not, come for his own sake alone, but
rather for the helping of the world. That purpose should be
at the back of our minds, as far as possible, all the time ; and
the more we can realise it, and the less we think ofourselves,
the more efficient will our service be. The whole congrega-
tion should try to think ofthemselves as united in one common
act ofservice to God and man.
CHAPTER II
FROM ASPERGES TO ABSOLUTION
THE Mass, like all our services, begins with an invocation
of the Holy Trinity, which has, we are told, an immediate
and visible effect on the aura of the priest. Then follows the
~prinkling of holy water, over which a blessing has previously
been invoked. This sprinkling of holy water is called the
Asperges, from the first word of the accompanying prayer in
the Latin Mass, which means " Thou shalt sprinkle." The
object of the sprinkling is to effect a preliminary purification
of the psychic atmosphere, thus making it possible for the
Angel, whose presence is about to be invoked, to build a
spiritual Temple. It is the force stored in the water, rather
than the water itself, which does the work, and the priest's
thought and will carry that to the end ofthe church. It is not
necessary to use much water.
The Angel who comes in response to the prayer " that He
will send His holy Angel " is termed the Angel of the Mass,
and is not to be confused with the greater Angels who come
at the words " Therefore with Angels and Archangels " in
the Preface to the Sanctus, nor with the Angel of the Pre-
sence, which, as we have seen, is really a thought-form pro-
jected by our Lord. That form, which is instinct with
His life and consciousness, comes immediately before the
consecration and leaves us soon afterwards-with a lovely
smile at the mention of Himself when we pray that the
Angel of the Presence may " bear our oblation to Thine
altar on high there to be offered by Him Who, as the
7
8 A HELP TO WORSHIP
eternal High Priest, for ever offers Himself as the eternal
Sacrifice."
The Angels whose presence is invoked in the Preface are
called Pontifical Angels. Pontifex in Latin means a bridge-
maker, and they do indeed make as it were a bridge between
heaven and earth, for they make it possible for the divine bless-
ing to be stored and distributed. One of them-the Angel of
the first or Ruling Ray-is termed the Directing Angel. It
is he who, on his arrival, takes charge ofthe proceedings. He
builds the Temple, if not already there, and supplements if
necessary the efforts ofthe celebrant to build around the wafer
and the wine tubes ofsubtle matter through which the line of
communication from our Lord may be inserted. Moreover
they work at far higher levels than we can, and they all join
heartily in the adoration of the Sanctus and in the two hymns
which follow it, thereby greatly enlarging and enriching the
Temple.
But we have been anticipating. When the priest has in-
voked the Angel of the Mass, after the Asperges, he turns to
the people and says," Brethren, let us now lay the foundation
ofour Temple." These words indicate exactly what is about
to be done ; for as we say or sing the beaµtiful canticle
beginning "Christ is our foundation," we unconsciously
throw off from our own higher vehicles emotional matter
which the Angel uses to build the floor of the Temple. That
floor is ofchess-board pattern and the squares (really the tops
of cubes, for the floor is solid) are of blue and crimson, the
colours respectively of devotion and love.
The floor, like the Temple to be raised over it, extends
Eastwards behind the altar as far as it does Westwards along
the church, for the· Angel makes the centre line through the ·
altar. The Lady-chapel, built out in some cathedrals behind
the chancel, serves the practical purpose of guarding against
the risk of unsuitable buildings, such, for instance, as a
ASPERGES TO ABSOLUTION 9
~utcher's shop or public-house, being reared to the Eastwards,
outside the physical building but inside the Temple. It is
worth noting that, when worshippers are few and the
material for the Temple consequently limited in amount, the
Angel may have to make the West end of the Temple imme-
diately behi'nd the last row of people, leaving some scattered
individuals outside it ; and it is therefore well not to sit
farther back than is necessary when few are present.
The canticle which follows the Asperges is throughout a
joyous and encouraging reminder of our own divine nature
and destiny-that we are already " of the household of God "
and are to be " builded together for an habitation of God
through th~ Spirit." As we utter it we provide material for
the Temple, and its concluding reminder that we must
" depart from iniquity " is a preparation for the Confiteor
(Latin for " I confess ") which follows. That, in its turn,
prepares us to receive with reverence and gratitude our Lord's
blessing, given through His ordained priest and known as the
Absolution.
The purpose of that blessing is to absolve or loosen (in
Latin absolvere) from sin, in other words, to straighten out
the channd of communication between the higher and lower
self, thus renewing the flow of divine grace within us-
always more or less impeded by any breach of the perfect law
of love.
At our present stage of spiritual evolution it is hardly pos-
sible for us to be always self-recollected. We not infre-
quently "forget the glory of our heritage and wander from
the path which leads to righteousness." Every such wander-
ing results in a sense of pain or discomfort, though we may
not always recognis~ the cause, and a sense ofdiscouragement,
a feeling that it is useless to go on trying, which feeling is a
· real obstacle to spiritual progress. We could in time get rid
of that feeling by our own efforts, though in some cases it
JJ.w, II
IO A HELP TO WORSHIP
might take weeks, months or even years to do so ; but the
obstacle can be and is swept away for us in a moment by the
grace of Absolution.
But Absolution, while clearing away obstructions on the
spiritual path, is not forgiveness of sins in the sense usually
attached to those words ; it does not relieve us from the
suffering which inevitably follows breaches of the law oflove,
as the cart-wheel follows the ox that draws the cart. There
has been a good deal of misunderstanding on this point, a mis-
understanding which unfortunately weakens the sense of
responsibility that can alone save us from suffering. It has
even been taught that a " turning to Jesus," as it is sometimes
called, or a trust in His merits, will relieve us of all conse-
quences and place us absolutely in the same position as if we
had not sinned. That, ofcourse, is impossible. St. Paul's say-
ing is true, " Be not deceived, God is not mocked, for what-
soever a man soweth that shall he also reap" (Gal. vi. 7). Or
as St. Francis ofAssisi expressed it," Whatsoever a man doeth
upon this earth, he doeth it unto himself, whether it be good
or whether it be evil." That is a simple statement of what
the student calls the law of karma (a Sanskrit word meaning
action or doing). Under the Good Law, whatever good or
evil we do to other lives-human or sub-human, our younger
brethren the animals-comes back without fail, sooner or
later, upon the doer. Thus the good and evil which come
more or less to everyone are strictly his own doing-bis karma.
That is not by any means a doctrine of predestination ; it is,
in fact, the very opposite ofsuch a teaching, for it means that
the good or evil results from the exercise ofour own free will.
It rests with ourselves to decide what kind ofseed we will sow,
but, once having sown, we can by no means escape the karmic
consequences. Thus the only way to avoid suffering is to
abstain from that which causes it-unloving thought, word
or deed.
ASPERGES TO ABSOLUTION 11
Every pain inflicted in the world is just as regards the
victim, otherwise it could not happen, but sin on the part of
the doer. The latter, in making himself the instrument for
working out another's karma, simply transfers the debt to his
own head, and will have to pay it sooner or later himself.
But though all suffering is karmic, we must not make that
an excuse for failing to help when we can. If we can save
another from suffering, that shows that the particular pain
was not in his karma. " Inaction in a deed ofmercy is action
in a deadly sin." We need not be afraid of interfering with
the law of karma, which is well able to take care of itself.
We do not know what is another's karma and what is not ;
our duty is unmistakable-to cease to do evil and learn to do
good.
The Good Law was known to the Greeks under the
appropriate name ofananke or necessity, which well expresses
the inevitability of what it brings us. Its workings furnished
lEschylus, Sophocles and Euripides with themes for their
·great tragedies. Its existence is not for one moment to be
regretted, for under it "nothing that is really terrible could
ever by any possibility happen, nor anything that is, except
relatively, even sorrowful." Sir Edwin Arnold says of this
Law in " The Light of Asia " :
"The heart of it is love; the end of it
Is peace and consummation sweet. Obey."
And again:
"Its threads are love and life ; and death and pain
The shuttles ofits loom" (which bring the love and life).
" If he who liveth, learning whence woe springs,
Endureth patiently, striving to pay
His utmost debt for ancient evils done,
In love and truth alway :
B2
12 ' A HELP TO WORSHIP
If, making none to lack, he throu.ghly purge
The lie and lust of self forth from his blood,
Suffering all meekly, rendering for offence
Nothing but grace and good;
If he shall day by day dwell merciful,
Holy and just and kind and true, and rend
Desire from where it clings with bleeding roots
Till love of life have end ;
Never shall yearnings toFture him, nor sins
Stain him, nor ache of earthly joys and woes
Invade his safe eternal peace, nor deaths
And lives recur, He goes
Unto Nirvana."
(a state of supreme peace, holiness and activity, in the service
ofall that lives.)
The meaning and purpose of Absolution have been con-
sidered first, because of the unfortunate obscurity in which
they have -been shrouded ; but before leaving the subject we
may consider the opening words, "Go-
d the Father, God the
Son, God the Holy Ghost, bless, preserve and sanctify you."
Here the words " bless, preserve and sanctify " are co-related
to the Three Persons of the Trinity. The First Person uses
His mighty power to bles? ; the Second Person makes it, as
it were, His especial business to give us the Light which pre-
serves us (if we will let it) from suffering. He also preserves
us in the sense of sustaining our existence ; it is His life
which keeps all our vehicles in existence from instant to
instant. The Third Person, through His servants the blessed
Masters who are united with Him, brings us in the end to
holiness, or sanctifies ·us. The remainder of the Absolution
is given in the name of our Lord the World-Teacher, who
looks down upon .us and is gracious unto us, absolving us,
through His ordained minister, from our sins, and thus giving
us the grace and comfort of the Holy Spirit,
CHAPTER III
THE FIRST CENSING
THE Absolution is not only a help in our daily life, making
it easier tq eschew evil and to do good, but it prepares us to
utter worthily and reverently the three noble hymns of praise
and prayer that follow, namely, the Introit, the Kyrie, and
the Gloria. As we recite thes.e with the celebrant, and join
mentally in the collects which follow, we throw off from our
emotional and mental bodies matter with which the Angel of
the Mass builds the walls and roof of our Temple, as he has
already built the floor during the Canticle. This fact is
expressed in the celebrant's words, uttered immediately after
the Absolution, "With praise and with prayer shall our
Temple be built."
A quotation from the Bi~hop's vivid description of the
building of the Temple may help the reader to realise the
Angel's presence and work. " Each phrase of the Introit
sends out a fresh wave, and the rising material soon bends over
again into a roof, so that the edifice at this stage looks like an
enormous cylindrical bag, all its corners and edges being
rounded. The Angel, superbly capable, stands in the middle
by the altar, deftly spraying out force in all directions with
wondrotts ease and accuracy, thereby quickly pressing out the
curves into corners, unti-l we have an oblong building. The
colours are still chiefly crimson and blue ... the upper
part, being lighter and thinner, shows lovely delicate shades
ofrose and azure ofindescribable luminosity, but as the uprush
continues the whole erection becomes firmer andlesstenuous."
13
If A HELP TO WORSHIP
But we are anticipating. The first thing to be done after
the Absolution is to cense the altar.
The priest blesses incense, while it is in the most receptive
condition, melting upon hot charcoal in the censer, and pro-
ceeds to cense the altar which is to bear the consecrated ele-
ments. This censing makes it a kind of holy of holies in the
midst of the Temple, almost as if it were an extension of the
paten and chalice.
To appreciate the value of holy water, of incense, and of
the precious stones or jewels which are also used in our ser-
vices, we must remember that there is really no such thing as
"dead matter," however dead it may appear to our blind
eyes. Recent scientific investigation has shown, by means of
ultra-delicate apparatus, that even metals respond to stimulus
ofcertain kinds much as do our own bodies, and can be either
stimulated, poisoned or killed. This is not surprising when
we reflect that for the open eye of the seer every particle of
physical matter is in swift and ceaseless motion.
"Sans Dieu rien" (without God nothing). The life of
the Supreme is immanent in each one of the countless lives on
this earth, and on every other globe of His system. The pur-
pose of evolution is that every one of these lives, in whatever
kingdom it may now be, should gradually become aware of
its own inherent divinity, and show forth in ever-increasing
degree the Will, the Wisdom, and the Activity of Him from
Whom it came, in Whom it lives and moves and has its being,
and to Whom it must ultimately return. More and more
choice and initiative become possible for it as evolution pro- .
ceeds ; but at every stage and in whatever kingdom the life
thrills eagerly in response to vibrations higher than its own .
and intensifies -them. As the old Egyptians would have said,
Osiris within calls to Osiris without ; and advantage is taken
of that fact in religious and other ceremonial to obtain the
help of life in the mineral kingdom by the use of precious
THE FIRST CENSING 15
stones, and of that in the vegetable kingdom by means of
incense. All evolution from lowest to highest proceeds along
seven parallel lines, known to the student as " Rays " ; and
at the head of each Ray in the superhuman kingdom stands
one of those exalted Beings, second only in exaltation to the
Blessed Three, Who are styled in Revelation " the seven
spirits before the throne."
At the head of each Ray in the mineral kingdom there
stands a precious stone, and in the Liberal Catholic Church
considerable use is made of these seven jewels. A small frag-
ment of each suffices for the purpose, and it is blessed before-
hand by a Bishop to intensify its natural relation with the head
of its Ray.
Small pieces pf the seven jewels are affixed to the altar-
cross and to the six candlesticks which stand three on either
side of the cross. Another set of seven is inserted in a slab of
white marble, known as an altar-stone, which is let into the
top of the altar so as to be level with the surface. On this
stands the chalice at Mass. Another set is affixed to seven
small metal crosses which are distributed in suitable position
about the church, and are called Ray-crosses. A set is also
inserted in the crook of a Bishop's crozier. It is to obtain
the co-operation of this that he assumes his mitre and crozier
several times in the course of the Mass-when saying the
Invocation at the beginning, and when blessing the people or
the incense, and giving the Absolution. He also wears his
mitre to preach, the crozier being held beside him by priest
or server.
As regards incense, our Presiding Bishop writes that it
"tends to purify that part of man's nature which is some-
times called the astral body, as it is made of gums which give
off an intensely cleansing vibration. In this respect its effect
is analogous to the sprinkling of a disinfectant, which will
spread about in the air and destroy undesirable germs, though
16 A HELP TO WORSHIP
in this case the operatiop is on higher levels and in finer
matter. It has also the effect of attracting denizens of the
inner worlds whose presence is helpful to our working, and
of driving away those which are unsuitable. Two of the
most important constituents of such incense as is useful for
our work are benzoin and olibanum. Benzoin is a vigorous
purifier, and tends to drive away all coarse or sensuous feel-
ings and thoughts. Olibanum has nothing to do with that,
but it creates a devotional and restful atmosphere, and tends
to stimulate those vibrations in the astral body which make
people responsive to higher things. Attar of roses is also
useful, and adds greatly to the effect produced.
" If the incense is intelligently magnetised its strength is
increased enormously ; for example, by putting into olibanum
the definite force of the will in the direction of calmness and
devotion, its infl.uence may be increased a hundredfold. That
is why the incense in church is always taken up to the cele-
brant to be blessed. The sprinkling ofholy water in a church
is another way of producing a similar effect, but incense has
the advantage that it rises into the air, and wherever a single
_
particle goes the purification and blessing is borne with it."
Now to consider the censing of the altar. If the Mass is
sung, the altar is censed during the singing of the Introit, on
which latter the people's attention is concentrated. But
when Mass is said, the censing is done first, before the Introit,
and the people are free to take part mentally in the censing,
and should do so.
The paten and chalice stand on the middle line of the altar,
with the altar-cross behind them. It is along that line that
the force will chiefl.y fl.ow, and that line therefore receives
special attention. Nine swings of the censer (three sets of
three each) are directed towards the altar-cross. For the
first three the thought should be " I offer to the First Person
self, soul and bodies ; anc;I similarly for the second and third
THE FIRST CENSING
sets of three, substituting the Second and Third Persons for
the First Person.
The words "self, soul, bodies," are here used for different
parts of man's nature. The " self" is the highest, and in a
sense, deepest, part of our nature on Nirvanic levels-what
the student calls the monad. This is sometimes called " the
eternal." The Holy Ones live consciously in it, as we do
unconsciously. In the second blessing at the end of the Mass,
the Holy Ones are described as " those who live in the
eternal."
The " soul " is the higher self, intermediate between monad
and personality, and known to the:student as atma-buddhi-
manas ; and the" bodies" are not merely our physical bodies
but all three vehicles of the personality, namely, the lower or
concrete mind, the emotional body and the physical.
This subject of man's higher bodies, in worlds to us in-
visible, may appear intricate to those who ap.proach it for the
first time ; but it is simple enough if we study a diagram,
remembering that the planes of matter are not really like
shelves (though they are represented by parallel lines), for
they interpenetrate one another and actually occupy the same
space, somewhat as do sponge and water in a wet sponge.
The vehicle or body of each plane or part of a plane (for
some planes may be thought of for our purpose as divided in
two, a higher and lower) is built, as it were, round an atom of
the plane, or (if the vehicle belongs to the lower half of a
plane) round a particle which plays the part of an atom and
may be called a" unit." These atoms or" units" are called
" permanent atoms " because they accompany the individual
life through innumerable births in the successive kingdoms,
and no matter how often the body is dissolved and renewed,
the same particular atom remains during the vast period spent
in passing through all the kingdoms-elemental, mineral,
vegetable, animal, human and superhuman.
18 A HELP TO WORSHIP
In the accompanying diagram the dots stand for the per-
manent atoms on the various planes, and the brackets show
how the atoms are linked together in sets of three. It will be
seen that not only is man a trinity, like his Maker, having
self, soul and body (monad, ego and personality), but each of
these is itselfa trinity. The second dots on the Nirvanic and
mental planes stand for "permanent units "-particles be-
longing to the fourth of the seven subdivisions or subplanes
which together make up a plane.
After the altar-cross the six candlesticks are censed, each
with a single swing, and there should be a twofold thought at
each swing, " I offer to God whatever I may possess of the
particular quality for which the candlestick stands, and I will
try to increase it." There is not much time for thinking, but
thought is swift. One can say mentally at the beginning " I
offer to God," and then name for each candlestick the quality
of its Ray. The qualities for the candlesticks on the right
(counting from the cross outwards) are power, beauty, and
exact or detailed knowledge. The last-named includes, of
course, ordinary science, though that applies only to the
physical, the existence of higher planes being at present un-
recognised. On the left-hand side the qualities are (counting
again from cross outwards) order, tact and adaptability, love
and devotion.
The jewels are in the very midst of our Temple and in
close proximity to paten and chalice, so that every service
tends to increase the effect of the original blessing by a
Bishop. The oft-repeated thought of celebrant and people
also adds to the effect, as do the candle flames. On the utility
of candles our Presiding Bishop writes : " The use of fire in
ecclesiastical or Masonic ceremonies is little understood. The
lighting of a candle with religious intention is analogous to a
prayer, and always invokes a downpouring of force from on
high. . . . The electric lights which are used instead of
THE FIRST CENSING
candles in some Lodges do not produce the same effect ;
they give light but not fire, and therefore fail of their full
result." *
Diagram showing the levels or planes of the various
vehicles of consciousness-developed and at present un-
developed.
It is not practicable to show the vehicles themselves, but
the level or plane of each is indicated by a dot. These dots
stand for the " permanent atoms " round one of which each
vehicle is, in a sense, built.
The last column shows how the nine vehicles are grouped,
or work together, in " trinities " or sets of three.
Planes.
Root or Adhi
Paranirvanic or Monadic
Nirvanic or Spiritual
Buddhic or Intuitional
Mental
1
Emotional or Astral
Physical
Atoms.
J
:}
:}
"Trinities" or Sets of Three.
I
SELF or MoNAD.
SouL or HIGHER SELF.
BooY or LowER SELF or
PERSONALITY.
The accompanying statement shows in tabular form for
each candlestick the number of the Ray, the jewel, and the
qualities of the Ray.
Three candle-sticks. CI'Ol<I. Three candle-sticks.
6th
Ruby.
Loveaad
Devotion
or love to
superiors.
Number of Ray.
3rd 7th 2nd xst 4th
Jewel.
Emerald. Amethyst. Sapphire. Diamond. Jasper.
Quality of Ray.
5th
Topaz.
Tact and
Adapta-
bility.
Ceremonial Teaching or Ruling or Beauty and Precise or
or Order. Wisdom. Power. Harmony. Detailed
Knowledge.
* "The H idden L ife in Freemasonry," p. I 33.
CHAPTER IV
\
INTROIT, KYRIE AND GLORIA
THESE are addressed tp the Supreme Being of our solar
system, Whom we call God, and to the most holy and
blessed Three who are nearest to Himself, His glorious Assis-
tants in the work of creating, preserving and ultimately dis-
solving a system qf worlds.
We have to some extent lost the idea of the One, Whose
life is in each of the Three in inconceivable degree, as it
is also (in endlessly varying degrees of manifestation) in every
individual life, including ourselves, in all the kingdoms of
Nature. We are all pans of that mighty life.
Know this, 0 man, sole root of sin in thee
Is not to know thine own divinity.*
Christians in general seem to look on the Unity as nothing
more than a mysterious combination or collective expression,
almost, if one may say it without irreverence, a sort of com-
posite photograpfi of the Trinity. This may be seen from
the custom of bowing the head at the name of the Trinity
but not at the name of God. The One God Who is the
Father of all (even of the ~lessed Three) seems to be con-
fused with the First Person-God the Father. For this con-
fusion the names we use for those mighty Beings may be
partly responsible. We rightly call God our Father and
Almighty, while we 'call the First Person ~· God the Father
Almighty." That, too, is correct in a sense, as the First
* From" 0 Soul of Mine," by J as. Rhoades (John Lane, the Bodley Head).
20
INTROIT, KYRIE AND GLORIA 21
Person is the special Channel for the Power of the Supreme,
and superintends the administration of that Power through-
out the system, even as the Second and Third Persons transmit
and administer His Wisdom and His Loving Activity. But
the First Person is not identical with the Supreme, from
Whom even His Power is derived. The distinction would
be clearer if we had more distinctive names for the One and
the Three-the Holy Four as the old Greek sage Pythagoras
called Them.
The followers of the Hindu religion do not experience this
difficulty, as they call the Three Shiva, Vishnu and Brahma,
reserving the title of Ruler (in Sanskrit, Ishvara) for the
Supreme, the One. Similarly with the ;mcient Egyptians
there was no confusion. The One Was Amen Ra, and the
Three were Osiris, Isis and Horus. The confusion in the
Christian nomenclature unfortunately masks the all-impor-
tant fact that there is in reality but One Life in the solar
system ; " One without<\ second,'' say the Hindu scriptures.
" There is one God ; and there is none other but He,'' say
the Christian scriptures (Mark xii. 32).
This great truth, when we apprehend it with all its conse-
quences, will indeed set us free from that sense of separate-
ness which is the root of all selfishness, and has been called
"the great heresy." This truth is the logical justification of
the teaching of Harmlessness (or in Sanskrit, Ahimrsa) which
has never been lost in the East and includes not only the
negative duty of abstaining from injuring any living creature
but also the positive duty of love and protection, not for man
alone, but also for 011r younger brethren in evolution, the
animals, who have, like ourselves, "been called into life with
a capacity for enjoyment and suffering," and are with us" on
the one road of ascent to that which is higher." *
* From the "Introduction to the Gospel of the Holy Twelve,'' published
by Edson (Printers) Ltd., Springdale Road, London, N. 16.
22 A HELP TO WORSHIP
Had this truth been known and taught, we co~ld never
have fallen into the habit, well-nigh universal in Christen-
dom, of killing and eating the younger brethren who were
given into our hands to love and protect. The duty of
abstinence from flesh-eating was an essential part of our
Lord's original teaching, as given in The Gospel of the Holy
Twelve-an original and complete Gospel (see the author's
book, "The Original Christianity").
And yet the existence of the Unity, and the duty of wor-
shipping Him, is plainly proclaimed in the Athanasian Creed,
fullest and stateliest of the three, in spite of a few words at
the beginning and end which could easily be left out, but for
which some unwisely reject it in toto. That Creed says,
"the Catholic Faith is this ; that we worship one God in
Trinity, and Trinity in Unity ... so that in all things, as
is aforesaid, the Unity in Trinity, and the Trinity in Unity
is to be worshipped."
The few words on account of which the Athanasian Creed
has fallen somewhat into disuse include a reference to " ever•
lasting fire," and say that "except a man believe faithfully"
this statement of belief, which is " the Catholic Faith," "he
cannot be saved." Even these words, though quite untrue as
commonly understood, are only a distortion (absent probably
from the original Creed) of an important truth. There is of
course nothing to be saved from except sin and ignorance,
with the suffering, strictly temporary and remedial, to which
they lead ; but it is quite true that the only way to be saved
from these, completely and for ever, is to enter in at the strait
gate and to. tread in a few lives the narrow ancient Way of
Initiation. It is further true that, to pass the strait gate, we
must have, among other things, at least a rudimentary con-
ception of the divine plan of evolution, and the existence and
work of the Unity in Trinity and the Trinity in Unity.
The Unitarians are surely just as right in insisting on the
INTROIT, KYRIE AND GLORIA 23
Unity as the Christians in worshipping the Trinity. As often
happens in controversy, both sides are right, and the truth is
greater than either is aware, and includes the views of both.
It may help us to remember the Unity if in naming the
Trinity we mentally supply the small word "in," thinking
of Them as " God in the Father, God in the Son and God
in the Holy Ghost."
For the Introit and Gloria, which are hymns of praise, we
stand, but the solemn prayer of the Kyrie is said or sung
kneeling. "Introit" is a Latin word meaning" he goes in,"
and should be pronounced as if written with a hyphen,
" Intro-it," not as if the letters 0 and i formed a single sound
as in " boil."
The Introit refers expressly both to the One and the
Three, for it begins, "Blessed be the Holy Trinity," while
in the middle we say, "0 Lord our God" (meaning evi-
dently the One), "how excellent is Thy name in all the
world."
The Gloria does not distinguish so clearly between the
One and the Three. It begins "Glory to God in the
highest," which may certainly be taken as applying to the
One, but the next sentence begins, "We praise Thee," as if
still referring to the One, while it ends with words strictly
applicable to the First Person-" 0 Lord God, Heavenly
King, God the Father Almighty." The First Person may
certainly be thus addressed ; but those who identify (as many
do) the First Person with God will look on both sentences as
referring to Him. The meaning would be clearer if the
second sentence were made a separate paragraph, beginning
with a new line ; and perhaps in a later edition this slight
change may be made.
The words " Kyrie eleison " are Greek, and are common!y
translated "Lord, have mercy," whereas they really mean
" Lord, pour forth Thy love." " Eleison " is akin to our
A HELP TO WORSHIP
word " eleemosynary," and implies giving, not having mercy
or forgiving.
The first three ofthe nine Kyries are addressed to the First
Person ; the second and thi'rd to the Second and Third Per-
sons. The thought should be, for the first K yrie of each
three," Lord, I am a spark ofThee, the living flame ; pour
Thyselfinto and through Thy spark." For the second Kyrie
we should think" Lord, flood Thou my soul, that through it
others may be helped " ; and for the third " Lord, my bodies
are Thine; use Thou them to Thy service." By the spark
is meant the very self of man, called by students the monad.
The soul..:_see diagram in last chapter-is the higher self ;
and the bodies are the three vehicles of the lower self or
personality, namely, the mental, emotional or astral, and
physical.
When the Kyrie is sung there is more time for thought ;
but even when it is said we can mentally offer to each Person
in turn "self, soul, bodies," and such offering is effec-
tual.
In respect to the Gloria, it is interesting to note that the
second paragraph mentions three qualities-strength, wisdom
and beauty-which belong in inconceivable splendour to each
of the Three Persons, and places first the quality of wisdom
which the Second Person specially transmits and administers.
The cross printed at the .beginning and end of this wonder-
ful trio of hymns is a suggestion to us to cross ourselves at
those points, that we may draw into ourselves to the utmost
the wonderful down-pouring of force which is the immediate
result of our aspiration. This symbol appears repeatedly in
our liturgy, sometimes as a plain equal-armed cross, and
sometimes, as here, in the Maltese form, with arms thickened
towards the ends. Where the simpler form is used the sign
is made only by the celebrant, generally when he is throwing
out the force for which he is a channel, The thicker form
INTROIT, KYRIE AND GLORIA 25
is an invitation to the people to cross themselves, that they
may draw into themselves force which has been generated.
The sign is made by touching successively with the finger-
tips forehead, breast and shoulders (the left shoulder before
the right). " It is a kind of miniature creed expressed in
action instead of in words, for as we touch first the forehead
and then the heart it reminds us how ' for us men and for our
salvation ' Christ came down from the Father, Who is Head
over all, to this earth, to the physical plane, the lower part of
His creation ; while as we touch first the left shoulder and
then the right we remember that He passed from earth into
the lower astral world, called hell and typified as the left hand
of God (though even so it is higher than the earth), and pro-
ceeded thence to sit in glory for ever on the right hand of
the Father."
Or we may take another line of thought and make the sign
a dedication, which, with practice, becomes instantaneous, of
our thoughts, emotions and p.cts, as we point successively to
brain, heart and shoulders-the organs of action from which
spring arms and hands.
The holy sign has a further value, for it attracts invisible
beings, a class of Nature-spirits who delight in the vibrations
produced by good thoughts and emotions, and their presence
is distinctly helpful. They get their evolution by bathing in
such vibrations wherever they can find them, and they thrill
eagerly in response to them, thus adding to their intensity and
tending to prolong the uplifting emotion of the one who
makes the sign. There are always numbers of such creatures
about, and any that are in the neighbourhood when we sign
ourselves are quick to notice it, having discovered by experi-
ence that it is usually an indication of the vibrations they
love.
H.W. c
CHAPTER V
FROM COLLECTS TO CREED
AFTER the Gloria come the Collects, preceded by the
words, "Let us pray "-a suggestion to us to kneel. First
the Collect or Collects for the day and then one for peace.
The Collect for Peace is especially needed at the present
crisis in the world's history. A new age, a new race and a
new civilisation are, as it were, in their birth-throes, and the
Wodd-Teacher Himself (Who is the real Officiant in all the
Sacraments) is coming again among us in bodily form to renew
certain teachings for lack of which the Christian religion has
been and is sadly impoverished. He is coming to draw the
kingdoms of Nature nearer together-men to Angels and
men to animals ; but if man puts up one hand to the Angels
for help, he must put down the other to help the animals, for
it is a law of Nature that help can be given only to those who
will use it to help others. In things spiritual, as in things
temporal, if a man will not work neither shall he eat ; and
to help animals is to love and protect them, not to kill and eat
them as for the most part we do now.
Only the Great One can hope to gain a wide hearing for
the unpalatable truth that it is our bounden duty to give up
the habit of killing for food, a habit which is really next door
to cannibalism, though custom has blunted our perception
and bred in us a strange taste for what is really corpse-food.
In spite of that we should certainly shrink from the practice
if we had to kill the animals ourselves, or even to witness the
26
COLLECTS TO CREED 27
killing. We are careful to put the houses where it is done
for us-the slaughter-houses-out of sight, and to forget
their existence as far as possible ; but if we with our cold
hearts cannot endure the sight, or even the thought of it, how
must it appear to the Lord of Love !
For His difficult work peace is essential. How could men
listen to Him if engaged in slaying and being slain ? And it
is not unrea.sonable to hope that our constant pr<i-yer (for the
Collect for Peace is recited at all our services) may strengthen
the many forces which are working against war. Great is
the power of thought on that plane of the higher mind on
which prayer operates.
Men think to find support for Resh-eating in their scrip-
tures, and perhaps they do, for scriptures have often been
corrupted on this very point, and there is reason to think that
our own, too, have suffered in this way. The Resh-pots of
Egypt are dear to unregenerate man ; but it has been well
said that those who partake of unclean food cannot enter into
the Master's presence, nor can those who are cruel taste of
the Eternal Peace.
Men are but the animals of yesterday, however long ago
that yesterday may have been, and the animals will be the
men of to-morrow, however distant that morrow. The duty
oflove and protection for animals has been long and strangely
overlooked.
Scriptures may be corrupted, but there is within each one
of us a witness that cannot be corrupted. That witness may
be, and often is, unheeded and silenced, but it is always open
to us to listen to the " still small voice " ; and if we do that,
instead of appealing to scriptures-however true and beau-
tiful in other respects those scriptures may be-we shall in-
fallibly learn the old and simple truth that we should do
unto others as we would they should do unto us. Then shall
we cease to shelter ourselves behind any artificial distinction
C2
A HELP TO WORSHIP
between men and animals, for we shall know that there is but
one life in all alike, and that God's life.
The Wodd-Teacher is, of course, perfectly aware when
scriptures are being corrupted, but He does not interfere any
more tl1an M9ses did with the putting away of wives without
a cause-which he suffered for the hardness of men's hearts.
The very fact of people's wishing to corrupt a scripture is
proofthat the teaching is too high for them. A teaching must
be adapted to those who are to follow it. If too high it is
simply disregarded, as happened with the teaching against
flesh-eating, until it was removed from our Gospels in the
fourth century (see the author's book," The Original Chris-
tianity").
After the Collects comes the Epistle for the day, and then
the Gradual with its reminder that wisdom (a combination of
knowledge wjth love) leads to "life "-the true life of the
spirit, which sees the One Self everywhere abiding and in all.
After that the Gospeller prays for purity "worthily to pro-
claim Thy Gospel," and receives at the hand of the cele-
brant our Lord's blessing (which ordination enables him to
give). He immediately turns and hands it on to the people
with the words "The Lord be with you." They answer
"And with Thy spirit," meaning that in the spirit (the
monad as the student calls it) we are all one.
When the Gospel has been announced we all sing (or say),
"Glory be to Thee, 0 Lord," and as we do so we make the
sign of the cross with the right thumb on forehead, lips and
breast. This is the only occasion on which the sign is made
in that way. The thumb is a good outlet for force through
the hand, and this action affects certain occult centres (in
Sanskrit, chakrams) in the etheric body which are specially
connected with thought, speech and emotions. Then the
book is censed and, ifservers are available, lights are held and
incense burned before it during the reading, in order to make
COLLECTS TO CREED
a good centre for the distribution of force. After the Gospel
the reader censes the celebrant, thus returning to him some
of the force which he received at the previous blessing.
Then the sermon, if any. Before beginning what he has
to say the preacher turns to the altar and says, crossing him-
self, " In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the
Holy Ghost." Here, as elsewhere in our services, " name "
means "strength," and this invocation is followed by a Row
of force which is of material assistance to the preacher. The
people can give him further help by joining mentally in the
thought thus expressed, and uttering heartily the Amen with
which it concludes. 1
After the sermon the short but beautiful Creed, with its
reminder of our divine origin as sons of the Supreme, and its
assurance that perfect justice rules the world (a statement of
what the student calls the law of karma) and that all His sons
shall one day reach His feet. The Nicene Creed, which
occurs only in the Longer Eucharistic Form, will be con-
sidered in the last chapter.
CHAPTER VI
FROM THE OFFERING OF THE ELEMENTS TO THE SANCTUS
THE Creed ended, the celebrant removes the veil which
has hitherto covered chalice, paten and wafer, and offers the
last-named in the words, " We adore Thee," etc. He then
pours wine into the chalice, adding a little water, and saying,
" According to immemorial custom," etc. The water is
added to provide a vehicle for our Lord's blessing even on the
physical level, as do the wafer and wine on the mental and
emotional levels respectively.
There is a kind of matter subtler than that revealed by our
present senses, and yet strictly physical, to which we give the
name ofetheric. At our present stage of evolution we know
only the three lower subdivisions of the physical plane-the
solid, liquid and gaseous-but above, or rather within and
interpenetrating, these are four ethers, making with them
the seven subdivisions or subplanes, which together make
up the whole plane.
This etheric, or higher physical, matter plays an im-
portant part in nature. Ofit, for instance, are composed the
bodies of the hosts of fairies or nature-spirits ; and we our-
selves have an etheric body-intermediate in density between
the emotional and the gross physical-which never leaves the
latter during life, but which is withd1awn for us at last by the
Angel of Death. It is in what happens to the etheric that
lies the difference between sleep and death. When once
this has left the physical, we cannot return, and all possibility
of sensation through the physical is at an end. Happily for
30
OFFERING ELEMENTS TO THE SANCTUS 31
us, when once the Angel of Death has withdrawn the
etheric from the physical body, there is no fear of our being
affected in any way by burial or cremation. The etheric is
built first in the womb before birth, and then the physical is
built into it, particle by particle, by nature-spirits. To
restore it to its original relation with the latter, when once
withdrawn, is practically impossible ; but when the emo-
tional leaves the physical at night in sleep, the etheric is left
behind, and there is no difficulty in returning at will.
As the etheric is withdrawn at death from the feet
upwards, the limbs grow cold, and it has been seen by
clairvoyants to issue from the head. Being technically
physical, it can be photographed, as can the "dead" (who
have only the emotional body) when they draw etheric
matter round them from the body of a living medium. A
French doctor and scientist, now deceased, did photograph a
dying man, and the author has seen a lantern-slide, prepared
by him, in which the etheric could be clearly seen issuing
from the head.
Through the etheric body, the blessing received at
Communion stirs and quickens even the physical senses of
sight, hearing, touch, taste and smell, as some have observed.
Another explanation may here be given. In our material
age people generally look upon thought as an activity only of
the brain, but that is not really the primary instrument of
thought-only the instrument for its expression on the
physical plane, necessary so long as our attention is centred
th€re during life. Thought originates in the mental body,
composed of matter of the mental plane, which is two planes
above or within the physical, the emotional being inter-
mediate. Were there no thought in the mental body, there
would be none in the brain. Although we do not become
aware of changes in our own mental body till they have
affected the brain, the 1
changes are perfectly visible to the
A HELP TO WORSHIP
open eye of the seer. We sometimes say that we know a
thing though we cannot tell it, which only means that we
have the knowledge in a higher vehicle (perhaps the emo-
tional), but cannot bring it through into the brain.
Our minds contain matter both of the higher and lower
mental levels-the three higher and the four lower. The
higher mind is called for brevity the "causal," because it is
in a sense the cause of our repeated incarnations. It may be
likened to a string upon which a new set of lower vehicles-
mental, emotional and physical-is strung like beads during
each incarnation. The causal body itself goes on growing
from life to life in size, definiteness of outline, and brilliancy
of colouring.
When wafer and wine have been offered, they, with the
altar on which they stand, are censed, and then the priest
holds up the censer before the middle of the altar saying,
" As this incense rises before Thee, 0 Lord . . . let Thy
holy Angels encompass Thy people and breathe forth upon
them the spirit of Thy blessing." And that is what is done,
for there are always Angels hovering near the reserved Host
in the tabernacle, and at these words they sweep dqwn the
church throwing out in great puffs, as it were, the very
essence of the force contained in the incense.
Then: the priests, choir and people are censed. The
censing is a mark of respect, and also gives force to the
recipient. The number of swings of the censer indicates
the rank in ordination-three triple swings for a Bishop,
three double swings for a priest and three single swings for
all below that rank.
The spiritual Temple is now as complete as we can make
it without the help of the Pontifical Angels whom we are
about to invoke, and within it the altar has been twice
censed, making it a sort of holy of holies, fit to bear the Host.
The next step is to offer ourselves, our souls and our bodies
OFFERING ELEMENTS TO THE SANCTUS 33
(monad, ego and personality, as the student calls them) to be
a holy and continual sacrifice, praying that our strength may
be spent in God's service (the service of all that lives, for His
life is in all) and our love poured forth upon His people. The
celebrant now turns to us and says," The Lord be with you"
-in the effort to which you have pledged yourselves-and
we respond in the familiar way.
Then come the versicles known as the " Sursum corda " :
P. Lift up your hearts.
C. We lift them up unto the Lord.
P. Let us give thanks unto the Lord.
C. It is meet and right so to do.
When these are sung, the ancient melody is used, and the
nine great Pontifical Angels all hear it and respond at once,
but if the versicles are said, the Directing Angel hears and
summons the rest. What happens is thus described in our
Presiding Bishop's book :-
'.'For these versicles and their responses there is a tradi-
tional melody, which has been used ever since the Church
was founded, and may well have been prescribed, either by
our Lord Himself at its foundation, or shortly after it by
some of those who understood the effect of sound upon the
inner world. . . . Certain central ideas of the ritual only
were given at the beginning, and round those unchanging
ideas celebrants grouped extempore prayers; but for those
definite points there were from the very first unvarying
formula::, the exact meaning of which is still preserved,
although they have been translated from one language to
another. . . . The Angel of the Eucharist seizes at the
same time the lovely music-form and the mental force put
forth by the celebrant" (in the first versicle) "and sends them
sweeping down the church with a splendid gesture ofsupreme
command ; and, as the response of the people comes swirling
34 A HELP TO WORSHIP
back like a great rush of living fire, he whirls it all upward
in a mighty soaring Bame, which fills the dome of the
Eucharistic edifice and streams upward through the lante~n
into space. The second versicle and its response send up a
second impulse of like nature, and the Boating rosy cross
gleams forth with blinding light for those whose eyes can see.
And through the channel thus made the celebrant sends
upward the words appointed from of old : ' It is very meet
and right and our bounden duty, etc.'"
The Preface to the Sanctus serves at once as a reminder of
our duty ever to give thanks to God, and as a summons to
invoke the presence of the great Pontifical Angels whose
co-operation in the Mass is essential. Representatives of
the nine orders of Angels immediately respond, and our seers
tell us that it is a glorious and solemn spectacle to watch them
Bashing into their places behind the altar, facing the people.
In their eyes is a majestic peace, and the manifold colour and
brilliance of their auras give an impression of radiant strength
and beauty. It is of these Beings that we say in the Sanctus
"Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord," and to
our greeting they respond with a smile which is really a
blessing. We immediately add " hosanna in the highest,"
and as our thought (or the mental matter which expresses it)
rises, it makes room for their blessing to Row in underneath.
Although we may not see the Angels, we should think of
them, trying to picture them to ourselves, and really greeting
them as we say the words. The titles used in the Preface
are the ancient Christian names for the nine orders. Of
those who come, seven are Representatives of the seven Rays
(or great lines of evolution) for our own chain of worlds, and
two are of that higher rank which moves freely about the
solar system as a whole, and perhaps over other systems too.
With the Pontifical nine come" the company of heaven"
(as we say in the Preface)-a number of lesser Angels who
OFFERING ELEMENTS TO THE SANCTUS 35
are eager to join in the work and will act as messengers, when
tile time comes, to carry force to the various individuals and
classes of people mentioned in the Prayer of Consecration.
One of the nine-the First Ray Angel-at once takes
charge of the proceedings. He usually carries a rod, the
symbol of his office, which varies in colour according to the
force which is being sent through it. The colour of the day
is generally predominant, but not invariably.
The Prayer of Consecration, which follows the Sanctus,
enumerates the various purposes to which a share of our
Lord's blessing is to be devoted. The Director "listens
carefully to the list of recipients recited by the celebrant, and,
as each is mentioned, he indicates, by pointing with his rod,
the Angel or group of Angels who are to attend to that
particular person or object."
The outeouring of force over the world begins after the
Commemoration of the Saints, when the priest breaks the
Host in half over the chalice, "praying that by this action,
ordained from of old, Thy strength, Thy peace and Thy
blessing, which Thou dost give us in this holy Sacrament,
may be spread abroad upon Thy world." Then the distri-
buting or " apostolic " Angels receive their allotted shares of
force, and " it is most interesting to see how each one comes
forward and glows more brightly when his charge is assigned
to him." -
" Human beings who have laid aside their physical bodies,
either in death or in sleep, and are working in the astral
world, are also occasionally employed by the Directing Angel
in this beneficent work of distribution ; but he can utilise
only those who have developed the special qualifications
required. A considerable number of ' dead ' Catholics,
especially among those who belong to religious orders, have
been found willing to submit themselves to the training
necessary to enable them to be useful in this respect ; and we
A HELP TO WORSHIP
hope that the number will increase as the science of the
Sacraments comes to be more widely understood by the
faithful." .
The Director also builds the spiritual Temple, if it is not
already there, and it never is in the Anglican service, as no
Angel of the Mass is invoked at the beginning ; nor is it in
the Roman Catholic service when the Asperges has been
omitted, as it often is.
The Angels join with us heartily in the Sanctus-that
most solemn act of worship-and in the two hymns which
follow the consecration-" Thee we adore,'' and "0 come,
all ye faithful "-thereby adding much material of higher
levels than we can supply, and enormously increasing the size
and beauty of our Temple. So much so that the original
becomes as it were a mere pediment to the vast superstructure
which shoots up to a great height, sometimes far beyond the
roof of the church. We can use our imaginations to try and
realise the majestic peace and power of the Angels, and so
may we come to feel something of their exalted vibrations as
they join with us in worship.
The opening words of the Sanctus-" Holy, holy, holy,
Lord God of Hosts "-may be taken as addressed to the
Supreme, the Logos or Solar Deity, or we can think of them
as addressed to the holy Four, the Three and the One-God
the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost, and the
One God (Lord of Hosts) Who is within and above even
Them, as He is in various degrees in every one of the Hosts,
the innumerable individual lives which are evolving in His
system.
"The Trisagion" (a Greek word meaning Thrice Holy),
"should be sung with the greatest possible solemnity and
reverence, the worshipper following the words carefully, and
trying to feel and mean them with every fibre of his being,
though at the same time maintaining the utmost calm and
OFFERING ELEMENTS TO THE SANCTUS 37
serenity. At the first recitation of the word ' Holy'
homage is offered to God the Father, and the second and
third are addressed to the Son and the Holy Spirit respectively.
Our people should bear this in mind and direct their thoughts
accordingly."
CHAPTER VII
THE CONSECRATION AND FOLLOWING HYMNS
THE Prayer of Consecration, which comes after the
Sanctus, begins by saying, " these our oblations have served
as tokens and channels of our love and devotion." We first
offered them as tokens of our gratitude to Him Who is " the
Giver of all," and then, in the prayer which followed, we
made them channels ofour love, by linking them" spiritually
with ourselves," praying Him to receive" through them" our
praise and thanksgiving, and offering ourselves to be a .holy
and continual sacrifice.
The Prayer of Consecration then proceeds to enumerate
various individuals and classes of people to whom we wish to
devote a share in the coming blessing. This expression of
our wish is really addressed to the Angels, by whom it will
be duly carried out.
Then at the words, "Wherefore, 0 holy Lord," we gain,
through the celebrant's link with our Lord, His attention to
what we are doing. The link with Him which the priest
received at ordination enables him to do this, as it enables
him also to gain the attention of the Angel of the Mass at the
beginning of the service, and that of the Pontifical Angels at
the Preface to the Sanctus.
It is only for a brief space that His attention is necessary,
namely, from this point to the prayer which follows the
Consecration and the two hymns. In that prayer we ask
that His holy Angel may bear our oblation of praise and
thanksgiving to His altar on high, and at those words the
38
THE CONSECRATION AND HYMNS 39
Angel of the Presence does in fact depart, with a beautiful
smile at the mention of Himself, and the need for our Lord's
attention ceases.
That attention, though of short duration, must be needed
in many places at once, and fairly continuously throughout
the twenty-four hours, as Mass may be said at any time from
midnight to midday, and it is always forenoon for half the
world, as it turns on its axis from West to East. One may at
first be disposed to wonder how such multifarious and
continuous attention is possible even for the Great One, but
the student of occultism will understand, as he knows that
the higher mind or causal body even of the ordinary man can
attend to a number of things at once, and that without
interfering in any way with what the personality may be
doing down here.
An illustration from the life after death may make this
·clear. First comes a period on the emotional plane-in
purgatory as our Roman Catholic friends would say-and
then the man finds himself in his mental body on the mental
plane, which is as much above the emotional plane as that is
above the physical. On the plane of the mind itself, thought
takes form instantly, and as the man thinks of those whom he
has loved on earth, he unconsciously creates thought-forms
of them in the subtle matter of the plane. The people thus
represented are conscious of these forms in their own causal
bodies, recognising them as additional outlets of expression,
and gladly pour themselves out through them. They thus
enjoy an intercourse with their friend in the "heaven-
world " more real and vivid than was possible when he was
on earth ; but such intercourse is quite unknown to the ones
still on earth. In this way a man living in the world may
be simultaneously present with a number of friends in the
heaven-world ; and if all this is possible even for the ordinary
mortal, we can understand that it is quite possible for Him
fO A HELP TO WORSHIP
who is the Teacher of Angels and of men to give His blessing
continuously wherever Mass is being said, and in many
places at the same time, while yet carrying on freely in the
personality any exalted work on which He may be engaged.
Such conceptions, however, may be difficult for readers
unfamiliar with the hidden side of things ; and they may find
it easier to approach the subject by the heart or the intuition.
They may be sufficiently sensitive to feel or to know the
reality of the Mass without understanding in detail how the
result is achieved.
After the Prayer of Consecration the next step is to
prepare around the offerings tubes of various grades of subtle
matter-etheric, emotional and higher-in which the line of
communication from our Lord may be inserted. It is often
necessary to consecrate a number of wafers besides the larger
one which the celebrant holds up at the elevation, and which
is known as the priest's wafer. " It is clearly not the
business of the Angel of the Presence to consecrate more
than the priest intends," and the priest's intention is marked
by the tubes which he constructs. As he utters the words
"bless, approve and ratify them," he makes the holy sign
thrice over the wafer or wafers and wine jointly, and builds
around them by his thought and will tubes of etheric,
emotional and mental matter respectively.
For the higher mental (or causal) and intuitional levels,
separate tubes are required-one at each level around the
wafer or wafers, and one around the wine. That is not
because the higher matter is more difficult to affect, for it is
not, but because such matter is further from his ordinary
thought, and a greater effort is therefore required. As the
priest says "that they may become for us His most precious
Body and Blood," he makes two crosses and builds two tubes
of causal matter ; and at the words, " He blessed, brake and
gave it to His disciples," he makes a last cross over the
THE CONSECRATION AND HYMNS 41
wafers, and builds around them a tube of irituitional matter.
At this point the Angel of the Presence appears, and as the
priest says " This is My body " he extends by his thought
the line of communication with our Lord from the Angel to
the wafers, and the force flows in. Similarly as he says
"He blessed it and gave it to His disciples," he makes a last
cross over the wine, and builds around it a tube of intuitional
matter. Then as he says" This is My Blood," he extends
the line of communication from the Angel to the wine, and
the consecration is complete.
Then follow the hymns " Thee we adore," and " 0 come,
all ye faithful." "
"The splendour of the scene to clairvoyant
vision during the singing of these hymns is beyond all
description, for the Angels join in them with a truly celestial
fervour, and the outburst of their love and devotion not only
fills the vast thought-edifice with living fire, but enormously
enriches and adorns it."
The introduction of two hymns at this point is peculiar to
the Liberal Catholic liturgy, and is most appropriate. The
first, being one of adoration, is sung kneeling. It impresses
upon us the great fact of the Real Presence. Our Lord is
in a special sense the channel for our world of God the Son,
and His life, which He sends us, is also that of the Second
Person ; which life is present indeed in every particle of His
system, but not at all in the same way, nor in anything
like the same degree, as it is in the consecrated elements. ·
For the second hymn, which is one of praise and rejoicing,
we stand. It is a greeting to God the Son, present on His
altar, and it is also, in its deeper meaning, a reminder of that
birth of the heavenly child, the Christ principle within our-
selves, to which we sho1,1ld all aspire. On _
our long pilgrimage
towards that achievement, the blessed Sacrament is·a powerful
aid if we will exert ourselves. It rests with us to decide
how far we will avail ourselves of the proffered help. The
H.w. I>
A HELP TO WORSHIP
divine grace never forces its way ; if it did, we should
become automata, instead of Gods in the making. True is
the proverb, " God helps the man who helps himself."
That truth is beautifully expressed in a Collect from the
Anglican prayer book which is used in our service of Vespers,
and begins " Almighty God, the Protector ofall who trust in
Thee." To put our trust in Him is indeed to ensure His
protection.
The birth of the heavenly child will be accomplished at
Initiation, when we shall enter on the narrow way t.
hat leads
to " life eternal," that true and complete life of the Spirit
which is led by the glorious Saints of God, and which is
eternal because there is no possibility of falling back from it.
In this hymn we invite, as it were; one another to come
" faithful, joyful and triumphant, to Bethlehem," that we
may join at any rate the humbler ranks of " the Church
triumphant." Here Bethlehem is, of course, no earthly
spot, any more than Jerusalem (Hiero-Salem, or the holy
peace) is always, as mentioned in scripture, the earthly city of
that name. The little child that shall be born within us will
increase-as in the Gospel allegory-" in wisdom and
stature, and in favour with God and man " (Luke ii. 52).
This is by no means the only place in our beautiful liturgy
where we are reminded ofour divine destiny. The Canticle
that follows the Asperges reminds us that we are " builded
together for an habitation of God through the Spirit " ; the
Confession speaks of our becoming " the unspotted mirror of
God's power and the image of His goodness " ; when we have
received holy communion, the priest says : " Now have we
communion with our Lord Jesus Christ; soon with open
face shall we behold Him, and, rejoicing in His glory, be
made like unto Him. Then shall His true disciples be
brought by Him with exceeding joy before the presence of
His Father's glory." This refers to Initiation, when we
THE CONSECRATION AND HYMNS 43
shall stand in the emotional body before the World Teacher,
or, perchance, before another Deputy of Him Who alone
can admit to membership in the Great White Brotherhood.
Then shall we be acknowledged as His true disciples and be
brought before the glory of His Father's presence, for we
shall be enwrapped for a time in the spkndour which flows
from the One Initiator through His appointed Deputy.
And again at the end of the Mass the second blessing (that
of the First or Ruling Ray) expresses the wish that the peace
of the Holy Ones may "brood over us, Their power uplift
us, till we stand where the One Initiator is invoked, till we
see His Star shine forth." That glorious Star has been
adopted as the symbol of the Order of the Star in the East.
It is five-pointed, a pentagram, and when it shines out at
Initiation, it may be taken as an assurance that he or she who
has thus "joined the stream," shall, in due course, attain
divine manhood and become the fivefold man, able to live
and work, no longer on one plane only, but on five planes,
the physical, emotional, mental, intuitional and spiritual.
D 2
CHAPTER VIII
THE POURING OUT OF THE FORCE
AFTER the two hymns we make a second offering (through
the sacred elements) of love, devotion and sacrifice. The
first was made immediate!y after the offering and censir~g of
wafer and wine, in the prayer before the Preface, when we
linhd them spiritually with ourselves and offered through
them our sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving. Then in the
Prayer of Consecration we broke that link, praying that He
would purify and hallow them. Now, when they have
received the divine blessing, our further offering " through
them" cannot interfere with their purity. As the priest
says the words love, devotion, sacrifice, minds and hearts, he
makes five crosses, and we should mentally offer our five
vehicles of consciousness-spirit, intuition, intellect, mind
and heart, or what the student calls atma, buddhi, manas,
mental and astral. We then pray that His holy Angel-the
Angel of the Presence-may bear this 9ur oblation to His
altar on high. That " altar " is our Lord the World-
Teacher, Who ever offers Himself as a Channel for the life
of the Second Person. He is an " eternal High Priest,'' the
true Officiant in all the Sacraments administered by His
priests.
" This Angel is an extension of the consciousness of the
Christ Himself, and as our Lord who extended that Ray
draws it back into Himself, it bears with it the impress which
we, through the sacred elements, have stamped upon it.
Thus the force which we ourselves down here have generated
44
THE POURING OUT OF THE FORCE 45
is actually utilised in higher worlds, and we have the un-
speakable privilege of contributing, in however small a
degree, to that great reservoir of spiritual force from which
Christ's priests draw their power when they administer the
holy Sacraments. So when the Angel disappears with his
glorious smile at the moment when he is mentioned in the
prayer, this is what he bears with him as our tribute oflove."
On his departure "a certain rearrangement becomes
necessary." Hitherto there have been "three direct links
with the Christ in full operation-the Angel, the Host and
the Chalice, if for the moment we understand the last term
to mean not the cup itself, but the intensely charged Wine
and Water which it contains. These three channels have
each its special function, bearing to one another the same
sort of relation that we find in all threefold manifestation,
from the Three persons of the Ever-Blessed Trinity down
to the three essential qualities of matter. All three in this
case are filled with the life of our Lord, and are indeed
extensions of His consciousness, though each represents
what we, from our lower point of view, should call a different
part of that consciousness. So when one of these disappears,
it must either be replaced by some other, or the representation
must be left imperfect."
The Host seems to represent our Lord's monad, the
Chalice His ego, and the priest will now represent, so far as
may be, His personality. In order that he may do this "he
prays that he may so celebrate the mysteries as to be filled
with the mighty power and blessing of the Lord. And as.
he says these words he makes the sign ofpower over the Host,
over the Chalice and over himself, so that the threefold
representation may be restored."
He then pours out the force upon the people, making the
holy sign three times over the Chalice, and asking the Christ
to hallow, quicken and bless them. Meanwhile, the people
A HELP TO WORSHIP
should will earnestly to show forth their Lord's praise and
glorify Him both in their hearts and in their lives.
During the following prayer they pour out their hearts in
gratitude to God the Son as they confess that only through
His help can they worship at all, inasmuch as their very
selves, souls and bodies are held together and kept in existence
by His power by Whom all things were made, yea all things
both in heaven and earth (on the higher planes, just as much
as on the lower ones), with Whom as the indwelling life all
things exist, and in Whom all things live and move and have
their being.
And while they thus praise, " they receive, as ever, far
more than they give, for as the priest makes the three crosses
with the Host over the Chalice, he wills strongly that the
holy influence from the monadic level should descend into
the ego in its threefold manifestation of spirit, intuition and
intelligence ; and then, as he makes the two crosses between
the Chalice and his own breast, he draws that influence into
his own mental and astral bodies, that through him it may
radiate fully upon his people."
In this prayer we acknowledge that only " in the name
and through the mediation " of God the Son can we worship
at all. Here, as in the Invocation to the Holy Trinity with
which all our services begin, " name " means strength. The
"mediation" of God the Son is not, as commonly supposed,
the begging off or appeasing for us of some imaginary
"wrath of God." God is utterly incapable ofsuch a human
weakness as wrath. The latter expression is only a clumsy
way of expressing the law of divine justice, known to the
student as the law of karma-that whatsoever a man sows
that shall he also reap. The mediation of the Second
Person consists in the fact that He provides the medium, or
means, through which alone we can worship, namely, our
higher bodies as well as the lower, " yea, all things both in
THE POURING OUT OF THE FORCE 47
heaven and earth." He created and sustains, throughout the
ages of ages, the forms of all living things on all the seven
planes. He holds them together now as ever by His mighty
will ; and if that were relaxed even for an instant, our very
souls and selves-monad, ego, personality-would immedi-
ately be dissipated or dissolved into still higher matter out of
which they were originally builded.
It is this same inability of ours to worship at all without
the help of the Second Person that we briefly acknowledge in
the familiar words " through Christ our Lord," which form
the termination of so many of our prayers.
Another oft-recurring phrase may be considered here-
" in the unity of the Holy Spirit." It suggests to the mind
two questions: (1) What is" the unity"? and (2) why is it
spoken of as belonging to the Holy Spirit ? (1) Is not the
unity that great unity in which every individual life, in
whatever kingdom, is a sharer-the oneness of the Supreme,
the Logos, who gives a particle of His own Nirvanic body to
every life in His system ? Those particles continue to be
united as particles of His own body, while, to the separated
selves, they often appear to have widely divergent interests.
(2) The Holy Spirit "comes down" as far as the Nirvanic
plane, but not farther, in full consciousness. That plane, or,
to be more precise, the highest subdivision of it, the atomic
subplane, is, as it were, His lowest thinking vehicle, corre-
sponding for Him to the brain in us ; and the unity of all
life may, in a sense, be called His unity, because we must
rise to union with Him if we would sense it. The Master,
who has taken the fifth Initiation, has done this. His
highest vehicle of consciousness is part of" the brain " of the
Holy Ghost. He stands in somewhat the same relation to
the Third Person as a disciple does to his Master ; and, in
virtue of that relation, the Master can at will put His thought
back into that of the Holy Ghost and know what He is
A HELP TO WORSHIP
thinking, m so far as even the Master's vehicle can
grasp it.
Of course the life of all Three Persons comes right down
to the physical plane ; but, just as a man does not think with
all his body, though his life pervades the whole, so the
thought of the Holy Spirit is not on the earth, which is His
footstool, but in the heavens which are His throne.
This line of thought may help us dimly to understand
how that exalted Being the World-Teacher-who came in
Palestine and is once more at our doors-can act as the
Representative for our globe of the Second Person. He has
attained to consciousness on the paranirvanic plane, and is
united in a sense, not only with God the Holy Ghost, but
also with God the Son (the Wisdom as He is sometimes
called), and will be so even more completely when His work
as World-Teacher is finished, and He takes the still higher
position-highest in this world on the Teaching Ray-of
Buddha, the supremely enlightened. "Buddha" is not,
strictly speaking, the name 'of an individual, but of a certain
rank or Initiation in the Occult Hierarchy, although the last
Holder of that exalted office, the Lord Gautama, Founder
of the Buddhist religion, is commonly called the Buddha ot
the Lord Buddha, as if that were His name. There is, in
fact, a new Buddha for each of the seven Root Races which
succeed one another while humanity is on this earth. The
Lord Gautama was the Buddha of the Fourth or Atlantean
Race, and the present Wodd-Teacher will be the Buddha of
the Fifth or Aryan Race.
The present World-Teacher is He Who came in Palestine
long ago, and is coming again now-the Lord Christ, as He
is often called. That name, however, tends to confuse Him
with the Second Person of the Trinity, Who is enormously
more exalted still.
The Blessed Three are what is known in the East as
THE POURING OUT OF THE FORCE 49
"Avatars," which means "they who descend." They
come down to those planes towards which we are ascending ;
an:d They can be touched in consciousness-the Third
Person oh the third plane (counting from the top) the
Nirvanic ; the Second Person on the second plane, the Para-
nirvanic; and the First Person on the first plane which is
called the Adhi or root plane, the highest of our seven.
The work of creation is in a sense divided between the
Second and Third Persons. The Third Person first builds
up with His own life the seven planes ofmatter (from highest
Nirvanic to physical) of which all forms in the system are to
consist-the globes, and the vehicles of all living creatures.
This vast process is briefly summed up in the second verse of
Genesis in the words " And the Spirit of God moved upon
the face of the waters." The Holy Ghost creates the seven
planes out of pre-existing and subtler matter-" the ever-
virgin Mother " of space. Then, out of matter of those
planes, created and held by the power of the Third Person,
the Second Person builds with His own life bodies or vehicles
of consciousness for the innumerable individual lives that are
to exist and gain experience in the system. He, as it were,
"leads down " all the lives to the physical plane, becoming
there incarnate, or made Resh, in the animal kingdom, and
rising thence is " made man " for us and for our salvation.
No brief form of words can possibly describe this vast and
age-long process; it can but hint at it and thus supply a peg
for our imagination. He, the Second Person, comes down
from heaven and is incarnate of the Holy Ghost and the
Virgin Mary, or virgin-mother, for the ever-virgin Mother
of space is already instinct with the life of the Holy Ghost.
In our Prayer of Consecration (Longer Form) another simile
is used-also very suggestive-" Who, abiding unchangeable
within Thyself, didst nevertheless, in the mystery of Thy
boundless love and Thine eternal sacrifice, breathe forth
50 A HELP TO WORSHIP
Thine own divine life into.Thy universe, and thus didst offer
Thyself as the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world,
dying in very truth that we might live."
The Virgin Mary of the Nicene Creed is not the Mother
of Jesus. The cult of our Lady really embodies three dis-
tinct and far-reaching ideas. I. The pure and holy Lady
who was the Mother of Jesus, and who has since, we are
told, passed over from the human line of evolution to the
Angelic, and makes it part of Her gracious and splendid work
to be the special protectrice ofevery human mother; II. The
meaning we have just been considering, the subtle matter
out of which the seven planes were builded; and III. The
feminine side of the Supreme, the Logos, who is not merely
the Father of His system, but Father-Mother, summing up
in Himself in infinite degree the very perfection of both
sexes.
After the pouring out of the divine blessing upon the
people comes the Commemoration of the Saints, and this in
the Longer Form speaks of" the wonderful grace and virtue
declared in holy Mary, the ever-virgin Mother, and in all
Thy glorious Saints from the beginning of the world." The
wording is so skilful that it appeals equally to those who think
of the Mother of Jesus and the Saints recognised by the
Church, and to those who prefer the deeper meaning of the
Mother of the worlds (the Cosmic Mother of Whom the
Second Person is incarnate), and of the glorious Saints whom
God has recognised, making Them His Agents for the
administration of our earth. These are the Guardians,
Guides and Leaders of humanity, "Who live but to do Thy
will as perfect channels of Thy wondrous power, to Whom
we ever offer heart-felt love and reverence."
The marvellous age-long process by which that consum-
mation of human evolution is attained is beautifully summed
up in the Prayer after the Consecration (Longer Form) as
THE POURING OUT OF THE FORCE 51
"the ineffable sacrifice ofThy Son, the mystery of His won-
drous incarnation, His mighty resurrection, and His trium-
phant ascension." Here the "wondrous incarnation" is the
whole long sweep of the downward arc of evolution from
Nirvanic to physical and the:upward arc to the human kingdom
where He "is made man" in ourselves. The "mighty re-
surrection " may be taken as the attainment of the Fourth
Initiation which makes a man "Arhat," the venerable or sin-
less. The "triumphant ascension " is the Fifth Initiation at
which he becomes super-man, entering the ranks of " the
Church Triumphant." The technical name is the Sanskrit
word Asekha (there is no English equivalent), which is de-
rived from the negative letter a and sekha, meaning a pupil or
disciple, and means that he who was disciple is Master now,
able Himselfto take disciples and to lead them across the ocean
of births and deaths "to the other shore."
If we could raise our consciousness to the lntuitional or
Buddhic level at the Commemoration ofthe Saints we should,
as we "join with Them in worship," immediately know
ourselves to be one with Them ; but without doing quite
that we may feel a faint thrill of exultation, really an impulse
from the intuition affecting the emotional or astral body. In
any case we can take the words as a reminder of our own
divine nature and destiny.
After this commemoration the next step is to pour out
over the world the force which has been accumulating in
our Temple. The force which emanates from the Host is
of three kinds, which, for convenience of reference, we may
call A, B and C. Force A radiates in all directions like the
warmth and light of the sun. It plays upon the congregation
and upon the world, "penetrating the walls of the church as
though they were not there, and influencing a considerable
section of the surrounding world." Force B may be
described as a kind of higher octave of vibrations which goes
52 A HELP TO WORSHIP
only to those who are truly worshipping. It is thus described
by our Presiding Bishop, as he first saw it in a village church
in Sicily. " The effect as seen by clairvoyant sight was most
striking and profoundly impressive, for to each of these
latter" (who were truly worshipping) "there darted from
the uplifted Host a ray of fire, which set the higher part of
the astral body of the recipient glowing with the most intense
ecstasy. Through the astral body, by reason ofits close rela-
tion with it, the intuitional vehicle was also strongly affected,
and although in none of these peasants could it be said to be in
any way awakened, its growth within its shell was unques-
tionably distinctly stimulated, and its capability ofipstinctively
influencing the astral was enhanced.... In even the most
undeveloped intuitional vehicle there is a great storehouse of
force, and this shines out upon and through the astral body,
even though it be unconsciously and automatically."
"Force itself is always invisible, and when we speak of
seeing force C radiating from the Host, it must be understood
that what we see is its most wonderful and beautiful manifes-
tation in finer forms of matter-a stream of liquified light, of
living gold-dust, or perhaps better still, of star-dust., the
flashing fire of cosmic space. No earthly analogy is really
appropriate, but we may perhaps think of it as a charge of
electricity-an amount stored up, to be released only by
touching it, the required touch being that of the Directing
Angel."
The pouring out of this force begins as we pray that His
strength, His peace and His blessing ·may be spread abroad
upon His world, and that His many children may awake to
a knowledge of their own essential divinity, and " know
themselves to be one with Thee, even as Thou art one with
the Father." "The great outpouring upon the neighbour-
hood is one of the principal objects of the Eucharist. It
commences now, but continues all through the Salutation of
THE POURING OUT OF THE FORCE 53
peace and the Communion-practically through the rest of
the service," a distinct flood of force C "pouring out at high
pressure through the doors of the eucharistic edifice, and
being directed and specialised by the minor Angels to whom
the task has been assigned."
CHAPTER IX
FROM HOLY COMMUNION TO THE FINAL BLESSINGS
BEFORE proceeding to the Communion, the priest once
more draws the people to him with the Salutation of Peace,
and then prays that we may so " receive the sacred mysteries
of Thy Body and Blood that our souls may be lifted into the
immensity of Thy love."
When the priest and people have communicated he washes
the Chalice in the usual form, and then says," Under the veil
of earthly things now have we communion with our Lord
Jesus Christ; soon with open face shall we behold Him, and,
rejoicing in His glory, be made like unto Him. Then shall
His true disciples be brought by Him with exceeding joy
before the presence of His Father's glory."
The coupling ofthese two things-our taking Communion
and our beholding Him face to face-is an indication that the
one is intended as a help towards the other, and will gradually
lead to it if we will let it-if we will do our part. And when
shall we "with open face behold Him" ? At Initiation.
That First Portal and the narrow way to which it is the
entrance, lie straight before us, if we choose to exert our-
selves ; and this fact is brought to our notice three times over
in the Longer Form, and twice in the Shorter. The two
occasions which occur in both are now after the Communion,
and in the second blessing at the end of the service, when the
priest prays that we may "stand where the One Initiator is
invoked " and " see His Star shine forth."
In the Longer Form there is a third occasion, shortly
54
HOLY COMMUNION TO FINAL BLESSINGS 55
before the Sanctus-when we offer ourselves "to be a holy
and continual sacrifice " in order that we " may hear that
His most joyful voice,., Come unto Me, 0 ye tha:t be blessed
of My Father, and possess the kingdom which is prepared for
you from the beginning of the world.' "
When in course of time, in this birth or another, we come
to Initiation, we shall hear the most joyful voice of the
Deputy appointed to admit us to the Great Brotherhood of
Masters and Initiates. The Deputy may be either the World-
Teacher or One of rank only less exalted-the "Chohan,"
or Lord (for our earth) ofone of the seven Rays or great lines
of evolution.
Then shall we behold Him (the Deputy) face to face, for
we shall stand before Him in the emotional or astral body and
look into His eyes. Then, too, shall we, " rejoicing in His
glory, be made like unto Him," for He will expand His own
emotional body till it envelops the candidate. Also, He will
bring us "before the presence of His Father's glory" (the
One Initiator's) for in response to his appeal-" do I this
in Thy name and for Thee? "-the glory of the Lord of
the World will descend upon Him and through Him upon
the candidate.
The kingdom prepared from ~e beginning of the world is
one over our own lower selves, which will then have been
dedicated to the service of the Inner Ruler Immortal. That
kingdom may also be understood in another sense, as a share
in the work of the Lord and true King of the World, under
Whose leadership the Holy Ones ever labour for the welfare
of all that lives. Initiation admits to membership in the
Great Brotherhood of which the Holy Ones are the Chiefs.
That Brotherhood is the " kingdom of God " or " of
heaven " so often mentioned by our Lord. ' Initiation should
be the immediate object of our aspiration, because it is the
appointed and only way by which true holiness can be ulti-
A HELP TO WORSHIP
mately attained. It is, in fact, the one Baptism (with the
Holy Ghost and with fire) which we acknowledge in the
Nicene ·Creed. " No other road at all is there to tread."
. Our Presiding Bishop's book " The Masters and the
Path " contains a detailed account of a First Initiation,
from which the following is an extract : " Then the Lord
turned to the other Master-s and said, ' I find this candidate
satisfactory ; do all present agree to his reception into our
company ? ' And all answered, ' We agree.' Then the
Initiator rose from His seat and turned towards Shamballa "
(where the Lord of the World resides) "and called aloud,
' Do I this, 0 Lord of Life and Light and Glory, in Thy
name and for Thee ?' Over His head in response flashed
forth the Blazing Star, which conveys the assent of the King,
and all bowed low before it, while the Angel-music rang out
in a triumphant burst like some great royal march. And to
those strains the candidate advanced, led by the two Masters "
(his Sponsors on this occasion) " and knelt before Him who
represented the One Who alone can grant admission to the
Brotherhood. A line of dazzling light, like a flash of light-
ning standing still, extended from the Star to the heart of the
Initator, and from Him to the heart ofthe candidate. Under
the influence of·that tremendous magnetism, the tiny Silver
Star of consciousness, which represents the monad in the can-
didate, swelled out in glowing brilliancy until it filled his
causal body, and for a wonderful moment the monad and the
ego were one, even as they will be permanently when adept-
ship is attained. The Lord placed His hands upon the head
of the candidate, and, calling him by his true name, said, ' In
the name of the One Initiator, whose Star shines above us,
I receive you into the Brotherhood of Eternal Life. See to
it that you are a worthy and useful member of it. You are
now safe for ever ; you have entered upon the stream ; may
you soon reach the further shore ! ' . . . And the Silver
HOLY COMMUNION TO FINAL BLESSINGS 51
Star seemed for a moment to expand and enfold the Initiator
and the new Brother in its blinding glory. And when they
came forth from that glory the robe of the neophyte was no
longer linen, but white silk, like those of the other Initiates."
When all who wish have received Communion, and the
celebrant has reminded us of the glorious destiny towards
which it is a help, all join in a grand ascription of praise to
the Most High, which is taken from the book of Revela-
tion ; and then we pray that the grace we have received may
be so grafted inwardly in our hearts that it'may bring forth
due fruit .of good and holy living. This prayer may be com-
pared to the " locking " of a talisman in order that its power
may not be fruitlessly dissipated. After that the priest turns
to us and prays that in our efforts the Lord may be with us.
Then turning to the altar he says, " Ite, missa est." Those
words are from the Roman Mass, and the precise meaning of
" missa " here is uncertain. The Latin is therefore left in
its original vagueness, but the general sense is perfectly clear.
It is an intimation to the Angels that the Mass is at an end,
" their formal release from the service to which they have
been devoting themselves. It is the signal for a splendid
exodus of majestic, rainbow-coloured forms, each charged
with his proportion of the divine outpouring, and hastening
to fulfil the mission entrusted to him. The people respond
with all heartiness 'Thanks be to God,' thus again finally
expressing their gratitude to the holy Angels who have given
us such wondrous help, as well as to Him who sent them."
The service concludes with two blessings. The first is a
prayer that the peace of God may keep our minds and hearts
in the knowledge and love of God and of His Son, Christ our
Lord, a.nd that the divine blessing may be" amongst" (really
within) us. This is known as the Second Ray blessing,
because its object is to help us to walk aright spiritually, and
that is the work of the Second or Teaching Ray.
H.W. ll
58 A HELP TO WORSHIP
The next blessing is a prayer that we may attain to Initia-
tion, and is known as the First Ray blessing, b~cause the
granting of Initiation belongs to the work of the First or
Ruling Ray.
The divine peace, which is invoked for our helping in the
first blessing, is a marvellous thing. It is far from being
merely negative-an absence of pain or anxiety. It is
equally far from being a cessation ofactivity. Rather is it an
activity so intense and wholehearted that there is no room for
thought ofself. It may be likened to the flywheel ofa mono-
rail carriage which runs on a single rail instead oftwo. That
wheel revolves vertically at such an incredible speed that it
appears to the eye exactly as if it were motionless, while in
reality it is alive with immense power, the momentum being
so great that the wheel ·cannot be deflected from the per-
pendicular, and easily keeps the carriage erect.
The great peace ever abides in the hearts ofthe Holy Ones,
because They have completely purified and controlled the
personality, and begun to live consciously in the monad.
What is for us the higher or " divine " self is for Them the
lower, and is offered in the service of all life. They " live in
the eternal," the monad, offering up even Their own good-
ness in the service of Him who is in all that lives. There is
a well-known and beautiful hymn which tells us so.
Holy, holy, holy, all Thy Saints adore Thee,
Casting down their golden crowns around the glassy sea.
Here the "crown" is the higher self (as we call it), and it
is golden because there is nought but love in it. Even this
golden crown is cast down "around the glassy sea "-the
peace that passeth all understanding, the peace of Him with
whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.
In the first of the two blessings the peace is invoked, and
then the blessing of the Holy Four. As we have seen in an
HOLY COMMUNION TO FINAL BLESSINGS 59
earlier chapter, orthodoxy has so identified God Almighty
with God the Father as to have practically lost all knowledge
of the very existence of the One God, the Supreme Being of
our system of worlds. And yet He exists, and remains un-
changeable within Himself, while giving life even to the
Blessed Three, as He does also in infinitely varying degrees
to every one of the innumerable lives, including ourselves.
To realise the full force of those wonderful words, "God
Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost," we
must understand by " God Almighty " the One, the Logos ;
and then we have the One and the Three, or" One God in
Trinity, and Trinity in Unity," as the Athanasian Creed
expresses it.
The second blessing speaks of " the strong aid " of the
compassion and wisdom of the Holy Ones, and it is important
for us to realise how strong that aid can be, if we will let it.
For that thought is an encouragement; the way of the
Spirit is not easy, and we need (among other things) courage
to persevere. We can get this by using our imaginations to
appreciate a little the vastness of Their compassion. That
compassion is for the sorrows of the whole world. Those
who know ofTheir existence are fortunate, and do not stand
so much in need of it as the many who do not yet know. But
if we serve Them-by making ourselves channels for the
redeeming force of Their compassion-we cannot fail to
benefit by it.
They "know the self as One," and consequently know,
and feel as Their own, the pain and sorrow of that " whole
creation " which " groaneth and travaileth in pain together
until now" (Rom. viii. 22). Their attitude towards this
mass ofsuffering is well expressed (in a passage already quoted
in another connection) as" mental woe unspeakable, woe for
the living dead" (alive physically but dead spiritually), "and
helpless pity for the men of karmic sorrow, the fruit of karma
60 A HELP TO WORSHIP
that Sages dare not still. For it is written, Teach to eschew
all causes " (of suffering) " the ripple of effect, as the great
tidal wave, thou shalt let run its course."
They undergo "terrible toil and profound sadness "-for
others, not for Themselves-but They experience at the
same time "a great and ever-increasing delight," the joy of
the Saviours of the world-eager and consciously able to help.
Their compassion must be greatest for the many who know
not as yet of the Good Law, and do but suffer blindly the
consequences of their ·own misdeeds. The need of those who
know the Law and are trying to conform their lives to it is
less urgent ; but by doing our best to carry out the benevolent
will. of the Holy Ones, we may become servants of the ser-
vants of God, and in so doing shall enjoy "the strong aid of
Their compassion and Their wisdom."
Their compassion is indeed great, but They know how
difficult it is for us with our cold hearts to understand Their
love-for ourselves as for all that lives-and They stand
there serving us (however little we may realise it) and
waiting, as it were, to befound out and understood.
Their compassion and wisdom are ever flowing into the
world, and reach all who will open themselves to that benign
influence ; but the priest, and to a greater extent the Bishop,
can by virtue of their office invoke a special flow of that
blessing. The Bishop, in doing so, makes the sign of the
cross three times (instead of once as tbe priest does) in
token of his closer access to the source from whence it comes.
As we receive the two stately blessings, we should earnestly
will so to live that the great peace may brood over us, the
power uplift us, " till we stand where the One Initiator is
invoked, till we see His Star shine forth."
There is a little book called "At the Feet of the Master,"
which has been translated into many languages, and which
will tell us quite plainly how we must live to reach " the
HOLY COMMUNION TO FINAL BLESSINGS 61
strait gate " of Initiation. In so far as we are living in that
way, we are certainly drawing near, and the time will come
for each one when the Master who has long been watching
and helping him, will make Himself known and dr~w the
pupil nearer to Himself.
The second blessing speaks of the Holy Ones as those
" whose pupils we aspire to become." That is because we
shall inevitably become Their disciples if we live as described
in "At the Feet of the Master." For none can reach the
Gate without Their help. Only from the holy can come
holiness, that divine grace which is as necessary for spiritual
progress as our own efforts. But they are always on the out-
look for apprentices to help Them in Their work, and when
the disciple is ready the Master is ready also. Anyone who
is making an unselfish effort stands out visibly on higher
planes, like a candle on a dark night ; and They see and
notice us long before we are able to stand in Their presence-
before we have gained that confidence in Their power
and our own essential divinity which makes discipleship a
possibility. ·
The great peace, which pass.es all understanding, is known
i!l its fulness only to those who'have trodden to its appointed
end the Path to which we aspire, thus unfolding iIJ. them-
selves the consciousness of the Nirvanic plane ; but even
here and now it is possible to know something of that" sacred
peace which nothing can disturb, and in which the soul grows
as does the holy Rower upon the still lagoon." That peace
can " keep our hearts and minds " (our emotional and mental
bodies) "in the knowledge and love of God, and of His Son
Christ our Lord."
The heaven is here for which we wait
The life eternal now ;
Who is th.is Lord of time and fate ?
Thou, brother, sister, thou !
A HELP TO WORSHIP
The power, the kingdom are thine own,
Arise, 0 royal heart ;
Press inward past the doubting zone
And prove the God thou art." *
* From" Out of the Silence," by J as. Rhoades (John Lane, the Bodley
Head, Vigo Street, W. 1).
CHAPTER X
THE NICENE CREED
THIS Creed appears only in the Longer Form of our
Mass, where a prefatory note describes it as "the Church's
ancient presentation of the Christian revelation," thus dis-
claiming, as it were, any idea that it is necessarily correct or
satisfactory in the form in which it has come down to us.
Our version differs in two or three words from the Anglican,
and reasons for the slight alterations are given in footnotes.
The Anglican version is here printed for the reader's con-
vemence.
"I believe in one God the Father Almighty, Maker of
heaven and earth, And of all things visible and invisible ;
"And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of
God, Begotten of his Father before all worlds, God ef God,
Light of Light, Very God of Very God, Begotten, not made,
Being of one substance with the Father, By whom all things
were made ; Who for us men, and for our salvation, came
down from heaven, And was incarnate by the Holy Ghost
of the Virgin Mary, And was made man, And was crucified
also for us under Pontius Pilate. He suffered and was buried,
And the third day he rose again according to the Scriptures,
And ascended into heaven, And sitteth on the right hand of
the Father. And he shall come again with glory to judge
both the quick and the dead ; Whose kingdom shall have
no end.
"And I believe in the Holy Ghost, the Lord and giver of
life, Who proceedeth from the Father and the Son, Who with
63
A HELP TO WORSHIP
the Father and the Son together is worshipped and glorified,
Who spake by the Prophets. And I believe one Catholick
and Apostolick Church. I acknowledge one Baptism for the
remission of sins. And I look for the Resurrection of the
dead, And the life of the world to come. Amen."
Our Liturgy (edition 1924, p. 5) allows us "the widest
measure of intellectual liberty " in dealing with Scriptures
and Creeds ; let us avail ourselves of that liberty to consider
the sources of this Creed, and how far its meaning is correct
as it stands-taking as a guide our Presiding Bishop's book,
"The Christian Creed." The quotations in this chapter
are from that book unless otherwise stated.
The Bishop has applied his great abilities as a seer to an
investigation into the origin of the Creeds, with illuminating
results, of which an epitome is here given.*
The Nicene Creed is almost entirely based upon two earlier
documents which had no direct connection with one another,
but which hav~ been ingeniously dovetailed together by men
who failed to understand the real meaning ofeither, and took
great liberties with both.
The Bishop gives translations of these documents which
are here reproduced, labelled for convenience A and B.
Document A. "We believe in God the Father, from
whom comes the system-yea, our world and all things
therein, whether seen or unseen ;
" And in God the Son, most holy, alone-born from His
Father before all the reons, not made but emanated, being
of the very substance of the Father, true God from the
true God, true Light from the true Light, by whom all
forms were made ; who for us men came down from heaven
and entered the dense sea, yet riseth thence again in ever
greater glory to a kingdom without end ;
" And in God the Holy Ghost, the Lifegiver, emanating
* For this epitome the Bishop is not responsible.
THE NICENE CREED
also from the Father, equal with Him and with the Son in
glory ; who manifesteth through His Angels ;
" We recognise one brotherhood of holy men as leading
to the Greater Brotherhood above, and one initiation for
emancipation from the fetters of sin and for escape from the
wheel o'f birth and death into eternal life."
Document B. " Then shall the candidate be bound upon
the wooden cross, he shall die, he shall be buried, and shall
descend into the underworld ; after the third day he shall be
brought back from the dead, and shall be carried up into
heaven to be the right hand of Him from Whom he came,
having learnt to guide (or_rule) the living and the dead."
The document A is precise, clear, and satisfactory. Its
second paragraph is a brief statement of the age-long process
of human evolution, from the time when God the Son
" breathed forth His own divine life into His universe " till
that life reascends through the lower kingdoms to the human
-thence to rise " in ever greater glory to a kingdom without
end."
The World-Teacher, when He came in Palestine, gave
His disciples much teaching about that great sweep of
evolution, summing it up afterwards in this brief paragraph,
intended to be a kind of memoria technica to recall it to their
minds.
The document B consists ofdirections for the performance
of a ceremony which used to be carried out in ancient Egypt
when a candidate was to be initiated as a member of that
great Brotherhood which carries out the divine plan of
evolution on this earth.
The actual initiation ~s not carried out on the physical
plane at all, but on the emotional or astral ; and for that the
candidate was withdrawn (as he still is) from the physical
body. But in old Egypt, before leaving the body, he lay
down of his own free will "on a huge wooden cross which
66 A HELP TO WORSHIP
was hollowed ~o as to receive and support the human body.
To this his arms were lightly bound, the end of the cord
being carefully left loose in order to typify the entirely
voluntary nature of the bondage.
" The candidate then passed into a deep trance, or, in
other words, he left the physical body, and for the time
functioned entirely in the astral. While in this condition
his body was borne away into a vault still lower down,
beneath the floor of the hall of initiation, and was laid in an
immense sarcophagus-a process which, as far as the physical
body was concerned, was not at all inaptly symbolised as
death and burial. . . .
"Only after three clear days and nights and part of a
fourth had passed, was the still entranced candidate . . .
raised from the sarcophagus in which he had lain, and borne
into the outer air at the eastern side of the pyramid or temple,
so that the first rays of the rising sun might fall upon his face
and awaken him from his long sleep. . . .
"For three long journeys round our planetary chain and
part of a fourth, the monadic essence sinks deeper and ever
deeper into the slough of dense matter, and only when in~the
fourth round the sun arises (when the Lords of the Flame
appear upon earth) does that essence rise from the dead, and
begin at last to enter upon that mighty sweep of its upward
art which in the end shall set it at the right hand of the
Father."
It will be seen that the second paragraph of document A
was a brief description of the evolutionary process which was
symbolised in the ritual of B. Our Lord made use of the
latter to illustrate His teaching on evolution, and apparently
gave His disciples the actual wording of the ritual, which was
handed down and ultimately utilised by the authors of the
Nicene Creed. These altered the future tense of the ritual
-"shall be bound upon the wooden cross ... shall die
THE NICENE CREED
... shall be buried," etc.-to the past tense-" was
crucified . . . suffered; and was buried," etc. ; and dove-
tailed B into A, taking other great liberties with the originals
in order to turn them into an account of the death, re-
surrection and ascension of the Christ as described in the
Gospels.
Now let us consider the Creed in detail. The first para-
graph is taken from document A-slightly altered for the
worse. The great change from the original meaning
begins in the second paragraph, where " one Lord Jesus
Christ 1
' was substituted for "God the Son, most holy."
That substitution of the individual Teacher for the Second
Person ofthe Trinity paved the way for all the other changes.
This tremendous change was ingeniously effected by chang-
ing a few letters, for " in the earliest copies written in
Greek which have as yet been clairvoyantly seen by our
investigators, the words now rendered as IESOUNCHRISTON,
and translated' Jesus Christ' appear either as IETRONARISTON
which would mean 'the chiefest healer (or deliverer),' or as
IERONARISTON, which seems to mean simply' the most holy
one.' "
" And was incarnate by the Holy Ghost of the Virgin
Mary." This is not in either A or B. It is a simple asser-
tion of the supposed miraculous birth of Jesus, as narrated in
the canonical Gospels. The Gospel of the Holy Twelve-
in the author's belief, more genuine and correct than the
received accounts-says no such thing. On the contrary,
it expressly attributes the fatherhood of Jesus, not to the
Holy Ghost, but to Joseph. It is interesting and instructive
to compare the two accounts.
The Holy Twelve (2nd edition, p. 4-, v. 6) says :
" Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing
I know not a man ? And the angel answered and said unto
her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon Joseph thy spouse,
68 A HELP TO WORSHIP
and the power ofthe Highest shall overshadow thee, 0 Mary ;
therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee
shall be called the Christ " ; and again (p. 4, v. 9), " the
angel Gabriel appeared unto Joseph in a dream and said unto
him, Hail, Joseph, thou art highly favoured, for the father-
hood of God is with thee. Blessed art thou among men, and
blessed be the fruit of thy loins. And as Joseph thought
upon these words he was troubled, and the angel of the Lord
said unto him, Fear not, Joseph, ... for thou hast found
favour with God, and behold thou shalt beget a child, and
thou shalt call his name J esu-Maria, for he shall save his
people from their sins."
In the received Gospels this has been skilfully turned into
the following : " When as his mother Mary was espoused to
Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child
of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph her husband, being a just
man, and not willing to make her -a public example, was
minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on
these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto
him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not
to take unto thee Mary thy wife ; for that which is con-
ceived in her is of the Holy Ghost " (Matt. i. I 8-20). And
in Luke i. 35, the angel is represented as saying to Mary :
"The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee" (not, be it noticed,
"upon Joseph thy spouse,'' as in the Holy Twelve).
But apart from the authenticity or otherwise of scriptural
statements, the idea ofa conception by the Holy Ghost would
have been well-nigh unthinkable if our minds had not been
familiarised with it from childhood by this statement in the
Gospels. There are accounts in the classics and in Indian
scriptures of children begotten by holy men and by angels ;
but who ever heard of the Holy Ghost begetting children ?
Moreover, there was no occasion for any miraculous birth in
the present instance~if, as our seers tell us and many
THE NICENE CREED
believe, it was not the Great Teacher but His disciple Jesus
who was born into this body, which was not taken by his
Lord until the baptism in the Jordan, when it was already
thirty years old. At any rate, there is no reason to believe
that any of the Initiates now living in the world was born in
any other wise than as ordinary mortals.
In our own liturgy the wording of the clause we have been
considering is changed to " and was incarnate of the Holy
Ghost and the Virgin Mary," which admits at any rate of a
reasonable interpretation. For, as we have seen in Chapter
VIII., the matter out of which the Second Person builds the
forms of all creatures is already instinct with the life of tbe
Third Person, Who begins the work of creation by building
the seven planes of matter of which our solar system consists.
This is clearly explained in our Bishop's book. "The
name ' virgin ' has frequently been applied to the atomic
matter of the various planes, because when in this condition
it does not of its own motion enter into any sort of combina-
tion, and so it remains, as it were, inert and unfruitful. But
no sooner is it electrified by the outpouring of the Holy
Ghost than it wakens into activity, combines into molecules,
and rapidly generates the matter of the lower subplanes"
(of each plane) "thus bringing into existence out of the
atomic ether what chemists call the elements ; and of this
matter, thus vivified by that first outpouring, are composed
the manifold forms which are ensouled by the monadic
essence. . . . The Second Aspect of the Logos, therefore,
takes form, not of the ' virgin ' matter alone, but of matter
which is already instinct and pulsating with the life of the
Third, so that both the life and the matter surround Him
as a vesture, and thus in very truth He is 'incarnate of the
Holy Ghost and the Virgin Mary.' "
" Here again the materialising tendency has introduced a
totally different idea by a very trifling alteration-in fact, by
A HELP TO WORSHIP
the insertion of a single letter, for in the earliest form the
name was not Maria but Maia, meaning simply mother."
This word Maia was probably taken direct from the Sanskrit
Maya, " which is so often used to express this same illusory
veil of matter which the Logos draws round Him in His
descent."
"And was made man." These words are not in either
document A or B. They seem to be intended to denote
some imagined and inexplicable change from God to Man
at the time of birth.
" And was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate. He
suffered and was buried."
With the exception of three words, this is taken from the
Egyptian ritual by the simple but unwarranted alteration of
the future tense to the past. But " under Pontius Pilate "
is derived from document A by turning " epi pontou piletbu "
into "hupo Pontiou Pilatou." Thus, by the ingenious
introduction of an "i " into "pontou," and the change of
"e " into "a" in "piletou," the original meaning of "on
the dense (or condensed) sea " (the astral plane) was turned
into "under Pontius Pilate."
That much maligned Roman Governor, who is repre-
sented in the Gospels as trying Jesus and allowing Him to be
crucified, really never saw Him, if our seers are rightly
informed. For they find that the accepted date of the
Christian era is a century too late, and that Jesus was really
born r05 B.c., when there were as yet no Romans in Palestine.
The crucifixion story is part of an allegory of the perfect-
ing of man, which really forms the main theme of the
Gospels, though considerably obscured by the introduction
of actual sayings and doings of our Lord. The crucifixion
stands for that rapid payment of old karmic debts which
usually takes place on the attainment of the Arhat level,
before the Fourth Initiation. The latter is represented by
THE NICENE CREED 71
the Resurrection, which, if the candidate has rightly endured
his "crucifixion," takes place, as a rule, immediately after-
wards.
It is true that Jesus was murdered, but by stoning-the
ordinary mode of execution among the Jews. The Gospels
themselves say that the crowd twice took up stones to cast at
Him ; but apparently He made Himself invisible and went
away. On a later occasion, however, when they did the
same, He saw that He could not help them by staying, and
He allowed them to stone the body, which He left at the
first stone. It is not by dying that He saves us (from any
imaginary " wrath of God ") but by living.
He is living now-as He was 2,000 years ago-in a
physical body, and has His house and large garden somewhere
on the southern slopes of the Himalaya mountains, amid
those beautiful and park-like lands (between the heat of the
plains and the snow of the heights) where many holy men
have their homes.
And near the residence of the World-Teacher is that of
His mighty Colleague, the Manu or Ruler of our Fifth or
Aryan Race-by no means to be confused with the Lord of
the World, Who is far greater than even these mighty Two.
The existence of those residences is' beautifully stated in a
sonnet (one of a set of three) by Mr. Wodehouse, which
appeared in the Theosophical Review:-
ye holy places of the earth, unknown
Save to the pilgrim bands that wend by night
Thither their wingless incorporeal flight,
Hail, and of all dearest and holiest one,
Sheltered it lies in Asian uplands lone,
Where that Great Pair, the Lords of Light and Might,
Bide the next ;eon and Their cyclic throne.
0 blessed homes of peace, thrice happy they
Who by pure life and service meet have earned
The freedom of such hearth ; to whom " 'tis given
72 A HELP TO WORSHIP
Nightly awhile there to be entertained,
There to find rest, and draw from that dear heaven
Refreshment for the labours of the day."
To return to the story of the death of Jesus, as it is still to
be witnessed in the inner worlds (or on higher planes)-after
stoning the body, the crowd hung it in contempt on a tree,
to which fact St. Peter twice refers in preaching to the Jews
saying, "whom ye slew and hanged on a tree" (Acts v. 30
and x. 39).
The crucifixion is narrated in the Gospels just as if it had
been an historical fact, and it therefore needed a trial and
condemnation to lead up to it in a natural way. These seem
to have been taken from the life of an obscure and fanatical
preacher who lived about a century after Jesus, and actually
was condemned and executed about A.D. 30. The Christian
era has evidently been dated from the pirth of this man,
instead of from that of Jesus.
In our own liturgy the punctuation of the passage we are
considering has been altered, making it read : " And was
crucified also for us ; under Pontius Pilate He suffered and
was buried:" This makes the sense correct, if we mentally
substitute" the condensed sea " (or astral plane) for" Pontius
Pilate."
" And the third day he rose again according to the Scrip-
tures, And ascended into heaven, And sitteth on the right
hand of the Father."
This is taken (with free alterations) from document B,
which says "after the third day he shall be brought back
from the dead, and shall be carried up into heaven to be the
right hand of Him from Whom he came." The words,
"according to the Scriptures," are not in either A or B, and
were probably introduced to justify the liberties taken with
the original.
To represent God the Son as sitting inactive in some
THE NICENE CREED 73
imagined heaven "on the right hand of the Father," was,
in~eed, a strange belittling of Him of Whom our Gloria says
that His " strength upholdeth and sustaineth all creation,"
and our Prayer of Consecration (Longer Form), "Who
djdst in the mystery of Thy boundless love and Thine
eternal sacrifice breathe forth Thine own divinelife into Thy
universe. . . . Omnipotent and all-pervading, by that self-
same sacrifice Thou dost continually uphold all creation,
resting not by night or day."
Very different are the words of document B, which reads,
"to be the right hand of Him from Whom he came."
That is precisely what the new Initiate becomes, for he
returns to his ordinary life-in, but not of, the world-as a
member and co-worker of the Great Brotherhood which
acts as the right hand of God for our earth. Of the Higher
Ones in that Brotherhood we say in the Prayer of Consecra-
tion (Longer Form), "Who live but to do Thy will as
perfect channels of Thy wondrous power, to Whom we ever
offer heartfelt love and reverence " ; and in the Com-
memoration of the Saints (Longer Form)," Who have been
the choice vessels ofThy grace and a shining light unto many
generations."
The Masters and Initiates act as the right hand ~£ God,
while those whose task it is to work against Them and
oppose the Light, are called His left hand, because they too,
in a sense, carry out His will. They are His instruments
·for working out the evil karma of the world. They are
permitted to do this because karma is, as the old Greeks
called it, ananke or necessity, and must be worked out. As
our Lord said, " Needs be that offences come, but woe to
that man by whom the offence cometh " (Matt. xviii. 7)..
The opponents of the Light are called " brothers of the
shadow." They are our brothers, inasmuch as all life,
without exception, is divine in essence. Evolution consists
11.w. T
74 A HELP TO WORSHIP
in that life coming gradually, by an age-long process, to know
its own divinity. In our Creed (Shorter Form) we affirm
our belief that " all His sons shall one day reach His Feet,
however far they stray." It is ofour brothers of the shadow
that St. Paul writes (Ephes. vi. I 2) : " For we wrestle not
against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against
powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world,
against spiritual wickedness in high places."
God does, indeed, rule the world, nay, more, His life is in
all creatures, the evil as well as the good, for He is immanent
as well as transcendent. 'In all activities it is His power that
is the doer. " Shall there be evil in a city, and the Lord
hath not done it?" (Amos iii. 6).
But the responsibility rests entirely with those who take
it upon themselves to become instruments for working out
the evil karma of their fellow-creatures. They do it by
their own choice and at their own risk and cost. " None
else compels," and they do but transfer the karma to their
own account. They will have to endure themselves here-
after suffering such as they now inflict.
" And he shall come again with glory to judge both the
quick and the dead."
This is not in either A or B, but is based on the parable
of the sheep and the goats (Matt. xxv. 31-46), which
describes a future coming of our Lord to divide mankind
into two classes. That subject is in no way connected with
the Egyptian ritual, but its importation here wa_
s probably
suggested by the words" having learnt to guide (or rule) the
living and the dead."
The passage in St. Matthew is misleading, for it implies
that a considerable proportion of mankind will "go aw.ay
into everlasting punishment." In the light of Theosophy,
it is not difficult to see what was the real subject of the
parable which reaches us in this strange form. The coming
THE NICENE CREED 75
to which our Lord referred will not be for the purpose of
condemning any one, but simply to decide which souls will
be ready to profit by the lessons to be given in the later races-
the sixth and seventh.
There will be a division on a grand scale at a distant time
in the future known as the "critical period" ; but that will
not be until the middle of the Fifth Round, and, as we are
now only at the middle of the Fourth Round, it is still seven
world-periods distant, each of several millions of years. But
in the meantime there will be a similar " creaming-off " on
a small scale in the course of each world-period and in the
Fifth Race. The Christ's hearers were already in that
Race, and He was simply urging them to exert themselves so
that they might, if possible, be ready to pass the test in a
future incarnation, and so to reach human perfection com-
paratively quickly. However, the greater part of mankind
cannot possibly be ready, and that through no fault of their
own, for large numbers were still in the animal kingdom
during the earlier races on this earth. Nor will they have to
endure any particular suffering. They will simply continue
their evolution in the earlier races on the next planet of our
" chain," the planet Mercury.
"Whose kingdom shall have no end."
This is taken almost verbally from document A which
says that the divine life in man will rise "in ever greater
glory to a kingdom without end." That kingdom will be
one over the lower self or personality, which when Master-
hood is reached will have been perfectly controlled and
purified. There will also be a kingdom in a more literal
sense, for he will be co-worker with the King, the Lord of
the World.
The last paragraph of the Creed is taken-with alterations
for the worse-from the third and fourth paragraphs of
docum,ent A. The latter does not say that the Holy Ghost
F 2.
A HELP TO WORSHIP
is" the Lord and giver oflife," but simply that He is the life-
giver-an appropri~te name, as it is matter instinct with His
life, and not yet built into forms by the Second Person,
which circulates in our bodies (much as the blood does in
arteries and veins), and gives them life.
"Who spake by the Prophets."
" The Prophets " is an expression used in the Gospels to
denote the writings of the Hebrew prophets, and here we
have a strange statement attributing those writings (more or
less corrupt as we have them) to the Holy Ghost in propria
persona.
Far other are the stately words of document A-" Who
manifesteth through His Angels." That statement is true
and instructive, if we take " Angels " in the original Greek
sense of Messenger. For the Holy Ghost does indeed
manifest through His Messengers-the seven mighty Spirits
Who proceed from Himselfeven as He does from the Father
and the Son. These are mentioned in Revelation iv. 5,
which says, "and there were seven lamps of fire burning
before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God."
The Third Person does not Himselfand directly manife.st
or create the globes of our solar system. That is the work
ofthe seven Who come forth or emanate from Him. Those
Great Beings-only less exalted than He from Whom They
proceed-are known in Theosophical literature as " Rulers
of Chains" of worlds, or "Planetary Logoi." The former
is perhaps the better name, as there is no risk of its confusing
them in the student's mind with the Logos of the whole
system ; but " Planetary Logoi " does convey the fact that
each of the seven creates and rules His own chain of worlds,
and thus plays for it the same part as the Logos for His
system.
These are the Heads of the seven great Rays or lines of
evolution, on one or other of which stands every individual
THE NICENE CREED 77
life in the system, no matter to what kingdom of nature-
human, sub-human or super-human-it may for the time
belong.
The seven Rays are equal, though different in their
qualities and lines of work ; and those qualities and powers
all come to them from and through the Holy Ghost, from
Whom the heads of the Rays proceed. " Thou in Thy
sevenfold gifts art known," says that great hymn known as
the " Veni Creator," which is recited or sung in all three
ordination services for the Christian ministry, those for
Bishop, Priest and Deacon.
There are seven " chains " of worlds in the solar system,
each consisting of seven globes, so that there are in all forty-
nine globes, though the great majority of these are of matter
higher or subtler than the physical, and are therefore invisible
to our eyes.
"And I believe one Catholick and Apostolick Church."
How completely all through have the framers of this
Creed missed the deeper and more important meaning ! In
this instance they have done more, for they have made the
faithful use words implying not only that they are to believe
their Churcli implicitly without venturing to exercise reason
or conscience, but also that the church to which the wor-
shipper belongs is the only true Catholic and Apostolic one
in existence.
The original document said : " We recognise one
brotherhood of holy men as leading to the Greater Brother-
hood above." This was true and instructive ; for there
were in the early Church an" ·Inner Court" and an" Outer
Court." In the former were Initiates and their pupils who
were preparing themselves for Initiation. These obeyed our
Lord's holy teaching, and were really a brotherhood of holy
men, leading to the Greater Brotherhood. The Outer
Court consisted of Church members who had not yet given
A HELP TO WORSHIP
up Resh eating and strong drink. This comes out clearly
in The Gospel of the Holy Twelve (Chapter XC., v. 8) for
the Christ was asked " if there come to us any that eat Resh
and drink strong drink, shall we receive them ? And Jesus
said unto·him, Let such abide in the outer court, till they
have cleansed themselves from these grosser evils ; for till
they perceive and repent of these, they are not fit to receive
the higher mysteries."
The members of our own church are not asked to accept
any belief without examination, and we neither claim for
ourselves nor attribute to any particular body of men the
exclusive title of the "one Catholic and Apostolic Church."
And yet there is a sense in which we can all heartily express
our belief in the existence of such a Church ; and that sense
is clearly expressed in the prayer in the Longer Form which
says : " We who are very members incorporate in the
mystical body of Thy Son, which is the blessed company of all
faithful people." The word Catholic, according to its
derivation, means simply universal, and the real Catholic
and Apostolic Church consists of all the people in the world,
to whatever religion they may belong, or even to none, who
are doing their best to lead a life oflove towards all creatures.
Such people are truly apostles, for an apostolos in Greek is
one sent forth (from apo, stello) to spread the Light, and
there is no surer way of doing that than trying to lead a holy
life. Of such the old Egyptians would have said : " Osiris
in them is calling to Osiris in their fellows " ; and the
Christian Scriptures say : "The path. of the just is as the
shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect
day" (Prov. iv. I 8).
" I acknowledge one Baptism for the remission of sins.
And I look for the Resurrection of the dead, And the life of
the world to come. Amen."
This is almost a travesty of the true and stately words of
j
THE NICENE CREED 79
document A : " We recognise . . . one initiation for
emancipation from the fetters of sin, and for escape from the
wheel of birth and death into eternal life." This is simple
and straightforward enough. "Fetters" is the technical
term in the mysteries for those weaknesses and defects in
human nature which will have to be gradually and com-
pletely cast off before we can attain to that true life of the
Spirit which is called eternal, because there is no possibility
of ever falling away from it. A full description of the
fetters, with their Eastern names and the stages at which
they must be overcome, is given in the chapter on " The
Path Proper " in Bishop Leadbeater's book " Invisible
Helpers."
To speak of baptism as remitting sins is misleading.
There is no such thing as remission of sins, if by that is
meant "forgiveness of sins "-letting us off the suffering
which inevitably follows every breach ofthe holy law oflove.
Nor does baptism enable us to sin no more, though it is
intended to be, and is, a help in our efforts to resist temptation.
In every soul returning to birth are the seeds both of good
and evil, and both will in course of time-blossom into activity
through the influence ofsurroundings ; but it is a great help
if the good can be brought into action first, and that is just
what baptism is intended to effect.
There is no mention in the original 9f any " Resurrection
of the dead." For those who know nothing of reincarna-
tion, the words can only suggest some imagined " rising
again " of dead bodies ; but we can take them as referring
to a resurrection not of .the body, but in a body, that is, re-
incarnation. Or we can take them in a spiritual sense as
referring to that resurrection from sin and death which takes
place at the fourth Initiation, and is symbolised in the Gospel
allegory as a bodily resurrection.
" The life of the world to come " is a poor substitute for
80 A HELP TO WORSHIP
the original wording-" eternal life." The former suggests
only the life after death, but if we mentally substitute "age"
for " world," we can take the expression as an assurance of
the soul's immortality.
We have now seen how the Creed, as it has come down to
us, was built up, and how far it is satisfactory. Great is the
force of tradition, and many would rather accept a thing to
which they are accustomed than try to understand or correct
it; but the time will surely come when the shortcomings of
this Creed will be so generally recognised that the Church
will decide to substitute for it the Creed which our Lord
gave to His disciples-document A, or a better version if one
can be made.
In the meantime, readers who agree with. the views
expressed in this chapter will have lost nothing by knowing
that the Creed can be understood in a far deeper sense than is
generally supposed ; and they can still join heartily in its
recitation by adopting mentally their own interpretation.
The following suggestions are offered as a possible help in
doing so.
At the words "one Lord Jesus Christ" to think of the
Second Person of the Trinity.
To take the words" was incarnate of the Holy Ghost and
the Virgin Mary, and was made man," as referring to the
passage of the divine life through the animal and human
kingdoms.
" Pontius Pilate " is, of course, " Pontos Piletos," or the
condensed sea-the astral plane.
"He suffered and was buried" may be taken to signify
the further descent of the life to the physical.plane, where to
our eyes it is, as it were, "dead and buried."
" He rose again according to the Scriptures, and ascended
into heaven, and si1'teth on the right hand of the Father."
For this our own liturgy provides the appropriate thought,
THE NICENE CREED 81
in the prayer after the consecration (Longer Form), namely,
"His mighty resurrection, and His triumphant ascension,"
meaning, apparently, the glorious resurrection of the divine
life in man at the fourth or Arhat Initiation, and its later
entry at the fifth Initiation into eternal life and the peace
which passes all understanding.
" And He shall come again with glory to judge both the
quick and the dead; Whose kingdom shall have no end."
This can be taken as referring to a later coming of our
Lord to decide which of the great human family can with
advantage continue to incarnate on this earth in the sixth
and seventh Races, and which had better incarnate instead in
the earlier races on Mercury.
" Who spake by the Prophets."
For this we can mentally substitute the words of docu-
ment A-" Who manifesteth through His Angels "-the
seven mighty Spirits that stand before the throne.
" One holy catholic and apostolic Church " means " the
blessed company of all faithful people."
" The one Baptism for the remission of sins " is the Way
of Initiation.
" The resu-
rrection of the dead " is our gradual awakening
to the true life of the Spirit as we strive towards Initiation,
or it can be taken as the mighty resurrection which we
celebrate yearly at Easter, and which awaits us at the Fourth
Initiation.
" The life of the world to come " is the life of the coming
age. The same substitution of " age " for " world " has to
be made in the familiar doxology if we would understand it,
for the world in which we live is certainly not "without
end." Every created thing has a beginning, a middle and
an end. A similar substitution has also to be made in the
ending ofa beautiful collect (from the Anglican prayer-book)
which occurs in our service of Vespers-" granting us in
A HELP TO WORSHIP
this world knowledge ofThy truth, and in the world to come
life everlasting." It is evident that we shall not attain to
life everlasting simply by "shuffiing off this mortal coil,"
though we may confidently hope to do so in the course of
the coming age.
THE END
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY THE WHITEFRlARS PRXSS1 LTD.1
LONDON AND TONBRlVGX,
APPRECIATIONS OF OTHER BOOKS BY E. FRANCIS UDNY
THE ORIGINAL CHRISTIANITY
Limp Cloth, 3s. Cloth, +s. Postage 3d.
THE LATER INCARNATIONS
OF FRANCIS BACON
Is. 6d. Postage 2d.
78, Lancaster Gate, W. 2.
"Mr. Udny has in an able manner given two very concise
works [The Later Incarnations of Francis Bacon and The
Original ChristianityJ to the thoughtful public. Their
reading will clear the veil from the eyes of many a reader-
his spiritual vision is remarkable.
The Later Incarnations of Francis Bacon reads like an
interesting novel, but with the added advantage that the sub-
ject matter is true. It is a fascinating thought that by the
trained seer the whole of one's previous incarnations can be
read and recorded in history."-Ben Bayliss.
"Under the powerful impression of your book [The
Original Christianity] ... .I feel it my duty to tell you that
I owe you one of the greatest experiences of my life. There
are no words to express the joy I felt when reading your
revelations. Your book shows an admirable knowledge and
sureness. It is a mighty new wave of occult wisdom, and it
is one of the signs of His coming that such a wisdom can be
83 [See o,,er.]
APPRECIATIONS OF OTHER BOOKS BY E. FRANCIS UDNY
EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS-continued
given now to mankind."-Walter Klein (Dr.), //ice-Presi-
dent ofthe Austrian Section ofthe Theosophical Society.
Dr. Klein has since been kindly instrumental in procuring
a German version of this book, Das Urchristentum, published
in 1925 by the Stero _
im Osten-Verlag, i}ndr. Piehl, Wien
VI.
A French version appeared in 1926 : Le Christianisme
Primitif, Editions Adyar, 4, Square Rapp, Paris, VIIe, 1926.
A Dutch version, published by the Theosophische
Vereeniging Uitgevers-Mij will appear shortly.
SOME PRESS COMMENTS
" A rare type of book [The Original Christianity], well and
clearly written, logical, coherent, and stimulative of thought."
-James Scott in The Theosophical Review, March, 1925.
"[The Original Christianity] may be heartily recommended
to those who are striving to gain a fuller comprehension of
the marvellous teaching given. by that Divine Figure for
whose coming ... so many are eagerly looking."-E. M.
Whyte in The Herald ofthe Star, April, 1925.
"Mr. Udny has done good service to the humanitarian
cause in writing it [The Original Christianity]."-S. Hop-
good Hart in The /7egetarian News, March, I 925.
The above books are obtainable from
the Theosophical Bookshop,
43, Great Portland Street,
London, W. I.
~:S(~~~~)Q!~~~~~~~~
~ READERS OF THIS BOOK WILL B.E INTERESTED ~
~ IN THE FOLLOWING: ~
~ THE lvfASTERS AND THE PATH. By c. w. LEADBEATER. ~
~
8s. 6d. net. ~
THE SCIENCE OF THE SACRAMENTS. By C. W. LEADBEATER. ~
Fully illustrated. 12s. 6d. ret. ~
~ THE HIDDEN LIFE IN FREEMASONRY. By C. W. LEAD- ~
~ BEATER. Foreword by DR. ANNIE BESANT. 4 illustrations in colour
~
~ and numerous diagrams. I 5s. net. ~
~ AT THE FEET OF THE MASTER. By ]. KRISHNAMURTI.
Paper Edition IS. net; Imitation Leather 3s. net; Lambskin 4s. 6d.
net. Large Paper Edition with 5 illustrations in colour by HAMZEH
~ CARR. 7s. 6d. net. ~
~ AWAKEN CHILDREN OF THE LIGHT. By the Authors of ~
~ "Tho Spfrit of tho Unborn.'' "· 6d. nct. ~
~ THE SPIRIT OF THE UNBORN. By Two WORKERS. New ~
~ ~;:nB::;~~:::o:L;EN::;~L:o=~~ :F6d~: By ~
~ GEOFFREY HonsoN. Fo"wotd by DR. ANNIB BESANT. Fmntispioco ~
~ :::~~..·~:d~~o: A ARUNDALE. Forewotd by tho 1lt. Rov. ~
~ =p ~:~:D;;;,,:::~~:<C:d~~:. 6:::~TER ~
~ Frontispiece, 3 diagrams, and 22 coloured illustrations. 12s. 6d. net. ~
~ THE ASTRAL PLANE. By C. W. LEADBEATER. Cloth 1s. 6d. ~
~ net.; paper IS. net.
~ Apply for catalogtlB and current !iJts Jo the
~:d~~ Theosophical Publishing Hottre LJ111ited ~
38 Great Ormond Street London
W.C.1
~ ~
~~~~~~~~lR{lR{~~~~
