{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__anonymous___infinite_power_of_compensation_luck.pdf","mytitle":"Infinite Power Of Compensation Luck","mylang":"de"}
Do You Believe in “ Luck”?
The
Infinite Power
of
Compensation
A ROSICRUCIAN
EXPOSITION
Public Inquiry Leaflet No. 6
THE INFINITE POWER
OF COMPENSATION
Karma, or the Law of
Compensation
HE WORD “ Karma" seems to carry with
it the impression that it is the name of
some Oriental doctrine or mystic prin­
ciple that is hard to understand and diffi­
cult to adopt consistently with our Ameri­
can ideals and religious beliefs. Why this
view-point should be held by so many
intelligent persons is difficult to analyze and we will
not take unnecessary time to even speak of the un­
reasonableness of such a strange interpretation.
First of all, let us say that the term “ Karma" has
been adopted by the Rosicrucians and by many others,
simply because it is one of the shortest and most easily
remembered names given to the great law by some of
the Oriental schools. We have other Oriental words
in our English language, such as psychology, which do
not nowadays cause any suspicion in the minds of
persons regarding its Occidental or Western World
application, and there is no reason for anyone to feel
that Karma represents a word that fits only the Oriental
mind or nature. One of the greatest writers of essays
called this same doctrine “The Law of Compensation,"
which is a more descriptive term but a longer one,
and we, of the Western World, like brevity and con­
ciseness.
The law of compensation is as much a fundamental
law of nature, irrespective of religion or ethics, as is
the law of breathing, eating, resting, working, and
sleeping. The law of compensation is not even wholly
a law that deals with the activities of the soul or the
mind. It has as much to do with material, mun­
dane affairs of the physical body and of the social
and business world, as has the laws of health. And
you can just as successfully negate, belittle, decry, and
unobserve the laws of Karma as you can the laws of
health. In both cases the law continues to operate,
regardless of your opinion or your attitude, and in
both cases, the penalties will manifest themselves despite
your belief that you are superior to doctrines of any
kind.
Fundamentally, the law of compensation may be
expressed in that old proverb that, "A s you sow, so
shall you reap." It naturally does away with the idea
of fate, chance, predestination, and satanic temptation.
If there ever was a devil with horns and far-reaching
tail, it is the spirit in man that makes him believe that
he can think and act independently of any effect
resulting through the law of compensation.
That nice-horned, fiery, glib-tungued, smooth fellow
of the regions below is a weak-minded infant in com­
parison to the superiority complex that resides in so
many human beings and which tempts them to defy
the laws of Karma.
All sowing for any harvest is not always done by
the planting of material seeds in material soil. In fact,
[ 4 ]
there is nothing so potent as a mental seed that gets
firmly lodged in a fertile consciousness or virgin mind.
The largest and most costly crop is not always one that
results from broadcasting seeds indiscriminately or pro­
fusely. Sometimes only a few seeds deliberately planted
according to carefully considered plans and aided by
the encouragement of some well-selected fertilizer will
produce for the grower all that he can take care of,
and sometimes more than he can take care of. The
same is true of our mental and physical seeds which
we sow in life.
As You Create, So You Shall Have
We all know that many things grow in the soil of
the earth through the blowing of seeds by the wind,
or the dropping of the seeds by birds that carry them
in their flights. All seeds that produce vegetation are
not seeds that are wilfully and deliberately planted
through human scheming. The same is true of the
seeds of Karma. Most of them we deliberately plant
and fertilize and carefully exhilarate until they are mar­
velous products, overpowering us with their majesty
and enslaving us by their greatness. But many of these
seeds are dropped by us on the wayside, unwittingly
and unknowingly. Nevertheless, the law of Karma is
steadfast, dependable, fair, and just; and in all cases,
we reap what we sow. It does make some difference,
however, whether we deliberately sow or unwittingly
sow. Every farmer and agriculturist will tell you that
that is true of the sowing of any kind of seeds, and
every student of Cosmic law will tell you that it is a
demonstrable fact. The law of compensation takes
into consideration the motive back of our sowing, as
it takes into consideration the motive back of all of
t n
our actions. A good seed sown in a adfish spirit is not
nearly so productive in its Cosmic compensation for
us as a good seed sown spontaneously, deliberately, and
unselfishly. An evil seed sown unwittingly does not
produce the same result as one sown knowingly and
wilfully. There are wild oats produced by nature from
seeds not planted with human conscious knowledge.
They are never as profuse or as prolific in compensation
as the oats resulting from seeds consciously and de­
liberately sown. Yet the law is the law, and where
oat seeds are sown, oats will grow.
The law of compensation says to man, as you create,
so you shall have. As you think, so you will materi­
alize. As you build, so will you have to contend with.
As you do, so will you come face to face with your
doing. As you think, so you will set into motion.
Through its manifestations, the law of Karma proves
that if man creates, causes, or instigates sorrow or
suffering, whether for himself or for others, so he
shall have to endure suffering and sorrow. If he creates
or produces happiness, joy, and goodness, he will find
these things affecting his life. If he disturbs the har­
mony of the universe, as it affects each individual
being, each group of beings, each nation, each country,
he will find the disturbance, in return, affecting him.
The law of compensation is simply, then, the reaction
of action. It is impersonal, it is no respecter of persons,
time, or place. The law is immutable and it is not the
arbitrary decision or action of a Divine Being now
carefully watching each of our acts, but a law which
the God of creation established when he created all
laws and which carries on with its Cosmic power and
might, regardless of time and regardless of any super­
vision hv an Infinite Mind.
[ 6 ]
Law of Karma Always Just
It is remarkable, however, how many persons believe
that the law of compensation is so unfair, so unjust,
so unreasonable in its operation that it follows man's
imitation of the law. Man, in attempting to imitate
the law of compensation, has made laws of his own,
which demand an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a
tooth. Judging the law of compensation by comparison
with man's law, the law of compensation would be
unjust and unfair. Moreover, it would fail in its real
purpose. The purpose of the law of compensation is
not to punish but to teach; not to destroy but to create;
not to tear down but to build up. As I have said
above, it takes into consideration the motive back of
the act. Man's law says a life for a life. The law
of compensation says that the taking of a life for a
life means the destroying of a second life because the
first one was destroyed; therefore, further destruction
is accomplished and nothing of a constructive nature
is accomplished. The law of compensation says that
if a life was taken in order to make someone suffer
that suffering should be experienced by the one who
caused the loss of life in order that he may know the
value of life and bitterness of sorrow. The law of
compensation says that if a wrong is done another,
no good is accomplished by having the same wrong
come to the wrongdoer, but rather some form of
suffering that will reveal a lesson rather than contain
mere agony. If good oats that came from the seeds
where wild oats grow were as good as the best, man
would never have learned how to properly plant and
sow for better crops.
t ? }
Cosmic Lessons
Since the law of compensation asks always to teach
us a lesson and to save us from making the same error
twice, it brings back to us a reaction from our actions
in such circumstances and under such conditions as
will most readily impress the lessons upon us and
tempt us to change our ways. On the other hand,
the blessings that come from our good acts through
the law of Karma are of such a nature and reward us
at such a time or place as make quite evident to us
the Cosmic approval of what we have done in the
past and its willingness to compensate us in a more
abundant and useful manner. A small token of little
value given spontaneously, unselfishly, and in the proper
Epirit, will not be rewarded by the return of a similar
token at a time when such a token would be of little
value, but by the return of a larger or different gift
at a time when the thing given would be the most
useful and beneficial. Therefore, the law of compen­
sation sometimes waits for the crucial or critical or
most timely period of our lives, when its action would
be the most impressive, and always the most instructive.
It may cause us to suffer long, perhaps for years or a
lifetime, for a simple act that we performed in a few
minutes. What we did may not have consumed much
time in the doing, but may have caused a lifetime of
suffering for someone else, and the reaction is suffering
for us, until we learn the lessons and realize what our
little act created.
It is a notable fact, also, that as rapidly as we learn
the lessons of Karma, our compensation is adjusted
and the rewards or reactions are brought to an end.
[ 8 ]
I have seen many, who have been suffering for years
under the reaction of a Karmic debt, but who refused
to acknowledge the lesson or learn the principle. Once
the confession was made, and in humbleness, the law
was acknowledged, the Karmic debt was brought to
an end.
We sec, therefore, that man's redemption lies not in
the simple confession of his sins or acknowledgment
of his errors, but in his learning of the lesson and his
paying tribute to the superiority of the great law. Once
he humbly obeys the law, pays homage to it as his
guide and director in worldly affairs, and cooperates
with the law in sowing only those seeds which will
produce good things in harmony with the natural laws
of the universe, he will find his life starting over again
with every advantage, every Cosmic blessing, every
godly gift at his disposal. Man reaps his Karmic
reward for earthly acts here on earth, where he may
associate them with the products of the seeds he has
sown, and avail himself of the earthly lessons which
he must learn before he can be free from Karmic debt.
It is the law of laws and, deny it as w
>e may, it con­
tinues to operate and will have its way to the end of
our lives.
The Key to the Mysteries
There is a key, a principle to understand. There
are details that we must read and comprehend if we
would get the utmost out of the great doctrine of
Karma, the law of compensation. This is offered to
you by a branch of the ancient schools now operating
m America as one of the oldest educational movements
[ 9 ]
of arcane knowledge, established on the American
shores in 1694, and enjoying the high regard of thou­
sands of Americans, leading thinkers, and most pro­
gressive, happy, successful men and women. This organ­
ization is known as the Rosicrucian Brotherhood with
jurisdiction in both North and South America. Its
complete name is the "A ncient and Mystical Order
R o s a e C r u c i s ,” abbreviated into the initials AMORC.
Most of its membership is located throughout the North
American continent, from the colds of the icy north, to
the equator, with branches, classes, public lectures,
reading rooms, and every means and facility for the
dissemination of the most interesting, profitable, and
alluring knowledge available to men and women. It
sells no teachings. It is not a commercial organization,
nor a religious sect; not a scientific school of profound
theories. It is a fraternity, a brotherhood, in the truest
sense, extending its cordial hand of friendly greeting to
every man and woman who seeks to rise above his plane
in life and become masterfully successful and supremely
happy and at peace.
Free, Instructive Literature
If you wish to know more about the Rosicrucian
teachings as being disseminated in all parts of the civil­
ised world, and especially in North America through
the hundreds of branches, just address a letter to the
National Headquarters and very interesting literature
will be mailed to you without obligation.
Regardless of your present opinions, religious beliefs,
or station in life, you will find the Rosicrucian teachings
of practical value, free from speculative theories, un­
biased in sectarianism, and distinctly different from
C10]
any philosophy or system of thought you may have
contacted.
Address your letter for the FREE and interesting
book, “ The Secret Heritage," to:
R o s i c r u c ia n I n f o r m a t i o n L ib r a r y
Rosicrucian Park
SAN JOSE. CALIFORNIA
NOTE—There is but one international Rosicrucian
Order operating throughout the world. Its complete
name is “Ancient, Mystical Order Rosae Crccis,"
(abbreviated into one word by the initials, AMORC).
[ H ]
