{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1928__bart___the_heavens_proclaim.pdf","mytitle":"The Heavens Proclaim","mylang":"de"}
THE HEAVENS
PROCLAIM
BEING AN ANALYSIS AND
EXPLANATION OF THE
NEW ASTROLOGY
BY
BELLE BART
PRINTED BY
THE ROYCROFTERS
EAST AURORA, N. Y.
1928
COPYRIGHT 1928,
BY
BELLE BART
DEDICATORY
In memory of my dear ones
who
through that door
of darkness
passed
CONTENTS
PAGE
PREFACE 9
INTRODUCTION 17
CHAPTER I Historical Sketch and Summary 27
CHAPTER II The New Astrology 37
CHAPTER III Some Recent Developments in The New
Astrology 47
CHAPTER IV Personal Experience in Astrology 73
BIBLIOGRAPHY 103
CHAPTER V Your Future - Giving Your Planetary
Conditions Up to the Year 1933 II9
Containing some references to the Classics and a table of
Dates.
REVOLUTION OF AMERICA
- PREFACE
~mm~~N presenting this treatise on the
subject of the New Astrology, I
have aimed primarily at an exposi-
tion of its most useful phases. I want
~~~A you, my reader, to realize wherein
---=~"3..:=:oo...;;:~ it can be most useful and helpful .to
you. As an applied science its scope is practically
limitless. This is proven by the results attained. It
renders invaluable service in vocational guidance,
affording means for avoiding years, possibly a
lifetime, of misspent energy and effort. It provides
a basis for medical diagnosis, thus indicating the
means for attaining perfect health, and happiness in
life itself. It reveals a knowledge of the affairs of
life, -personal, business, domestic and financial,
thus affording direction for making the most of life
and its obligations.
Unlike other philosophers who say, " Do as I say,
but not as I do,'' I make use of my science in my
everyday existence and it has been a protection for
me. The majority of people are not getting the
proper reaction out of life. When one takes to
assorted phases of dissipation or unworthy activi-
ties, it simply means that he is not functioning at
his best. This is particularly true of the so-called
IO THE"'HEAVENS PROCLAIM
social world, which is suffering merely from bore-
dom. These individuals are not functioning at their
best. Mere leisure, that is to say, intellect-granting
that they have it-unoccupied, is not of itself
sufficient. Of course the other side-illiterate leisure
-is a form of death, in verity a living doom!
An active life for the mind is not only a protection
against boredom, but also wards off the pernicious
effects of that state. It keeps you from improper
associations, from the many dangers, misfortunes,
losses and extravagances which the man who places
his happiness entirely in the objective world is sure
to encounter. Astrology reveals your aptitudes,
temperament and character, affording a knowledge
of just the channel in which you might successfully
develop your mind so as to overcome the vicissi-
tudes of your life. It also affords a knowledge of
your compatibility with others and is of untold
value where the opposite sex is concerned and where
your heart's interest is involved. H you are an
ordinary man you place your life's happiness in
things external to you-in property, perhaps rank,
friends, society, and even, CI might say this philo-
sophically,) wife and children, so that when you
lose them or find them disappointing, the founda-
tion of your happiness is destroyed. In other words,
you are not self-sufficient. The center of gravity is
not in yourself. It is constantly changing its place
with every wish and every whim of those whom
you have idealized, and who, because they are
human, are bound to fail you at some stage of the
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM II
game, called LIFE. H you would proportion your
feelings and cultivate your mind and work at that
for which your natural and God-given abilities have
fitted you, you would be Iiving in a world of har-
mony - something like Utopia, if we may use that
word in connection with this modern generation.
(On the other hand, if you are a man of means,
one day it will be your house in the country, an-
other, buying horses or entertaining friends or
traveling-a life, in short, of general luxury. Here
you find yourself seeking your pleasure in things
outside yourself. Like one whose health and
strength are gone you try to regain it, perhaps by
the use of jellies and drugs, for after all over-
eating, over-drinking, over-anything, is merely a
drug that deadens the sensibility of some other
function, instead of developing vital power.
Astrology affects the inner nature and man as a
whole. It is an obvious fact which can not be called
in question that the principle element in man's well-
being, indeed in the whole tenor of his existence,
is what he is made of, his inner constitution; for
this is the immediate source of that inward satis-
faction or dissatisfaction resulting from the sum
total of his sensations, desires and thoughts, while
his surroundings, on the other hand, exert only an
immediate or indirect influence upon him. This is
why the same external events or circumstances
affect no two people alike. Even with perfectly
similar surrounaings, each one lives in a world of
his own because the planets at birth endowed each
12. THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
individual with certain and definite characteristics,
and the same environment can not give individuals
a similar expression of themselves.
The New Astrology is a veritable boon to humanity
in indicating the proper direction in whi'ch to
function, as from the instant of birth a human
being is susceptible to, and is actually the recipient
of, a multitude of influences and forces emanating
and resulting from environment; which have an
effect upon him, according to the nature with
which he is endowed. Imagine a man endowed with
Herculean strength who is compelled by circum-
stances or environment to follow a sedentary
occupation - some minute, exquisite work of the
hands for example,- or to engage in study and
mental labor demanding quite other powers than
just those which he possesses: compelled to leave
unused the powers in which he is pre-eminently
strong. A man placed like this will never feel
happy all his life through and can not be success-
ful. Even more miserable will be the lot of the man
with intellectual powers of a very high order who
has to leave them undeveloped and unemployed
in the pursuit of a calling which does not require
them-some bodily labor perhaps for which his
strength is insufficient. Goethe describes how an
unalterable destiny is assigned to every man at the
hour of his birth, so that he can develop only in
the lines laid down for him as it were by the con-
junction of the stars; and how the prophets declare
that hence man can never escape, nor any power
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
avail to change the path on which his life is cast.
This statement while true in the main is too bind-
ing, too limiting. The Stars incline but do not
compel. Man masters his own destiny.
So you see the great necessity of knowing exactly
how you should function during life and the proper
time to carry on. Modern astrologers believe that
all activity, all life, is a matter of education, plus
the knowledge as given through the science ofAstro-
logy. Through it, all this information is yours-
mathematically made known to you. It is indeed a
wonderful and marvelous age, this one in which
we are living. You can think for just one moment,
which is only a short time, whether you are receiv-
ing the proper reaction out of life; and if you are
truly happy, and if not can you answer why? This
mental analysis will do much to start you on the
road to success. You owe it to yourself to know
yourself, your possibilities and limitations, and
you owe it to man and humanity at large to be thus
cognizant of your capabilities.
The following terse examples of the '' working ''
or practical side of this great science will afford
ample proof of the statements which I have made.
They cover a wide field of interest and I am sure
they will prove convincingly the need of astrology
in every-day life.
Given over the Radio-Station W. 0. R., New York-
y our letter interests me so much because of its very
human touch that I want to read it and as I have not
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
given your name but merely your initials I feel sure
that you will not object. I am going to read both
your letter and my answer to you, as I feel it will
fill the need of many of the invisible listeners. I
shall, however, omit the year of your birth, so
you are perfectly safe as to your identity remaining
unknown s.s.
"Dear Miss Bart:-I have heard you talk over the
radio several times and understood you to say that
you would answer a serious question and give some
data in regard to those who may wish to avail
themselves of this privilege. I was born June 18,
and have been engaged to a man whose initials are
R. L., and who was born March 17, l89i. Recently,
about three weeks ago, we had a misunderstanding,
which at the time seemed very serious, and I have
not seen him since. Is there anything in our temper-
ament or character which would make us incom-
patible, or that·would make it inadvisable for us
to marry? As I now feel, I would do anything to
straighten matters out, but would certainly appre-
ciate your advice before doing anything. I dislike
to admit it, but I am certainly despondent over the
situation. Sincerely,
M. T. S."
·· If the misunderstanding to which you refer
actually occurred three weeks ago I believe I can
tell you through the science of Astrology its signi-
ficance in your life. The difficulty was very likely
due to a discussion about religion, since Mars was
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
in unfriendly aspect to Jupiter in the sign Sagit-
tarius, governing the religious question. Your
friend, R. L. is inclined to be just a little bit intol-
erant in matters of this kind. It was quite apparent
that one word may have led to another, tending to
leave you both very unhappy and dissatisfied with
the other's attitude. This situation came about
because of certain planetary conditions at the time
of the discussion. You should both agree to avoid
lengthy discourse on religious subjects for the
present, I would say-for the balance of this year.
There is a combination of conflicting influences in
your horoscopes, and Mars, the planet causing
irritability is enjoying full reign. I believe you will
both get along admirably together as there is no
other incompatibility that would make you un-
suited for each other from the marital standpoint.
There is no reason why you should not do so. You
will both put your pride in your pocket and thus
solve your situation.''
I later learned that these two individuals were
united in marriage and, since I gave them each a
detailed manuscript of their characteristics and
the matters of discussion to be avoided, I presume
they will be happy and enjoy a successful career
together.
- INTRODUCTION
~~~·N this book I present a series of dis-
courses showing what Astrology is,
its purpose, its history, its scien-
tific foundation and its field of
usefulness in every-day life. It is the
~~~~"""'°field of useful application that will
undoubtedly most interest the majority of you, and,
for that reason, it might be well to start with this
phase of mysubject. WhileAstrologyin its origin was
much a part and parcel of the theology of religious
belief which was prevalent during its earlier his-
tory, today it has very little to do with religion
other than to show the imperative necessity for
religion in some form; and that all life, all peoples
have a basic relationship, and come under the
influence of the heavenly bodies, in degree or kind.
While some of you may question its relationship
to human activities and destinies, nevertheless
many people who may be classed as skeptics un-
consciously regulate their lives on a basis dependent
upon a direct relation between life in this world
and the stellar activities. Many farmers rely im-
plicitly upon the influence of the Moon and its
position, in planting their crops. Scientists assert
18 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
without fear of contradiction the relationship
between tides and the heavenly bodies. Financial
economists have even gone so far as to show the
relationship between financial conditions and the
aspects of the planet Venus. This might seem
incredible to the less informed; but nevertheless
Professor Moore of Columbia University, who
needs no apology or defense on my part, has written
a very significant book entitled, '' Generating
Economic Cycles," in which he refers to this
relationship. There are scientists today who can
show the relationship between war and strife on
this earth, and the various activities of the Sun,
such as Sun-spots, eruptions, etc. A list of facts
which are already accepted by the unbelieving and
the skeptic could be multiplied to greater length.
The examples which I have given are sufficient to
establish the point that the planetary bodies are
admittedly of effect in their reaction upon waves,
tides, crops and have a physiological effect upon
the human being. Therefore, any claim as to the
effect of the planetary influences on mind, action
and the destinies of mankind, are well worthy of
investigation. The verity of these statements con-
cerning the influence of the stars on human destiny
can be proved experimentally, and, as we under-
stand science today, scientifically. Life and matter,
·the scientists tell us today, are but manifestations
of energy; and energy it appears, exists by virtue
of vibrations in that very little understood medium
called ether. Here we have the basis of the influence
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
of the stellar bodies upon the life and destiny of an
individual .9e. .9e.
The New Astrology is scientific in its basis and also
scientific in its co-ordination and correlation of
facts. These facts permit the making of deductions
and predictions. In other words, Astrology is sus-
ceptible of as positive and scientific a demonstra-
tion as anything else that science attempts to prove
or elucidate. The position of the stars at the time
of your birth reveals your aptitudes, character-
istics, and latent abilities in all influences tending to
bear upon your destiny. Today we are not as help-
less as those who lived in the early days of this
science. In the early centuries, a man born with
tendencies pointing to an unfortunate existence
did not have as free an opportunity for overcoming
the influences actuating these tendencies as he
would have today. The stars incline but they do
not compel. The accumulated knowledge of today-
our cultural inheritance-in fact, everything which
tends to make life more bearable on this earth is
at the disposal of the individual who is seeking
light upon his pathway in life. The guidance gained
through a knowledge of the effect of the planetary
influences prevailing at your birth can be utilized
for your betterment. Forewarned is forearmed. Our
environment only bears us down when we permit
it to do so. Knowledge of an impending disaster
can be used to avoid that disaster. Vocational guid-
ance is at the command of him who seeks it. The
stars reveal clearly and with unassailable accuracy
2.0 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
the knowledge of one's particular fitness and the
best method of procedure as well as the most
propitious times for activity in order to achieve
the greatest possible success in life. To function
adequately, efficiently and happily: to enjoy the
fruits of this earth, to live harmoniously you must
express intelligently, unhampered, unrestrained,
untrammeled. This, and this alone means happiness
and contentment to every one, in his career through
life s.. s..
Astrology is usually regarded as a science so deep
and so difficult that only the learned can ever hope
to master it; but I will make it comprehensible to
the reader of this volume and will show how vitally
important it is to the needs of your every-day life.
In doing so I shall exercise great care not to allow
my conception of the sublimity and grandeur of
the subject to obscure my vision; but shall view
it from the standpoint of the reader who seeks
information in this field of knowledge and enlight-
enment for the first time. I also wish to make clear
how a knowledge of the stars will eliminate much
of the toil and guesswork usually encountered in
the struggle to reach your goal.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 2.I
Astrology, the oldest of all sciences, can be traced
so far into the past, (as we shall see in the historical
development appearing later in the book,) that it
becomes a task actually to discover when and
where it had its origin. It is neither prevision nor
prophecy. It is a mathematically correct science.
It is the beginning of nearly all that we hold valua-
able in art, literature, religion and science; and
has survived through the ages, to become the hope
and the inspiration of the modern world. While in
reality the profoundest of all studies, it is based
2.2. THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
upon simplicity. " But," you may ask, " How can
the planets affect me and the every-day happenings
of my life?'' Let me further elucidate.
The influence of the stars and planets acts upon the
physical and the spiritual in all phases in life!
There are twelve zodiacal signs, each governing
the space of a month on our calendar. There are
also nine planets governing· these signs. The con-
stellations or zodiacal signs are divided into four
groups resembling in nature the four elements,
water, earth, air and fire. Each of these zodiacal
signs, while ruling individuals born under them;
also rules countries that come within the latitude
and longitude of these zodiacal signs. The date
of the signing of the charter of a country establishes
the birth of that -
nation and is astrologically used
as the country's date of birth. Nations are born
and die, just as individuals. The World War was a
shining example of this statement.
Space that is inter-planetary, inter-material, inter-
organic, is not a vacuum. It is filled with a subtle
fluid, that is, a force called ether or solar fire. This
fluid, unchangeable in composition, indestructible,
invisible, pervades everything; and all ponderable
matter is charged with it. Man is charged with the
vibrations according to the position of the planet-
ary bodies at his birth, ana these vibrations are
carried through the ether to man. The rays of a
planet directly over head are bound to be more
forcefully felt upon an individual born on one day
than if that planet were ninety or one hundred and
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 2.)
twenty degrees away from the individual or locality
of birth .9e. .9e.
The planets are continually in motion, and as they
move away from their position held at birth, their
vibrations to that object or human being born
under them change accordingly, producing greater
motion or less vibration. Without these vibrations
there could not be any motion, nor any impulse to
excite particles into action. The ether connects
the sun with the planet, planet with planet, man
with planet, and man with man. Without these
planetary vibrations there could be no communica-
tion in the universe, no light, no heat, no phe-
nomena of motion, proving conclusively and scien-
tifically that the planetary bodies affect man: that
their influences cause the changes constantly taking
place in his life and experience.
Through the Science of Astrology man may know
in advance how his stars incline for him, just as
the astronomer can tell the weather conditions in
advance through a knowledge of the planetary
bodies. Astrology reveals just what your life work
should be: the things you can do best and the
obstacles you may have to face. It proves that there
is a definite scientific reason back of all the happen-
ings of life. A knowledge of Astrology provides us
with a tremendous conquering force by familiar-
izing us with our strength and our weakness and
by showing us the most opportune time for carrying
out our plans. As our comprehension of the science
increases, we are filled with a new understanding,
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
both for ourselves and those with whom we come
into contact; because it furnishes a scientific reason
for traits of character otherwise incomprehensible.
We are given not only the power to analyze charac-
ter, but we are taught how to correct our faults,
and how to find a remedy for adverse conditions.
We learn there is a right and wrong time for every-
thing. You may utilize propitious planetary con-
ditions to your own profit by furthering the affairs
which they effect. For example, you may have a
project in view and attempt to bring it to a suc-
cessful culmination on a certain day. You do all
you can, and to you there appears to be nothing
wrong with your arrangements, but your plans
fail utterly! On another day, with the same pro-
ject, the same people, and practically the same
circumstances, you proceed with your plans and they
terminate successfully. Had you known the in-
fluences you were under when you first attempted
the project, you could have prevented much
trouble, and perhaps heartache and disappointment.
The stars incline, but do not compel. Let me make
that clear and emphatic! Man is a free agent men-
tally and morally, having the power of acceptance
or non-acceptance according to his power of per-
ception in his development. The individual who
knows his natural aptitudes and his abilities does
not waste years trying to accomplish that which
is beyond his station or position in life. He who
knows himself has marked a goal and knows the
shortest way to that goal. {Thus I make clear the
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
position of Astrology and its great influence upon
mankind throughout the Ages. It is just as potent
for the man of today as in the time of the ·· Seers. ''
Let us therefore study the stars and their position
at our birth so that we may live according to the
best of our ability; and may we be properly guided
so that we shall not have lived in vain!
- CHAPTER I
HISTORICAL SKETCH
& SUMMARY
~~~HE root of Astrology lies in the study
of the stars ; their manifestations and
their relation to the kindred study
Astronomy, which has to do with
their position and relationship in
~~::!'.i~~ the heavens. The ancient could very
well sing ·· The heavens declare the glory of God
and the firmament showeth His handiwork! '' The
ancient as he lay on the roof of his house gazing
at the blue canopy overhead was amazed and awed
at the beauty of the celestial bodies: blindly wor-
shipping their then indefinable influence-which
made the appeal to him that we feel today in a
much different and a more understandable manner.
Astrology a;s a science has always been the means
of foretelling future events by the study of the
position of the stars, and it has always pointed out
the relation of these " heavenly influences " upon
human destiny. Natural Astrology is the means
for predicting changes in the weather; while
judicial Astrology foretells events bearing on the
28 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
destiny of individuals-human beings-or on the
race in general. ·
The Chinese, the Egyptians, and the Chaldeans,
together with the Romans, and most all of the
ancient nations, were followers of the science of
Astrology. Literature and history are laden with
references to what has often been called the'' Divine
Science.'' Later the Jews, the Arabs, and other
Mohammedan races; also the Christians in Medi-
eval Europe, took up Astrology and cultivated the
study of it. '' When the Jews were carried away
into Babylon, Daniel is said to have been one of
the prisoners, and to have risen to a very high
situation at the court of the great king; in fact
to have become almost his prime minister. (Dan.
ii. 48.) On the taking of the city, he appears
to have been a principal performer. He was occupied
in explaining the meaning of the mystical writing
on the wall at the very moment that the city was
stormed. After the success of the Persians, we find
him again in great power with the new king, who
was of his own sect of religion; and as bitter against
the idolaters as himself. ...I suspect that Daniel
was a Chaldee or Culdee or Bramin priest,-a
priest of the same order of which, in former times,
Melchizedek had been a priest.'' The twelve signs
of the Zodiac were symbols for the standards of
the twelve tribes of Israel: The Scorpion, the
typhon, the devil or emblem of destruction, being
changed for the eagle by the tribe of Dan, to whom
it was allotted. The Ark, an exact copy of the
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
ark of Osiris, set afloat in the Nile every year,
supposed to sail to Biblos, in Palestine. The pillars
of Joacin and Boaz; the festival of the Passover at
the vernal equinox, an exact copy of the Egyptian
festival; and almost all the ornaments of the
temple, altar, priests, etc., were astrological.
The ordinary method of procedure in divination
in the Middle Ages was to divide a globe or plani-
sphere into twelve portions, by circles that ran
from pole to pole, like those that now mark meri-
dians of longitude. Each of the twelve spaces or in-
tervals between these circles was called a '' house ''
or mansion of heaven. The Sun, Moon and stars all
pass once in twenty-four hours through that por-
tion of the heavens represented by the twelve
" houses. " Nowhere, however, except at the
equator are the same stars uniformly together in
the same house. Every house has one of the twelve
zodiacal signs ruling over it as its Lord.
The houses symbolize the various attributes of
life. The first is the house of life; the second, of
riches; the third, of brethren; the fourth, of parents
and the home; the fifth, of children and public
success; the sixth, of health and employees; the
seventh, of marriage and business partnerships; the
eighth, of death, also signifying the personal condi-
tion at the end of life; the ninth, of religion, per-
sonal beliefs and foreign travels; the tenth, the
profession and its personal dignities; the eleventh,
of friends; and the twelfth, of enemies, and confine-
ments. The houses vary in strength-the first one,
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
that containing the part of the heavens about to
rise, being the most powerful of all. It ~s called the
ascendant, while the point of the ecliptic just rising
is termed the horoscope. The important matter
connected with this early development in the study
of Astrology was the ascertaining of the house and
star in the ascendant at the moment of a person's
birth, from which his astrological control was
deduced and the degree of success possible in his
life predicted.
The attempt to reach a solution of life through
Astrology was very much as the attempt to reach
the truth in the Church of politics. Still Astrology,
this marvel of sciences, has progressed and advanc-
ed and can take its place along with other great
developments as having come through the fire and
acid test of the centuries, as tried and true and
found lacking in no degree. Thus we emerge upon
the horizon of our modern era, with the dawn of
a better understanding and Astrology is ready to
bear a great message to all mankind who will but
listen, and heed the call. It is to all men every-
where-the universal plea. She sets the challenge
to all. May we who have eyes to see and ears to
hear not be found lacking in appreciation and
perception!
With regard to the practical and working side of
my science I have but to present the following
pages of '· proof,'' which need no explanation.
They are examples of hundreds of such questions
that I am called upon to decipher and answer every
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 31
day. My daily mail is full of such pleas from all
over the world. Surely the fact that so many are
interested, in different walks of life, proves that
there is this very day need for, such help-
that all men may have their burdens lightened
and the perlexities of life lessened through scienti-
fic knowledge indicating the proper method for
procedure in their daily activities. There is in the
stars help for everyone. You must not feel that today
with all of its modern inventions is different from ·
that of the past centuries. In the great realm of
time we are but passing through a very small
division of space allotted to us. The stars existed
long before man, and will probably be shining
long after man has disappeared; but their message
remains the same, today, tomorrow, and forever.
It is unchanging and everlasting.
Question: There is one question, Miss Bart, that I
have always wanted to ask you....What
is the basis of Astrology? In this interview
I intend to make my questions as short
and as pointed as I can, but I fear it will
not be possible for you to be as brief, and
at the same time do justice to your sub-
ject-briefly-What is the basis of Astrol-
ogy?
Answer: Astrology is the science that aims pri-
marily at the solution of the numerous
perplexities confronting humanity, and
is based on a knowledge of the influence
of the stars; on the destiny of mankind.
32. THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
This knowledge has been gained by cen-
tury after century of observation and
experience, with the earliest observations
of which we have any knowledge, dating
back many thousands of years before our
present era. I interpret the laws of the
ancients in terms of the accumulated
knowledge and experience today.
Question: Well, how can you prove that your
interpretations of the planetary influences
as affecting the life of an individual are
correct?
Answer: Astrology is a practical science. Its results
may be verified as conclusively as the
findings arrived at by any other science.
Briefly, my knowledge of the science has
been gained largely through study and
experience and its verification has been
gained in the same way, that is, through
study and experience.
Question: You seem to stress this word experience
quite a bit. Now just what do you mean
by experience?
Answer: It is a word that hardly needs explana-
tion. I use it in this sense. A doctor goes
to medical school to gain knowledge. He
then puts in a number of years in hospital
service where he gains experience, and
thus he is able to verify in a practical way
the knowledge he has acquired through
study.
Question:
Answer:
Question:
Answer:
Question:
Answer:
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 33
So I am to understand that Astrology
can be demonstrated in a practical way?
Yes, that is just the point! It is nothing,
if not practical. It is humanity's greatest
boon. In fact that is why I am so wrapped
up in my work. It offers unlimited oppor-
tunity for service.
This is very interesting indeed, but just
what do you mean by service in this
connection?
Much-as you undoubtedly know, much
has been written about the idea of service;
but what I mean by service is helping
humanity - in fact that is the only
true happiness in this world. There is
nothing more substantial. All other roads
to what we are pleased to call happiness
are but ephemeral.
I would be very much interested in know-
ing something about the technical side
of your work?
Each individual is born under very
definite planetary conditions. For
instance, tliere are twelve principal aspects
of the planets, each having its own
effect. Tlie position of the planets at the
time of birth is first determined. This
involves a very precise mathematical
calculation; but right here it should be
explained that the stars incline but they
do not compel. It seems very strange to
34
Question:
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
me that this simple law of Astrology is
not very well understood but if it were
not so, we would be helpless indeed. To
be forewarned is to be forearmed. In
some cases it is wise to combat, in other
cases it may be better to yield or even
take advantage of the planetary influences
as revealed by astrological interpreta-
tion. Today we see the constructive side
of the science more clearly than did those
of the earlier days. The history of the
science reveals innumerable instances of a
hopeless, I might almost say tragic,
yielding to adverse conditions. Today
we know better. The same situation
prevailed in the practice of medicine in
the earlier days. There was a hopeless
yielding to maladies that are today
easily curable and the future of medicine
holds out a hope that humanity may at
some time be freed from disease as we
now understand it and preventative medi-
cine may be the order of the day. Astro-
logy frees man from his accepted and
environmental limitations;-permitting
that something within, call it the Divine,
if you will, to operate untrammeled.
Astrology is the only true guide for an
unfettered self-expression.
I want to thank you for telling me so
much about Astrology. I did not realize
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 35
its vast significance. I was really more
interested in finding out what there was
in it.
Answer: Yes, most people who approach the sub-
ject for the first time feel much the same
as you did and of course they all want a
tangible proof: but they are soon con-
vinced by practical demonstration. Con-
sider this situation for a moment. We all
take it for granted that the earth is round,
yet how many know what constitutes a
scientific demonstration. Yet it can of
course be proved conclusively. The prac-
tical demonstration is most satisfactory
and so it is with Astrology.
Question: Yes, it seems to be a wonderful and mar-
velous subject.
Answer: It is. It is my life's work, and I feel that
it. is worthy of the best that I have to
give.
GilMJEJL.
Mll:W.
~lIJN. ~
Ol! N.
1~1
·~
!EB lE irJH[ •
B. · a sc-
Indicating the analogy between the Hebrew alphabet
and the Zodiacal signs
- CHAPTER II
THE NEW ASTROLOGY
HE New Astrology of which I am a
most ardent exponent, compares
with the older or classic Astrology
much in the same way that the new
Psychology of today compares with
--.::::;;.::,,~...._.~the study of that great branch of the
older science. In short, each is an outgrowth or
development ofthe parent science. In the NewAstrol-
ogy we find a science that is concerned almost
exclusively with practical applications; and it is
in the realm of the revelation of self-knowledge
that it offers its greatest field for service.
I can not stress the value of self-knowledge too
much. It is the thing which we need most today.
While the cry of mankind at the dawn of civiliza-
tion was " Know Thyself;" the answer to this
cry, even allowing for the lapse of time, is today
being only vaguely heard.
The New Astrology alone supplies a dependable
and usable solution. Some may say, " Why is it
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
that we should know so much about ourselves and
why is it not true that the less we know the better?''
The answer is readily discernible. Our haphazard
functioning has been found faulty and unreliable;
it needs accurate guidance and control. Nothing
should be left to chance that can be solved within
the realm of conscious reasoning.
Astrology is a science of the summation and result
of the planetary or heavenly bodies and their
vibratory influence upon man and his life. So much
can be said on this subject that I will endeavor to
weave into as short an explanation as is .possible
and in as little of the technical terms as neces-
sary to make my meaning comprehensible and
sufficient s. s.
Up to the present time there has been no vehicle
by means of which man could analyze himself to
gain self-knowledge, that would be of use to him.
To know ·oneself is more important today than it
was in the time of Socrates, because evolution has
brought with itself wonderful scientific improve-
ments. Therefore the vicissitudes of present day life
need a greater force to over-ride them than at any
previous time.
In the practice of the new Astrology we deal almost
exclusively with practical conditions. As simple as
this may seem as a conclusive statement, it may
nevertheless be difficult to fully appreciate its
significance. Where we are dealing with facts, an
explanation of the basic principles involved is not
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 39
of the greatest importance but it may be of interest.
However, a fact is a fact . Today, the medical world
is commencing to realize that the mental condition
of the individual has more bearing on the case than
was ever before realized. As we have seen, the
planetary influences actually exert a powerful force
upon the organism. So is the mind affected. External
stimuli emanating from innumerable sources con-
trol the individual. These stimuli or forces have,
in fact, throughout the ages so reacted as to produce
all forms of life which we know today. This means
that life is a result of endless modifications. So that,
which we call mind, then, will be understood to
exist as a by-product of these forces. Viewing life
from this point, mind may seem to have a subordi-
nate "offshoot" of material forces; and while in
this sense, mind may seem to be a by-product, it
would be inconsistent with our present knowledge
to consider the by-product, mind, as dominating
to a large extent those forces by means which caused
its production in the beginning.
Therefore, the New Astrology is far-reaching, deep-
searching, and comprehensive; but in all of its
depth, it is practical. By that I mean it is applicable
to everyday life. It is the development of a science
which has existed throughout the ages. It is not
new, but it bears a message to all men, everywhere,
at all times. We are thus studying the present and
much improved and better understood manifesta-
tion of the science of Astrology.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
Tri a n~le
of the
Four. El e m e nts .
2
I have endeavored to show that the New Astrology
is a definite science and that it is in no way con-
nected with mysticism or occultism. The New
Astrology is first of all a practical science, and I
have shown conclusively its practical relations to
the affairs of everyday life. The main value of the
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
New Astrology lies in its great practical utility.
Other points which I have stressed in my various
addresses and talks have had to do with the history
and development of the science. The New Astro-
logy is in direct line with the ancient science which
can be traced back to the earliest time of civilized
man of which we have any records. The evidence
all points to the fact that the ancient Astrology
was developed through countless centuries by
scholars who flourished at a time when civiliza-
tion had attained a high intellectual standard. In
the earlier days there were, of course, certain be-
liefs which we now look upon as superstition.
Nevertheless, at the same time there dawned upon
the understanding of man, certain truths which
have been verified throughout the centuries and
which today are commonly accepted. Those be-
liefs and customs possessing survival value, will
obviously survive throughout time.In other words-
truth is truth. Therefore, as Astrology is based on
truth and inasmuch as truth is truth throughout
time; one may readily understand why Astrology
survives today. The New Astrology is a modern
interpretation of the truth of the ancient science.
To the reader this may sound like repetition, but
I can not stress too often the value of the New
Astrology: not only to those who may feel that
they are somewhat enlightened, by previous know-
ledge of the subject ; but to those, who for the first
time are learning of the science in this my book of
explanation. The New Astrology is an applied
42 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
science in its utility, and a demonstration of its
utility reveals the fact that it is a dependable guide:
a clearing up of doubt and uncertainties which
eases the rough and trying situations that one
meets in daily affairs. It safeguards the future
through dependable guidance and counsel. To be
forewarned is to be forearmed, and this which I
have repeated for emphasis' sake is taken in con-
nection with the fact that the stars incline but do
not compel. We have a basis, through the New
Astrology, that permits every one to proceed with
confidence and surety; and to cast forth all doubts
and to attain that happiness which can be gained
only through perfect understanding. Great intel-
lectual leaders in the past have been staunch be-
lievers in Astrology and have been guided by its
teaching. Great intellectual leaders of today are
using Astrology as a guide in their daily affairs.
{ The late Charles Steinmetz said: '' The world
belongs to the dissatisfied.' ' I answered that I
believed this to be only partially true, for I know
that the world was made for the individual who
understands it and himself. Although self-know-
ledge and guidance are attainable through many
chanµels, the best possible means for knowing your
innate characteristics and tendencies-and I abso-
lutely know this to be true from my contact with
thousands of people whose horoscopes I have
delineated within the last five years-is through a
horoscope delineation by means of the New Astrol-
ogy .9e. .9e.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 43
Again, in order that the reader may see how very
much in demand and what a tremendous appeal
the New Astrology is making, I have deemed it
wise to include in the following pages of this book
some of the daily questions which are asked of
me: questions in the daily routine of my office. You
will readily see the need of such service which I
am rendering as the exponent of the New Astrology.
The value of this science is inestimable.
These following questions were mailed to me after
various talks over the radio in which the listeners-
in were invited to send their date of birth and ask
one serious question in order to promote an interest
in the New Astrology. They are self-explanatory.
The position Astrology holds today is due in great
measure to my unceasing efforts to afford oppor-
tunity for guidance for the masses.
Miss M. R.
Born April 22, 1907.
Your chart indicates success in the commercial
world, preferably as an accountant.
Miss B. G.
Born June 6, 1906.
I do not think it advisable for you to change your
position until the Spring of 192.6. If you make the
change at the present it will probably mean many
changes since you would be making your move
under a Uranus aspect bringing in the unexpected,
upsetting influences and instability which would
tend to discourage you.
44 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
Miss M. L. L.
Your horoscope indicates that you would be suc-
cessful at designing and free-hand drawing.
Miss C. L. T.
Born June 27, 1902.
Your horoscope indicates that the change which
you are making at the present time will be a fixed
one, and will last four years, at which time another
change of a fortunate nature will take place. Pos-
sibly marriage, for Venus will be in conjunction
with the Sun.
Mr.M.R.
Born July 13, 1901.
Your horoscope indicates marriage at the age of
thirty-three-a happy successful one. So keep
yourself occupied in some useful work in the in-
terim.
Mr. J. N. S.
Born February 16, 1901.
You have a very excellent mind and should spend
every moment of your time in cultivating it. Take ·
a night course (if work does not permit you the
necessary time) in construction or engineering, for
it is along this line of endeavor that your financial
success will accrue to you. ·
Mrs. T. V. Christy,
Born October l, 1896.
The most trying period for your brother is during
the months of April and May of this year. There
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 45
is a slight financial gain indicated in your husband's
horoscope; but on the whole he must be very cau-
tious of investments at the present time.
Mrs. G. B.
Born August 29, 19!2..
Your son's chart ~ndicates a vivid imagination
which causes him to exaggerate, and it is in these
early years that you can swerve his mind into the
proper channels by teaching him to adhere stren-
uously to form. This you can do by asking him to
describe certain objects to you and then making
corrections when you find that he has exaggerated
the size and color, by explanation to him.
Mr. E. Beck,
Born Sept. rn, 1895.
It would be better for you to begin your business
affairs during this year. If you find this impossible
at present then do not do so until 1927.
Miss A. L.
Born March 30, l9or.
By all means the stars indicate the characteristics
of an individual as to innate tendencies. Your chart
indicates an active, energetic nature, a keen, ver-
satile mind, fitted for the legal profession.
CHAPTER III
THE NEW ASTROLOGY
m~~~~HE history of Astrology is very
~,.,.0 interesting because of the fact that
it is interwoven with the early
history of mankind. What makes it
~.,,.,,,, so constantly fascinating is its power
~~~~~of revealing to the human mind the
influences centered on that mind. " Know Your-
self '' has come down through the ages like the
proverbs of old. How can one know oneself without
knowing the influences that affect one? That we
are influenced before birth and after is proved day
after day, and we have only to search for the cause.
Profound articles are written on the power of en-
vironment; yet one has only to think of two
brothers or two sisters brought up in the same
environment who are completely different in their
reactions to life.
An individual is born on a particular day. Planetary
bodies in the heavens instil that individual by
their vibrations with definite characteristics, apti-
tudes and abilities. That is why each indivicfual
can perform entirely in his own individual way,
with no comparison with that of his sister, his
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
brother, his mother or his father. People born under
different influences have different temperaments;
and must be approached accordingly, regardless of
environment. For example: -Those who are born
between March 21st and April 20th under the sign
Aries-symbolised by the ram, desire straightfor-
wardness in all activities and contacts. They wish
to be told explicitly what is meant or wanted. When
this is done, they can best use their minds in solving
the problem, for that is their temperament. These
Aries people have much the characteristic of the
ram. They dash boldly onward, head down: not
heeding results which are either beneficial or dis-
astrous, as the individual horoscope may indicate.
( Those born between June 21st and July 20th,
under the sign Cancer symbolised by the crab, are
best reached by an appeal to their emotions. They
are however, .very tenacious and will hold on to
their desires even against their better judgment:
crawling into a shell when difficulty faces them,
much like their prototype the crab.
If they were born between July 21st and August
20th, under the zodiacal sign Leo symbolised by the
lion, an appeal to the feelings or to the heart would
reach them. They will lend their co-operation in
cases where kindness and justice prevail. Like
their prototype, the lion, they are dauntless and
ferocious under attack.
Those born between October 21st and November
20th under the zodiacal sign Scorpio symbolised
by the Scorpion, have a tremendous pride and a
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 49
tenacity of purpose. They are capable of much
success if they will overcome a tendency to strike
back when their pride is hurt. It is worth the effort.
(These examples I have given are based only
upon the influence of the Sun. There are nine
planets and each one exerts its special influence.
The Sun, however, being the major orb, would have
the greatest vibration. A classification of your
characteristics is only possible by a delineation of
your entire horoscope.
Every one knows that without the influence of the
Sun, all·life would perish. The Moon rules the tides
and other forms of growth in Nature. Analogically,
the other planets vibrate their particular influence.
Since man is the highest form of Nature, we expect
and realize that somehow, somewhere, there is a
force that guides our lives. All present scientific ·
research is aiming at one goal-the discovery and
unfoldment of the principle influencing the forces
which play upon man. Up to the present time
there has been no definite scientific method of
ascertaining just what it is that brings the various
episodes, conditions and vicissitudes that we meet
as we career along through life.
One year everything goes our way, and we term it
" luck." There is nothing in the world that hap-
pens by chance, nor are we fated to any particular
groove. We all have a goal-a definite work; but
we all do not reach that goal or recognise that
work because of our non-knowledge. The purpose
of life is activity. Every one of us has a mission to
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
perform-regardless of what it is. A delineation
of the horoscope will reveal to you your message.
(For those who understand Astrology there is no
mystery; no occultism, no inexplicable situations
connected with the practice of this- the oldest
science known to man. Both student and qualified
practitioner find great delight in delving into its
early history.
Our knowledge of the evolution of civilization
begins with the history of early civilized man. If
archeologists would take into consideration the
position occupied by Astrology in man's early
development they would greatly extend their
knowledge of the relations between the various
eras of civilizations : the early existence of which we
are now finding such definite proof. The early
history of mankind is becoming known to us
through excavating expeditions conducted in var-
ious parts of the world. In Egypt we find evidence
of early Egyptian dynasties which existed thou-
sands of years before the time of the ruler Tut-ank-
amen; so much discussed because of the work of the
late Lord Carnarvon and Howard Carter. I refer
to excavations which prove a civilization at least
3,000 years earlier-roughly, 8,ooo years before
our present time, revealing tombs and other struc-
tures produced in the time of Cheops, one of the
builders of the Pyramids. Here we have evidence
of both Astronomical and Astrological knowledge.
Excavations in Babylonia reveal the same; while
hieroglyphics and various markings on columns
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
and buildings excavated in Peru and Central Amer-
ica, also show that a knowledge of Astrology and
Astronomy was known at a very early date in the
Western World.
The present known data does not show clearly which
civilization was the oldest or whether our
present day knowledge of Astrology was derived
from that source. Nevertheless, the Chaldeans
show by the cuneiform records which they left
behind, that Astrology flourished in that part of
the world also, and at a very early though indeter-
minable date. The inference is, that one developed
from the other. Following this line of reasoning,
it is possible to trace a relationship between all
of those early civilizations. Herodotus, who wrote
in 450 B. C. tells us something about the practice
of Astrology centuries earlier in both Egypt and
Chaldea. Both Egyptian and Chaldean records were
handed down century after century: and we find
evidence of this in the Old Testament; with the old
Kings of Israel following the guidance of the stars.
(Reference to the influence of the planets upon
terrestial as well as human objects, as made by
Jeremiah 7-18* is a conspicuous as well as strenuous
plea that Astrology must have been in practice by
generations of individuals ; dating back to the time
* The beauty and splendor that men observe in the stars, and the great
advantages that they derive from thence, the wonderful order that they
have discovered in their course, the influence that has been ascribed to
them in the production and preservation of animals, of fruits, plants, and
minerals prevails with a great number of people to impute to them life,
knowledge, power and to pay them sovereign worship and adoration.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
of the creation of the world when man :first became
a thinking entity-at least as far back as the time
of which we have any knowledge, however inde-
finite and vague such knowledge must be. Jere-
miah's attributing to the stars the special in-
fluences over vegetation, sets a standard of excel-
lence for the knowledge of the stellar vibrations at
so high a mark that it almost discourages emula-
tion .9e- s.
In Deuteronomy 4:19, we find the following state-
ment: " The stars were not made for the worship,
but for the use of men.'' .
Invariably man will worship the means through
which he has been able to attain happiness and
success. To touch upon the realities of life without
injury to his :finer feelings ; no matter how light the
touch, or heavy the life, is every individual's
desire. Knowledge is man's great contaminator
as well as his great source of comfort. But know-
ledge of himself is a social demand, an indispensable
sesame. It links the natural product, his innate
ability, with the lavish flavor of his egotism. It
supplies nutritive needs to animate his aspirations-
his ambitions-without which mental and spiritual
growth is impossible.
This is now generally believed to be true: that
every individual is seeking to know himself. A
reaching out for any supply to :fill the niche: to
the press, which supplies knowledge concerning
what the world is doing or trying to do; because
he knows he is a part and parcel of the world. He
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 53
demands to know of new scientific inventions,
educational functions-new governmental laws,
climatic changes, discoveries in geological, geo-
graphical and anthropological fields: any enlighten-
ment that leads primarily to satisfy the inner urge:
to make life useful, natural and easy to live: to get
the maximum success and joy at the minimum
exertion. In this respect we stand pledged to know-
ledge. A knowledge of the planetary influences as
they affect us at birth, puts distance between am-
bition and the realization of it into the dust-bin of
time. To make use of the stars as a guide in his
daily life, is a privilege that even those who have
passed the meridian of life may expeditiously take
advantage of. To know, without disturbing, dis-
tressing experiences, just what nature has fitted
you for and to know how to direct your aptitudes
is indispensable. All this knowing is possible
through a delineation of the horoscope-the map
of the heavens revealing the position of the planets
at your birth and how they affect your life.
That the planets exercise an attractive force upon
every plane of nature of which man is the highest
embodiment in form, we have seen previously in this
book; and that a knowledge of the effect of each
planet upon man can be attained by him through a
aefinite system of study, however simple or difficult
it may appear-is the hopeful tantalization of every
aspiring individual who seeks guidance in his daily
life through planetary means.
Men who can and men who can not think for
54 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
themselves need guidance, for the thought becomes
an action and every individual action has its effect
upon a community. The man who does not act
rightly, that is, for the greatest good to the great-
est number, regardless of the motive, is a burden
to himself and a material obstruction to his com-
munity s. s..
It has been definitely established that a knowledge
of Astrology was attained by man at what we are
pleased to term a very early date in the develop-
ment of civilization. Here of course, we must realize
that we are limiting the idea of civilization; as it
is quite possible that man rose to great heights of
cultural attainment even in the so-called pre-historic
time. But inasmuch as our present day civilization
differs so remarkably from what we know of these
early times, we are perhaps without a basis for
comprehension or significant comparison.
Various types of pre-historic man must have existed
at a much earlier period than what is generally
accepted at the present time. The Cromanian is
considered by many scientists to be the immediate
predecessor of modern man. The estimates indicate
that he existed in Southern Europe about 20,000
years ago. If he is really the predecessor of modern
man, this estimate seems to be contradicted by our
knowledge of what was taking place in Southern
Asia and Egypt at that time. I point to recent
disclosures showing that a civilization was develop-
ing in Egypt at the same time that the Cromanian
existed in Southern Europe. Also, it is evident that
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 55
the civilization of the early Egyptians, which all
scientific studies indicate was attained about 10,000
years ago, must have required many thousands of
years to arrive or develop. The study of the stars
by these early people undoubtedly required many
thousands of years of observation, formulation and
verification; as we find in the time of the ruler
Cheops, a thorough grasp of Astrology. This would
indicate that their knowledge was neither haphaz-
ard nor in-exact, and most of this knowledge has
been passed down through the centuries to modern
mans. s.
Considering the historical development of Astrol-
ogy at a somewhat later period, we find reference
to it as a definite science. We also find evidence of
a firm belief in it in the writings of the Greek and
Roman philosophers in the time before the Christ-
ian era. Pythagoras founded his school upon
teachings derived from the priests of Egypt in the
7th and 8th centuries before the Christian era. We
also find reference to Astrology in the New Testa-
ment. The birth of Christ was predicted by the
three Astrologers mentioned in the Gospels. Later
in history we find the leading philosophers of their
time, staunch believers in Astrology. Such men as
Galen, Tycho Brah, Galileo and Aristotle, clearly
show the influences of Astrology in their lives.
Galen, as you undoubtedly know, was one of the
world's greatest educators. He lived in the second
century, about 130 A. D., and showed clearly by
his writings that he believed in the influences of
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
the stars, and used Astrology as a guide in daily
life s. s.
The New Astrology, as I have clearly pointed out,
is an interpretation of the old Classic Science in
terms of today's conditions. Here is an important
factor which I would make emphatic-changes
have come about in the Classical Science, and these
changes have led directly to the science of today-
the New Astrology.
Since the Middle Ages a new spirit has come upon
humanity, exerting its influence upon every human
activity. Obviously this influence has had its effect
upon Astrological interpretation. The Brotherhood
of Man may not have arrived as yet, but there is
an influence--call it what you will-that suggests
the '' helping hand ''... benevolence, or something
very much akin, which it seems was lacking in
the earlier period of human development.
This is one aspect of the present day trend as differ-
ing from that of the Middle Ages and of previous
history. Man has found that he has an individual-
ity to express, and a knowledge of himself will give
him that complete confidence which is so necessary
for self-expression. Psychological and psycho-analy-
tical studies show very clearly that the individual
must express himself to his fullest in order to live
a normal, happy and vigorous life. This is verified
by Astrology. But the New Astrology goes a step
further. It shows definitely this knowledge of self,
which can not be obtained by any other means. It
eliminates haphazard functioning. It helps attain
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 57
a definite goal in life with less difficulty than
would otherwise be experienced. It mitigates the
trials and tribulations which wreck the soul and
dull the mind. It gives a definite understanding to
the individual of himself and the best method of
procedure with the least possible difficulty. It
indicates the most propitious time for carrying out
whatever project he may wish to further. Even
in the material world-I mean Orthodox Material
World, we have the Psychiatrist telling us that to
function normally you must express yourself along
lines compatible with your innate desires. This is
logical and reasonable. While the psychiatrist's
diagnosis may be ever so correct, there can be no
cure without complete self-knowledge. Success is
so seldom satisfying. I mean the kind of success
that the story books and newspapers extol. ..
because it so infrequently answers the basic cry
from within. The New Astrology reveals self-
knowledge to its fullest. It affords the necessary
guidance for an efficient existence through a normal
gratification of the innate desires. It leads to the
kind of success you are proud of-success that satis-
fies and makes the world,-because of your efforts
-a better place to live in.
In order to explain the significance of self-know-
ledge, I must first tell you what it is and then just
what it means to the individual. Self-knowledge
embraces a complete understanding of one's self;
and therefore includes a thorough comprehension
of all desires, aspirations, mental and physical
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
requirements, both conscious and unconscious.
By '' conscious '' I mean what is ever in the active
mind and can be readily reached through the reason-
ing faculties; and as represented by your day-to-day
or hour-to-hour wishes, which are so frequently
present in your thoughts. Upon an analysis of im-
pulse and behavior of individuals we are quickly
brought to a realization of another force which is
apparently below the threshold of consciousness.
In action it is all-compelling. Introspection also
makes us aware of our consciousness or to make
my idea a little clearer, I might say, our " not-
conscious '' impulses. A complete knowledge of
self must therefore include the trend or demand of
the unconscious desires as well as those which are
plainly conscious.
Besides desires there are aspirations, instincts,
and bodily requirements, all of which are more or
less merged into each other by means of which for
analysis and discussion they are best taken up
separately.
To begin with, there are certain instinctive desires
of the individual which must be met or reckoned
with in some way, before the individual can attain
anything like a normal reaction from life. A thwart-
ing of these instinctive requirements either partial-
ly or wholly will result in an unbalancing of the
individual in some degree-perhaps physically-
perhaps mentally-or possibly, both.
Man does not attain to that harmony of existence
which makes for a happy contented life without
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 59
the gratification or at least the balancing up of
these instinctive desires. They must be reckoned
with. By " instinct," I mean the impulse to act
without bringing into play the conscious reason-
mainly in connection with, or for the purpose of
self-preservation and for the perpetuation of the
race. There is the element of heredity in instinct.
As man is gregarious, that is, basically a herd
animal; there is also that desire which is instinctive,
to appear well before the herd.
The practical side of the New Astrology is most
convincingly revealed in its portrayal of self-
knowledge. There are two questions which natural-
ly come to one's mind in this connection. How is it
that the New Astrology reveals self-knowledge
to the individual; and of what value is that so-called
self-knowledge?
Answering the first, I wish to make clear that every-
thing that Astrology is and stands for is involved
in this revealment of the individual. Each and
every one is born under certain definite planetary
influences. Your characteristics, your aims, your
aptitudes, are a result of these influences; although
it is true that Cosmic influences which as a matter
of fact constitute your environment, actually
modify these planetary influences or aspects.
One of the fundamentals of Astrology, which I
can not repeat too often, is that the stars incline
but do not compel. You master your own destiny!
The aspects of the Heavens reveal man as having
certain tendencies. In the earlier days of the science
60 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
the converse was invariably taken into considera-
tion as well. The converse being that inasmuch as
man was guided by certain constructive influences,
that the destructive influences were equally opera-
tive. The yielding to this point of view inevitably
leads to difficulty, or at least to great perplexity.
Today we know that it is not necessary to hope-
lessly bend to adverse circumstances or conditions.
All the good that Astrology has done and can do
is brought to practical application in this situa-
tion. " To be forewarned is to be forearmed "
always vibrates as a powerful truth, however
homely the words may sound through familiarity.
(Everyone knows the words, and many have
pondered over their significance-their deep signi-
ficance, " There is no terror in knowing if you have
confidence' '-confidence that the difficulty, however
seemingly direful, may be overcome by the under-
standing of the situations involved. This has been
proved again and again by practical demonstra-
tion. The New Astrology of today stands out in
marked contrast to the Astrology of the Middle
Ages s.. _..
The second question involves the value of self-
knowledge and of its importance. From the time
of Socrates to the present day great philosophers
have written on this subject. Socrates' great mes-
sage to humanity was " Man, Know Thyself."
Socrates did not mean " Know Thyself" in con-
nection with man's limitations, necessarily. He
meant it in connection with man's natural or
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
native abilities; so · that knowing the natural
inclinations, man could develop along the lines
most suited for him. Various sciences have included
this idea as a basis for research and experimenta-
tion. Modern psychology is largely a delving into
the innate characteristics of the individual. Psycho-
analysis, through its analytical probings, aims at
much the same thing-a revealment of self-for
self-expression which is a development of the herd
instinct. Man is gregarious.
In our present state of civilization this demand for
self-expression has become a very serious problem.
In many respects Life is exceedingly complex; and
the understanding of our instinctive faculties is
not sufficiently reliable to guide us correctly in
finding that sphere of activity for which our natural
aptitudes best fit us.
This situation is the most difficult to face under
present conditions. Everything that life holds dear
seems to either depend upon or revolve around it.
And there is only one source of information that
will surely meet this difficulty-the guidance
obtainable through an understanding of the planet-
ary influences which reveal the innate character-
istics~~
Our present knowledge indicates that from the
very beginning life on this planet on down through
the ages, has been an evolutionary trend; a develop-
ment, a change from one form to another. This
evolution resulted at one stage in a primitive type
of man having a highly developed physical organ-
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
ism and a high order of intelligence as well. Skele-
tal remains found at various places on the earth
bear this out. The Cro-Magnon of Southern Europe
of 10,000 or 20,000 years ago is an example. He was
a splendid specimen-tall and of fine physique. He
depended more on his instinctive faculties for
guidance than upon reason. He was the man of
instinct at his best, and we are not so far removed
from that man; surprising as it may seem. To grasp
this close relation consider for a moment the num-
ber of descendants in direct line occuring in one
family in 100 years-that is one century. If we take
an average of three individuals or descendants we
have a fairly reasonable figure to use for our con-
sideration or example. This would then mean that
there are three direct descendants per family per
century-illustrated, let us say, by grandfather,
father and son, all born when the parent was at the
average age of thirty-three years. Of course this is
not true of every family, but I want to show you
just how many individuals may be in direct descent
in 100, l,ooo and 10,000 years. According to my
example, three per century would mean only 30
in l,ooo years-that is 30 people in direct line and
only 300 individuals in direct descent in 10,000 years
-not very many you will admit. To grasp this idea
a little more definitely, just imagine a line of 300
individuals with yourself at one end, and your
forebear of 10,000 years ago at the other end. Can
you inagine any marked change of difference in
type? I am sure you can not. Nor can we show
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
through our most exhaustive scientific studies that
there is any change whatever, that might be indica-
tive of intelligence.
Difference in physical appearance there must have
been, but this difference certainly must have been
in favor of the man at the other end of the line; the
primitive man of 10,000 years ago. In making this
comparison my main idea has been to show that
intelligence-I mean average intelligence, has ap-
parently undergone very little, if any change during
the course of civilization. Our instincts have become
very much dulled. I must admit there are some who
claim that there is evidence of a decline in intelli- .
gence, but this point of view is not generally
accepted; and I will therefore not consider it in
my present discussion. What is apparent is that
many of our instinctive faculties have become
dulled and at the same time our conscious know-
ledge has progressed in leaps and bounds. To fully
realize this situation we need only to consider
changes that have occurred within comparatively
recent times. We have been careering along at such
a terrific speed that we have apparently lost our
sense of perspective.
Today we have inventions, and the most remark-
able thing about them, is that we take them, revolu-
tionary as they are, almost for granted. We have
the automobile in all its stages of development and
perfection. Many children of from 8 to 10 years
of age know more about the particular field of
mechanics with which the automobile is concerned
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
than the greatest engineer of 50 years ago; and
he in turn knew more in his field than his predecessor.
This merely means that our conscious knowledge is
rapidlyaccumulating and that ourintelligence is such
as to assimilate it with a corresponding speed. I am
sure that anyone would take this example as an
illustration of the improvement of intelligence.
There are examples innumerable and striking. Con-
sider for a moment the evolution of the steamboat.
Countless numbers of people today possess a know-
ledge of marine transportation that was undreamed
of in the days of Robert Fulton. And here you will
note that a difference in intelligence is not involved.
(In this way we can delve back through the·ages
without finding any definite proof, that any such
change in intelligence has taken place during the
period to which I refer.
In the matter of instinct; however, we have a
much different situation to face as we have much
evidence to support the idea that the trend of man's
evolution is from the unconscious or instinctive
phase to that of complete consciousness and com-
plete understanding.
In this connection we catch a faint glimpse of the
purpose of life. It seems that Nature with her
unlimited resources is producing another force
with which to complete a process initiated in the
universe countless ages ago. This force is the Mind
of Man.
Coincident with the unfoldment of our conscious
faculties we note a loss of instinctive activity which
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
is evident in many directions. Our acquisition of
conscious knowledge seems to be responsible for
this loss-a penalty for our enlightenment.
Children between the ages of 6 and 12., under suit-
able conditions will swim instinctively. Most
adults who have not learned to swim in their youth
are obliged to go through a laborious course of
instruction, and even then frequently fail to learn.
( Our teeth cause us a multitude of troubles be-
cause the instinctive guidance that would avoid
these difficulties is denied us today. This is borne
out by the fact that we have fairly reliable evidence
to show that nature untrammelled would take
care of these matters for us, much better than we
can ourselves. This may seem rather startling, even
shocking to many, as we are living in the age of
the tooth-brush. But while the tooth-brush is
undoubtedly a necessity today, we must not forget
that it is not a part of man's equipment.
Our instinctive guidance having become impaired;
there is little wonder that our instinctive desire for
self-expression is so exceedingly difficult to gratify.
We must of necessity find some channel, for self-
expression. It is an imperative demand and it must
be met.
Today we are just beginning to understand some-
thing about such a simple thing as diet-what
man should and should not eat. Just think what
this means! Science with its discovery of the im-
portance of the accessory food factors, the vitamines,
has opened up a field of knowledge to man that may
66 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
actually change the whole trend of human events.
The application of this knowledge will undoubted-
ly have a marked influence on the race.
Countless ills and even death itself are now attribu-
table to deficiencies in our food . Not only vitamines
but many other constituents are now found to be
of absolute necessity.
How then did primitive man survive without this
knowledge? The answer can only be that his in-
stinctive faculties were his only guide. He knew
instinctively that which was required for his needs.
He himselfwas a result of countless trials and errors;
and on down through the years of civilization, we
have been steadily losing our instinctive faculties
not only in matters of diet, but in many other direc-
tions relating to the physical life. Hence the cry
for self-knowledge from Aristotle and Socrates
down to the present day, is the same imperative
cry for self-knowledge.
What is true of the physical is also true of the
mental. It is for chemistry and the medical sciences
to supply much of this needed knowledge so that
we may attain bodily efficiency.
The instinctive desire for self-expression which -our
psychologists have proved is so dominant a demand
of every individual, can be furthered and adequately
gratified along normal, productive channels only
through a knowledge of the planetary influences
as revealed through science-the New Astrology.
(We have so many things to learn all over again
-how to walk properly; and when I say "prop-
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
erly " I mean to the best advantage; how to
breathe properly; how to exercise properly; how to
eat properly and how to live happily and content-
edly as gregarious animals-whidi we are.
The other sciences have done much to better the
lot of man in a material way. The New Astrology
advances the cause of civilization by revealing man
himself s. s.
I offer the following information for my women
readers especially, for never before in the evolution
of mankind has there been so much uncertainty-
so much apparent unhappiness, as is prevalent
amongst women. This is attributable to a non-
knowledge of self. Women are filling a new niche
in the world-are claiming their right to an
advanced evolution; and will, by the very nature
of things, arrive at an absolute state of happiness
-but only in well-doing-that for which nature
intended them. It is in this spirit that the following
classification of the various types of women is
made in a more special sense than is given in the
general discussion elsewhere in this book. There
are twelve distinct classes.
If you were born in Aries, between March 2.ISt and
April 2.oth, you are natural leaders-energetic and
active, and an absolute essential to your happiness
is a definite amount of athletics daily. Those born
under the heading of Aries find that their place
in the world is that of a leader, either in social or
business activities; but such activities must never
be confined to personal gratification. They must
68 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
include an interest in the uplift and happiness of
others. Only in such a way can Aries people attain
perfect happiness for themselves. You are a thinker;
your place is either at the lead, or in the literary
field ....
If you were born in Taurus, between April 21st and
May 20th, you have your own ideals ; are constant
and conservative; should be vastly interested in
personal adornment, and make the artistic field
your chief endeavor. You are entertaining-the
singer, the artist, the painter; and have natural
aptitude for all those creative activities which
come under the heading of the Fine Arts. Unless
you are functioning along one of these lines ; and
taking an unusual interest in feminine attire, you
can not be completely happy, regardless of what
your other activities may be.
If you were born between May 21st and June 20th
your sign is Gemini. You have a brilliant wit and
versatile comprehension that make for success in
the literary field . This is the age of writing, and
unless you are exercising your imagination and
contributing your share to the world of literature
-be it verse, journalism, or the novel; you are not
functioning properly. You must have a great
amount of mental and physical activity to receive
your measure of the world·s happiness.
If you were born between June 21st and July 20th,
your sign is Cancer. Your great sympathy, your
tenacity and sensitiveness, and your great love for
the home make you the mother of the world. Your
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
long forte is in creating the home. You are the perfect
hostess, and this is the field for your contentment.
(If you were born between July 21st and August
20th, your sign is Leo. You possess the faculty of
combining the real and the iaeal. You are a lover
of comfort and luxury, and are most successful in
club work, social uplift; and in general making
this world a better place to live in, through the
drama, the power of the pen or oratory; but you
must create an opportunity for your sister which
her judgment would have lost. Combined with
your other duties this places you in your rightful
strata in the world for the greatest happiness.
If you were born between August 21st and Septem-
ber 20th, your sign is Virgo. Your practicality,
discrimination, and sagacious mind place you
among the natural teachers of the world. As critic,
scientist, statistician and in professional pursuits
is where the greatest good may be realized for your
personal efforts. It is particularly important for
you not to neglect your personal appearance in
your great desire to serve.
If you were born between September 21st and Octo-
ber 20th, your sign is Libra. Your love nature holds
sway above all else in life. You believe in living
and letting live. You are the romancer. You will
probably have a great many ajfaires du coeur. Your
right vocation is the stage; providing amusement
for others, and you also have a natural ability for
interior decorating. In personal attire you set the
mark that others may follow.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
If you were born between October 21st and Novem-
ber 20th, your sign is Scorpio. You are ever desirous
of making a good impression. You have great
magnetism, and should make constructive use of
the higher wisdom inherent in you. Your natural
vocation requires the active use of your physical
as well as mental qualities. You would be successful
in anything you undertook, provided your head
and your aspirations are sufficiently high; but be
fr.ank to all, and do not expect more than you
give~~
If you were born between November 21st and De-
cember 20th, your sign is Sagittarius. Your greatest
difficulty may be making a goal for yourself.Your
greatest harmony would be in ultra-social circles-
in the diplomatic field. You would make an excel-
lent linguist and novelist.
If you were born between December 21st and
January 20th, your sign is Capricorn. You are
practical and concrete, and find your greatest
happiness merely in doing. Your greatest success
would be in the business world; and in order for
you to receive the greatest return from life, you
should be active in some pursuit that keeps you in
contact with industrial situations.
If you were born between January 21st and February
20th your sign is Aquarius. You are the true human-
itarian, with a high order of intellect and a craving
for knowledge of profound subjects. You are by
nature a collector of antiques and a promoter of
large enterprises. In social life you may be called
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 71
upon for extemporaneous act1v1ues. In charitable
causes you would be the power behind the throne.
E G Y PTI A ~ P L A NI SP H[ R f .
{If you were born between February 21st and
March 20th, your sign is Pisces. You are one of the
dreamers of the world. Your ideals are so high that
it is difficult for others to live up to them. You
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
would make a successful sensational novelist, auto-
biographer, dealer in Fine Arts, emotional actress;
and should contribute from your mental powers to
New Thought.
From the foregoing may be deduced the fact that
each has her rightful place in the world, and being
constituted differently from one another, the planet-
ary bodies mark for you a definite course of activity;
which, if pursued, will be the cause of subsiding
much of the present unrest among women.
- CHAPTER IV
EXPERIENCE IN ASTROLOGY
N THIS division of my book I shall
present some of the thoughts and
experiences which have come ·to me
during my long experience as an
astrologer. I hope that in them the
"""""'""""""~...__........, reader may find much benefit and
instruction. Such is my work before the various
advertising clubs; and the many organizations
with which I have to deal daily. I am constantly
called to present to some organization, either of
men or of women, the fundamentals of my profes-
sion. During the past four years I have given many
public lectures and radio talks, and the response
has met with unusual success. It has been more
than gratifying. In all of my public appearances
including my bi-weekly talks, I have never pre-
pared anything in advance; and have relied upon
my stenographer to take down my addresses so
that they might be preserved. An interesting feature
with regard to these talks is that I always allow
for time in which the members of my audience are
at liberty to ask questions pertaining to themselves.
The reader will find examples of some of the ques-
74 THE BEAVENS PROCLAIM
tions asked of me and will see my response to the
same. My fee for these addresses is necessarily
Egyptian Planisphere
large; and I have received for all my twenty-
minute addresses a fee ranging from fifty to five
hundred dollars. I have given over fifty addresses
during the past year. It is hoped that the following
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 75
pages will be convincing of the inestimable value
of such endeavor and that this is one of the most
interesting and profitable subjects in the whole
field of human interest today. To understand the
New Astrology as I present it is to understand life ·
correctly and in its proper light. We all want to
get the most out of life that we possibly can, and
here is offered the key to the door of happiness,
content, and joyful living.
If you are a helpless wayfarer, do not despair.
There is a light to guide you out of the labyrinth
of your perplexities. Look up into the Heavens.
The stars are your guide.
Astrology has been called the science of kings, in
the past; but its modern disciples have developed
it to a point where it is applicable to the vital
needs of everyday life. You, too, may reap its
benefits if you will but open your eyes to its won-
ders ......
A knowledge of Astrology brings another battering
ram to bear against the citadel of success by show-
ing you the most opportune time for carrying out
your projects. The stars tell you what period of
your life is favorable for one kind of work and
what time is propitious for another type of enter-
prise. The possession of such knowledge is of
incalculable value in any phase of life-be it busi-
ness, social or domestic. Threatening dangers can
be avoided or minimized. Opportunity can be recog-
nized and employed to the best advantage. Again,
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM .
forewarned is forearmed. Thus you mould fate,
instead of being moulded by it.
As your self-knowledge grows, your chances of
happiness increase. If you have not yet found
yourself-if you are groping in the dark for some-
thing which you know is there; but which you can
not quite visualize, consult the stars. Discover
what your goal is. The fact that your aspirations
lean in a certain direction shows that you have
inherent talent for that type of work. Let the stars
make clear to you the path you should follow, and
success and happiness are yours. When man realizes
that he is doing the work for which Nature intend-
ed him, life is joy, not drudgery. It is therefore
your duty to yourself and to humanity, in whose
service you are enrolled to master your destiny-
that you may make life worth the living.
As an idea of the effect of planetary influence let
us suppose you were born between March 21st and
April 20th. Your zodiacal sign is Aries. Your chief
characteristics are energy and activity. You are a
natural leader and should never work under orders.
If you do, you are apt to lose your initiative. Unless
you receive quick co-operation on a project you
may lose your zeal. You are idealistic to a degree
and have remarkable powers of perception.
If the presiding director of your individuality was
in the sign Taurus-between April 21st and May
20th-your chief characteristics are constancy and
conservatism. You have tremendous building pow-
ers, and your perseverance will enable you to carry
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 77
out whatever you undertake. You work best asso-
ciated with others; and are reliable, practical, and
trustworthy. You must, however, be careful that
under management of another you do not entirely
submerge yourself. You are dogmatic and deter-
mined, and inclined to be obstinate.
If you were born when the Sun was in Gemini-
between May 2.ISt and June 2.oth-you are versatile
and ready of comprehension. You delight in intel-
lectual pursuits, but you may lack the concentra-
tion to succeed in them.
You are temperamental, and therefore, in order to
make the best use of your powers and abilities,
you should strive always to be active mentally and
physically. You have a subtle sense of humor and
brilliant wit, which, if made the dominant note,
will gain advantage for you in your contact with
people. You can take the reins in the successful
management of many interests; but you have a
tendency to start numerous enterprises without
having the tenacity of purpose to bring them to a
successful termination.
If your birthday falls between June 2.rst and July
2.oth, your strong features are tenacity and sensi-
tiveness. You are quiet, reserved, emotional, and
sentimental, and have a great love for the home
and its surroundings. Your great sympathy for
everything in general and your dislike of disapprov-
al may cause you untold heartaches. You should
be careful in selecting your environment; as uncon-
genial associations have a most deleterious effect
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
upon your health and character. A great deal of
difficulty in shaping your life can be overcome if
you will try to oust the spirit of jealousy.
If the Sun was in the sign Leo when you were born
-from July i.1st to August i.oth-your chief char-
acteristics are faith and compassion. You should
never work under command of others, as you are
a natural leader. You possess the faculty of combin-
ing the ideal and the real. You are sensitive and
intuitive, and respond readiJy to uplifting in-
fluences. You are capable of realizing all ambitions,
and should follow the dictates of your heart,
striving to put into actual form the lofty thoughts
that possess you. Adverse conditions can never
keep you down permanently. Therefore, when
encountering trials in business or in personal mat-
ters, your greatest help lies in sti11mlating the fires
of your inherent faith.
If you were born between August i.1st and Septem-
ber i.oth when the Sun was in the sign Virgo, your
strong points are practicality, discrimination and
censoriousness. You are a natural teacher, possess-
ing a sagacious mind that should be used in self-
development and in helping others.You have marked
inventive talents and resourcefulness. You are
ambitious and can become profound in knowledge.
You should never work under orders, nor as an
executive; but associate yourself with another.
(If the Sun was in the sign Libra when you were
born-between September i.1st and October i.oth
-your chief characteristics are a sense of justice
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 79
and the desire for equilibrium. You are extremely
sensitive and remarkably intuitive. Your love
nature holds sway above all else in life. You have
a most lovable and charming personality when
highly developed. You are gentle, sensitive, and
agreeable, but are likely to go to extremes, and are
easily led by flattery.
If you were born between October 2.ISt and Novem-
ber 2.oth, when the Sun was in the sign Scorpio,
you have determination and penetration. You have
a high regard for the conventionalities. You have
great magnetism, and almost second sight, and
can make constructive use of this higher wisdom.
Your great love of rulership and your equally
strong demand for obedience are apt to make you
a most domineering and disliked person unless
you govern wisely.
Were you born when the Sun was in the sign
Sagittarius-between November 2.ISt and December
2.oth-your chief characteristics are insight and
fidelity. You are naturally prophetic and intuitive,
self-confident and self-reliant. You are a lover of
law and order, frank, generous, and sensitive.
Your greatest difficulty lies in marking a goal for
yourself. You should definitely decide what you
want in life. Then all your forces will naturally
tend toward the attainment of that goal. Unless
you have a fixed objective you are apt to vacillate
and squander your force and energy. Your happi-
ness depends upon your ability to express yourself
through some individual labor.
So THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
If you were born between December i.1st and Jan-
uary i.oth, when the Sun was in the sign Capricorn,
you possess understanding and diplomacy. You
have a high order of intelligence, being studious
and ambitious. You are practical and concrete;
and are willing to work matters out instead of
awaiting opportunity. You are fond of pomp and
honor, which, if you consider carefully, mean very
little. You have a keen conception of money values,
and are generally willing to plod along until you
accumulate a competency. You are methodical and
careful about matters entrusted to you; and will
carry out instructions to the letter. You are, how-
ever, likely to become phlegmatic and find yourself
hemmed in unless you bestir yourself occasionally.
If your birthday falls between January 2.I st and
February i.oth, when the Sun was in the sign
Aquarius, your chief characteristics are idealism
and benevolence. You are impulsive, and should
think matters out before making a decision. Most
events in life will come to you unexpectedly, either
for good or for evil; and it is for you to determine
by your attitude the amount of happiness you
desire life to bring you. You are strong for prin-
ciple, and because of your dogmatism you are
likely to be labeled eccentric. You are apt to be
abrupt, and have little or no respect for convention.
You have the interests of the world at heart and
are a true humanitarian when living up to your
highest possibilities.
If you were born between February i.1st and March
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 81
20th, when the Sun was in the sign Pisces, you are
emotional and sympathetic. You are apt to go
through life misunderstood, even by those close
to you. You may lack self-confidence and therefore
lose a great many possibilities. You seek and follow
the advice of others to a great extent; so that for
you it is most essential to associate with the
right-thinking people whose influence is bound to
be beneficial to you.
A letter from a man who was evidently much dis-
satisfied with himself and his surroundings, was
recently printed in a newspaper. He was sincerely
seeking guidance. He asked if someone could help
him to determine what was wrong with him. He
said he was a good carpenter, a good bookkeeper,
a stenographer, and had been a soldier. He could
teach people horsemanship; he had had charge of
a factory; in fact, he had an excellent education
and versatile enough to be able to do almost any-
thing. This he modestly admitted. He knew when
a thing was right and when it was not right. He
was earning money-but-he was dissatisfied. He
said it was not a case of companionship, for he
was married to a real helpmeet, and had two fine
children. Yet he was unhappy.
He omitted the prime factor in the analysis of him-
self. He failed to state in which of these positions
he was at his best; whether as the directing force
in the factory, or as the bookkeeper in the office.
It is evident that he lacked this knowledge. If he
had known, the printing of this letter would ob-
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
viously have been unnecessary here. ( This is a
case of a man absolutely sincere; seeking truth,
seeking assistance, seeking guidance for his
many versatilities. He has many real aptitudes
but no fundamental knowledge of his capabilities,
or the correct procedure for the use of his ability.
With this man the process of elimination is the
only course for him to pursue. How, then, can he
·know what to eliminate, and upon which ability
to concentrate. The man who is a misfit, or a square
peg in a round hole, is generally considered to be
a person of inferior calibre. That this is erroneous
can not be disputed. Men of great intellect, intel-
ligence and learning, at some time in life, find it
difficult to place themselves to get the greatest
return from life-mentally, spiritually, physically
and financially. Here the New Astrology again
comes to the assistance of mankind, showing how
the individual is governed by controlling planetary
influences under which he is born. I want to make
it clear that these influences do incline ; but they do
not compel. What these influences are byreasonof the
position of these heavenly bodies at the moment
of his birth, can readily be ascertained and results
reached in a specific way much as the general
examples already given in this chapter. Through
the delineation of the horoscope the individual
can learn whether he was born to be an executive;
or to be the man under orders; a lawyer or a physi-
cian, a laborer, or a journalist, through the entire
gamut of human activity. As Astrology lays claim
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
therefore to a scientific basis through which these
conclusions are reached-so it must in itself be
scientific, and this claim must of necessity be sub-
ject to verification. It was this scientific procedure
that brought chemistry from its chaotic condition
of Alchemy to its present high position among the
modern sciences. The Alchemy of the ancients was
on about the same basis as the cook-book of our
grandfathers: a collection of apparently unrelated
phenomena; and of course with no knowledge as
to the why-for of the various reactions, observed
and used. While the principle object of Alchemy
was to find a means of transmuting the baser metals
to gold, and while this was never accomplished;
many important methods of producing the baser
metals, some elements, many compounds and metal-
lic alloys, owe their discovery to the alchemists.
Even phosphorus was first produced by an alchemist
who had little knowledge of the reaction involved
in its production.
In the New Astrology we have evidence of a scien-
tific basis practically from the start. The conclusions
reached have never been erroneous. It was developed
from the stage of experimental science to that of
an exact science through observation, systematic
compiling and computing; and actual verification
of the planetary influences on the activites of man
which were in force at the time of birth. It is quite
evident that the effect of the Sun as I explained
previously was first taken into consideration and
the effect of the other planets added as the recorded
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
data increased. Some of the oldest Chaldean writ-
ings refer to the science of Astrology and astrologic-
al development, in which the Sun plays a prominent
part; whereby conclusions are reached and results
verified as in the above material. ( Time is
an illusion of the senses. Einstein and others
have proved this mathematically. What seems
to be '' Time '' is the succession in combina-
tions of matter which is in a constant state of flux.
These considerations led Einstein to insist in 1915
that the motion of all bodies is their apparent
change in situation relatively to one another. The
objects which constitute our universe will present
appearances which differ in every case according to
the situation and kind of motion as noted by the
observer with his measuring instruments. These ap-
pearances are the actual reality.Absolute shape, posi-
tion and measurement are all meaningless. Space
and time disappear as self-subsistent and in their
place we get a plurality of relative systems. All
matter is composed of electrons. Nothing beyond
this is known. The electrons have not been seen.
Their presence has only been mathematically dem-
onstrated-their nature is a guess. Matter, that is,
the Material Universe, has no validity as substance.
Attenuated it becomes invisible. Science has merely
proved that each form of matter has its place in
what is called that atomic scale, according to the
number of electrons in each one of the atoms that
compose it. The result is dissection, analyzation
and classification in the most mathematical manner
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
of forms of consciousness. { And all of this
has to do with the case in point-the proper
elucidation of the horoscope. The New Astrol-
ogy is concerned with the practical interpre-
tations; and applications of this data to man's
life and activity are made in terms of present-day
knowledge and customs. The keynote is practica-
bility; its demands are utility-usefulness. Any
interpretations, any revealment through the New
Astrology, must be primarily of definite value as
a guide-an indicator for one's every action! The
education of behavior, and an improvement of
understanding and development of faith are the
three requisites for a complete, useful and successful
life. From one point of view life suggests the phe-
nomena of a chemical reaction. Chemical reactions
usually result in the producing of a primary and
secondary matter-the characteristics of which in
the comparison of primary and secondary matter
depends upon the point of view. The chemical
reactions associated with life result in the produc-
tion of energy as the main product; and cause the
products of metabolism which make for the repair
and upkeep of the organism. Secondary products
in the life reaction are those which result from
oxidation and the process of producing energy; and
are as a rule of an injurious organism unless very
promptly removed upon production. They are the
products, the accumulation of which will run
counter to the cause of the reaction. That is they
will stop the life reaction completely. In fact, this
86 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
is commencing to be considered by many scientists
today as the most definite explanation of death
-that is of the life cycle.
Why should one form of life, say, an insect, have
a life cycle of twenty-four hours while another
insect will have a life cycle of many years, or even
months? This may in part be explained upon the
assumption that the organism has adapted itself
to a reaction, which is auto-toxic with respect to
a certain period of time: which means that the
organism produces a self-destroying poison at a
certain rate which rate apparently bears some
relationship to its period of maturity. This may to
some extent bear some relation to the law of
Maltus; or it may be only an obvious sequel in the
reproduction which is at first stimulated by an
abundant food supply. This stimulation itself in-
creases reproduction at such an increased rate that
the increase in organisms which have passed through
the life cycle automatically, check the increase in re-
produ~tion even before the food supply has been
outstripped; though for many years tlie stock may
have lain dormant because of unfavorable conditions
for development. Herein we have an explanation
of one of the main factors in Evolution-change
takes place under favorable conditions. A dormant
state or even retrogression may be the result of
unfavorable conditions. The physical development
of food stuffs must be plentiful but not over abun-
dant. A certain amount of effort and strife is neces-
sary for physical development. This may also be
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
true of mental development ; but here there must be
an incentive.
While it is true that life represents and constitutes
a constant struggle for the betterment of the
organism-this struggle must result in some measure
of victory, however slight if the organism is to per-
sist and develop. The saying " favorable condi-
tions '' sounds cheap and empty; but when you
begin to dip into it, it essentially means a great
deal~~
Take the Jew in Russia. He was forced to live under
the most unfavorable conditions. The struggle was
so great, so terrific, it left no surplus energy for
advancement. In Russia, under those conditions
that were practically in a dormant state as far as
development and progress were concerned; they had
nevertheless culture of the ages behind them. They
were descendants of a culture older than that of
the Egyptians : representing a civilization that had
attained a very high and exalted level when Europe
was still inhabited by barbaric tribes: the imme-
diate descendants of the primitive man. Now these
people were able to maintain this dormant state for
many hundreds of years. But whenever opportunity
presents itself and development and advancement
are offered, they show results, that are frequently
amazing. Poor emigrants landing in this country
apparently of the lowest types, uneducated and
uncultured, produce no less than one generation of
offspring of the highest mental attainments; and
frequently they will produce leaders in many fields
88 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
of human activity. The explanation is not far to
seek, for, while the immediate forbears of these
men of genius in finance, science, or art and music,
as well, were apparently ignorant and without
culture ; they were nevertheless descendants of our
highest cultural development.
And so we find that when conditions are favorable
in the physical world we have a variety of results
that is astounding. And when we think of the
physical we generally think of the antithesis, the
spiritual. If these conditions affect the physical in
so great a degree think how very important and
moving must be that force upon our lives which
comes from the stars and is not of the earth, earthy.
The key to the proper understanding and solution
of all of this is in the New Astrology. There and
there alone will you find it.
In presenting a basis for self-analysis in a recent
talk I evaluated a list of characteristics, the basis
of which could be arrived at by a summation of
individual values-leading to a general appraise-
ment of the individual.
I presented this means of self-analysis to explain
that in a general way the same knowledge of self
that is revealed through the New Astrology may
be attained through other means, though neces-
sarily less comprehensive; because of the personal
equation involved in arriving at the result. The
analysis indicated the advisability of strengthening
particular weak points; and that thosej_apparent
shortcomings could be corrected by a very definite
/
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
course of procedure. I selected " punctuality "
as an example, but also explained that other factors,
such as diligence, perseverance, and honesty, could
be developed or perfected by the same means. If you
do not believe that this law is productive of definite
results, just follow out this method of procedure
for one day. I refer to a force that has been known
to man since the early days of Astrology, but which
unfortunately has received little or no attention in
the field of guidance for personal development.
You may fulfil your round of duties in the direct
or reflex way; but I refer essentially to the influence
of the mind in assisting in bringing about the
realization of our aspirations or desires through
conscious direction. The law of consciousness
abides s. s.
If you feel that there is no room for improvement
in this direction, you may modify the experiment to
apply to some specific incident involving the keep-
ing of an appointment. It is alike your interest
and mine to use for yourself the practical example
which I am advancing, and to prove to you tliat
the secret of success and fortune really lies in your
own hands. You can make your life just what you
wish it to be ... every mind is an individual class-
ification as it is you yourself that have made this
classification. If your individual mind has proven
to be one of uncommon quality, you impose your
classification on other men. Remember that great
men are only so by comparison; because mankind
is willing to permit a few to shine brilliantly above
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
the rest. Then this handful of beings and their
ideas become the motivating power behind com-
merce, behind industry, behind finance, behind
nations and ultimately behind you as an individual.
In order to have universal peace, we must have
individual harmony, for nothing can sway me from
the belief that every man is a lover of truth, regard-
less of how that truth is arrived at, or how poorly
it is expressed. There is no absolute malignity in
nature. You no doubt are questioning yourself as
to what part you play in this great universal scheme
and just what influence you in your humble way
may bring to bear in the realization of world peace.
Those who have tried the experiment on punctual-
ity have marveled at its revelation; and therefore
I wish to tell you that analogically the same
method of procedure can bring about national peace
if it is desired. It is simple: it is shorn of all emotion-
al fluff, but it produces results and that is what
everyone is seeking - beneficial results from daily
activities. I can give you a practical demonstration
by the electric light. We know its result. We do not
know the nature of electricity, but we do know that
by turning on a switch we receive light as a result.
It may require further explanation for you to under-
stand that a force which is in your daily life
through conscious direction, can be used to bring
about world peace. (You are realizing in the home,
in business, in your personal actions, in poli,tics, in
government, the result of your strivings, your aspira-
tions; whether they are conscious or unconscious.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 91
We know that life itself is profound, but who shall
be our interpreter and what shall be the interpre-
tation?-that has been the question, and through
the New Astrology we find the key to the situation.
Through it you may know just what your natural
aptitudes and abilities fit you for. Through the
correct delineation of a horoscope this is possible;
and the creed of the future will be '' I know,''
and that '' know '' will stand for '' I know my-
self.'' Everyone is largely ruled by habit, and
habit is merely a form of exercise. Up to a certain
point exercise means increased strength; and that
you can rectify and strengthen into useful com-
ponent parts, by knowing just where there is a
weakness and, in the correction, just how to pursue
your aspirations. If life consists of action and
reaction, why not mould these actions so that in
reacting, your results will be the kind you would
like to see? In so many letters that I receive the
individual complains that the responsibilities thrust
upon him have been overbearing. This is an accepted
idea and merely proves my philosophy that indi-
viduals are constantly reacting to suggestions.
Daily contact with my work leads me to believe
that people who have shouldered responsibilities,
regardless of what the nature of them has been;
stand a very much better chance in the world race
than those who have everything provided for
them. The acceptance of the responsibility of caring
for yourself and knowing yourself; your idiosyn-
cracies and attempting to overcome them, is a
92 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
necessary factor in your evolution : and, to make
yourself exempt from the practical world-the
world that gives the lessons of experience-is to
run the risk of hampering your progress.
If the kind godmother of the fairy tale were to
appear before us and grant us two wishes, most of
us would choose success and happiness. Men spend
their lives in constant quest of these ends. A
fortunate few find the right path early, and con-
tentment is theirs. But many more wander about
in a maze, glimpsing the goal afar off, yet unable
to reach it. Obstacles spring up everywhere, re-
tarding hope and thwarting ambition. Fate seems
to laugh sardonically as she deals out one bitter
experience after another; all of which can be
overcome through understanding made possible
through a delineation of the horoscope.
ADDENDA
r.ni~':n'J~~HE following columns contain a list
of great men who have studied and
practiced Astrology, and have set
their seal of approval on all that this
great science contains.
~~~>S~ The names in the list just to follow
appear m the centuries before the Christian era:
Mercurius
Zoroaster
Pythagoras
Hippocrates
Thales
Aristotle
Cicero
Trismegistus
Socrates
Galen
Claudius Ptolemy,
Prince of the Science
Josephus
Polydorus
Virgil
A galaxy of noble names-the greatest of thinkers,
names that will never die, but have new meaning
to each generation in the world's history. Such is
the following that Astrology had in the Ancient,
Classical World.
The list of names below is a compendium of the
great thinkers and men of note in the Christian
era. All of them have made some definite contribu-
tion to.the uplift of :r.:fan; ai;id stand out as great
figures in their respective period.
94 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
Albumazer. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 844
Roger Bacon . . . . . . .. .. . ... .. . . . . . . . . . . . ... 12.80
Guido Bonatus . . ... . . . .. ... . . . . . . ... .... .. 12.84
Christopher Columbus . . . . ... . .... .. .. . . . .. 1446
Henry Cornelius Agrippa . . ... .. . ....... . . . .1486
Philip Melanchton . . . . . . . . . ... . . ..... .... . .1497
Jerome Cardan .. ... . .... .. . . . . .. . .... .. ... 1501
Tycho Brahe .. .. . . .. . . ... . .. .. ... . .. . .. . .. 1546
Erasmus Rhianholdus . . .. . . . . ... .. . . . . . . .. .1551
Michael Nostradamus . .. . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . .... 1553
Christopher Heyden, ... .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. .. . .1561
Lord Francis Bacon ... .. . . .. .. . . . ..... . .. .. 1561
Galileo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .. . .. . . . . . ... . . .. l 564
Bishop Robert Hall . . ... . .. .. . ..... . .. .. .. .1574
James Usher, ... . .. . . . . ... . .. . ... .... . . . . . .1580
Malmsbaria Hobbs .. . . . ... . .. .. . . . .. . .. . .. 1588
John Booker ...... ... . .. . ...... .. . . . . . . . . .1601
John Henderson . . ... . . . . .. ... . . . .... . ..... 1602.
William Lilly . . .... .. . . . . .. .... . .. . . .. .. . .1602.
John Milton . . . . . . .. . . .... .. . . ... .. .. .. . . .1608
Earl George Digby, . ... .. . . ... . .. .. . . .. .. . .1612.
Nicholas Culpepper . . . .. . . . . .. . .. . .. . .. .. .. 16!6
Mercator . . . . . . .. .. . . . . ..... . .... . . ..... . .162.o
Robert Turner . . . . . . ... . .. . .. ... . . . . . . ..... 162.6
John Dryden . . .. .. . ... .. . .. ... . .. ..... . . .. 1631
John Partridge .. . . .. .. .. .. . ... . ....... .. .. 1644
George Parker . . . . .... . .... .. .. .. . . .. . . . . . .1654
Richard Steele . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. l 672.
George Witchell .. . . ... ... . . .. . ... . .. .. . .. .172.8
William Pitt . . ... .. . . .... ... .. . . . . . . .. ... .1759
Dr. William Salmon . .. . ... ...... .... . ... . .1759
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 95
To these may be added, Gaffarel, the French author
of " Unheard-of Curiosities," and many others.
The name of the present day list is ·· legion.'' These
men have studied and examined Astrology; and we
feel that through them we are made to feel the
universal need of this great science.
As the figures pertaining to the readings in Astrol-
ogy are symbolical-in the closing pages ofmy work
I shall conclude with a series of symbolic questions
with their respective answers. In the culminating
poem which is the final expression in this book; we
find material and thought which are as old as time:
and as meaningful as eternity itself, the goal which
we have been seeking to reach through the proper
understanding of Astrology-the key to our happi-
ness and well being.
" New stars appear and others disappear on the
sky. New ideas appear on the mental horizon, and
old ideas are lost. If a new comet appears on the
sky it fills the hearts of the ignorant with terror;
if a new and grand idea appears on the mental
horizon it creates fear in the camp of those that
cling to old and accepted forms. . . . . ."
" Hail may destroy the fruits of the earth: evil
planetary influences may be attracted by the soul
of the earth and cause epidemic diseases, and the
spiritual center in man may be devoid of wisdom,
and darkness rule in its place. The earth, the
animal kingdom, and physical man are subject to
the government of the stars; but the spiritual man
rules over the stars and over the elements, and con-
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
quers the world without and the world within, by
the wisdom that comes from God. Stones, plants
and animals obey the government of the mind, and
man should obey the will and wisdom of God. The
individual Terrestrial life should correspond to
the laws governing the universe: Man's spiritual
aspirations should be directed to harmonize with
the wisdom of God. If this is attained, the inner
consciousness will awaken to an understanding
of the influences of the stars, and the mysteries of
Nature will be revealed to his spiritual percep-
tion' ·- Paracelsus.
A MASONIC ALLEGORY
" The Death of the Sun "
When down the zodiacal arch
The summer sun resumes his march,
Descending from the summit high
With eager steps he hastens hy
The " Lordly Lion " of July,
And clasps the virgin in his arms.
Through all the golden August days
The sun the ardent lover plays,
A captive to her dazzling charms.
But when the harvest time is o'er,
When ga~hered grapes perfume the air
And ruddy wine begins to pour,
The god resumes his way once moreJ·
And weeping in her wild despair,
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
He leaves the royal virgin there.
What cares he now for Virgo's woes,
With scornful step, until, at last,
The equinoctial gate is passed.
Two misty columns black with storms.
While overhead there hangs between
A lut"id thunder cloud, which forms
The frowning archway of the gate~·
The gloomy equinoctial gate,
An evil place jot" travelet"s late,
Whet"e envious Libt"a lurks unseen~·
And near the portal lies in wait
September, filled with deadly hate.
With stately step the god draws nigh,
Yet such is his majestic mien,
That whether he shall strike or fly,
The trembling ruffian hardly knows,
As Phoebus through the gateway goes.
But as the shining form came near,
The wretch's hate subdued his fear,
And, nerving up his arm at length,
He aimed a blow with all his strength
Full at the god as he went by.
In anger Phoebus turned his head~·
Away the trembling coward fled.
The god, though smarting with the blow,
Disdains to follow up his foe~·
97
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
And down the zodiacal path
Pursues his gloomy way in wrath.
PART II
Still blacker turn the Autumn skies,
Artd red Antares, evil star,
Points out the place, more fatal far,
Where October ambushed lies,
The sun, as if he scorned his foes,
In pride and glory onward goes.
Not he from deadly Scorpio flies,
Nor pauses he, nor backward turns
Though redder yet Antares burns,
And darker yet his pathway grows.
Meanwhile October, from his lair-,
On Phoebus rushes unaware,
His murderous purpose now confessed,
And smites the sun-god in the breast.
A ghastly wound the villain makes .
With horrid joy his weapon shakes;
And, as he sees the god depart,
His hand upon his bosom pressed,
Believes the blow has reached the heart.
Along his way the sun-god goes,
Unmindful where the path may lead,
While from his breast the life-blood flows,
The clouds around him gather now,
The crown of light fades from his brow
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
And soon, advancing 'mid the night,
The archer on his pallid steed,
With bended bow, appears in sight.
November, bolder than the rest,
Hides not behind the gloomy west;
But, striding right across the path,
Defies the god and scarns his wrath
And raising high his frowning crest,
Their haughty words to him addressed:
"September and October, both,
You have escaped and still surviveJ·
But I have .J;Worn a deadly oath,
By me you can not pass alive.
That which I promise I perform,
For I am He who, 'mid the storm,
Rides on the palli?lhorste of death."
While even thus the specte.r spoke,
He drew his arrow to the head . . .
The god received the fatal stroke,
And at the Archer's feet fell dead.
Soon as the Sun's expiring breath
Had vanished in the ether dim,
And looking up, not a word he saith,
But o'er the dead doth gently throw
A spangled winding sheet of snow.
99
SOME CLASSICAL REFERENCES
IN ASTROLOGY
CHAUCER:
MILTON:
Wrote a treatise.on the Astrolabe.
Constantly referred in his works to planet-
ary influence.
SHAKESPEARE:
In " King Lear " Gloucester and Edmund
represent respectively the old and new
faith. The world's greatest poet was a
believer in Astrology, so far as realizing
certain influences of the planets and stars
in portending Pestilence and National
visitations.
" 0 malignant and ill-boding stars! Now
thou art come unto a feast of death."-
Henry VI.
11
We make guilty of our disasters, the
Sun, Moon and Stars.' '-King Lear.
·' It is the stars, the stars above us, govern
our conditions."-King Lear.
'' There was a star danced, and under that
I was born. "-Much Ado About Nothing.
"Thus pour the stars down plagues."-
Love's Labors Lost.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM IOI
'' You were born under a charitable star-
Mars. ''-All's Well That Ends Well.
"My mind misgives some consequence
yet hanging in the stars. ''-Romeo and
Juliet.
'' Some say that ever against that season
comes,
Wherein our Savior's birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long :
And then they say no spirit dare stir abroad;
The nights are wholesome;
Then no planets strike. Ha! "-Hamlet.
And so the list is endless, and the references are
many Astrology is a factor the·force of which is
felt through the ages and it is expressed in many
ways~~
In an essay on Astrology, usually ascribed to
Lucian, we find that he is very sceptical in one way;
since he denies the literal truth of various Greek
myths and gives an astrological interpretation of
them, as in the case of Zeus and Kronos and the
so-called adultery of Mars. This is not inconsistent
with Lucian's ridicule of the anthropomorphic
Olympian divinities. What Orpheus taught the
Greeks was Astrology, the planets being signi-
fied by the seven strings of his lyre. Tiresias taught
them further to distinguish which stars were
masculine . . . . . Bellerophon soared to the sky-
not on a horse but by the scientific power of his
mind. Daedalus taught Icarus Astrology, and the
102 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
fable of Phaeton is to be similarly interpreted.
Aeneas was not really the son of the goddess Venus,
nor Minos of Jupiter, nor Aesculapius of Mars, nor
Autolycus of Mercury. These are to be taken simply
as the planets under whose rule they were born.
The author also connects Egyptian animal worship
with the signs of the Zodiac.
He also delves into the history of Astrology, to
which he assigns a high antiquity. The Ethiopians
were the first to cultivate it, and handed it on in a
still imperfect stage to the Egyptians who fully
developed it. The Babylonians claim to have studied
it before other people, but our author thinks that
they did so long after the Ethiopians and Egyp-
tians. The Greeks were instructed in the art neither
by the Ethiopians nor the Egyptians, but as we
have seen by Orpheus. Our author not only states
that the ancient Greeks never built towns or walls
or got married, without first resorting to divina-
tion; but that the Pythia at Delphi was a type of
celestial purity and that the snake under the
tripod represented the dragon among the constella-
tions. Thus we have convincing and close reference
as contributed by antiquity and from classic sources
which is very valuable.
-BIBLIOGRAPHY-SOME
TABLES-DATES
~~~6il?.~ OFFER the following readings in
Astrology for those of my readers
who wish a further development and
study of the subject. They have been
culled from a large list of books on
=--="""""~........~the subject and offer a wide variety
of treatment.
" CosmologyorUniversal Science, " Franz Hartman
·' History of Herodotus '' Isaac Littlebury
" Rivers of ·Life " Forlong
:· The Predicted Plague " Hippocrates, Jr.
·· Theories of Macrocosms and
Microcosms,''
·' Astrology Theologizes ''
'· The Zodiac ''
" Key to the Universe "
Conger
A. B. Kingsford
Coryn
Curtis
"Astrology and Religion Among the
Greeks and Romans, ''
'' Celtic Druids ''
"Science of Comparative Religions"
·· Through the Stars to Success '' .
Any Astrological books written by
Cumont
Higgins
Forlong
Belle Bart
Alan Leo
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
"Twenty-four Lessons in the New Astrology"-
Belle Bart. A complete study.
I wish to express gratefully my indebtedness for
the use of material and references used in this book,
in the Addenda. To these m~n I express my thanks.
Proctor, Richard A.
·' The Great Pyramid,'' p. 312. From the
Chapter on Astrology.
Hartman, Franz
" Paracelsus, "-Selections.
Higgins, G.
·· Anacalypsis, "special reference.
PERSONAL OBSERVATIONS
IMPERSONALLY
OBSERVED
Belle Bart, noted Astrologer, reading the horoscope of
Joseph Caillaux-French Minister of Finance in his
chamber in the Louvre, Paris, France, August I92f.
Copy from the Rocogra.vurc , New York Times
,RAD I 0 Ci R A M
WORLD WIDE WIREL-E:SS
~........~-~~-·~~'\"l'~~·~1r ~
w-....--coHTINl!-HT ... ~ ... - SHIP---...... ~....-- SHIP....-...-....-w
..~.. RADIO CORPORATIONOFA~EAICA M~..
;:-CEI-;,;~ AT 64 BROAD STREET. N£W YORK, AT_ _ _... OA~ SEP 22 ~ 12 ~---
CM HG CW294 RIJll O
SS·PAR IS rGG VIA RCNEWYORI< 21
&LLE BART AMER ICAN ACA~UY Of •STROlOGY
T\IOHUll!lllED \\!:.ST flfUSEYENT1' $TREET NEWYORl
APPOINTMENT f IXED FRENCH EMBASSY WASHINGTON TllURSDAY NEXT EL£VEN
JOSEPH-CAILLAUX
PERSONAL OBSERVATIONS
IMPERSONALLY OBSERVED
HERE are those who believe and feel
that they have an inferiority or
superiority complex, and there are
likewise those who do not know
that they are possessed of one or both
of these urges of vital expression.
Man can not be and is not born into Grade " A."
A distinction of classes as a topic for conversation,
and for wielders of the pen is as age-worn as reli-
gious and political discussions and beliefs. In this
present era where social contacts conflict and co-
ordination is paramount, this is not an untimely
personal opinion. That it may be indelibly impress-
ed upon your mind, a repetition is acceptable to
you: man can not be and is not born into Grade
·· A.' ' Like milk, he is separated from bulk, skim-
med, pasteurized, analyzed; and then classified.
(Man is gergarious-born with the }:ierd instinct.
Contact, environment, heredity, ambition, self-
knowledge, conduct, habit, behavior, wisdom and
the understanding of the use of these dominant
factors, characterize his classification. There are
three groups ranging from Grade ·· A '' to Grade
108 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
•• C. '' The highest grade into which man is born
is Grade '· B.'' Progress, not chance, or that mis-
nomer " luck " rewards him with award of the
" cream " title " A." Close inspection (and it is
worth the time) will reveal to you that this grading
of individuals is at least entitled to consideration.
Probably some Boswell of this era may be energized
with the thought revealed in this writing. If so,
it will not have been in vain. You do not require
an academic training to grade the individuals you
come into contact with.
Grade " B " requires more than personal culture;
more than enviable heredity; more than the bene-
ficial influences endowed upon people because of
racial characteristics; more than a knowledge of
your aptitudes and abilities; more than a feeling
of benevolence; more than an academic training;
more than the belief in an " ism "-it requires a
desire to advance through the use of all dormant
faculties cognizant only through self-knowledge
into that enviable almost unobtainable class called
Grade " A." Some people have not the classifica-
tions for meeting the requisite demand of this
grade. Some others have not the qualifications
rightfully entitling them to a settling contact with
Grade" B;" but all have the natural qualifications
fitting them· for Grade " C;" a similarity of en-
dowments placed upon them through that organic
metamorphosis called birth. Nine-tenths of the
inhabitants of this sphere-and this statement is
made advisedly-are either unhappy or discontent-
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
ed. Happiness is a personal haven. The act of being
discontent is a state of emotion common to and
possible to all. Qualifications in either class are
therefore not determinable by introspection. The
other tenth ·is so associated with life as to cause
indifference to the state of being unhappy or dis-
contented ~ ~
You will realize many scientific facts, one which is
alchemic in base, that you can not make cream with
buttermilk: that both are but natural constituents
of the same fundamental. The more adjacent your
.thought to the knowledge of self-position, that
of certain characteristics, aptitudes, and abilities
awaiting development-the sooner you realize a
successful goal-and the greater that goal.
A classification of self-analysis will stimulate in
you a desire for reaching the goal-Grade '' A.''
The mere fact that you are reading what is express-
ed to you in these pages proves conclusively-un-
consciously, perhaps-that there is somewhere a
desire, however latent it may be. Whether your
position is that of executive superior, amanuensis,
servor or servee, banker, the President of a country,
the Governor's lady, or the housemaid, you can
not disguise your grade. No position recognizes
class distinction, but classes recognize position.
You do not require a striving for advancement in
life if you think the survey of your life does not
warrant it; that is, if you are satisfied, you are
marking time with that apparition called death. If
you are unsatisfied with your lot in life, if you are
IIO THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
in a blind alley job, or in a groove-socially,
politically, economically, or what-not, you are
still marking time with the apparition. That is
the end to which all/omp, honor, glory, disgrace,
sorrow and so-calle unhappiness and discontent
must eventually lead you. Only in this phenomena
are we all in Grade '' A.'' But it is your duty to
leave it to your highest qualifications and to make
the fullest use of your abilities. Men die equally.
Men are not born equal.
Notwithstanding all arguments to the contrary
nature has produced nothing finer, nobler, greater;
more fully equipped to meet the vicissitudes of
life than man in the mineral, vegetable and animal
kingdom. He rules supreme.
Your equality with your next door neighbor with
which nature has presented you can be only a
similarity of physical anatomical construction;
provided that you had not been wanting an award
with an impediment. If you had been handicapped
or blessed with such a failing, there is little doubt
but that on some other plane you have failed to
make the grade. You have been given a new chance,
a new opportunity, in this life with which to
begin again and make another attempt. Do not
career to meet that apparition, death, without
manifesting at least an unquenchable nerve, for
who knows you may be one of the chosen ones;
you may even make Grade "A.."
Close inspection of a chance passing individual,
often reveals a type of person equally fitted for
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM III
Grade " C." No possible culture, no superficial
training, no moulding, casting, contact or activity
can in any way fit that individual for Grade " B."
He just has not the qualifications. Try as you will,
he remains in Grade " C, "-perhaps by some
Divine Law awaiting his chance on some other
plane. The only compensation that the Grade
'' B's '' have (and I know that readers of these lines
have classed themselves as such) for living with
the mediocre or so-called Grade " C "-is that
they are in the first line trenches awaiting promo-
tion, provided that they have learned to live with-
out the things that they can not get. This is only
so because they have accepted the thought that
they can not, which is erroneous. One can achieve
anything which he desires; but the thought must
be fostered first and then the act will immediately
follow. Nothing humanly conceivable or utterable
is beyond human grasp, and no thought ever
harbored by human mind can not be put into
activity. You may offer an apology as to environ-
ment, opportunity, possibility, limitations-all
which is but an excuse to shield your shortcomings.
It is self-knowledge that will clear the road upon
which the few may trespass into that desirable
realm called Grade " A." Knowledge is power.
Alea jacta est.
SOME
INTERESTING HOROSCOPES
WITH
DELINEATIONS
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
ELIZABETH
Queen of England
Upon the ascendant we find the
regal sign Sagittarius, with Jupiter,
its lord, located therein; which
declares the native to inherit a most
masculine and intrepid spirit, a
poignant wit, and undaunted reso-
lution; qualities which are greatly
heightened by the degree ascending
being in the dignities of the planet
Mars.
In the twenty-first year of her age,
she was oppressed and imprisoned,
and suffered every species of perse-
cution that could result from the
vindictive jealousy and resentment
of her enemies. During these
troubles, she had operating a most
malefic direction of Saturn to the
quartile of the Sun, in the ninth
house, which exactly describes the
cause for which she was persecuted;
namely, her hereditary right to the
crown, and her attachment to the
protestant religion.
When this illustrious princess at-
tained her twenty-fifth year, she
triumphed over her domestic ene-
mies, and was crowned Queen of
England. At this time the ascendant
was directed to a trine aspect of
the Sun, who is the patron of hon•
our and sovereignty.
In the sixty-ninth year of her age,
this celebrated princess made her
exit, under the mortal direction of
the ascendant to the quartile aspect
of the Sun; leaving posterity to
record the blessings of her reign, in
which were laid the solid founda-
tions of the protestant establish-
ment.
AGRIPPA
The nativity of Cornelius Agrippa,
as handed to us from the ancients
was an uncommon character, to the
contemplation of those, who may
hereafter rise to greater perfection
in astrological enquiries.
n6 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
NERO CAESAR
This native is usually denominated
Bloody Nero; and indeed, if we but
cast our eyes upon the horoscope
of his birth, we shall find aml?le
demonstrations of a cruel and vm-
dictive disposition. Mars is opposite
to Jupiter and Venus in the twelfth
house, an aspect of noxious and
direful tendency. Neptune, we find,
is lord of the tenth, and consequent-
ly significator of the native's
mother. Mercury is lord of the
ascendant, in exact quartile of the
Moon, which is an obvious proof
that the native should cruelly treat
and abuse his mother; and, as Nep-
tune is at the same time in aspect of
Mars, it is a probable argument
that he would become a murderer.
The quartile of the Sun and Saturn
is a configuration productive of
every vicious inclination, and of
every atrocious crime. Under the
influence of this malignant direc-
tion, which held for a considerable
length of time, he not only became
hated by the people under his
government; but exercised those
bloody and unparalleled cruelties
that darken and disgrace the annals
of his reign.
ERASMUS
of Rotterdam, in Holland
In this nativity we find Mercury
and Venus posited in the ascendant;
a proof of volubility and freedom of
speech: and being also in an airy
sign, beheld by a benefic trine of
Jupiter from the ninth house,
declares the native to be a person of
strong natural talents, and rich men-
tal endowments.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM II7
OLIVER CROMWELL
Lord High Protector of England
In the nativity of this enterprising
and extraordinary character, we
find six planets essentially fortified,
and four of them in friendly trine
to each other, with the luminaries
and Jupiter in sextile. The profes-
sors of this art, both ancient and
modern agree, that, where only
three planets are found essentially
dignified in a nativity, it is an
earnest of singular prosperity and
good fortune to the native. Where
six testimonies of the same nature
occur, it is an evident proof that
the person born under their influence
will eclipse all his co-temporaries in
his advancement to glory and fame.
How far this was verified in the
person of Oliver Cromwell, when
the humble situation of himself
and his ancestors is considered, we
shall leave to the decision of the
candid and intelligent reader.
WM. LAUD
Archbishop of Canterbury
Libra ascends the eastern horison of
this nativity, which is a sign of
justice and mercy. To show that
the native would be learned and
pious, there are several stars of the
nature ofJupiter and Mars culminat-
ing, which m many horoscopes have
been found to raise the native even
from the lowest degree in the
church to the highest honours and
preferments of ecclesiastical juris-
diction and authority.
This illustrious native was not
without his share of private ene-
mies, who used every means to
alienate the king"s good opinion
and favour towards him. But vain
was the attempt; for, where the
heavens form a unity of sentiment,
it is beyond the subtlety of human
invention to dissolve it.
In the year r62.8, on the 2.3rd of
August, this native, being near
n8 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
thirty-six /ears old, was basely
assassinate . The Moon was that
day in quartile of the ascendant at
birth, and the sun in the radical
place of Mars; and in the revolu-
tional figure for that year, the Moon
was in exact quartile of Mars and
Jupiter.
MARCUS TULLIUS CICERO
Bum undtr the Latitude of Rome
We cannot question the time of
this celebrated native"s birth. The
figure exactly corresponds with the
description of his l?erson given us
by Plutarch, which ts that of a lean,
weak, and sickly temperament and
constitution; which is aptly enough
declared by the Moon in Capricorn.
Plutarch tells us, that Cicero's nurse
was admonished by an astrologer
to bestow the utmost care and atten-
tion upon the child then at her
breast; for that he should become
the most distinguished character
amongst all the Romans; and yet
he was but the son of a bond-woman
and of mean extract. He died by
assassination in the sixty-fourth
year of his age, having suffered the
chief misfortunes of his life in his
grand climacterical year as prog-
nosticated by the astrologer.
MARTIN LUTHER
The nativity of this celebrated
divine is remarkable for having so
many planets located in the ninth
house. Saturn and Mercury are in
conjunction, in the sign Scorpio,
which afford a striking presage of
the zeal and perseverance of his
mind; while the five planets in the
ninth house declare his success in
religious controversy.
CHAPTER v
YOUR FUTURE
GIVING YOUR PLANETARY ·
CONDITIONS UP TO
THE YEAR
1 933
Harris &.Ewing
· CAILLAUX LOOKS TO THE STARS FOR HELP
Miss Belle Bart, horo.scope reader of New York, with the
head of the French debt commission at the French Embassy,
where she was summoned yesterday. In August she read
M. Gaillaux's horoscope in Paris, and advised his com-
ing to America when he was undecided. On his arrival
here he requested her aid a second time.
- N reading the following planetary
conditions affecting you throughout
the year you may find that you come
under the influence of more than
{~~~~!~ one planet at the same time during
@ a period of months. For example,
you may be having a very successful period of
months under Saturn which may influence your
business relations and bring you an increase in your
work; but at the same time you may have an un-
favorable Jupiter period which will cause you
difficulties in your home. One planetary vibration
is not relative to the other one, but each effect of
the planets according to their nature would in-
fluence you at the same time if the book so indicated
for you. On the other hand, you may have a period
where your finances are on the increase, but your
health under a Mars influence may be affected.
One planetary aspect may be adversely influencing
your affairs and the other may be of a favorable
nature. These planetary indications are not con-
flicting for should you have ·more than one favor-
able influence, your conditions will be emphatically
good. If one planet's influence is adverse and the
other planet is favorable, the good conditions under
which you are careering will not mitigate the
unfavorable ones.
122 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
The purpose of the New Astrology, as advocated
successfully by me, is to act as a danger signal
pointing out the pitfalls as you daily travel through
life. By understanding your planetary future you
are in a position to overcome the vicissitudes of
life to your best advantage for success.
THE AUTHOR
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
lF y OU WERE BORN BETWEEN MARCH 2IST AND APRIL 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THis is a favorable influence in your life. You may
have greater strength of character during this
time. You may receive recognition in some way
from those who are in authority, or you may have
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
honor and preferment shown you. It is a favorable IgzS
time for dealing with the public. Speculations may September
bring you quick results. It does not mean, however,
that you should rush to take chances simply be-
because of this aspect. If you are, however, taking
risks in financial matters, you may have some
beneficial results. Foreign affairs may interest you
to advantage. Should you have litigation of any
kind, you may have some benefit through it.
Writings and dealings with publishers or the sign-
ing of contracts may ultimately bring you added
popularity and gain. You are now less likely to
I929
January, February,
March, June,
July, December
I9JO
March, August,
November,
December
meet with opposition from those with whom you I9JI
are connected than at other times. If you are Jan~ary, February,
married, you should experience better under- April, May, June,
standing in your home life, and where there are ~ovemter,
children, you may have some added pleasure ) ecem er
through them. Business affairs prosper, but as I9J2
Mars is of quick action, make the most of any February, July,
project that may arise. This is not the time to August, October,
hesitate, but essentially the time to do. November
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MARCH 21sT AND APRIL 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
r928
June
r929
September, October
r930
January, February,
May, June,
September, October
r931
March, August,
September
r932
January, May,
September
You should at this time be circumspect in all your
dealings with people, especially those who are
in any way in a position to be classed as superiors,
or who exercise authority over you. It may seem
to you as though unfairness and injustice are being
brought to bear, but as this is but a passing in-
fluence and as you are likely to be greatly per-
turbed over even the smallest detail, do not place
too much stress upon it. You may experience dis-
appointment, and Mars in some way may tend to
make this a trying and disagreeable time for you.
You may have domestic troubles or estrangements
and disappointments through those closely con-
nected with you. Any undertakings or engage-
ments into which you may enter during this as-
pect may not bring you the desired return, so avoid
being impulsive. It is not a favorable time in
which to make changes or to have dealings with
other people or to allow your feelings to enter into
your affairs in any way. Do not in any manner
jeopardize your safety, as you are now under very
quarrelsome and combative vibrations. It is not a
favorable influence under which to plan or take
journeys, as you may be limited through them in
some manner. Love affairs may cause you anxiety
and difficulty and financial conditions may prove
to be a source of irritation to you. Control your
desires and await more favorable influences under
which to further any affairs that are of importance.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MARCH 2.1sT AND APruL 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THIS is a propitious period in your life for the
carrying out of any/rojects dealing with financial
interests. Your min will be active, with a clearer
insight into the affairs with which you may at
this time be concerned. You may receive the help
of friends, enabling you to carry out your ideas,
with less of the struggle encountered at other
periods. Your mind will be keen and you will have
more confidence in your ability to do the best in
you. Do not refrain from furthering your plans.
Ask favors of those whom you think will or can
aid you materially. Your judgment is at its best,
but it depends upon you to achieve. Your financial
status may be greatly improved and you may
receive benefit unexpectedly through channels not
ordinarily associated with your money affairs.
Your tendencies toward social activity will become
greatly enhanced and you should take advantage
of every opportunity to enlarge your circle of
friendships, for unexpected opportunity may arise
through contacts of this sort. Your health will be
better and a keener sense of the joy of living will
manifest itself. This is an era conducive to romance
and possible marriage in your life. A better under-
standing between those in whom the love interest
is uppermost may be expected and marriage, if
possible, accrue as a result. If you are married,
better conditions and congeniality will tend to
make life worth while. Do not permit this period
to pass without some definite effort on your part
to improve your conditions. Business affairs will
tend to prosper and if interested in speculation,
your judgment will enable you to gain materially.
Some beneficial journey may be taken, bringing
new business interests and friends. If you are
associated with organizations or politics, you
may have some honor conferred upon you.
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
I928
May
I929
From July to
December
I9JO
January to June
I9JI
August to
December
I932
January to August
Il.6 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BORN BETWEEN MARCH l.IST AND APRIL l.OTH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
r930
July to December
r93r
January to July
You may be subject during this period to many
financial and personal difficulties. You should not
attempt new projects of importance as the time is
not ripe for success, unless Saturn is in friendly
vibration in which case you may still experience
financial problems. You may attract people of
great prominence to you at this time but you need
not expect any startling results through them.
You are very likely to be over extravagant and
waste your material. You are prone to financial
losses and should you gain through partnerships
you may have difficulty in obtaining it or litiga-
tion through it. You may at this time take peculiar
views about personal relationships and may be
very narrow through this attitude in your activi-
ties. Unless Saturn is also in aspect, this is not the
time to try and force your ambitions into comple-
tion as obstacles may confront you. You may be
separated from or lose someone very near and dear
to you. You are very likely to have misunderstand-
. ings through friends. Men at the head of affairs
will be prominent in your life at this time, but no
immediate help can be expected. Delays and pro-
mises usually follow. You may suffer through the
actions of others, so beware of any financial pro-
positions made to you during this vibration. You
may at this time find your circulation in a very
depleted condition, and you should favor yourself
as much as possible. The condition of the general
system is apt to need a.lubrication. The kidneys
and heart are particularly susceptible to annoy-
ance.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MARCH 2.1sT AND APRIL 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THIS is a time when the greatest caution must be
exercised in all your contacts as well as with any
activities in which you may be interested. You
will be more magnetic and energetic and unless
you wisely distribute your forces it may tend to
bring upsets and difficulties. The unexpected is
likely to occur and peculiar people contact you
where the motive may not be entirely clear to you,
and unless you refrain from hasty actions and
judgments you are likely to cause yourself trials
and obstacles. Hesitate, before signing any docu-
ments and question any new friendships which
may enter into your life. In other words, take
nothing for granted. It is very likely that some up-
set may make itself felt in your personal affairs,
particularly in your home and social attachments.
It may bring you a romance which unless you are
circumspect may keep you constantly in difficul-
ties. Your imagination and creative powers are
now at the highest point and in any work requiring
this element you may do the original and bring
gain. It however is essential that you keep your
equilibrium and rest more than at any other time.
Your nervous system under this influence is very
apt to be at high tension and you may find a senti-
ment of intolerance manifesting itself and unless
you are careful you may break up some very desir-
able ties. In business interests the unexpected will
occur and should you have an influence of Jupiter
operating at the same time it may prove a period
of great affluence but requiring caution in manage-
ment. This vibration seldom passes without
leaving some imprint on the social and romantic
side of life.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
From z928 through
z932
128 THE HE.AVENS PROCLAIM
lF y OU WERE BORN BETWEEN MARCH 2.IST .AND APRIL 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
z928
All year
z929
January to March;
June to November
z932
March to August;
December
Tms is a period when you may begin to inaugurate
any plans which may make themselves felt. It is
a time when business opportunities and changes
in occupation may be maae. While the beneficial
result of such interests may not be forthcoming
immediately, yet you have begun under favorable
planetary influences. Financial matters are no
longer restricted and it is the time to purchase any
real property or to transact any negotiations
bearing upon such issues. Your judgment will be
better and in every way your contacts will be con-
structive. Should you at this time have a joint
aspect of Uranus it may bring some temporary
upset in plans but Jupiter also would aid you in
overcoming any difficulties. You may find unusual
contacts with older people particularly in business
associations and gains are likely to accrue you
from such friendships. A new mental interest may
assert itself and you will begin to find the philo-
sophic and religious issue bearing weight propi-
tiously upon your leanings. This aspect affects you
by giving you more self-sufficiency and security.
You may now proceed to change your environment
should you so aesire. Any friendships would prove
lasting as well as would any activities involving
the element of finance. You can in every way strike
a better understanding of people and gain person-
ality through any outside influences. This period
may also incur the taking of a journey of consider-
able length but not purely for pleasure as it has
the tendency to increase the commercial side of
life.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF y OU WERE BORN BETWEEN MARCH 2-IST AND APRIL 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
THIS is an unfortunate influence. You are very
likely to suffer through the health. You may ex-
perience much opposition and many obstacles will
come into your path. It will require all of your
will power to overcome them. Disappointment
and trials of different natures are indicated for you z929
and you can not act too wisely while under this April, May,
planetary influence. Your mind and moods are December
inclined to be gloomy and pessimistic and you
will look on the dark sic.fe of things. If you z930
find an irritable mood or depression coming Allyear
over you, remember it is but a passing influence,
and that you will in time overcome it. zgp
It is a very unfortunate vibration and brings many Allyear
difficulties into your life requiring more than
ordinary effort to overcome. You may suffer a -'\ z932
great deal from headaches, and probably other January, February,
mental pains. You may lack ambition and feel at September, October,
odds with all persons with whom you come in November
contact, and it would not be wise to antagoniz v
those with whom you have business dealings or
those who play an active part in your life. Do not
allow heartaches or love interests to be paramount
in your life at this time-that is if you are not
already married. Existing engagements are con-
sequently in danger of being terminated. You may
be cognizant of the danger and compromise ac-
cordingly. If you are married there may be much
friction in the home life. Be on your guard, as
control is the big factor for you at this time.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF y OU WERE BORN BETWEEN APRI L 2IST AND MAY 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
r928
October, November,
December
r929
April, May,
August
r930
January,February,
April, September,
October
19JI
March, July
r932
January, March,
April, September,
December
THis is an active influence as it tends to make your
mind very alert and may bring you success in some
way. Since this is a very brief influence, take every
possible advantage and do not delay your activi-
ties. You may be more courageous and enterprising,
and thereby bring about some benefits. You may
very likely make some new friendships or you
may have a better understanding with old ones.
Your judgment may be much more reserved and
less likely to impulsiveness. Your mind will cer-
tainly be strengthened and it is time to attempt to
further plans and wishes that you may have felt
for some time in the past. You may be more
temperate in carrying out your desires in connec-
tion with your business interests, as well as social-
ly. You may seek fulfilment of projects; that is,
if you have no other slowly moving planets to
offset this. Financial matters take on new life and
you may expect preferment and promotion as well
as financial gain in connection with your home
and business life. Your health _
will greatly im-
prove and you may take or plan journeys. Love
affairs may prosper and you may have added plea-
sure through heart interests. This is a temporary
help to otherwise limiting influences.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN APRIL 2.IST AND MAY 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from 1928 through 1932, inclttsive
Tms is not a propitious period. You are very likely
to be over-energetic and permit impulsive acts to
interfere with your business. There is also a like-
lihood to legal difficulties and unless you are
circumspect, eventual financial loss. This is not a
period in which to enter into transactions of any
kind unless at the same time you happen to have
a favorable Jupiter influence. Even sliould this be
so you would have to temper your understanding
so as not to permit sentiment to overthrow com-
mon sense. Your judgment•may not be as clear as
would be desirable and you are likely to manifest
a spirit of aggressiveness and bravado. It is a time
when many trying situations may make themselves
felt and the desire to retaliate strongly indicated
in your activities. Since this is of very brief dura-
tion you can cope with your temperament through
understanding with this information as a guide.
Do not put too much faith in propositions made
to you nor in those contracts you make during this
period unless Jupiter also is in vibration. It is
essential that you guard your health and do not
take risks of any kind. Journeys may prove trouble-
some and love interests and romantic alliances
may bring you some difficulties. There is also a
likelihood of unhappy experiences through the
home ties and some sorrow is likely to be felt
through this source, particularly should you at
the same time have an unfriendly aspect of Jupiter
and Neptune, or Saturn.
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
1928
July, Aitgust
1929
]1me, fitly,
November
1930
March, July,
November,
December
1931
Janttary, February
April, May, ]ttne,
October
1932
February, June,
October, November
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN APRIL 2-IST AND MAY 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through I9J2, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
z928
From June through
December
z929
From January
through June
z930
From J1dy through
December
19JI
From Janttary
through July
z932
From September
through December
THIS is a favorable influence and you should gain
in experience which will" bring you eventual satis-
faction. Your financial affairs may take on new
life and it would be wise for you to do everything
in your power to bring about any desires which
you may have had in the past. It is particularly
favorable from a financial standpoint and anything
reasonable in nature begun under this aspect is
bound to prove helpful and beneficial. It is par-
ticularly fortunate should you in any way be in
connection with public enterprise or artistic work,
since it will bring you gain and promotion and
additional friendships aiding you to reach any
goal which you may set for yourself. Your mind
will be buoyant and a desire to attain a given goal
will manifest itself. It is particularly favorable for
romances and marriage and if you have had any
misunderstandings in your home life this is a
period where adjustments may be attempted and
where you may aspire for reconciliations. Your
health should be greatly improved and you will
be in a position to undertake greater commit-
ments than heretofore. Do not permit this period
to pass without doing something definite in the
way of rromotion. YOU may also find a new philo-
sophica outlook upon life and an interest in
literature and art or music will greatly aid as a
stimulant in your activities.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 33
IF y OU WERE BORN BETWEEN APRIL 2.IST AND MAY 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
Tms is not a favorable time in your life. It is likely
to bring some annoyance because offinancial affairs.
This does not necessarily mean that serious diffi-
culty will be encountered but that your income
may not be sufficient to meet your outlay, and it
is necessary that you curb any tendency toward
extravagance. There is also an indication of
difficulty through contacts", particularly with
those people whom you may have ·heretofore
looked upon as friends. Unexpected situations are
likely to put in an appearance, preventing the
carrying out of your plans because of lack of
finances. This does not mean that you should give
up affairs, unless you are at the same time under
other restrictive planetary influences. It does mean,
however, avoiding unnecessary waste and cutting
down to almost necessities. Your surroundings
may not, at this time, prove very stimulating to
you and you may find yourself in a fault-finding
but philosophical attitude. It is an excellent period
to dev:ote to the cultivation of your mind and to
the reading of good literature, which will bring
an understanding requisite under this aspect. It is
not a favorable period for asking favors and you
should avoid a tendency to exaggerate conditions
that are in your life. Watch with great caution the
romantic side of life and do not expect too great a
return from new friends who enter into your
affairs during this period, who may simply cost
you time and money. Greater caution is necessary
in dealing with your heart interests and, should
foreign affairs or foreign people be associated with
you, some misunderstanding may occur. It is not
a .particularly constructive period, unless spent in
development of self. Avoid breaking off long-stand-
ing friendships and do not permit your imagination
to run riot with you. Whenever you are annoyed
or worried, you will find great help during this
period in reading philosophical literature and
cultivating faith.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
I9JI
From August
through December
r932
From Janttat:y
through August
134 l'HE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BE1'WEEN APRIL 2IS1' AND MAY 201'H
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through I9J2, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
I929
April, December
I9JO
All year
I9JI
Allyear
I9J2
Janttary, Febmary,
September, October,
November
THis is a steady and persevering influence. You
sb ould do much to put matters on a firm basis and
endeavor to improve your financial standing.
Matters, particularly those connected with the
home and social life, that have been uncertain or
unsatisfactory should be adjusted to your liking
during this vibration. You may form friendships
with older people and come into closer contact
with your everyday associates in the commercial
world. Your mind will now be firm and tenacious
and you will be capable of taking advantage of
opportunities. It is a propitious period in which
to ma'ce investments of a sound nature that have
not a speculative aspect. Any changes or removals
that may have been desired may now be furthered
with more chance for success than at other times.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 35
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN APRIL 21sT AND MAY 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from 1928 through 19J2, inclusive
THESE are rather stressful times for you and it
would be wise for you to watch your health. You
are likely to experience disappointments, and
probably sorrows and trials. The effect of this
influence depends upon your ability to cope with
conditions. You are likely to meet with opposition
and you should be most circumspect as your mind
may tend to dwell on the dark side of things. You
may have financial difficulties and various other
annoying conditions to cope with. It would not
be wise for you to engage in any new undertakings,
especially those requiring the expenditure of
finances. You should curtail your expenses to
meet your income. Do not place much confidence
in people with whom you may come in contact for
the first time during this period. You can greatly
aid and benefit yourself during this influence by
being optimistic and calm, and realizing that
restricting conditions tend to make and build
character, and that whatever is, is best. Refuse to
accept destructive suggestions and realize that this
aspect is soon over and that if you deal intelligently
with it you will be the gainer, since knowledge is
power.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS
1932
From Mat·ch
through August,
December
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN APRIL 2.IST AND MAY 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
From September
through December
r929
From Janttary
through March;
July throttgh
December
r930
All year
I9JI
All year
I9J2
All year
A MOST favorable influence is vibrating for you at
this time-one in which to further all your hopes,
ambitions and desires. The mind should be more
versatile and capable of doing the most difficult
work, provided it is of a creative nature. You may
be strangely impressed by your environment and
find a new interest for mental stimulation, either
in psychology, philosophy or religion. Your
creative powers should now be stimulated to great
heights and in the realm of music, art or literature,
you may find a field for self-expression during this
period. It is particularly a fortunate time for deal-
ing with relatives. For those who write, it is a
helpful period to deal with publishers and news-
papers. You may change your entire view of life
under this aspect and undertake some very worthy
work. Financial conditions will improve greatly
in any work in which you may be interested and
you should endeavor to accumulate money. Mar-
riage and love affairs may be the means of much
happiness. You are likely to take a journey which
may bring you benefit, both in health and home
conditions. Avoid, however, the tendency to over-
work, as the nervous system during this condition
will be so highly sensitive that you might very
easily injure it. You may require more sleep than
at other times and will find your greatest source
of relaxation in music and out-door exercise.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 37
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MAY 21sT AND JuNE 20TH
Indicating fMJorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
Tars is a favorable influence in your life, as all
your energies and wits will be keen and alive. You
may have a greater amount of strength of character
during this aspect. You may receive recognition
from those who are in authority, or you may have
honour or preferment shown you. It is a favorable
time for dealing with the public at large; therefore,
should any of your interests center in this direction,
concentrate your efforts upon the successful realiza-
tion of them. Speculations may bring quick results;
it does not mean, however, that you should rush
to take chances simply because of this aspect. If
you are involved financially, you may receive
beneficial return. Foreign affairs may interest you
and have a beneficial effect upon your life. If you
should be engaged in litigation of any kind, you
may receive benefit through it. Writings and deal-
ings with publishers, or the signing of contracts,
may ultimately bring you added popularity and
gain. You are now less likely to meet with opposi-
tion from those with whom you are associated
than at other times. If you are married, you should
experience a better understanding in your home
life, and where there are children, you may have
some added pleasure through them. Business
affairs should prosper, but as Mars is of such quick
action, you should make the most of any project
that may arise for successful termination. This is
not the time to hesitate, but essentially the time
to do.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
June
r929
June, September,
October
r930
March, May,
June, November,
December
r93r
January, February
April, May, Jrme,
August, September
r932
February, May,
October, November
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MAY usT AND JuNE i.oTH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
Ig28
September
I929
January, February,
March, August,
December
I9JO
April, August
I9JI
July, November,
December
I9J2
March, April,
July, August,
December
THIS is a time in your life when you should use
caution in all undertakings. Avoid being impul-
sive; undertake nothing of importance as you are
not likely to meet with the desired success. Par-
ticularly is this true if you are associated with
business affairs or people. It is not a favorable time
to sign contracts or to engage in affairs of a serious
nature. You are very likely under this influence to
invite enmity and criticism, and it would be help-
ful for you to practice self-control. Use " caution"
as your motto and you will overcome this vibra-
tion. Do nothing where you may become involved
with the law as you are particularly susceptible
to interference in some form. Do not enter into
religious arguments or disputes as it may bring
you mental anxiety. Your judgment is not at its
best and you may be at cross purposes with your
social and business associates, so keep away from
these conflicting influences as much as possible
until the passing of Mars. Journeys may bring you
no benefit. Love affairs may cause you mental
anxiety and worry. Pay particular attention to
your health, that you do not expose yourself to
any physical danger. Guard particularly against
colds in the chest and arms, also difficulties with
your feet.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 39
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MAY 2.IST AND JuNE 20TJI
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 throttgh I9J2, inclusive
THis is a beneficial period in your life when you
can accomplish more successfully the details as
well as the important issues which may confront
you. It is favorable for signing of papers and legal
documents and anything of importance which is
reasonable in nature may bring you some definite
result. There will be a more optimistic outlook
upon life and a mental buoyancy assisting you to
cope with the other situations which may arise
due to the influence of Saturn or any other contrary
aspect which may exist at the same time. Financial
gain may accrue you and it is the time to further
to the utmost your personal coterie of friends in
order that they may be of assistance to you. This
is a time when journeys may prove advantageous
and relatives may assist you. Your health will
be in better condition and should you have an
unfriendly aspect of Saturn and Uranus this Jupiter
vibration will assist you to overcome it to a very
great extent or at least lessen the difficulties en-
countered thereby. Litigation may bring some gain
and it would be wise to seek advancement where
preferment may be shown you through those in
a position to offer it. Government interests and
literature, any work dealing with the public would
bring some recognition and gain; also financial
and speculative activities. This however must be
blended with the other aspects prevailing at this
time. It is a favorable period for .consummation of
marriage and also for adjustment of personal
interests. Some romantic interest may be forth-
coming and it is essentially the time to take advan-
tage of opportunity.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I929
From July
through December
I9JO
From January
through June
I9JI
From August
through December
I9J2
From January
through August
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
~F You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MAY 21sT AND JuNE 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURIN G
THE FOLLOWIN G
Y EARS:
I9J2
From September
through December
DuRING this period it is necessary that you be cir-
cumspect in all your undertakings. Do not be over-
confiaent and it would be to your advantage not
to consider the gain until you actually have it. It
is time when your health must be closely guarded
and the greatest caution exercised in your con-
tacts. If you are doing public work of any kind
then it is certainly necessary that you keep as far
from the limelight as possible and rather be the
power behind the throne during this period, doing
nothing which may in any way invofve you legal-
ly. You may find that separations from people
close to you may cause you difficulties and annoy-
ance and it is not at all unlikely that you may
experience some sorrow through your home ties.
Be circumspect about what you put in writing,
particularly in the signing of legal documents and
ao not take too much for granted. Journeys may
prove annoying and may not bring the proper
return for the expenditure involved. If you are
married you may experience some difficulties
through the home ties either through relatives or
direct. Romances and love interests may prove
disappointing and require handling. Do not
antagonize people nor become over-buoyant of
any sudden experiences which may on the surface
seem beneficiaL Curtail your expenditures to meet
your income.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MAY 2.IST AND JuNE 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THis is a favorable period and some benefit is likely
to accrue from most unexpected sources. It is par-
ticularly circumspect for making changes or for
doing anything where you may utilize your ini-
tiative, particularly so should you for any reason
have been in a subservient position. There is a
likelihood of unexpected journeys not purely from
a pleasurable standpoint but where the industrial
is apt to be blended and gain and new friendshiP.s
result. It also will stimulate the mind and you will
find an increase in enthusiasm. All matters will
take on new interest. You will be ingenious and
have original ideas which will prove to be of
benefit to you later on. You may formulate new
friendships under this influence but must be cau-
tious should you at the same time have an un-
friendly aspect of any of the other planets not to
further matters over which they may have juris-
diction. In other words, even though this is a
favorable influence you are likely to experience
some chaos but will eventually adjust matters.
Your mental condition will be greatly benefitted
and the mind come to a better understanding of
the higher principles of life. Romantic attachments
may take on new activity and you may at this
time have some heart interests which may prove
favorable for matrimony. You may rise from an
obscure position into one of leadership and under
this vibration you can successfully engineer the
situation. Preferment may be shown you. You
ar.e also likely to have some financial gain un-
expected in nature.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
From r928 through
I9J2
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MAY 2-IST AND JuNE 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and rmfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I9J2
From March
through August,
December
THis is a good influence in every way, particularly
where the mind is concerned. You may come in
contact with people who may have a permanent
effect upon you, and mould much of your future.
You may expect honors and preferment from
friends. New interests may enter your life and you
should make every possible attempt to further
them. Your ambitions may be realizea at this time,
where the help of powerful friends can be utilized.
In the management of your business dealings and
other interests, your mind will be more stern and
austere and you may feel at your best, and in har-
mony with the universe in general. Business will
prosper and success is indicated while this condi-
tion lasts. If your mother is living she may gain
in worldly goods or you may gain through her in
some way. Your love affairs will take on new light
and it is an auspicious time in which to arrange
for the future. New interests or renewals of old
friendships that enter in your life at this period
may tend to bring you more happiness than at
any other time and it would be wise for you to
further your affairs in this direction. Financial
conditions may improve and gains and success
attend you. However, a great deal is dependent
upon your methods during the course of this
vibration.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 43
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MAY usT AND JuNE 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and ttnfavorable periods from r928 throttgh r932, inclttsive
Tms is an unfavorable period and denotes a critical
time when many of your affairs are likely to be
delayed and matters tend to prove trying. You
must avoid depressing contacts. You require out-
door exercise and cheerful companions. It would
be wise for you to keep physically active and to
occupy your mind with the reading of constructive
literature. You may find that added responsibilities
are thrust upon you, tending to make you anxious
and a desire to limit your affairs must be attempted
with judgment. This is an active year for you and
if you have Jupiter or Uranus or Mars in friendly
aspect at any time it will greatly aid you to over-
come but it will not entirely mitigate this condi-
tion. It is an unusually menacing period and great
care must be exercised with your health, in your
business affairs and also with your financial status.
Do not get into litigation as delay may cause loss.
You may find that your ideas along religious and
philosophical lines take on a new attitude and it
is therefore essential that you understand the
influence which is operating and adjust it according-
ly. It is not advisable while this vibration is in
operation to take any foreign journeys as they
would be apt to limit you and cause loss in other
directions. Difficulties with older men may be
experienced and contact in this direction should
be attempted with the greatest circumspection.
During this period you may find many trying
experiences which if you cope with them through
understanding may later in life prove to be the
greatest lessons profitable in the future.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
All year
r929
J anttary, Febrttary
March;
From June
throttgh November
1 44 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN MAY 2.1sT AND juNE 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through i932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
September through
December
r929
January through
March;
July .
through
December
r930
Alt year
I9JI
Alt year
r932
Altyear
Tms is an unsettled period, as most affairs are
inclined to be in an involved state and a deep
depression likely to be experienced. This influence
has a tendency t;o open up the mind with new
insight and you shoufd be prepared to devote your
energies toward the enhancement of your mind
rather than for the increase of material goods. In
this way you can avoid the uncertain and haze-
like period which this aspect ushers in. You must
guara well your actions. Your emotional nature
may be stirred and you must avoid recklessness in
your attitude toward conventionalities in life.
Too much can not be said about curbing your
emotions, particularly on the physical plane. This
is a trying J?eriod and is essentially the time to use
'' caution ' as the slogan in all your acts. Do not
take yourself too seriously, as you may find it
difficult to concentrate on any routine work. Busi-
ness conditions may prove very trying and money
may be a source of worry that keeps you on the
hunt continually but without much success. This
does not mean that you will be at a loss for finances,
but that your expenditures may exceed your in-
come. Love interests are very often shattered and
misunderstandings take place, which you can
avoid by exercising self-control, realizing that
you are probably coloring matters with your own
imagination. If you are married, home conditions
may not be pleasant, and you may feel the·desire
for change. Where there are children in the family,
you may experience annoyance through them.
This aspect will soon pass-keep up your faith.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 45
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JuNE 21sT AND JuLY 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THis is a very favorable influence. New ventures
may afford opportunities for advancement and
you will find many new projects requiring your
attention. Your mind will be keen and alive and
open to all ·suggestions that may prove advanta-
geous to you. Your business should greatly prosper
and you may meet new friends who will be of great
help to you. { ou may desire to take some journey
at this time, which may prove beneficial to you.
Affairs in your home life may become active and
you may be further bound with those connected
with you to advantage. Your indigestion should
improve, but you should watch your diet, that
you do not over-indulge. You may be stimulated
both mentally and physically, with the ability to
consummate any unfinished affairs, realizing wishes
which may have been lying dormant. You may
form a new attachment or a new friendship that
may prove very helpful to you. You may at this
time have a financial gain and improve your
material standing. New enterprises may bring you
ultimate gain. This is an eventful period in your
life-do n:>t fail to make the most of it.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I928
May, July,
August
I929
August, November
I9JO
April, July
I9JI
July, October
I9J2
March, April,
June, December
146 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JuNE 21sT AND juLY i.oTH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from I928 through I9J2, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I928
June, October,
November,
December
I929
April, May,
September, October
I9JO
January, February,
May, June,
September, October
I9JI
March, August,
September
I9J2
January, May,
September
THIS aspect makes it necessary for you to safe-
guard yourself as you are likely to suffer through
disputes and arguments. You will realize that you
are unusually energetic and will think all matters
over before attempting to further any interests.
You may have some domestic troubles or estrange-
ments through the heart and love interest. It is
not wise for you to incur the enmity of those
people who may be closely connected with you,
either in social or business life. Transactions of
any nature may cause you unnecessary friction and
annoyance. It would be wise for you to refrain,
to the utmost of your ability from encouraging
any belligerence through partnership or associa-
tions. The pendulum of the law would probably
not swing in the right direction for you, should
you be involved in any manner through litigation.
Pay particular attention to your digestion at this
time and take no unnecessary risks of any kind. It
would not be wise for you to take any journey as
you are likely to be greatly disappointed or probab-
ly sustain loss. If you are in business, watch care-
fully all your affairs in order to avoid waste or
financial difficulty. This aspect is of short duration.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN juNE 21sT AND JuLY 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 throttgh Ig32, inclu.rive
Tms is a prosperous and successful period when
you are likely to be much more hopeful and thereby
capable of clearly exercising your best judgment as
you advance throughout this year. Under this
influence you will be more cheerful and your
ambitions will egg you on to the greatest fulfil-
ment. You may gain new friends, particularly
from a social and business standpoint, and it is
favorable for seeking advancement through any
such sources. In the home you may find more
congeniality than heretofore and should there
have been any misunderstandings you may be in
position to adjust them. There is an unfriendly
aspect during the year of Uranus and Jupiter which
may temporarily upset these conditions, but if
you are circumspect and carefully guard your
contacts and your temperament you will find that
the practicality of this favorable influence will
cause you to be capable of holding your own
counsel and utilizing this period for constructive
work. It is propitious for making changes in your
home or also for taking on new commitments,
although they may not be of a lasting nature.
Your emotions will be under better control as it
is a favorable influence for emotional and also for
heart interests. Financial affairs may take on a
new light and there may be decided gain, but
unless you are circumspect, owing to the other
influences prevailing, may also experience some
loss. You can cope with this through understand-
ing and through this fore-knowledge in a practical
manner.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS :
Ig28
From June
through December
r929
From January
through June
r930
From July
through December
I9JI
From January
through July
r932
From September
through December
148 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JuNE 2IST AND JuLY 20TH
Indicating favorable and ttnfavorable periods from r928 through I932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r929
April, December
r930
Allyear
I9JI
AU year
I9J2
January, February,
September, October,
November .
You are now under trying and unfortunate vibra-
tions. You may experience difficulties, particularly
in your home life. You should avoid making
changes unless you find that they are absolutely
necessary; then only after careful consideration.
Be circumspect in your dealings with other people
-especially those who are older than yourself.
Peradventure trouble presents itself in youi: home
life, carefully govern your attitude toward all
people with whom you come in contact. Curtail
your expenses to meet conditions and your income,
otherwise you may find yourself in financial straits.
Transactions or interests are likely to prove dis-
appointing, so expect no marked preferments. Your
father's health and conditions are likely to prove
a source of annoyance to you. Exercise every
possible care in relation to your health; also the
health of any older man in your family, or one
who may be intimately associated with you. Be
reserved and careful should your affairs link with
the law, as such matters might prove embarrassing.
This is a restricting influence and tends to bring
about difficulties, sadness, and depression in
general. Practise self-control and you may over-
come all these conditions.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 149
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JuNE 2.IST AND JuLY 20TH
Indicating favorahle and unfavorahle periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THIS is a period in your life when the greatest
caution must be exercised in all contacts. The un-
expected is likely to occur and while matters may
seem to be furthering smoothly some unexpected
difficulty may arise. Be prepared to meet any situa-
tion. It is not the time to permit your tempera-
ment to overcome your judgment nor to arrive at
hasty .deductions. Any new friendshifs may bring
difficulties. You are also likely to fee the pressure
of the influence of those who may be holding a
superior office and in your commercial contacts do
not antagonize nor demand unless you have a
favorable influence of Jupiter at the same time.
You are likely to have upsets and trials through
your home contacts ana your health must be
closely guarded, particularly your digestive organs
and your teeth. Plenty of outdoor exercise and
quiet and ~est is required. This aspect very often
brings a separation through the home ties, which
you can prevent if you will use judgment. The
health otsome member of your family may also
prove a disturbing influence. You will remember
that it is the unexpected which will occur in all
phases of your life throughout this year.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
From z928 through
z932
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BORN BETWEEN JuNE 2.IST AND JuLY 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
September through
December
z929
J anuary through
March;
July through
December
z930
All year
I9JI
All year
z932
All year
A MOST favorable influence. One in which to further
all your hopes, your ambitions, your desires. The
mind should be most versatile and capable of
doing the extraordinary, as you are gifted in many
ways. This is the time when you will feel the
weight of genius lifted. It is particularly a for-
tunate period where your relatives are concerned.
For those who write, it is a helpful time to deal
with rublishers and newspapers. YOU are likely
to fee a new spirit. You may change your entire
view of life unaer this aspect and undertake some
very worthy work. Financial conditions will
improve greatly in any work in which you may
be interested at this time. Marriage and love
affairs may be the means of much happiness. You
are likely to take a journey which may bring bene-
fit to you, both in health and home conditions.
Avoid, however, the tendency to overwork, as
the nervous system during this condition, will be
so highly sensitive that you might very easily
injure it.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JuLY 2.IST AND AuousT 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 throttgh z932, inclusive
THIS is a very good influence, but the activity of
this vibration is very quickly passed. You must
do everything within your power to grasp oppor-
tunities that may arise directly or indirectly,
through your own efforts. You will during this
vibration be much more courageous, more enter-
prising, and far more confident in your own ability,
than at other times. It will give you, however, an
adventurious spirit and you may come in contact
with people who will stir you up both mentally and
physically. You may give way to the feelings a
great deal and if you feel in any way inclined to
take a journey, you may meet with the one person
in the world to help you or benefit you. That in
itself does not mean that you should go off in
search of anybody. But whatever is destined to
come into your life may come in under this aspect.
Financial matters may take on a very active turn
and you may at this time make increases in your
finances. The action of Mars being so rapid it is
sure to at least cause you to have a very adventur-
ous period. If you are in any way connected with
the public or political life, this is the time to forge
ahead and try to attain your desires. Caution,
however, is the keynote for you during this period.
Should you at this time have the favorable in-
fluence of Jupiter or Uranus you must be circum-
spect that the success you encounter does not cause
you to become overly confident and throw discre-
tion to the winds. Great care is needed for you
have now more excess energy to cope with and
you must do so intelligently.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
June, September
z929
]anuary, February,
March, September,
October, December
z930
May, June,
August
I9JI
August, September,
November,
December
z932
May, July,
August
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BORN BETWEEN JuLY 2.IST AND AuGusT 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I928
fuly, August
I929
June, July,
November
I9JO
March, July,
November,
December
I9JI
January, February,
Ap,.il, May, June,
October
I9J2
Feb,.uary, June,
October, November
IT WILL be necessary for you to avoid as much as
possible entering into disputes with others. Do
nothing that may involve you in any way with
the law. You may, at this time, experience domes-
tic troubles, disappointments, and estrangements
from those in whom you have your greatest inter-
est. It would not be wise for you to enter into
speculation of any kind or take risks. You may
a1so have difficulties through some friend, and if
you will remember that you are not likely to be suc-
cessful in any deals, you will avoid further trouble.
You may have some difficulties in business, or
trouble through partnerships, etc. Pay particular
attention to your health and do nothing that
might jeopardize it in any way. Be circumspect in
all your aealings, that you do not injure your
reputation in some way, or bring about some sort
of scandal. Act discreetly and wisely and avoid
impulses and you will overcome this aspect. If
you are married, you may have some difficulties
through your children. Love affairs may cause you
some heartaches, and it may be necessary for you
to put your '' pride in your pocket •' if you wish
to avoid quarrels.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 53
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN juLY 21sT AND AuousT 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 tht·ough r932, inclusive
FORTUNE is favoring you at the present time and
you should try to advance in every way. Your
mental status may be enhanced also your ideas and
thoughts and new feelings will stir you emotion-
ally. You may change your entire mode of thought
and life at this time for the better in every way.
You may have some marked financial gains, pro-
motions, or preferment; at any rate you will be
happier in mind and in your surroundings than at
otlier times in your life. You may be greatly
stimulated in religious interests and politics or in
matters concerning the people at large. It is a
fortunate influence under which to deal with the
public as you are more magnetic and may attract
to you powerful help should you desire to do so.
You may ask favors and be assured of help in any-
thing of a reasonable nature. Your eloquence at
this time should be greatly improved. You are
likely to meet someone connected with the govern-
ment or the law and benefit through them. Any
new friends or people coming into the life at this
time may prove helpful and may assist. Certainly
this is the time to be up and doing and you may
feel confident that at least you are doing so under
the guidance and help of your better nature. Heart
affairs and love interests will please you and you
may gratify any desires in this airection. You·may
meet the one person in the world capable of under-
standing you, and you may marry, feeling that
you have started marital life in the " Light of the
Sun." Any partnerships made at this time may
prove beneficial. Do not allow this epoch to pass
without your doing something towarCl the attain-
ment of your highest ideals and desires.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
May
r929
From July through
December
r930
From January
through June
I9JI
August through
December
r932
January through
Attgust
1 54 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JuLY 2IST AND AuGusT 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
From June through
December
r929
From January
through June
THis is a period in your life when financial interests
may necessitate close adherence to economy to
prevent unnecessary extravagance. It is a balancing
influence, depending very much upon your own
activities as to the return that you may experience.
It is sure to bring some outstanding romantic
interest into your life and prove a stimulation.
Your mind may be particularly active along crea-
tive lines, and, should you have an interest in
literature, science or invention, some financial
gain or recognition may be forthcoming, through
which, however, there may be some slight annoy-
ance. It is therefore requisite that you understand
every situation and do not give up until you have
expended every possible means for having your
desires along these lines consummated. If you are
doing public work of any kind, some recognition
and preference may be shown you. It is the un-
expected, both in financial affairs and in amuse-
ments, that mark the trend of this time. It is
fortunate for asking favors from those people who
are in a position to help you, but it may bring
some misunderstandings unless you are circumspect
as to how you make known your desires. If you
are prudent, have courage and fortitude, you can
make this a most beneficial aspect, provided there
are no other detrimental planetary vibrations at
the same time.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
b You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JuLY usT AND AuousT 2.0TH
Indicating f({vorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THIS is a good influence in every way, particularly
where the mind is concerned. You may come into
contact with those people who may have a per-
manent effect upon you, and mold much of your
future during this aspect. You may expect honors
and preferment from friends. New interests may
enter your life and you should make every possible
attempt to further them. Your ambitions may at
this time be realized where the help of powerful
friends can be utilized. In the management of your
business dealings and other interests, your mind
will be more stern and austere and you may feel
at your best, and in harmony with the universe in
general. Business will prosper and success is cer-
tainly apparent while this condition lasts. Your
love affairs will take on new light and it is an
auspicious time in which to arrange for the future.
New interests or renewals of old friendships that
enter in the life at this period may tend to bring
you more happiness than at any other time and it
would be wise for you to further your affairs in
this direction. Financial conditions may improve
and gains and success attend you. However a great
deal is dependent upon your methods during the
course of this vibration. The religious, political
and philosophic side of life will interest you to a
great degree-foreign journeys and contacts will
be beneficial. If you have children some help and
honor mayattend you directlyor indirectly through
this source. Real estate and able solid investments
may prove to be financially profitable.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
Ig28
Allyear
I929
From January
through March;
From June
through November
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JuLY 21sT AND AuGusT 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I9J2
From April
through July
Tms is a rather trying period for you. You are very
likely to have difficulties in and through your
home surroundings, and may find it trying to
keep your min.d free from worry. Do not take
yourself or others too seriously, and bear in mind
that most conditions that are hampering you are
the result of mental attitude, and if you so desire,
you can overcome any existing disturbances by
refusing to accept experiences as necessities. You
should not make any changes unless absolutely
forced to. Be circumspect in your dealings with
others, particularly in your associations with
people ofder than yourself. You are likely to suffer
disappointments and must exercise caution and
stabifity in all your dealings. You may be some-
what lacking in concentration and you may find
it difficult to apply yourself diligently and judi-
ciously to routine matters. Financial conditions
may be the cause of worry, and if you have children
you may have some annoyances through them. It
is assuredly the time when you should be satisfied
if things rut:). along in a general way and not force
conditions. Watch your health, take plenty of
outdoor exercise, and attempt to keep yourself in
as optimistic a frame of mind as is possible. Do
nothing where your attitude might be miscon-
strued, and take no risks either in a financial .or
personal way. By proper forethought and physical
care you can mitigate any of the so-called adverse
aspects.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 57
IF You WERE BoRN BEny1rnN JuLY 21sT AND AuGusT 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
You are now under favorable influences. You may
gain suddenly through investments or by specula-
tions, especially in those things that deal with
railroads or money values. It is certainly a propi-
tious time in which to advance the mind or malce
efforts toward the betterment of your personal
surroundings, as fortune favors you. The affairs of
others connected with you may take on new vim
and will be a source of benefit to you. This condi-
tion promises a successful change in your pecuniary
affairs and also in the business life. It would be
very wise for you to make the most of your condi-
tion and to further to the utmost all matters that
may come into your life naturally, or as a result of
your own efforts, particularly through those
people with whom you are intimately thrown.
Preferment in public life will accrue to you. New
friends and acquaintances and a general period of
happiness may be looked forward to. It is certainly
the correct time to let ·· bygones be bygones ''
and to mend any sad experiences that have been
brought about at other times. Love affairs may
prove interesting and bring happiness while this
condition lasts. Many people marry under this
aspect and particularly die home life will prove to
be very attractive. It is the time for gaining your
heart's desire. Any matters that may have been
lying dormant should be furthered to the utmost.
Gain and popularity will follow any public ven-
tures. And in some manner people of the stage and
public affairs will contact you beneficially. Creative
work which you may do during this period would
mean financial J>rosperity. Unexpectea honor may
attend you.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
From z928
through z932
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN AuGusT 2.IST AND SEPT. 20TH
Indicating favorable and ttnfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I928
July, August,
October, November,
December
I929
April, May,
November
I9JO
January, February,
July, September,
October
I9JI
March, October
I9J2
January, June,
September
THIS is a favorable influence in your life. New
ventures may be brought to light and you may
gain suddenly through new friendships. You may
find that you are more courageous and determined
at the present time, and that a spirit of activity
and adventure will make itself feft. You are well
prepared to enter upon new schemes and under-
takings. In a general way you may find yourself
very busy and your mind alert. Should you have
an aspect of Saturn, Jupiter or Uranus at this time
you must be circumspect not to permit the ardour
of Mars to misdirect your energy. Even though
matters may seem to be progressing rapidly you
may have unforeseen difficulties and delays and it
would be wise to advance cautiously. Your health
should improve and you should feel quite yourself
although you must avoid over-doing things. You
may gain in some way through inheritance, or
financial matters, but have difficulties through this
source. You may feel the inclination for travel,
especially by water, and it would tend to make
you happier than you have been in the past, pro-
vided you do not have an unfavorable planetary,
Saturn or Uranus, aspect. In some way the mother's
health or her affairs will require your attention.
Conditions in the home life should improve.
Heart affairs take on new light and it is an auspi-
cious time in which to further all affairs in this
direction.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN AuGusT nsT AND SEPT. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
UNDER these vibrations, your mind may be com-
bative and inclined to irony and sarcasm. This may
lead you into difficulties and you are likely to be
more than usually critical and exacting in your
demands; therefore, do not make known your
feelings. The greatest discretion is essential in the
choice and use of words. It is not a very good in-
fluence under which to deal with the public and
you should be careful of what you put m writing.
It is not advisable for you to sign contracts or make
demands while this aspect lasts. Wait for a more
favorable influence, or you may cause lasting en-
mity and may find yourself involved in litigation.
You can not be too careful. Pay particular atten-
tion to your diet during this vibration. Do not
scatter your energies by attempting to put too
many " irons in the fire." Stick to one thing and
do not push that too energetically. Heart affairs
may cause you more annoyance than usual. This
influence may tend to bring about antagonism with
loved ones, yet by carefully governing yourself,
you may greatly overcome the baneful aspect of
this vibration. Financial matters may prove a
source of annoyance to you in some way, as this
is a rather critical time in your life. Since this
aspect is of very short duration, it would be to
your advantage to permit most of your interests
to lie dormant until after it has passed. Be most
careful in all your dealings as you will realize that
the greatest understanding is necessary in order
to cope intelligently with any situations which
may arise during this aspect.
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
May, September
z929
January, February,
March, Attgust,
December
z930
April, August
I9JI
July, November,
December
z932
March, April,
July, August,
December
160 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
lF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN AuGusT 2IST AND SEPT. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorableperiods from I928 through I9J2, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I928
From June
through December
I929
From January
through June
I9JO
From July
through December
I9JI
From January
through July
I9J2
From September
through December
Tms is a very favorable influence for you and
denotes one of the most active and preferred times
of your life. You have reached the epoch in your
activities since the last twelve years. Anything of
a reasonable nature that you may attempt may
prove to be beneficial to you. There is, however,
an aspect of Saturn operating during this year
requiring great caution and you must not permit
a brief space of favorable activity to mar your
judgment. Financial matters will come greatly to
the front and you may expect some gain through
the many activities but not without delay and
difficulty. You may at this time form lasting at-
tachments and become linked in some way with
people that may prove helpful. It is a most advan-
tageous time in which to take some journey that
may bring you marked benefit. This is an uplifting
period and religious matters may come greatly
to the front. You may be more philosophical in
thought and wiser in your actions than at any
other time of your life. It is essentially the time
to be uf and doing and to seek to increase your
materia goods in a way that may prove of great
advantage to you later on in life. You will find that
your home conditions will improve greatly and
should there be any sorrow in your home life things
will certainly begin to clear up for you. If you are
in any way to receive legacies or gifts, this would
be about the time for it. Love affairs take on new
life and you may expect some activity in this direc-
tion. Your health should in every way improve,
also the health of female members of your family,
and you will require additional care and exercise
because of Saturn at this time.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN AuousT 21sT AND SEPT. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
You are now under unfortunate vibrations. You
are very likely to suffer through the health. Pay
particular attention to your digestion. It would be
wise for you to adopt a diet during this aspect, as
the intestines are likely to be over-sensitive, and
your desire for rich foods greatly magnified and
exaggerated. Financial matters may prove a source
of annoyance to you and you may experience the
unexpected during this time. It is an unfavorable
influence under which to make cqanges of any
kind. You may suffer through your superiors in
some way and it would not be wise for you to
anta.gonize people, especially those connected with
business contacts or the public. Do nothing that
may involve you with die law and refrain from
litigation in any way. You may be separated from
those people near and dear to you. It is not at all
unlikely that you may experience some grave sor-
row through your personal attachments. Any
journeys taken at this time should be carefully
thought over in advance as they may prove dis-
appointing and cause you unnecessary expenditure.
Should you also be influenced by Saturn or Uranus
you would need to be .most circumspect in your
affairs and wisely expend your firiances. Love
affairs may cause you anxiety and it would be wise
to hold in abeyance the furthering of any heart
interests. If you are married you may experience
difficulties through the marriage partner.
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z929
From July
throttgh December
z930
From January
through June
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN AuGusT 1.IST AND SEPT. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I929
April
I930
All year
I9JI
All year
I932
January, FebruarJ',
September, October,
November
Tms is a constructive period in your life and you
should attempt to put things in order. Any matters
that may have been started at any other time
should be furthered to the utmost, and you should
make every effort to consummate outstanding
unfulfilled desires. This applies particularly to
business or commercial associations and undertak-
ings. Your mind will be steady and perservering,
and you will desire to get down to the practical in
the application of most matters. If there are any
changes or moves that you desire to make either
in your home life or in your business connections,
this is the time to do it. You may receive some
advancement, and life will tend to go more smooth-
ly for you than has been the case for some time.
Your characteristics will become strengthened
and you will be in a position to help yourself. You
may receive gain or benefit through older people,
and experience a greater trend of harmony than
you have heretofore. These are the epoch-making
times in life, and as you career along under this
influence you should endeavor to make it a bene-
ficial one.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN AuGusT 21sT AND SEPT. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THis is an unfortunate direction. You may have a
great many problems confronting you, particularly
those of a sorrowful or grievous nature and it will
require your best judgment to wisely cope with
them. You may experience difficulties that cause
delay and financial worry. You should at this time
be most circumspect in all of your actions, especial-
ly in your mental attitude toward others, as you
are very likely to suffer disappointment and be
affected by those people closefy connected with
you. This vibration may separate you from loved
ones and cause difficulties through inferiors and
the law. It is not an auspicious time in which to
undertake any commitments, partic;ularly those
pertaining to business ventures. You are apt to
suffer criticism from the general public, and from
those intimately concerned with you. It would
be unwise for you to further matters that have been
lying dormant or attempt to force any situations.
Rather busy yourself with routine matters and let
well enough alone. As this is a most trying in-
fluence, affairs of the heart can bring you nothing
but disappointment, as you are bound to be in
opposition with your better nature and therefore
very much less magnetic. Losses are apt to accrue
to you. Avoid arguments and govern all your
activities, by using judgment and understanding
and giving every matter, no matter how trivial it
may seem, your utmost attention. You can solve
many of the powerful influences of this vibration
by right application of thought.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
All year
z929
January, February,
March;
From June
through November
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN AuousT 21sT AND SEPT. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
September through
December
z929
January through
March; July
through December
z930
Allyear
I9JI
Allyear
z932
Allyear
THIS is a deeply subtle influence and is not very
closely connected with material matters. You are
liable to experience the unexpected and to have a
mental awakening as a result of it. You may have
some experience connected with the sea or voyages.
Under this influence, be very careful of speculation
and you must be most circumspect in your judg-
ment regarding money matters. Avoid radical ideas
pertaining to sex or marriage ties, as you are very
likely to be adverse to all ceremonies or restrictions
concerning these matters. Under these vibrations
you are likely to be complicated through the
emotions and the sex nature. You may have a
liaison if you are married, or an attachment with
another who is married, and ultimate difficulties
through such adventures. You are bound to be
stimulated mentally, and as you are very likely to
feel the need of pleasure, your emotions will be
extremely stirred. It is an excellent period for
creative work in art, literature or music. You must
exercise your power to its greatest degree, and
handle with care these dominating influences.
Where there are children, there may be suffering
caused through them, and you should watch your
nervous system. Do nothing hastily and make
allowances for irritation caused through every-
day contacts.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN SEPT. 21sT AND Ocr. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THis is a fortunate time in your life. You may
engage in new enterprises and experience new
ventures. Matters that -require your immediate
attention and l!-Ction and where determination and
courage are necessary, may be met by you with
more accuracy and expediency than at other times.
You may be more energetic and industrious. You
may find new schemes and undertakings and be
generally busy on a number of projects. You may
attract many friends and have better understanding
with all loved ones. It will give you a closer con-
nection through mutual interest in your business
and social life. Your home affairs may prosper and
you may have a friendly feeling toward all in every -
way. Business should improve and you may have
financial gains. Your health should be very much
better and you may feel more inclined to take exer-
cise than formerly and also improve your general
surroundings. You are now at your best for har-
monious work with others, and it is a propitious
time in which to consummate marriage or to form
some agreement in this direction. Your love inter-
ests will take on new life and result in a more happy
and cheerful frame of mind. Avoid, however, too
great activity. You may take a vacation or travel
at this time with beneficial results.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I928
September
z929
January, February;
March, June,
July, December
I9JO
August, March,
November,
December
I9JI
January, February;
From April
through June,
November,
December
I9J2
February, July,
August, October,
November
:r66 'rH'.E H'.£1.AV:BNS l>llOCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN SEPT. 21sT AND OcT. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
June, October,
November,
December
z929
April, May,
October, September
z930
J anuary, Febrttary,
May, June,
October, September
I9JI
March, August,
September
z932
January, May,
September
You should be circumspect in all your dealings
with people, especially those who are in any way
in a position to be classed as superiors, or who can
in any way exercise authority over you. It may
seem to you that unfairness and injustices are being
brought to bear upon you but as this is but a pass-
ing influence and as you are likely to be greatly
perturbed over even the smallest detail, do not put
too much stress upon it. You may experience ais-
appointment, and Mars may tend in some way to
make this a trying and disagreeable time for you.
You may have serious domestic troubles or es-
trangements and disappointments from those
closely connected wit& you. Undertakings or
engagements into which you may enter during
this aspect may bring you trouble, therefore
avoid being impulsive. It is not a favorable time
in which to undertake to make changes, or to have
important dealings or to allow sentiment to enter
into your affairs in any way. Do not jeopardize
your safety, as you are now under very quarrelsome
and combative vibrations. It is not a favorable
influence under which to plan or make journeys
as you may suffer through them. Love affairs may
cause you anxiety and difficulty, and financial
conditions may prove to be a source of irritation.
Control your desires and await more favorable
influences under which to further any affairs that
are of importance to you.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN SEPT. 21sT AND OcT. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
You are now under favorable planetary influences,
particularly in affairs that deal with finances. You
will receive marked benefits through business
associations and projects dealing with the element
of partnership. This aspect is conducive to success
in work of a creative nature. This is a time in
your life when you should attempt to realize your
ambitions. The unexpected is the outstanding
feature of this aspect. Take advantage of every
invitation and opportunity which presents itself,
for under this vibration every invitation may hold
the possibility of an offer to assist you in achieving
your goal. New friendships niay enter into the
life, bringing benefit and pleasant conditions. Your
financial affairs should prosper, and should you be
involved in litigation, this would be a favorable
time in which to further it: Any long-standing
difficulties can be readjusted during this period
with success. Any work of a public nature would
bring you preferment and gain. It is a favorable
period for signing papers or contracts. This is an
especially vital aspect for gain through friendships;
therefore endeavor to enlarge your social circle.
Romantic interests take on added vigor and home
affairs prove more congenial and inviting, and it
is an excellent time under which to consummate
marriage. Your health will be better than at other
times. Your mind will be clear with an unerring
vision, aiding you in exercising your best judgment
in the choice of your activities.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I929
From July
through December
I9JO
From January
through June
I9JI
From August
through December
I9J2
From January
through August
168 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN SEPT. 21sT AND Ocr. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
May
z930
From July
through December
I93I
From January
through July
You may be subject during this period to many
financial and personal difficulties. You should not
attempt new projects of importance as the time is
not ripe for success, unless Saturn is in friendly
vibration in which case you may still experience
financial problems. You may attract people of
great prominence to you at this time but you need
not expect any startling results through them. You
are very likely to be over extravagant and waste
your material. You are prone to financial losses
and should you gain through partnerships you
may have difficulty in obtaining it or litigation
through it. You may at this time take peculiar
views about personal relationships and may be
very narrowed through this attitude in your
activities. Unless Saturn is also in aspect, this is
not the time to try and force your ambitions into
completion as obstacles may confront you. You
may be separated from or lose someone very near
and dear to you. You are very likely to have mis-
understandings through friends. Men at the head
of affairs will be prominent in your life at this time,
but no immediate help can be expected. Delays and
promises usually follow. You may suffer through
the actions of others, so beware of any financial
propositions made to you during this vibration.
You may at this time find your circulation in a
very depleted condition, and you should favor
yourselras much as possible. The condition of the
general system is apt to need a lubrication. The
kidneys and heart are particularly susceptible to
annoyance.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN SEPT. nsT AND OcT. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
Tms is a very good influence, an important one in
which you are very likely to be strengthened both
in your character and in your ability to cope with
business problems. You may meet with people
older than yourself and your mind will be steady,
more capable of handling the titanic influences that
greet you during this period. You should do all in
your power to place yourself in positions of trust
or where the future may be secured. This aspect
is auspicious for business, and financial enterprise.
In the home life you may experience better feeling
and your health should improve. There is a ten-
dency toward your being particularly attracted
towards speculation and acquiring an attitude of
risk whicli must be continually managed since you
are likely to have an unfriendly Uranus and Jupiter
aspect upsetting all your good plans. You may
have a keen desire for pleasures and if partaken of
wisely they will stimulate your mind, and make
you much more magnetic. You are at this time
particularly sensitive where the love nature plays
an important part, and you should exercise great
care, so that the desire for gratification does not
overcome your better judgment."You will probably
be more at ease and experience a feeling of friend-
ship with the world in general but do not be mere-
ly optimistic. H you are married, you may expect
much better conditions through your home life.
Dealings with the public, also business ventures
where tact and diplomacy are the vital essentials
will bring you some success, unless you should
also have an unfriendly Uranus or Jupiter aspect
in which case this beneficial vibration would be
modified.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
Alt year
z929
January, February,
March;
From June through
November
170 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN SEPT. 2.IST AND OcT. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 thro11gh z932, inclusive
THE FoLLc:>WING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z929
April, December
z930
All year
I9JI
All year
z932
Jan11ary, Febr11ary ,
September, October,
November
THIS is a very unfavorable period and denotes a
critical time, in which all your affairs may tend to
go wrong. You may become more than usually
suspicious. You may find added responsibilities
thrust upon you, which may make you more anx-
ious. Beware of becoming narrow and limited in
your viewpoint. You should govern your actions
with more than the usual amount of tact, as this
is a particularly menacing period. This condition
will affect you not only in your health but in
business and heart affairs, and you are in danger of
losses that may meance your entire financial status.
Lawsuits are threatened and losses resulting there-
from. You may experience a great deal of quarrel-
ing, and as your mind is not in a state to cope with
important conditions it can not be stressed too
strongly that you handle with care any important
projects. Domestic affairs are threatened, and
separations and bickerings in your home life. In
love affairs you may experience many disappoint-
ments and heartaches. You must exercise much
judgment in all your dealings, as you will be less
magnetic under this influence, therefore less at-
tractive even to those vitally interested in you.
Be circumspect in your business enterprises and
avoid risks, troubles, or difficulties through part-
nerships of any kind. You may find however that
you will be greatly strengthened by the ordeals
through which you may be obliged to pass.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 171
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN SEPT. 2.IST AND OcT. IOTH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THis is a disturbing influence and brings about the
unexpected. Your affairs are very likely to suddenly
go wrong. This condition may bring upsets of
personal interests astounding in nature, unless you
think carefully and proceed slowly. You should
avoid making business changes or traveling unless
you have other favorable aspects in operation
which would aid you through this vibration. You
are very likely to meet with strenuous opposition
and to suffer estrangements and separations.!rouble
through partnJrships and the home is threatened.
Impulsive acti~ns are very likely to prove inimical
to your future lwelfare. It is certainly not an aus-
picious aspect under which to force conditions!
Avoid disputes, and keep clear of all legal affairs.
Your mind may be very active but it is certain that
important issues need handling. This is also a
chaotic influence under which to further any new
friendships. Pay marked attention to the health
and immediate care to any bodily disorders, that
may manifest themselves at this time. The love
nature may bring conditions that are disappoint-
ing. This vibration may usher in a period marking
an epoch in your life unless you use caution. It
will require every possible resisting power of yours
to overcome desire and avoid throwing discretion
to the winds. B
lear in mind that nothing of a sudden
nature during this condition can bring you any
marked benefit . Await a more favorable influence
in which to further your interests.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS :
From z928
through z932
I72 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Ocr. 2IST AND Nov. 20TH
. I
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from I<)28 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
May; October
through December
r929
April, May,
August
r930
January, FebruarJ,
April, September,
October
I9JI
March, July
r932
January, March,
April, September,
December
THis is a fortunate influence as it tends to make your
mind very alert and may bring you some marked
success. This, however, owing to other planetary
influences prevailing throughout this year, mu.st
be taken advantage of immediately; otherwise,
it is not sufficiently strong to overcome the other
vibrations. You may be more courageous and
enterprising and thereby bring about some decided
benefits, which may, however, take some time for
materialization. You may very likely make some
new friendships, or have a better understanding
with old ones, but do not take these friendships
too seriously, as they may be of short duration.
Your judgment may be much more reserved and
less likely to impulsiveness. Your character will
certainly be strengthened and it is the time to
devote yourself to routine work. Many new pro-
jects may arise in which you may have a temporary
interest, but unless you benefit immediately, do
not look for any startling return. You are apt to
be much more temperate in a general way, in your
activities in business, as well as socially. You may
seek fulfilment of projects. Financial matters take
on new life, but no great preferment or promotion
can be expected this year because of the other
planetary vibrations prevailing. This aspect will,
however, bring in a breathing spell and permit
some activity for a time. Some activity in your
romantic affairs may be apparent.
THE BEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN OcT. 2.IST AND Nov. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
UNDER this aspect, you should avoid over-activity
and impulsiveness in all your dealings. Do not
speculate or take risks of any kind, as this is not a
favorable influence and your judgment may not
be at its best. During this period some news of a
depressing nature may bring unpleasantness, but
your understanding will enable you to overcome
any of the vicissitudes of life through faith and
intelligent coping with situations. It would be
wise for you to realize that this is not the time in
which to attempt to further any of your affairs,
rather than to attend to routine duties. Financial
matters may prove a great strain to you and you
may lose through litigation, so do nothing where
you are involved in any way with the law. You
may be susceptible to physical disturbances at this
time, but as Mars is so quick in action, this will
soon pass away. Watch your diet closely and pay
marked attention to your health, and at the least
symptom ofdisorder, take some corrective measure.
Avoid risks of any kind. Love affairs may not seem
to prosper, or they may cause you annoyance. If
you are married, you may experience some dis-
agreeable situations through the home environ-
ment. This is not a favorable influence under which
to make changes, particularly in your business
affairs. Surgical attention is never advisable under
this influence.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
July, August
r929
June, July,
November
r930
March, July,
November,
December
I9JI
January, February,
April, May, June,
October
r932
February, June,
October, November
1 74 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN OcT. 2.IST AND Nov. 2.0TH
Indicating favorahle and unfavorahle periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I9JO
July through
Decemher
I9JI
From January
through July
I9J2
From Septemher
through Decemher
Tars is a favorable influence and you can expect
success in your undertakings. It is a good period to
protest vigorously against all binding influences.
You may benefit through the marriage partnership
and other personal contacts. This generally brings
some financial gain, and an increase in the domestic
sphere. You may receive some inheritance or be
mentioned in some way for financial promotion.
Avoid being too free with your money and refrain
from expending all your income. Your health
should greatly improve also the health of male
members of the family. You may at this time
further any project reasonable in nature and be
assured of success. People of a religious and philo-
sophical turn of mind may cross your path and
eventually prove of great help to you. You may
even find yourself thinking along new lines parti-
cularly where the religious plays an active part.
Your personal magnetism should provide you
many new opportunities and you may attract many
people to you. Love affairs prosper under this
influence. It is a propitious period for the consum-
mation of heart interests and marriage. If you are
married you will have better understanding and
happiness through your home life. Your affec-
tions will be keyed up and the ardor will have full
reign. Make the best possible use of a favorable
influence.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 75
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN OcT. 21sT AND Nov. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THis is a period in your life when your financial
affairs may cause you unusual stress. It is therefore,
necessary that you watch your expenditures and
that you curb any tendency toward- extravagance.
It is likely to bring unexpected pressure on your
material goods and place obligations upon you
that are depleting. You may find, should you be
engaged in litigation of any kind, difficulty in
arriving at a settlement; therefore do not involve
yourself in legal matters. Some irritation regarding
finances may be encountered through inheritance
and it is advisable to make adjustment wherever
possible while under this aspect. Trusted friends
may seem unreasonable at this time and you should
avoid being too critical. Romantic interests may
prove disappointing and you may subject yourself
to disparagement unless you are particularly
cautious in your contact with people, especially
so, if you are interested in dealing with the public,
or in any public ventures. Avoid arguments where
your heart affairs are concerned; otherwise, you
may cause estrangement, bringing worry and dis-
illusionment in its train. In your business affairs, it
would be wise for you to curb the tendency to go
to extremes in finances. It is not a period during
which you should make changes in your home life
or in your business. Be circumspect of new friend-
ships and do not be overly-confident in any affairs
involving finances.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
From June
through December
z929
From January
through June
z93z
From August
through December
z932
From January
through August
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Ocr. 2.IST AND Nov. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I929
April, December
Ig'JO
All year
I9JI
All year
I9J2
Jamtary, February,
September, October,
November
THis is a steady and persevering influence. You
should do much to put matters on a firm basis and
endeavor to improve your financial standing. Mat-
ters, particularly those connected with the home
and social life, that have been uncertain or unsatis-
factory should be adjusted to your liking during
this vibration. You may form friendships with
older people and come into closer contact with
your everyday associates in the commercial world.
Your mind will now be firm and tenacious and you
will be capable of taking advantage of opportun-
ities. It is a propitious period in which to make
investments of a sound nature that have not a
speculative aspect. Any changes or removals that
may have been desired may now be furthered with
more chance for success than at other times.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 77
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN OcT. 21sT AND Nov. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
You are now under restricting conditions. It would
be wise for you not to take life too seriously. You
are likely to have many obstacles placed in your
path, and you may find it difficult to surmount
them. You may be anxious over the health of some
older people connected with you, and may find it
generally a depleting influence. You can greatly
overcome this condition by guarding your physical
condition and paying strict attention to your diet
during this aspect. You may feel depressed and
moody and should associate yourself with cheerful
companions. Sleep a great deal during Saturn's
reign. Financial conditions may prove trying, and
a general slowing up in all matters may be exper-
ienced. It is, however, a propitious period for
attending to routine work and much may be
accomplished by you in this direction. Heart inter-
ests may cause you worry and annoyance, and you
may tend to magnify conditions. Be cheerful and
keep yourself occupied mentally and physically.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r932
From March
through August,
December
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Ocr. 2IST AND Nov. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
From September
through December
r929
From January
through March;
From July
through December
r930
All year
I9JI
All year
r932
Allyear
THis is a fortunate influence. This will make your
mind more buoyant, give you confidence and in
every way bring a pleasant, cheerful outlook upon
life. Your emotions may be stirred to extremes and
you should guard against flights of fancy, particu-
larly where heart interests are concerned. You may
find yourself greatly moved into the expression of
the more spiritual interests in life, such as psych-
ology, philosophy and religion, and the reading
of elevating literature will greatly aid and stimu-
late you. Prosperity of a most unusual kind is
likely to come into your life; in other words, a
boon may be looked for. It is certainly the time
when fortune is smiling at you and it may fill your
cup to overflowing. You may take some long jour-
ney or voyage at this time which will benefit you
in many ways. Your mind will take on a serious
mood and you will therefore be capable of handling
any ventures with thought and contemplation,
which will greatly add to your good fortune. You
may feel the desire to improve your entire sur-
roundings and this is the time to do so. The higher
nature in you will broaden in every way. People
connected with you through the emotions will be
brought closer, either through marriage or a better
understanding exist. You should do everything in
your power to enhance your financial affairs and
it is a favorable time for asking favors of those
who may be in a position to render you aid.Your
clearness of understanding will give you preference
in the choice of your activities. Be guided by any
other aspect which may be prevailing at the same
time and blend the influences, using your judgment
at all times.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 79
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Nov. 2IST AND DEc. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
Tars is a very good influence, but the activity of
this vibration quickly passes. You must do every-
thing in your power to grasp opportunities that
may arise, through your own efforts. You will,
during this vibration, be much more courageous,
more enterprising and far more confident in your
own ability, than at other times. It will give you,
however, an adventurous spirit arid you may come
in contact with people who will stir you both
mentally and physically. You will give way to
your feelings and, if you take a journey, you may
meet the one person in the world who may be able
to help you or benefit you. That in itself does not
mean that you should go offin search ofsomebody,
but whatever is destined to come into your life,
may come in under this aspect. Financial matters
may take on a very active turn, and you may at
this time make some money. The action of Mars
being rapid, it is sure to cause you to have a very
adventuresome period. If you are in any way con-
nected with the public or political life, this is the
time to forge ahead and try to attain your desires.
Caution, however, is the keynote for you during
this period. Your understanding will become
broadened and you will be in a position to make
the proper choice in your activities.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
June
z929
June, July,
September, October
z930
March, May,
June, November,
December
I9JI
January, February,
April, May, June,
August, September
z932
February, May,
October, November
180 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Nov. nsT AND DEc. l.OTH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHs DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
May, September
z929
January, February,
March, August,
December
z930
April, August
I9JI
July, November,
December
z932
March, April,
July, August,
December
THis is the time in your life when you should use
caution in all your undertakings. Avoid being
impulsive in any way and any matters of impor-
tance should be delayed until after the P,assing of
this influence. Particularly is this true 1f you are
connected in any way with business affairs. It is
not a propitious time to sign contracts or to deal
with the jublic unless you can govern your im-
pulses an avoid friction. You are very likely,
under this influence, to invite enmity and it would
be wise for you to practice self-control. Use " Cau-
tion '' as your motto and you will overcome this
dominating influence. Do nothing which may
involve you with the law, as you are particularly
susceptible to difficulties from this source. Do not
enter into religious arguments or disputes, as this
may bring you some form of mental worry and
suffering. Your judgment is not at its best and you
may be at cross-purposes with your social and
business associates, so keep away from these con-
flicting influences until the passing of Mars. Any
journeys which may be necessary should be delayed
until this influence is over. Love affairs may cause
you mental anxiety and worry, but this being
merely a temporary condition, do not put too
much stress upon it. Pay particular attention to
your health and do not expose yourself to any
physical danger. Guard particularly against colds
in:the chest, and difficulties with your feet.
THE REAVENS PROCLAIM 181
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Nov. 21sT AND DEc. i.oTH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THis is a favorable influence in your life and it is
essential that you do everything in your power to
bring into realization any of the desires which you
may have felt for some time in the past. Your mind
will be more creative and capable, and you should
experience no difficulty in bringing all your affairs
to a satisfactory adjustment. You may find many
new friendships entering into the life which may
prove to be of benefit to you. Financial affairs
should greatly improve and some benefit or assis-
tance may be derived from those in close contact
with you. It is a favorable time to ask the aid of
those who may be in a position to help you. The
occasion for taking unexpected journeys may pre-
sent itself and a foreign journey or dealings with
foreign affairs would prove beneficial. Business
affairs should afford you the opportunity to make
the best use of your associations. In romantic
interests, happy conditions should manifest them.:.
selves and it is a favorable period in which to
consummate marriage. In the home life, more
settled and prosperous conditions may prevail.
Your mind will become inspired to better things,
and if you have an opportunity to do public work,
you may gain some honor and preferment through
it. If you receive at the same time the aspect of
Uranus this Jupiter influence will greatly modify it.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I9JI
From August
through December
I9J2
From January
through August
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Nov. 2.IST AND DEc. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I929
From July
through December
z930
From January
through June
z932
From September
through December
You are now under unfavorable conditions and you
may experience a rather trying time. You are more
than lil{ely to suffer through opposition of others,
and may have some serious disappointments. It is
certainly not the time in which to enter into or
make contracts of any kind or sign any papers, but
be particularly careful in your dealings with the
law. Litigation of any kind during this period will
prove unsatisfactory for you. You may find it
aifncult to meet conditions financially and you
must learn during this aspect to curtail your ex-
penses to meet your income, otherwise you may
find yourself rather deeply involved. In affairs of
the heart you may find that people to whom you
have been greatly attached may disappoint you.
It may be that you may meet someone and find
yourself very much tied up with them and later
find that it has all been a mistake. Be circumspect
of all people with whom you may have dealings,
particularly those who may be of vital importance
to you. It is not the time to try and gain social
advantages because you are not as magnetic as you
are at other times and therefore not as attractive.
Watch the health, particularly the chest and
shoulders and the nervous system as well so that
you do not become ill. Everything can be over-
come, it merely requires judgment on your part
and care in all your dealings. You may have a
strong desire to travel and care should be exercised
in the selection of the place or direction, and also
the people with whom you may come into contact.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Nov. 2.IST AND DEc. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from I928 through I9J2, inclusive
THIS is a good influence in every way, particularly
where the mind is concerned. You may come into
contact with those people who may have a per-
manent effect upon you, and mold much of your
future during this aspect. You may expect honors
and preferment from friends. New interests may
enter your life and you should make every possible
attempt to further them. Your ambitions may at
this time be realized where the help of powerful
friends can be utilized. In the management of your
business dealings and other interests, your mind
will be more stern and austere and you may feel
at your best, and in harmony with the universe in
general. Business will prosper and success is cer-
tainly apparent while this condition lasts. Your
love affairs will take on new light and it is an
auspicious time in which to arrange for the future.
New interests or renewals of old friendships that
enter in the life at this period may tend to bring
you more happiness than at any other time and it
would be wise for you to further your affairs in
this direction. Financial conditions may improve
and gains and success attend you. However a great
deal is dependent upon your methods during the
course of this vibration. The religious, political
and philosophical side of life will interest you to
a great degree--foreign journeys and contacts will
be beneficial. If you have children some help and
honor . may attend you directly or indirectly
through this source. Real estate and able solid
investments may prove to be financially profitable.
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I9J2
From March
through August,
December
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Nov. 21sT AND DEc. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
Alt year
r929
January, February,
March; From ]1me
through November
THis is not a beneficial aspect. You may now have
opportunities to assume greater and more responsi-
ble positions but meet with obstacles and difficul-
ties both through business and social affairs. You
are very likely to meet many people older than
yourself, who will in some way prove troublesome
to you. Your mind will be more conservative, con-
centrative, and persevering, but you must avoid
depression and melancholy people. Keep your
mind optimistic. It is not the time to further new
interests, especially those affairs that have been
lying dormant. Be calm and await favorable
aspects. During this aspect you may find that a
great many foreign interests will occupy your
mind and you will take a journey or desire to do so,
but are likely to meet with disappointments. This
aspect will give you firm ground for improvement
both in your beliefs and in your home surroundings
through lessons learned and if you can benefit
through experience this period will be an epoch
maker in your career. Affairs of the heart may
greatly interest you but some obstacles to complete
happiness ensue, and if you are married you may
not have the greatest congeniality from your
partner. Love affairs will prosper but you are very
likely to be unhappy because of difficulties. Law-
suits and contentions that arise should be post-
poned until you are undermore favorable influences.
Should your enterprises in any way bring you in
contact with the general public, you are more
likely to meet with ups and downs than at any
other time. Be philosophic and occupy your mind
with constructive reading.
THE REAYENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Nov. 21sT AND DEc. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THIS is a beneficial aspect. You may now have
unexpected opportunities to assume greater and
more responsible positions both through business
and social affairs but you must proceed with cau-
tion because of Saturn's depleting influence. You
are very likely to meet many people older than
yourself who will in some way prove of benefit
to you. Your mind will be more conservative,
concentrative and persevering and you will feel
the need for change but do so only after the greatest
caution. It is an excellent time in which to further
your interests, especially those affairs that have
been lying dormant, but completion is unlikely.
During this aspect you may fina that a great many
foreign interests will occupy your mind and you
will take a journey or desire to do so. This aspect
will give you firm ground for improvement both
in your beliefs and in your home surroundings;
also a foothold for financial betterment for future
developments. Affairs of the heart will benefit you
greatly, and if you are married you may expect
congeniality from the partner. Love affairs will
prosper and you t re very likely to be happy in any
affairs of the hea t but have some difficulty in your
path. It is an a spicious time to marry but the
success of it depends upon your ability to cope
with obstacles. In any enterprise where partner-
ship plays an important part further these interests
to the utmost but begin no new enterprise for
immediate undertaking. Law suits and contentions
that come naturally will prove favorable to you
but cause annoyance. Should your enterprises in
any way bring you in contact with the general
public you are more likely to meet with success if
you can overcome stubbornness and delay. Make
the most of your conditions.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
From Ig28
through Ig32
186 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN Nov. 2.IST AND DEc. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
From September
throttgh D ecember
r929
From J anuary
throttgh March;
From July through
D ecember
r930
All year
I9JI
All year
r932
All year
You are at this time under influences which make
it essential for you to handle your affairs carefully.
This is a limiting period, requiring more effort
than usual to overcome obstacles. It would be
wise to defer any important matters until some
future time. New thought and new ideas may be
upsetting, so avoid as much as possible changing
your present views. Do not take on radical and
hindering beliefs and also be careful of your expres-
sion in the discussion of religion. Close adherence
to the Divine Intelligence, with understanding of
the efficacy of prayer, will do much to help you
over this upsetting period. This is not a propitious
time for dealing with interests of importance.
Your judgment is not at its best and under this
cross vibration, you should avoid ventures where
the element of risk plays an important part. Your
affairs may /rove to be disappointing and you
should avoi intimacy with new friends. Be dis-
creet in your actions and avoid undue criticism.
Love interests are likely to cause you some unhap-
piness. Do not take yourself or life too seriously.
You may experience delays in your schemes or in
cherished ambitions, and the more important issues
oflife. Avoid quarrels with those closely connected
with you, as you are less magnetic during this
period and you are not apt to attract people. Loss
of friends and relatives 1s likely to occur. If you
will refrain from giving way to your emotions
and keep yourself as well balanced as possible, you
will be in a position to overcome any conditions.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN DEc. 21sT AND JAN. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THIS is a fortunate influence, as it tends to make
your mind very alert and may bring you decided
success. You may be more courageous and enter-
prising, and thereby bring about some marked
benefits. You may very likely make some new
friendships or you may have a better understanding
with old ones. Your judgment may be much more
reserved and less likely to impulsiveness. Your
character will certainly be strengthened and it is
the time to attempt to realize desires and wishes
that you may have felt for some time in the past.
You are apt to be very much more temperate in the
exercise of your judgment, and in your business
activities, as well as socially. You may seek ful-
filment of projects and experience beneficial
results. Financial matters take on new life and
you may expect preferment a:nd promotion, as
well as financial gain in connection with your
home and business life. Your health will greatly
improve and you may plan or take journeys with
successful outcome. Love affairs may prosper and
you may have added pleasure through the heart
interests.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
M ay, J uly ,
August
z929
August, November
z930
April, J uly
I9JI
J uly , October
z932
M arch, April,
J une, December
188 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN DEc. 21sT AND JAN. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and 1mfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
June,
October through
December
r929
April, M ay,
September, October
r930
January, February,
May, June,
September, October
r93r
March, August,
September
r932
January, May,
September
THis influence brings about a period in your life
when you are very likely to be over-active and
your judgment is not likely to be at its best. You
may be overly-enthusiastic even aggressive, and
thereby incur the enmity of those people who may
be of help to you at other times. You may be more
independent in spirit, but at the expense of anta-
gonizing those who are near and dear to you,
particularly people who are in power or authority.
It is not a favorable aspect uncfer which to further
affairs in general, but as Mars is fast in motion,
and this year is a particularly good one for you, any
friction would be of short duration. Important
chan,ges or travels, especially by water, should
not be undertaken at this time, and you should
exercise your judgment and avoid throwing dis-
cretion to the winds. You should pay particular
attention to your digestion, so that you do not
suffer in any way through the stomach. H you own
property, you may have some temporary difficulty
through it and litigation should be avoided. You
should be cautious of personal risk, since Mars
gives liabilities to accidents and feverish con-
plaints. Be calm and poised in all your dealings.
You may be annoyed through your connections
with older people.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN DEc. 21sT AND JAN. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THis is a very prosperous and successful time, when
most things may go well with you. You are very
likely to be much more hopeful than you have
been in the past and thereby capable of seeing
clearly the best course to adopt for success and
advancement in life, although some restrictions
may appear. Under this influence you are more
likely to obtain your desires and your ambitions
may be well favored. You may gain new friends,
particularly is this so from a social and business
standpoint. It is a favorable influence under which
to form partnerships but it is essential that you
avoid unexpected upsets and be prepared to meet
them. People entering your life at this time will
have a steadying influence upon you and you may
find that younger people may contact you and
prove of benefit to you. You will at this time be
more practical and therefore much more capable
of holding your own counsel. It is a good vibration
under which to plan for the future and begin to
save money as the opportunity for building up is
very marked at this time. If you own property
you may receive some benefits through it. It is a
most propitious period for dealing in land or ship-
ping or mining. You may find that most conditions
will seem to work out to your general advantage
and as this is a most constructive period of your
life, you should plan to utilize it in every possible
way. Your emotions will be under fine control and
therefore at your best in the selection of friends.
It is a most favorable influence for marriage as it
is very apt to be lasting. Love affairs and friend-
ships mane during this time may prove beneficial
but you must be fortified to overcome the unex-
pected.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
From June
through December
r929
From January
through June
r932
From September
through December
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN DEc. 2IST AND ]AN. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS :
r928
May
r930
July through
December .
rgp
From January
throttgh July
You are now under unfortunate vibrations. You
are very likely to suffer through the health. Pay
particular attention to your digestion and the
teeth. It would be wise for you to go on a diet
during this aspect, as the intestines are likely to be
over-sensitive. Financial matters may prove a
source of annoyance to you and you may experience
the unexpected during this time, particularly where
real estate and personal holdings are involved. It ·
is an unfavorable influence under which to make
changes of any kind. You may suffer through your
superiors in some way and it would not be wise
for you to antagonize people especially those con-
nected with business or political interests. Do
nothing that may involve you with the law and
refrain froin litigation in any way. You may be
separated from those people near and dear to you.
It is not at all unlikely that you experience some
grave sorrow. Any journeys taken at this time
should be carefully thought over in advance as in
some way they may prove disappointing. Love
affairs may cause you anxiety and it would be wise
to hold in abeyance the furthering of any heart
interests. H you are married you may experience
difficulties in some way through the marriage
partner. As Jupiter will shortly again be in favor-
able aspect in your chart you may have an oppor-
tunity to overcome your difficulties through an
amicable arrangement and understanding.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN DEc. 21sT AND ]AN. 20TH
Indicating favorahle and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
Tms is more or less an unfortunate influence. You
may have a great many more problems confronting
you, particularly those of a sorrowful or grievous
nature. You may experience difficulties that will
worry you in every way. You should be most care-
ful in all of your actions at this time,-especially in
your mental attitude toward others, as you are
very likely to suffer disappointment and be affected
by those closely connected with you. This vibra-
tion may separate you from loved ones in some
manner. It is not an auspicious time in which to
undertake any commitments, particularly those
pertaining to business ventures. You are apt to
suffer criticism from the general public and from
those intimately concerned with you. Your
mother's affairs may prove a source of annoyance
in some way, and it would be unwise to further
matters that have been lying dormant and awaiting
completion. Rather busy yourself with routine
matters and let well-enough alone. As this is a
most trying influence, affairs of the heart can bring
you nothing but disappointment, as you are likely
to be in opposition with your better nature and
therefore much less magnetic. Losses are bound to
accrue to you. Avoid arguments, and in every way
govern all your activities, by using common sense
and giving every matter, regardless of how trivial
it may seem, your utmost attention. You can solve
many of the J?Owerful influences of this vibration,
by right application of thought.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE. FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r929
April
r930
All year
r9p
All year
r932
January, February,
September, October,
November
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN DEc. 21sT AND JAN. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
From z928
through z932
THIS is an unfavorable aspect and is likely to bring
you sudden difficulties, unexpected delays and
upsets. Your magnetism will be at low ebb and
thereby cause you to attract to you the more un-
desirable elements, and recognition from people in
high office may cause difficulties. This condition
brings sudden gains and losses in business and if
you are an employee you may expect increase in
salary and be disappointed at the fast moment, so
do not anticipate. lt is unfavorable for handling
affairs in general as the mind is very quick and
active and hasty in difficulties; therefore refrain
from attempting new interests. It also tends to
make you impractical and you require perception
in handling affairs. Interests in general take activ-
ity and enthusiasm but difficulties are apparent.
Do not further matters to the utmost as you are
likely to be over-enthusiastic and ideas may prove
detrimental to you later on. The affairs of some
elderly man closely connected with you may bring
upsets at this time. Your mental condition will be
greatly stimulated but you require rest and quiet.
New friendships and acquaintances and heart in-
terests may cause annoyance. A great majority of
marriages will be consummated under these influ-
ences but with difficulties. Females in particular
may make some very interesting friendships but
the unexpected is likely to be encountered. Use
discretion and faith and you can overcome any
trying situation.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 93
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN DEc. 21sT AND JAN. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THIS is a most favorable influence-a period of
contentment. The emotions will be highly stirred
and the musical, and other faculties, will be strong-
ly awakened. During this aspect you may be
fortunate in your ventures, either through business
or social affairs. Interests through your home
relationships will very likely cause you to experi-
ence a peculiar frame of mind. If you find yourself
in any way a " doubting Thomas," busy yourself
-keep occupied constantly. It is a favorable
condition under which to adjust any misunder-
standings that you may have had. Partnerships,
transactions, may be looked upon favorably. If
you are married you may look for happier condi-
tions; even though separation seems imminent and
actually occurs, do not worry, as you will profit
in the end. Avoid to the greatest extent self-indul-
gence.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
From September
through December
r929
From January
through March;
From July through
December
r930
All year
I9JI
All year
r932
Allyear
1 94 THE REAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN ]AN. 21sT AND FEB. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from I928 through I9J2, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHs DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I928
June, September
I929
From January
through March;
September, October,
December
I9JO
May, June,
Augttst
I9JI
August, November,
December
I9J2
May, July,
August
THIS is a fortunate influence. You may be more
active mentally and physically than has been the
case for some time in the past. Many matters of
a demanding or exacting nature may arise. Your
mind at this time being active, sharp and prompt
in thought will bring assistance in all your affairs.
Encourage those people with whom you may come
in contact and make the most of a very brief good
influence. Mars being so fast in motion, you will
have only a short time in which to put all your
efforts into action and obtain your desires. It is a
fortunate time in which to ask favors of friends.
You may, however, be a trifle aggressive and the
desire to do too many things and scatter your
energies should be checked. Any journeys taken
at this time are likely to prove more fortunate
than at other times. It is a particularly successful
influence for people who are connected with the
public in any way, or with newspapers, politics,
writings, etc. It is a good period in which to make
contracts or agreements, as you are less likely to
meet with opposition than at other times. Your
health will be better and you may feel inclined to
partake of enjoyments, but do not go to excess.
Financial matters may improve and you may also
have some advance in your work. This aspect,
however, will be greatly modified by other vibra-
tions prevailing during this period.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 95
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JAN. 2.IST AND FEB. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
UNDER this influence you should pay particular
attention to all matters of interest that may arise
either naturally or through your own efforts. It
would not be wise for you to attempt to further
any important projects as your judgment will not
be at its best. Either you will be reckless or com-
bative, or in some way you will not be able to
exercise your best judgment. You may, however, be
very energetic and active and it may bring dealings
with people who are in high office or connected
with the government. It is not a favorable time in
which to take risks in financial matters. You may
feel greatly inclined toward excess in pleasure of
all kinds, so govern yourself accordingly. This
influence may separate you from friends, due pri-
marily to your own belligerent moods at this
time, so avoid antagonizing those people whom
you regard, or hope to regard, as friends. It is not
a favorable influence under which to travel or to
make removals. You will have to exercise self-
control in all of your dealings. Love affairs may
cause you an unusual amount of anxiety, so handle
this aspect with great caution. If you are married
and have children, you may experience some diffi-
culties through them.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r928
July and August
r929
June, July,
November
r930
March, July,
November,
December
I9JI
January, February:
April through
Jtme; October
r932
February, June,
October, November
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JAN. 2.IST AND FEB. 2.0TH
Indicating favorableand unfavorable periods from I928 through I9J2, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
T HE FOLLOWIN G
YEARS:
I928
M ay
I929
From July
through December
I9JO
From January
through June
THis is a favorable time in your life. It is very likely
that new ideas may formulate themselves which
may be furthered with ease. You are under more
pleasant vibrations than has been the case for some
time, but, owing to the other planetary influences,
this aspect may merely tide you over what might
otherwise be a rather trying epoch. You may have
some financial gains or preference in the way of
promotions in connection with your work, but
due to the influence of Saturn, it may be some time
before you can realize actual benefit. Your sur-
roundings will prove a greater stimulation to you
and some happiness will accrue to you, caused
by your daily contacts. You may be greatly stim-
ulated in artistic affairs, also literary matters. This
is the time to incorporate a definite system for the
cultivation of your mind by the reading of good
literature and indulging in the fine arts. You are
now more magnetic and dealings with those
people who may be in a position to render you
assistance, may bring benefits. Any new friends or
people coming into your life at this time may
prove helpful. Heart affairs and love interests will
take on a new life with pleasant reactions for you
as a result. You may meet the one person in the
world capable of understanding you. If married,
your home conditions will prove brighter. This is
a favorable time for consummating romances in
marriage. Any dealings with public organizations
or contact with the public in any way would bring
you preferment and honor. This providing you are
not under Saturn or Neptune at this time.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN ]AN. 2.IST AND FEB. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THIS is a period in your life when your financial
affairs may cause you unusual stress. It is there-
fore, necessary that you watch your expenditures
and that you curb any tendency toward extrava-
gance. It is likely to bring unexpected pressure on
your material good and place obligations upon
you that are depleting. You may find should you
be engaged in litigation of any kind, difficulty in
arriving at a settlement; therefore do not involve
yourself in legal matters. Some irritation regarding
finances may be encountered through inheritance
and it is advisable to make adjustment wherever
possible while under this aspect. Trusted friends
may seem unreasonable at this time and you should
avoid being too critical. Romantic interests may
prove disappointing and you may subject yourself
to disparagement unless you are particularly
cautious in your contact with people, especially
so, if you are interested in dealing with the public,
or in any public ventures. Avoid arguments where
your heart affairs are concerned; otherwise, you
may cause estrangement, bringing worry and dis-
illusionment in its train. In your business affairs,
it would be wise for you to curb the tendency to
go to extremes in finances. It is not a period during
which you should make changes in your home life
or in your business. Be circumspect of new friend-
ships and do not be overly-confident in any affairs
involving finances.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
Ig28
From July
through December
I929
From January
through June
I9JI
From Attgust
through December
1932
From Janttary
through Attgust
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN JAN. 2.IST AND FEB. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS :
r928
Allyear
r929
.January, Febrttary,
March; From June
through November
THIS is a very good influence; an important one in
which you are very likely to be strengthened both
in your character and in your will and desire nature.
You may meet with people much older than your-
self and your mind will be steady, more capable of
handling the titanic influences that may greet you
during this period. You should do all in your
power to place yourself in positions of trust or
where the future may be secured. This aspect is
auspicious for business; your mind being sincere,
you are capable of handling matters of great
importance. In the home life you may experience
better times, and your health should improve.
There is a tendency toward your being particularly
attracted toward speculation and to have strong
gambling tendencies which if handled carefully
might result in gain for you. You may have a keen
desire for pleasures and if partaken of wisely they
will stimulate your mind and make you much more
magnetic. You are at this time particularly sensi-
tive where the love nature plays an important
part, and you should exercise great care, so that
the desire for gratification does not overcome your
better judgment. You will probably be more at
ease and experience a feeling of friendship with the
world in general. Not only will your love affairs
take on new life but success will attend you in
affairs of the heart. H you are married you may
expect much better conditions through your home
lite. Dealings with the public, also business ven-
tures where tact and dipfomacy are the vital essen-
tials, will bring you marked success and you should
strive to interest yourself in social affairs, meet
people, go about and make yourself generally
acquainted and any functions that bring you direct-
ly or indirectly with the masses are sure to end in
ultimate success for you.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 1 99
IF y OU WERE BORN BETWEEN ]AN. 2.IST AND FEB. 2.0TH
Indicating favorable .and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THIS is a rather trying period for you. You are
likely to be depressed and given to moods. Condi-
tions of a disturbing nature may make themselves
felt, and you may find it necessary to put forth
greater effort than is customary in order to achieve
or accomplish adequate results for your labors.
You may experience some disturbing conditions
through friends or associates, and should be par-
ticularly cautious in your everyday relations. If
so-called barriers present themselves, remember
that all people are human and are subject to idio-
syncrasies, and make allowance for them, as under
this vibration you are very likely to magnify
conditions and cause yourself needless worry.
Guard your health and watch your diet, also the
health of older people connected with you in your
domestic life. H conditions arise that are beyond
your control, you must realize that what is, is
best, and that as long as you are doing the best
within your ability and are conscientious the law
of compensation will mete out your reward. Take
no unnecessary risks financially, and make no
changes that can possibly be avoided. New friends
made under this influence can not be especially
relied upon, and some difficulty may arise through
them. Think well before severing any existing ties.
Have a great amount of faith and keep in mind the
fact that you can make your life what you will,
and that while the stars incline they do not compel;
you are the master of your own destiny.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I9J2
From March
through August,
December
200 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN ]AN. 21sT AND FEB. 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
From z928
throttgh z932
THIS is a very good influence, but the activity of
this vibration is very sudden in its nature and
preparedness is essential. You must do everything
within your power to grasp opportunities that
may arise directly or indirectly, through your own
efforts. You will during this vibration be much
more courageous, more enterprising, and far more
confident in your own ability than at other times
and be possessed of a magnetism hitherto unknown
throug!i. which you may attract success to yourself.
It will give you however an adventurous spirit and
you may come into contact with people who will
stir you both mentally and physically. You may
give way to the feelings a great deal and if you
feel in any way inclined to take a journey, you
may meet the one person in the world to help you
or benefit you. Financial matters may take on a
very active turn and you may at this time make
increase in your holdings. The action of Uranus
being unexpected, it is certain to at least cause you
to have a very active period. If you are in any way
connected with the public or political life, this is
the time to forge ahead and try to attain your
desires. Caution however, is the keynote for you
during this period. Much ground can be covered
for your future welfare if you will be active in
your operations and attend to every possible oppor-
tunity.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 2.01
IF y OU WERE BORN BETWEEN FEB. 2.IST AND MARCH 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
You are now under favorable influences. Your
mind will be steady and patient but you will re-
quire unusual fortitude to overcome the situation
likely to confront you. You may be unduly persis-
tent however, almost bordering on obstinacy,
during this vibration. Your mind should be more
stimulated and it is an auspicious time under which
to further affairs, provided you do not attempt to
overdo matters. Great caution is necessary in
business associations, also with regard to the
health. You may with very careful consideration
make some important changes or gain some money.
The action of Mars being so fast, you should strive
to " nip things in the bud " during this brief
auspicious time. You may be stirred emotionally
ancf it is a very good time for dealing with people
at large. You may gain through partnership or
marriage and you are less likely to meet with
opposition than at other times. Home affairs are
harmonious, business should progress and if you
are in any way dealing with the public, you may
look for activity that is not entirely satisfactory
and must be coped with. Be circumspect in all
activities and do not attempt the impossible.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
Ig28
July, Augttst;
From October to
December
I929
April, May,
November
I9JO
January, February,
July, September,
October
I9JI
March, October
I9J2
January, June,
September
202. THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN FEB. 2.IST AND MARCH 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorahle periods from z928 throttgh z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
. YEARS:
z928
May, September
z929
January, February,
March, August,
December
I9JO
April, August
I9JI
July, November,
December
I9J2
March, April,
July, August,
December
You may suffer in some way through obstacles
and incur enmity and criticism from those closely
connected with you. Things of a hidden or unfair
nature may be brought to bear upon you and you
may find it necessary to overcome upsets. Your
judgment may require balancing, as you are likely
to vacillate in your opinions and be irresolute and
in this way incur losses. You should be sure that
you do not implicate yourself or make some state-
ment that may hinder you later in life. Avoid liti-
gation and keep/our belligerent tendencies under
control. It woul be wise for you to exercise cau-
tion during this aspect, particularly in your busi-
ness associations. Pay particular attention to your
health and take no risks of any kind, as your
physical organism may be more sensitive at this
time and therefore requires better care. It is not
an auspicious time for you to make changes or
removals of any kind, since your judgment may
not be at its best. This may prove a very trying
period in your life and it would be wise for you to
attend to routine affairs and await a more favorable
influence to further any heartfelt desires, indulging
in music, taking more rest and sleep than at other
times and keeping your mind active with the read-
ing of constructive literature, which will prove
very beneficial.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 203
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN FEB. 21sT AND MARCH 2.0TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable period.r from 1928 through 1932, inclu.rive
Tms is a very favorable influence for you and
denotes one of the most active and preferred times
of your life. You have reached the epoch in your
activities since the last twelve years. Anything of
reasonable nature that you may attempt may
prove to be beneficial to. you. There is, however,
an aSJ?CCt of Saturn operating during this year
requiring great caution and you must not permit
a brief space of favorable activity to mar your
judgment. Financial matters will come greatly to
the front and you may expect some gain through
the many activities but not without delay and
difficulty. You may at this time form lasting at-
tachments and become linked in some way with
people that may prove helpful. It is a most advan-
tageous time in which to take some journey, that
may bring you marked benefit. This is an uplifting
period and religious matters may come greatly to
the front. You may be more philosophical in
thought and wiser in your actions than at any
other time of your life. It is essentially the time
to be up and doing and to seek to increase your
material goods in a way that may prove of great
advantage to you later on in life. You will find
that your home conditions will improve greatly
and should there be any sorrow in your home life
things will certainly begin to clear up for you. If
you are in any way to receive legacies or gifts, this
would be about the time for it. Love affairs take on
new life and you may expect some activity in this
direction. Your health should in every way im-
prove also the health of female members of your
family, and you will require additional care and
exercise because of Saturn at this time.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
1928
From June
through December
1929
From January
through June
1930
From July
through December
1931
From January
through July
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN FEB. 2.IST AND MARCH 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from r928 through r932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
r929
From July
through December
r930
From January
through June
r932
From September
through December
DuRING this period it is necessary that you be
circumspect in all your undertakings. Do not be
over-confident and it would be to your advantage
not to consider the gain until you actually have
it. It is time when your health must be closely
guarded and the greatest caution exercised in your
contacts. If you are doing public work of any kind
then it is certainly necessary that you keep as far
from the limelight as possible and rather be the
power behind the throne during this period, doing
nothing which may in any way involve you
legally. You may find that separations from people
close to you may cause you difficulties and annoy-
ance and it is not at all unlikely that you may
experience some sorrow through your home ties.
Be circumspect about what you put, in writing,
particularly in the signing of legaf documents and
ao not take too much for granted. Journeys may
prove annoying and may not bring the proper
return for the expenditure involved. If you are
married you may experience some difficulties
through the home ties either through relatives or
direct. Romances and love interests may prove
disappointing and require handling. Do not anta-
gonize people nor become over-buoyant of any
sudden experiences which may on the surface seem
beneficial. Curtail your expenditures to meet your
income.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN FEB. 21sT AND MARCH 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
You are now under vibrations that make it pos-
sible for you to use the best judgment in your
personal affairs. This is a steadying period in your
life-one in which you should make every effort
toward mental and material advancement. You
may either gain promotion or undertake some
added responsibilities in connection with your
home or business ventures. Opportunities may
arise making it possible for you to settle into a
much more fixed and harmonious position in life.
You will be more thoughtful and serious, and
desirous of carrying out routine matters and every-
day duties without hesitation. You may make new
friendships or may become more closely associated
with old and standing ties. It is a propitious period
in which to ask favors of older people to further
yourself in every conceivable way. Your credit
may improve and you may be given some recogni-
tion in the sphere in which you move, or some
added honors which may advance your interests.
Do everything you possibly can, in your home
life, your business, and financial affairs to put
matters on as permanent and substantial a basis as
possible. Do not allow this epoch-making period
in your life to pass without obtaining for yourself
some improvement, even though the consummation
of it may not be quickly realized.
lHE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
I929
April
I9JO
All year
I9JI
All year
I9J2
January, February,
September, October,
November
206 THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM
IF y OU WERE BORN BETWEEN FEB. 2IST AND MARCH 20TH
Indicating favorable and unfavorable periods from z928 through z932, inclusive
THE FOLLOWING
MoNTHS DuRING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
z928
All year
z929
January, February,
March; From June
through November
You are now under unfavorable conditions. Mat-
ters will seem to go wrong and unpleasant events
will succeed in making their presence felt. This
planetary condition causes anxiety of mind and
the dread of things to come, thereby causing un-
settling conditions and hindering success and
activities. There may be losses through relations
or trouble concerning them. Your health is very
likely to cause you to suffer some peculiar nervous
disorders unless you absolutely govern yourself
and avoid impulsive actions. You are apt to rush
headlong into disputes and arguments, particularly
those pertaining to religious beliefs and those
involvmg finances, bringing the greatest difficulty
since they may seem to be abundant and still the
outgo may greatly exceed the income. As this is
a period of so-called malign influences, matters of
importance should be postponed. Foreign interests
may hold your attention, but no particular benefit
may result. A foreign journey at this time would not
meet with the desired success. It is certainly not ad-
visable to accept or contemplate any proposals of
marriage during this period as only disappointment
can accrue you as a result unless Jupiter also is
aspecting you, in which event some benefits may
arise through the vicissitudes of environment.
You will have to dominate the mind, particularly
where financial matters and the affections are con-
cerned, by the sheer force of your personality and
better judgment, since, through understanding,
situations are solved.
THE HEAVENS PROCLAIM 207
IF You WERE BoRN BETWEEN FEB. 21sT AND MARCH 20TH
Indicating favorahle and unfavorahle periods from Ig28 through Ig32, inclusive
THIS is perhaps one of the most subtle influences in
your life. You may find that adventures of a
peculiar nature tend to involve you and you must
exercise caution that you are not taken advantage
of. You are likely to be extremely imaginative and
dreamy and it will take all your efforts to concen-
trate on any projects which may be claiming your
attention at this time. You must avoid all risks
and should pay particular attention to your health,
especially the nervous system. Your friends may
dwindle away or in some way be a source of annoy-
ance to you. You should not take things too liter-
ally, nor disregard your health at this time. It is
not a propitious time to make changes, as they
may not prove advantageous. You may meet new
friends but no marked benefits can be hoped for,
although you may experience some lleasure
through them. You must particularly guar against
deceit or under-handedness through this source.
Your love interests are apt to keep you in state of
uncertainty and misunderstandings are likely to
occur. You may also experience difficulties through
your work, particularly if connected with the
public in any way. This is the time to attend to
routine matters and you should await a more
favorable time to attempt to bring about the
realization of your hopes and wishes.
THE FOLLOWING
MONTHS DURING
THE FOLLOWING
YEARS:
Ig28
From September
through December
I929
From January
through March;
From July
through December
I9JO
Allyear
I9JI
Allyear
I9J2
Allyear
