{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__spalding___life_and_teachings_of_the_masters_of_the_far_east____v2.pdf","mytitle":"Life And Teachings Of The Masters Of The Far East","mylang":"de"}
LIFE AND TEACHING OF THE
MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
VOLUME II
CALIFORNIA PRESS
Publishers
Broadway and San so m e Streets
San F rancisco, California
Co py rig h t, 1927
BY
BAIRD T. SPALDING
All Rights Reserved
Paper Binding—$1.50
Cloth Binding—$2.00
FOREWORD
I
N publishing this, the Second Volume of Life
and Teaching of the Masters of the Far East,
I am purposely omitting names of both people
and places. I am able to state that I fully expect
the research work which we undertook will he
brought to a final conclusion within the next three
years and I believe that a full and detailed report
of the proceedings and findings will be published,
including maps, names of places and their loca­
tion, photographs and a record of the time and
place where they were secured.
Although it may seem to have consumed a long
time to complete what might appear a simple
problem, the handicaps to rapid progress have
been considerable. Chief among them has been
lack of funds for a vigorous prosecution of the
excavation work, as the verification of the major
portion of the data secured depended upon the
completion of this work. As the matter now
stands, I feel that I am at liberty to withhold
names of places and locations, according the
reader the privilege of accepting as fact or fiction
as you deem expedient the accounts set forth
herein. Remarking only that facts are at times
more astonishing than fiction.
The three associates who are still in India have
stated it is their belief that all data thus far
secured will be so fully verified that there will be
no cause for withholding full publication of all
maps, including definite locations and details, but
withholding all personalities, inso-far as the per­
sons have made the request.
At the time of taking up this work it was
definitely understood that nothing should be pub­
lished officially or otherwise until the work had
progressed to the degree where deductions could
be reached regarding the life and teaching of these
people.
With the above statements fixed firmly in mind,
I am presenting for the reader’s consideration the
Life and Teaching of the Masters of the Far East,
Vol. II.
In this I sincerely and with all respect remind
the reader that the more one takes to a book, the
more one receives.
(Signed) Baird T. Spalding
CHAPTER I
HE morning of January 1st found us up
early with faculties alert. Everyone seemed
to feel that there was something ahead that
would make our past experiences but stepping
stones for those to come.
As we gathered around the table for breakfast,
the friend we had met on the roof of Emil’s home
in the little village where we had stopped while on
our way here joined us. You will recall him as the
one who interpreted my dream. After exchanging
greetings he said, “You have been with us for more
than a year. You have traveled and lived with us
and shared our lives and you no doubt have con­
fidence in us. As you will be with us until April
or May, I have come to invite you to go to the
temple of the Great Tau Cross, which you have
observed is cut in the rock of the cliff just outside
of the village.”
We found afterwards that the rooms of this
temple were cut from the rock that formed a per­
pendicular cliff over six hundred feet high. The
openings that formed the rooms were cut deep
enough into the walls so that all four walls were
of rock. Wherever it was necessary to place
windows to admit light and air, openings had been
cut through the outer wall of the cliff which faced
south, so of necessity all the openings faced south.
The openings for the windows were about eight
feet square and each room had two openings,
except the first or lower room. This room had
only one opening, which communicated with a
large crevice that was worn in the rock wall just
east of the temple. When the rooms of the temple
were cut from the rock, this room had no opening
other than the entrance which was from a tunnel
[3]
cut from the solid rock and terminating in the
crevice mentioned. The opening for the window
was put in later. Originally the entrance to the
tunnel was hidden under a great boulder that was
one of a mass that had fallen from the sides of
the cliff and lodged on a projecting shelf and this
boulder had been so arranged that it could be
dropped into place from the passageway and
when in place it could not be moved from the
outside. The only way of reaching this shelf was
by a ladder about fifty feet long that could be
raised or lowered from above. The openings that
served as windows were fitted with great flat
stones that fitted into grooves at the bottom, so
that they could be slid into place. When they
were in place there was no appearance of an
opening, to one standing in the village. We were
told that this construction was resorted to for
protection from the marauding bands that in­
fested the country farther north. These bands at
times came as far south as this village. The
village had been destroyed a number of times but
the people had not been harmed as they could
take refuge in the temple. This temple had not
been built by our friends but had been acquired
by them from the villagers to be used as a place
to keep numerous records which they prized very
highly. After the acquisition of the temple by our
friends, the raids ceased, the village had not been
molested and they all lived in peace.
It is claimed that some of these records date
back to the period of man’s advent upon this
earth; that these records are those of the Naacals,
or Holy Brothers, as they were called and that
they came direct from the Motherland of Man.
It is also claimed that these Holy Brothers came
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[4]
direct to Burmah and taught the Nagas. These
records seem to prove that the forefathers of these
people were the authors of the Sourya Siddhanta
and the Earlier Vedas. The Sourya Siddhanta is
the oldest known work on astronomy. These
records place it back 35,000 years, the Earlier
Vedas they place back 45,000 years. They do not
claim that these are all originals as some were
copied from the originals and brought here to
preserve them. They claim that these were copied
from the same records that the Babylonian records
were taken from. They also claim that the
originals from which these were copied are the
original Osirian and Atlantean records.
The rooms of this temple were arranged one
above the other for seven stories and communi­
cation between the rooms was by means of a series
of stone steps cut in the solid rock. The opening
to gain access to the stairway was at one corner of
the room and communicated directly with the
stairway which rose at an angle of forty-five
degrees until it reached a landing about eight feet
square where the entrance to the room above was
cut. There was about eight feet of solid rock left
between the ceiling of the room below and the
floor of the room above. The ceiling of the upper
room of the seventh story terminated about twelve
feet below a wide jutting ledge of rocks about one
hundred feet from the top of the precipice. A
stairway led from this room up through an open­
ing that communicated with the center room of
the five rooms that were cut from the wall of the
ledge and arranged two on each side of the center
room, so that a diagram of the whole structure
would represent a huge Tau Cross.
The rooms above were cut so that the ledge
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[5]
formed a porch or balcony, and the entrances
were from the ledge. The cliff was a soft coarse­
grained granite. The work was evidently done
with crude hand implements and it must have
taken years to accomplish. It is claimed that not
a piece of timber was used when the temple was
constructed. After it was acquired by our friends,
they put in timber and the rooms were all very
comfortable, especially on sunshiny days.
We learned that since they had acquired the
temple the windows had never been closed nor
the entrance barred, yet very few had ever visited
there unless they had seen and knew something of
the true spiritual enlightenment.
Our friend continued, “This day is to you the
beginning of a new year with the time that is
lapsed through the old and passed out as it were,
from your life, never to return except possibly in
thought as the memory of its pleasures, its sorrows
and cares, and the more engrossing thoughts of
business come flooding back. Aside from that
it is forgotten, gone; to you a page torn from the
year book of your life. We look upon it as a
period of attainment and added triumph, an on­
going, a span carrying us on to a more glorious
development and achievement; a time of greater
promise and enlightenment; a time when we can
be of greater service; when we can be younger,
stronger, and more loving from each succeeding
experience. Your thought is, ‘Why?’ Our answer
is to draw your own conclusion, choose your own
life.”
Our Chief said, without any thought of intrud­
ing, “We wish to see and know.”
Our friend resumed, “From this time on, there
are definite lessons for those that do not see and
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[6]
know, or grasp the full meaning of the goal of a
life well lived. This does not mean a life of
asceticism and austerity and aloofness or sadness.
This means a life of accomplishment in joy and
gladness, where all sorrow, all pain is banished
forever.”
Then in a lighter and more whimsical mood he
said, “You have expressed a desire to see and
know. The desire is no sooner expressed than it
is fulfilled. The thought expressed in a verse in
your Bible comes to me as I look over this assem­
bly. The’ words are, ‘Where two or three are
gathered together in My Name, there will I be
also?’ How often that verse has been looked upon
as a mere play upon words, instead of being taken
home and being made really true. The great error
you have made with Jesus’ teachings is, you have
consigned them to the dim and misty past, looking
upon them as mythical and mystical, pointing to
something that may be gained after death, instead
of knowing that they can be applied in the daily
lives of all, right here and now, if you only will.
“We wish it to be understood that we are not
putting forth the claim that Jesus, as the Christ,
represented a plane or condition of life in his own
realization that had not been brought forth to a
greater or less degree by a great many seers and
prophets of other times and peoples. We wish to
emphasize his life, as that life is the one you can
understand more fully. The specific reference to
his own life can have hut one purpose and mean­
ing and that was the faith-inspiring fact that his
life and experience was the living demonstration
of his teachings. The speculative dogma of vicari­
ous atonement, which has biased Christian thought
for centuries, can not be charged to the author of
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[7]
the Sermon on the Mount, or the Parable of the
Prodigal Son.
“The leaders of Christian thought have diverted
the followers of Jesus and his teachings from their
practical application and the study of the God
power. They have taught them to look upon his
teachings as the experiences of the Apostles after
his time, instead of teaching them that the law
upon which they were based was an exact science
which could be understood and experienced in the
lives of all.
“The Orientals have made the scientific phase of
their religion the supreme object of their study
and attainment. In this they have gone to the
other extreme. In this way both have consigned
their religion to the miraculous and supernatural.
The one has become absorbed in the wholly ethi­
cal, while the other has become absorbed in the
scientific side only. Thus both have shut out the
true spiritual.
“The monastic life of retirement and asceticism
and seclusion from the world, whether in Budd­
histic or Christian monasteries, is neither a neces­
sity nor the method of attaining true spiritual
enlightenment and the realization of the perfect
life of true wisdom and power brought forth in
and by Jesus.
“These systems have been in existence for many
thousands of years, yet they have in no wise
approximated the uplift of the common people
as did the teachings of Jesus in the few short years
of his time here on earth.
“It is very well known that he embraced all of
their teachings, going through the initiations and
studying the so-called sacred mysteries, the ritual­
istic forms and ceremonies until he came to the
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[8]
teachings of Osiris. These were interpreted to
him by a priest who had held himself aloof from
all the ritualistic, monastic and materialistic
forms of worship.
“This priest was a follower of King Thoth of the
First Dynasty of the Egyptian Kings. That which
was afterwards known as the Egyptian Empire
was brought to its high state of culture and attain­
ment under Osiris and his followers. These people
were the pure white race and afterwards were
known as the Israelites to whom the Hebrew race
attached itself. When King Thoth declared Egypt
an empire, he did it under the power of an
usurper and dictator of the peoples’ rights. The
people centuries before had built up and main­
tained a glorious civilization of unity and brother­
hood under the guidance and direction of Osiris
and his followers. Thoth ruled wisely and at­
tempted to maintain the Osirian teachings but the
material and dark concept crept in as the Egyp­
tian or dark hordes from the south, who had swept
him into power, gained sway. The succeeding
dynasties fell away from Osirian teachings, gradu­
ally took up the dark concept of the dark race and
finally practiced black magic entirely. The king­
dom soon fell, as all such kingdoms must fall.
“After Jesus had listened attentively to this
priest and his teachings, he saw their deep, inner
meaning. He also saw, from the slight insight he
had received from the Buddhistic teachings that
he had from the so-called Wise Men of the East,
that there was a great similarity underlying them
all. He then determined to go to India, which was
quite practical over the old caravan route main­
tained at that time.
“After studying the Buddhistic teachings which
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[9]
had been preserved with a reasonable degree of
purity, he saw the similarity of the two. He saw
that in spite of the ritualistic forms and dogmas
that had been imposed by man, religion had but
one source and that was God, Whom he designated
as his Father and the Father of all. Then he
threw all forms to the winds, as it were, and went
directly to God, went straight to the heart of this
loving Father. Then see the wonderful attain­
ment. He soon found that this did not take long
years of weary plodding through dogmas, rituals,
creeds, formulas and initiations which the priest­
hood were foisting upon the people in order to
hold them in ignorance and therefore in subjec­
tion. He saw that the thing for which he was
seeking was right within himself. He saw that in
order to be the Christ he must declare that he
was the Christ, then with pure motive of life,
thought, word and deed he must live the life he
sought, in order to incorporate it within his own
physical body. Then, after perceiving this, he had
the courage to go out and declare it to all the
world.
“It did not matter from whom or where he got
it. It was the work that counted, not what some
one had done, but what he did that counted. The
common people, whose cause he sponsored, heard
him gladly. He did not borrow his precepts from
India, Persia, or Egypt. Their teachings were but
the outer that brought him to see his own Godhead
and the Christ, the representation, that was in
everyone; not in a few, but in all.
“Osiris was born in Atlantis more than thirty-
five thousand years ago. The chroniclers of his
life, long after his time, called him a god because
of his wonderful works. He was a direct descend-
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[10]
ant of those of higher thought who had kept their
concepts clear in the Motherland of Man.
“It was so of the greater portion of all the
mythological characters that have been brought
down to us. Their works and characters have
been distorted by repetition and translation. Their
works and attainments were looked upon as
supernatural by those who would not give them
the time and thought to go to the deeper meaning
and find that they were divinely natural to man
in his true dominion.
“The chroniclers deified Osiris, then they began
making images of him. These images only repre­
sented what he stood for, at first; then gradually
the images became fixed in the mind, the ideal
was forgotten, and the empty idol remained.
“Buddha was another that was deified by the
chroniclers long after his time. Note the images
of him that have been set up, with the result that
the image is worshipped instead of the ideal.
Again the empty idol. It is the same with signs
and symbols.
“The teachings that Buddha received came from
the same source as did those,of Osiris, but in a
different way. The teachings that Buddha con­
tacted came from the Motherland direct to Bur-
mah, brought there by the Naacals, while the
teachings that Osiris had came direct to him, as
his forefathers lived in the Motherland and when
he was a young man he went to the Motherland
and studied. After finishing his studies he returned
home, became the leader of the Atlanteans and
brought the people back to worship of God, as
they were gradually slipping back to the dark
concept, influenced by the dark races about them.
“Moses was another leader whose followers and
[11]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
chroniclers deified him after his time. He was an
Israelite and contacted the records of the Baby­
lonians and received his teachings from them.
These records form a part of your Bible. What
Moses saw and learned from these records was
written by him in the exact form and words. The
facts which he put down were badly distorted by
translators. I could go on and recall many more.
“Jesus saw and contacted all their teachings,
then in his characteristic manner he went to the
heart of them all, and went one step farther than
any of them did, by glorifying his body to the
point where he could allow them to crucify it; yet
he brought it forth in a triumphant resurrection.
“By studying the teachings of Osiris, Buddha
and Jesus, you will find them similar; in fact, at
times you will find the same words used. Yet
did any of them copy? The teachings showed
them the way from the outer to the inner. Then
they must have dropped all teaching, all copying,
and must have gone beyond it all. Had any of
them just copied and studied what they saw and
were taught, and then had not been able to see that
all was from God right within themselves, they
would have been studying yet, and their lives and
experiences would never have been recorded.
“They all went through the same experience in
that their followers wanted to crown them kings
of temporal kingdoms, but to this they would not
listen, each expressing the same thought in almost
the same words, ‘My kingdom is not of the ma­
terial, it is spiritual.’ With Osiris it went so far
that the later chroniclers placed him as an Egyp­
tian king.”
Here the talk ended and we all walked to the
temple. As we arrived in the lower room our
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[12]
friend began, “In ascending from room to room
of this temple, please remember that no man can
confer any rights upon another. By developing
your understanding you will find that you are the
equal of any man, and he who attempts to confer
his rights or what he has upon you, who has all
that he has, is not consistent, as he is attempting
to give what he cannot. One may point the way
to his brother that he may extend his vision to
incorporate the good, but he can not confer that
which he has upon him.”
By this time we had arrived in the second room,
where we found four of our friends from the vil­
lage had preceded us. After a few moments of
general talk, all were seated and our teacher
resumed. “There is not a character in all your
history that stands out as Jesus does. You count
your time before and after his birth. He is idol­
ized by a majority of your people and that is
where they err. Instead of the idol, he should
be the ideal; instead of making a graven image
of him he should be real and living to you, for he
actually lives today in the same body in which he
was crucified. He lives and can talk to you just
as he could before that event. The great error
with so many is that they see his life ending in
sorrow and death upon the cross, forgetting en­
tirely that the greater portion of his life is that
after the resurrection. He is able to teach and
heal, today, far more than he ever did before.
You can come into his presence at any time if
you will. If you seek you will find him. He is
not a king that can intrude his presence upon you,
but a mighty brother that stands ready always, to
help you and to help the world. When he lived
upon the mortal, earthly plane he was able to
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[13]
reach but a few. As he is today he is able to reach
all who will look to him.
“Did he not say ‘Where I am, there you may be
also?’ Does that mean that he is away in a place
called heaven that you must die to attain? He is
where you are, and he is able to walk and talk
with you. The only thing that you need do is to
let him. Lift your sight a little higher and let it
extend to a wider horizon and if your heart and
thought are sincerely with him, you will see him.
You may walk and talk with him. If you look
closely you will find the scars of the cross, the
spear and the thorns, all healed, all gone, and the
radiant love and happiness about him will tell
you that they are all forgotten, forgiven.”
Our friend stopped talking and all was deep
silence for the space of about five minutes. Then
the room lighted up with a brilliance that we had
not seen before. We heard a voice. At first it
seemed a long way olf and indistinct. After our
attention was attracted to it and our thoughts were
directed to it, the voice became very distinct and
rang out in clear bell-like tones.
One of our party asked, “Who is speaking?”
Our Chief said, “Please be silent. Our dear Master,
Jesus, is speaking.” Then one of our friends said,
“You are right, Jesus speaks.”
Then the voice went on, “When I said ‘I am the
way, the truth and the life,’ I did not intend to con­
vey the thought to mankind that I, myself, was the
only true light. I also said, ‘As many as are led
by the Spirit of God, they are Sons of God.’ When
I said, ‘I am the perfect Son, the only begotten Son
of God in whom the Father is well pleased,’ I fully
intended to convey the thought to all mankind that
one of God’s children saw, understood and claimed
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[14]
his divinity; saw that he lived, moved and had his
being in God, the great Father-Mother Principle of
all things, then spoke forth the word that he was
the Christ, the only begotten Son of God, and with
true heart and steadfast purpose lived the life, be­
came what he claimed to be. With his eyes fixed
upon that ideal he filled his whole body with that
ideal and the end sought was fulfilled.
“The reason so many have not seen me is be­
cause they have put me upon a shrine and placed
me in the unapproachable. They have surrounded
me with miracles and mystery, and again, they
have placed me far from the common people,
whom I love dearly. I love them with a love that
is unspeakable. I have not withdrawn from them,
they have withdrawn from me. They have set up
veils, walls and partitions, mediators and images
of myself and those so near and dear to me. Each
has surrounded us in myth and mystery until we
seem so far removed from these dear ones that
they do not know how to approach. They pray
and supplicate my dear mother and those that sur­
round me, and thus they hold us all in mortal
thought. When truly, if they would know us as we
are, they would and could shake our hands as you
have today. If they would drop all superstition
and creed and know us as we are, they could talk
to us as you do. We are no different at any time
than as you see us. How we would love to have
the whole world know this. Then what an awaken­
ing, what a reunion, what a feast!
“You have surrounded us so long in mystery it
is no wonder that doubt and disbelief have become
dominant. The more you build images and idols
and surround us with death and make us unap­
proachable, save through some other than our­
selves, the deeper the doubt and shadow will be
[15]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
cast and the chasm of superstition grow wider
and more difficult to cross. If you would boldly
shake our hands and say ‘I know you,’ then all
could see and know us as we are. There is no
mystery surrounding us, or those we love, for we
love the whole world.
“So many see only that part of my life that
ended on the cross, forgetting that the greater part
is as I am now; forgetting entirely that man still
lives, even after what seems a violent death. Life
cannot be destroyed. It goes on and on, and a life
well lived never degenerates nor passes. Even the
flesh may be immortalized so that it never changes.
“Dear Pilate, when he washed his hands and
said, ‘Away with him and crucify him yourselves,
I find no fault in him,’ how little he knew of the
history he was making, or of the prophecy he was
fulfilling. He, with the multitude, has suffered far
more than we have suffered. That is all passed
and forgotten, forgiven, as you will see by our all
standing here in the one place together.”
Two figures came forth and were embraced by
Jesus. As he stood with his hand on the shoulder
of one he said, “This dear brother here has come
all the way with me. While this one,” pointing to
the second one, “saw many more trials before his
eyes were opened. But after they were fully
opened, he came quickly. He is just as true and
we love him with the same love we do all others.”
Then another advanced slowly and stood for a
moment. Jesus turned and with outstretched arms
said, “Dear Pilate.” There was no mistaking the
comradeship of the embrace.
Then Pilate spoke and said, “I labored and suf­
fered many weary years after the verdict I pro­
nounced that day r.nd cast from myself the burden
rie]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
so lightly. How few of us while in the material
realize the needless burdens we heap upon others
in the attempt to shift the responsibility from our­
selves. It is only when our eyes are opened that
we realize the more we attempt to shirk and shift
our burdens upon others, the greater the burden
bears down upon us. It took me many weary years
to get my eyes opened to this fact, but since the
day they were opened, how I have rejoiced.”
Then the invisible choir burst into full song and
the melody beggars all description. After a few
bars, Jesus stepped forward and said, “Do you
wonder that I have long ago forgiven those that
nailed me to the cross? Then why have not all
forgiven, as I have? With me the forgiveness was
complete when I said, ‘It is finished.’ Why do you
not see me as I am, not nailed to the cross, but
risen above all mortality.”
Again the invisible choir continued with “Hail,
all hail, you Sons of God. Hail, hail and praise
Him. His kingdom endures forever among men.
Lo, He is with you ahvay,” and as they sang, the
words stood out upon the wall of the room.
This was not a far-off, hazy, nearly invisible
scene. Neither was it set on a stage far away from
us. All were actually present in the room, for we
did talk with them, shake hands with them, and
photograph them. They were right among us and
we were around them. The only difference that
we could see between them and ourselves was the
peculiar light around them, and this appeared to
be the source of the light in the room. There were
no shadows anywhere. To us there seemed to be a
peculiar translucent quality about the flesh, for
when we touched them or clasped their hands, the
flesh seemed like alabaster. Still it had a warm,
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[17]
friendly glow and that same warmth pervaded
everything about them. Even the room we were
in, after they walked out, seemed to retain the
same warmth and light. Every time we entered
the room afterward some of the party would re­
mark about it. One day, a short time after, our
party had gathered in the room. We were talking
of how the room impressed us, when our Chief
said to me, “It is sublime.” He had expressed the
feelings of every one and there was no more said
about it. When we returned that fall, the room
seemed a sanctuary and we spent many hours
there.
Our party waited while the others filed from the
room, one of our friends from the village with one
that had appeared. As Pilate started to leave, he
motioned our Chief to join him and together all
descended the stairs, down to the lower room
through the passageway to the crevice and down
the ladder, one by one, until all had descended.
Then we went on to the village to the home where
we were stopping, where we all talked together
until midnight. Then they all dispersed in the
usual way, as though the meeting was a common
occurrence.
After the guests had departed we gathered
around our hostess and each in turn clasped her
hand to thank her for the remarkable evening we
had experienced. One of our party said, “The
only way I can express my thoughts and feelings
is to say my narrow, mortal outlook has been so
shattered that I do not expect to ever again see
the least fragment.” He apparently struck the
key that vibrated to all our thoughts. I did not
attempt to give voice to my thoughts or feelings,
neither have I ever attempted to record them. I
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[18]
shall leave that for the reader to imagine. After
leaving our hostess, to retire, there was not a word
spoken. Each one seemed to feel that an entire
new world had opened.
We retired that night feeling that we had fin­
ished the fullest New Year’s Day of our whole
lives.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[19]
CHAPTER II
HE next morning, after we had gathered for
breakfast, we questioned our hostess and
found that it was not an uncommon occur­
rence for Jesus to come as he did, and she said
he often came and joined them in their healing
After breakfast we found that our hostess and
two other ladies were to go to the temple with us
that day. As we left the house two men joined
the party. One told our hostess that there was a
sick child in the village that was asking for her.
We all turned aside and followed the men to the
home of the child and found it very ill. Our
hostess walked forward and held out her hands
and the mother placed the child in her arms. In­
stantly the little one’s face brightened, then it
snuggled up close for a moment and in a few min­
utes it was sound asleep. She returned the child
to the mother and we proceeded to the temple.
On the way she remarked, “Oh, if these dear
people would only see and do this work for them­
selves instead of depending upon us. It would
be so much better for them. As it is they let us
entirely alone until some emergency arises, then
they call for us, which is quite all right, except it
does not give them any self-reliance whatever, and
we would much prefer to see them self-reliant,
but they are child-like in every way.”
By this time we had reached the foot of the
ladder. We went up and entered the tunnel. The
two men accompanied us. As this tunnel was
through solid rock it was natural to suppose it
would be dark. It was lighted sufficiently to
enable us to see objects for considerable distance
ahead, and the light seemed to be around us, so
work.
[20]
that there were no shadows. We had noticed this
the day before but no one had remarked about it.
Upon making inquiry we were told the light was
around us just as it appeared, and when there was
no one in the tunnel it was dark.
We went on through the tunnel, up the stairs to
the third room. This room was somewhat larger
than the two below, and there were a great many
tablets stored along two walls. Just back of this
room we found that another large room had been
excavated and later we learned that this room
was also filled with similar tablets. These tablets
were of a reddish dark brown color, quite well
glazed. Some were about 14x24 inches and about
two inches thick and weighed from ten to twelve
pounds each. Others were much larger. What
puzzled us was, how they could have been trans­
ported over the mountains. We expressed our
wonder at this and were told that they were not
transported over the mountains, that they were
brought to the Gobi country when it was a fertile
and well settled country, before the mountains
were raised. Then long after the mountains came
up they were removed to this place to guard
against any possibility of their being destroyed.
It is claimed that before the mountains raised,
a great tidal wave ran over a large portion of the
country, totally devastating it and destroying a
large portion of the population. Those that sur­
vived were cut off from the world and a means of
livelihood, and they became the forefathers of the
roving bands of brigands that infest the Gobi at
this time. It is claimed that the Great Uigur
Empire existed where the Himalayas and the Gobi
are today; that large cities of a people in a high
state of civilization existed there and the drifting
sand had covered the ruins after they were de­
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[21]
stroyed by the water. We afterwards took the
descriptions as they were translated to us from
the tablets and found three of these cities, and we
believe that some day when further excavations
are completed, they will prove the authenticity of
these records and that which is claimed for them.
These records place the date of this civilization
back hundreds of thousands of years. As this is
not a treatise on research I feel that I have
digressed.
We were shown through the different rooms and
during the general conversation it developed that
one of the men that joined our party in the morn­
ing was a descendant of the man whom we met in
the village where John the Baptist had lived and
whom we called our friend of the records. He
showed every sign of advanced years and this
caused us to wonder.
While we were returning to the first room, our
Chief asked if a desire could be fulfilled as soon
as it was expressed. Our hostess answered that
if the desire was put forth in true form it would
be fulfilled. She then went on to say that desire
is but a form of prayer, that it was the true form
of prayer which Jesus used as his prayers were
always answered; that prayer which is always
answered must be true prayer, therefore must be
scientific and if scientific must be according to
fixed law. Continuing, she said, “The law is ‘As
you believe, your prayer is granted’ and ‘What
things soever you desire, when you pray, believe
you receive them and you shall have them.’
“If we know positively that whatever we have
asked for is ours already, we may know that we
are working in accordance with law. If the desire
is filled full, then we may know that the law is
fulfilled. If the desire is not filled full then we
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[22]
may know that we have asked amiss. We may
know that the fault is with us and not with God.
“Then the instructions are, ‘You shall love the
Lord, your God, with all your heart, and with all
your soul, with all your mind and with all your
strength.’
“Now go deep, deep down within your own soul,
not with forebodings, fear and unbelief, but with
a glad, free, thankful heart, knowing that for
which you stand in need is already yours.
“The secret lies in getting the at-one-ment and
getting the consciousness of it and then holding
firmly and never deviating, though all earth
should oppose. ‘Of myself I can do nothing,’ said
Jesus, ‘The Father that dwells in me, He does the
work.’ Have faith in God. Have faith and doubt
not. Have faith and fear not. Now remember
there is no limitation to God’s power. ‘All things
are possible.’
“Use positive words in making your request.
There is naught but the perfect condition desired.
Then plant in your soul the perfect seed idea and
that alone. Now ask to manifest health and not
to be healed of disease; to express harmony and
realize abundance—not to be delivered from in­
harmony, misery and limitations. Throw these
off as you would discard an old garment. They
are old and the only outgrown things about you,
and you can afford to discard them joyfully. Do
not even turn to gaze upon them. They are for­
given, forgotten. They have returned to the dust
from which they were created. They are no-thing
—nothing.
“Fill all the seeming blank spaces about you
with the thought of God, Infinite Good. Then re­
member the word is a seed. It must grow.
“Leave the how, when and where to God. Your
[23]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
work is merely to say what you want, and to give
forth blessings, knowing that the moment you
have asked, you have received. All the details of
this bringing forth is the work of the Father. Re­
member He does the work. Do faithfully your
part and leave and trust God’s part to Him. Ask.
Affirm. Look to God for what you want, then
receive God’s fulfillment.
“Keep the thought of God’s abundance always
in mind. If any other thought comes put it out
for God’s abundance and bless that abundance.
Give thanks constantly, if need be, that the work
is being done. Do not go back again to the asking.
Just bless and give thanks that the work is done,
that God is working in you, that you are receiving
that which you desire, for you desire only the good
that you may give out the good to all. Let this
be in silence and in secret. Pray to your Father
in secret, and your Father who sees the secret of
your soul, will reward you openly.
“When the demonstration is complete you will
look back upon the time faithfully given as one of
your greatest treasures. You will have proven the
law, and you will realize the power of your word
spoken in faith and blessing. Remember that God
has perfected His perfect plan. He has and is con­
tinuously pouring out lovingly and lavishly upon
us all good, and every good thing that we can
desire. Again He says, ‘Try Me and see if I will
not open the windows of heaven and pour out
such a blessing there will not be room to re­
ceive it. W ith All My Heart
“In the heart of my being, Father, I am one
with You, and I recognize You as the Being, the
Father of all. You are Spirit, Omnipresent, Omni­
potent, Omniscient. You are Wisdom, Love and
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[24]
Truth, the power and substance and intelligence
of which and through which all things are created.
You are the life of my spirit, the substance of my
soul, the intelligence of my thought, and I am ex­
pressing You in my body and my affairs. You are
the beginning and the end, the very All of the good
which I can express. The desire of my thought
which is implanted in my soul is quickened by
Your life in my spirit, and in the fullness of time
through the law of faith it is brought into visibility
in my experience. I know that the good I desire
already exists in Spirit in invisible form and but
awaits the fulfillment of the law to be made
visible, and I know that already I have.
With All My Soul
“The words which I now speak, outline to You,
my Father, that which I desire. As a seed it is
planted in the soil of my soul and moved upon
by Your quickening life in my spirit. It must come
forth. I allow only Your Spirit—Wisdom, Love,
and Truth—to move in my soul. I desire only that
which is good for all, and I now ask You, Father,
to bring it forth.
“Father within me, I ask to express Love, Wis­
dom, Strength and Eternal Youth. I ask to realize
Harmony, Happiness and Abundant Prosperity;
that I may have the understanding direct from
You, of the method of bringing forth from the
Universal Substance that which will satisfy every
good desire. This is not for self, Father, but that
I may have the understanding so that I may be of
service to all Your children.
W ith All My Mind
“That which I desire is now being brought into
visibility. I form in mind only that which I desire.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[25]
As a seed begins its growth underground in the
quiet and in the dark, so does my desire now take
form in the silent, invisible realm of my soul. I
enter my closet and shut the door. Quietly and
confidently I now hold my desire in my mind as
already fulfilled. Father, I now await the perfect
outpicturing of my desire. Father, Father, within
me, I thank You that now in the invisible, the ful­
fillment of my desire is always established, and I
know that You have poured out lovingly and lav­
ishly to all an abundance of all Your treasure;
that You have filled full every good desire of my
life; that I may partake of Your opulent supply;
that I may realize my oneness with You and that
all Your children may realize the same; and that
whatever I have may pour out on all to help all
Your children. All that I have I give to You,
Father. With All My Strength
“No act or thought of mine shall deny that I
have already received in Spirit the fulfillment of
my desire, and it is now brought forth into perfect
visibility. In spirit, in soul, in mind, in body, I am
true to my desire. I have perceived my good in
Spirit. I have conceived it as a perfect idea in
soul, and I have given true thought form to my
desire. I now bring into visibility, or true mani­
festation, my perfect desire.
“I thank You, Father, that I now have Love,
Wisdom, and U nderstanding, Life, Health,
Strength and Eternal Youth, Harmony, Happiness
and Abundant Prosperity and the method of bring­
ing forth from the Universal Substance that which
will satisfy every good desire.
“ ‘Said I not unto you, that if you would be­
lieve, you should see the glory of God.’ ”
After she had spoken there was deep silence
[26]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
for a moment, then she continued: “Understand
that if it is not finished, the fault is in yourselves
and not with God, if your desire is not now
visible. Do not go back again to the asking, but
like Elijah, persist, hold out the cup until it is
filled, pour out blessings and thanks that it is done
now, though every mortal thought of error beset
you. Go on, go on, it is here now, and believe me
your faith will be rewarded.
“We will suppose it is ice you desire. Would
you begin by speaking out the word, ice, all about
you indiscriminately? If you did you would scat­
ter your forces in all directions and nothing would
come to you. You should first form a mental pic­
ture of what you desire, hold it directly in thought
just long enough to get the image, then drop the
image entirely and look directly into the Universal
Substance. Know that that Substance is a part
of God and therefore a part of you and in that
Substance there is everything you need and that
God is pressing that Substance out to you just as
fast as you can use it, and that you can never
deplete the supply. Then know that everyone that
has contacted that supply has brought it forth
from this Substance whether they have done it
consciously or unconsciously. Now with your
thought and vision fixed on the one central atom,
hold that atom until you have imprinted your de­
sire upon it. You will lower the vibration of that
atom until it becomes ice. Then all the atoms
surrounding that one will hasten to obey your
desire. Their vibration will be lowered until they
will adhere to the central particle and in a
moment you will have ice. You do not even need
any water about you, you need only the ideal.”
Again there was deep silence and in a moment
[27]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
a picture appeared upon the wall of the room. At
first the forms were still and we thought but little
of it. In a moment the forms began to move about
and we could see their lips move as though they
were talking. Immediately our attention became
fixed and our hostess said, “This picture is de­
picting a scene that happened long ago, when the
Uigur Empire was at its height. You can see
how beautiful the people are, and the country
is warm and sunny. You can see how the trees
are swayed by the breezes. Even the colors are
reproduced. There were no fierce storms to dis­
turb the land or its inhabitants. If you will give
close attention you will hear them speak, and if
you can understand the language you can tell
what they are talking about. You can even see the
play of the muscles of the body as they move
about.” Our hostess ceased speaking, but the pic­
tures continued to pour in with scenes changing
at intervals of about two minutes until we seemed
to be a part of the picture, so close did they appear
to us. Suddenly there came a scene with three
of our party in it. There was no mistaking them.
We could hear their voices and recognize what
they were talking about. It proved to be an in­
cident that had taken place in South America
about ten years previous.
Then our hostess resumed, “We are able to
throw thought vibrations into the atmosphere that
connect with the thought vibrations of those that
have passed, and our vibrations collect those of
the thoughts gone before until they draw them
together at a given point. Then you are able to
see those scenes reproduced as they were when
the scenes occurred. This may seem phenomenal
to you, but it will not be long before your people
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[28]
will be producing pictures similar to those you
have seen. The only difference will be they will
be photographic and mechanical, while we do not
use either method.
“The leaders of Christian thought have been so
busy with their interdenominational bickerings,
each one determined that the other should not
succeed, that they have nearly forgotten what a
true spiritual life means. Likewise the Oriental
people have set themselves so deterpainedly upon
the esoteric, occult and scientific side of their
philosophy, that they have also passed over the
spiritual.
“It will come to a point where a few of those
that develop the pictures through mechanical
means, to their higher degree of perfection, will
be the first to see the true spiritual meaning, the
educational value, the benefit to be derived, and
the accomplishments that are possible. Then those
few will have the courage to step forth and pro­
claim the accomplishment by the pictures they
produce. It will be seen that these devices and
the people that develop them, now thought to be
the most material, will be the greatest power of
any factor brought forth and developed by your
people, in bringing out the true spiritual. Thus
it will be left to those that are thought to be the
most material of the greatest material race to
bring forth the true spiritual. Your people are
going on and will bring forth a device that will
reproduce the voices of those that have passed
more accurately than they now reproduce the
voices of the living. You are going on and will
achieve, in a measure, mechanically what we do
with thought force. There is where you are going
to excel all the world in future development.
“The founding of America portrays the white
[29]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
race’s homecoming, as that land is their former
home and one of the places where the great early
spiritual enlightenment was brought forth. Thus
it is the land where the greatest spiritual awaken­
ing will take place. In a short time you will be
far ahead of the whole world in physical and
mechanical development. You will go on and de­
velop the physical and mechanical until it is per­
fected to a degree where you will see that there is
but one more step to the spiritual. When that time
comes, you will have the courage to take the step.
There is a saying in your country that necessity
is the mother of invention. Necessity has placed
5r
ou where you were obliged to do that which
seemed impossible. Your mode of accomplishment
has made you a very material nation. With your
mode of living this has been necessary in order
to survive. When you, as a nation, do touch the
spiritual realm, the strides that you have made in
the material will seem like child’s play. With the
strong physical bodies and quick perception you
have developed, your race will become a light to
all other nations and you will look back and
wonder as you are now looking back and wonder­
ing why your forefathers used the stage-coach and
the tallow candle when steam and electricity were
all around them, just as it is around you today.
Had they abided by the law they would have re­
ceived and benefited as you have and will.
“You will find that the spiritual surrounds and
is above the material. You will find that in the
spiritual there is a higher law, and when you
abide by that law, you receive the benefit, for the
spiritual is just above and around the mechanical
or material. You will find there is no more
mystery there than there is in the mechanical or
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[30]
material. The things that appear difficult to you
now will be simple and you will surmount them
just as readily as you are now surmounting the
mechanical and material. It is the continual
striving that does the work.”
By this time the old gentleman had selected and
brought out a tablet and placed it on an easel
standing near.
Our hostess went on to say, “The great error
many people make is they do not look upon les­
sons as a means of attaining a given end. They do
not realize that when that end is attained and
fully recognized, the lessons are to be discarded
and the attainment is to be followed. Then, if they
still wish to go on, they may pause for a moment
and place what they have accomplished in their
storehouse (sometimes called the subconscious),
and the lessons leading to the further attainment
which they seek may be taken up. But as soon as
the goal is reached, they must again discard the
lessons. In this way, they may go step by step, to
the highest. You will find that lessons are but
steps in the stairway, and if you attempt to carry
all the steps you have used to reach the top, the
load would soon crush you. Besides, there would
be no steps for your brother to use as he follows
on. Leave the steps for him to use if he chooses.
They have assisted you to reach the top. You do
not need them any longer. You may pause for a
moment for breath or a fresh inspiration to go
on. The moment that inspiration has come, you
can place your foot upon the next step and again
place the attainment in the storehouse. Let go of
all the lessons that brought you there and there is
nothing to encumber or hold you back. But if you
look back at the lessons and do not hold your
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[31]
vision on the goal, before you realize it, you have
fixed the lessons instead of the ideal the lessons
would convey. This may cause you to waver and
look back and say, ‘Did my ancestors accomplish
in the way I have accomplished?’ When I look
far back I can say they did, but when I look into
the immediate future I say they did not, for they
accomplished by the sweat of their brow, while
you are using your own God-given power. If you
look back to your ancestors, before you realize it,
you will be worshipping them, for with your
creative ability, you have brought forth that which
you have gazed upon. You will be living by their
standards instead of your own. You will begin to
look like your ancestors, but you will not accom­
plish what they have. You will begin to drop back,
for if you live by another’s ideal, you can not
accomplish that which the one who conceived the
ideal accomplished. You must either go on or re­
turn. There are no half-way measures. This an­
cestor worship is one of the direct causes of
nations degenerating. The lack of ancestor wor­
ship is the reason that we see a great nation in
store for you. You had, in the first place, very
little pride of ancestry, for you had no ancestors
to worship and you had no foundation save that
which you made. Your ideal was a free country
and you brought forth your ideal. The country
you acquired had been free from king or ruler. To
you it did not matter how your grandfather had
accomplished, it was how you, your own indi­
vidual self would accomplish. Then you united
with the many to accomplish one purpose, and the
individual self in you, the creative power that
gives you life, yourself, God, held you in direct
communion with your ideal power to create. Then
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[32]
with your eyes steadfastly fixed on the attainment,
you are going on to the realization of your ideal.”
Our hostess turned to the tablet and resumed,
“On these tablets it is recorded that God was
called Directive Principle—Head, Mind—and was
symbolized by the character which is like your
letter M, which was called M-o-o-h. This trans­
lated into your language would be director or
builder.
“This Directive Principle was over all and con­
trolled all. The first Being He created was called
the expression of the Directive Principle and He
was created in form just like the Principle, as the
Principle had no form but His own to express by
or through. This Being which the Directive Prin­
ciple created was the directive principle of the
outer expression of the Principle. He was created
in the image of the Principle, as the Directive
Principle had no other form to pattern after. The
Directive Principle gave to His creation every one
of His attributes, and this creation had access to
everything that the Principle had. He was given
dominion over every outer form. He had the form
of His Creator, the attributes of His Creator, and
the power to express all of them in the perfect
way that the Creator expresses, so long as the
creation held itself in direct accord with the Prin­
ciple or Creator. None of the attributes of the
created being were developed, but the Creator
having in mind the ideal or perfect plan which
His creation was to express, placed His creation in
ideal or perfect surroundings where all the at­
tributes could be brought forth and expressed
or brought into outer manifestation. Thus the
Creator did not place His creation upon earth until
all the conditions for its perfect development were
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[33]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
complete. When these conditions were complete,
this Being was placed among them and named
Lord God, and the location where He was placed
was called M-o-o-h or M, and afterward became
known as the cradle or mother. I wish you to
understand that I am putting this into words in
your language so that you can understand them.
You can go into the details later after you have
learned to translate the tablets yourselves. I wish
to bring these points out so that they may become
the principle from which we will work in trans­
lating these records. I do not wish you to think
that I am attempting to change any conclusions
you have already formed in other ways or through
other thoughts or studies. I am going to ask you
to lay them all aside for the time. When you have
gone deeper into these studies, you are at liberty
to take up all others again if you wish. I do not
wish to influence you in any way. For all lessons
are but the outer, a way of arriving at a con­
clusion. If the conclusion is not reached, or the
aim sought is not attained, the lessons become
driftwood, extra baggage, nothing.”
[34]
CHAPTER III
D
AY after day for two months we gave our
whole attention to a set of tablets which
dealt entirely with the characters and
symbols and their position, plan and meaning,
with the old man as our instructor. This went on
until one morning early in March, we went to the
room in the temple as usual. When we arrived,
we found the old gentleman lying on the couch as
though asleep. One of our party walked over and
placed his hand on his arm to arouse him. As he
did this he started back and exclaimed, “He is not
breathing, I believe he is dead.” We gathered
around the couch and were so absorbed in our
own thoughts of death among these people that
we did not hear anyone enter. We were aroused
from our reverie by a voice saying, “Good morn­
ing’
.” We turned toward the door and there stood
Emil. We all started and then stood as though
we were dumb, for we had thought of him as be­
ing a thousand miles away, and his sudden ap­
pearance had startled us. Before we had time
to compose ourselves, he had walked over and
was shaking hands all around.
In a moment, two of our party stepped aside
and Emil walked to the couch where the old man
was, and placing his hand upon his head, said,
“Here we have a dear brother that has departed
from this earth but has not been able to finish his
work among us. As one of your poets has said,
‘He has wrapped his mantle about him and has
lain down to pleasant dreams.’ In other words,
you have pronounced him dead. Your first thought
is to get an undertaker, a coffin, to prepare a grave
to hide the mortal part of him while it dissolves.
“Dear friends, kindly think for a moment. To
[35]
whom did Jesus speak when he said, ‘Father, I
thank Thee that Thou hast heard me.’ He was
not talking to the outer self, the me, the shell. He
was recognizing and praising the Inner Self, the
One Infinite, the All Hearing, the All Knowing, the
All Seeing, the Great and Mighty Omnipresent
God. Can you not see where the vision of Jesus
was as he stood at the tomb of Lazarus? Did he,
like you, look into that tomb and see a dead and
dissolving Lazarus? While your vision was upon
the dead, he held his upon the living, the only
begotten of God. His vision was fixed upon un­
changeable, eternal, omnipresent Life, and that
Life transcends all. Now with our vision held
steadfastly toward the ever-present reality of God,
we can behold His finished work.
“Here is a dear brother who never relied wholly
on God, but went on partially in his own strength,
until he has reached this stage and given up and
made the mistake which so many are making to­
day, the mistake you call and look upon as death.
This dear soul has not been able to let go of all
doubt and fear and thus he has relied on his own
strength and he has not been able to finish the
work set before all. Should we leave him thus,
his body will dissolve and he will be again sent
forth to finish his mortal task, which is all but
complete. In fact, so nearly complete is it that we
can help him to finish and we feel it a great privi­
lege to help.
“You asked if he can again he awakened to full
consciousness. Yes, he can and so can all others
who have similarly passed. Though he has passed,
as you look upon it, we who have shared a part
of his life with him can help him and he will be
able to understand quickly so that he may take
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[36]
his body with him. It is not necessary to leave the
body to so-called death and dissolution even after
one has apparently made the great mistake.”
Here the speaker stopped, and for a moment ap­
peared to be lost in deep meditation. In a very
short time four of our friends from the village
walked into the room. They gathered close to­
gether for a few moments as though in deep
thought, then two of them reached out their hands
and motioned us to join them. We stepped up
close and two placed their arms around two of
our party and we in turn placed our arms around
each other until the circle was complete. The
circle extended around the couch that the form
of the departed was lying upon. As we stood there
for a moment without a word being spoken, the
light in the room became brighter. We turned and
Jesus and Pilate were standing in the room to­
gether, a few steps away. They came forward and
joined us. There was another deep silence, then
Jesus stepped forward to the couch, and raising
both hands, said, “Dear ones, will you just step
through the vale of death with me for a moment.
It is not forbidden ground as you think. If you
will just step through as we have done, and view
it from the other side, you will see that it is only
what your thoughts have made it. There is life
there, the same life that is here.” He stood for a
moment with outstretched hands. “Dear friend
and brother, it is that you are with us and we are
with you and we are all together with God. The
sublime purity, peace and harmony of God sur­
rounds, embraces, and enriches all. This perfec­
tion now manifests so vividly to you, our dear one,
that you may arise and be received unto your
Father. Dear one, you see and know that it is not
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[37]
dust to dust and ashes to ashes, hut it is Life, pure
Life, Life Everlasting. Your body need not be left
to mortal dissolution. You now perceive the glory
of the Kingdom from which you come forth. You
may now arise and go to your Father, and the
shout goes up, ‘All hail, all hail, the new born one,
the risen Lord, the Christ among men.’ ”
Dear readex*, words are but a travesty when the
mortal attempts to picture the beauty and purity
of the light that filled that room, and as that form
arose, the light seemed to penetrate every object
so that nothing cast a shadow, not even the form
of our friend or our own bodies. Then the walls
seemed to expand and become transparent, until
we seemed to be looking into infinite space. The
glory of that picture can not be told. Then we
knew that instead of standing in the presence of
death, we were standing in the presence of Etei’nal
Life, Life unspeakably grand, never diminishing
but going on and on, eternally.
What could we mortals do but stand and stare.
In the uplift of those few moments we were car-
l’ied, for a time, far beyond our most sanguine
imagination of heaven and the beauty of it all.
It was not a dream, hut real. Thus the real can he
greater than any dream. We were privileged to
see through and beyond the shadow.
The beauty and tranquillity of that scene, and
the great faith we had already placed in our
friends carried us completely over the divide that
day, and today that divide is but a level plain,
Yet in some way it was made clear that each one,
for himself, must first scale the heights before the
beauty beyond can be seen.
With every vestige of age gone, our friend, whom
we looked upon as raised from the dead, turned
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[38]
toward his associates and in a moment began to
speak. These are his words, as he stood facing our
friends. It is as though they were cast in raised
gold upon a tablet which stands always before me.
The voice came forth with a majesty that I .can
not express. There was no affectation, just a
clear, deep note of sincerity and strength. He
said, “Dear ones, you can not know the joy, the
peace, the great bliss you have given me in awak­
ening me as you have. Just a moment ago it was
all dark and I stood, fearing to go on and I could
not return. The only way that I can explain it is
I seemed engulfed in a great blackness from
which I suddenly seemed to awaken, and now I
am again with you.” Here his face became so
radiant with joy that there was no mistaking his
sincerity. Then he turned to us and said, “Dear
ones, how I do love to think of our association.
You can never know the joy it has given me to
have clasped your hands; the great joy it has
given me to see and know and feel the sincerity
with which you have accepted these, my dear
helpers, who at this moment I am able to call
divine. Could you see through my eyes at this
moment, you would be able to know the bliss that
I am experiencing. The greatest joy of all is to
know so fully that each of you will stand and
know just as I am standing and knowing. That
joy you will know only when you do stand as I
stand. I can say that it is well to have lived a full
life to be able to enjoy one moment of this. Then
to think that I can see all eternity unfolding like
this. Do you wonder when I say that my eyes are
almost blinded and I am dazed with the revelation?
Do you wonder at my great longing to unfold this
vision to you, and not only to you, but to every
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[39]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
brother and sister in the whole wide universe of
God? Dear brothers, if I could lay a transforming
hand upon you and lift you to where I stand, it
seems that my joy would be multiplied manyfold
at this moment. I am shown I must not do that.
I am shown that you, yourselves, must stretch
forth this transforming hand, and when you have
stretched it forth you will find God’s hand ready
to clasp yours and you will be able to walk and
talk with Him, and God will eternally bless you
as He does all. The greater joy of all is, I am
shown that it does not matter what the caste or
creed or church, all are welcome.”
In a moment he had disappeared from our view,
just faded away, it seemed to us. Was this an
ethereal vision? All my associates concluded that
it was not, for two of them had clasped this man’s
hand. I leave it to the reader to decide.
Then one of our friends from the village turned
to us and said, “I know that you are doubting, but
won’t you understand that this was not staged for
your benefit? This is but one of the emergencies
in our lives, and when the emergency does arise
we are able to come up over the emergency. This
dear one had not been able in his own strength to
quite make the divide, as you call it. In fact as
you see it, he had passed on. The soul had left
the body behind, and one so enlightened can be
helped at the crucial moment, so that the soul does
return and the body finishes its perfection, then
the body can be taken along. This brother’s
trouble was he longed too ardently to pass on, and
he left his body when just a few more steps, as it
were, helped it over the divide and the perfection
was complete. The help extended was our great
privilege.”
[40]
We slowly withdrew our arms and stood for a
full minute in absolute silence. One of our party
broke the silence with the words, “My Lord and
my God.” As for me it did not seem as though I
would ever want to talk again, I wanted to think.
I had lived a whole lifetime in the last hour. We
were all seated and a few had found their voices
and were conversing in low tones. This condition
had lasted for fifteen or twenty minutes and nearly
everyone was engaged in general conversation,
when one of our party walked to the window. He
turned and said there seemed to be strangers
arriving in the village. We all went down to meet
them, as it was a very rare occurrence for strangers
to visit the village at this season of the year and
on foot, as it was just past midwinter.
When we arrived at the village, we found that
it was a party from a smaller village about thirty
miles down the valley. They had brought a man
that had lost his way in a storm three days pre­
vious and was nearly frozen. His friends had car­
ried him on a stretcher all that distance through
the snow. Jesus stepped close to the man and
placed his hand upon the man’s head and stood
for a moment. Almost instantly the man threw
off the wrappings and arose to his feet. His
friends, when they saw him stand, stared at him for
an instant, then ran from the scene in terror. We
could not persuade them to return. The party that
was healed seemed dazed and uncertain. Two of
our friends persuaded him to go with them to their
home and rest for awhile. The rest of the party
went to our quarters with us and we talked of
things that had happened until nearly midnight.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[41]
CHAPTER IV
T ONE time conversation led on to a point
where one of our party asked where hell
was and what the devil meant. Jesus turned
quickly and said, “Hell or the devil has no abiding
place except in man’s mortal thought. Both of
them are right where man places them. With your
present enlightenment, can you place either in any
geographical position on the earth? If heaven is
all and surrounds all, where could hell or the devil
be placed ethereally? If God rules all and is All,
where could either be placed in God’s perfect plan?
“If we take the science of things, we know there
is a legend told here that all the heat and light
and many other natural forces are contained right
within the earth itself. The sun, of itself, has no
heat or light. It has potentialities that draw the
heat and light from the earth. After the sun has
drawn the heat and light rays from the earth, the
heat rays are reflected back to the earth by the
atmosphere that floats in the ether. The light rays
are drawn from the earth in about the same man­
ner and are reflected back to the earth by the
ether. As the air extends only a comparatively
short distance, the effect of the heat rays varies
as you leave the earth’s surface and ascend toward
the outer limit of the atmosphere. As the air be­
comes less dense, there is less reflection, conse­
quently as you ascend into the altitudes the heat
becomes less and the cold increases. Every heat
ray, as it is drawn out and reflected, drops back
to the earth, where it is regenerated. When you
have reached the limit of air, you have reached
the limit of heat. It is the same with the light rays.
They are drawn from the earth and reflected back
by the ether. As this ether extends much farther
[42]
from the earth than the air, the light rays extend
much farther before they are all reflected. When
you have reached the limit of ether, you have
reached the limit of light. When you have reached
the limit of heat and light, you have reached the
great cold. This cold is far more solid than steel
and it presses down upon the ether and the atmos­
phere with almost irresistible force and holds them
together. Hell is supposed to be warm and his
Satanic Majesty abhors cold, so you could not find
any lodging place out there for them.
“Now that we have disposed of them above, let
us take the other scientific legend and go below.
According to this legend, the earth a short distance
from the surface is a molten mass. It is so hot that
it will melt any substance. This molten mass at
the center revolves more slowly than does the
crust at the outer, and the friction caused in the
belt where the two meet is the place where the
natural forces are generated and the hand of God
rules all. So there is no place for his Satanic
Majesty or his home there, for if he attempted to
live in either the hottest or the coldest place, he
would find it very uncomfortable, for cold will
consume as well as heat. We have searched every
place and we can not find him a home, so we must
assume that he is right where man is, and has all
the power that man gives him.
“It was only the personal adversary that I cast
out. Do you think for a moment that I would cast
the devil out of any man, then allow him to enter
a herd of swine that cast themselves into the sea?
I never saw the devil in any man, save he brought
him there himself. The only dominion I ever gave
him was that which man himself gave him.”
Later the talk led to God and one of our party
[43]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
said, “I would like to know who or what God really
is.” Then Jesus spoke, and said, “I believe that I
understand the motive of the question you would
like to clear up in your own mind. It is the many
conflicting thoughts and ideas that are puzzling
or disturbing the world today without reference
to the origin of the word. God is the principle be­
hind everything that exists today. The principle
behind a thing is Spirit and Spirit is Omnipotent,
Omnipresent, Omniscient. God is the one Mind
that is both the direct and the directing cause of
all the good that we see about us. God is the
source of all the life that we see about us. God is
the source of all the true Love that holds or binds
all forms together. God is impersonal principle.
God is never personal except as He becomes to
each individual a personal loving Father-Mother.
To the individual He can be a personal, loving,
all-giving Father-Mother. God never becomes a
great being located somewhere in the skies in a
place called heaven, where He has a throne which
He sits upon and judges people after they die, for
God is the Life itself and that life never dies. That
is but a misconception brought about by man’s
ignorant thinking, just as so many malformations
have been brought about and you see them in the
world around you. God is not a judge or a king
that can intrude His presence upon you, or bring
you before the bar of justice. God is a loving, all­
giving Father-Mother, who, when you approach
puts out His arms and enfolds you. It does not
matter who or what you are, or what you have
been. You are His child just the same when you
seek Him with a true heart and purpose. If you
are the Prodigal Son who has turned his face from
the Father’s house and you are weary of the husks
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[44]
of life that you are feeding to the swine, you can
again turn your face to the Father’s house and be
certain of a loving welcome. The feast ever awaits
you there. The table is always spread, and when
you do return, there will not be a reproach from
a brother that has returned before you.
“God’s love is like a pure spring that gushes
from a mountain. At its source it is pure, but as
it flows on its course it becomes clouded and pol­
luted, until it enters the ocean so impure that it
does not even resemble that which emerged from
the source. As it enters the ocean it begins to drop
the mud and slime to the bottom and again rises
to the surface as a part of the glad, free ocean,
and again can be taken up to refresh the spring.
“You can see and talk with God at any time, just
as you can with father, mother, brother or friend.
Indeed, He is far closer than any mortal can be.
God is far dearer and truer than any friend. God
is never wrought up, nor angry, nor cast down.
God never destroys, nor hurts, nor hinders one of
His children or creatures or creations. If God did
these things He would not be God. The god that
judges, destroys, or withholds any good thing from
his children or creatures or creations is but a god
that is conjured by man’s ignorant thinking, and
you need not fear that god unless you wish to do
so. For the true God stretches forth His hand and
says, ‘All that I have is yours.’ When one of your
poets said that God is closer than breathing and
nearer than hands or feet, he was inspired by God.
All are inspired by God when that inspiration is
for the good or right, and all can be inspired by
God at all times if they only will.
“When I said, ‘I am the Christ, the only begotten
of God’ I did not declare this for myself alone, for
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[45]
had I done this I could not have become the Christ.
I saw definitely that in order to bring forth the
Christ, that I, as well as all others, must declare it,
then live the life, and the Christ must appear. You
may declare the Christ all you will and if you do
not live the life, the Christ will never appear. Just
think, dear friends, if all would declare the Christ,
then live the life for one year or five years, what
an awakening there would be. The possibilities
cannot be imagined. That was the vision that I
saw. Dear ones, can you not place yourselves
where I stood and see as I saw? Oh, why do you
surround me with the murk and mire of supersti­
tion! Why do you not lift your eyes and minds
and thoughts above these and see with a clear
vision! Then you will see that there are no
miracles, no mysteries, no pain, no imperfection,
no inharmony and no death, except that which
man has made. When I said ‘I have overcome
death,’ I knew whereof I spoke, but it took the
crucifixion to show those dear ones.
“There are a great many of us joined together
to help the whole world, and this is our lifework.
There have been times when it has taken our com­
bined energies to ward off the waves of evil
thoughts of doubt and disbelief and superstition
that have nearly engulfed mankind. You may call
them evil forces if you wish. We know that they
are evil only as man makes them so. But now we
see the light growing brighter and brighter as the
dear ones throw off the bonds. The throwing off
of these bonds may for a time sink them into
materiality, but even so, it is a step nearer the goal,
for materiality does not hold one as superstition
and myth and mystery hold one. When I stepped
upon the water that day, do you think that I cast
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[46]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
my eyes downward into the great depths, the ma­
terial substance? No, my eyes were fastened
steadfastly on God Power that transcends any
power of the deep. The moment I did this the
water became as firm as a rock and I could walk
upon it in perfect safety.”
Jesus stopped talking for a moment and one of
our party asked, “While we are talking, does it not
hinder you from going right on with your work?”
Jesus answered and said, “You can not hinder
one of our friends here for a moment and I believe
I am included as one of them.”
Some one spoke and said, “You are our
Brother.”
Then Jesus’ face lighted up with a smile as he
said, “Thank you, I have always named you
Brothers.”
One of the party then turned and asked Jesus,
“Can all bring forth the Christ?” Pie answered,
“‘Yes, there is but one end of accomplishment.
Man came forth from God and he must return
to God. That which from the heavens descended
must again ascend unto heaven. The history of
the Christ did not begin with my birth, neither did
it end with the crucifixion. The Christ was when
God created the first man in His own image and
likeness. The Christ and that man are one; all
men and that man are one. As God was his Father
so is he the father of all men, all of God’s children.
As the child has the quality of the parent so the
Christ is in every child. For many years the child
lived and realized his Christhood, his oneness with
God, through the Christ in himself. Then began
the history of the Christ and you can trace this
history back to man’s beginning. That the Christ
means more than the man, Jesus, goes without
[47]
contradiction. Had I not perceived this I could
not have brought forth the Christ. To me this is
the pearl without price, the old wine in new bot­
tles, the truth which many others have brought
forth, and have fulfilled the ideals that I have ful­
filled and proved.
“For more than fifty years after that day on the
cross I taught and lived with my disciples and
many of those I loved dearly. In those days we
gathered at a quiet place outside of Judea. There
we were free from the prying eyes of superstition.
There many acquired the great gifts and they ac­
complished a great work. Then, seeing by with­
drawing for a time, I would be able to reach and
help all, I withdrew. Besides they were depending
upon me instead of upon themselves, and in order
to make them self-reliant, it was necessary for
me to withdraw from them. If they had lived in
close association with me, then could they not find
me again if they desired to do so?
“The cross in the beginning was the symbol of
the greatest joy the world ever knew, as the foun­
dation of the cross is the place where man first
trod the earth,, therefore the mark that symbolizes
the dawn of a celestial day here on earth. If you
will trace it back you will find that the cross will
disappear entirely and that it is the man standing
in the attitude of devotion, standing in space with
arms upraised in blessing, sending out his gifts
to humanity, pouring all his gifts forth freely in
every direction.
“When you know that the Christ is the fitting
life within the form, the rising energy that the
scientist glimpses, yet does not know from where
it came; when you feel with the Christ that the life
is lived that that life may be given freely; when
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[48]
you learn that man was obliged to live by the
constant dissolution of forms and the Christ lived
to give up the thing that the body of sense craved,
for the good that he could not at the moment
enjoy—you are the Christ. When you see your­
self a part of the greater life, but willing to
sacrifice yourself for the good of the whole; when
you learn to do right without being affected by the
outcome to self; when you learn to give up the
physical life and all that the world has to give,
freely, (this is not self-abnegation or poverty, for
as you give of God you will find you have the more
to give, although at times duty may seem to de­
mand all that life has to give. You will also know
that he who will save his life shall lose it) then
you will see that the pure gold is at the deepest
part of the furnace, where the fire has fully
cleansed it. You will find great joy in knowing
that the life you have given to others is the life
you have won. Then you will know that to receive
is to give freely; that if you lay down the mortal
form, a higher life will prevail. You have the glad
assurance that a life thus won is won for all.
“You must know that the Great Christ Soul can
go down to the river and that the stepping into
the water but typifies the sympathy you feel for
the world’s great need. Then you are able to help
your fellow men and not boast of the virtue; you
can pass out the bread of life for the hungry souls
that come to you, yet that bread never diminishes
by the giving; you must press on and know fully
that you are able to heal all that come to you, sick
or weary or heavy laden, with the Word that makes
full the soul; you are able to open the eyes of those
blinded either from ignorance or from choice.
(It does not matter how low the blinded soul may
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[49]
be, he must feel that the Chi'ist soul stands beside
him and he must find that you tread with human
feet the very ground he treads). Then you will
find that the true Unity of Father and Son is
within and not without. You will find that you
must stand serene when the God without is put
away and only the God within remains. You must
be able to withhold the cry of love and fear as
the words, ‘My God, my God, why have you for­
saken me?’ ring out. Still at that hour you must
not feel alone, for you must know that you stand
with God; that you are nearer to the heart of the
loving Father than you have ever been before.
You must know that the hour you touch the
deepest sorrow is the hour your greatest triumph
begins. With all this you must know that the sor­
rows can not touch you.
“From that hour your voice will ring with a
great, free song, for you fully know that you are
the Christ and this light is to shine among men
and for men. Then you will know the darkness
that is in every soul that can not find a helping
hand to clasp as he journeys on the rugged road
before he finds the Christ within.
“You must know that you are truly divine, and
being divine you see all men are really as you are.
Then you know there are dark places you must
pass with the light that you are to carry to the
highest and your soul will ring out in praise that
you can be of service to all men. Then with a glad
free shout you mount to your very highest in your
union with God.
“Now you know there is no substitution of your
life for other lives or of your purity for others’
sins, but all are glad, free spirits in and of them­
selves and of God. Then you know that you can
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[50]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
reach them while they can not reach each other;
that you can not help but give of your life for the
life of each soul that it shall not perish. Yet you
must be so reverent of that soul that you will not
pour into it a flood of life unless the life of that
soul does open to receive it. But you will freely
pour out to it a flood of love and life and light,
so that when that one does open the windows the
light of God will pour in and illuminate him. You
will know that in every Christ that arises, hu­
manity is lifted one step higher. Then, too, you
must know full well that you have everything that
the Father has, and having all, that it is for all
to use. You must know that as you rise and are
true, you lift the whole world with you, for as
you tread the path it becomes plainer for your
fellow men. You must have faith in yourself,
knowing fully that the faith is in God within.
Finally you must know that you are a temple of
God, a house not made with hands, immortal in
the earth, heaven as well.
“Then will they sing of you, ‘All Hail, All Hail,
He Comes, He Comes, the King, and lo, He is with
you alway. You are in God and He is in you.’ ”
Jesus arose, saying he would be obliged to leave
us, as he was to be at the home of another Brother
in the same village that evening. The whole com­
pany arose. Jesus blessed all and with two of the
company walked from the room.
[51]
CHAPTER V
A FTER we were again seated one of our party
turned to Emil and asked if all could ac-
^ quire the art of healing. He said, “The
power to heal can be obtained only as we learn
to trace things out from their source. Supremacy
over every discord can come only in the degree
that we understand that they do not come from
God.
“The divinity that shapes your destinies is not a
mighty person molding you as a potter molds his
clay, but a Mighty Divine Power, within and all
around you and around and in all substance,
which is yours to use as you will. If you do not
realize this you can not have confidence in your­
selves. The greatest cure for inharmony is the
knowledge that it is not from God, and that God
never did create it.
“The brain has the quality of receiving and re­
cording the vibrations of any object that the eye
conveys to it. The vibrations of the lights and
shades and colors are all recorded. It also has the
quality of reproducing these vibrations and pro­
jecting them out again, this time through the inner
vision, and we again see the picture the eye has
conveyed. You are reproducing this in your
camera every time you expose a sensitized plate.
That plate receives and records the vibrations that
the object you wish to photograph, sends out.
After the vibrations are received and recorded on
the plate you must fix the result on the plate be­
fore they will become permanent, so that you can
see them. It will be only a short time before you
will find that the movements and colors of the
objects that you photograph can be recorded and
[52]
projected by first fixing and then returning or
projecting the lights and colors at the same rate of
vibration they were received and fixed.
“It is the same with thought and word and act.
Each selective set of brain cells takes up and
records its corresponding set of vibrations and
when these vibrations are repeated and projected
they can be reproduced just as they took place, if
the cells are held directly to their duty.
“There are also another set of selective brain
cells that can receive, record and fix the vibrations
of the thoughts, acts, motions and pictures that
other bodies or forms send out. These vibrations
can again be reproduced and projected and you
can so arrange these cells that you can reproduce
the words and motions of these bodies or objects
and even the thoughts of those that send them out.
Through these cells you can assist others as well
as yourself to control their thoughts. It is through
these cells that accidents and calamities are
brought about, such as wars, earthquakes, floods,
fires and all the trouble that mortal man is heir
to. Someone either sees a thing happen or
imagines it happens, the corresponding vibration
is fixed in the cells, sent out to be impressed on
the corresponding cells of other brains, then again
projected back, until the thing is so fixed that it
happens.
“All these things can be avoided if the thought
that sustains them is immediately withdrawn and
the vibrations are not allowed to be fixed upon
those brain cells, so that those vibrations can not
be again projected. It is through this set of cells
that all calamities are foretold.
“There is still another set of selective brain cells
that receive, record and fix the vibrations of the
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[53]
thoughts and activities of Divine Mind, wherein
all the true vibrations are created and sent out.
This Divine Mind, or God, pervades every sub­
stance and is always sending out divine and true
vibrations and if we hold these cells to their true
office, we are able to receive and send out the same
true and divine vibrations that we receive from
Divine Mind. Thus we do not have the Divine
Mind, but we have the cells that receive and
project the vibrations from Divine Mind.”
There was a pause and deep silence for a mo­
ment, then a picture appeared upon the wall of
the room. It was still at first, but in a moment it
became animated and after the lapse of about
another minute, the scene began to change and
scenes that could represent nearly any of those
enacted in any or all of the more prosperous busi­
ness centers of the world came flooding in. While
they were changing very rapidly, there was suffi­
cient time for us to recognize and name many
familiar places, and one in particular, as it was a
reproduction of the scenes enacted when we landed
in Calcutta in December, 1894. This was long be­
fore we had ever heard of the cinema or motion
picture. Yet these pictures depicted and brought
out all the movements of the human form and
other objects. These pictures continued to pour in
at intervals of about one minute duration for
nearly an hour.
While these pictures were passing, Emil spoke
and said, “These pictures represent the conditions
that exist in the world today. You will note the
air of general peace and prosperity that prevails
over a greater portion of the earth. There is a
reasonable amount of contentment, and the people
seem undisturbed and generally happy. But under­
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[54]
neath there is a seething caldron of discord,
generated by man’s own ignorant thinking. There
is hate, intrigue and discord among nations. Men
are beginning to visualize great military establish­
ments, the like of which was never before known
on earth. While we are doing everything in our
power to bring out the good, our combined efforts
will not be sufficient to sway those that are deter­
mined to rule in their own might. If they are able
to perfect and launch their diabolical plans—and
this we fully expect they will do, for people and
nations are sleeping just when they should be
awake and thinking—within a few years you will
see enacted pictures like these.” Then ten or twelve
war scenes came trooping by. They were scenes
that wé never dreamed could actually take place
and we gave them but little thought.
Emil continued, “We are hoping almost against
hope, that these can be averted. Time will tell,
and these conditions are what we are hoping will
prevail.” Then scenes of beauty and peace beyond
all description came trooping past, and Emil said,
“These are scenes that all of you will see enacted,
but we wish you would, inso-far as possible, put
the second series of pictures out of your minds, as
that will help us more than you think.”
After a short pause one of our party asked what
the words “Lord God” implied and Emil continued.
“The Lord God was used to designate the Perfect
Being that the Divine Principle, or God, created
to bring out His qualities here on earth. This
Being was created in the image and likeness of
the Divine Principle and had access and could use
everything that the Divine Principle had. This
Being was given power and dominion over every
condition that existed upon the earth. This Being
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[55]
had all the potentialities of the Divine Principle
and the power to bring them forth as long as He
co-operated with the Divine Principle and de­
veloped the faculties that had been given Him, in
the ideal way that Divine Principle had planned
or was holding in mind. This Being was after­
wards called Lord God, which meant the expres­
sion in creative action, or Law of God. This is the
Perfect Being that the Divine Principle holds in
mind for man to express. This is the Divine and
Only Man that the Divine Principle created. Man,
on the spiritual side of his nature, has access to
and can become this Lord God or One Man. This
Divine Man afterwards became known as the
Christ. He had dominion over heaven and earth
and all things therein. Then the Lord God, using
His power to create, did create other beings like
unto Himself. These beings were afterwards called
sons of the Lord God, and their Creator was called
Father and the Divine Principle was called God.”
Here he paused for a moment and held out his
hand and almost immediately there was a large
piece of plastic substance in his hand that re­
sembled clay. This he placed on the table and
began molding it into a form which afterwards
took on the image of a beautiful human figure
about six inches in height. So deftly did he work
that the image was finished in a very short time.
After the image was finished, he held it in both
hands for a moment, then he held it up and
breathed upon it and it became animated. He held
it in his hands for a moment longer, then placed
it on the table, where it moved about. It acted
so much like a human being that we never asked
a question, but stood with our mouths and eyes
wide open and stared. Then Emil spoke, quoting,
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[56]
“ ‘And the Lord God created man from the dust
of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the
breath of life and he became a living soul.’ Then
sons of the Lord God created man from the dust
of the ground and they with their creative ability
did breathe the breath of life into the statue and it
became a living soul. The genius can do this with
his pottery or handiwork. If he leaves the statue
or picture as his hands form it, it is an image
and he has no responsibility, but if he does go on
and use his creative power to put life into it, his
responsibility never ceases. He must keep watch
of each of his creations and they must be held in
divine order. This is where man in one way lost
contact with God. He made images like these,
then he did not withdraw the life, which he in his
ardor had endowed them with and they wandered
over the earth without purpose or aim. Whereas,
had he withdrawn the life he had endowed them
with, there would have been but the statue and
his responsibility would have ceased.” Here the
image stopped moving and Emil continued, “You
have seen the clay in the hands of the potter, but
it is man, not God, that is manipulating the clay.
Had he created it from God’s pure substance as
he was created, it, like him, would have been a
pure and true son. This will be much clearer to
you after you have translated the first series of
tablets. As it is late I think you would like to
retire.”
As soon as the last guest had departed, we pre­
pared to retire, feeling that the last few days had
been filled to overflowing.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[57]
CHAPTER VI
T
HE next morning we took up the regular
work of translating the characters in order
to get as clear an insight as possible into
the meaning of the characters employed in com­
piling the records. In fact we were learning the
alphabet of this ancient writing. In this we be­
came very deeply engrossed, with our hostess as
teacher. We had been occupied in this work for
about two weeks when we went to the temple one
morning and found our friend Chander Sen, who
had apparently died and been resurrected, in the
solid flesh with the unmistakable form, but not a
vestige of old age about him. There was no mis­
taking him. As we came into the room he arose
from the chair and came forward with a hearty
greeting and handshake. You can imagine our
surprise as we gathered around and shook his
hand and began to ask questions. We were like a
gang of school boys turned loose and all attempted
to ask questions at the same time. We certainly
did appear like such a gang that had singled out
some boy that had something new and the others
were finding out all there was about it. But the
fact remained; there he was, with the unmistak­
able form and voice, but not a trace of old age
about him. Even the voice had regained the vi­
brant quality of middle life and everything about
him showed the quality of a well-developed life,
buoyant and keenly alive. The expression of the
eyes and face was far beyond anything that I could
put into words. In the first few moments we could
do nothing but picture to ourselves the contrast.
When we first saw him he was a decrepit old man,
leaning on a long staff for support, with long snow-
white locks, halting step and emaciated form.
[58]
One of our party had remarked when we first met
him, “Here we find among these great souls, one
so aged that he seems ready to pass to the great
beyond.” Of course the transformation which we
had witnessed just a few days previous had left
its impression, but his sudden disappearance had
rather taken him and the incident out of our
minds as we did not think we would ever see him
again. Then the incidents that had followed after
in quick succession had put this one so far into the
background that I believe every one in our party
had nearly forgotten the occurrence. Then having
it brought back so vividly, to say that we were
nonplussed is putting it very mildly. It was more
than a rejuvenation. I can compare it only to the
transfiguration of the one we love and respect so
dearly. That soul was surely reborn, judging
from the contrast of his appearance the first time
we met him and this morning. It is true that we
had known him only a short time, but we had
been thrown in daily contact with him for a suffi­
cient time to see and know that he was an old
man. He was with us for nearly two years after
this, acting as our guide and interpreter across
the great Gobi. Years after, when two or three of
the party would meet and our experiences were
recalled, the experience of that morning would be
the first subject brought up. In recounting these
events, I am not going to attempt to follow our
whole conversation and record it word for word,
for we consumed the greater part of two days in
just talking, and I believe a detailed account
would be tedious reading. Therefore in this in­
stance I will bring out only the main points.
After the first excitement had somewhat abated,
we were seated and he began by saying, “As the
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[59]
body represents the lowest degree of thought
activities, so the Spirit represents the highest
thoughts of Divine Mind. As the body is the outer
expression of the thought, so the Spirit is that in
which the form takes its initial impulse direct
from Divine Mind. It is the most immortal and
real Self, in which resides all the potentialities of
Divine Mind.
“The thought atmosphere is a real, substantial
thing and has in it all that makes the body. So
many people consider the things that they can
not see as unsubstantial, and although they are
told, over^ and over that they can not conceal
themselves, they go right on believing that they
can. Did Adam and Eve conceal themselves when
they were hiding from the Lord, or Law of God?
It is well for us to know the truth that we do carry
around with us the open book of our lives, out of
which all men read whether we realize it or not.
Some people are good thought readers, while
others are dull, but all can read a little and you
can not conceal yourselves. Also our thought
atmosphere is constantly precipitating its slowly
cooling words on our body and there it is seen of
all men. We can, with a little practice, feel the
thought force of this atmosphere that surrounds
us, and gradually gain a realization of its exist­
ence as real as that of the outer world.
“I have learned that as man may touch the earth
with his feet, so on the wings of aspiration may
he soar to celestial heights. Like those of old,
he may walk the earth and talk with God; and
the more he does so, the more difficult it will be
for him to discover where Universal Life ends
and where individual existence begins. When
man forms an alliance with God through spiritual
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[60]
understanding, the boundary line between God
and man disappears. When this point is reached
man will know what Jesus meant when he said,
‘I and my Father are one.’
“The great philosophers through the ages have
accepted the idea of man as a trinity, but it never
was their belief that he has a triple personality.
They have considered him a being who in his
nature is triune.
“The tendency to personalize all things has de­
graded that which is called the Blessed Trinity
into the impossible conception of three in one
when it can be best understood as the Omnipres­
ence, Omnipotence, Omniscience of the Universal
Mind, which is God. As long as men consider the
Blessed Trinity as three persons in one, and as
something that must be accepted even though it
cannot be explained, they will dwell in the wilder­
ness of superstition, and thus of doubt and fear.
“If the triune nature of God is spiritual rather
than physical, then should the trinity in man be
seen from a mental rather than from a material
point of view. One of the wise philosophers has
said, ‘Despising everything else, a wise man
should strive after a knowledge of Self, for there
is no knowledge that is higher, or that brings more
satisfaction of power, than a knowledge of his
own being. For if a man knows his real Self, he
cannot do otherwise than discover his latent possi­
bilities, his concealed powers, his dormant facul­
ties. Of what avail, if a man should ‘gain the
whole world and lose his own soul.’ His soul is
his spiritual self and if he truly discovers his
spiritual self he can build a whole world if he is
serving his fellow men by doing so. I have
learned that he who would attain the ultimate
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[61]
goal must search the depths of his real Self, and
there he will find God Who is the fullness of all
good. It is because man is a trinity in unity com­
posed of spirit, soul and body, that in a state of
spiritual ignorance he has the tendency to think
on a level with the lowest degree of his nature,
which is the physical.
“The ignorant man looks to his body for all the
pleasure that he gets and then there comes a time
when he gets from the senses all the pain that he
can stand. What he does not learn through
wisdom he must learn through woe, and after
repeated experiences he will not deny that wisdom
is the better way. Jesus, Osiris and Buddha said
that with all our understanding, we must get
wisdom.
“The thought operating on the plane of the intel­
lectual raises the vibrations of the body to the
point of that which corresponds to liquid. On this
plane, thought is neither wholly material nor
wholly spiritual. It is vibrating like a pendulum
between materiality and spirituality, but there
comes a time when one must choose whom he
will serve. If he chooses materiality, a world of
confusion and chaos awaits him. He may choose
the spirit and if he does so choose he may ascend
to the dome of the temple of God in man. This
state of thought can be compared to the gaseous
in matter which is elastic and tends to expand
indefinitely. God always leaves it for man to say
whether he will control his fluidic stream of
thought in the direction of those celestial heights
which bear him above the fog line of doubt, fear,
sin and sickness, or let it sink to the sordid depths
of the animal in man.
“If in thinking of man as a trinity of spirit, mind
[ 62]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
and body, we consider him principally from the
standpoint of mind, or soul, we shall see that he
occupies a position between two great extremes of
mental activity, the lower of which is the body
and the higher, of the spirit. Mind is the connect­
ing link between the visible and invisible. Oper­
ating on the plane of the senses, the mind becomes
the seat of all the animal appetites and passions.
It is the serpent in your Garden of Eden which
beguiles you into partaking of the poison fruit.
When Jesus said, ‘As Moses lifted up the serpent
in the wilderness, even so must the son of man be
lifted up,’ he was not referring to the raising of
his body on the cross, hut to the elevation of the
soul, or mind, above sense delusions. Standing
between spirit and body, though separated from
neither, the soul or mind is capable of thinking
even lower than the brute thinks, or it may enter
into conscious union with pure spirit where there
is an abundance of peace, purity and God Power.
“When the son of man is lifted up to that realm
where he rises above the fallacies of the physical
realm, he thinks and acts on the plane of pure
intelligence, where he discriminates between those
instincts which he shares with every other animal
and those divine intuitions which he has in com­
mon with God. I have been shown that when man
thinks on a plane with pure spirit the soul enters
consciously that realm wherein it perceives the
ideal of things, rather than the things themselves.
It is no longer dependent upon the senses, for with
clearer vision it sees the broad horizon’s grander
view. It is here that truth is revealed by Divine
Intelligence and speaks the inspiring and health­
giving message.
“When the son of man has been lifted from the
[63]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
depth of his material world, and he has been sur­
rounded by pictures of tranquil beauty and refine­
ment of the mental world, after a time he is seized
with a healthy dissatisfaction, and the ever up­
ward urge of the soul bears him to higher realms.
There he no longer sees the pictures of tranquillity
but dwells in the land of tranquillity, surrounded
by perpetual beauty. He has glimpsed the inner
and to him that has become the all, and the outer
has become the inner. He lives in a world of
causes where before he moved in a world of
effects.
“The spirit of triune man is pure intelligence,
that region of his being where neither sense testi­
mony nor human opinion has any weight against
ascertained truth; it is the Christ within, or the
Son of God in the son of man, the discovery of
which sets at rest doubt and its discouragements.
It is from this pinnacle of his being that man
views all things with the clear vision of the edu­
cated soul. He beholds more things in heaven and
upon earth than are dreamed of in any philoso­
phy. When he learns that he is not body with a
mind which is ruled either from within or without,
but both can be made obedient servants to his real
spiritual self, he has brought into expression that
God-given dominion with which he was originally
endowed.
“Spirit is the supreme essence of man’s being. It
is never diseased and never unhappy, for as that
great soul, Emerson, says, ‘It is the finite that suf­
fers. The infinite lies stretched in smiling repose.’
Job of your Bible told you that man was Spirit
and the breath of the Almighty gave him life. It
is indeed the Spirit in man which gives life, and
that Spirit rules his lower activities. Spirit issues
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[64]
commands with authority and all things become
subordinate to righteous rule.
“A new era, wrapped in the garment of ap­
proaching day, is dawning in the hearts of men
and soon again will the virgin Spirit of God shine
forth from the heart, and the door will again open,
by which all who will may find entrance to a
larger and fuller life. Young, vibrant, with peren­
nial youth and hope and endeavor, the soul of
man stands on the threshold of a new era, more
glorious than any other that has brightened the
sky since Creation’s dawn. The Star of Bethlehem
shone brighter at Jesus’ birth than it had before
but soon its brightness will be like the noonday
sun, for this new light foretells the day when the
Christ is born in the hearts of all men.”
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[65]
A
CHAPTER VII
T
HE next morning Chander Sen continued his
talk. “I have been shown beyond a question
of doubt that the human intelligence can be
transmuted into Divine Intelligence. As this was
made plain to me, I found that I could enter the
Kingdom of God and that Kingdom was right
within. Now I know that God is the only power,
Omnipresent and Omniscient and that sin, discord,
sickness, old age and death belong only to a past
experience. I now perceive the reality and know
that I have been lost in the mist of illusion. Time
and space have completely disappeared and I
know that I now dwell in the subjective and it
belongs to the objective world. Had it been possi­
ble for me to have held to the promptings and the
glimpses the finer senses have revealed from time
to time, how many weary and anxious hours
would I have been saved. While in youth I, like
the greater portion of humanity, decided that
there was but one life to live and that was the
gratification of self in every way, so I determined
to get the most out of that life. I made self-seek­
ing the principal aim in life, and I gave the animal
passions full sway, with the result that I dissipated
the life fluids of my body until it was but the
empty shell that you first saw. Let me bring forth
a picture that will more graphically illustrate my
thoughts.” He sat silent for a moment and a pic­
ture like those already described appeared upon
one wall of the room. This was the picture of
himself as we had seen him a short time ago. It
was that of an old man, tottering along, leaning
on his wooden staff. Following this was the like­
ness of the man as he appeared this morning. He
continued, “The first represents the one that has
[66]
dissipated the energies and life fluids of his body
until nothing but the empty shell remains. While
the other represents the one that has conserved
his energies and the vital life fluids within his
body. You look upon this in my case as a com­
plete and almost immediate rejuvenation, which
is true. But I look at it from another angle. How
many could be as fortunate as I was, to have the
help and sympathy and assistance of those dear
ones as I have.
“In order that you may get my thought, let us
follow the life of one from birth to the end, as so
many look upon death. The child is born, it is
unconscious of the life-carrying fluids that course
through its body as they are inactive because the
organs that generate the life fluids are inactive
and not yet developed. During this stage of
development, if the child is normal, it is beautiful,
active and bubbling over with life. The life fluids
are built up stronger and stronger, until the child
reaches the stage of development where the life
fluids are active, and they may be dissipated. If
this dissipation takes place, in a few years the
child begins to show age. The eyes lose their
luster, the body its activity and grace, the features
become set and in a few more years the brain
loses its power of co-ordination with the muscles,
and the body is that of a decrepit old man or
woman, but the empty shell of the former self.
“Then take the one that has conserved all the
life fluids and allowed them to circulate in their
natural course through the body and see how
strong and vigorous that one is. Should that one
go on always conserving the life fluids, even
though he did not perceive any higher idea of life
than to be born, live a short time upon this earth,
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[67]
then pass on, the span of that life would be ex­
tended from three to four times that of the one
that has dissipated the life fluids. If he does
perceive that there is a greater scheme in God’s
plan for him he will at all times conserve the life
fluids in the body as he soon finds that they are a
necessary adjunct for perfect development.
“It was only a short time ago that your learned
ones began to know of the delicate system of
arteries and veins composing the circulatory
system of your bodies. It is still left for them to
determine that there is a far more delicate and
subtle circulatory system throughout your body
which carries the life force to every atom of your
body. Through your nervous system this life force
is sent to a set of cells in the brain. These cells
in turn act as a distributor for the force and it is
sent out to every atom of the body, along the
nerves, for which it has an affinity. It also acts as
a protection for the nerves. If the life force is
dissipated, the cells become set and cannot change
for the new cells that are formed to take their
place and the new cells are thrown off instead of
the old ones, which gradually decompose and die.
If the life force is conserved, the cells change as
readily at five hundred years as at ten.
“It will be found that when all the life force is
conserved, the body can be so charged with life
that you can speak life into all forms. You can
paint a picture, model a statue, or take any of
your handiwork that expresses your ideal and
breathe the breath of life into it, and it will be­
come alive. It will speak to you and to others
who can see the life inspiration that you have
spoken into it, and it will be active because you,
the Lord God of you, has spoken and it is as He
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[68]
wills. But those forms will not assume the
human, unless you carry them to the God Life.
If you do give them life you must carry them
through to the pure God Life; then they are perfect
forms, as you are perfect, and you have fulfilled
your responsibility. This you will find is true
genius.
“There is one vital error that I wish to point out.
The genius, as you consider him, as he begins to
develop, has consciously or unconsciously devel­
oped the ability to conserve and send the life
forces in their purity through their natural chan­
nels, and this condition has animated his body and
the creative faculty and he sees that there is some­
thing higher for him to express than the ordinary.
While he conserves the life forces and gives them
free rein, he will go on to more and more glori­
ous achievements, but if he allows sex lust to
creep in, he quickly loses his creative power. The
body has been first built up by conserving the life
forces until the cells are of a finer texture than
the lower order of one that has dissipated the life
force. By this time the genius has risen to fame
and not having developed his deeper perceptive
or God power, is carried away by self-glory. He
forsakes his guiding light because he has not been
fully awakened, and in the urge for greater excite­
ment begins to dissipate the life forces, and
quickly loses all power. For if man does raise
his thought above the animal passions and con­
serves the life forces, until the body has begun to
take on the finer texture, then allows himself to
fall back, he will go back much more rapidly than
one that has not been thus awakened.
“When one has been awakened so that he will
conserve all the life forces and let them be distrib­
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[69]
uted to the nerves in the natural way, then let them
go coursing along the nerves to every atom of the
body without deforming it with thoughts of sex-
lust or passion, the exhilaration will be permanent,
and the sensation will far transcend that of sex.
The serpent will be lifted up and will not need to
crawl on its belly through the murk and mire of
lust and passion.
“If man could understand that this life fluid is
many times more vital than a corresponding
amount of pure blood, he would conserve instead
of dissipate it. But he shuts his eyes to this fact
(he may be entirely ignorant of it) and goes on,
either in blindness or ignorance, until the time
when the Reaper arrives. Then a wail goes up, for
he does not admire the harvest.
“You look upon old age with veneration and
snow-white locks as a crown of honor, which I
would not detract from in any way. But as you'
look upon the picture, I leave it for you to decide
which is the more to be honored; he with the snow-
white locks, who has by ignorance or direct per­
versity brought decrepitude upon himself, or the
one who, with mature years, becomes more vital,
stronger, and better equipped to meet the advanc­
ing years and because of them is more kind and
generous. I recognize that the one who reaches
the end through ignorance is to be pitied, while
the one who knows, and reaches the same end, is
unspeakable.”
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[70]
CHAPTER VIII
F
ROM this time on we applied ourselves dili­
gently to learn our alphabet with Chander
Sen as our instructor. The days passed alto­
gether too quickly and April was drawing to a
close with the greater part of the records still to be
translated, but we were consoling ourselves that
we would be able to return and finish the transla­
tions. Our friends had translated a large portion
of these records for us but had insisted upon our
study of the characters so that we would be able
to translate them for ourselves.
During the preceding September, we had ar­
ranged to meet a party in the Gobi Desert and
it was to accompany us to the site of three of
the ancient ruined cities, the location of which is
given by some of these records. While we had
not, as yet, seen these records we were told of
their existence. Those that we had previously
seen and that had aroused our curiosity were but
copies of the records we had before us. Both of
the sets place the dates of these cities back over
two hundred thousand years, and it is claimed
that the inhabitants were in a high state of civil­
ization, as they knew the arts and crafts and were
able to work iron and gold; that gold was a very
common metal, so common that they used it in
making drinking vessels and for shoeing their
horses. It is claimed that these people had abso­
lute command of all the natural forces as well as
their own God-given powers. In fact, the legends,
if legends they are, told therein are quite similar
to those of Greek mythology. If the maps are
correct this great empire covered the greater por­
tion of Asia and extended into Europe as far as
the Mediterranean Sea, to about where France is
[71]
now located, and the greatest elevation was about
six hundred feet above sea level. It is claimed
that this was a great plain area, very productive
and well populated, and a colony of the Mother­
land. There is no question that, if the remains of
these cities can be found and uncovered, some
very valuable history will be disclosed, as the
description these records gave of this country far
outshone that of ancient Egypt for pomp and
splendor during the dynasties of its seven kings.
Even before the reign of these kings, it is de­
scribed as being far more prosperous. As the
people ruled themselves, there were no wars and
no vassals and slaves. They unquestionably named
their first ruler the Directive Principle and they
distinctly say that his home was among the people
and that the people loved and obeyed him. These
records state that the first king of the first dynasty
usurped the rule from the Directive Principle and
set himself upon a throne to rule.
Time had sped on with rapid feet and we were
busy getting everything in readiness for the start
of the expedition, as we were obliged to be on our
way in order to keep our appointment in May at
the meeting place agreed upon, where we were
to replenish our supplies and equip the main expe­
dition for the final journey.
Words absolutely fail me when I undertake to
record my thoughts and feelings as the time for
our departure drew near. Every hour of our stay
had been a joy, and there had not been a dull
hour.
Although we had been with these people and
shared their homes for more than five months,
the time had passed so rapidly that it seemed
only a few days. Yet what a world of possibilities
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[72]
had been opened to us. It was as though the door
had been thrown wide open and everyone seemed
to feel there were boundless possibilities, and
all we needed do to have all was to just step
through the door—and still we hesitated, just as
we hesitated to leave these magnificent people
whom we looked upon as brothers.
I believe there is a time in the life of every
mortal when he or she can see the door fully
opened—just as each of us saw it that beautiful
April morning—and each and every one can see
the vast possibilities that may be attained. (I am
going to ask the readers to throw aside all preju­
dices for a time, and, if they are able to do so,
see as we saw. I do not expect you to believe, but
I do want you to understand that it is one thing
to write about these people and an entirely dif­
ferent thing to just sit at their feet and listen.)
It seemed that if we would walk boldly up and
step through the door all attainment would be
ours—yet we hesitated. Why was it so? Because
we did not fully believe, we allowed tradition to
drag us back and close the door; then we said the
hand of fate had closed it to us. But we realized
that there is no fate save that which we ourselves
allow.
Here were a kindly, simple, yet most magnifi­
cent people, some of whom for generations and
perhaps always, have lived just through that door
and that life is practical to them. There is no
precedent or tradition here, nothing but a pure,
honest life well lived and lived right here on this
earth. I leave it to the reader to make the con­
trast.
We did hesitate to leave these dear kindly souls
to whom we had become so attached in the last
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[73]
few months, yet we knew that other things
awaited us and we looked forward eagerly to
them. We bade our friends goodbye that beauti­
ful April morning, with cordial handshakes and
salutations and hearty invitations to come again.
With a final goodbye and Godspeed, our faces
were turned northward, this time to actually cross
the great Gobi Desert, with its tales of terrible
hardships as dim visions in our imaginations, but
we were unafraid, for Emil and Jast were again
with us, and Chander Sen in Neprow’s place.
To us, who had visited many lands, as the com­
pany swung along on the trail it seemed all a part
of the day’s work and I do not think there was
one in our little band but was glad to be there,
nor do I think there was one but recognized that
a new world had begun to open and unfold. All
recognized the remoteness of the country and the
hazards of an ordinary trip of this nature, yet
there was that irresistible urge to go on. With
the absolute confidence we had in our great
friends, all fear, or thought of inconvenience for
self was thrown to the winds and we entered into
the zest of the thing with the enthusiasm of
schoolboys.
We were accustomed to the remote places of
the earth but never had we experienced a country
so remote, yet one where we could travel with the
freedom and ease that we were experiencing here.
Do you wonder that we were infatuated with the
country and our benefactors? We felt that we
could go right on north until we had negotiated
the polar regions and conquered them. We had
not gone far when one of our party said, “0, if we
could only travel as those fellows can, this part
would be easy. Just because we cannot travel as
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[74]
they do, they plod along with us.” All went well
until the evening of the seventh day out. At about
five o’clock that afternoon, we were just emerging
from a deep ravine which we had followed down
in order to gain access to the more open country
below, when one of the party called out that there
were horsemen in the distance. We turned our
glasses upon them and counted twenty-seven
horsemen who seemed to be fully armed. We re­
ported this to Jast and he said they probably were
one of the roving bands that infest the country.
We asked if they were one of the bandit bands and
he said that he expected they were, as they did not
appear to be tending any flocks.
We left the trail and proceeded to a clump of
trees and made camp for the night. While the
camp was being prepared two of our party crossed
the stream near where we were camping and
climbed to the top of a ridge that would give them
an outlook over the rolling country where we had
first discovered the party of horsemen. When they
had gained the summit they stopped and placing
their field glasses to their eyes, stood for a mo­
ment, then turned and hurried toward camp. As
soon as they came within hailing distance they re­
ported that the party of horsemen was not over
three miles away and was riding toward our
camp. At this time someone remarked that he
believed it was going to storm. We looked and
sure enough there was a heavy bank of clouds
gathering in the northwest and fog was drifting
in from every direction. We became very uneasy
as we could now see the band of horsemen
through the approaching storm, coming down a
rolling slope directly toward our camp. We be­
gan to be very much disturbed about the appear­
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[75]
ance of this band. Although there were thirty-
two in our party, we did not have a firearm of any
description.
At that moment the storm broke upon us with
all the fury of a blizzard. Our apprehension be­
came far more intense for a moment, as we had
experienced the intense fury of a blizzard in that
mountain fastness before. For a few moments
the wind lashed and roared and drove the fine
particles of snow around us with the fury of a
seventy-mile gale and it looked as if we would
be obliged to move our camp to escape the falling
limbs that were being broken from the trees by
the storm. Then everything became calm where
we were, and we thought for a moment that it was
only a squall, such as often happens in that coun­
try, and it would soon blow over. There was a dim
half light which enabled us to see and we turned
to and set the camp in order. We were occupied
with this work for about half an hour and had
not given a thought to either the storm or the sup­
posed bandits that had caused so much uneasiness
a short time before. As we stopped for breath
for a moment, our Chief walked to the entrance of
the tent and looked out, then turned and said, “The
storm seems to be raging a short distance away,
but where we are there is scarcely a breath of air
stirring. Just look, the tents and trees around are
hardly moving and the air seems warm and
balmy.” A number of our party followed him
outside and we stood for a moment wondering,
for while we were in the tent and occupied, we
were half conscious of the noise the storm was
making but we supposed it had blown over and
was traveling up the ravine, as some of the storms
in that country come on like a cyclone and travel
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[76]
for miles before they expend their fury, and after
they have passed over there is a dead calm. This
was not the case here. The blizzard was raging
with all its fury within a hundred feet of us, but
where we stood the air was still and warm. Our
former experience had been that the cold was in­
tense and pierced one through and through, while
the wind drove the icy needle-like particles of
snow around and along with it in blinding fury
until one was nearly suffocated.
Suddenly the circle lighted up as if by magic.
As we stood wondering we thought we heard
shouts of men above the din of the storm. Supper
was announced; w'e went in and sat down. While
we were eating one of the party wondered what
had become of the horsemen we had seen descend­
ing the slope. One of our party said that “we
thought we had heard shouts while we were out­
side and wondered if we could not be of some
assistance in case they were lost in the blizzard.”
Jast spoke and said that these men belonged to
one of the most notorious bands of bandits that
roamed the nearby country and that they did
nothing but rob and plunder villages and drive off
the herds of sheep and goats. After supper, during
a lull in the storm, we could hear shouting and the
horses were lunging and snorting as though they
would break from control. Although they seemed
but a short distance away, we could not see them,
so dark and dense was the snow that was whirled
along by the wind, neither could we see any sign
of a camp fire. In a few moments Emil arose and
said he would go and invite them to our camp, for
unless they were well prepared it would be im­
possible for man or beast to survive the storm
until morning as the cold was growing intense
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[77]
outside. As he was preparing to leave the tent,
two of our party asked to accompany him. This
seemed to please him; he accepted and they dis­
appeared in the storm. After about twenty min­
utes had elapsed they reappeared, followed by
twenty of the bandit band leading their horses.
They told us afterwards that seven had become
separated from them and were probably lost in
the storm. Those that gathered in our circle were
a unique and motley lot of half-wild looking
creatures. The moment they entered the circle of
light they seemed to become suspicious that there
was some plot on foot to capture them, and they
showed their alarm until Emil assured them they
were at liberty to go at any time if they wished,
and showed them that we had no mode of defense
if they wished to attack us. This, their leader said,
they had prepared to do when they saw us emerge
from the ravine before the storm came on. After
the storm came, they had become bewildered and
lost their way so they did not know where their
camp was located. When Emil and the two from
our party found them they were huddled together
against a cliff about a hundred yards down stream
from where we were camped. The leader said if
they were driven out they would certainly perish.
Emil assured them that this would not happen.
They made their horses secure for the night among
the trees, then gathered in a group by themselves,
sat down and began eating dried goat meat and yak
butter which they took from their saddle pouches.
While they were thus occupied, they kept their
arms near at hand and would start and listen at
any increased sound. They talked and gesticu­
lated freely, and Jast told us they were wondering
at our equipment and the light, why the wind was
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[78]
not blowing, why it was warm within the circle,
and why the horses were so content. One of the
party, who was doing most of the talking, had
heard of our friends before, as he was telling that
these people were like gods and that it was told
they could destroy them, the bandits, in an instant
if they would. Jast also said that some of the
party were attempting to influence the others to
take everything we had and go on as they thought
it was a plot to capture them, and that this one
man was standing firm that we should not be
molested. He was telling them that if they did
harm us they would all be destroyed. After the
talk had gone on for considerable time, eight of
them arose and came over to where we were
standing and told Jast they would not stay, that
they were very much afraid and were going to try
and go to their camp as it was located on the same
stream but a few miles below. They had been
able to get their location from the clump of trees
that we were camped in. They then mounted
their horses and rode away down stream. They
all returned in about twenty minutes, saying the
snow had fallen so deep their horses could not
travel and face the storm, which was the heaviest
they had experienced for many years. Then they
began making themselves comfortable for the
night. One of our party said, “Well, I expect they
will he more comfortable here, even if they are
afraid, than they would be out in the storm.” Jast
turned to us and said, “The Father’s house is
where you are abiding, for if you are within that
house and do there abide, you are in the glad
spirit of the Father. For of what avail is the
warmth and cheer that abides within the house
if you are not of the house or know not the
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[79]
warmth and cheer that abides therein. You may
invite those that remain just without and they will
not enter for they know not where you abide.
These dear ones here, while they feel the warmth,
will not come nearer for the reason that they
have always preyed upon their fellow men and
they cannot understand that those same men
whom they have looked upon as legitimate prey
should befriend them without some reason for
doing so, especially as they do not belong to their
band. They do not know that within the snow, or
cold, or heaviest storm, the Father abides and
those who make His home their home and therein
abide cannot be harmed by storm or wind or tide.
It is only when you are out of contact with God
that the winds, the storms, and tides sweep over
you.
“It is when one can stand steadfastly and un­
waveringly with his eyes fixed directly on God,
knowing and seeing no other, that he can accom­
plish what you now see. Our thought is ‘I stand
steadfastly with my eyes fixed on You, 0 Father,
knowing naught but You, Father, and I see naught
but God in all things. I stand firmly in the Holy
Mount, knowing naught but Your Love, Life and
Wisdom. Your Divine Spirit pervades me always.
It surrounds me and abounds within and without
me always. I know, Father, that this is not for me
alone, but it is for all Thy children. I know,
Father, that I have naught but that which they
have and there is naught but God for all. I thank
Thee, Father.’
“The real peace may be found in the heart of the
storm, but deep in the heart of the man who has
found himself is the true calm. On the contrary,
man may be in the remote wilderness alone with
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[80]
the twilight and the vast silence of nature, and yet
be torn by the winds of passion or shaken by the
thunders of fear.
“Nature, carelessly observed, seems to have
given brute strength, greed and capacity for shed­
ding weaker animals’ blood an incomparable
advantage, but notice some simple facts that few
have thought about.
“There are more lambs in the world than lions.
That is not an accident. Nature is not a blind,
blundering thing. Nature is God at work and He
neither wastes material nor does He blunder in His
building. Does it not strike you as a strange thing
that in the melting pot of Nature’s primal forces
the lion had not eaten up the lamb before man
appeared upon the scene? The lamb has literally
whipped the lion in the struggle for existence.
Nor is it man’s siding with the lamb against the
lion that explains the result. In all probability
man began his career of slaughter by killing the
docile first. It is certain that he kills more lambs
than lions. It is not man but Nature that pro­
nounces condemnation of lion’s kin. Reflect a
moment and you will see that Nature cannot give
distinctive strength in opposite directions to the
same animal. The lion is a great fighter but a
slow breeder. All the strength of his fine body
goes to fighting form. Having young is detrimen­
tal and becomes the incident of his life. The lamb
on the other hand is not a fighter and therefore is
weak. The lamb spends no energy in fighting and
accordingly is a better breeder. Nature acknowl­
edges that in creating the lion she made a mis­
take. She is correcting that mistake. The lion
and all other animals whose instinct is to kill are
disappearing.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[81]
“There are no exceptions to this sentence of ex­
tinction pronounced by Nature’s immutable law
against all beings of the preying kind. Nature
goes according to an eternal equity and by the
very law of the universe the fighter fights a losing
battle, always has and always will; the animal or
the animal man, in the forest or in the city, now
and forever. The lion loses. He loses when he
wins. He dies when he kills. He is by the very
nature of things eating his own kind when he
rends the warm flesh of the lamb he tore from the
flock. When the first lion struck his prey with
his mighty paw and growled through his bloody
chops the delight he felt, he was singing, not the
death of the helpless that he was eating but the
funeral hymn of his own kind. Savagery is a
poor rallying point. Lions do not herd. Bears
do not go in flocks. Savages among men form
small groups and fight each other. Wildness
turns on its own kind among beasts or men and is
a source of weakness.
“In the analogy of things wild beasts must go.
No great soldier ever really conquered anything.
His victories are all illusions. Soldier’s empires,
if they rest on nothing more substantial than the
sword, swiftly fall to pieces. In the end they must
repudiate force and resort to justice and reason
or their empires crumble. The beast of prey,
whether he is brute or human, is solitary, hope­
less and helpless, irrevocably doomed, for gentle­
ness is the real strength. It is the lion with all of
the lion’s attributes, except the taste for blood, and
slowly all life is coming beneath its all conquer­
ing rule.
“Man is made or unmade by himself. In the
armory of thought he forges the weapons by which
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[82]
he destroys himself. He also fashions the tools
with which he builds for himself heavenly man­
sions of joy and strength and peace. By the right
choice and true application of thought, man
ascends to the Divine Perfection. By the abuse
and wrong application of thought he descends
below the level of the beast. Between these two
extremes are all of the grades of character, and
man is their maker and master.
“These men are the remnants of a once great
and prosperous people. Their forefathers in­
habited this country when it was a beautiful,
thriving, industrial empire. They knew the sci­
ences and arts and they also knew their own
origin and power and they worshipped that origin
and power only. There came a time when they
began to look to the body for pleasure and in
time the body failed them. Then a great cata­
clysm swept over the land, devastating it and leav­
ing only a few scattered people on the higher
ground. These developed into communities and
became the larger races of Europe.
“The region where we are and that of the Gobi
Desert was cut off and raised bodily until nothing
grew. The people were so nearly destroyed that
there were only a few isolated communities and
at times only one or two families left. These
gathered in bands and are the ancestors of these
people. They can not prosper as they are con­
tinually at war with each other. While their his­
tory and origin have been forgotten, their religion
and legends can be traced to the one source.
Wherever you find them you will find some of the
fundamentals alike, although their forms differ
widely.”
Here Jast said that he feared he had already
[83]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
wearied us, as all our friends were fast asleep.
We looked in the direction of the bandits, and
sure enough they were all asleep. They, as well as
ourselves, had forgotten the storm, which was still
unabated. We went into the tent and retired,
again thankful to our great friends.
When we awoke the next morning, the sun was
shining and the whole camp was astir. We dressed
hastily and went out to find that the whole com­
pany, bandits and all, were waiting breakfast for
us. At breakfast we were told that it had been
arranged we should travel as far as the bandits’
camp together, as it would be far easier to break
trail when we were all together. The bandits
seemed pleased at the prospect, but I cannot say
we were for we were told there were about one
hundred and fifty at their camp. By the time we
had finished breakfast all vestige of the storm had
passed, so we broke camp and started out with
the bandits and their horses to break trail, leaving
the others to follow with the camp equipment.
Although the bandits’ camp was not over twelve
miles down the river, we did not reach there until
after midday and we were only too pleased to
stop for a little rest. We found the camp very
comfortable, with ample room to accommodate
all our party. After lunch it was decided that we
could make better headway if we waited a day or
two to allow the new snow that had fallen to settle,
as we would be obliged to cross a divide of about
fourteen thousand feet elevation the next day. The
weather did not prove to be as warm as was an­
ticipated, so our stay was prolonged for four days.
The whole village treated us with the greatest re­
spect, and did everything in their power to make
our stay comfortable. When we were leaving two
[84]
of the men came and asked if they could join our
party. As we were expecting to recruit a number
of helpers in the next large village, about seventy
miles farther on, we gladly accepted them and
they were with us until we returned that fall.
When we left the village nearly one-half of the
population accompanied us to the summit of the
high divide in order to assist in breaking trail
through the deep snow and we were very thankful
for their kindly efforts, as it proved a very diffi­
cult ascent. At the summit we bade farewell to
our bandit friends and went on to the appointed
meeting place, arriving there May 28, three days
after the arrival of the friends we had made the
appointment with the fall before.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[85]
CHAPTER IX
A
FTER resting for a week and reassembling
our outfit, the combined expedition set out
- for the ancient city of the Uigurs, where
we arrived June 30. Here we set to work imme­
diately and the first pit was not down to a depth
of fifty feet when we encountered the walls of
an ancient building. When we had proceeded to a
depth of a little more than ninety feet, we broke
into a large room, where we found mummies in
sitting postures with masks of gold over their faces.
There were a number of gold, silver, bronze and
clay statues, all beautifully wrought. These we
photographed. After the work had progressed far
enough to prove beyond a question of doubt that
this had once been a very large city we went on
to the second location, which we found as de­
scribed in the records already referred to. Here
we went down about forty feet before we came
upon anything that could be called definite proof
of a former civilization. Here we did enough work
to prove beyond a question of doubt that we were
in the ruins of a large ancient city.
We removed to a third location, where we ex­
pected to find evidence that would prove this the
oldest and largest of the three cities.
In order to conserve time and resources we had
organized our forces into four parties. Three of
these parties were made up of a leader and six
assistants. This gave seven men to each party. To
this combined force was assigned all the excava­
tion work and its management. Each party was
assigned eight hours out of the twenty-four. The
fourth party, consisting of the remainder of the
personnel of the expedition, was assigned the
duties of the camp and looking after the comfort
[86]
of the entire expedition. I was assigned to the
party of which our Chief was the leader. We were
assigned the eight hours from midnight until eight
in the morning.
After we had completed the first discovery pit
and had gained access to four of the underground
chambers or rooms, we cleared away enough of
the debris to show beyond a question of doubt that
this was the oldest and largest city of the three,
and that it was rich in treasure.
One morning the party that relieved our Chief’s
party reported there were horsemen approaching
our camp from the north. When we reached the
surface we found they were headed in our direc­
tion and it looked as though they were another
bandit band, as they were evidently following
the trail we had made on our way there. As we
stood looking, Jast came up and said, “They are
a band of bandits that are determined to loot the
camp, but I do not think we need fear.” We
waited for them to approach and they came on to
within about five hundred yards of our camp,
where they halted. After a short interval two of
the men rode up to where we were standing and
after exchanging greetings asked what we were
doing there. They were told we were attempting
to find a ruined city. To this they replied they
did not believe a word of what we said. They
suspected we were looking for gold and they had
come to take our equipment and supplies from us.
We asked if they were government soldiers, to
which they replied they did not recognize any
government, as the strongest party was the one
that won in that country. As they saw no evi­
dence of firearms or excitement, I believe they
concluded that there must be a larger force than
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[87]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
was evidenced by what they could see. They re­
turned to their band to talk the situation over.
After a time the two came back and told us that
if we submitted peacefully they would not harm
any of us, but if we did not they would advance
and shoot everyone who showed resistance. We
were given ten minutes to decide and after that
time they would advance without further prelimi­
naries. To this Jast replied that we would neither
resist nor surrender. This seemed to anger them
and, wheeling their horses, they started back
toward the band, waving their arms. Then the
whole hand came toward us at full gallop. I con­
fess that I was badly frightened, but almost in­
stantly we seemed to be surrounded by a number
of shadowy forms on horseback, galloping around
us. Then these forms became more lifelike and
increased in numbers. Evidently our visitors had
seen what we were witnessing, for their horses
were either reined in quickly, or they stopped of
their own accord as they began to rear and plunge
and get beyond control of the riders. In a moment
there was wild confusion among the band, which
numbered about seventy-five horsemen. The horses
began plunging right and left, beyond all control
of the riders and this ended in a wild retreat, with
our phantom horsemen, as we called them, in close
pursuit. After the excitement was over, our Chief
and two of the party, including myself, walked
out to where the main band had halted and could
find no tracks except those made by the robbers
themselves. We were very much mystified at this
as the relief looked as real to us as did the bandits,
and they seemed to have come from all sides.
We fully expected to find the tracks of their horses
in the sand, as well as the tracks of the horses the
bandits were riding.
[88]
Wlien we returned, Jast said, “The phantom
horsemen, as you call them, were only pictures,
made so real that you, as well as the bandits,
could see them. In a word they were the pictures
of other occurrences that we were able to produce
so lifelike that they could not be distinguished
from the real occurrence. We are able to produce
them for our own protection as well as for others,
and no one has been harmed. Where a definite
purpose is served there is no harm in the out­
come. A doubt had arisen in the minds of the
bandits. It was not logical that an expedition like
this would venture so far away without some pro­
tection, and we were able to take advantage of this
to frighten them. They are very superstitious and
always on the lookout for trickery. That type is
the most susceptible to fear, and they saw just
what they expected to find. If we had not used
this method we would in all probability have been
obliged to destroy a number of the band before
they would have left us in peace. As it is we will
hear no more of them.” We were not molested
again.
After we had accomplished sufficient work to
convince us that these three cities existed, it was
suggested that we should fill all the pits, in order
to protect them from any roving band that might
discover the work, as such a discovery would lead
to wholesale plundering for the treasure alone.
There are legends among nearly all these bands
that these great cities exist and that they contain
hoards of gold. As we finished work each pit was
filled, so as to leave as little trace as possible, and
the first storm would remove any trace which we
had left. The sand is continually shifting in this
country and this alone makes it very difficult to
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[89]
locate any of these ruins. It would have been im­
possible for us to have made any of the locations
without the assistance of our friends. We were
told that similar ruins extend well into Southern
Siberia.
There is unmistakable evidence that a vast popu­
lation flourished here and that they had reached
a high state of civilization. There is also almost
unlimited proof that these people understood agri­
culture, mining, textiles and their allied indus­
tries, reading, writing and all the sciences. It
is very evident that the history of these people is
the history of the Aryan race.
While seated at the table the afternoon of our
last day, one of the party asked Emil if the history
of this great race could be traced and written. He
answered that it could, that the city beneath the
site of our camp contained the absolute proof in
written records, which, when found and translated,
would give a concurrent and direct history of this
people.
Here the conversation was interrupted by a man
appearing at the door of the tent and asking if he
could come in. Emil, Jast and Chander Sen arose
and hurried to the entrance to meet him. By the
greetings extended we saw they were very well
acquainted and our Chief arose and joined them.
At the door of the tent we saw him stop and stare
for a moment, then he walked quickly out of the
door with both hands extended, saying, “Well,
well, this is indeed a surprise.” A medley of voices
arose as both men and women began to exchange
greetings with him and the three that had stepped
through the door after him. At this, all seated at
the table arose and crowded outside, where we
found a group of fourteen newcomers. The party
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[90]
included Emil’s mother, our hostess from the vil­
lage of our former winter quarters, the beautiful
lady who had presided at the banquet that we at­
tended in Emil’s home, and Emil’s son and daugh­
ter. In all they were a merry crowd and it brought
back remembrances of gatherings of former ddys
at home. The surprise was complete and we
showed it, but the most complete surprise was
shown by the friends who had joined us on this
expedition. As we looked at them, we knew
their curiosity was getting beyond all bounds.
They had not seen these appearances and dis­
appearances as we had, and during the press of
the expedition work we had been so engrossed
that we had neglected to give them anything but
fragmentary incidents of our experiences. Coming,
as this had, virtually from a clear sky, it had left
them absolutely nonplussed. Of course we were
heartily enjoying this at their expense. After in­
troductions and greetings had been extended all
around, the man who had charge of the camp and
equipment sought Emil and our Chief and with
every evidence of abject helplessness said, “How
am I going to feed all these people. Our supplies
have not yet arrived and we have barely enough
provisions left for ourselves for this and the morn­
ing meal, and we have made every arrangement
to start on our return trip.” While they were con­
versing they had drawn together and the leader
of the combined expedition had overheard a part
of the conversation. He stepped over and joined
them. As he did so I could hear him ask, “Where
in the name of heaven did all these people come
from?” Our Chief looked at him with a smile and
said, “You have just hit it, Ray, they did come
direct from heaven. See, there are no convey­
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[91]
ances.” Ray answered, “But the thing that puzzles
me most is, they don’t seem to have any wings.
As they do not have wings, when they landed in
the sand we should have heard the thud, especially
as there are so many of them, but we did not even
hear that. So we are going to conclude for the
time that your suggestion is right and perfectly
logical.” Emil then turned to the company and
said he would be obliged, in order to allay the
fears of the steward, to admonish the visitors for
not bringing along their provisions, as the steward
was fearful lest he would not have enough to go
around. At this the steward seemed greatly em­
barrassed and said he did not think of putting it
quite so bluntly as that, but nevertheless the fact
still remained that there certainly was not enough
edibles to go around. Here the visitors joined in a
merry laugh, which seemed to embarrass him still
more. Then Emil’s mother spoke and said there
was no need for embarrassment or inconvenience.
Our hostess and the beautiful lady of the former
banquet joined in saying they would gladly take
charge and be responsible for the supper, as they
had called fully expecting to share the meal with
us. This relieved the steward and he quickly ac­
cepted the proffered service.
The afternoon was well advanced and it was
one of those days upon the Gobi when the weather
can fairly fawn upon the earth for one moment,
then in the next instant it may transform the
scene into an inferno of relentless fury. Every
available canvas was secured and spread upon the
sand, just outside the circle of the camp. To an
outsider it would have had the appearance of a
merry picnic party, which indeed it was. When
the canvas was all spread, the containers, which
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[92]
were used both for cooking and serving the camp
meals, were brought out with their contents and
placed on the canvas. Then the whole company
gathered around and sat on the edge of the canvas.
We could still see evidences of wonder and per­
plexity on the faces of those who had lately joined
the party. Ray, the leader, looked at the contain­
ers, and said if he saw rightly and the amount of
food the containers held could be stretched suffi­
ciently to feed that hungry mob, he was going to
keep his eyes open for the performance of a
miracle. One of our party said, “You better keep
your eyes wide open for that is just what you are
going to see.” Our Chief said, “That is twice that
you have guessed right today, Ray.” At this the
three ladies began serving from the containers. As
each plate was served it was passed on and an
empty one was received for the full one until all
were served most generously. As the serving pro­
gressed, we could see that the leader was getting
more restless and when his plate came to him he
passed it on, remarking that he could get along
with a much less liberal helping. Our hostess re­
marked that he need not fear, there would be a
plentiful supply for all. After all had been served
bountifully, he again looked at the containers and
as the contents had not diminished he arose and
said, “At the risk of being called impolite, ill-
mannered and a bounder, I am going to ask if I
may come over and sit by you three ladies, as I
fully acknowledge my curiosity has so deliberately
taken the upper hand that I can not eat a bite.”
The ladies said they would look upon it as an act
of courtesy if he wished to sit by them. Where­
upon he walked over and sat down on’ the edge
of the canvas, between Emil’s mother and the
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[93]
beautiful lady. When he was seated someone
asked for bread. There was but one piece remain­
ing on the box lid that served in place of a tray.
The beautiful lady held out her hands and almost
instantly there was a large loaf of bread in them.
This she passed to our hostess, who began cutting
it, preparatory to serving. At this the leader arose
to his feet and asked them if they would kindly
permit him to see the loaf as it was. The loaf was
passed to him and after examining it critically for
a moment he passed it back. We could see that
he was very much agitated. He walked away a
few steps, then returned, and addressing himself
directly to the lady, said, “I do not wish to seem
impertinent, but this has muddled my thoughts to
such an extent that I can not refrain from asking
questions.” She bowed and said he was at liberty
to ask any questions he wished. He said, “Do you
mean to tell me that you are able to set aside all
the known natural laws, at least that we know of,
without the least exertion and bring forth bread
from an unseen or invisible supply?” The lady
replied, “To us the supply is not unseen, it is
always visible.” Then it was perceived that as our
hostess cut and served the loaf it did not diminish.
He became more calm, again took his place, and
the beautiful lady continued: “If you could only
see that the tragedy of Jesus’ life ended with the
crucifixion, while the joy of the Christ life began
with the resurrection, and the goal of every life
should be the resurrection rather than the cruci­
fixion. In this way all may follow him into the
more abundant life of the Christ in them. Can you
think of a more joyous and abundant life than to
be one with this Mighty Power, this power of the
Christ within. It is here you may know that you
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[94]
were created to have dominion over every form,
thought, word or condition. In living this life,
which is the fulfillment of every need, you will
find that you are living an exact, scientific life.
Jesus increased the few loaves and fishes the little
lad had until he was able to supply ample for the
multitude. You will observe that he bade them
sit down in an orderly expectant attitude, ready
to receive the increased supply by the fulfilling
law. If you are to find joy and satisfaction in the
life of Jesus, you must fulfill the law of his life
by acting in harmony with his ideals. You can not
stand and worry as to how you are to be fed, for
if Jesus had done this the multitude never would
have been satisfied. Instead, he quietly blessed
and gave thanks for that which he had and the
supply was increased in sufficient measure to meet
every need.
“Living did not become a difficult problem until
man disobeyed and refused to listen to the Inner
Voice. When he returns and again learns to listen
to that Inner Voice he will cease to labor for the
means of a living, but he will work for the joy of
creating. He will enter into the joy of creating
and he will create under the law of the Lord, or
Word of God. Through His Word he will find that
he can move upon the all-loving and all-enfolding
substance of God, and bring into visibility every
ideal he holds in thought. It was in this way, step
by step, that Jesus mounted to the heights and
proved the supremacy of the Christ in him over
the limited concept of mortal thought. When this
is realized, work becomes a joyous quality of one’s
being. Jesus proved that the true spiritual life is
the only joyous life. He became clothed with dig­
nity and glory because of his victory, yet that vic­
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[95]
tory left him as free as a little child. Although the
world is not wholly awake to its desire, it is this
desire of joy and great blessing that it is seeking.
Man may seek satisfaction in the pursuit of per­
sonal things, unmindful of the law that says he
shall lose that which he seeks for selfish gain. But
through the losing he soon finds that the fall of the
personal but marks the ascent of the spiritual. He
realizes that man’s extremity is God’s opportunity.
This, today, is but one of God’s opportunities, and
it is a great joy to express.
“You must know that you are entitled to every
good and perfect gift of God, and you must pre­
pare to receive those gifts through the knowledge
of God as your Divine Nature. If you separate
yourself from God in thought you will also sepa­
rate yourself from him in manifestation. In order
to enter fully into the joy of life you must seek
life and joy, for the fullness and joy that that life
gives to all humanity.”
Then she turned to the leader and said, “The
laws for the establishment of heaven here on
earth, which Jesus taught and which you have
seen applied in a very small measure, are exact
and scientific. Man, being the son and true like­
ness of God, contains within himself the true spirit
of God, his Father. He can discern and use the
laws of his creative parent and bring them into
full operation in his world of affairs, if he only
will.” Then she said they would be pleased to
answer any questions he might like to ask.
The leader said he did not have any questions
to ask, for he had been too deeply stirred to want
to ask questions. He just wanted to think. He said
he had some things he wanted to say and he hoped
they would not take offense, for none was intended
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[96]
in any way. He continued, “We came here, as we
supposed, to find the remains of a people long since
dead and gone. Instead, we find a people living a
far more wonderful and active life than can be
comprehended. If this thing that we have seen
could be heralded abroad you would have the
whole world bowing at your feet.” The three ladies
said they did not wish the world to bow at their
feet, but they longed to see all mankind bowing
at God’s feet. They went on to say that mankind
already had too many idols. The ideal was the
real, needed thing.
Here the visitors, with the exception of the one
that had called at the door of the tent, arose, say­
ing they must be on their way. With hearty hand­
shakes and Godspeed and invitations to visit them
at any time, they disappeared as suddenly as they
had come, leaving the leader and his party staring
at the place where they had stood. After a moment
the leader turned to the man that had remained
and asked his name. He was told that it was Bag-
get Irand.
Then the leader said to him, “Do you mean to
say that you are able to come and go at will with­
out any visible means of conveyance, as we have
just seen, defying every known law of gravity or
physics ?”
Bagget Irand answered, “We do not defy any
law, neither do we harm a single law of man or
God. We co-operate and work according to and
with all laws, both of Nature and God. The means
of locomotion which we use, although invisible to
you, are perfectly visible to us. The trouble is you
do not see them, consequently you do not believe.
We see, believe, and know, and we are able to
utilize them. When you open your understanding
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[97]
to know and see and use them, you will soon find
that the laws or rules which we use are definite
and are far more capable of being put to greater
uses for mankind than the limited ones which you
see and use. Some day you will find that you have
only touched the surface of man’s possibilities,
and we are always pleased to assist you in any
way we can.”
Here Chander Sen came up and said that this
friend had come to invite us to return to our out­
fitting point by way of his village, as the trail was
shorter and the distance could be made with one
day less travel at this time of the year. This invi­
tation was readily accepted, and Bagget Irand said
he would stay and return with us. It developed
later that he was a descendant of the once pros­
perous people that had inhabited the Gobi region.
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[98]
CHAPTER X
E HAD finished the work mapped out for
the combined expedition, and we were pre­
pared for an early morning start for our
base, where the company would separate and all
except the party of eleven would return to their
respective homes. Four of the party, myself in­
cluded in the number, had decided to accept the
invitation of our friends to return to their homes,
the village of our former winter quarters.
As we stood watching the sunset on the eve of
our departure, one of the party said that he had
begun to wonder how old civilization and religion
really were and if the two had really come hand-
in-hand far down the long ages of time. Jast spoke
and said, “That depends upon what you mean by
religion. If by the use of the word, religion, you
mean creed, dogma or sect, or perhaps supersti­
tion, they are very young and do not antedate
twenty thousand years. But if by the word you
mean a reverence for the true philosophy of life,
a true reverence for life itself, thus a true rever­
ence for the sublime purity of God, of the great
Creative Cause, then you may trace this back be­
yond all history, all mythology, all allegory, to the
time of man’s first advent upon earth, before kings,
emperors, or man-made rule held sway. In the
heart of first man burned or shone forth the great­
est reverence for the source of all life and the
beauty of that life, and the beauty and reverence
of that pure soul shines undimmed through the
long ages and so it will shine on undimmed
through all eternity. When man first took up
life, he knew full well the source. He had the
deepest reverence for that source and that rev­
erence you now know as the Christ. But as we
[99]
come on down the dim corridors of time, we
find them divided into the innumerable sects,
creeds and dogmas until those corridors are di­
vided into such a network that they present a
veil of disbelief and superstition. Who, may I
ask, divided them—did God or man? Who is
responsible for the great vortex of sin and in­
harmony this division has caused? Will you pause
for a moment and think deeply, then ask your­
selves, is it God or man that is responsible? Then
think, does God sit somewhere in the sky looking
down on this great web, altering a condition here
or a condition there, interfering here or smooth­
ing out a life there, praising one or condemning
another, holding up the hands of one while he
tramples the other? No, if there be a true giver
of life, he must be Omnipotent, Omnipresent,
Omniscient, far above, around, and in all, pour­
ing out his life to all, through all and above
all, else he is not a true giver of all life. Thus you
may differentiate this into the innumerable varie­
ties of form, but when you reach the beginning,
you will find that you reach the final and the
two become a cycle with no beginning and no
ending. Were this not so there could be no base,
no hypothesis, no truth.”
Here some one asked, “Do you attempt to over­
come death?” The answer was, “O, no, we come
up over death by letting life express to its abso­
lute fullness. Thus we do not know even what
death is. To us there is nothing but more abun­
dant life. The great error of the majority is, they
attempt to hide their religion behind some veil or
secret instead of throwing it open to the broad
expanse of God’s pure sunlight.”
Here some one of the party asked if Jesus abode
[100]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
with them, meaning with his people. He replied,
“No, Jesus -does not live with us. He is only drawn
to us by the thoughts we have in common, the
same as he is drawn to all by the thoughts they
have in common. Jesus abides only to be of serv­
ice, as all great souls do.”
He went on to say “It was while sojourning in
Northern Arabia that Jesus had access to the
library that had been collected from India, Persia
and the Trans-Himalayan region. Here Jesus first
contacted the secret teachings of the Brotherhood.
These teachings only served to drive home more
firmly the conviction already forming, that the
true mystery of life was God expressed through
the Christ in the individual. He saw that in order
to express this fully, he must withdraw from all
forms of worship, and worship God expressing
through the individual, and God alone. He saw
that in order to demonstrate this fully he would
be obliged to withdraw from those that had taught
him, even though by withdrawing he should incur
their displeasure. This did not deter him for a
moment, for so steadfast was he in his devotion
to his cause and the great service he saw he could
render to the world by that devotion.
“He saw that if man ever arose to the lofty
power of that mighty Indwelling Presence; if a
mighty Son of God, one in whom the Divine Wis­
dom abode in fullest measure; one rich in the
outpouring richness of all of God’s treasures, the
fountain of the outpouring waters of life, the Lord,
or law of compassion and wisdom, was actually
to take flesh upon earth, he must come forth and
claim these possessions: then with pure motive
he must live the life and he would bring forth that
life, to which manifest Presence the name of the
Christ has been given.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[101]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
“He stood forth and boldly proclaimed that the
Christ that abode in him, abode in all; that the
celestial voice that proclaimed him the Beloved
Son proclaimed all sons of God, joint heirs and
brothers all. This epoch is marked at his baptism
when the Spirit was seen descending from heaven
like a dove upon him, and it abode with him. He
also said all are God’s, manifest in the flesh.
“He boldly taught that ignorance is the cause of
all sin. He saw that in order to practice forgive­
ness, or the science of forgiving, that man must
be enlightened to the fact that man has the power
to forgive all sin, discord and inharmony; that it
is not God that forgives sin, for God has noth­
ing to do with the sin, sickness and inharmony of
man; that man, himself, had brought these into
being and that man is the only one that can erase
or forgive them; that man must learn that igno­
rance is disregard and lack of understanding of
Divine Mind as the Creative Principle, and his
relation to that Principle. He saw that man may
have all intellectual knowledge and he versed in
worldly affairs, yet if he does not recognize the
Christ as the living, vitalizing essence of God
within him, he is grossly ignorant of the most
important factor governing his life. He quickly
S(aw the inconsistency of asking a perfectly just
and loving Father to heal a disease or sin. He
taught that disease is the effect of sin and that
forgiveness is an important factor in healing; that
sickness is not punishment sent from God as many
believe it to be, but is the result of man’s mis­
understanding of his real being. He taught that
it is the Truth which sets free. The purity of his
teachings has caused them to outlive those of his
teachers.
[102]
“When Peter said that he forgave seven times,
Jesus’ answer was that he forgave seventy times
seven, then went on forgiving until it was univer­
sal. In order to forgive hate he centered his atten­
tion on love. This was not only when it touched
his life, hut when he saw it manifest in the world
about him. This Truth was the inherent light that
he saw in all, which would lead them out of dark­
ness when applied in understanding. He knew
that every overcomer was covenanted with his
Lord to be continually forgiving sin, in meeting
every error with Truth, and this was his way of
being about his Father’s business. He saw and
understood that in no other way could the earth be
transformed and peace and harmony prevail
among men and he said, ‘If you forgive men their
trespasses, your heavenly Father will also for­
give you.’
“In order to appreciate the full value of this
statement, you may ask ‘What is the Father?’ The
Father is Life, Love, Power and Dominion, and
all of these belong to the child by rightful inheri­
tance. This is what Paul meant when he said we
are joint heirs with Christ to the God Kingdom.
This does not mean that one has more than an­
other. This does not mean that the eldest son gets
the larger portion and the other half is divided
by measure to the remaining children. To be a
joint heir with Christ to the Kingdom means to be
an equal participant in all the blessings of the
God Kingdom.
“Sometimes others accuse us of making our­
selves equal with Jesus. That is because they do
not understand what is meant by joint heirship.
I am quite certain there is not one among us that
would say he was on the same plane of enlighten-
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[103]
ment as the great Master, with his great white
purity. This joint heirship means to have the
same power, the same strength, the same degree
of understanding. And yet there is not one among
us that does not realize the full truth of the prom­
ise of Jesus to all of God’s children, to every true
disciple, that they may be a full participant in all
the qualities of the Godhead as fully as he is. We
fully recognize his meaning when he said, ‘Be you
perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect.’
We know full well that great soul never for a
moment asked of his disciples a mental or moral
impossibility. When he saw and asked perfection
of man he knew that he asked only that which
man can live up to. A great many have taken
false comfort in the belief that they never can he
as perfect as the Master is perfect. They argue
that he was Divine and because of his divinity
he did marvelous works which no other member
of humanity could possibly do, and so it is abso­
lutely useless to try. They say they are here with
nothing better or more skillful or scientific with
which to carve out life’s destiny than mere human
will power. The great Master made it clear that,
while at first it did take some human will power
to start, the mere human will is not a great factor
in the case, the great factor being divine under­
standing. How many times did he say, ‘You shall
know the Truth and the Truth shall make you
free.’
“Let us reduce this to the simple physics of the
world about us. The moment men become fully
acquainted with the truth of anything in the phy­
sical world about them, that moment they become
free of their ignorant concept of that particular
thing. The moment men became acquainted with
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[104]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
the fact that the world was round and that it
revolved around the sun, they became free from
the antiquated idea of a flat earth and the rising
and setting sun. The moment men become free
from the belief that they are mere humans, sub­
ject to human laws of life and death and the
limitations which humans have imposed, that
moment they will see that they are free from all
human limitations and may became Sons of God
if they will. The moment they realize they are
Divine, they are free from all limitations and
possessed of the strength of divinity, and man
knows that this divinity is the place where being
comes most directly in contact with God. Man
is beginning to see and know that this divinity
is not something to be injected into each from
without. He is beginning to know that it is the
very life of each and every man.
“We know that the ideals we see in the lives of
others take root in our lives, and in compliance
with the Divine Law bring forth after their kind.
As long as we believe in the power of sin and see
the effect of sin as a reality, the punishment of
that sin will be vital in our own lives. But as we
give to ourselves and others true righteous
thoughts for all inharmonious ones, we are making
ready the harvest of a great spiritual feast which
is certain to follow the seedtime. Thus forgive­
ness has a two-fold mission. It frees both the
erring and the loving one, for back of the appli­
cation of forgiveness is a deep and radiant love,
a love founded on principle; a love that desires
to give for the joy of giving with no thought of
reward, save that of the Father’s approval in the
words, ‘This is My beloved Son in whom I am
well pleased.’
[105]
“These words are just as true for us as they are
true of Jesus. Your sins, sickness or discord are
no more a part of God, or your true self, than
fungi are a part of the plants to which they attach
themselves. They are the false excrescences which
have gathered upon your bodies as the result of
wrong thinking. The thought of the disease, and
the disease, are merely the cause and the effect.
Erase, forgive the cause, and the effect disappears.
Erase the false belief and sickness vanishes.
“This was the only method of cure that Jesus
ever resorted to. He erased the false image in the
consciousness of the one to whom he ministered
by first raising the vibrations of his own body by
connecting his own thoughts with those of Divine
Mind, and holding his own thoughts steadfastly in
accord with those of the perfection of the Divine
Mind for man, the vibrations of his body became
equal to the vibrations in Divine Mind. Having
thus raised the vibrations of his own body by his
steadfast thought of the Divine Perfection, he was
able to raise the vibrations of the body of the
applicant with the withered arm to the point
where he could erase the image of the withered
arm from his own consciousness. Then Jesus
could say to him, ‘Stretch forth your hand.’ He
stretched it forth and it became whole. Thus he
raised the vibrations of his own body by seeing
the Divine Perfection for all and this enabled him
to raise the vibrations of the one he healed until
the image of imperfection was entirely erased, the
healing was instantaneous and the forgiveness was
complete.
“You will soon find that by fixing your thoughts
and attention steadfastly on God and His divine
perfection, you can raise the vibrations of your
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[106]
body to where they will blend so harmoniously
with those of the divine perfection, that you are
absolutely one with the divine perfection and
thus one with God. You are then able to so in­
fluence the vibrations of the bodies of others with
whom you come in contact that they see the per­
fection that you see. Thus you may fulfill the
divine mission and your part is complete. Or you
may see imperfection and thus lower the vibra­
tions until imperfection is the result, but you can
not escape reaping the harvest of the seed you
have sown.
“God works through all to carry out His perfect
plans, and the healing, loving thoughts continually
going forth from the hearts of all is God’s own
message to His children. It is these thoughts that
keep the vibrations of our bodies in direct touch
with the divine and perfect vibrations, and this
seed is the Word of God that finds lodgment in
every receptive heart, whether man be consciously
aware of his divine nature or not. We are ap­
proaching more fully to our divine inheritance
when we can keep our thoughts so fully upon our
divine perfection and the divine perfection of all,
as held in the Mind of God, that the vibrations of
our body are in direct harmonious accord and one
with the divine vibrations sent out from the Mind
of God. But in order to bring forth the abundant
harvest of spiritual understanding, our thoughts
must continuously vibrate with, and lay hold of,
the perfect harmonious thoughts from Divine
Mind, or Mind of God, to man, His beloved son.
We soon find we have the power to enslave or to
free ourselves, to forgive every sin of the whole
human family through our attitude of thought,
word or deed and the vibrations thus released.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[107]
Once having chosen to shape our thoughts along
definite lines, we soon find that we are sustained
by Omnipotence itself, and we find as we go
through the discipline necessary to assure our­
selves of mastery, that it is a glorious privilege—
this power which we have to free ourselves and
our fellow men from bondage through the process
of divine thinking.
“All of Jesus’ healings were on the basis of re­
moving the mental cause. So we find that it is
necessary to reduce the idealism of Jesus to prac­
tical demonstration, and by so doing we find we
are only doing that which he enjoined us to do.
Many sins vanish at the first few rays of light shed
into the dark concept, while others more firmly
rooted in consciousness require patience and perse­
verance to overcome. The forgiving love of Christ
must prevail if we do not obstruct but give it full
sway. True forgiveness purifies and blesses all
and begins in the heart of the individual. This
is at first a thought reformation. Realizing that
God is the only Mind, and this Mind is pure and
holy, will do much to keep one immersed in the
currents of pure thoughts. Then holding stead­
fastly to the Truth that the Mind of Christ is hav­
ing its perfect way in you, establishes you in these
harmonious constructive thought currents. In
that you are always in the ever-flowing stream of
the loving thoughts which God is pouring out to
His children.
“You will soon see that you are fast approaching
a period where you are living in a world of
thinkers. You will know that thought is the most
potent agency in the universe. You will soon
recognize that thought is the mediator between
Divine Mind and every bodily ailment or discord
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[108]
in the whole world. If you practice looking im­
mediately to the Divine Mind, the Kingdom
within, when discord or inharmony arises, you
are immediately united with Divine Ideas and you
will find that Divine Love is ever ready to give its
healing balm of pure love to those who seek.
Jesus lives today to wipe out of human conscious­
ness the power and reality of sin and its effects.
Fresh from the heart of Love, he came understand­
ing the relation between God and man, and in his
fearless, free recognition of Spirit as the only
power, he proclaimed the supremacy of Divine
Law which, when understood and applied to
every act of living, will transform suffering men
into radiant beings and usher in the only real
kingdom of perfect citizenship, the Kingdom of
Heaven upon earth.” Here Jast ceased talking.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[109]
CHAPTER XI
T
HE sun had disappeared below the horizon
and the beautiful afterglow, that foretold a
peaceful night, was flaming across the entire
expanse of sky. It was the first evening free from
wind or storm that we had experienced in ten days,
and all were quietly drinking in the magnificent
display of color. A quiet sunset on the Gobi can
enrapture one into a revery of forgetfulness of all
things. The colors do not glow and shine, they
seem to dart here and there in great beams of
pure color, as though invisible hands were oper­
ating great colored searchlights. At times it
seemed as if these invisible hands were attempting
to show the full range of the spectrum and the
many variations of color to be obtained in the
combinations. A wide band of white light would
appear, then branching off at an oblique angle
would appear a wide band of violet. From
this violet a wide hand of indigo would shoot out,
and along the side of the indigo a wide band of
blue would appear, and so on until the whole
atmosphere seemed charged with bands of color.
Then they would combine and blend again to the
wide band of white which seemed quite station­
ary. Again they flashed out in fan formation, with
beams of every color shooting in all directions.
This gradually subsided into a solid golden color
which caused the undulating sands to appear like
a sea of heaving molten gold. After experiencing
such a sunset one does not wonder that the Gobi
is called a land of molten gold. This display con­
tinued for about ten minutes, then it faded into a
haze of mottled blue, yellow, green and grey,
which seemed to drop from the heavens like a
robe of night, and darkness was upon us. So
[110]
quickly did the darkness come that a number of
the party questioned in startled surprise if it were
possible that it was dark already.
The leader of the expedition turned to Bagget
Irand and asked if he would give us his version
of the people that had inhabited the region and
established the cities like the one that lay in ruins
below where we were camping. He began by
saying “We have written records that have been
carefully kept from generation to generation for
over seventy thousand years, and these records
place the date of the founding of the city, the ruins
of which lie below this camp, more than two
hundred thirty thousand years in the past. The
first settlers came from the west as colonists many
years prior to the founding of this city. These
colonists settled in the south and southwest and
as the colonies gradually developed, some of the
people moved north and west until they inhabited
the whole land. As fertile fields and orchards
were established they laid the foundations for
cities. At first these were not large, but as years
went by they found it convenient to gather in these
centers for closer fellowship in art and science.
Here they built temples; not as places of worship,
for they worshipped every moment by the life they
lived. Living was always dedicated to the Great
Cause of life, and while they lived co-operating
with the Great Cause that life never failed them.
During this time it was quite common to find men
and women thousands of years old. In fact they
did not know death. They passed from one ac­
complishment to a higher attainment of life and
its reality. They accepted life’s true source, and
it released its boundless treasures to them in an
unending stream of abundance. But I have di­
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[111]
gressed; let us go back to the temples. These were
places where written records of any attainment
in knowledge of the arts, science and history could
he preserved for those that wished to avail them­
selves of them. The temples were not used as
places of worship, but as places where the most
profound scientific themes were discussed. The
act and thought of worship in those days were
carried out in the everyday life of the individual
instead of being set aside for a particular people
or at specified times.
They found it more convenient to have broad
smooth thoroughfares as means of communication,
so they developed what you call paving. They
found it convenient to build comfortable homes
and they developed the method of hewing stone,
of making brick and the mortar necessary to hold
them in place, to fashion their homes and the
temples. These things you have already discov­
ered. They found that gold was a most service­
able metal as it did not tarnish. They at first
found means for collecting it from the sands, then
from the rocks, and at last a way to manufacture
it and it became very common. They found the
way to produce other metals as they were needed
and they became very plentiful. Then instead of
these communities living by agriculture alone,
they began to supply those that tilled the soil with
manufactured articles as conveniences for a wider
range of operations. The centers grew and de­
veloped until they became cities of one to two
hundred thousand people.
!Still they had no temporal heads or rulers; all
this was entrusted to advisory bodies that were
selected by the people themselves. Delegations
were sent to and received from other communi­
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[112]
ties. Yet they promulgated no laws or rules for
the conduct of the individual, as each realized his
own identity and lived by a universal law govern­
ing that identity. There was no need for man­
made laws; there was need only for wise counsel.
Then an individual here and an individual there
began to wander away. At first they were the
more dominating souls and they would push on,
while those that were inclined to plod would hold
back, and unconsciously there came a separation
as the love faculty had not been fully developed
by all. The separation grew wider and wider
until a very dominating personality set himself
up as king and temporal ruler. As he ruled wisely,
the people, with the exception of a few who felt
that they could see the future of this separation,
acceded to his rule without taking a thought of
the future. These few withdrew into communi­
ties of their own and from that time on they lived
a more or less secluded life, always attempting to
show their fellows the folly of separation. They
became the first order of the priesthood; the king
established the first order of temporal rulers, and
from then on their devious ways may only be fol­
lowed by deep study and research. There are a
few that have preserved the simple teachings and
have lived to follow them. But in the main, life
has become very complex to the majority, in fact
so complex has it become that they refuse to
believe that life is a simple form of living a well
balanced life co-operating directly with the Creator
of all life. They fail to see that their life is the
complex and hard way and that the simple life co­
operating with the Creative Cause of all life is the
more abundant life. In this way they must go
on until they know a better way.”
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[113]
Here the speaker paused, stood silent for a
moment and a picture flashed before our vision.
The picture was stationary at first, as has already
been described, then it became animated, the
forms began to move, and the scenes changed
momentarily, or at his direction as he explained
each scene. He seemed to be able to hold or
reproduce the scene at will as questions were asked
and answered and explanations given. They were
scenes that were supposed to have been enacted
in the ruined city below where we were camped.
The scenes did not contrast to any marked degree
with scenes of a populous Oriental city of today,
save that the streets were broad and well kept.
The people were well clothed in raiment of good
quality, their faces were bright and cheery and
there were no soldiers, paupers or beggars in
evidence. The architecture attracted our attention
as the buildings were well and substantially built,
and of very pleasing appearance. Although there
seemed to be no attempt at display one temple
stood out magnificently beautiful. We were told
this temple was built by volunteer hands wholly,
and was one of the oldest and most beautiful in
the whole land. On the whole if these pictures
were representative, the people must have been
contented and happy. We were told that soldiers
and poverty did not make their appearance until
after the second king of the first dynasty had
reigned for nearly two hundred years. That king
in order to keep up his retinue began taxing the
people, and soldiers were appointed to collect the
taxes. In about fifty years poverty began to show
in isolated places. It seems that about this time
a portion of the people that were dissatisfied with
the kingdom and those that had assumed the rule,
[H4]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
withdrew. Bagget Irand and his people claim the
lineal heritage of this race.
As the night was well advanced Bagget sug­
gested that we adjourn and retire as it was much
pleasanter to make an early morning start, for
about three hours of the full noonday heat was
still uncomfortable for travel and the time of
winter storms was fast approaching.
After a suggestion for closer co-operation for
the planning and more careful execution of the
excavation work that we were intending to carry
out, we fully determined that this excavation
work should be carried forward as rapidly as pos­
sible. It was arranged that this part of the work
should be turned over to the leader of the expe­
dition and the translation of the records should be
carried on by our Chief and three assistants, and
I was assigned to the Chief’s party. I might state
here that owing to the leader’s passing on the fol­
lowing season the work was never carried out.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[115]
CHAPTER XII
W
E WERE up early the next morning and at
break of day were on our way to Ragget
Irand’s home village, which we reached the
evening of the twelfth day. We were welcomed by
the party that had visited us the last afternoon of
our stay on the desert, and invited to stop for a
few days’ rest which we gladly accepted. We were
shown to quarters that were a real luxury after
what we had experienced on the desert. We were
told that supper would be ready within a half
hour. After we had made ourselves presentable,
we stepped into the next room and found a number
of friends we had made while traveling farther
south. They all greeted us heartily and we were
told the whole village was ours and that every door
was flung wide to receive us. The Governor of the
village, through an interpreter, made us a very
nice speech of welcome, telling us we were to dine
at his house and were to start immediately. We
filed out of the room, led by the Governor with a
guard of two soldiers, one on each side, a custom
of the country. Next came the leader with our
hostess and our Chief with the beautiful lady.
Then came Emil and his mother, and I walked
with them, with the rest of the party following.
We had proceeded but a short distance when a
poorly dressed child stepped from the crowd that
had assembled and asked in the native tongue if
she might speak to Emil’s mother. The Governor
brushed her unceremoniously aside saying that
we could not be bothered with such as she was.
Emil’s mother grasped our arms and the three of
us stepped out of the ranks to hear what the girl
had to say. As we did this our hostess hesitated
[116]
and said she would like to stop, and as she stepped
out of the ranks the whole company stopped.
Emil’s mother spoke to the Governor, saying she
would like to have them go on and get seating
arrangements completed and by that time we
surely would be there. During this time she was
holding the girl’s hands in hers. As the company
moved on she knelt down in order to bring her
face closer to the girl’s and putting her arms
around her said, “Dear one, what can I do for
you?” She soon found that the girl’s brother
had fallen that afternoon and they thought his
back was broken. The child begged the lady to
go with her to see if she could not help him as he
was in great pain. Emil’s mother arose, explained
the situation to us and told us to go on and she
would go with the child, then come in later. The
leader said if it was permissible he would like to
go along. Emil’s mother said she would like to have
us all go if we wished, so we turned aside and
followed Emil’s mother and the girl as they walked
hand-in-hand, the girl fairly leaping with joy. Our
hostess told us she was saying she knew her
brother would be healed by the great lady. As
we neared the house, the girl bounded ahead to
tell them we were coming. When we came up to
the house, we saw it was but a mud hut of the
lowest order. Emil’s mother must have in­
terpreted our thoughts for she said, “Although it
is a hovel, warm hearts beat within.” At that
moment the door was thrown open, a gruff mascu­
line voice spoke and we stepped inside. If the
hut looked wretched from without it was doubly
so from within. It was scarcely large enough for
us to crowd within and the ceiling was so low that
we could not stand erect. A dim witch light
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[117]
burned and cast a weird light upon the hard faces
of the father and mother as they sat amidst their
squalor. In the far corner on a mass of musty
straw and vile-smelling rags lay a lad not more
than five years old, his face drawn and ashen
pale. The girl knelt beside him holding his face
in both of her hands, one pressed against each
cheek. She was telling him that he was going to,
be perfectly well again as the beautiful lady was
already there. She removed her hands and moved
aside to give him a clearer view and for the first
time seemed to see the rest of the party. In­
stantly her expression changed and a great fear
seemed to pervade her whole form. She dropped
her face in her folded arms and her form shook
with a convulsive sob as she cried out, “0, I
thought you were coming alone.” Emil’s mother
dropped on her knees beside her, put both arms
around her and held her close for a moment. She
became silent and Emil’s mother said she would
send us away, if she wished to have us go. The
girl said she was only surprised and frightened,
that we need not mind her as it was her brother she
was thinking of. Then Emil’s mother said, “You
love your brother dearly, do you not?” The girl
who could not have been more than nine years
old said, “Yes, but I love everyone.” The conver­
sation was interpreted by Emil as none of our
party spoke the language. Emil’s mother said,
“If you love your brother so much, you can help
to heal him,” and she told her to take the position
she had been in and to place her hands each side
of his face. Then Emil’s mother moved so she
could place her hand on his forehead. Almost
instantly the moans ceased, the boy’s face lighted
up, his little form relaxed, a perfect calm settled
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[118]
over the whole scene and the child slept quietly
and naturally. Emil’s mother and the girl sat as
they were for a few moments, then with her
left hand she gently removed the girl’s hands
from the boy’s face, saying, “How beautiful he is,
strong and fine.” Then Emil’s mother removed her
hand ever so gently, and as I happened to be
standing near her, as she extended her left hand
I reached out my hand in order to assist her to
her feet. As her hand touched mine such a thrill
went through my whole body that it left me per­
fectly helpless. She sprang lightly to her feet and
said, “For a moment I forgot myself. I should not
have taken your hand as I did, for momentarily I
seemed to be overwhelmed, so great was the power
that was flowing through me.” I recovered my
composure almost instantly and I think the others
did not notice as they were all deeply engrossed
in what was going on around them.
The girl had suddenly thrown herself at Emil’s
mother’s feet and clasping each in one of her
hands was frantically kissing the coverings. Emil’s
mother reached down and with one hand turned
the fervent tear-stained face upward, then knelt
and clasped the child to her and kissed her eyes
and lips. The child put both arms around the
mother’s neck and both were motionless for a
moment, then that strange light began to pervade
the room and it grew brighter and brighter until
every object seemed to be suffused with the light
and nothing cast a shadow. The room seemed
to be expanding. The father and the mother of
the two children had sat on the dirt floor in stony-
faced silence thus far. They arose, and the ex­
pression on their faces changed to blank dismay,
then to fright and the man bolted from the door,
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[1191
nearly upsetting the leader of the expedition in
his haste to get away. The mother of the house­
hold threw herself prostrate at the side of Emil’s
mother and sobs shook her frame. Emil’s mother
placed her hand on the woman’s forehead, speak­
ing in a low voice to her. Presently the sobs
ceased, she drew herself to a half sitting, half
kneeling position and saw the transformation that
had taken place in the room. The expression on
her face changed to one of terror, she rose hastily
to her feet and started to run from the room. Emil
reached out his hand, and took one of her hands
while the beautiful lady took the other. They held
her hands thus for a moment and the frightened
expression changed to a smile. We looked around
and in place of the hovel we had entered, we were
in a moderately comfortably furnished room with
seats, table and a clean bed. Emil walked over
and picked up the boy, still sound asleep, from
the heap of musty straw and rags, placed him
tenderly on the clean bed and drew the covers
over him. As he did so he stooped and kissed the
child’s forehead as tenderly as any woman could
have. His mother and the girl arose and walked
to where the mother of the household stood, and
we all gathered around them. The mother sank
to her knees and grasping the feet of Emil’s
mother, began kissing them and entreating her
not to leave. Emil stepped forward and stooping
down took the woman’s hands and drew her to
her feet, all of the time speaking quietly to her
in her own language. As she stood erect, the old
soiled garments she had been wearing were
changed to new ones. She stood in mystified si­
lence for a moment, then threw herself into
the outstretched arms of Emil’s mother. They
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[120]
stood in this attitude for a moment, when Emil
reached out his hands and placing them upon
their arms separated them. Then the girl rushed
forward with outstretched hands crying, “See, see,
my things are new.” She turned to Emil’s mother
who stooped and picked her up while the child
put her arms around her neck with her face
close to her shoulder. The leader of the expedi­
tion was standing just back of Emil’s mother and
the child reached out her hands over the mother’s
shoulder toward him, lifted her face and gave him
a happy smile. The leader stepped forward, held
out his hands and the child clasped them saying
that she loved us all but not as much as she did
this dear lady, meaning Emil’s mother. Emil said
he would go and see if he could find the father.
He returned with him in a few moments frightened
and half sullen. Emil’s mother walked over and
placed the girl on the floor beside him. We could
see that underneath the sullenness there was a
deep appreciation. We prepared to leave and as
we left, the mother of the household asked if we
would not come again and was told that we would
see her again the next day.
We hurried away to the Governor’s house, fear­
ful lest we had kept the party waiting. Although
the time seemed hours, we could not have been
more than thirty minutes. I am certain it all
happened in much less time than it has taken me
to write about it. We arrived at the house just
as the rest of the party were taking their seats at
the table. The leader of the expedition asked if
he might sit by our Chief and it was so arranged.
It was easily seen that he was very much agitated
and the Chief said afterwards that the man was
so moved by what he had seen that he could
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[121]
scarcely keep him quiet. The seating arrange­
ments were: the Governor at the head of the table,
at his right Emil’s mother, then Emil, the beauti­
ful lady, our Chief and the leader of the expedi­
tion. On the Governor’s left sat our hostess, then
Emil’s son and his sister. I mention these ar­
rangements because of what happened later.
After we were all seated, the servants began
serving and the meal progressed very nicely until
it was about half concluded. The Governor
addressed Bagget Irand, asking him if he would
not continue the talk he had started a short time
before which had been interrupted by the arrival
of a governor from a larger village. Bagget Irand
arose and said they had been talking of the sim­
ilarity of the lives of Buddha and Jesus. With our
permission he would continue the talk, but it
would be necessary to speak in a language that the
host understood, as it was not customary to have
an interpreter unless the speaker did not speak the
language of the people. Jast volunteered to act
as interpreter but when the Governor understood
the situation he insisted that Bagget Irand should
speak in English and Jast would interpret to him
as the greater majority spoke and understood
English.
Then Bagget Irand went on to say: “We can
compare in our own thoughts what the power of
man would be if all the attributes of true Spirit
dominated his every action, deed and thought, or
as Jesus said, When the Holy Spirit has come
upon you.’ In this he referred to the time when
the God Power should fully determine the lives
of all his children. This means God manifest in
the flesh. In reality do we not see this spiritual
unfoldment for all people coming through the
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[122]
lives and teachings of the seers and prophets in a
greater or less degree in proportion as their spiri­
tual unfoldment approaches the perfect develop­
ment of God manifesting through all his children?
“It is quite evident that those that have followed
steadfastly the true ideals of life which they have
perceived as coming directly from God, and thus
connecting God with man, have made the greatest
attainments toward nobility of character, purity
of soul and moral grandeur of life. Should those
that seek to follow them by incorporating their
ideals in individuality be able to accomplish as
they have accomplished, the world must finally
accept that the lessons they gave out and their
lives presage the undeveloped possibilities of all
God’s children.
“Still none of these have claimed that they have
reached the ultimate perfection which God has
chosen for His children, for Jesus said, ‘He that
believes in me, the works that I do shall he do
also, yet I go unto the Father.’ Both Jesus and
Buddha said, ‘You shall be perfect even as your
Father in heaven is perfect.’
“These sons of God are not mythical persons, for
their lives and work have spoken so definitely in
the lives and hearts of men all down through the
historical ages. There have been myth and tra­
dition woven about their lives. The effective test
is for the one who is interested in their lives and
characters to personally accept and apply their
teaching in his everyday life. The fact that the
ideals expressed by these great men are those held
as the ideals that govern all truly great people is
a further proof of their truth. If one attempts to
refute the lives of these great men, one may as
well ask why the great religions exist. It is most
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
ri23i
certain that they are the foundation, and do bear
the footprints of an irresistible instinctive urge, or
instinct, which has presaged the great depth and
true basis of the betterment of mankind, and they
outlive and outshine any other possible attempt to
relieve the human family from limitation and
bondage.
“The records of these men’s lives are preserved
to us and their lives become a legitimate source
of inquiry and research if we will but open our
hearts and pursue this inquiry with an open mind,
and make their lives, teaching and ideals our very
own. In no other way can we enter in and be­
come one with their lives. This has been the in­
spired message of every true seer since the world’s
history began. Two, at least, of these spiritually
enlightened men, Jesus and Buddha, brought to
fruition the great possibilities they taught. Almost
in the same words you have them saying, ‘I am
the way, the truth and the light of life for all men’
and in the divinity of the attitude they assumed
they could truly say, ‘I am the light of the world.
He that follows me, walks and lives as I have
lived, shall not walk in darkness but shall have
Eternal Life and shall be abundantly free from all
limitations.’ They both, in nearly the same words,
said, ‘To this end was I born and for this came I
into the world, that I should bear witness unto
the Truth. Every one that is of this Truth, hears
my voice.’ These words must have had a direct
bearing upon the true unfoldment of the Christ
life in every child of God.
“Do not all the religions of the world reveal a
higher power in man that is struggling to be free
from the limitations of sense? The scriptures of
the different races are outward expressions of this
minor intelligence. The Book of Job in your Bible
[124]
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
antedates all your history. It was written in this
country and its mystical meaning has been pre­
served through all the changes that have taken
place, although it has been nearly smothered by
the addition of folk lore. Though the people were
nearly all consumed, the mystical word of Job
will never be consumed, for he that dwells in the
secret place of the Most High dwells in the shadow
of the Almighty and has the understanding of the
Almighty One. Another thing we must see is that
all scriptures came from religion and not religion
from the scriptures. The scriptures are a product
of religion, not the cause of it. The history of
religion came out of the facts of religion. The
devotional came out of experiences, while the
gospels came out of all religions.
“You will soon find that unity of purpose and
effort will he the most potent means to attain any
desired end. Instead of numerous people think­
ing in all directions, and pulling in as many, they
will think as one. Then man will know what it
means to give a long pull and a strong pull and a
pull all together. Then you will see that when the
unity of will is set in motion all things are possi­
ble. When man casts the selfish Satanic thoughts
from his consciousness, the battle of Gog and
Magog will cease and this will not be accom­
plished by any outside deity.
“When Jesus said, ‘My words are spirit and they
are life,’ he touched that inner word that created
all things and he knew that his word was filled
with a life essence and the moving power that
would produce the thing he desired. If these
words would ring through the souls of all men and
nations, they would know they had access to the
fountain of Eternal Life which flows from God.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[125]
“Some may express the Christ by seeing the
Christ enthroned just back of the heart, the seat
of love. From this throne see the Christ directing
every activity of your body in perfect accord with
God’s immutable law and know that you are co­
operating with Christ in the ideals received direct
from the Divine Mind. Then see the Christ seated
on his throne expanding and including every
atom, cell, fibre, muscle, and organ of your whole
body. In fact, he has expanded until your whole
body is the pure Christ, the only begotten Son of
God; the pure temple where God is at home and
loves to dwell. From this throne you can call upon
every center of your whole body. You can say to
those centers, you are positive, loving, powerful,
wise, fearless, free spirit. You are pure with the
purity of Spirit. No mortal thought or desire of
impurity can come near you. You are immersed
in the pure Christ. The Spirit of life in the Christ
makes you the pure temple of God. Here you may
pause and say, ‘Father, in this as well as in all
things, reveal the Christ, Your perfect Son to me.’
Then bless the Christ.
“When you have realized the Christ, you may
hold out your hand, and if it is gold you want,
the gold will be there.” Here he held out his
hands and there was a circular disc of gold some­
what larger than an English sovereign in each
hand. He passed them to those sitting at his right
and left and they in turn passed them on until
they made the rounds of the whole table. (We
preserved them and had them examined by ex­
perts and they pronounced them pure gold.)
“If you wish to assist others, see the Christ
enthroned in them as he is in you and speak to
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[126]
the Christ in them as though you were talking
directly to them.
“If you want to get a clearer view of any sub­
ject than you have at pi-esent, let the Christ speak
mentally to the abstract soul of that subject or
thing. Then ask the intelligence within the thing
to tell you about itself.
“God’s children are just as necessary to Him
in the carrying out of His perfect plan as any
plant, flower or tree is and it is necessary for them
to co-operate in the perfect way which He sees.
It was the withdrawal of man from this perfect
plan of co-operation that threw the world out of
balance and caused the great waves to sweep over
and destroy the greater portion of His children.
It is the perfect thought of Love co-operating with
Poise and Power in the hearts of God’s children
that holds the earth in balance. When they dis­
sipated that force in thoughts of sin and lust it
swung so far out of balance that the great waves
rushed over and nearly annihilated man and the
work he had accomplished. At that time man had
accomplished far more than he has today. But
God can not control man’s thoughts of love and
balance, or hate and unbalance; they are for man
to control. When the thought force that threw the
earth out of balance was dissipated by the great
cataclysm it had brought on, then God in His
mighty power could restore the earth to its proper
equilibrium or balance, but as long as man’s
thought held sway, God was powerless to act.”
Here Bagget Irand ceased speaking and took his
seat.
We had noticed that our host had betrayed
signs of uneasiness and considerable excitement,
and when Bagget Irand took his seat, his excite­
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[127]
ment burst in an exclamation which carried the
meaning of “Dog, dog of a Christian, you have de­
famed the name of our fair Buddha and you shall
suffer!” At this he reached out and pulled a cord
that hung from the ceiling near him. Instantly
three doors flew open at the opposite end of the
room from where he was sitting and in rushed
thirty soldiers with drawn swords. He had risen
from his seat at the table, and the two guards who
had accompanied him and were standing just
back of his chair during the meal, stepped for­
ward to his side. He raised his hand and gave a
command and ten of the soldiers came forward
and arranged themselves along the wall back of
where Bagget was sitting, and two stepped for­
ward and took their stand just back and on each
side of his chair. The commander walked forward
and stood at attention a short distance from where
the Governor and his two guards stood. Not a
word had been spoken by one of the company and
scarcely a move had been made. We sat com­
pletely overcome by the suddenness of the change.
Then a deep silence seemed to fall and a strong
light blazed forth in the room at the head of the
table just in front of where the Governor stood.
Every eye was upon his face as he stood with
upraised hand as though about to give another
order, but his face was ashen pale and a look of
horror had come over it. A dim form seemed to
be standing on the table before him and all heard
the word, “Stop,” pronounced clearly and very
forcefully and the word itself stood out in flaming
letters between the dim form and the Governor.
The Governor seemed to understand, for he stood
as though transfixed and as rigid as a statue. By
this time the dim form had taken definite shape
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[128]
and we recognized it as that of Jesus, as we had
seen him before. But the thing that was amazing
us was that another dim form seemed to stand
beside him, and it was this form that was holding
the attention of the Governor and all the soldiers.
They seemed to recognize and to fear the dim
form that stood by the side of Jesus far more than
they had Jesus. As we looked around they were
all standing perfectly rigid and as the second form
grew more distinct it raised its right hand as
Jesus had done, and at this every sword fell from
the soldiers’ hands, clattering to the floor. The
room re-echoed with the sound, so deep was the
stillness, and the light seemed to glow with a far
greater intensity. Indeed, so intense did the light
become that we could scarcely see. The com­
mander was the first to recover and he stretched
forth his hands, exclaiming, “Buddha, our Buddha,
the Sublime One.” Then the Governor exclaimed,
“It is indeed the Sublime One,” and threw himself
prostrate on the floor. The two guards stepped
forward and assisted him to his feet, then stood
silent and immovable as statues. A shout went
up from the soldiers, who had arranged them­
selves at the far end of the room. They rushed
pell-mell along each side of the table and crowded
together at the head, shouting, “The Sublime One
has come to destroy the dogs of Christians and
their leader.” At this Buddha stepped back upon
the table until he could look them all in the face
and raised his hand with the words, “It is not
once that I say, Stop! not twice that I say, Stop!
but three times that I say, Stop!” Each time when
he pronounced the word it appeared in flaming
letters as it had when Jesus had pronounced it,
and the words did not disappear, they remained.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[129]
The crowd of soldiers again stood and stared as
though transfixed, some with their hands in the
air, some with one foot from the floor, in the at­
titude just as they happened to be at the instant
Buddha raised his hand. In this attitude he again
walked to where Jesus stood and, placing his left
hand under Jesus’ raised arm, he said, “In this as
in all things I support the upraised hand of my
dear brother here.” Then he placed his right hand
upon Jesus’ shoulder and they stood in this at­
titude for a moment, then both stepped lightly
from the table, while Governor, commander,
guards and soldiers fell back staring at them with
blank, ashen faces. The Governor sank into his
chair that had been moved back until it was
against the wall of the room, and every one of the
company gave vent to a sigh of relief. I think
scarcely one of us had drawn a full breath during
the few minutes it took to enact this scene.
Then Buddha locked his arm in that of Jesus
and the two walked directly in front of the Gov­
ernor. In words that seemed to rebound from the
walls of the room, they were thrown from him
with such force, Buddha said, “Dare you for one
moment call these, our dear brothers, Christian
dogs. You, who but a short time hence, ruthlessly
cast aside a little child that was pleading for help
for a loved one, and this dear, great soul here
turned aside and heeded the call.” Here he
dropped Jesus’ arm, turned and with hand ex­
tended toward Emil’s mother, stepped toward her.
As he continued, he turned half way around so
that he could look from the Governor to Emil’s
mother. It was plainly seen that he was deeply
stirred. He fairly flung the words from him as,
looking at the Governor, he continued, “You, who
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[130]
should have been the first to respond to the call
of that dear child, shirked your duty and then you
call the one that did respond, a Christian dog. Go,
and see the restored child, whose body but a
moment before was torn and writhing in anguish.
See the comfortable home that has been reared
from the hovel that your acts are partially re­
sponsible for thrusting these dear ones in. See the
miserable heap of filth and rags that this dear
soul,” turning to Emil, “raised that child’s body
from. See how tenderly he raised him and placed
him in a clean, neat couch. Then see how, after
he had raised the little body, the filth and rags
disappeared. And you, you, licentious bigot that
you are, were sitting at ease in the purple that is
to be worn only by those that are pure. You dare
to call these that have in no way harmed you or
another, Christian dogs, and you call yourself the
follower of Buddha, the High Priest of the temple
here. Shame! Shame! Shame!”
It seemed that every word would hit the Gov­
ernor, the chair, and the draperies about him and
rebound. At any rate, they were sent with such-
force that the Governor trembled and the drap­
eries fluttered as though they were blown by a
strong wind. There was no question of an inter­
preter, the Governor did not need one, he under­
stood perfectly, although the words were spoken
in the purest English.
Buddha turned and walked to where the two
men that had received the gold pieces were seated
and asked if he might have them. They handed
them to him and with the discs in his open hand,
he walked back to his place before the Governor
and addressed himself again directly to him, say­
ing, “Put forth your hands.” The Governor did
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[131]
so, but they were trembling so, he could scarcely
hold them out. Buddha dropped a disc in each
hand and almost instantly it disappeared. Buddha
said, “See, even pure gold will fly from your
hands,” and the two discs landed almost simul­
taneously on the table before the two men that
had first received them.
Buddha reached out both hands, placed them
on the Governor’s outstretched hands and in a
mild, calm voice said, “Brother, you need not fear.
I do not judge you, you are only judging your­
self.” He held his hands thus and stood quietly
until the Governor became calm. Then he re­
moved his hands and said, “You are quick to fly
with your swords, to redress what you judge to
be a wrong. But remember when you are judging
and condemning men you are judging and con­
demning yourself.” He returned to Jesus’ side as
he said, “We who know, stand together for the
common good and brotherly love of all man­
kind.” He again linked his arm with Jesus’ and
said, “Well, Brother, I think I took this affair out
of your hands entirely. It is all in your hands
now.” Jesus spoke and said, “You have done
nobly and I can not thank you enough.” They
turned and bowed, then arm in arm walked
through the door and disappeared, and the room
broke into a hubbub of voices. The Governor,
commander, soldiers and guards all crowded
around to shake our hands. Everybody was try­
ing to make themselves understood at the same
time. The Governor spoke to Emil and he raised
his hand for silence. As soon as he could be heard,
he said the Governor would like us to again be
seated at the table. When all had resumed their
seats and quiet had been restored, we saw that
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[132]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
the commander had drawn the soldiers into
formation at each side of the table and back of
the Governor’s chair which had been drawn near
the table. The Governor arose and, with Emil act­
ing as interpreter, said, “I allowed my zeal to get
the better of me, for which I am heartily ashamed
and doubly sorry. I do not think it is necessary
for me to say this after what has happened, for I
believe you can see by my attitude that I have
changed and I wish to ask Brother Bagget to arise
and accept my most humble apology. Now will
the whole company kindly arise.” After they had
risen he said, “I ask you all to kindly accept my
most humble apology and I extend to you all a
most hearty welcome, and if you so desire, I hope
you will stay among us always. If you wish a mili­
tary escort at any time, which I judge you do not,
I shall, and I know the commander here also, will
deem it a high honor to be of service to you. I can
not say more. I bid you all goodnight. Before
you go I wish to say that everything I have is at
your command. I salute you, and the soldiers
salute you also, and they will escort you to your
quarters. Again I bid you goodnight and salaam
to you in the name of the Great Buddha, the
Celestial One.”
The commander, making profuse apologies and
saying that he was certain we were in league with
the Celestial One, with five of his soldiers escorted
us to our quarters. As they left they gave us a
salute, which is executed by forming in a half
circle around the commanding officer and pre­
senting their swords so that their points just
touch the point of the commander’s sword. Then
they turned quickly, swept off their hats and
salaamed very low, touching one knee to the
[133]
ground. This salute is given only on great state
occasions. We accepted the salute as best we
knew how and they departed. We went into the
house, immediately took leave of our friends and
host and prepared to go to our tent. There were
so many of us that the rest house would not ac­
commodate all, so our camp had been set up in
the enclosure at the rear of the house and we were
very comfortable.
As we reached our camp, the leader sat down
on a camp cot and said, “Although I am dead
tired, there is absolutely no use of my going to
bed before I know something more of this thing,
and I am going to serve notice that I intend
to sit here all night unless I am somewhat en­
lightened, for I can tell you this thing went much
farther than skin-deep with me tonight. You fel­
lows sit around and say nothing and appear as
wise as owls.” We told him he knew as much as
we, for we had never before witnessed anything
like what had taken place. Some one suggested
that it had been staged for our special benefit.
The leader fairly jumped at him. “Staged! Why
man, the crowd that could stage anything like
that would be worth a million a week of anyone’s
money. And the Governor, if he were acting, you
can choke me, for that old fellow was thoroughly
frightened. I am going to admit that I, for a
few moments, was just about as frightened as he
was. Away back somewhere there is a dim sugges­
tion that that old fellow had a red-hot reception
staged for all of us. That outburst was not just
for Bagget Irand. When those soldiers came rush­
ing forward, there was too much of a triumphant
note in their voices. If I am not mistaken they
were all in on a deeper play than we were aware
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[134]
of. That same something suggests that for a mo­
ment they thought Buddha had come to help
them, for when they saw the whole scheme had
gone against them, their very bodies drooped
and when I think of it, I remember that they
dropped their swords. Say, did not Buddha have
some power? Just see how he threw those words
at the old Governor. He seemed much more pow­
erful than Jesus did, but then it was his side that
needed bolstering up, for our side under the cir­
cumstances had all the best of that go. But, say,
didn’t the old Governor get a boost? I’ll bet by
this time he feels like lifting himself over a fence
by his boot straps. When Buddha clasped his
hands, it actually looked to me as though the fel­
low jumped right out of his old self. We are go­
ing to hear a lot more of him before another sun,
if I am not mistaken, and I am going to predict
that it is good, for that old one is a power in this
land. If he got the wonderful uplift that I did
out of it I would not mind being in his boots after
all.” We talked of the things we had seen and
heard and before we realized how the time was
passing, dawn began to break. The leader arose,
stretched his arms about his head, and said, “Who
needs any sleep? I don’t believe I do, after listen­
ing to you talk.” We lay down, fully dressed, for
an hour’s rest before breakfast.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[135]
W
HEN we were summoned to breakfast that
morning, the leader was the first one up.
He hurried through his morning toilet like
an eager school boy. After he had finished he
stood and urged everybody to more haste. We
finally went in to breakfast and found Emil and
Jast. He went over and sat between them and
asked questions throughout the meal. The moment
we finished eating he arose from the table and
wanted to rush off and again see the house that
had grown in fifteen minutes, as he expressed it.
He put his hands on Jast’s shoulders and said that
if he had two like Emil and his mother what fun
he would have going around and growing houses
for poor people. Then he said, “But would I not
make the landlords in New York look sick for I
pay rent to those fellows.” Then Emil said, “Sup­
pose they would not let you grow houses for
them?” “Well,” he said, “I would do it any way
and after I had grown them and they would not
use them, I would pick them up bodily and put
them in and chain them.” All of us laughed heartily
over these things. We had always taken the
leader for a quiet, reserved man. He told us
afterwards that the things he had seen set him
so on his feet, that he could not help asking ques­
tions. He also said this had been by far the most
interesting expedition of his whole life, and he
was familiar with the world’s remote places. He
definitely decided to assist us to organize a second
expedition to carry on the excavation work under
the guidance of our friends, but this was pre­
vented by his sudden passing. We could scarcely
restrain him from going directly to the little house.
We finally compromised by Jast and one of the
CH APTER XIII
[136]
others walking around with him to where he could
see it. They returned from this trip in about thirty
minutes, and he was jubilant. He had seen the
little house and it was real. He said that it brought
back ever so vividly a boyhood vision that he had.
Then he told of seeing himself going around with
fairies, building houses for poor people and mak­
ing them happy.
Emil told us that they were having a meet­
ing that evening somewhat like the one we had
attended at his home village the year before and
invited us all to be there. We accepted this invi­
tation with keen delight.
As our party was so large, it was thought best
not to go in a body to see the little house. It was
arranged that we were to go in groups of five or
six. The personnel of the first group was to be
Emil, the leader, one or two of the ladies and my­
self. We started out and as we passed the house
where Emil’s mother was staying, she and our
hostess joined us. We walked on until we came
in sight of the house, when the little girl came run­
ning to meet us and threw herself in Emil’s
mother’s arms, saying that her brother was strong
and fine. As we reached the house the mother of
the child came out, dropped to her knees in front
of Emil’s mother and began telling how she adored
her. Emil’s mother put out her hands and assisted
her to her feet, telling her that she must not kneel
to her; that what she had done for her she would
do for anyone; that she was not to praise her, but
the Great One, for the blessing she had received.
The little boy opened the door and the mother
motioned us to go in. We followed the ladies in
with our hostess interpreting for us. There was
no questioning, the house was there and contained
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[137]
four rooms and was very comfortable. It was sur­
rounded on three sides by the most miserable
hovels. We were told that the occupants of the
hovels were going to move away, as they thought
the house was of the evil one and might destroy
them if they stayed.
We did hear more from the Governor, for about
eleven that morning he sent the commander and
a detail of soldiers to invite all of us to lunch
with him at two that afternoon. We accepted
and at the appointed hour there was a guard
waiting to escort us to the Governor’s house.
The reader will understand there were no fine
equipages in that country, so we used the only
mode of locomotion we had—walking. When we
arrived at the Governor’s house we found a num­
ber of Llamas, including the High Priest, from
the nearby monastery had preceded us. We
learned that this monastery housed from fifteen to
eighteen hundred Llamas and was of considerable
importance. The Governor was one of the higher
body of priesthood of the monastery. We at first
expected a lively discussion, but soon found that
the luncheon was only for the purpose of getting
acquainted with the members of our party, as
our friends were very well acquainted with the
High Priest, as they had met a great many times
and had worked together. This, it seems, the Gov­
ernor did not know until that morning, as the High
Priest had been away from the monastery for
about three years and had returned only the even­
ing before our arrival. During the course of the
lunch, we found these Llamas were well educated,
had a broad outlook on life, had traveled a great
deal and two of them had spent a year in England
and America. They had been told by the Governor
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[138]
of what had transpired the evening before, and
in all a very close fellow feeling was evidenced
before the luncheon was concluded. As for the
Governor, we found him a very congenial fellow
and the only mention made of the previous even­
ing was to the effect that he felt a great enlighten­
ment had come to him. He plainly said that until
the last evening he had harbored a great hatred
for all foreigners. We were obliged to carry on
all conversation through interpreters, which is not
very satisfactory when one wishes to get at the
deep thoughts of the other. Before we left we
were extended a cordial invitation to visit the
monastery and spend the next day there as their
guests. At Emil’s suggestion we accepted and the
next day spent with them was very pleasant and
instructive. We found the head Llama a very
remarkable man. The friendship that began that
day between him and our Chief afterwards ripened
into a close and life-long brotherly understand­
ing, and he was of untold service to us in the later
research work which has been carried on in the
adjoining country.
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[139]
J
UST before the appointed time for the meet­
ing, Emil, his mother and myself went to the
house where the boy was healed, for the
mother and sister, as they had asked to go with
us. On the way from the house to the meeting
place, we passed a number of dilapidated mud
huts. The little girl stopped before the door of
one of these, saying that a blind woman lived there
and asked Emil if she might go in and bring her
to the meeting if she wished to come. This he gave
her permission to do and the girl opened the door
and stepped into the hut, while we stood waiting
just outside. In a few moments the girl reap­
peared in the doorway and said the lady was
afraid, and motioned for Emil to come to her. He
went to the door and they conversed for a few
moments, then both entered the place.
Emil’s mother said, “That child will yet be a
power for good among these people, for she has
the ability and determination to carry out what
she undertakes. We have decided to let her handle
this in her own way, except that we direct and
assist her, guided by what we perceive as the
thing best suited to give her more confidence in
herself. Let us see the method she takes to induce
this woman to be present at the meeting. The fear
that these dear ones hold for us is beyond belief.
Many are moving away from the little one’s
home, when you would think they would besiege
us to assist them in obtaining homes like it. This
is the reason we are obliged to be so careful of
their feelings. While we desire to lift them all
from their surroundings, as we did those dear
ones, they flee from us at the first sign of our ap­
proach.”
CH APTER XIV
[140]
I asked how she was able to help the child and
her parents as she had.
She answered, “Why, that was through the atti­
tude of the child, and through her we could help
them all. She is the balance wheel in that house­
hold and through her we will reach this dear soul
and many more here,” indicating the huts that
were about. “It is these that we love to get close to
our hearts. That little home was not brought forth
in vain.”
Here Emil and the girl appeared, saying the
woman wished the girl to wait for her and they
would come on in a short time. We went on,
leaving the girl with the blind woman.
When we arrived at the meeting place, nearly
every one had assembled and we found that the
High Priest of the monastery was to be the head
spokesman of the evening. We were told that
Emil had met this Llama about eighteen months
before and a warm friendship had been formed
at that time. This meeting had been arranged and
they were there at the Llama’s special request.
This was the occasion for their visit to us the last
day on the desert. We were also told that the
Governor was next in authority under this man.
A number of the surmises of our leader were
confirmed, but our friends showed no fear what­
ever. Emil said that both of these men were
going to be their close friends from that time on,
and that it was seldom they were able to reach
those as high in authority as these two, but they
were content to let matters move on as they were.
We were told that the preceding evening was the
third time that Jesus and Buddha had appeared to
visibly help them, and they seemed pleased that
we were there to witness the same. They did not
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[141]
seem to look upon it as an added triumph, but as
an opportunity to enable them to co-operate and
work with these people.
At this time the girl entered, leading the blind
woman. She found a seat for her charge, a little
to the rear and at one side of the room. After the
woman was seated, the girl stood facing her, hold­
ing both of her hands and in a moment she stooped
forward as though she was speaking to the woman
in a low voice. Then she straightened up and
letting go of the woman’s hands, placed her little
hands over the woman’s eyes and held them there
for two or three moments. This movement seemed
to attract the attention of everyone in the room,
from the High Priest down. All arose and stood
looking at the child and the woman, while the
High Priest walked rapidly over and placed his
hand upon the child’s head. As he did this the
child’s frame shook visibly, but she did not change
her position. The three held this position for a
few moments, when the child removed her hands
and cried out joyously, “Why, you are not blind
at all, you can see.” She pressed her lips to the
woman’s forehead, then turned and walked over
to where our Chief was standing.
She seemed somewhat bewildered and said,
“Why, I spoke in your language. How did I do
that?” Then she said, “Why does not the woman
see she is not blind any more? She can see.”
We looked again at the woman and sure enough
she had risen and, clasping the robe of the High
Priest in both her hands, said in the native tongue,
“Why, I can see you.” Then she looked around the
room with a half-dazed air, saying, “I can see you
all.” She let go of the Priest’s robe and burying
her face in her hands, sank back into the seat she
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[142]
was occupying, sobbing, “I can see, I can see, but
you are all so clean and I am so dirty. Let me
go away.”
Then Emil’s mother stepped forward and stood
directly back of where the woman was sitting and
placed both her hands on the woman’s shoulders.
The Priest raised his hands, but not a word was
spoken. Almost instantly, the woman’s garments
changed to clean new ones. Emil’s mother re­
moved her hands from the woman’s shoulders.
The woman arose and in a dazed, perplexed way
looked around. The Priest asked what she was
looking for, and she replied that she was looking
for her old clothing. Then the Priest said, “Do
not look for your old clothes. See, you are clad in
clean new garments.” She stood for another mo­
ment as though wrapped in perplexed thought,
then her face lighted up with a smile, she bowed
very low and resumed her seat. The excitement
had been so great, that all our party had crowded
around.
The leader, meanwhile, had worked his way to
where the little girl was standing, and they were
conversing in low tones. He told us afterwards,
that the child spoke English very well. Our hostess
had interpreted when the conversation was car­
ried on in the native tongue. We were told that
this woman had been blind for more than twenty-
five years and that the blindness had been caused
by the eyeballs being pierced by fine shot from a
gun in the hands of one of a band of robbers.
Some one suggested that we should be seated
at the table. As we began taking our places, the
woman arose and told Emil’s mother, who had
stood quietly at her side, that she would like to
go. The child stepped forward, saying she would
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[143]
go with her and see that she arrived home safely.
Here the High Priest asked the woman where she
lived and, upon being told, said she must not go
back to that filthy place. The girl spoke and said
she was expecting to have the woman at her house,
and arm in arm they left the room.
When we were all seated, the dishes were placed
on the table as though by unseen hands. At this,
we saw the Priest start and look around in won­
derment. But when the edibles began to arrive
in the same way, he turned to Emil’s mother, who
was seated at his right hand and asked if this was
a regular occurrence with them, saying that he
had never been privileged to witness this before.
He turned to Emil, who was interpreting for us,
as though he would like some explanation. Then
Emil explained they were able to use the same
power that was used to heal the blind woman, to
bring forth all that they needed. It was quite
plain that he was still puzzled, but he said no
more until the meal was well under way.
He arose and, with Jast acting as interpreter,
said, “I believe I can see more deeply than I
imagined human beings could be privileged to see.
Although my whole life has been spent in the
Order of the Priesthood, as I supposed serving
my fellow men, I observe now that I was but serv­
ing self far more than I was serving my brother.
How this brotherhood has been extended tonight—
and my vision has followed that extension! Why,
I am just now allowed to see what a narrow life
we are living; that we have lived despising every­
one but our own. This sublime vision allows me
to see that you are of the sublime as well as we,
and what a celestial joy that vision allows me to
behold.”
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[144]
Here he paused with his hands half upraised,
while a look of surprise and pleasure flooded his
countenance. He stood in this position for a
moment, then he said, “Why this is nonsense. I
can and will speak in the language you speak.
Why can I not do this? Why, I see what your
thoughts were when you told me there was no
limit to man’s ability to express. I do find that I
can speak directly to you so that you may under­
stand.”
He paused for a moment as though to pick up
the thread of thought, then spoke without the aid
of an interpreter. We were told afterwards, that
this was the first time he had spoken in English.
He continued, “How beautiful it is to be able to
speak directly to you in your own language. With
the broader vision this has given me, I am con­
sumed with wonder why men look upon any of
their brothers as enemies. It comes so clearly
that we all must be of the same family, the same
source, the same cause. Would that not deter­
mine that there was room for all? If one brother
chooses to see differently than we do, why should
we say that he must perish? I see we cannot in­
terfere, for if we interfere, we but retard our own
development and isolate ourselves. If we do this,
our house will fall and crumble about our own
heads. Now I see, instead of a limited race, a
universal, eternal, limitless All. All coming from
the One and returning to the One.
“I see that your Jesus and our Buddha lived by
the same light. Their lives, as well as all others
who live in and by that same light, must merge
into the One. I am beginning to see where it all
converges. The crystal clear light is shedding its
radiance over me. I believe that I see man does
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[145]
elevate himself to a regal position, but when he
has gained that position he can no more see his
brother as regal. He wishes to be regal himself,
and his brother to be the serf.
“Why did that child place her hands on the
eyes of that dear one whose eyes were closed?
I see now that it was because that child saw more
deeply than I, who should have had more knowl­
edge. It is what you call a mighty love. It is the
same that caused Jesus and Buddha to stand to­
gether, at which I did wonder, but I do not now
wonder. Now I see that it does no harm to in­
clude you all, for as we include you, we have the
good that you have, and that can but benefit us.
I can see that the power that will always protect
you will protect me. The armor that protects me
will in the same way protect you. If it protects
you and me it must protect all. The dividing line
has disappeared. What a celestial truth! I see
your thought when you say the world is God’s
world and the near and far places are His. If
we see the near and far places together they will
be the same to us. We live in a place surrounded
by our own world, not seeing the fact that outside
of our little world the whole wide world sur­
rounds us, and that world will help us if we will
let it. Then to think that God surrounds one
and all!
“I now see the Holy Brother’s thought when he
said the doors are to be thrown wide to those that
are ready to receive. It is said that man shall
not only give ear, but he shall become that which
he claims to be, and sinking self he shall be im­
mersed in the Brotherhood of Man. It is deeds,
not fine words, that endure. I can see that the
way of progress is not only barred by the creeds
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[146]
of others, but by those of ourselves. Each is
directly claiming the graces of the Most High;
each attempting to build up his own by dis­
mantling and tearing down all others. Instead of
using energy to tear down, that energy should go
to consolidate the whole. The Most High not only
made one nation of one blood, but of one blood
all the nations of the earth. The time is now come
when we must choose between creeds and the
Brotherhood of Man. Creeds are but the conjur­
ing of man. The faith that moves mountains still
slumbers in the seed of that plan. The height and
grandeur is still there for man to attain. The law
of enlightenment has preceded that of miracle.
This law of enlightenment is the higher law of
Love and Love is the Universal Brotherhood.
“I now see that all that is needed is for each to
return to the fountain of his own religion and
remove all false interpretations and cast out all
selfishness. They will find beneath them all, the
pure gold of the alchemist, the Wisdom of the
Most High, your God and my God, not many gods
of many people, just one God. It is the same God
that spoke to Moses from out the burning bush;
the same God of whom Jesus spoke when he said
that through prayer he could summon legions to
sustain him in his hour of mortal struggle in
doing the work the Father had given him to do;
the same God that Peter prayed to when he was
released from prison. I now see the mighty power
that can be summoned to the aid of those that will
co-operate in the Brotherhood of a consecrated
life.”
Here he raised a glass, held it for a moment in
the palm of his hand, became very still and the
glass crumbled to dust. Then he continued, “The
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[147]
armies before Jericho knew of this power when
they blew their trumpets and the walls of the
city fell. Paul and Silas knew of it when they
released themselves from prison.”
Again he stood for a moment in perfect silence
and the building rocked and swayed, great
tongues of lightning flashed, and two great masses
of rock became detached from the mountainside
about a mile away and came rumbling down into
the valley below. The villagers came running
from their houses in terror, and we could scarcely
restrain ourselves from doing the same, so vio­
lently did the building that we were in rock and
sway.
Then he lifted his hand, all became quiet, and
he continued: “Of what avail are armies or
navies, when man knows that God has this power
and His true sons may use it? Why, you can
sweep an army away as a child blows the down.
As for great battleships, they may be dissolved as
this glass.” Here he lifted the plate upon which
he had deposited the powder that now represented
the glass, breathed upon it lightly and it burst into
flames and disappeared entirely.
He again resumed, “These legions come not to
do your work, or my work, or to use man as their
instrument; but man may call upon them to
encourage, sustain, and comfort him, in his work
as master of every condition of life. With this
power man may still the waves, control the winds,
quench the fire or direct the multitude. But one
may only use them as he has mastered them. He
may use them for the good of the whole human
race, or he may use them to drive home the mean­
ing of man co-operating with God. One who is
able in his divinity to call upon these legions,
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[148]
knows beyond question that he can use this com­
bined power only in true service to humanity, for
he knows that it will consume him as well as
defend him.”
Here the speaker paused for a moment,
stretched forth his hands and in a measured,
reverent voice, said, “Father, it is our great pleas­
ure to have these, our dear friends, with us tonight
and it is with a true and humble heart that we
say ‘Your will be done.’ We bless them and in
blessing them we bless the whole world.”
He sat down as calmly as though nothing out of
the ordinary had taken place, and all our friends
were calm, but the members of our party were on
tiptoe with excitement. Then the invisible choir
broke forth with “All know the power that’s in a
name, and man may proclaim himself the King
and then with humble mien, that man may rule
himself supreme.”
During this remarkable demonstration of power
we had been unconscious of our tense, nervous
condition, but as the choir finished, we became
conscious of the fact and we seemed to need this
very thing to help us to relax. When the last
strains of music had died away, we arose from
the table and gathered around our friends and the
Priest.
This gave the leader and our Chief opportunity
to ask questions and the Priest, seeing their inter­
est, invited them to spend the night at the monas­
tery with him. They bade us goodnight and left
the room together.
We were scheduled to leave at noon next day.
It was arranged that only Jast and Chander Sen
should accompany us to our outfitting point,
where Emil would join us and the three would
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[149]
return with us to the village of our winter quar­
ters. After these arrangements were completed,
we returned to camp but did not retire until
nearly daybreak, so interested were we in talking
of what we had witnessed.
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[150]
CHAPTER XY
A
T TWELVE o’clock, with all final arrange­
ments complete, the expedition moved out
Lof the village amid the cheers and good
wishes of the greater number of the villagers, who
had gathered to bid us goodbye. Our next stopping
place, where we were obliged to cross a wide
stream, was reached about six that evening. It was
thought best to camp here in order to prepare for
the crossing, as this would consume the greater
part of the next day. As there was no bridge or
boat, the crossing was accomplished by sliding
across on a large cable made of plaited leather
thongs that had been stretched across the river.
The individual members of the party experienced
no difficulty in negotiating the cable. The chief dif­
ficulty was in getting the horses and mules across.
This was finally accomplished by making a strong
sling from leather straps and arranging it so that
an attachment would fit over and slide along the
leather cable. This sling was first securely fas­
tened around the animal’s body, then secured over
the cable, and the animal was pushed over the
bluff, where it would hang suspended above the
roaring torrent until it was pulled to the other
bank. To this sling was attached ropes of suffi­
cient length to reach across the river, one serving
to pull the animal across, while the other served
to pull the sling back again for another animal.
In this way all were crossed safely. We experi­
enced no further difficulty and aside from the
crossing, we found the trail much better than the
one we had followed going out. We arrived safely
at our outfitting point, where the expedition was
disbanded, and arrangements were completed for
[151]
those that were to return home to go on to the
seaport by the regular caravan route.
The next morning Emil joined us and after bid­
ding our associates goodbye we started out on
our return trip to the village of our former winter
quarters. We again stopped two days to rest at
the bandit camp, where the two men remained,
thus reducing our party to seven. These two men
told their comrades of the remarkable trip they
had made and the wonders they had seen. Our
party was shown every courtesy. Our three
friends came in for the greater honors and the
leader of the band assured them that they would
hold the location of the cities absolutely sacred
out of their respect for the consideration that had
been shown them. We were told there was very
little danger of this band ever attempting to go so
far away, as the desert bandits never invaded the
mountains nor did the mountain bandits invade
the desert, for they were continuously at war with
each other. So far as we know they have faith­
fully kept their promise.
The morning we left this camp, the leader of the
band came and gave our Chief a small silver
coin about the size and weight of an English
shilling, with a curiously wrought inscription
upon it, saying that if any of the bandit bands in
that country molested us, by showing this we
would gain our instant release. He told us that
it had been in the possession of his family for
many generations, and that he cherished it very
highly, but he wished our Chief to have it as a
token of his esteem. After examining it carefully,
Emil said it was a very faithful reproduction of a
coin that had been in use in the Northern Gobi
many thousands of years ago. The date showed
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[152]
that this particular coin had been made more than
seven hundred years before. He then told us that
these coins were worn as a kind of charm by some
of the natives of the region and the older they
were, the more efficacious they were supposed to
be. No doubt it was prized very highly by the
leader and the whole band. From this village we
continued our journey and arrived at our winter
quarters in due time without further incident. We
were welcomed heartily by the party that visited
us in the desert and whom we had left at the vil­
lage where we met the High Priest.
We were again invited to share the home of our
former hostess, which invitation we gladly ac­
cepted. This time there were but four of us, as
seven of our associates had returned to India and
Mongolia to carry on further research work. This
arrangement had been suggested and agreed to
in order to give us more time for the translation
of the records. All was quiet in the little village
and we gave every moment of our time to the
arrangement and form of the symbols and char­
acters which made up the alphabet, placing them
in the order that enabled us to use them, thus
giving us an insight into the meaning of the words.
In this we were assisted by Chander Sen. While
he was not with us all the time, he or our hostess
was always at hand to help us over the difficult
places. This continued until the last days of De­
cember, when we noticed that a number of people
were again congregating for the yearly gathering.
They were nearly all people we had met at the
gathering the year before. We found that instead
of meeting in the place they did the year before,
they were to meet in the temple and use the center
room of the five upper rooms that were arranged
along the ledge and already described.
[153]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
We went up to this room, early New Year’s
Eve, in order to meet and talk with those that
had gathered. We found they were from numer­
ous places and they told us of things that had
happened in the outside world, with which we
were beginning to feel we had lost all contact. Yet
we were happy in our work, the time passed
rapidly and we were very content. While we
were talking, one of the guests came in, and said
that the moon was very beautiful. A number of
those in the room, including all of our party,
walked out upon the ledge. It was indeed a beau­
tiful sight from that elevation. The moon had
just risen, and seemed to be floating through a
great bank of delicate colors which were reflected
on the vast expanse of snow that covered moun­
tain and valley, and the colors were continuously
changing. Some one said, “O, the carillon will
ring tonight.” In a few moments they did begin.
At first it was as though a bell located a long way
off had been struck three times, then smaller and
smaller ones, coming nearer until they seemed
but tiny bells located directly at our feet. So real
was the impression that we looked down expect­
ing to see the bells. This melody continued until
it seemed as though thousands of bells were being
struck in perfect harmony. The bank of color
would rise until it appeared to be even with the
ledge where we were standing, and it would seem
as though we could step out upon it, so completely
did it shut out the earth below. As the color raised
in undulating swells, the sound of the bells would
increase until the melody filled every niche.
It appeared as though we were standing on the
stage of a great amphitheatre with thousands of
dim forms and faces of those listening to the bells.
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[154]
Then a full, strong tenor voice began to sing
“America,” and in an instant thousands of voices
took up the words while the bells carried the
melody. Thus the song went booming on until the
end, when voices back of us said, “America, we
greet you.” Then others said, “We greet the
whole world.”
We turned and there stood Jesus, the High
Priest and Emil. We had become so enraptured
by the phenomenon that was taking place about
us that we had become wholly unconscious that
there were others near us. All stepped aside to
let the three enter the room. As Jesus turned to
step through the door, we could see that remark­
able light that always shone out when he was
present, and as he stepped through the door the
whole room became a blaze of white light. All
went in and were seated at the tables. Jesus was
seated at the first table and the Priest at our table
with Emil and our Chief on either side. This
time there were but two long tables down the
length of the room. There were no coverings, but
as we were seated, the tables were covered with
white linen and the service came on almost as
quickly. The food seemed to come with the
plates, with the exception of the bread. A loaf
seemed to appear on the table before Jesus. He
picked it up and began breaking it, placing the
pieces on a plate. When the plate was filled, a
dim childish form lifted the plate and stood silent
until seven plates were filled and seven forms
stood holding them. As Jesus broke the bread
and filled the plates, the loaf did not diminish.
As the last plate was filled, Jesus arose and with
outstretched hands said, “This bread which I pre­
sent to you, represents God’s pure Life. Partake
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[155]
of that pure Life which is always of God.” Then
as the bread was handed around, he went on to
say, “When I said I am lifted up and that by being
so lifted up I would draw all men to me, I knew
that in the light of that experience some day all
would see eye to eye and know full well that they
could be and were lifted up as I am lifted. I saw
heaven right here on earth among men. This is
the Truth that I perceived and the Truth will
make all free. Then they will find that there is
but one fold and one shepherd, and if one strays
it. is safe to leave all of the ninety and nine and
seek the one that he may return. God may be
all in all to all of His children, and all are His,
for they are far nearer and dearer to Him than
the sparrows or the lilies of the field. If He
rejoices in the lilies’ growth and notes the spar­
row’s fall, how much more does He note the
growth of His dear children. Neither does He
judge them more than He does the lilies or the
sparrow, but holds them dear to His great cause
and not one can be left out when His perfection
is established.
“I could see that if this ideal could be graven in
letters of purest gold on the walls of the temples
of the world’s great thought, it would lift men’s
thoughts above the murk and mire by setting their
feet on a rock, a sure foundation where the winds
and tides could lash and roar; but while they
stood steadfast and true, they would be secure.
Because of this security, peace and calm, they
would aim to the heights where they see their true
dominion. They may soar above, but they will
not find heaven above, but right among men, and
this is not reached by merely plodding on and on,
in toil and sorrow, and great tribulation and then
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[156]
eventually finding the great Jewel. It is much
more quickly reached by throwing off all ma­
teriality and the laws that thereby bind them to
the eternal wheel. Then step forth, pick up the
Jewel, incorporate it, let the light shine forth, and
you have gained by one direct step that which you
may put off through all eternity, if you will. You
will find that the soul that insists upon immediate
and complete spiritual illumination and emanci­
pation, here and now, and knows that his relation
to God is the relation of parent and child, quickly
sees that this not only makes clear the divine pos­
sibilities, but he has them to use and they will
work for him as he wills. To that one, the New
Testament story will not be fiction or a vague
dream that may happen after death, but an ideal
that is lifted up before the world of a perfect
realization of a life of love and service. That
ideal is the divine accomplishment of all, here
and now.
“Then will they know the vision I saw when I
said, ‘Many shall seek to enter in and shall not,
for strait is the gate and narrow is the way that
leads to eternal life.’ For without the true appre­
ciation of the Christ Ideal and the divine and
perfect plan of the co-operation of man and God
right here on this earth, the realization of this
ideal is impossible and it becomes only a dream,
a myth, nothing.
“The door giving access to this omnipotent and
transforming alchemy of the Spirit in man is open
to all at all times, and the key to its opening
is in the thoughts of all. For when two ideals and
methods of salvation, or the saving grace of God’s
love, are different, it is man’s thoughts and not
God that made them so. Those who close the door
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[157]
to the immediate blessings of God for all of His
children isolate themselves from the immediate
blessings that God bestows upon the Christ Child,
and the spiritual illumination of the transcendent
alchemy of Spirit and the all-potent power which
are theirs to use as the Christ would and should
use them. When they recognize this, the leper
will be made whole instantly, the withered arm
restored, and all diseases of body and mind will
vanish at their touch. Through the concentration
of the spoken word, they will multiply the loaves
and fishes and as they break the bread or pour
the oil for the multitude it will never diminish
but there will always be an abundance left. They
will calm the raging sea or tempest by their com­
mand, and gravitation will be overruled by levita­
tion, for their command is the command of God.
Then will they know my thoughts when I gave
forth my opening message to the world as I left
the temple that day when I said ‘the time is ful­
filled and the Kingdom of God is at hand,’ and,
‘have faith in God and nothing is impossible to
you.’ All who believe they can do the works that
I do, and will come forth and do them, may do
even greater works than I have done. They will
know that it is a process of living the life, believing
and knowing; then absolutely nothing is impossi­
ble to them.
“They will know that the Holy Spirit, the whole
of the Divine Spirit in them, says today just as it
did long ago, that if they will hear its voice and
harden not their hearts, they will find they are
the light of the world and they that follow that
light shall not walk in darkness. They will know
that they are the door by which all enter into the
light-of life, and they will go in and out by that
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[158]
door and they will find peace eternal and great
joy and will find that now is the accepted time.
“They will find that the Christ but opens the
door to their own souls and the spirit that dwells
therein is the all-potent alchemy as limitless as
the universe of God is limitless. The alchemy will
dissolve and transmute all manner of sickness and
erase clean the mortal life of guilt and the effects
of sin; illuminate the soul with the perfect light of
Wisdom; emancipate from and dissolve the dark­
ened conditions of human life into the perfect
light of life. Thus they will see they are not only a
child of nature but a child of God as well. They
will bring forth the absolute perfection of the indi­
vidual and thus will perfect the race. They will
bring forth the ideal and the divinely inspired
prophecy concerning the final destiny of man here
on earth, the identity of Father and Son, which is
the second birth, the perfect mastery of man over
every condition and circumstance.”
Here Jesus paused and the lights became
brighter and brighter. Then pictures began to ap­
pear. The scenes were glorious bursts of splendor.
The pictures would come on, a transforming hand
would reach out and touch them, and they would
develop into a great whole and become beautiful.
There came on a great war scene. We saw men
struggling and fighting against each other. The
cannon were belching forth flames and smoke.
Shells burst overhead and among the great throng,
and men were falling on every hand. We could
hear the roar and din of battle. Indeed, it was so
real that it seemed certain a real battle was in
progress, but as the transforming hand reached
out and over it, in an instant all became calm and
as those that had been fighting so furiously but
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[159]
a moment before, looked up, the hand traced in
flaming letters that seemed to spread over the
whole scene: “Peace, Peace, the Blessed Peace of
God surrounds you. You can only hurt and
destroy the mortal. But one of God’s own you can
not destroy and you are all His own children. You
can neither hurt nor destroy each other.”
Then for a moment it seemed that men were
again determined the struggle should proceed, and
this determination showed on many faces, especi­
ally those of the leaders. But it appeared that the
more determined they became to go on, the less
cause there seemed to be for a display of force.
It also seemed the more they attempted to dis­
charge the weapons of destruction, the less effect
they had, for try as they would, not a weapon
could be used.
Then the hand went on to trace, “Behind every
cloud of storm or war, if men will only look, they
will find God there. They will find that God did
not create the cloud of storm or war, that man
created them, and if they will look beyond and
see, they will always find God’s hand upraised in
peace. War is not sent or ordained by God, for
when men war with each other they are entirely
outside of God’s province, or power. They are
entirely immersed in a man-made realm where
God cannot interfere in any way and they will be
obliged to go on in this way until they see the
fallacy of such strife. If one is sufficiently strong
in his realization of God-power and he knows
his ability to co-operate with that power and does
co-operate, he can stop a war instantly just as you
saw it stopped in this picture.”
Then Jesus continued, “I chose the way of the
cross, for it was not my Father’s choice for me
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
[160] .
but my choice, that all might see they can so per­
fect the life and body that although it be destroyed
it can be rebuilt and become more triumphant.”
The lights grew even brighter, until every vestige
of limitation had disappeared, not a wall sur­
rounded us, not a roof overhead, not a floor
beneath. We all stood together in boundless space,
and the twelve disciples came and arranged them­
selves near the Great Master, but did not surround
him for his presence stood out far more promi­
nently than any other, with a never-to-be-forgot­
ten brilliance and purity. The invisible choir
boomed out “His Kingdom is here, for, of, and
among men. Now, henceforth and forever, one
man, one God.” The transforming hand again
appeared and traced the words, “His Kingdom is
here now, among men, henceforth, forever, one
man, one God.” Then directly over Jesus’ head
were traced the words, “ALL FOR ONE, ONE FOR
ALL.”
Here Buddha appeared, standing at Jesus’ right
hand. The Priest and Emil walked to them and
knelt before them, Emil at Buddha’s right and the
Priest at Jesus’ left. Jesus clasped Buddha’s
partly upraised hand. They raised their free
hands until they were over and just above the
heads of the two who were kneeling, and said,
“Peace! Peace! Peace! A glorious peace rests
over all. We receive you, our dear brothers, into
the great council of God’s beneficent Love, and
that Love and Fellowship includes the whole
world.” Then all those assembled bowed their
heads and made way, and the four without chang­
ing their attitude passed through the assembly. As
they passed, the disciples and a number of those
assembled followed and all passed on until they
disappeared from our vision.
[ 1.61]
TEACHING OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
THE LIFE OF THE MASTERS OF THE FAR EAST
As they began moving through the assembly,
the invisible choir chanted “We make way for
these mighty brothers of Love, for that Love, the
mighty Love of God redeems and unites all man­
kind in the great council of God’s Love, the
Brotherhood of Man and God.” As they passed
from view the great bell boomed out twelve
strokes. Then for a moment, the bells all pealed
a merry refrain and thousands of voices joined in
“We bring the glad New Year and a brighter day
for all the world.”
Our second year with these great souls had
closed.
ADDENDUM
I
N concluding this, the Second Volume of Life
and Teaching of the Masters of the Far East,
I wish to state that my reason for not includ­
ing the translations of the records in this volume
is that space at my command would not allow
inclusion of the full translations. It is thought
best to leave them to be included in the reports
of my associates.
The attention of the reader is called to the fact
that parts of the lessons have been given out by
members of our party as well as by myself, and
a number of the instances taken therefrom have
been published. At the time of giving them out,
a definite decision to publish my notes in book
form had not been formulated. b.t .s.
