{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__spivey___christianity_and_mythology.pdf","mytitle":"Christianity And Mythology","mylang":"de"}
Christianity and
Mythology
By Thomas Sawyer Spivey
PUBLISHED AND DISTRIBUTED
— By —
Thomas Sawyer Spivey
Beverly Hills, California
Copyrighted
With All Rights Reserved
1927
— By —
THOMAS SAWYER SPIVEY
Dedication
WE
dedicate this work to all those who are seek
ing the truth, for truth alone teaches right
living. Doctrine without the support of logic and
reason is not truth. Prejudice is only too often the
sole basis of doctrine; therefore, we place these
pages before our readers in the light of comparison,
that the truth may shine forth above prejudice,
sophistry and fallacy. Bigotry and intolerance are
born of false doctrines, and cultivated ignorance.
Above all things prize true knowledge based upon
reason —that is wisdom.
Other Books
— By —
THOMAS SAWYER SPIVEY
Lavius Egyptus. (2 Vol.)
Jane and I.
Dr. Paul McKim.
The Hoosier Widow.
The Seven Sons of Ballyhack.
The Caverns of Crail.
The Pacific Ocean, the End of Human En
deavor.
Is This a Dying World?
Speculative Anthropology.
The Light of the Nation.
The Revelation.
The Resurrection.
The Last of the Gnostic Masters.
,-'
PREFACE
"Vegetables are in reality an inferior order of
animals." (Erasmus Darwin. Ph. of Ag. 1799.)
"Of all the faculties of the human mind, reason
stands at the summit. Only a few persons now
dispute that animals possess the power to reason.
"Animal superstition is suggested in the melan
choly howl of the dog on moonlight nights." (Hu
mans sent up the same howl during the dark ages.)
"The embryos of a man, dog, seal, bat, reptile,
etc., can at first hardly be distinguished from each
other.
"It is only natural prejudice, and arrogance which
made men declare they were descended from demi
gods. But the time will before long come, when
it will be thought wonderful that naturalists, who
were well acquainted with the comparative structure
and development of man, and other mammals, should
have believed that each was the work of a separate
act of creation.
"Much of the work done by man is due to imita
tion, and not to reason. Man must be taught to
do practically everything he does, whereas all ani
mals instictively go about their works without
teachers.
"Imitation modified the intellectual powers of man
as he developed."
(Charles Darwin)
We have thus quoted from the Darwins to lead up
to the truth, that, the animal habits are the same
yesterday, today, and, for as long as animals exist
upon this planet. Mimicry, imitation and sugges
tion are the/ basic laws of human progress, and men
cannot be driven out of this rut.
Raise a puppy with a litter of kittens and you
will find he will imitate all their peculiar motions.
Raise a child in a pen with pigs and he will imi
tate what he sees the pigs doing.
The development of the human brain imitates
the whole process of animal evolution.
The foetel human brain.
1st month, that of an avertebrated animal.
2nd month, that of a fish.
3rd month, that of a turtle.
4th month, that of a bird.
5th month, that of a rodent.
6th month, that of a ruminant.
7th month, that of a digitigrade animal.
8th month, that of the quadrumana.
9th month, attains full human character.
(Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation.)
We have quoted this to demonstrate the absurdity
of the "special creation of man," as taught by
Christianity, and to reveal the reason why the Chris
tians so bitterly assail science, philosophy and natural
evolution. These proclaim the utter falsity of the
whole Ecclesiastical system of evasion, concealment
and cold-blooded, selfish ambition. There is not one
single intent to benefit humanity at large, which
is not merely incidental to the main purpose of the
Christian exploitation.
Science teaches astronomy, chemistry and physi
ology. Astronomy reveals the fallacy of the wor
ship of the heavenly bodies. Christianity is con
cealed sun-worship, fire-worship and light-worship ,
associated with doctrines adopted from all other
religions.
Chemistry reveals the utter ignorance of the
writers of the alleged Hebrew scriptures.
Physiology vindicates a clean-cut, natural animal
evolution which includes man, and disputes his
alleged "special creation."
Philosophy reveals the plagiarized doctrines which
Chrisianity attempts to palm off as original with
itself.
It is our purpose to place before thinkers, evi
dences of Christian plagiarisms from ancient myth
ologies, and to reveal a hidden, code system which
conceals a story and purpose wholly contrary to
the pretended teachings of Christianity.
The Christian plagiarisms merely betray the com
mon animal instinct to imitate, mimic, and filch
the thunder and lightning of other systems to make
their own more attractive.
Like some of the birds who hide their bright
colors beneath their wings, to be revealed in secret,
the Christians conceal their scheme in figure, sym
bol and code, to enthrall their inner priesthood, in
spire church workers, and deceive humanity at large.
The Author.
CHAPTER I
MYTHOLOGY?
Fable, tale, talk, speech, imagination. (Webster)
Did it ever occur to you, reader, to examine for
yourself, the influences which have governed your
life upon this earth? You are directly responsible
for those whom you have been instrumental in
bringing into the world to live under the same con
ditions and become parents of future generations.
Mythology ! Perhaps you never thought of
it,
yet your whole life
is
a
myth,
a
false-pretense,
a
tragedy
!
No?
We shall try to convince you.
Webster —our own Webster —very plainly tells
us that mythology
is
a
fake. Nevertheless, myth
ology has practically controlled the course of civili
zation, and governed humanity, with an iron rod,
for two thousand years, and you, and
I,
reader,
are pathetic, gibbering victims.
Of course we believe ourselves . sane and com
petent, but that signifies little, for
it
all depends
upon the true significance of sanity. The viewpoints
are so divergent there
is
no visible standard of san
ity. The arbitrary definition of sanity is, belief in,
and agreement with, ruling doctrines
of
religion and
government—an enforced definition.
You, doubtless, wonder what this has to do with
mythology.
Well,
it
has
a
lot to do with it. Mythology
is
the basis of the Christian religion, and the Christian
14 Christianity and Mythology
religion has: dominated civil governments for fifteen
centuries, developing humanity as it is.
A review of Greek and Roman mythology is neces
sary to establish this hypothesis. Nothing is truth
until it is demonstrated.
The Christian theme has drawn more from the
Greek, fori its higher elements, than from any other
source, although it has liberally plagiarized from
any source from which it could draw attractive
ideas with which to coerce and hypnotize credulous
humanity.
Any one who knows Rome, the carcass of a dead
civilization, will shudder at the remembrance of
the Pantheon—the "Temple of all the Gods," with
its cart-loads of rotting, rattling bones, allegedly
of Saints —that means nothing.
When one listens to the blaa-blaa of this fable,
he feels like he has been hit in the face by a piece
of rotten fruit. Later we shall have something to
say about these fabulous Saints, and this Pantheon.
The origin of Greece and Rome, the Aryan race,
originally situated in the mountains of northern
India, naturally blends their religions based upon
practically a common system of mythology.
Our primary object is to demonstrate, that, hu
manity at large has been so thoroughly drilled in
all that engenders insanity, it is a logical sequence
that each new generation has manifested greater
aberration from the natural state.
We specifically charge every collective, human
dereliction from a natural course of civil evolution,
to the mythological. Christian exploitation, seeking
Christianity and Mythology 15
16 Christianity and Mythology
to establish a religio-political super-government,
solely for monetary profits and self aggrandizement.
In all ages where Gods have been recognized, the
God was the supreme ruler, therefore, in the devel
opment of the Christian scheme, the chief object
was to establish a supreme ruling power to be recog
nized as the guiding spirit of nations already formed
and in control of peoples.
The first evidence of this is found in the name
assumed by the promoters of the Christian scheme.
Ecclesia. This was the name of the legislative body
which ruled over ancient Athens in Greece. The
Ecclesiastics developed the Christian enterprise, and
Ecclesiasticism means ulterior government, concealed
behind a religious pretense.
If the Christian exploiters believed it was profit
able to adopt one feature of the mythological sys
tems, it is logical to assume they would adopt others,
therefore, let us first scrutinize the Greek and Ro
man mythology, and, afterwards, compare it with
the Ecclesiastic secret code to see to what extent
they plagiarized from them.
We gather our materials from so many sources
we cannot give specific credit to the authors. More
over, so much of it dates back to the sixteenth, sev
enteenth and eighteenth centuries, with evidences
that even many authorities fail to give credit to
previous delvers, it is needless to say more, than,
that, all that we write or quote is founded on the
best obtainable facts, and acknowledged authorities.
Naturally, mythology as a system of religious
worship, is a form of idolatry, and exploits the vain
glory of men aspiring to leadership. This is es
Christianity and Mythology 17
pecially true regarding the Greek system, and the
Roman imitation, from which Christianity plagiar
ized the materials for its fabulous scriptures.
Not satisfied with having drawn upon Greece for
its art, science and philosophy, Rome unblushingly
pilfered from the Greek system its most potent
Gods, and concealed them under new raiment. This
is so true no one seriously disputes
it,
notwithstand
ing the confusion this has created.
There
is
no authentic history regarding the origin
of the Pantheon in Rome, but its most important
history begins with the seventh century, when Pope
Boniface IV converted
it
into a Christian storage
plant for some twenty-seven truck loads of miscel
laneous, unidentified, human bones, dumped into
it
as the alleged bones of Saints, including, per
haps, those of Peter, Paul and the Virgin Mary.
Think of the mother of God roosting with a lot of
mangey old monks.
But, this
is
not all
;
it
was the tomb of the whole
system
of
Greek and Roman Gods, who had devel
oped out of the sordid flattery of subjects toward
their princes, rulers, and nobility, and an absurd
belief on the part of these exalted classes, that,
immortality rested upon their earthly performances.
Even science and philosophy became excuses for
perpetuating the memories of conspicuous men. A
multitude of crumbling monuments betray the fal
lacy of this human aberration.
The nearest approach to
a
beginning of the Chris
tian imitation of this system of manufactured Gods,
is
found in the wholly fabulous and romantic story
that Ninus, the first king of Assyria, deified his
18 Christianity and Mythology
father, Belus, who is' Nimrod in the bible. Belus is
Chaldee for the sun.
We at once have evidence of the Greek origin
of the God Belus, he allegedly being the son of
Neptune and Libya.
Neptune is a major Greek God.
Libya is a Greek name for Africa. -
We have two unquestionable evidences that Ec-
clesiasticism plagiarized from the Greek mythology
—the Pantheon and the secret Ecclesiastical Code —
besides, Ecclesia is Greek.
Libya is mentioned in Ezekiel 30:5, and means,
in the code, the heart of the sea. The name is fur
ther disguised as Lubim associated with war, as is
further evidenced by another disguising name Le-
habim, signifying flames, the point of the sword,
mentioned in (Genesis 10:13).
From the very beginning, the Ecclesiastic plagiar
isms assume threatening and sinister aspects, as
revealed by the secret code. We shall later go more
fully into this.
We shall first identify the important Gods. They
are very explicitly classified.
1. Celestial Gods, Dii Majorum gentium.
2. Dii Minorum gentium.
3. Minuti, Vesci and Miscellanei, also called
Semones.
Although these are also Gods of the Greeks as
well, this is a Roman classification.
In addition to these it is alleged, that, the Sabines
brought to Rome the Gods which they had taken in
conquest under King Tatius, called Novensiles. To
this class belong the Gods and Goddesses by whose
Christianity and Mythology 19
help and means men are advanced to heaven—they
represent and personify the principal virtues.
"THE TWELVE GODS"
These mythological Gods, with their astronomical
significance, also presided over the twelve celestial
signs of the zodiac, and represented the twelve
months of the year.
Ecclesiastic
Code Meaning
(Friend of Paul) Youth
army
(Athens) wisdom
love
(Friend of Paul) destroyer
(Associate of Paul) merchant
Juno,
Neptune,
Minerva,
Venus,
Apollo,
Mercury,
Jupiter,
Ceres,
Vulcan,
Mars,
Diana,
Vesta,
There is another division or classification of "Ce
lestial Gods," —recognized also by the Ecclesiasts.
Ecclesiastic
Code Meaning
Jupiter, (father Jove) Lord
Apollo, destroyer
Mars, war
Mercury, commerce
Bacchus, (Dionysus) revelry
January,
February,
March,
April,
May,
June,
July, (Acts 14, 12. Barnabas was called
Jupiter) lord
August crooked
September, judgment
October, war
November, safety
December, protection
20 Christianity and Mythology
Dii Majorum Gentium
Christianity and Mythology 21
Six Goddesses
Juno, youth
Vesta, protection
Minerva (Pallas-athene) wisdom
Venus, love
Luna (Diana-Hecate) safety
Bellona (wife of Mars) war
The moon has three personalities.
Luna in heaven, (Moon) measure
Diana on earth, safety
Hecate in the lower regions, (Procerpine)
Goddess of the streets
There are eight Gods of the Dii Minorum gen
tium.
Janus, his temple open during war and closed in
time of peace.
Saturnus, the Roman God corresponding to the
Greek Cronus, time.
Genius, nature, God of invention.
Sol, the sun.
Pluto, King of the lower regions.
Bacchus, God of wine and revelry.
Tellus, Talus, the watchman — (Ops wife of
Cronus).
Luna, (Diana), safety.
In Acts 14:12, Paul is called Mercury and Barna
bas was called Jupiter. Barnabas, son of comfort, was
companion to Paul. In Hebrew Paul, the worker,
is Saul, the grave.
Now we shall locate the plagiarized Greek Gods
in the Pantheon at Rome. The afore mentioned
Gods are here divided into six classes as follows :
1. The celestial Gods are upon the Arch.
22 Christianity and Mythology
2. The terrestrial Gods are upon the right-hand
wall.
3. The marine and river Gods upon the left-
handi wall.
4. The Infernal Gods on the lower part near
the pavement.
5. The minuti or semones, and miscellanea be
fore you.
6. The adscriptitii and indigetesnei behind you.
By his conversion of the Pantheon into a Chris
tian church, and mingling the bones of the Catholic
saints with the images of these Greek Gods, Pope
Boniface IV acknowledged and accepted them as
a part of the Christian hosts. The frequency with
which many of them are mentioned throughout the
bible corroborates this recognition.
It is important to examine into the characters of
these Greek and Roman Gods to learn what merit
they possess which justifies their worship by the
common herd of humanity chained to the plebeian
earth, and- what services they have rendered to
Ecclesiasticism to justify its adopting them into its
sacred family.
The Gods Commonly Called Celestials
Jupiter.
The father and king of Gods and men, sits upon
a throne of ivory and gold, under a rich canopy,
bearded. He holds thunder in his right hand. His
sceptre is made of cypress which wood is free from
corruption. On his sceptre sits an eagle, because,
in his wars with the giants an eagle brought him
his thunder, hence, the eagle is called Jupiter's ar
mour bearer.
Christianity and Mythology 23
Jupiter wears golden shoes, and an embroidered
cloak adorned with various flowers and figures of
animals.
But this mighty God-king is not omnipotent after
all, for Dionysius (Bacchus 2. Mace. 14:33) the
tyrant, took Jupiter's gorgeous robe from him in
Sicily and handed him a woolen horse-blanket,
telling him it would be warmer and more conven
ient in winter, all of which proves that even the
father of Gods was. subject to inconvenience due
to change of seasons and weather.
We find Jupiter among the Lacedemonians with
out ears, whereas, with the Cretans, he has four ears.
It is alleged Jupiter was born in Crete, which
name, in the Ecclesiastic code, means carnal. His
parents were Cronus=time and Rhea, mother of
Gods. The Romans accepted him as chief among
Gods. He presided over the heavens and was
called the "cloud-gatherer," "mighty thunderer,"
"God of the broad light of day," which identifies
him as the Sun. He married innumerable Goddesses
who bore him practically all the other Gods as
sons, hence he is named the father of Gods. In the
Greek, Jupiter is Zeus; in Africa Amnion, meaning
the people, hence he is the father of the Ammon
ites of the bible. (Num. 21 :24) ; in Babylon, mean
ing mixture and confusion, he was Belus, the Sun;
in Egypt, meaning oppression and trouble, he was
Osiris, the God of the Sun.
It is estimated there were three hundred different
Jupiters. Inasmuch as he was carnal born, Jupiter
or Zeus
is,
a
type of Jesus. As Ammon he typifies
the people.
24 Christianity and Mythology
High authorities on Heathen Theology assert that
Jupiter was born of Aether, the God of light, and
Proserpine, the queen of hell.
Some of the fabulous stories relate that he was
fed on honey by the bees, while others say he was
fed by a goat, others by doves, and by an eagle,
and a bear, and others too numerous to mention,
but the most sensible and human statement we find
is,
that, he was born like other human babies,
ig
norant, and had to be educated. All of this tommy-
rot smacks strongly of Christian imitation, found
in the infancy of, Jesus.
It
is
not necessary to recount the endless exploits
of this fabulous being. Those who desire to read
them may find them in the public libraries. It
is,
however, interesting to examine the numerous
names under which Jupiter
is
concealed, or, rather,
some of them, for they are so numerous all may
not be given.
The Greeks called him Zeus, the father, or Ham
mon, sandy, perhaps Hammon-gog,
a
multitude of
Gog. (Ezekiel 39: 11, 15). Gog
is
Magog, mean
ing dissolving, covering.
When Bacchus was athirst in the fabulous desert
of Arabia Jupiter appeared in the form of
a
ram
and opened
a
fountain with his foot and quenched
his thirst. The story of Moses striking the rock
with his rod
is
a
modified form of this.
Arabia means
a
mixture of peoples.
The Babylonians and Assyrians, whom he gov
erned, called him Belus, the sun, the impious author
of idolatry. The uncertainty of his descent caused
them to call him the "first God."
Christianity and Mythology 25
Babylon means mixture and confusion.
Assyria means happiness. It is significant that
Belus is identified as Nimrod who built Babylon,
and means rebellion.
In different places and languages Jupiter was
called :
Beel, Baal, Lord, Beelzebub Lord of the house,
Beelphegor, Belzeman.
He was also called Capitolinus, from Capitoline
hill in Rome on which was built the first Roman
temple.
He was called Tarpeius, from the Tarpeian rock
on which his temple was built.
Also named Optimus Maximus and Custos, or
Jupiter Custos, Diespiter, the father of light, and
by the Cretans Dies Pater, father of the day.
Dodona gave him the name Dodonaeus. He was
named Elicius because men's prayers bring him
down from heaven. Feretrius, because he smites
his enemies. From hurling thunder he was called
Fulminator which comes near to the Egyptian
Rameses, thunder, and the fulmi nations of the
modern evangelist. In Licia they worshipped him un
der the name of Gragus, and Genitor, and in Aegium
as Homogynus ; at Praeneste, Imperator. In Latium
he was called Lotialis. The name Lapis or Lapideus
was given him by the Romans.
The sun shines on all nations alike, hence, Jupiter
as symbolizing the sun takes the name of the place
where he sheds his benign influence.
Paul and Barnabas were called Mercurius and
Jupiter, but repudiated their worship. (Acts 14:12).
26 Christianity and Mythology
The Greek Zeus is the proper name of Jupiter,
for he gives life to animals.
The significance of the fable of Jupiter is worth
examining. The Greeks were especially clear in
the adjustment of their Gods to their human needs
and the acts of nature. These acts of their Gods
were not miraculous as much as natural.
It is clear that Rome adopted the idea of the
Pantheon from the Greeks, for in the Greek lan
guage pan means all, universal, and theos means
God, pan-theon meaning "all the Gods" —a sop to
the Greeks.
Jupiter was the deity of the wind, rain and thun
der.
The Ecclesiasts extend this into a code in which
Jupiter becomes the God of altogether
"
different
things. In this code, wind means war.
Rain means doctrines.
Thunder means exhortation, preaching blood and
thunder. The Babylon Mirodach was the God of
contrition and death, and he was identified with
Jupiter. Both these Gods had to do with shepherd
ing the stars, and keeping them in order and in
their places. The stars symbolized the priesthood.
A Greek myth attributes three eyes to Jupiter.
The Cretans gave him four ears.
Jove is equivalent to Jehovah.
Ju-piter is the "ever-existent father" "who has
existed forever," specifically referring to the Sun,
the belief of the time being, that, the heavenly
bodies were ever-existent.
The words peter, pater, papa, pope all come from
the same sources as piter, and all mean father, with
Christianity and Mythology 27
reference to the sun as the parent of all living
things.
Some called Jupiter fire, and Juno air, and they
beget animal life upon the earth and in the waters.
Plato declared the sun as Jupiter. He is also
called the soul of the world permeating the universe,
and governing the world by his providence. He
recognizes and is the moderator between them.
Thus we find Jupiter endowed with every trait
and characteristic attributed to the Christian God,
proving that this God is the sun.
Apollo—
Son of Jupiter and Latona.
Twin brother to Diana.
Like Jupiter, Apollo was given many names,
the more important being :
Sol, the sun. Nomius, law.
Helios, the sun. Paean, song.
Phoebus, shining light and life.
Cynthius.
Delphinius.
Didymaeus, a twin.
Agineus.
Pythius, serpent, wisdom.
There were four Apollos.
1. Son of Vulcan, fire, judgment, opinion.
2. Son of Corybantes, priest.
3. Son of Jupiter, God.
4. Born in Arcadia and called Nomius, law.
This is most significant—fire, which means judg
ments, the priesthood, and God the law, execution.
Juno, youth, gives birth to twins. Apollo, the
28 Christianity and Mythology
Christianity and Mythology 29
destroyer, and Diana, safety, equivalent to a threat
and a bribe.
These names readily respond to the Ecclesiastical
code.
Apollo is represented as a comely youth, and is
called Sol, meaning the sun.
To Apollo is accredited the invention of physic,
music, poetry and rhetoric, therefore, he is sup*
posed to preside over the muses.
Many very pretty and fabulous stories are found
revealing the adventurous life of this handsome God.
Every authority agrees that Apollo represents
the sun, and his twin sister, Diana, represents the
moon.
This makes it well to scrutinize the sun, to see
why all these fake religions attempt to make of it
a living hero and a God.
The Sun, named Sol,
Reveals all things by his light. When the sun
arises he puts out all other lights, and is supreme
ruler of the day. Day means joy and prosperity.
This makes it plain why all religious systems
regard the sun as the supreme God or father of
light.
Christ, the alleged son of God, declares : "I am
the light of the world." Thus Christ on earth
personifies God, the sun in heaven.
In the Mythological play, Hyperion was the father
of the Sun; his mother, logically is unknown, and
this is one of the weak points in the Hebrew wor
ship of the Sun. It is admitted that the Hebrew
God, and that is the Christian God, has an unknown
30 Christianity and Mythology-
ancestry back of him, therefore, he is not the "father
of all," or himself "all in all," but must have been
begotten and born like other beings.
It is alleged the sun is nephew to Aether, who
is named the universal father, easily identified as
the all permeating atmosphere or medium. This
is important, inasmuch as one of the Greek titles
for Zeus, the Greek name for Jupiter was Aether.
Pan means universal, and is the son of Aither or the
Aether.
The Persian Sol, the ruler of the Universe, is
Mithras, and they called the sun, Mithra. Ezra
1, 8 recognizes Mithra, called a rock. Moses iden
tifies rock with God. (Deut. 32:18).
The Egyptians called the Sun Horus, God of
the day, from which name we derive the word hour,
one of the parts into which the sun divides the day.
Again we are reminded that the sun, which is
the Hebrew-Christian God, is not an original be
ing, for he is the son of Osiris and Isis.
Horus also is Harpocrates, the God of silence
and secrecy —a beautiful youth.
The scepter of Horus has an eye on the top
of it signifying that the sun sees everything, and
that all things are seen by his light.
The home or hours, are the daughters of Sol the
sun, and Chronos, time.
The Children of the Sun
Phaeton, who attempted to drive his father's
chariot and losing control, set the heavens and the
earth on fire.
Jupiter to stop the conflagration struck Phaeton
out of the chariot with thunder, and cast him into
Christianity and Mythology 31
the river Po, darkness. The North American In
dians called water Po. Chinese for lake is Po.
Our own—now antique —vehicle, called Phaeton,
is derived from this name.
Other children of the sun were :
Lampethusa, Lampctia, and Phacthusa, sisters
to Phaeton, were turned into poplar trees, because of
their grief for him. Before getting too far away
from Horus, Belus and Nimrod, as representatives
of sun-worship, we must examine their significance.
The word city, which naturally means an as
sembly of citizens, is used very early in Genesis
to conceal some of the most sinister Ecclesiastic
intrigues. Horus is named the God of secrecy and
silence. The same as Harpocrates. He is the son
of Osirus and Isis, Egyptian Gods.
It is said that Nimrod is a city builder. His
cities very quickly reveal the significance of the word
city as a symbolic term.
The beginning of Nimrod's Kingdom was Babel,
meaning mixture and confusion, and Ercch. mean
ing healthy, and Accad, meaning a fortress, and
Calneh, meaning consummation, in the land of Shi-
nar, meaning change of the city. Shaking out—
very plainly, change of the city here means change
of conditions.
Here is a plain definition of city ; it means a con
dition which involves the masses of people.
Let us analyze these cities to see exactly the
bearing they may have on a progressive exploita
tion.
The Greek form of Babel is Babylon. Now, it
is an evident fact, that Babylon long preceded Chris
32 Christianity and Mythology
tianity. It was the capital city of the Great Baby
lonian Empire, which gave to the world much of its
scientific knowledge. In 2nd Chron. 33:11, Baby
lon is the capital of Assyria, happiness, chief home
of the Jews. Jew is an abbreviation of Judah,
meaning praise.
In Revelation 14:8, Babylon types the power
of Rome. Thus it is always a symbol of a condi
tion or state and generally of confusion.
Of the cities of Erech and Accad, nothing is said,
beyond the statement, that, Nimrod established
them. But Calneh or Calno is of much importance.
"Is not Calno, (consummation), as Carchemish?
(the fortress of Chemosh, sun-worship). Is not
Hamath, (anger), as Arpad? (that makes his bed).
Is not Samaria (prison) as Damascus? (a sack full
of blood). (Isaiah 10:9).
Does this sound like city building?
We previously learned that Belus, king of the
Babylonians, was identical with Nimrod, and typified
the sun. Nimrod also means rebellion, which natur
ally engenders mixture and confusion. It is signifi
cant that, in the Ecclesiastic code, secrecy is per
sonified in Chorazin, a city located on the coast of
Galilee, meaning revolution, which naturally fol
lows rebellion.
In the code also, silence is personified in Dumah,
a son of Ishmael, meaning supplication, prayer,
hence, silent prayer.
We find another personification of secrecy in
rahbi, the spy of Naphtali, comparison, likeness.
Horns as hour, becomes the first division of the
Christianity and Mythology 33
Jewish day of morning, noon and evening. Morning
means the rising sun.
Horus is also called Hor. Mount Hor is where
Aaron was stripped of his garments and died.
(Num. 20). This is significant. Horus or Hor
is the revealing sun. Hor means Hill, signifying
school, place of enlightenment. Aaron means en
lightenment. Hori means cave-dwellers , those who
live in darkness. Continuing with the children of the
sun.
Circe, a sorceress, poisoned her husband.
Pasiphae, wife of Minos, King of Crete, loved
an officer named Taurus, meaning bull, and gave
birth to a monstrosity named Mino-Taurus, or
Minotaur. A niece and nephew of the sun were
Byblos and Caunus. Very likely the story of Moses
being, placed in an ark in the bullrushes of the Nile
has to do with the story of Osiris and Byblos in a
similar story.
Mercury.
He is always pictured with a cheerful countenance,
with wings on his hat and his shoes. He carries
a rod in his hand, also winged, and having two ser
pents coiled about it. This is called the Caduceus.
When he converses with the celestial, his face is
clear and bright, but when he converses with the in
fernal Gods, his face is black. He is called the
messenger of the Gods, and the special messenger
of Jupiter.
He was patron of commerce and gain, and presid
ed over eloquence and invented weights and
measures.
Christianity and Mythology
Christianity and Mythology 35
He invented the lyre, which he traded to Apollo
for the Caducous.
He was an accomplished thief, stealing the bow
and quiver of Apollo, the trident of Neptune, the
girdle of Venus, the sword of Mars and the tools
of Vulcan.
Mercury typifies the character chosen to repre
sent the Jews in the Hebrew scheme.
Finding trade more profitable than grazing, he
became the God of trade and traders and the God
of persuasive speech. In the Christian scheme the
Jews give up grazing for Canaan, trading.
Cunning and roguery made him the protector of
rascals and thieves.
It was no compliment to Paul that he was called
Mercury at Lystra. (Acts 14:12). Lystra means
that dissolves or disperses. It was in Lyeaonia. a
place full of wolves. The wolf was the -dread of
shepherds and symbolized interference 'with the
church work which Paul represented. Paul means
worker. Therefore, when the people of Lystra
called Paul Mercury, they meant he was a cunning
rogue, protecting rascals and thieves.
Mercury was the son of Jupiter and Maia. hence,
it was an intimation that Barnabas was Paul's fath
er. Jupiter and Maia are equal to Joseph and Mary.
Mercury is the God of merchandizing, and God
is called a merchant. Hosea 12:7; also Matt. 13:45.
Christ is called God's messenger, Mai. 3:1.
Mythology is a universal system long preceding
anything Christian.
Pan means universal, all, and Maia is Maya.
These Gods were adored in Central America and
36 Christianity and Mythology
Mexico when those countries were first discovered
by Europe, and there is strong evidence to support
the theory, that, this is a part of the Ancient Nip
pon or Japanese religious system, long antedating
the Christian religion.
Ja-pan is Jah, Jehovah, and Pan, universal, and
Nippon means "Fountain or source of Light," the
sun, again vindicating the universal sun-worship.
Pan was the God of the shepherds, huntsmen, and
rural folk. Christ is called a shepherd. Zeus is
the Greek form of Jupiter, ruling over Air, Earth
and Sky. Jupiter is the Roman form of Zeus,
cloud-gatherer, mighty thunderer and God of the
broad light of day, the ruler and preserver of the
world, and the father of Gods and men. The Rom
ans always tried to excel the Greeks with their
own Gods.
Jupiter and Maia allegedly are the parents of
Mercury, as Joseph and Mary are the adopted par
ents of Jesus, "the light of the world."
It seems to us logical, that, the Universal God
Pan, having evoluted into the Roman. Jupiter. Maia
could easily have become Mere or Mary, the mis
tress of the sea, and signifying rebellion, and be
come the mother of Jesus, who declared he came
to bring a sword.
The principal theme of the alleged Jewish his
tory is merchandizing and trading, and that of the
Christians warfare. Canaan, merchandizing and
trading, is the Christian bribe to induce the Jews
to surrender religion and legislative aspirations to
the Ecclesiastical enterprise, with the promise of
protection in the monoply of commerce.
Christianity and Mythology 37
Paul, the church worker, is named Mercury, the
God of Commerce. (Acts 14:12). It is interesting,
too, that Barnabas, who accompanied Paul, is Jo
seph, signifying increase, and he was named Jupiter,
and Joseph is the adopted father of Jesus.
Jesus is the Greek form of Joshua. /o=increase,
+5"/jMa=wealth, is increased wealth, the Saviour
of both the Jews, and the Christian enterprise.
Hence we are of the opinion that Jupiter and
Maia may be equated with Joseph and Mary. This
is further borne out by Juno, the female Jupiter,
being called, the "blessed virgin Juno" and Mary
is called the "blessed virgin Mary." Mary holds
the same position towards Joseph that Maia holds
toward Pan and Jupiter. Juno is the Goddess of
childbirth, and "Mary and the child" are the first
emblem in the Christian church.
In like manner Jupiter may be extended to Jew-
peter, making the Jewish system the rock upon
which the Christian system is founded.
Pater means rock, or Ju-piter, peter. The French
for rock is pierre, Pather fire. Petra is Greek for
rock, and Patera is Latin for a disc or circle signi
fying the sun. St. Patrick is St. Pat-rock—or Peter
—rock. These all blend into papa and pope, both of
which mean father.
Under the subject Mercury, the God of Com
merce, we must recognize, that, commerce in worldly
and "carnal" things is the salvation of the Jews,
and a well defined commerce in evil and crime is
the salvation of the Christian enterprise. The sale
of indulgences in crime saved St. Peters in Rome.
That Mercury symbolizes the common classes is
38 Christianity and Mythology
made plain by the fact, that, he swept the rooms
where the Gods supped, and made the beds, and
underwent other trials of servitude making him
an inferior servant of the Gods. He was, in this
capacity called Camillis. Anciently, boys and girls
under age were called Camilli, the same name after
wards being given to young men and maid servants
who attended the priests.
This clearly takes the dignity and romance out
of the high sounding name, messenger of the Gods,
and identifies Mercury as any form of servant con
tributing to the lordly class. The Greeks called
Mercury Hermes, which, in the Ecclesiastical code,
means gain, and refuge. In his salutations, Romans
16:14, Paul recommends Hermes, gain, which cor
roborates the commercial character of the Christian
scheme as symbolized by Jo-\-shua.
In the art of theft Mercury excelled all others,
and is the prince and god of thieves. He desired
to steal the thunder from Jupiter but feared it
might burn him, a warning that commerce should
not adopt the same methods as the church.
The next God of importance
is,
Bacchus, God of wine and revelry, and he
is
some God, referred to in Acts 37:34, as Dionysius
the Areopagite, meaning
a
member of the tribunal
at Athens called the Areopagus.
Areopagus means the hill
of
Mars, where the
Athenian court of justice sat.
The Philosophers took Paul before this body to
ask an explanation of his preaching Jesus,
a
strange
God, (Acts 17),
a
perfectly proper and legitimate
act on the part of the Athenians.
Christianity and Mythology 39
40 Christianity and Mythology
This, evidently, was the beginning of the Chris
tian propaganda in Greece.
Jupiter was in love with Semele. Semele is the
Hebrew Shemei, meaning fame. One of the mean
ings of Shem is fame.
The fable connected with this is very similar to
the fake stories found in the Apocrypha. He vis
ited her in disguise and she exacted from him a
promise to grant* one request, and that was that
Jupiter should visit her in all his glory and majesty,
which he was bound to do. He put on all his
terrors of thunder and lightning and entered Semele's
house. Her mortal body could not stand the shock,
and she perished. The thunder struck her down
and stupified her, and the lightning reduced her to
ashes —thus does power destroy fame.
This is identical with the Christian romance, il
lustrating the terrible powers of God, but both must
borrow their powers from visible nature.
Bacchus like Jupiter and Apollo had many names.
In the Greek the word means to revel, and in
cludes the company of wild women, called Thyades
or priestesses of Bacchus, and Maenades, meaning
madness and folly. Bacchus is the emblem of wine.
He was called:
Biformis, meaning both young and old.
Brisacus, because he invented brisa from grapes
and honey.
Bromius, cracking of lightning and noise of
thunder.
Bimater, because he had two mothers, the one
being Semele, fame, and the other the thigh of
Jupiter. The thigh signifies an oath of obedience.
Christianity and Mythology 41
(Gen. 24:2.) By the Greeks he is called Bugenes,
born of an ox.
Doemon bonus, "good angel" honoured with the
last glass.
Dithyrambus, son of Semele and Jove, means
Bacchus, son of Semele and Jupiter. The real
monarch of the heavens in the mythology of both
Greece and Rome is Jupiter (zeus-pater, father-
Jove).
Dionysius or Dionysus, from Jupiter, who limped
when Bacchus was in his thigh.
Emus, or Evous, "alas son."
Evi means desire.
Evan, from the acclamation of the Bacchantes,
who were called Evantes. Eva means living.
Euchius, because Bacchus fills his glass.
Eleleus and Elcus, to animate soldiers.
Iaccus, drunken noise.
Lenorus, because wine palliates sorrow.
Liber Pater, the deliverer liberty. This suggests
the Christian idea of a God as father of all.
Lyceus, wine frees the mind from cares, and
renders the speech free.
Myctilius, because his celebrations were in the
night.
Rectus, because he taught a king of Athens to
dilute his wine with water. Men who staggered
under pure wine grew straight under diluted wine.
Thyoneus, his mother was sometimes called Thyo.
Triumphns, because his soldier's cried out this
name when he conquered.
The acts of Bacchus are practically unlimited, he
42 Christianity and Mythology
doing about all that Jupiter, Apollo and Mercury
did.
Many religious festivals were held in the honor
of Bacchus. The use of wine in the Sacraments
of the Christian church is a remnant of the Baccha-
nation sacraments and revelries.
The Bacchinalia or Orgia, were the feasts of
Bacchus among the Romans, performed in the most
scandalous manner by men and women and young
boys and girls, till the senate abrogated this festival.
Now we may examine the sense of the fable of
Bacchus.
He is an emblem of Nimrod, who is Belus, the
Babylonian Jupiter.
Bacchus and Barchus are the same, and the son of
Chus, that is, Nimrod. Bacchus is called Nebrades
which is identical with Nimrodus. Moses named
Nimrod a great hunter. Bacchus is called Zagreus,
meaning a hunter.
Nimrod presided over the vines and the best
wines, where he was the first king of Babylon,
meaning mixture. He built Erech, health —Accad,
sparkle —Calneh, culmination, in the land of Shinar,
shaking out, change of him who sleeps. Out of
that land went Asher, happiness.
Nimrod means rebellion, of course rebellion puts
happiness out of the land.
A logical belief is, that, Bacchus is Moses. It
is said by some that Bacchus was born in Egypt,
oppression and trouble, as was Moses.
He was shut up in an Ark and cast upon the
waters as was Moses.
Christianity and Mythology 43
The surname of Bimatur, which belongs to
Bacchus, may be ascribed to Moses, who had two
mothers, one by nature and one by adoption, as did
Bacchus. They were both alleged to be beautiful
men brought up in Arabia, a mixture of peoples.
Both had women in their armies. Orpheus di
rectly styles Bacchus a lawgiver, and calls him
Moses, and attributes to him two tables of the law.
Bacchus was called Bicornis; and, accordingly, the
face of Moses appeared double horned when he
came, down from the mountain where he had spoken
to God. As snakes were sacrificed, and a dog was
given to Bacchus as a companion; so Moses had
his companion Caleb meaning a dog in the Hebrew,
and he was always juggling serpents.
As the Bacchar brought water from a rock, by
striking it with their thyrsi, and the country, wher
ever they came, flowed with wine, milk, and' honey ;
so the land of Canaan, meaning merchandizing and
trading, into which Moses conducted the Israelites,
not only flowed with milk but also with wine, the
grapes growing in such large clusters it required
two men to carry a single bunch on a staff be
tween them. Moses also caused water to gush
forth from the rocks by striking them with his rod.
Bacchus dried up the rivers Orontes and Hydas-
pes, by striking them with his thyrsis, and passed
through them as Moses passed through the Red Sea.
A very remarkable corroboration occurs in Judith
1 :16, in the Apocryphal Scriptures. The Hydaspes
is named as a river in India. The word means
Watery. In the Eccleciastical code, water means
ordinances, and India means the law. In the Egyp
44 Christianity and Mythology
tian, Mo means water and Moses is the law-giver,
drawn out of the multitude.
A little ivy-stick thrown down by one of the
Bacchar upon the ground, crept like a dragon and
twined itself about an oak, as Moses cast his rod
before Pharoah, and it was turned into a serpent.
Oak means a strong man of rank and power. The
serpent symbolizes wisdom.
Bacchus wrestled with Pailene, to whom he
yielded, as Jacob wrestled with the man at Peniel,
meaning vision of God, and received the name Israel.
(Gen. 32.)
The Greeks at Troy found an ark that was sacred
to Bacchus, which when Euripidus had opened, and
viewed the statute of Bacchus laid therein, he was
presently struck with madness. In the second book
of Kings is found the fable related, that, the Beth-
shem-ites were destroyed by God, because they
looked with too much curiosity into the Ark of the
covenant. Who can successfully refute this evi
dence of wilful plagiarism from ancient mythology?
Bethshemish means the house of the sun.
Beth-el means the house of God, so named by
Jacob, usurpation.
Shem means fame. Shema means knowledge.
El means God. It seems apparent, therefore, that
this is the point of departure from the ancient sun-
worship, and the beginning of the worship of a
personal god, for, at this point, a bargain between
a human god and Jacob is entered into whereby
Jacob, symbolizing the Jews, is promised bread and
raiment to stand with the church, he agreeing to pay
ten percentum of his gains to the church. (Gen.
Christianity and Mythology 45
28.) According to Isaiah 23:18, permanent food
and clothing, is the wage of the priesthood.
As Israel, Jacob goes out to take possession of
Canaan, commerce.
Is = light + ra = sun + el = first cause.
Israel = the church of God. Hence, it is the
church of God which goes forth to usurp the power
and control of established governments, and the
church of God rewards the Jews for their support
by giving them control over Canaan, merchandiz
ing and trading.
There is no generic type of Jews; there are as
many types of Jews as there are nations. The
name Jew is a contraction of the word Judah,
meaning to praise, hence we find this type of hu
manity the most fawning, hypocritical class of peo
ple in the world, and they are never found antago
nizing the Christian church.
The house of Jacob is the field of the merchant
and trader. The house of Israel is the Christian
church —they are one and the same under Jacob's
true significance, the supplanter, usurpation by
trickery.
No wonder previously established religions looked
askance at the ark of the covenant —it was the
Holy treasure chest. Covenant means bargain,
agreement. Ark means a chest or receptacle, but
the technical significance- of the word in this bar
gain between the Ecclesiasts and the Jews is, "to
keep off," undoubtedly meaning an agreement to
"keep off," each the other's field, and a warning
against intrusion on the part of outsiders. Jew
is from Ju-dah. Peter is from piter or pater, and
46 Christianity and Mythology
the union of the Jew and Peter becomes the foun
dation of the whole Ecclesiastical-Christian enter
prise, and brings us back to Ju-piter, the father of
Gods and men. Every working individual of the
early church was called a holy father.
Now we have the sinister side of the story of
the Ark of the Covenant, the fabulous journey of
the ark through the wilderness, and the bringing of
it across the Jordan. It first was held in Gilgal, from
whence it was removed to Shiloh. The Israelites
carried it to their camp, where, in an engagement
with the Philistines, the latter carried it away to their
principal city Ashdod, and deposited it in the temple
of Dagon, whose image fell to the ground and was
broken. This merely shows the course of the sys
tem.
Let us check up on this amazingly palpable fake.
Jordan means judgment, descent.
Judgment in this connection means opinion.
Descent means hereditary rule.
Gilgal means revolution.
Shiloh means peace.
Israel means the church of God.
It is important at this point to identify Israel
as the organization of the Christian church. The
house of Israel does not consist of twelve sons at
all. These are mere disguises concealing the tech
nical organization of forces to supplant established
civil government, while the Jews are usurping con
trol of commerce.
Israel is Jacob, meaning the supplanter.
His mother was Rebekah, meaning snare, trap,
trickery.
Christianity and Mythology 47
Reuben, vision, preparation, prophecy
Simeon, hearing, obedience, receiving instructions
Levi joined, restrained, organized priesthood
Judah, praise of the Lord, beginning to preach
Issachar, recompense, pay, support
Zebulun, residence, erecting churches
Dan, judgment, opinion, establishing the court
Joseph, increase, addition
Benjamin, -
establishing protection
Naphtali, wrestling, struggle, the council
Gad, a troop, armed and prepared
Asher, felicitation
Does that look like a human family, or a human
exploitation ?
There is no other explanation of this subtle
scheme but a concealment of a sinister purpose to
secretly usurp the powers of established institutions
to enable the schemers to exploit humanity for
profit and self aggrandizement.
Philistines are village dwellers, difficult to reach,
organize and bring under control. Ashdod means
pillage, theft, a wild open place. Dagon means fish,
a symbol of Christ.
The ark was taken to Kirjath-Jcarim, the place of
woods, and deposited in Sol-om-on's temple, at
Jerusalem, meaning the church of God.
There is a dispute regarding its subsequent lo
cation, but it was allegedly carried to Babylon, mix
ture and confusion.
This is a sinister story told in mystic language,
that only the wise may understand.
The early Christians worshipped Christ as Dag,
a fish. The first form of the Eucharist was the
48 Christianity and Mythology
eating of a fish. Dagh is Hebrew for fish. Daghan
is Hebrew for corn. Dagon also means corn.
Sometimes Dagon is called the "Solar-fish-God" of
the Philistines. Corn and fish were the very essen
tials of life to those who worshipped Dagon. The
course of the Ark merely symoblizes the course of
the church development. The Ark conveniently dis
appeared upon reaching Babylon, mixture.
For many reasons we believe that this Babylon
is none other than America, with its mixture and
confusion of peoples and languages.
It was here that this Hebrew God came to "con
found the languages that they may not understand
one another's speech." "Therefore is the name
called Babel, because the Lord did there confound
the language of all the earth." (Gen. 11).
Earth in the Ecclesiastic code means the produc
ing masses of people.
This diversion has carried us away from Bacchus.
Nevertheless, Bacchus as Moses has a star part in
this play.
These mythological characters are fifteen hun
dred years older than Christianity, therefore it is
folly to intimate that it has been plagiarized from
the Christian scheme. It is a part of the ancient
religious governments, which the Ecclesiasts de
sired to usurp by declaring their God was "God
of all other Gods," thereby admitting the existence
of other Gods. The idea of the Pantheon was to
make it appear that the Christian God had entombed
all other Gods along with the Christian saints, thus
bringing Gods and saints into intimate contact, in
Christianity and Mythology 49
the Christian hell —the grave, and under the con
trol of the fabulous Christian "God of Gods."
Before leaving this part of our subject, we must
call , attention to the peculiar fact, that, the Ark
of the Covenant was, in the beginning, detained
in Gilgal, which means revolution. So did Jesus
Christ, born of rebellion, take refuge in Galilee,
meaning revolution, and by his sojourn in Caper
naum, symbolized the rebellious people seeking
solace in repentance.
Mars.
The God of War, fierce and sour in his aspect ;
terror in his looks and dress ; sits in his chariot,
gloomy and forboding. He is covered with armour,
and brandishes a spear in his right hand, as though
he breathed fire and death, threatening everyone
with ruin and destruction.
Certain animals were consecrated to him because
of their similar characteristics.
The dog for his vigilance.
The wolf for his rapaciousness.
The Raven because he is a follower of the army.
The cock for his watchfulness.
Fear and terror draw his chariot.
Discord goes before him in tattered garments.
Clamour and anger follow behind him.
Here we have a composite portrait of the terrible
Hebrew-Christian God—and war.
The mental being struggling with the physical,
Mars symbolizes the constant warfare within, but
the Ecclesiastical scheme personifies him as a man.
"The Lord thy God is a mighty God and terrible."
(Deut. 7:21).
50 Christianity and Mythology
"God of Gods, and Lord of Lords, a great God,
a mighty and a terrible God." (Deut. 10:17).
"Lord God of heaven, the great and terrible God."
(Neh. 1:5).
"The Lord which is great and terrible." (Neh.
4:14).
"The mighty and terrible God." (Neh. 9:32).
"He has done great and terrible things," (Deut.
10:21).
"He is terrible to the kings of the earth." (Ps.
76:12).
"So terrible was the sight." Moses said, "I ex
ceeding fear and quake." (Heb. 12:21).
This suggested the superior power of the divine
authority over the law.
"For our God is a consuming fire." (Heb.
12:29).
This pictures the terrible Mars as the model for
the Hebrew-Christian God—preeminently a God of
war.
Companion to Mars is the Goddess of war, Bel-
lona. Latin belhim, war, called the wife of Mars.
She typifies the horrors of war and the exciting
of frenzied hate in soldiers. Bel is Baal, meaning
master.
Mars is the son of Jupiter and Juno, Godliness
and Youth.
Mars marries Neri-o. valor and strength.
Neri means lamp. O means perfection.
From Nerio the Claudian family derived the name
of Nero. Claudius means lame.
Paul is admittedly a Jew in Acts 18, being joined
by Jew tentmakers banished from Rome.
Christianity and Mythology 51
Again we find the weakness of humanity taken
advantage of by the church worker. Claudia, mean
ing lamenting, was a female friend of Paul. Claudus
Caesar banished the Jews from Rome. (Acts 18:2).
Ner means lamp ; the circular O is the face of the
sun. Mars is also named Mavors, which gives him
credit for all great human exploits.
The Greeks called him Ares, or Arah, which
means wandering. This is the source of the biblical
Arah.
Showing conclusively, that, Ecclesiasticism draws
upon the Greek Mythology, the Greek name for
Mars is Ares or Arah, and we find in I Chron. 7 :39,
he is an Asherite, son of Vila, a yoke. Arah is
also named in Ezra 2
:5,
in which he is credited with
having 775 children, whereas, in Neh. 7:10
it
says
he! had 652 children. Which of these must we be
lieve? This
is
an example of "every word in the
bible
is
true." They should add to this silly formula,
"excepting errors."
Moreover, in Acts 17:19, 34, the Ecclesiasts
acknowledge the ancient Hill
of
Mars called Are
opagus, as the place where the court
of
justice of
Ancient Athens had its seat. An Areopagite was
a
member of this court. Both words are derived
from the Greek word Ares.
It
was especially
a
place for religious trials. Paul was taken there by
the Epicureans and Stoicks for questioning con
cerning his new doctrine of Jesus, the Christ, as the
risen Saviour. The Greeks knew that he was
preaching the fictitious Hebrew Joshua, under the
Greek name Jesus, Paul being
a
Jew.
It
is
well
authenticated that, Paul did not preach the resur
52 Christianity and Mythology
rection. Joshua means increased wealth as the
Saviour of the church.
The court of the Areopagus was the greatest
example of absolute equity and justice ever known.
If modern courts of justice would make it their
guide all of the scandals of the miscarriage of jus
tice would cease.
Mars was also named Gradivus, meaning sol
dierly stateliness, and dignity.
He was called Quirinus, meaning a spear. This
same name was given to Romulus, when he was
deified by the Romans. That the God Mars pre
ceded Romulus is clear by the fable that Romulus
was the bastard offspring of Mars and the vestal
virgin Ilia. He was called the son of Mars, cor
roborating his fabulous character.
In I Chron. 1 1 :29, we find reference to one
Ilai, meaning exalted, one of the guards of David,
loVe. David also was guilty of the same offense,
when he had Uriah killed in order to take his wife,
by whom he had a bastard child. As usual, the
Romans erected a temple to their plagiarized God,
on Mount Quirinal. This practice of deifying their
exalted persons was the example for the sainting
of "Holy men," by the Christian Church, for extra
ordinary services.
That is the sole merit in the Saintly blather.
However, this throws a glaring light upon the bibli
cal connection with Greek Mythology. The birth
of the Roman son of Mars, Romulus, by a virgin,
becomes a precedent for the fable of the birth of
Jesus by a virgin, Mary, rebellion—along with
numerous others.
Christianity and Mythology 53
Romulus was a ivarrior.
Rome was established by war.
Mary means rebellion.
Christianity was established by rebellion and revo
lution. Jesus took refuge
ini
Galilee, meaning revo
lution, and declared that he had come to bring
"sword," "fire," and "discord," to the world. (Matt.
10:34, 35. Luke 12:49).
David, love,
is
said to be the father of Jesus in
Matt. 1:1, and both were born in Bethlehem, the
house
of
war.
When David had Uriah killed,
it
symbolized the
extinguishing of human learning and intellect, for
Uriah means light. Uri means fire, and fire means
discriminating public opinion, which the Ecclesiasts
suppressed.
This presaged the "dark ages," 486 to 1495, when
all the previous brilliant scientific and philosophical
learing was wholly suppressed and humanity was
plunged into abject ignorance. This was the deadly
work of the Christian enterprise in an attempt to
imitate nature, in
a
symbolic religio-political exploita
tion of humanity. The dark age symbolized the
night. In the Ecclesiastical code, darkness means
ignorance, and night means adversity, affliction and
ignorance.
The fabulous Jesus Christ character symbolized
the light
of
a
new day in the Christian world. Christ
is
made to sav, "I am the light of the world." (Jno.
8:12).
Hence, we find all the six creative days in Genesis
beginning with the evening instead of the morning.
Bath-sheba, the wife
of
Uriah, taken by David,
54 Christianity and Mythology
love, symbolized the oath bound priesthood. Sheba
means oath.
Thus the priesthood of light, learning and intel
lect, is espoused to love, and begets Sol-om-on,
compensating wisdom. Each syllable of the name
Solomon means the Sun as the source of all revela
tion, and the sun is recognized as the "light of the
world." Jesus Christ is the symbol of the crucified
humanity, cast down into affliction, adversity and
abject ignorance, that Ecclcsiasticism might exalt
and glorify itself by resurrecting it. But, the world
knows, by horrible and visible evidence, that, the
church possessed no such power.
Christ is exploited as the "wisdom of God."
(I Cor. 1
:24). Christ is exploited as the "light of
the world." The revealed source of the light of
the world is the visible Sun. Therefore Christianity
is a well defined Sun-worship, personified in the
fabulous Christian characters.
Now we may again examine Mars and the wife
he wedded, Ner-ione. The literal meaning of this is,
the light of the golden ball. We find a remarkable
justification of this in the worship by the Ancient
Caledonian Druids in lona, of a large globular
stone, which they called a claehabrath. These stones
were called "Golden Balls," and the place where
they were worshipped, "Golden Ball Hill." As far
back as religion reaches, men ascended hills to meet
and greet the rising sun, the "Golden Ball" of the
day, which sent down upon the earth his power,
revealing wisdom by his light, which is the "light
of the world."
Ner, as we previously saw, means lamp. lone
Christianity and Mythology 55
or Iona is Ionia—the light of Ionia. In I Mace. 8
:8,
of the Apocrypha, Ionia means India which signifies
the law. The sun rises in the east. India was the
seat of the earliest learning, especially of mysti
cism. Hence, we may conclude, that, Mars, the
God
of
war, united with the learning and law of
the east, and became the precedent model for the
later Jesus Christ character, who, in addition to
declaring himself the "light of the world," also
is
declared to be the "one law giver." (James 4:12).
When Jesus was born in Bethlehem, the house
of
war, wise Magi came from the east to investigate
the new prince
of
the world. Magus means sage,
philosopher, wizard, wisemen; Magi mean priests.
One Pantaenus, one of the alleged early Christian
writers, claimed he had discovered the origin of the
Gospel of Matthew in India. His work was quickly
suppressed, "lost."
The poets dwell upon the love affair between
Mars and Venus. Sol, the sun, tattled to Vulcan,
Venus' husband, and he captured the lovers in an
invisible iron net. Alectryon, Mars' servant, slept,
enabling Vulcan to slip up on them and grab them.
For this fatal fault the servant was turned into
a
cock, for failing to warn his master of the approach
of the rising sun. Ever since, the cock has been
compelled to warn the world of the rising of the
sun by crowing.
This at once identifies the Sun as the Great Lord
of the day, the father
of
light, the revealer of all
that man can understand.
Juno, Junia, youth, the goddess
of
childbirth.
Youth
is
a
Roman friend and kinsman of Paul,
56 Christianity and Mythology
Christianity and Mythology 57
the church worker. (Rom. 16:7). Were it not for
the influence of the church worker upon youth,
Christianity would fail.
In the Sanscrit, Yoni is Goddess of the womb.
Juno is called the female Jupiter, and Plutarch
says, that, "the Egyptians gave the name of Jupiter
to the breath." This would make him the Holy
Ghost, which means the breath.
The month of May now dedicated to the virgin
Mary, was likewise dedicated to the "Blessed Virgin
Juno."
The titles of "Our Lady," "Queen of Heaven,"
and "Mother of God," were borne by Isis the im
maculate.
Mary stands as the symbol of the church.
The "Star of the Sea" was a title of Isis, and
Mary is called Stella Maris, meaning "Star of the
sea."
There is hardly a nation whose history has come
down to us, that does not record the existence of
some Saviour God, born of an immaculate virgin,
and, not infrequently, the virgin mother is named
Maria or an equivalent word for Mary. All these
names are related to Mare, mere, mer, the sea—
the mother element of the earth.
In the Ecclesiastic code, Mary means rebellion.
Thus Juno and Mary are identical. Rebellion is a
logical Mother for Mars, the God of war.
And Jesus, with the declaration that he brings
to the earth the "sword, fire and discord," is a logical
son of rebellion.
Juno is Queen of the Gods, and both wife and
sister to Jupiter. Her father was Saturn, and her
58 Christianity and Mythology
mother was Ops. Saturn is identified as Cronus,
time. Ops or Opts, riches, opulent, plenty. It is
true, it only required time and increased wealth for
the Christian scheme to succeed.
. A curious thing
is,
this name was also given to
Juno, making her, her own mother. Juno was born
in the island of Samos, which, in the Ecclesiastic
code, means high, exalted. Paul, the worker, vis
ited there.
Samos means sandy, whirling, and symbolizes
conditions signified by Palestine, Arabia and Egypt.
Palestine means the land of sojourners, covered,
concealed.
Arabia means
a
mixture
of
peoples.
Egypt means oppression, trouble, grief.
It
is
logical that this typifies the field of operation
for the church worker.
The servant of Juno, youth,
is
Iris. Iri is watch
fulness, the rainbow, messenger
of
the Gods, but
more particularly of Juno.
Eros
is
the Greek God of love —also called Cupid
and Amor. The Christian convert, Erastus means
beloved. (Romans 16:23).
Iris means a flag or standard, meaning the living
almighty, also meaning
a
stone. Stone reappears
in standard, meaning the "enduring brilliant sun-
disc."
Iris
is
the daughter of the giant Thaumus and
Electra, the Pleiades, the seven stars, mentioned
in Job 38:31, and Amos 5:8.
The idea of national flags, with various arrange
ments of colors,
is
a distinct reminder of Iris, the
servant of Juno, the Queen
of
the Gods, and this
Christianity and Mythology 59
is one of the strange customs of civilized peoples
today —thoughtless humanity.
Iris is the messenger of Juno, and comes from
heaven only. She is the Goddess of discord.
Mercury is the messenger of Jupiter and comes
from both heaven and hell.
Heaven is the Ecclesiastical government, and hell
is the grave, a logical combination.
We should call attention to Amor as a name ap
plied to Eros the God of love. The Amorites or
Amori, were the bitter, rebellious people of Canaan
before the alleged Hebrew conquest. (Gen. 10:16).
Canaan means merchandizing, trading.
The children of Juno by Jupiter are, Vulcan, the
God of fire, the fire of the earth, as distinguished
from the fire of the sun, or of lightning. "Our God
is a consuming fire." (Heb. 12:29).
Mars—we have already analyzed him.
Hebe, the Goddess of youth, wife of Hercules.
In II Mace, 4:19, of the Apocryphal scriptures,
Hercules is mentioned as the "God Melkart."
Mercury cut off the head of Argus who had a
hundred eyes. Juno turned Argus into a peacock
and scattered his eyes about the tail of the bird.
Juno is Junia, meaning youth. Juno was extremely
jealous.
Juno was called Argiva, who sacrificed in her
honor.
She was called Bunea and had a temple at Cor
inth, meaning satisfied, adorned.
Coprotina, after the day on which maid-servants
celebrated her festival under a fig-tree. (Caprificus).
60 Christianity and Mythology
She was named Curls or Curitis, from her spear,
which in the language of the old Sabines, was curis.
She was called Cingula, from her girdle as pa
troness of marriage. We have to this day a re
minder of Juno's girdle in the common word Sur
cingle from cingulum, meaning a belt.
She was called Dominduca and Interduca, from
bringing home the bride to her husband's house,
meaning introduction of the bride into her domicile.
She was called Februalis, Februata, Februa, or
Februla, because sacrifices were made to her in the
month of February —her festival being celebrated
on the same day with Pan's feasts, when the priests
of Pan, called Luperci, ran naked through the city,
striking the women with Juno's cloak (that
is,
with
the skin of
a
goat) thus purifying them.
Pan means universal, all, the God
of
Shepherds.
Lupercus was the God
of
fecundity. She was
called Egeria, because she promoted the faculty
of
childbirth.
She
is
called Juga, the Goddess
of
marriage.
An altar in Rome was named Jugarius and per
sons were married there.
Conjugal
is
a
modern word from this name.
She
is
called Socigena, because she assisted in
the coupling of the bride and bridegroom.
Hygiene
is
a
modern word from the same root.
Hygeia was the Goddess
of
health. She was named
Lacinia from
a
temple dedicated to her.
Lucina and Lucilia, from the grave, in which
she had
a
temple typifying the light of this world,
into which infants are brought by her.
Also Nuptialis
;
when they sacrificed to her under
Christianity and Mythology 61
Pan
62 Christianity and Mythology
this name, they took the gall out of the victim, and
cast it behind the altar ; to signify that there ought
be no gall or anger between those who are married.
Aaron cast the blood behind the altar.
There is no doubt but what the numerous tricks
of the alleged Jewish sacrifices, under the Mosaic
dispensation, were variations of this ancient altar
practice.
Juno is called Opigigena because she gives help
to women in labour.
She was called Parthcnos the virgin, because it
was believed that a fountain in which she washed
herself every year renewed youth and beauty. The
same name is applied to Minerva. The vulgar use
of the swaddling clothes of Jesus is a vulgar imi
tation of this figure.
She was called Perfecta, for marriage was es
teemed the perfection of human life.
Also Regina, Queen.
In Genesis 11:29, Nahor took Milcah, meaning
Queen, for his wife. The title of Queen antedates
Christian history. Queen merely means woman.
In modern times much stress is put upon the title,
such as Queen-regent; Queen-consort, and Queen-
mother.
Regent means a governor in the absence of the
true sovereign.
Consort means the xvife of a reigning sovereign.
Queen-mother, the Queen-dowager ; the widow
of a king, and the mother of the heir to the throne.
This royal blaa is especially popular today.
Minerva or Pallas. Min is equivalent to the
•Egyptian Pan, and may also be equated with Man.
Christianity and Mythology 6
Minerva
64 Christianity and Mythology
The Goddess of wisdom, war and the liberal arts.
The Roman name for Minerva is Athene. The Ec-
clesiasts recognize Athens as the city of Athene or
Minerva.
It is claimed that Minerva sprang full-armed from
the head of Jupiter; hence, she is clothed with ar
mour, with a head piece of gold, a golden breast
plate, a lance and shield. In peace and war she
was, a presiding Goddess. The Saxon Deity Ir-min
was the male aspect of Minerva.
Minerva is named the blue-eyed Goddess. Man,
mens, mon all trace back to the sanscrit man-as,
mind. Minerva corresponds to the very ancient
Isis.
Still farther back in this mythology, Ushas sprang
from the head of Dyaas. as Minerva is said to have
sprung from the head of Jupiter or Zeus. Dyaus
means the life of the earth. Three thousand: years
ago a Hindoo poet wrote of Ushas, "daughter of
the sky." She is identified as Eos of the Greeks,
and Aurora of the Latins in later periods.
Ushas merely symbolizes the dawn as the Usher
of the day. Ursa is Latin for bear. The Ursuline
Nuns took their cue from this ancient Goddess.
The shining Ushas is identical with the Egyptian
Isis. The vedic man in the sun corresponds to
the generic term Adam, meaning the warm sun.
Adim, in the Sanscrit, means first, beginning.
This is specifically the Hindoo origin of the Chris
tian Adam.
Minerva is pictured as the inventress of war.
On her shield she is pictured as Medusa with her
head of serpents.
Christianity and Mythology 65
Minerva symbolizes the theory, that, war is only
made that peace may follow —an imbecilic modern
theory, born of the meanest human passions and
instincts.
Minerva is named Athens in Greece.
Paul preached there on Mar's Hill. (Acts 17:19-
22).
Athena is called Minerva, and her statue stands
in the temple at Athens. Minerva is also called
a minis, diminishing. She being the Goddess of
-war, diminshes the number of people and deprives
families of their heads, and depletes the population
of cities. Her looks threaten violence and inspire
terror —"war is hell."
The Greeks call her Athena, because she had no
mother, being born out of her father's head—war
is conjured out of the minds of men.
By the story of Minerva, the poets intend to
represent wisdom; that is true and skilful knowledge,
joined with discretion and prudence —but all this
has been perverted under the Christian exploitation.
Minerva is born of the brain of Jupiter, from
whence sprang the sciences, for the good of men,
that is, from the fountain of divine wisdom—the
human brain.
Minerva invented the art of spinning, to prevent
young women from indulging in idleness. For which
reason the spindle and distaff were carried before
the bride when she was brought to her husband's
house. Sometimes it was the custom to throw the
spindle and distaff into the grave with them when
they died.
66 Christianity and Mythology
Venus.
Goddess of beauty, and mother of love. The
Greek Aphrodite.
All that pictures joy, happiness, and physical
beauty, is Venus, Goddess of Graces. She sprang
from the froth of the sea, and was cradled in a
sea-shell.
She was married to Vulcan, the God of fire, as
distinguished from the fire of the sun, or of the
lightning.
She was a stranger or foreigner to the Romans,
hence, the name Venus does not appear in the Ec
clesiastical code. Venus was first worshiped by
the Egyptians, and from the Egyptians she was
translated to the Greeks, and from them to the
Romans.
Amica was a name given her by the Athenians ;
because she joined lovers.
Barbata was a name given to her by the Romans,
because she restored the hair which had fallen out
of the heads of Roman women.
Cypris was a name given her, because she was
first carried there in a shell when born of the sea.
Cyprus means fairness.
Ridens is the name given her because she was
born laughing, hence,' she is Goddess of mirth.
Hortensis, because she looks after the seeds and
plants in gardens.
Venus for herbs, Ceres for bread, and Neptune
for fish. Venus is called Marina, because she was
formed of the froth of the sea. Mary comes from
the same root. Mar, mer, mare, Mary. The sister
Christianity and Mythology 67
Venus
68 Christianity and Mythology
of Moses was Miriam. Several other names are
given Venus, usually applying to places.
The companions of Venus, the Goddess of love,
were, Hymenaeus, presiding over marriage; Urania,
who rescued virgins who were carried away ; Cupid,
the God of love, and Adonis of manly beauty. In
I Tim. 1 :20. Hymenaeus is named a pervert and
blasphemer, also II Tim. 2:17.
Latona.
Goddess of dark nights.
Beloved of Jupiter to whom she bore Apollo
and Diana.
Apollus means destroyer. Diana means safety,
in the Ecclesiastic code, showing their recognition.
In the Greek, Apollo is God of the sun, music,
poetry and medicine. Diana is Goddess of hunt
ing and of chastity.
Aurora.
Goddess of the morning.
Daughter of Sol, and mother of the stars and
wind. This clearly identifies Sol as the sun.
Aurora of the Latins, is Eos of the Greeks, and
is identified with the Hindoo Ushas of three thou
sand years ago. Aurora is derived from Aurum
gold, and symbolizes the golden beauty of the dawn.
Saturn.
He is probably the Greek Cronus, and the father
of Jupiter, for he is pictured as a decrepid old man.
Cronus is time.
There was no servitude in Saturn's time. In
modern astronomy, the sixth major planet, Saturn,
is called the old man of the system. The reign
of Saturn was called the golden age, an age of
Christianity and Mythology 69
70 Christianity and Mythology
peace and prosperity, with neither laws nor judges.
Therefore it antedates the Mosaic period.
The historical significance of this Saturn charac
ter is found in the biblical story of Noah.
It is said that Saturn was Nimrod, the founder
of the Empire of Babylon, but the better authority
identifies Belus as Nimrod, and Saturn as Noah.
In the time of Noah the whole earth spoke one
language; and the ancient mythologists say that
the beasts understood this language. And it is
said, that in Saturn's age there was but one language,
which was common to men and brutes.
Noah is called in the Hebrew language a. man of
the earth, that is, a husbandman. The same scrip
tural language speaks of a man of war; a strong
man a man of arms, a , murderer, a man of blood,
an orator a man of words, a shepherd a man of
cattle. Saturn is in the same sense called a man
of the earth.
To Noah is accredited the first planting of vine
yards. The same is attributed to Saturn.
Noah was once overcome with wine. So did
Saturn drink excessively, being called the protector
of drunkards.
Noah cursed his son, Ham, because he saw his
father's nakedness.
Saturn made a law that whoever saw the Gods
naked should be punished.
Saturn and his wife Rhea, and those with them,
were born of Oceanus and Thetis, meaning water
and a sea-goddess.
Noah and all that were with him, were in a man
Christianity and Mythology 71
ner new born out of the waters of the deluge by
the help of the ark.
Noah preserved the human race by a ship. Saturn
came to Italy in a ship.
Noah foretold the coming of the flood. Saturn
foretold great quantities of rain and an ark built
in which men, birds and creeping things should all
sail together.
Saturn devoured all but three of his sons.
Noah may be said to have condemned all man
kind excepting his three sons, because he foretold
that they would be destroyed in the flood, and in
the scripture the prophets are said to "do the things
which they fortell shall be done hereafter."
It is practically agreed that Noah's son, Ham,
Cfiam, is Jupiter, the son of Saturn. The Hebrew
name Ham is called Cham, for which the Egyptians
had the name Amoun, heat, and the Africans had
Ammon or Hammon. Hammon means warm
springs. Ham means hot.
Cham was the youngest son of Noah. Jupiter was
the youngest son of Saturn. Jupiter is the Lord of
the heavens. Ham was the Lord of Africa, the
nearest to heaven, because of its attitude toward the
planets. Japheth is the same with Neptune. Shem
is identified as Pluto of the Ancients.
Saturn is time. Our days, months and years are
the children of Time, and, as Saturn swallows and
throws up his children, so does time swallow and
reproduce the days, months and years.
No seriously thinking person can believe other
wise than, that, the story of Noah, the flood, and
Shem, Ham and Japheth was originally plagiarized
72 Christianity and Mythology
Janus
Christianity and Mythology 73
from the mythological story of Saturn. It would
be preposterous to say, that, mythology, fifteen cen
turies older than Christianity, would have plagiar
ized from the fabulous Hebrew scripture which is
the basis for the Christian scheme, and which liter
ally teems with error and falsehood. Christianity
is a mixture and confusion of plagiarized creeds
and doctrines. The mythologies are beautiful ex
amples of consistency and romancing.
Janus.
The two-faced God.
Son of Apollo, and King of Italy.
He is also named as the son of Coelus, the most
ancient of the Gods and father of Saturn, and
Hecate.
Coelus, also, is called Uranus or heaven. Hecate
is called Diana on earth, and Luna in heaven, and
Hecate or Proserpine, in the lower regions. Diana
was a Roman Goddess. Janus' two faces symbolize
his power to see into the future and the past.
Janus presided over highways, locks and gates.
He was unknown to the Greeks, but was held in
high esteem by the Romans. His temple was always
open in time of mar, and closed in time of peace,
therefore, he was an uncompromising war-lord.
The acknowledgment of Diana in the bible is
found in Acts 19:24-28.
Diana is called the Goddess of light, also safety.
She is the Greek Artemis.
Some believe that the Roman Janus, with his
two faces, symbolizes the east and the west, with
Rome watching both, hence the two-faced God is
typical of the Roman attitude toward the world.
74 Christianity and Mythology
Diana
Christianity and Mythology 75
Janus is the Janitor of the year, and of all the
months; the first of which takes the name January.
Janus is particularly called the father, by the
Romans.
Like all the other Gods, Janus merely portrays
some human attribute, in his case, prudence and
watchfulness, which cause men to look both into
the future and the past. Rome always attempted
to go Greece one better, by giving new names to
the Greek Gods and attributing to them new virtues.
Christianity imbibed this jealous spirit to a degree
of absurdity. There can be little doubt about the
Ecclesiasts having appropriated Bacchus as Moses,
and Saturn as Noah.
Vulcan.
The God of fire, especially the earthy fire, as
distinguished from the heavenly fire and the fire
of the lightning —judgment and vengeance.
He, as a smith, forged thunderbolts for his father,
Jupiter.
He was born of Jupiter and Juno. Being de
formed, he was cast out of heaven, breaking his
leg in the fall to earth, hence, he is lame. He is
called Limnius, because he fell upon the island of
Lemnos.
He was also called Mulcifer, because he worked
in polishing iron.
The first syllable of his name, Vul, is derived
from Volo meaning the will. The word Volcano
is derived from the same root. Volition, volun
tary are other words derived from the Latin Volo.
He married the most beautiful Goddess Venus,
who was untrue to him.
76 Christianity and Mythology
Vulcan
Christianity and Mythology 77
When Vulcan made arms for Jupiter, he gave
him leave to choose out of the Goddesses a wife,
and he chose Minerva, the Goddess of wisdom and
war. He admonished her to refuse him, which she
did.
At the Roman feasts in honor of Vulcan, live
animals were cast into the fire to burn to death.
In all ages Rome has been cruel and heartless, but
subsequent nations have thus sacrificed untold mil
lions of human victims.
It is a fable, that, the first woman was formed
by the hammer of Vulcan, and that every God gave
her some present, whence she was called Pandora,
the first mortal woman. Vulcan made her of clay
and gave her life, and Venus gave her beauty.
Pallas gave her wisdom, Apollo the art of music,
Mercury eloquence.
Jupiter sent Pandora, with a box of troubles to
Prometheus, who refused it. Prometheus the
traditional bringer of fire. He sent her again
with the same box to Epimetheus, the brother of
Prometheus. Out of curiosity, she opened the box
and released in the world endless disease, sin and
trouble. Only hope remained in the box.
Eve, the first woman in Genesis, filled the world
with evil because of disobedience and curiosity. God
also made his first man of clay. Javan, son of
Japheth, means clay.
Vulcan had numerous wicked servants and sons.
Aeolus.
God of the winds.
Son of Jupiter and Acesta or Segesta, Eolus was
a skilful astronomer and philosopher, and under-
78 Christianity and Mythology
Christianity and Mythology 79
stood the names of the winds, and had control over
them. In the Ecclesiastic code winds mean disas
trous wars.
Momus.
The God of mirth, jest, mockery and mimicry, the
fun-loving God.
Has no employment, lives an idle life, but chides
and mocks the other Gods who neglect their duty.
He criticised Neptune, Vulcan and Minerva.
The parents of Momus were Nox, night, and
Sontnus, sleep, the latter being the son of Nox as
well.
Nox was the daughter of chaos, confusion, and
wife of Erebus, God of darkness.
This is the very origin of personifying nature.
Vesta.
Goddess of the hearth and fire, and family life.
Daughter of Cronus, time.
She was the oldest of the Goddesses.
In the Greek she is Hestia.
She was the wife of Coelum or Coclus. who, also,
was called Uranus, or heaven, the most ancient of
the Gods, father of Saturn, the God of agriculture ;
Oceanus, God of the ocean and rivers, and Hyperion,
who had charge of the sun-chariot , Ur—fire. Anus
is Bani, in the Ecclesiastic code, the builder.
Vesta is the same as Terra, the earth, her name
signifying clothing, vestment, the earth being
clothed with verdure, plants and fruits. The an
cient round tables were called vestae, because, like
the round earth, they supplied the necessaries of life.
Our round tables of today are reminders of this
ancient belief.
80 Christianity and Mythology
Christianity and Mythology 81
The ancient Greeks both began and concluded
their sacrifices with Vesta, the mother of all the
Gods. The vestal virgins were the virgins of the
earth. All of which were earthly inventions, born
out of human imagination.
Cybele, mother of the Gods, Magna, later.
Goddess of Cities, and all things which the earth
sustains. She is the earth itself. Her names are
also Ops, Rhea, Dindymene, Berecynthia, and Bona
Dea, and Idaca, Pessinuntia, Magna Deorum Mater,
and sometimes Vesta.
She is called Cybele from the mountain Cybelus
in Phrygia. Her priests used to dance upon their
heads, and act like madmen, fortelling things to
, come, and making a horrible noise. These were
named Galli. They cut and slashed each other and
themselves in their hysterical frenzy.
Cybele was called Ops because she brings help
and assistance to all on earth. Ops was the wife
of Saturn.
The title of Rhea comes from her abundance of
benefits. Her other names come from places where
she was worshiped, or from her beneficient attri
butes.
Her chariot was drawn by a pair of male lions.
Ceres —Goddess of Agriculture.
She is the daughter of Cronus, time, and Rhea,
mother of Gods. Or, Saturn and Ops, meaning
the same.
The brothers of Ceres are Jupiter and Neptune.
They both debauched their sister and she bare them
children. It is most suggestive that Jupiter seduced
82 Christianity and Mythology
Ceres
Christianity and Mythology. 83
his sister by sending to her poppies, intimating that
the use of opium was even then known.
It is a remarkable fact, too, that all religious sys
tems suggest the rankest forms of adultery and for
nication, particular stress being placed upon improper
relations between fathers and daughters, brothers
and sisters, and mothers and sons. The culmination
of this vulgarity is found in the Christian bible,
typical cases being Lot and his two daughters; Judah
and his daughter-in-law, Tamor, and Amnon and
his sister.
The alleged Hebrew scriptures, as set forth in
the old testament, exhibit the grosest immorality on
the part of the principal characters. There is noth
ing in mythology to compare with the vicious exam
ples set by these writings. On their face they are
not intended to teach any moral or ethical lessons.
On the contrary they are precedents to tempt weak
humanity. The present shameful conditions of the
world prove, conclusively, that they have borne
evil fruits.
The Muses.
Nine virgins crowned with palms, and clothed
in decent and becoming dresses.
Here is another remarkable feature found in these
religions. Stress is put upon virgins. Why?
Nature made all females for sexual purposes, and
all are virgins until they begin to function in the
fulfilment of the original purpose.
There is no particular virtue in an immaculate
virgin, for virginity means a sex condition which
is not measured by degrees. The word immaculate
84 Christianity and Mythology
Muses
Christianity and Mythology 85
merely signifies unblemished, unstained, pure, and,
as a last word, a virgin.
The "blessed virgin Juno" and the "blessed vir
gin Mary," meant nothing after they were found
with child. All nature knew they had functioned
as nature had intended.
The muses were mistresses as well as virgins.
They were called the mistresses of all the sciences,
musicians and poets, and governors of the feasts
and solemnities of the Gods. They are the daugh
ters of Jupiter and the Nymph Mnemosyne, the
Goddess of memory.
Caliope presided over rhetoric.
Clio, over glory.
Erate, over love.
Thalia, over gayety.
Melomene, over melody.
Terpsichore, over dancing.
Euterpe, over song.
Polyhymnia, over memory.
Urania, over contemplation.
Themis, Astraea and Nemesis, the Consulting
Goddesses
Themis, Goddess of ceremony.
Astraea, Goddess of justice.
Nemesis, Goddess of vengeance.
The Gods of the Woods
Pan, God of the shepherds.
Silvanus, God of the forest.
The Fauni, oracles to women.
Satyri, attending revelries.
Silenius, tutor of Bacchus —a drunken old fat man.
Priopus, Guardian of Gardens and production.
86 Christianity and Mythology
Aristaeus, presides over trees, honey and oil.
Terminus, God of boundaries.
Hence, Mythology teaches the art and theory of
personification, to inspire human thought and action.
Undoubtedly the art was taught to, or plagiarized
by, the Ecclesiasts.
Diana, Goddess of the woods.
Pales, the Goddess of shepherds.
Flora, Goddess of flowers.
Feronia, Goddess of propagation.
Pomona, Goddess of fruits.
Of the above Pales is especially interesting.
Philes-tine and Pales-tine are the same, in the Ec
clesiastic code, the first meaning village dwellers,
and the latter sojourners. The Jews were itinerant,
nomadic people, hence sojourners, not permanent
dwellers. Pales is the Goddess of nomadic shep
herds.
Rural Deities
Rusina, the Goddess of the country.
Collina, reigns over the hills.
Vallonia, reigns over the valleys.
Hippona, presides over horses and stables.
Bubona, has the care of oxen.
Seta, takes care of the seeds in the earth.
Buncina, the Goddess of weeds.
Occator, God of the harrow.
Sator, God of sowing and raking.
Robigus, God of the festival.
Stercutius, God of manuring.
Proserpine, Goddess of corn.
Nodosus, Goddess of the joints of the stalk.
Volusia, folds the blade around the corn.
Christianity and Mythology 87
V
Flora
88 Christianity and Mythology
Patelina, cares for the corn when it forms.
Flora, presides over the blossom of the corn.
Lactura, cares for the milk in the ear.
Mature, presides over the maturity of the corn.
Hostilina, makes the ears grow even.
Tutelina, has the care of the corn when reaped.
Pilumnus, presides over the kneading and baking.
Mellona, invented the art of making honey.
Fornax, invented the grinding of wheat.
Could a more beautiful system be conceived?
Compare this with the Christian idea of a single,
personal God, filled with hatred and vengeance and
eternal accusation of sin.
Gods of the Sea
Neptune.
King of the waters, father of rivers.
His chariot is a giant escolop-shell, drawn by
sea-horses, half fish and half horse. His name is
derived from the word Nubo which means to cover.
He is the son of Saturn and Ops.
His mother preserved him from the jaws of
Saturn who ate up all his male children—time swal
lows all.
In the Greek Neptune is called Poisedon, because
he prevents our feet from walking on the water.
Man cannot trample the powers of the sea.
Triton.
Son of Neptune by Amphytrite, Goddess of the
sea. He soothes the sea.
Oceanus, a sea God, the father of the animals,
all animal life springing from him.
Several other sea Gods help to preside over the
waters.
Christianity and Mythology 89
90 Christianity and Mythology
Monsters of the Sea
Scylla, who was made a terrible sea-monster
by a love potion administered by Glaucus.
Chorybdis, a dangerous whirlpool near the coast
of Sicily.
The Infernal Deities
In the confines of hell.
The inhabitants are care, sorrow, disease, fright,
famine, want, labour, sleep, force, fraud, strife,
war, old age, and death. The Christian scheme
places mankind in this hell.
Charon.
An old, decrepid, long-bearded fellow. He is
the ferryman of hell. In the Greek his name is
Porthemeus, meaning portitor, ferryman.
He awaits and carries the souls of the dead over
the river Styx landing them safely in Hades. The
Gods swore by this river, intimating a belief in this
mythological system.
Pie only takes those souls whose bodies are bur
ied, intimating a separation of soul and body.
Hell is the Hebrew Sheol, meaning the grave.
In the Ecclesiastic code, hell means to conceal.
There are numerous references to hell through
out the bible, but they all signify the grave.
In Matt. 10:28, we have this warning to inspire
fear of the Christian God : "Fear him which is
able to destroy both soul and body in hell." A
meaner fake was never uttered.
Charon's fare is a half penny. For convenience
this piece of money was placed under the tongue
of the dead.
Acheron, the first to receive the souls from Char-
Christianity and Mythology 91
92 Christianity and Mythology
on, symbolizes the deep, black river current. Ache
ron, was the son of Terra, the earth, and Ceres, the
Goddess of civilization.
The Styx is a lake rather than a river.
Ceres was the mother of Persephone, who was
worshiped under the title of Kore which is Greek
for maiden.
In I Esdra. 5 :29, we find a name ceras. In stand
ard bible dictionaries we are informed that ceras
is Keros, as found in Ezra 2 :44, meaning crooked.
Ceres is Isis in Egyptian.
The third river is Cocytus which flows out of
Styx with groans, and noises, and howlings of the
damned.
Next comes Phlegethon, so called because it swells
with waves of fire, and all its streams are fire. This
is doubtless taken from the ancient alchemical term
Phlogiston, the supposed principle of inflammability,
or the matter of fire in composition with other
bodies.
When the souls of the dead had passed over
these four rivers, they were afterwards carried to
the palace of Pluto, King of the lower regions, who
sits in judgment upon the dead.
Here we have a story.
In this mythological scheme, Gods and men swore
by hell. Under the Christian scheme men swear by
God. In the mythological, the souls of men must
pass over four rivers in hell before they reach the
throne of the King of hell to be judged.
In the Catholic church scheme, souls are cast into
purgatory, and must pay to climb up eight steps
to the seat of judgment. This idea must be taken
Christianity and Mythology 93
Salus
94 Christianity and Mythology
from the mythological idea and reversed, as the
ancient Gypsies worshiped the devil, while the Chris
tians worship God. The devil is derived from
Evi-'l meaning God of desire. God is from the
Sanscrit Good.
Evi means desire, El means God.
Pluto, Plutus.
King of Hell.
Son of Saturn-cronus, time.
Brother of Jupiter, God of heaven, and Neptune,
God of the Sea.
The infernal regions were allotted to him by his,
father. He has charge of funerals and buryings,
and is God of the dead.
The Christian God is expressly the God of the
living and not the God of the dead, (Mark 12:27).
In Rev. 1 :18, we are told that Christ had dis
placed Pluto, and taken possession of the keys
to hell and death. A rod was placed in Pluto's
hand with which to guide the dead to hell. The
key which he carries in his hand locks the gate
against escape from hell. What is Christ going
to do with the keys of hell?
His Greek name is Pluton or Pluto. His Latin
name Dis. signifies wealth, as does Joshua, who is
Jesus in the Greek.
The Sanscrit for law is dis, and rod is the sym
bol of authority. Discipline is from dis. The Greeks
also call him Hades, signifying dark, gloomy, also
invisible. Hell means to conceal and translates the
grave. The Hebrew name for Hell is Sheol.
Hades and Gehenna are both translated hell.
Gehenna is the valley of Hinnom, and this name
Christianity and Mythology 95
signifies a place of burning or torture. The Chris
tian scheme has twisted hell, which is the grave, into
a placq of burning and torture, to frighten ignorant
people.
Hinnom allegedly was a real fact, where human
beings were sacrificed and burned, to the fire-God
Molech.
Tophet was a part of Hinnom. Tophet means a
drum which was constantly beaten to drown the
screams of young children being sacrificed, and the
lamentations of their mothers. The Lord changed
the name of this place to the valley of slaughter,
declaring : "For they shall bury in Tophet till there
be no place, and the carcasses of this people shall
be meat for the fowls of the heaven and the beasts
of the earth." (Jer. 7:32, 33).
Pluto certainly lost his job there to Christianity.
As Februns, Pluto approximates Tophet. sacrifices
called Februo were offered by the Romans to this
God in the month of February.
Under several other names he is a very busy
God.
As Plutus he is the God of riches, which are the
"root of all evil," and which nature has placed near
hell.
Plutus typifies the miserly rich man, blind, lame
and timorous.
Mankind is constantly warned by the Christians
not to accumulate wealth, yet the priests grab off
"carnal things" in exchange for "spiritual things."
Proserpine.
She who sits next to Pluto is the queen of hell.
96 Christianity and Mythology
As Pluto is the Infernal Jupiter, Proserpine is
the Infernal Juno. She is also called Libera.
The deformed Pluto kidnapped the beautiful
Proserpina and took her with him to hell. Ceres,
her mother, had to make a treaty by which the
queen of hell should live half the year in heaven
and half the year in hell. We believe this intimates
the heat of June in summer, and the cold of winter,
for she is called Kora and Korah means, freezing.
The fates are three, who handle the thread of life.
Clotho, draws the thread through her fingers.
Lachecis turns the wheel.
Atropos cuts the thread with a pair of scissors.
Clotho gives us life and brings us into the world.
Lachecis determines the fortunes that shall . befall
us, and Atropos concludes our lives. One speaks,
one writes and the third spins.
The Greek names for these fates are : Nona.
Decima, Morta.
The furies are three virgins with furious faces.
Alecto, the avenger of the shedding of a parent's
blood.
Tisiphone, the avenger of murderers.
Magaera, or Megaera, vengeance.
There are but three furies because there are but
three principal passions of the mind, anger, covet-
ounsess and lust. 'By these men are carried into all
other indiscretions.
The furies carried torches and were heartless in
their punishments.
Night, Sleep and Death
Night, Nox, the most ancient of the Gods.
Sleep, Somnus, is the brother of death.
Christianity and Mythology 97.
Death, Mors, a Goddess no prayers can move.
Nor, night, was sister to Erebus, the God of
darkness, and the daughter of Chaos, confusion.
Of Nox and Erebus Mors, death, was born.
Somnus gives great benefits to mankind, quiet of
mind, rest and tranquility, freedom from care, re
freshment of spirit to enable men to continue their
labours. All living beings woo Somnus.
In the palace of Somnus are two doors, one of
clear ivory through which false dreams pass ; the
other of transparent horn, through which true vis
ions pass.
Morpheus is the God of dreams. Assisted by
Icclus he shapes dreams which have all the appear
ance of reality, and by Phobetor he forms dreams
of alarm and dread.
Morpheus is the servant of Somnus. He assumes
any form necessary to present dreams to the sleeper.
The Three Judges of Hell
Minos—after his death he became supreme judge
in Hades.
Rhodamanthus, judged the Asiatics.
Aeacus, judged Europeans.
These are the judges of souls in hell.
Monsters of Hell
The Centaurs, horse-men, with human heads.
Harpies, born of the ocean and the earth, filthy
and poisonous —perhaps reptiles.
Gorgons, three hideous sisters —Etheno, Eurvelc,
Medusa.
98 Christianity and Mythology
Instead of hair their heads are covered with
vipers.
The Chitnaena was a monster who vomited forth
fire.
There are many other monsters in hell, all having
deformed or composite bodies to make them hide
ous, and to portray confusion and chaos. It is
curious that this system also anticipates a hell filled
with evil souls.
There is a place in the infernal region abounding
with pleasures and delights. This is called Elysium,
because, thither the souls of the good resort after
they are loosed from the chains of the body, and
have been purified. Eden means pleasure and de
light.
There is a river in hell called Lethe, forgetful-
ness.
If any body drinks of its waters he immediately
blots out of his mind all things of the past.
This provision is much more important than it
first appears.
It is from this hell scheme the Ecclesiasts derive
their idea of heaven and hell.
The Elysium is the heaven to which reformed
souls in hell are translated, hence, it is the heaven
of the system. Pious souls are permitted to remain
there until they are suitably trained to return to
earth, purified from their previous, sinful natures.
The delights of the Elysium paradise are so great,
as compared with the world, that, to permit it to
linger in the memory of the soul would be a tempta
tion to commit similar offenses in order to return
there, therefore, the river Lethe, forgetfulness.
Christianity and Mythology 99
In the Ecclesiastical scheme, Egypt, meaning op
pression and trouble, takes the place of the myth
ological hell, and all men are declared evil, there
fore, humanity at large is in the Christian hell
from the beginning, and, on a plane of probation,
men must die and be buried. The Hebrew sheol
is translated grave. Instead of mens' souls being
cast into hell, their bodies are placed there, and their
souls placed in purgatory. This necessitates the
doctrine of the resurrection of the body, to again
unite the soul and body after the soul is purged.
This is equivalent to the return of the soul from the
mythological Elysium to the earth.
Man, in the Ecclesiastical code, means earth.
Adam means earthy. The Lethele idea is not over
looked in this plagiarization. The whole scheme
is usurpative. Jacob, (Gen. 28) the beginning of
the church organization, and founder of the church
of God, (Ez. 5:11), means to supplant. Joseph, his
son, means increase. He is sent into Egypt, op
pression and trouble, where there are, born to him,
his first son, Manasseh, forgetfulness, and his sec
ond son, Ephraim, doubly-fruitful .
The word Manas means the mind, the soul. Latin
Munan, mind. Memini, I remember.
Hence, the Christian exploitation aspired to
usurp all. Catholic means universal. Its God as
sumes the attitude; of Jupiter of Heaven, the father
of Gods and men, and creates a Devil to assume
the position of Pluto, Jupiter of hell, and the "God
of this world." (II Cor. 4:4).
The Christian God is "God of Gods, and Lord
of lords." (Deut. 10:17).
100 Christianity and Mythology
Thus it is frankly admitted there are many Gods.
"Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the
Gods?" (Ex. 15:11).
While the System of Mythology was for the
glorification of Heroes and Rulers, the Ecclesias
tical enterprise was for the glory and profit of
power and earthly control for a religio-political
enterprise.
The first ten words in the Christian bible prove
this.
"In the beginning God created the heaven and
the earth." (Gen. 1:1). In the Ecclesiastical code,
heaven means government, and earth means pro
ducing mankind.
Moreover, in the translation from the original
manuscript, purposeful dishonesty is manifested in,
that, the plural Gods was translated in the singular,
God, in order to make the personification of the
Christian God a monopoly, and this despite the many
passages admitting the existence of many Gods.
"Now I know the Lord is greater than all Gods."
(Ex. 18:11).
"For the Lord your God is God of Gods, and
Lord of Lords, a great God, a mighty and terrible
God." (Deut. 10:17).
"There is one God ; and there is none other."
(Mark 12:32).
What must we think of such contradiction?
The culmination of the Christian false-pretense,
is in the modern idea of deifying the Jewish Joshua
as a God on earth in the Greek form of that name,
Jesus. Why not deify him under his several other
names and make sure of success in numbers? Oshea,
Christianity and Mythology 101
Num. 13:8; Jehoshuah, in I Chr. 7:27, or his first
name, Hosea, Hoseah, or Jchoshua. He was the
son of Nun, a fish, no matter what his name,
(Ex. 33:11), and Jesus is symbolized by a fish.
It seems incomprehensible that the modern people
will cling to a palpable fake, and go blindly on wor
shiping a Jewish God and paying money to a con
cealed Jewish scheme.
Heroes and Demi-Gods
It matters not whether the word Heros is derived
from Hera, the Greek Juno; era, the earth; eros,
love; ereo, to plead, or areta virtue, the hero idea
of mythology became the Ecclesiastical theme for
developing the earthly character for the Christian
passion play, to tear the heart and soul out of hu
manity, and seize temporal power over human
governments.
The heroes and demi-Gods of the bible are as
fabulous as those of mythology nevertheless. They
are more intimately human, in order to bring the
personification of the Godly interpretation more
within human understanding, and under the direct
control of the organized exploiters of humanity.
Let us first examine some of the demi-Gods and
heroes of the mythological system.
Hercules.
This character stands out conspicuously as the
symbol of strength and power.
He is recognized in the Apocrypha, II Mace. 4:19,
as the God "Melkart."
The name was given to many heroes, but the
official Hercules
is,
naturally the son of Jupiter,
who
is
the father
of
all Gods and men.
102 Christianity and Mythology
Hercules
Christianity and Mythology 103
His mother was the wife of the King of Thebes.
In the Ecclesiastical code, Thebes means life of
the Gods. It is the classical name of No place, or
No-Amon, place of Mystery. An Egyptian God
worshiped at Thebes as "Amen the Sun," writ
ten No in Nahum 3 :8.
This Hercules was the secret symbol of the mys
tery of Ecclesiasticism, pilfering from Egypt her
sun-worship in a disguise.
Jupiter disguised himself as Amphytrio the king
of Thebes and fooling his wife Alemena, begat of
her Hercules.
Christianity is beyond all doubt a form of sun-
worship, concealed beneath a cloak of mystery and
confiscations.
There are some pretty fables about Juno's atti
tude toward Hercules.
Juno means youth. In Romans 16 :7, she is
Junia, a friend of Paul, interpreted as, "youth is
the friend of the church worker."
Hercules was named Alcides because of his great
strength. He was placed under the authority of
Euristheus who set for him his twelve great tasks,
and he served him for twelve years.
Jacob, usurpation, in like manner served Laban.
The Twelve Great Tasks Set For Hercules
He tore in pieces the lion in the woods of Nemaea.
Samson was a giant, and, in like manner, de
stroyed a lion.
Hercules by his prayer restored Iolaus, the God
of fidelity, to his youth—renewal of faith. And
many other fabulous feats to bring him into the
realm of the miraculous.
104 Christianity and Mythology
The same system is found in the miracles of
Christ. All miracles are abnormal and unnatural
things, hence they are devoid of truth.
Hercules finally burned himself upon the pile
he had raised for sacrifice, and was accounted among
the number of Gods. In like manner, Christian
saints were made. This Hercules stuff, together
with Bacchus and Saturn, about make up the sum
and substance of the bible.
Jason, a pretty fable of the golden-fleece.
Castor and Pollux.
Twin brothers, sons of Jupiter and Leda. Again
we have the constant example of illicit love, which
is extended into the Christian system.
After her death Leda was named Nemesis, God
dess of vengeance, daughter of Nox, night. She
constantly sought for and punished crime. She
was also regarded as the Goddess of justice.
Castor and Pollux are immortalized in the constel
lation Gemini seen in the heaven.
Paul's ship had for figurehead and name, Castor
and Pollux, Acts 28:11, recognizing the potency
of these ancient Gods.
In the temple) of Castor in the Forum at Rome,
women swore by Castor but men swore by Her
cules.
Perseus.
Son of Jupiter and Danae.
In I Mace. 8:5, of the Apocrypha, we find Per
seus responding to the Ecclesiastical code, meaning
the destroyer. He was alleged to have been the
last king of Macedonia, meaning lifted up, adora-
V
Christianity and Mythology 105
106 Christianity and Mythology
tion, prostration, evidently having some reference
to the crucifixion.
Pollux, a boxer, is also in the code.
Aesculapius, son of Apollo and Coronis.
God of physicians and physic. He was secretly
taken to Rome to teach his profession.
Prometheus.
Made men of clay and animated them with fire.
Clay means sin, and fire means opinions. This is
identically the Christian process, the doctrine of
original sin.
To punish him Jupiter took fire wholly away
from the earth. The Christian God took opinions
away from the earth, meaning mankind.
With the assistance of Minerva, Goddess of wis
dom, he climbed the heavens and stole fire from
the chariot of the sun.
Jupiter had Mercury bind him to a rock on Mount
Caucaucus, where a vulture gnawed his liver, which
grew as much in the night as was consumed in the
day, thus prolonging the torture. Hercules, slew
the vulture and set Prometheus free. This is sug
gestive of the crucifixion, also.
Upon observing the skill of Prometheus in making
the first man of clay, Minerva the Goddess of wis
dom, was so amazed she proffered to procure him
anything from heaven he might desire.
Prometheus replied, that he did not know of any
thing in heaven which could be useful to him, since
he had never seen heaven. Upon being shown the
wonders of heaven he observed that the heat of
the sun was most useful to animate the man of clay
which he had formed ; therefore he lighted a stick
Christianity and Mythology 107
Aesculapius
108 Christianity and Mythology
by the wheel of the sun's chariot and carried it
lighted with him to the earth to animate his clay
man. Merely a romantic idea of the origin of fire
on earth.
This theft of fire from heaven, so much displeased
Jupiter, that he sent Pan-dora into the world, with
a box filled with all sorts of evils, which, through
her curiosity, she released to torment the world.
This is the explanation for the presence of sin
in the world.
There can be little doubt about this being the
origin of the idea in Genesis 2
:7,
of the Lord God
having formed man of the dust
of
the ground, and
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, thus
converting him into
a
living soul, quite a figurative
thing.
The Ecclesiastic code becomes very useful in
demonstrating this.
,
This man, formed by God, was temporarily placed
in the Garden
of
Eden, in Paradise, then put out
of his paradise because of disobedience.
It will be remembered, that, Pluto, king
of
hell,
had
a
place which he named Elysium,
a
place of
pleasure and delight, in which those who were re
deemed from evil were permitted temporary so
journ.
Let us see what Prometheus brought out of
heaven.
He recognized the sun, as the source of fire.
Fire means judgments, discretion, opinion.
Heaven means Ecclesiastical government.
Chariot means
a
vehicle
of
war, hosts.
Wheel means revolution.
Christianity and Mythology 109
Clay means a writing tablet, hence, putting fire
into clay was to prepare the tablet for writing ; put
ting a soul into the clay form was placing upon it
the writings —this was the clay man. The tablets
talked by conveying thought.
Pan-dora.
Pan means universal. Dora means door. Dora
is from the same root as Dorian. One branch of
the Dorians was called Achaia, which, in the code,
means trouble and grief, exactly what Pan-dora
turned loose in the world in the beginning. This
was the origin of the idea of universal sin, but the
Christians placed the blame upon universal hu
manity.
Garden means a place for cultivation.
Eden means a place of pleasure and delight, iden
tical with the Elysium of Pluto.
The secret of this is :
Under the discipline of training the priesthood,
there is demanded a rigid obedience. The punish
ment for disobedience is symbolized by the expul
sion of Adam from the Garden—a place of cultiva
tion, education. The purpose is to explain why the
masses are uneducated.
The reward for obedience was the delights and
pleasures of Eden.
The sending forth of the pious from the Elysium
is the precedent for the sending forth of the priest
hood to redeem and purify the worldly wicked.
In this work, the delights and pleasures of Eden
must be forgotten, symbolizing the waters of Lethe,
which means forgetting.
Water means ordinances.
110 Christianity and Mythology
Earth means producing humanity.
Dust, from which God formed man, means storm-
cloud, and figures the irresponsible mob.
Adam is from the Sanscrit Adim, meaning first,
hence Adam typifies the first of organized mankind,
created with heaven, meaning government.
It is interesting to examine the word man.
Egyptian for man was se.
Er means watch, hence Seer is a watchman, one
who sees, a prophet.
Ad-am, as man, typifies the human race (Gen.
5 :2) "Man became a living soul" —a thinking being.
The German for soul is se-ele, cognate with Se-lah,
frequently found in the Hebrew Psalms. It means
the fire of the everlasting, vindicating the spark of
everlasting fire of the sun brought from heaven
and put into man by Prometheus —that is discern
ment.
Ele-aleh means the ascent of God.
In Hebrews 12 :29 we have :
"Our God, is a consuming fire."
The Dutch for soul is zi-el, the firey light of God.
Fire is judgment; light is intellect.
The English soul was originally is-ol, the essence
of God.
The Hebrew for man is ish and for woman,
isha.
El-isha means God his salvation, and the Hebrew
God is fire.
The Latin homo is Om, the sun, as also the
French homme.
Ame the French for soul, is the Hindoo Aum,
meaning the sun.
Christianity and Mythology 111
All have reference to the fire and light of the
sun.
Man in Scotland is Mon. This is the root of
the Latin mens, the English mind, the Sanscrit
manus, and of the Greek monos, meaning single, soli
tary, alone. It originally meant om or on, one sun.
As ma-on, one mother, as in mo-on, moon, which
is the symbol of the Magna mater —Cybele.
Ra the sun, was Amon or Amun.
The Greeks called Zeus, Amman, or Hammon.
Ammon means the people, in the code. In I Chron.
6:76, Hammun is mentioned in connection with
Galilee, meaning revolution.
The original King of Egypt was men or menes,
meaning the sole Light—the sole intellect of Egypt.
In the old Latin manis means good, and manes
means ancestors.
The sanscrit for God is good.
The sanscrit word for man is manasha.
The Gypsy word for man is manus.
It is well to see if we may analyze the character
Prometheus, who was guilty of creating the earthy
man, and indirectly bringing evil into the world.
About all we find to enlighten us is the fire brought
from heaven by this mythological God, who was
the son of Jupiter, as Jesus was the son of the
Hebrew-Christian God, who is a consuming fire.
Jesus is revealed in flaming fire. (II Thess. 1 :8).
That is in the light of the visible sun.
"The light of Israel shall be for a fire." (Isaiah
10:17).
Jesus Christ declared :
"I came to bring fire on the earth." (Luke 12 :49) .
112 Christianity and Mythology
Jesus was nailed to a cross, by God. Prometheus
was chained to a rock by Jupiter. Both brought
fire on earth.
We may safely assume that the Christian scheme
is a modified form, of ancient mythologies, and was
originally intended as a cloak beneath which to con
ceal a tremendous political enterprise invented by an
Ecclesiastical body.
Ecclesia means a legislative body.
Away back is found this :
Prometheus denotes foresight, providence and
prudence. He is typical of the reducing of men,
rude and savage, to a civilized state of humanity.
His making men out of the dirt is figurative. Rep
resenting the earliest study of astronomy, from the
Caucasus mountains, he was allegedly chained there.
His stealing fire from heaven is drawn from the
invention of striking fire from the flint, or the first
discovery of the burning nature of lightning.
"God is a consuming fire." (Heb. 12:29).
It is important that Prometheus is the father of
Deucalion, who was the king of Thesaly.
Greek historians record that the Slavs knew only
one God, the fabricator of lightning, whom they
looked upon as ruler of all.
Thessolonica is the ancient Thermoe.
Therme is in the sanscrit Gharma. heat.
During the reign of Deucalion there was a great
deluge, and the whole earth was overflowed, and
mankind was wholly destroyed, excepting Deucalion
and Pyrrha, his wife, who were carried in a ship
upon a mountain, Parnassus. When the waters
abated thev consulted the oracle of Themis. The
Christianity and Mythology 113
oracle told them that mankind could be restored
if they cast the bones of their great mother behind
them. By the great mother was meant the earth,
and by her bones was meant the stones. The stones
thus cast by Deucalion and his wife promoted a
better moral and social life. Sopater was com
panion to Paul. (Acts 20:4).
The Muses previously referred to came from
Parnassus. .
We are told that Deucalion and Pyrrha made a
new face upon the earth. Water and heat. This
again proves that the earth signifies humanity in the
Ecclesiastic code.
Here we have, specifically, the origin of the deluge
in the bible.
That all this is recognized by the Ecclesiasts is
very plain. By his wife Pelione, Atlas had seven
daughters which are recognized in the pleiades.
Their names were, Electra. Halcyone, Cclaeno,
Maia, Asterope, Taygete and Meropc.
In Job 9:9 and 38:31, the pleiades are recognized
as daughters of Plclone. If one part of this myth
ology is admitted, all must be.
Electra is mother of Iris, Goddess of the rain
bow.
Halcyone, happy days.
Celaeno, one of the harpies, half woman and half
bird.
Maia, mother of Mercury, Goddess of growth.
There are many fabulous tales regarding these
imaginary creatures.
Orpheus tamed wild beasts with his sweet music.
114 Christianity and Mythology
Amphion, so swayed men with his eloquence, he
changed them from savages to civilized men.
Achilles—His mother plunged him into the stygian
waters which rendered him invulnerable except in
his heel. He was killed from being shot in this
heel with an arrow. We have been unable to ascer
tain which foot was vulnerable.
Ulysses, a slacker, feigning madness to avoid
going to war. He was found out and- forced to go
to war.
Orion, as the pleiades predict fair weather, the
constellation fo Orion predicts foul weather.
Virtues Deified
Virtue, from vir was worshiped as the most manly
ornament.
Fides, candor and loyalty.
Hope, preserved in Pandora's box.
Justice, the Greek Astraea.
Piety, gained her mother's freedom from prison
by feeding her from her own breasts.
Mercy, protected fugitives.
Clemency, pardon.
Chastity, banished for marrying plebeian.
Truth, mother of virtue.
Good sense, understanding, sound minded.
Concord, agreement, harmony.
Salus, Goddess of health.
Fidelity, loyalty, affection.
Liberty, freedom of thought and speech.
Money, Goddess of exchanges.
Christianity and Mythology 115
Harpocrates
116 Christianity and Mythology
i
The Vices and Evil Deities
They oppose our happiness and do us mischief.
Envy.
Contumely.
Impudence.
Calumny.
Fraud.
Discord.
Fury.
Fame.
Fortune.
Fever.
Fear.
Poverty.
Art.
Necessity.
Violence.
Tempest.
Silence.
It will be observed that both fortune and poverty
are included in this list.
The world, centuries ago outgrew Mythology.
It served its purpose, as a romantic entertainment
of humanity. Compared with the raucous, rough
neck stuff of the Christian enterprise, Mythology
was beautiful. A superstitious fear of unmention
able horrors, conjured out of the vivid imaginations
of monks with warped and morbid minds, took
beauty out of the world, and planted all the horrors
of hell and damnation in the mind of humanitv.
>
Christianity and Mythology
Fortune
118 Christianity and Mythology
The time is come when superstition must go.
Compare the art of Mythology with the sodden
view of all that stands for Christianity and you will
be amazed that mankind has truly' risen from the
lower animals. Always that ghoulish, hysterical
view of blood and suffering, to tear the heart out
of the weak minded ; always that glare, and threat of
vengeance for anyone interfering with the Chris
tian determination to submerge humanity in sin,
crime, imbecility and poverty, and that eternal ac
cusation that all men, as long as they live, are crim
inal at heart. It is beyond belief that mankind
could have been brought to a state of abject mental
slavery by leather-necked, sodden-faced, raucous-
voiced blatherskites, with rolling eyes leering up
wards, soft hands clasped in eager anticipation of
a full basket, and the sickening sob-stuff which
these bunks call prayer and song.
The time is now at hand when the churches must
lay their cards upon the table face up. They have
insulted and bullyragged every meritorious thing
man has done. They dispute nature in their purile
antagonism of evolution, yet apply the same prin
ciple to the promotion of their own absurd doc
trines. They refuse mankind the right to pursue
scientific research because it might throw a dubious
light upon their own theories. Yet they adopt for
their own comfort every new scientific invention.
They repudiated philosophy because it teaches
men to reason, and draw logical deductions which
make their doctrines appear fdolish.
Selfishness is the basis of everything they do.
They interfere with our educational systems, and
Christianity and Mythology 119
meddle in the political and legislative activities of
the people. They violate every legal excuse for
their being permitted to continue as a parasitical bur- .
den upon humanity.
Moral influence, bah! The world has become
more involved in wars, crime, insanity, ignorance
and poverty, every century since the introduction
of Christianity. It preaches war or peace, which
ever identifies it with power and political influence.
In the very midst of the late world war it made
a raid upon overtaxed humanity in the United
States, mulcting it to the tune of a billion of dol
lars.
It is the duty of the federal government to ap
point an unprejudiced commission to make a full and
exhaustive investigation of the so-called religious
organizations, and all allied associations, with the
view of ascertaining to what extent they unduly in
fluence political bodies, legislation and national edu
cation and development. Moreover, the people
should be informed to what extent the churches
add to their financial burdens, and why they are
permitted to accumulate vast wealth without paying
taxes.
Christianity is a myth, it is drawn from all
previous mythologies. Are the people to forever
remain enthralled by fiction, romance and super
stition ? Or will governments rise out of the masses
to challenge this grizzled power of superstitious
antiquity ?
The time is now or never, for it is framing a
political culmination which may submerge humanity
120 Christianity and Mythology
in all the horrors of the centuries of the inquisition.
The second burning of the tares is due.
The churches are as vicious toward opposition
today as at any time in their history. They openly
challenge all resentment that they intrude their im
pudent noses into national politics ; they boast their
influences over legislation, and they are straining
every fibre in their organization to bring all man
kind under accusation of crime, by legislating crime
and imbecility into the people, to vindicate that '
damnable doctrine of "original sin," and justify
their eternal accusations against mankind.
You are not interested?
Then you need not bother about investigating
the causes of your own troubles. It is the thinker
and reasoner we desire to interest, those who live
for tomorrow as well as for today ; those who think
of the new generation which must take up the bur
dens of the present.
If Christianity will plagiarize its doctrines from
mythology, it will use these doctrines for its own
ends. There is a motive in all such plagiarisms, and
the motive with Christianity is clearly to make its
God superior to all other Gods, and to assume a
super-authority over the world.
"Greater than all Gods." (Ex. 18 :1 1
) .
"God of Gods." (Deut. 10:17).
That is the spirit of the Christian pretense.
The culmination, which is right now drawing
near, is expressed in terse terms. This God is
become "King of Kings and Lord of Lords." (Rev.
19:16).
Christianity and Mythology 121
THE ECCLESIASTICAL CODE
PERSONIFICATIONS
There are many who would like to pursue *his
theme farther, and for their convenience we add
a limited vocabulary, which may be enlarged at their
pleasure by reference to the standard bible diction
aries. We are using James P. Boyd, and adding
from some antique vocabularies, which are diffi
cult to find.
It will be observed that, instead of using the
biblical names in alphabetical order; we use the
words standing for these names.
This more clearly defines the personification of
words. We give only sufficient to demonstrate the
system. We draw the meaning words from numer
ous vocabularies.
Beginning With the Letter A
Anklet-Achsah.
Achsah is a daughter of Caleb, meaning a dog,
a basket, a crow. He is the son of Hezron, or Es-
rom, meaning the dart of joy, division. Inasmuch
as Caleb was the spy of Joshua, in his plundering
raids, we may readily interpret the word basket as
the spoils, the word joy as the pleasure of triumph,
and the word division as the distribution of the
spoils.
The daughter of all this is Achsah.
Daughter means milk. She married Othniel, the
time of God.
Milk is the symbol ot fertility.
Anklets are bells, meaning bellowcrs to attract
attention.
122 Christianity and Mythology
This is the partial significance of a single word.
Answering—Anah .
Anah was the father-in-law of Esau, the hairy
man, and also means poor and afflicted.
Jacob, the supplanter, cheated his brother, Esau,
out of his inheritance. Doubtless this involved
Esau in poverty and affliction.
Jacob is Israel, symbolizing the church of God.
Esau symbolizes the common masses of people,
answering or responding to the influences of the
Ecclesiastical experimentation.
A nswer—A nath.
Anath is daughter of Shamgar, meaning the
sword. Hence, the milk of the experiment is the
sword. The sword is the symbol of war and slaugh
ter.
Ass—Arad.
The ass is the dragon, or the serpent, and sym
bol of drudgery. The serpent symbolizes wisdom.
Arad was a Benjamite, meaning protection.
Ambush —Arab.
Ambush means a trap, a snare, treachery, be
trayal.
Arab means a city of Hebron meaning friend
ship, society, enchantment.
And this is all an ambush.
Ark—Araunah.
Ark means a treasure chest.
Araunah was the alleged Jebusite who sold his
threshing-floor to David.
Jehus is the original name of Jerusalem, mean
ing the threshing-floor of the Jebusites —separating
the grain from the chaff. This is the great and
Christianity and Mythology 123
wonderful Jerusalem of the bible, over which
Catholic popes sprinkled the innocent blood of mil
lions of ignorant men, women and children in the
exploitation of the plundering raids called . the
Christian Crusades— the greatest premeditated crime
in all human history.
Approaching —Assus.
Assus is a criminal, abominable, seaport town.
Approach means to draw near to.
Afflicted by God—Athaliah.
Athaliah was the wicked wife of Jehoram,
exalted.
Jehoram or Joram was the son of Ahab, meaning
the brother of the father or high priest.
Ahab married Jezebel, who introduced the wor
ship of Baal, meaning lord, master.
Baal or Bel was Belus, the sun-god of Babylon,
mentioned in our essay on Mythology —Nimrod, re
bellion.
Jezebel signifies chastity, and her worship of her
lord was the love for her husband instead of the
high priest.
Even Christ declares that he that loves father,
mother or son or daughter more than himself were
unworthy of him. (Matt. 10:37). Evidently the
wife's love for her husband does not count at all,
at least Jezebel's chastity was counted as wicked
ness.
Avenging help—Azrikim.
Azrikim is a descendant of Saul.
Saul means the destroyer, the grave.
124 Christianity and Mythology ,
Azrikim was also a descendant of Zerubabel,
meaning, born in Babylon, mixture and confusion.
Affliction or the son of afliction
—Baanah.
Hannah was one of the murderers of Ishbosheth,
the man of shame, at the instigation of David, who
also had Uriah murdered so he could prostitute his
wife, Bathsheba.
Alone —Bedad.
Bedad was the father of Hadad, noise, ribald joy.
Hadad was King of Edom, meaning, red, earthy.
Idumca is the Greek for Edom, also called Scir.
a name given to Esau, the hairy man, and meaning
cave-dwellers.
According to judgment—Bedan.
Bedan was the son of Gilead, meaning testimony.
Very clearly judgments are rendered upon the
presentation of testimony. This signifies the wit
nesses and testimony left on the other side of Jor
dan which means judgment. Reuben, prophecy, and
Gad an armed force, were not permitted to come
over Jordan but remained in the heap of witnesses
and testimony of Gilead.
Ambush —Beth-arbel.
Beth-arbel means the place of massacre.
Assess—Census.
The old testament notes twelve different census.
In Luke 2:13, "All the world was to be taxed."
This has more than been fulfilled.
All-seeing —Colhozeh.
Calhozeh means praise, exaltation, approval,
honor.
Antelope—Dishan.
Youngest son of Seir the hairy, cave-dweller.
Christianity and Mythology 125
Age —Elam.
Elam is the son of Shorn, name, fame, who places.
This is a significant name. Elam, we believe it
has a secret reference to the idea of the immaculate
conception, which was not broached until a hun
dred years after the introduction of Jesus Christ.
Elam means a young priest, a virgin, a secret,
and an age.
Away—Eshtaol.
Eshtaol means a stout woman, strong.
The name also means the burial place of Samson.
Samson means Sunlike, Son, Service, here the
second time. He was the) Son of Manaah, meaning
rest.
Strength is necessarily the offspring of rest.
He was of Dan, meaning judgment.
He was betrayed by Delilah, meaning poverty and
longing.
Again we may see the hidden idea ; poverty and
longing would sap the strength and manhood of
opposition.
All this is revealed by the personification of the
simple term a way.
Evidently the way was betrayal, the sword, and
war and slaughter.
Ascent of God—Elealeh.
Elealeh was a Moabite town assigned to Reuben.
Moab was the bastard son of Lot by his own
daughter.
Lot means vail, mystery. Reuben means vision
of the son, prophecy. The further significance of
Elealeh is offering of God, the ascension.
We at once sense the underlying reference to
126 Christianity and Mythology
the theme of God sacrificing his son, Jesus Christ,
and his ascension. This had to be approached with
caution, because the Hebrew Messiah as a person
ality was to be slipped into the Christian scheme
as "the Christ." . Note the article the preceding the
word Christ, signifying the annointed, Christ not
being a proper name at all, but a form of the Greek
name Kristos, equivalent to the Hebrew Messiah,
meaning the annointed one.
The word Cross, Krois or Krouz, is derived from
the same root word. The Cross symbolizes the hilt
of the sword or truncheon of dominion, power,
authority, hence the annointed one is a priest or a
king.
Krishna is the Hindoo Apollo, symbolizing the
glorious going down of the sun to ascend again
in a new morning. The color of Krishna is blue.
Later this all works out with God as the sun.
Jesus as the light of the sun, and Christ as the blue
sky. In the Mythologies, the wife of Krishna
"the nocturnal sun," was named Luxmee. Ish means
Lux, light, signifying the star-light or night-light.
Ish-tar, Ish "the light," and tar "daughter of."
was the female deity of the Assyrians, as Ashtorcth
was the female deity of the Phoenicians. Both mean
star.
Ish is a common prefix for many biblical words,
becoming extremely important at this point.
We are getting very close to the hidden secret
of this Christian conspiracy, for that is exactly what
it was. Christ could not be made the personal
saviour. The word Messiah only signified the for
mality of choosing a leader, a high priest, or a king.
Christianity and Mythology 127
Having converted the Messiah into the Greek Kris-
tos, it was in order to convert the saviour of the
Jews, Joshua, into the Greek form, Jesus, to es
tablish a saviour of the Christians. An analysis of
Joshua quickly reveals the hidden snare.
Rebekah, mother of Jacob, means snare.
Jacob means to supplant, to usurp by trickery.
Jacob begets Joheph, meaning increase.
Judah is the fourth son of Jacob, and means ap
proval.
Shua is the father-in-law of Judah, and means
wealth.
Jo is an abbreviation of Joseph, increase.
Jo-\-Shua means increased wealth, the saviour
of the Jews, "converted in Greek to Jesus, the al
leged saviour of mankind.
Jacob becomes Israel,' signifying the Christian
Church.
To bring this about necessitated the concealing
darkness. Light, the constant theme of all this
work, signified human intellect. This had to be
submerged. Humanity had to be degraded and
sunk in the darkness of abject ignorance before
the new "light of the world." Christianity, could
brighten the dawn as the rising sun of a new
gospel day. Day means gospel period.
The crucifixion of humanity is burned into human
history as the "dark ages," 486 to 1495.
The resurrection was intended to raise up hu
manity in a new intelligence, under the sword and
whip of Christianity. Rut outraged nature said
no. No human machination could suspend the nat
ural laws of a progressive evolution. Humanity
refuses to respond.
128 Christianity and Mythology
We shall now continue our word study.
Ass—Emmor.
Emmor is Hamor, father of Shechem.
Shechem means portion, shoulder.
Through many centuries the portion of the com
mon, itinerant, Jew peddler, was the pack on his
shoulders the badge of Shechem, the Canaanite,
who abducted Dinah, meaning judgment, and was
slain by Simeon and Levi.
Simeon means obedience, discipline.
Levi means restraint.
Clearly this reveals the suppression of the itin
erant independent Jew tradesmen by bringing them
under discipline and restraint. Figuratively, this ap
plies to the drastic notions of discipline and obedi
ence under church control and authority.
The Ass is the symbol of the plodding burden
bearer, and is frequently applied to men.
Thus a logical story weaves itself about these
seemingly trivial words, revealing the underlying
subtlety and cunning of the minds which conjured
the far reaching enterprise.
Alliance —Heber.
Heber is also Eber, meaning beyond, passing
over, wrath,
'
fury, anger.
The name Hebrew comes from Heber, "Abraham
the Hebrew."
This especially has reference to the alliance be
tween the Jews and the Ecclesiasts as found in
Gen. 28. Jacob becoming Israel.
Allotted —Jahzeel.
We find little reference to this name other than
that he is the son of Naphtali, another son of Jacob.
Christianity and Mythology 129
It is significant, however, that, he means allotted,
because this whole system is one of plunder, spoils
and division. His brothers are Jezer, meaning help,
and Shillem, meaning retribution. Quite a com
bination, this, allotment, cooperation and a threat
of punishment for failure.
Adorned —Jehoadah.
He was a descendant of Said, meaning destroyer,
sepulchre. He also means praise or knowledge of
the Lord. His father was Ahaz, one who seizes
or takes possession.
Ancient —Jeshishai.
He was a Gadite, meaning an armed and pre
pared troop. He was the son of Jahdo, meaning
united, who also was a Gadite.
Affliction—Jachon.
Another Gadite. Gad was the seventh son of
Jacob.
Assembler—Jeush.
Son of Esau, the hairy man.
Jeush also means gnawed, devoured.
Assembler—Kohath.
Kohath . was the second son of Levi, restraint,
priest. Also means obedience, to make blunt.
This refers to the strict discipline under which
the priesthood was trained.
Annointed —Messiah.
Applied to installing of priests, kings and high
officials.
The Hebrew Messiah becomes the Greek Kris-
tos and the Christ making the Hebrew God the
Christian God.
130 Christianity and Mythology
We must not forget, that, if Noah and his three
sons repeopled the earth we are all Jews. Science
disputes and repudiates the Noahic story.
Active — Oman.
The Jebusite prince from whom David bought
the threshing-floor on which he built the altar.
This symbolizes the conversion of the separating
of the faithful from the opposition by figurative
thrashing, to a policy of love. David means love.
He sacrificed his human passions on the altar of
love. Hence, Oman also is Auranah, meaning ark,
a treasure chest, which came into David's posses
sion. David was an ardent tax collector.
A miable—Philetus.
Philetus also means beloved as does David. He
was the convert denounced by Paul for error in
preaching that the resurrection had already occurred.
(II Tim. 2:17). The name is derived from the Greek
philandros, love of men, and philos, friendly, fond
of. The word philosophy comes from the same
root. Therefore the denouncing of Philetus mere
ly symbolizes the resentment of the church worker
toward philosophy which disputed the future resur
rection. Moreover, it is declared that Paul, who
typifies the church worker, did not preach the resur
rection, and, that, such references as that in II Tim.
2:17, is an attempt to correct this.
Afflicted —Putiel.
The name also means God is my fatness.
The priest naturally gives credit to the source
from which he receives his food. Putiel was the
father-in-law of Eleazar, the third son of Aaron.
Christianity and Mythology 131
Aaron means enlightenment, teacher.
Eleazar means the help of God, the court.
The afflicted were a good excuse for the court.
Asked of God—Salathicl.
This exactly agrees with the above.
Salathicl was the son of Jechonias, meaning God
appointed.
At the suggestion of his father-in-law, Jethro,
Moses appointed judges to preside instead of God,
in all petty cases, but he, himself, was the court of
last resort.
Jethro means posterity, and is high priest over
Midian, meaning strife.
Is this clear?
Adversary —Satan.
Satan is a common noun meaning enemy, con
trary, opposition, accusing, the devil, which is evil.
This is all there is to Satan and the Devil, oppo
sition to the church enterprise.
Asked —Shanl, Saul.
Saul means the destroyer, the grave.
He is the son of Simeon, meaning obedience, reg
ulated, disciplined.
We call attention to the drastic significance of
these meanings of names falling under the letter A
as we approach the end of the A list.
Armed —Shilhi.
Grandfather of King Jehoshaphat, meaning the
Lord will judge, also son and successor of Asa,
meaning physician. '
It is sufficient that he was the
record keeper under David, beloved, and Solomon,
recompense.
132 Christianity and Mythology
Alert—Simuri.
He was a Merarite.
Merari means bitter, provoking.
Merari is the third, son of Levi, restraint. There
is a logical sequence running through this system.
Afflicted —Uni or Unni.
He was a watchman, naturally belonging to alert
ness. Who must be watched?
Unni signifies also the poor and afflicted.
Ambush —Zereda.
Zereda means also the plan of power, a most
significant thing in view of the fact that he repre
sents the native place of Jeroboam in the mountains
of Ephraim.
Jeroboam means increase of people, and Ephraim
means doubly fruitful.
There is just one more step to complete this ex
ploitation—control of increasing humanity.
Almighty is my rock—Zurishaddai.
He is father of Shelamiel, God's peace, chief
of the tribe of Simeon, meaning discipline, well
regulated, obedience.
We need not continue this through the other let
ters of the alphabet, they merely extend the scheme
and elaborate the methods, by which the Ecclesiasts
proposed to seize control of the world. We shall,
however, interpret a brief list of the leading char
acters of the bible to demonstrate the absolute hum-
buggery of it all.
The Adamic or Earthy Period
Adam, the earth. From the sanscrit Adim, the
beginning.
Christianity and Mythology 133
Eve, life.
Cain, possession —the vegetation.
Abel, breath, the atmosphere.
Seth, compensation, the respiring animals.
The vegetation inhales carbon dioxide and exhales
oxygen. The animals inhale oxygen and exhale
carbon dioxide, hence Seth means compensation.
Out of the lower animals evolutes mortal man.
"And to Seth, to him also there was born a
son; and he called his name Enos." (Gen. 4:26).
Enos means mortal man, subject to earthly temp
tations and fall.
This is the special dispensation of Christianity.
On its face he is the product of a natural evolution.
The Noahic or Water Period
Noah, rest, repose, consolation.
This signifies the state of rest and recuperation
of the church after having submerged humanity
beneath a deluge of afflictions.
Waters mean afflictions.
Shem, name, fame, reputation.
Japheth, enlargement, extension.
Ham, heat, zeal, enthusiasm.
The Hebraic or Air Period
Abraham, the clouds, the father of the multitudes.
He comes from Ur, fire, heat, which causes evap
oration of moisture.
Water means also multitudes of people.
Isaac, laughter, joy, prosperity, symbol of the
sunshine.
Jacob, the supplanter, usurpation.
Jacob becomes Israel, symbolizing the Church of
God.
134 Christianity and Mythology
His twelve sons represent a well defined plan and
procedure of the priesthood.
The Mosaic or Fire Period
Mo means water, ses means he who draws out.
Water also means a multitude of ordinances, and
fire means judgments.
Aaron means enlightenment, the teacher.
Joshua means saviour.
Jo means increase. Shua means wealth. Hence,
increased wealth becomes the saviour of Israel,
symbolizing the Church of God.
Joshua is converted into the Greek Jesus and
becomes God on earth. Thus a disguised character
of Jewish fable becomes the alleged saviour of man
kind.
This is sufficient for our purpose. Not one of
these characters ever existed in fact, yet humanity
is bending its knee to worship them, and bending
its back to support the hordes of idle, useless men
who unblushingly preach this simple minded stuff
to the ignorant masses, and pile up unknown bil
lions of wealth upon which they pay no taxes.
The man who carefully reads what we have writ
ten and still clings to his inspired hallucination, is not
worth worrying about ; he delights in being tickled,
thrilled and made a fool of. It's the man who thinks
we want to awaken. If you do not soon throw off
this burden
it!
will be too late.
The last figurative flood
is
upon the world. Hu
manity
is
being deluged with laws, and drowned
in taxation.
It's up to you, brother.
