{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__nyland___aquarian_pioneers.pdf","mytitle":"Aquarian Pioneers","mylang":"de"}
The
^
Aquarian Pioneers
Adventure and Romance
on the High Sea
BY THEO NYLAND
Illustrations by the Author
Frontispiece by Franz Wenzel
Published By
A. WAGNER PUBLISHING CO.
Manzanar, California, U. S. A.
19x7
Printed at Johnson Press, 6937 York Boulevard, Los Angeles
Copyright, 1917
By Thco Nyland
Los Angeles
Frontispiece by FRANZ WENZEL.
The brute-man of the planet, he will pass,
Blown out like forms of vapor on a glass;
And from this quaking pulp of life will rise
The Superman, child of the higher skies —
—Edwin Markham.
"The AQUARIAN PIONEERS"
By THEO NYLAND
To Henry Ford
and all the Builders
of the New Humanity
CC91&6
THE people are always helped forward
much against their will. Humanity is
not so naturally progressive as we sometimes
say it is. It does not move so much as it is
moved by forces beyond its control. Were it
not for leaders, whose self-fulfillment de
pends on completing the mission they were
sent to perform, we little know how slowly
humanity would progress.
HENRY FORD.
A' NYTHING that is to appear to us as
Truth must be seen as such within the
range of our own experience. To accept a
statement as authoritative is folly. To believe
on the statement of any person, or on the rec
ords of any book, or because of opinions held
by any number of persons, is also folly. For
belief is not knowledge; it is a confession of
ignorance. Knowledge is gained through ob
servation and experience, and in no other way.
When we have the experience, we have the
knowledge; and beliefs are no longer of any
moment to us, one way or the other.
From "THOUGHTS FOR THINKERS"
—ANONYMOUS.
«3r
If I can throw a single ray of light
Across the darkened pathway of another;
If I can aid some soul to clearer sight
Of life and duty, and thus bless my brother;
If I can wipe from any human cheek a tear,
I shall not then have lived in vain while here.
If I can guide some erring one to truth,
Inspire within his heart a sense of duty;
If I can plant within the soul of rosy youth
A sense of right, a love of truth and beauty;
If I can teach one man that God and heaven are
near;
I shall not then have lived in vain while here.
If from my mind I banish doubt and fear,
And keep my life attuned to love and kindness:
If I can scatter light and hope and cheer,
And help remove the curse of mental blindness;
If I can make more joy, more hope, less pain,
I shall not then have lived and loved in vain.
If by life's roadside I can plant a tree,
Beneath whose shade some wearied head may
rest,
Though I may never share its shade, or see
Its beauty, I shall yet be truly blest—
Though no one knows my name,
Nor drops a flower on my bier,
I shall not then have lived in vain while here.
—Dr. B. F. Austin.
The Aquarian Pioneers
The stars above us govern our conditions.
—Shakespeare.
A SI looked at the man who had come three
■**■
thousand miles to find me, I had no idea
that the great adventure was beginning. He
did not look like a messenger of fate—this
tall, grave gentleman, upon whose face a life
time of sad experiences had stamped deep
lines of self control.
"Doctor Hartford, my name is Mac Don
ald." The voice was one which I had heard
in my dreams; its deep tones gave a strange
ring of authority to the simple announcement.
"How soon could you be ready to leave San
Francisco?"
I stared at him in amazement.
"What! You have not received my letter?
Then I must beg your pardon for such an
abrupt beginning. My letter should have
reached you yesterday, so that you would have
had time to think aboulj the matter, and come
to a decision."
9
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Sorry, sir, I did not receive your letter,"
I said, still puzzled by his singular manner
and way of speaking.
"Then I shall have to explain," he replied;
"I have come to see you by order of Mr. Rey
nold Van Hoover, the well known multi-mill
ionaire who at this time is on his way from
Panama to San Francisco. I came by train
from New York to arrange matters for Mr.
Van Hoover's intended voyage to the South
Sea, afterward to the Orient. As this is the
most favorable time of the year to make a trip
in safety and comfort, he will leave as soon
as his cargo is in. Mr. Van Hoover has com
missioned me to offer you the position of
physician on his yacht 'Andromeda', and to
practice the other sciences and arts in which
you are so well posted, as Mr. Wright has
informed him."
"Mr. William Wright?" I inquired. My
interest was aroused.
He smiled.
"Yes," he replied, and continued in a mat
ter of fact way, "I have no doubt but that
your profession will be x)f such a nature that
you will find great satisfaction in your work
and which will undoubtedly be in harmony
with your ideals. There is very little to do at
10
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
present in a medical way, as every one on the
yacht is in excellent condition. Mr. Van
Hoover desires principally to have you as his
advisor, companion, and co-worker, for he
feels that your knowledge will be of great
help to him."
I had listened with great interest. The
evident sincerity and straightforward manner
in which he presented his commission made a
most favorable impression.
"I am much honored by Mr. Van Hoover's
offer and confidence," I said, "however, I
must have time to think it over."
He nodded approvingly, saying:
"Very well, doctor, if you accept you will
have to be ready to leave on Thursday of next
week, as the 'Ardromeda' will sail at five p.m.
It is for this reason that Mr. Van Hoover
thought it advisable to send me here in ad
vance, giving you, I hope, sufficient time to
arrange your affairs."
It was most difficult to refrain from accept
ing this unique offer at once. Nevertheless,
I was not impulsive enough to do so. While
I was thus deep in thought, my caller drew
out his wallet and took from it a bank note.
"Here are five hundred dollars in advance
for your expenses," he said, his voice and
11
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
manner having the assurance of the success of
his commission.
Notwithstanding this visible proof of his
sincere intentions I refused to accept his note.
I motioned my refusal, saying :
"You will have my answer at this time the
day after to-morrow."
"Very well," he replied, "As for references,
any bank will furnish you with the same. Mr.
Wright will also gladly give you any informa
tion you may desire. At, this time the day af
ter to morrow I shall expect an answer. Good
day, doctor!"
"Good day, sir!" I answered; then closing
the door I seated myself in an easy chair. Al
though everything looked favorable and in
teresting, I could not so easily banish from my
mind the thought of becoming subordinate to
another. The offer coming at this time was
most gratifying for I had long promised my
self the pleasure of a sea voyage; seeing
foreign countries had always been my heart's
desire; and traveling on a private yacht
bound for the South Sea and probably the
Orient suggested romance and adventure.
"But no!" I thought, "It would not do, to
sell my occult knowledge to a millionaire, to
make him richer; perhaps to show him the
12
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
best time to speculate, to win a race, to gain
advantage —money at the expense of others—
No!—And yet—this millionaire may be dif
ferent from others ; he may have higher ideals.
Have I the right to judge before I know him?
Besides, he comes recommended by my friend
Wright, who, with his extensive knowledge of
human nature and life, surely would not give
me wrong advice. But how did Wright make
his acquaintance? Wright is certainly not a
fool; he would not rashly recommend this
Mr. Van Hoover and me to each other. What
does it all mean? Should I regard this cir
cumstance as a turn for the better promised
by the stars?"
Although we occidental scientists have not
all the knowledge of the old Chaldean magi,
nor that of Oriental adepts, to clear up the
problems of life with ease and assurance, I
welcomed every opportunity that presented
itself in my daily life to verify the claims of
those Orientals and of the hypothesis of as
trology as to what influence the planets exert
over human life.
I chanced to look at an astrological symbol
on the wall with underneath a few lines from
Shakespeare :
"/ find my zenith doth depend upon a most
13
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
auspicious star."
That gave me an idea ! —
Yes ! ... let me have a consultation
with my Hindu friend Ramakaswanka—the
wise man from the East.
I found him waiting for me. Smilingly he
welcomed me with the words from Shakes
peare :
"/ know thy constellation is right apt for
this affair!"
"You know already?" I said, inquisitively,
but not entirely surprised as I knew his inner
powers.
"In nature's infinite book of secrecy a little
I can read," he quoted again from Shakes
peare.
"I know you can ! More than you will ad
mit. Tell me, shall I accept the proposition
made to me?"
"Your intuition—your Inner Self—answers
'yes' —nevertheless we are allowed to seek
verification."
He went to his desk, offered me a chair, and
began to calculate. Soon he had a "Chart of
the Heavens" with the positions of the planets
in the zodiacal signs. Following the rules of
the ancient Chaldean and Egyptian scientists
14
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
of judging such a chart, we concluded from it
that all seemed favorable. I was now quite
sure, I should accept. Nevertheless, on my
way home, I sent my friend Wright the fol
lowing telegram —seeking confirmation:
William Wright
2454 Thirty Sixth Avenue New York
What is Van Hoover's object Is proposition
made me in accordance with my life principles
Wire answer Hartford
Early next morning Ireceived the following
night letter:
Dr Henry Hartford Bay View Berkley Cal
Van Hoover is fine fellow you will like him
splendid character unselfish lives simply
although millionaire high ideals man of the
new age good motive in proposition conform
your ideals work together for betterment race
do accept will not regret I recommend on my
own responsibility Wright
His telegram confirmed many things my
Hindoo friend and I had interpreted from the
chart: "Harmonious co-operation with a
wealthy man of high ideals and splendid char
acter; work involved of a humanitarian na
ture; occupation honorable and pleasant;
plenty of money; much traveling, voyage in
the very near future; mysticism and occult
15
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ism involved ; many adventures ; many friends
and—powerful enemies; some mysterious
losses, opposition and danger!"
The latter indication of adversities: en
emies, losses, opposition and danger, made a
strong appeal to me as it gave promise of an
opportunity to demonstrate just how far we
are masters of our destiny by avoiding ob
stacles and overcoming oppositions which
may come in our path.
"And, after all, what of it," I thought, "if
we have to have some thrills in life caused by
dangerous adventures or oppositions? It will
at least banish the dull and monotonous!"
16
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
n
Wondrous truths and manifold as wondrous,
uoa hath written in those stars above.
—Longfellow.
Ana the thoughts of men are widened with
the process of the suns. —Tennyson.
A FTER notifying Mr. MacDonald of my
**. decision to accept Mr. Van Hoover's of
fer, I began at once to prepare for my depar
ture. The task was about as difficult — the
time being so short — as any I have ever ex
perienced. However, I was ready on the eve
ning before the day of sailing.
In Mr. MacDonald's letter, which I had re
ceived in reply to my acceptance of Mr. Van-
Hoover's proposition, was enclosed a check
for five hundred dollars and a photograph of
the 'Andromeda.'
I wondered whether the yacht was already
in the harbor. Having a splendid view from
my window of the bay of San Francisco, I
took my field-glasses and tried to locate her.
At last I saw a vessel which seemed to be like
the photograph —. Yes — no doubt about it;
there she lay!
17
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
I confess I was becoming over-anxious to
start my adventurous voyage as I looked at
the graceful, white yacht with her cream-col
ored funnels, cradled in the embrace of the
blue waters of the bay, and bathed in the glory
of the setting sun, making her supreme above
all her surroundings.
Is it any wonder that the sight of such
a beautiful picture should influence my
thoughts, and give rise to dreams and desires
of the unusual — the unknown?
Was it any wonder that my dreams should
carry me away to those beautiful islands of
the South Seas and the mysterious ancient
countries of the Orient? Or that I should
muse on what might be the purpose of this
voyage in this time of war,*) even though
America was not at war with any country and
seemed unlikely to be?
Why did not Mr. MacDonald mention the
fact of the dangers of traveling at this time?
Why did I fail to consider the foolishness of
traveling and of risking my life and that of
others?
Was it because here, in the West, Californ
*) For reasons that will become clearer later
uu, ine reader should keep in mind that this
awry is laid out as occurring during a period
ueiore the United States entered the world war
or 1314-1918.
18
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ians seem at peace, enjoying life as usual:
going to shows, dances — dining and drink
ing — and amusing themselves as if there
were no suffering over there in the warring
countries? Was I influenced by the same
spirit of indifference? Was it because I had
given up reading about the war as a waste of
time, while I had many other problems, and
work to do? Or was it my natural indiffer
ence to danger and death?
But then ! What about Mr. Van Hoover?
What about his men ,whose lives he was risk
ing in this voyage?
It is true, there were other steamers of
neutral countries sailing from here to the Ori
ent and back ; and also true that the dangers
and risks of encountering submarines and
mines were at least as yet slight in the Pa
cific Ocean.
Then my mind reverted to the 'chart of the
heavens' in which I had read of danger and
enemies; but it might mean enemies who have
nothing to do with war.
Whatever may come, I cannot now resign ;
the call of the unknown has been heard and
answered. With these reflections I cast a last
glance at the 'Andromeda.*
When afterwards I reached the street on
19
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
my way to dinner, it was already dark. And
while standing at the corner trying to decide
which restaurant to patronize, an automobile
stopped in front of me and a voice called :
"Hallo, Doc ! What the d—1 are you doing
nowadays? By George! I wish I could join
you! Anyhow, I hope those d—d devils of
submarines are not going to spoil your ap
petite by sending a torpedo through your
stomach! But, say, what are you standing
here for?"
Looking up I saw one of my friends, Frank
Johnson, to whom I had sent notice of my in
tended voyage — a young fellow with a good
heart, but who spent his life and money in
idleness and foolishness, caring nothing for
the improvement of mind and spirit.
I do not know why he was attracted to me,
as he apparently considered my ideas of oc
cultism and ideals for a better world very
foolish. Yet, he seemed to be very fond of
me.
Not replying quickly enough to his remarks,
he continued :
"Come! Be a sport! Jump in and let us
go to the show! I have to eat first though!
Have you had your dinner?"
"No," I replied, "not yet; I was just going
20
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to Collwine's."
"Well then, jump in! We'll have dinner
together in Oakland. D—n this dry town;
you can't get a drink here ! And I am as
thirsty as a horse — !"
I hesitated ; I knew the restaurants were
better in Oakland — and I was very hungry.
"Let her go !" I said, stepping in and taking
a seat by his side ; "I am very hungry, so you
will have to hurry, as I have not had much
food today; yet, on scientific principles we
can do with less food —" '
"Now, cut out that nonsense!" he inter
rupted. "No wonder you are thin and — and
_ >»
"Now what? and — and —," I said smiling.
He knew very well that, though my body was
slender, I had enough flesh and muscles cov
ering my bones to compete with him, though
not in weight, certainly in health and strength.
He laughed, then said :
"So, you are going to leave us. But tell me,
what's the idea?"
I related all I thought wise to tell. He
would not understand the higher motives I
had in accepting this position.
"Well, by jove ! old boy, I'm glad for you !
And Bill Wright is a d—n good fellow to
21
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
recommend you! I like him though he is as
foolish as you — with his nonsense of reform,
and his constant agitation against war; —
let them fight over there and decrease the
over-population of Europe! The fittest will
survive! Let us take care of ourselves or
others will take advantage of us and grasp
the opportunity we should have !"
I had no time to reply, as we had now ar
rived at our restaurant and were soon seated
at a table, each having chosen our special kind
of food, and for my friend a bottle of wine.
We talked about many things while we en
joyed the excellently cooked and well served
meal. Johnson's joviality made me forget the
time, and so it was very late when we finished,
and the "Newsies" were calling their wares
when my friend drove me home.
22
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
III
There are more things In heaven and earth,
Horatio, than are dreampt of In your philosophy.
—Shakespeare.
y WENT to bed with the newspaper, read
* some headlines —through half closed
eyes—followed some telegrams about the
war, half-consciously read about warships and
airplanes, about big guns, torpedoes and sub
marines; and on another page I read some
thing about the "Andromeda'; then . . .
then
I could only remember that I was lying on a
long rattan chair on the deck of the yacht, en
joying an after lunch siesta, reading an Oak
land paper while all around, as far as the eyes
could reach, nothing but water, the blue sky
and a burning tropical sun above me. I won
dered how many days we had been traveling.
It must have been weeks, because, about one
week ago we were in Honolulu, where we
spent two days sightseeing.
But how did we get on board, Mr. MacDon-
ald, Johnson, and I?
We had had a nice lunch together, and
Johnson chatted and laughed in his usual way,
23
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
making jokes on Wright's ideas and my
methods of healing. Even the grave Mr.
MacDonald could not resist the jovial spirit
of Johnson.
But where was Van Hoover? . . .
The weather began to change; a heavy
wind was rising, and dark clouds gathering
into a storm ; the sea sweeping over the yacht,
tossing her about as though it were a toy,
giving me an odd feeling.
Johnson came up on deck, complaining
about a strange gnawing in his stomach and
head, and laughingly said : "It must be a tor
pedo that tickles me in the stomach." —Then
came Wright with an umbrella ; and a funny
appearance he made ! While we were stand
ing together, trying to keep our balance and
clinging to the side rail, we heard a voice
calling from the bridge :
"A submarine ! A submarine ! —"
A second later a torpedo came flying over
the deck, taking all three of us with it on its
top ! We flew far away from the yacht ! We
could see the 'Andromeda' sailing straight
ahead now, at full speed, and following us the
submarine ! — Imagine our surprise !
Closer and closer it came, until we were
24
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
summoned to surrender. When we refused,
another torpedo was fired, but did not harm
us. I jumped on top of
it,
changed its direc
tion and was carried away up in the air, fol
lowed by Wright under his umbrella, which
now, looking larger, seemed to have changed
into
a
parachute.
"But Johnson, where
is
he?"
I
thought.
Too late
!
—
I
saw him,
a
prisoner on the sub
marine
!
I
felt sorry for the boy, but
I
could not re
turn. Higher and higher we flew, Wright and
I,
up and up into the clouds, and when we
came out,
I
noticed that my torpedo and
Wright's parachute had changed into an air
plane. We were seated quietly side by side,
Wright steering.
We were above the clouds: we could see
lights — and still flying higher and higher
with
a
speed like that of
a
falling object, but
beyond the attractive power of the earth—
and were being carried in the opposite direc
tion, as
if
an unseen power were drawing us
with an attraction we could not resist.
We saw the moon, but we were evidently
not going there. We passed one planet, then
another — With
a
never slackening speed we
flew and flew, until we saw
a
star, whose
25
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
volume became larger and larger as we came
nearer. Then a strange, giddy feeling came
over me when I saw it was coming straight
towards us as if to engulf us, airplane and all,
in one of its mighty oceans or pools, or what
ever those dark spots might prove to be.
I closed my eyes, trembling and dizzy; —
when I ventured to look again I could hardly
believe my eyes, for below us stretched a
scene of unmatched beauty — a veritable par
adise, with here and there beautiful homes,
artistic buildings, bridges, and towers, sur
rounded by gardens in which fountains
played. Over mountains and valleys we flew,
across continents filled with cities from shore
to shore.
Our eyes rested on gardens of flowers and
fields of wheat ; orchards and vineyards, with
blossoms and fruits ; everywhere beauty and
art. In every country, in every city, we could
see contented, happy, healthy people, work
ing under favorable conditions, living in these
beautiful homes. We, too, were happy, en
joying this strange trip ; we too, were blessed
and delighted, seeing nothing but happiness
and joy, and peace, and beauty !
We saw no prisons, no courthouses, no
slums, nor poorhouses; no forts, soldiers, war
26
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ships, submarines, guns, nor arms! Neither
could we find — although looking with clair
voyant eyes — thrones with kings or emper
ors; no millionaires, no poor, suffering, hard
working people !
Nothing but a vibration of delight, happi
ness, and peace — a Paradise made manifest.
Even the animals seemed content. We saw
nowhere slaughterhouses, as these happy peo
ple appeared able to live healthily without
eating the flesh of their fellow-creatures.
A strange feeling crept over us when we
saw children playing with lions and tigers,
and other creatures of which the earth-in
habitants have such fear.
"Oh, what beautiful children!" I ex
claimed. "Look at that boy! Look at that
girl! — "
"Let us return now, Henry!" Wright inter
rupted, "Van Hoover is waiting for us!"
"Oh no — no! Let us stay here! Let us
go down and live with these happy people. I
can never live happily again when I return to
earth. Oh, do ! please, let us stay !" I pleaded,
as he steered away from this wonderful plan
et, "please, leave me here — alone — without
you, if you do not care to stay!"
Tears clouded my eyes. I stretched out my
27
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
arms to the people, as if asking for assistance
to remain with them rather than to go back
again. As I looked at them, at their loving
features, and clairvoyantly comprehending
their unselfish hearts, it was hard to resist
their inviting gestures, hearing their sweet
voices, vibrating with love and goodwill,
beckoning us to come down and to stay with
them.
When our plane seemed stationary in the
air, flowers were thrown in our direction.
Even the birds, large and small, seemed to in
vite us with their songs, flying without fear
around us, and some even perched on my arms
and shoulders, and I took them in my hands
and kissed them.
Even the birds could love! And I loved
them; so it was hard to part from them. I
could scarcely restrain my tears, being so
deeply moved, and with deep reproach in my
voice I cried out when Wright moved the
plane again :
"Oh, why are you so cruel, to take me from
them?"
As my friend turned his head toward me, I
saw that his eyes, too, were wet. With a sob
and in a soft trembling voice, in which I
sensed his own great sympathy, he said :
28
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Dear friend, we have our duty to perform
on earth ; it is not yet our time to enjoy this
paradise and live among such highly evolved
and superior beings. Our duty is to make our
earth as beautiful as this planet
is,
and the
people there as happy and peaceful as these
people are. You cannot be entirely happy
if
you think of your suffering friends and fellow
creatures on earth. You are not so selfish as to
be unwilling to do your bit for the betterment
of the race on the poor world of ours. You
are not such
a
coward as to object to battling
against all that
is
wrong and unfair, even
though you may have to fight to the bitter
end. Cannot you see that
it
is
because you
are worthy and able that you were chosen to
work with Van Hoover, side by side, and
shoulder to shoulder in this war against the
dark powers and enemies of mankind? Be
cause you are worthy you have been allowed
to visit this beautiful planet and see these
harmonious and happy people. The rays of
this wonderful planet will have
a
greater
meaning and influence every time
it
is
in as
pect with the earth. By knowing this you can
thus aid in uplifting men, inspiring them to
noble deeds of unselfishness and love, and
the outcome will be
a
beautiful earth with
a
29
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
harmonious and happy people."
As he spoke we were flying so rapidly away
from the happy planet, that it now looked
small again like an ordinary star.
The nearer we came to earth the more de
pressed we felt; our hearts ached as we en
tered the earth's atmosphere of turmoil and
hate — now we were within hearing of gun
firing, explosions and the noises of hell.
Louder and louder became these satanic
sounds, mingled with shrieks of pain and de
spair, curses, blashphemous words — thoughts
of men and demons were intermingled as if
untold billions of spirits or demons were re
leased from hell to assist and enjoy this tre
mendous bloodshed — this murder on a large
scale !
I became sick and miserable, and despair
overmastered my hope — my heart longed
to go back to that peaceful planet. I could
not longer endure it and once more I begged
Wright to take me back and leave me there
forever.
On — on — away we flew over the ocean ;
far, far away, with a speed I cannot describe,
in a space of time I cannot guess, until we saw
land again and then another ocean.
30
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Faster yet we flew — still faster — until we
saw the "Andromeda," the beautiful yacht,
with her peaceful aspect and her radiant aura.
As we drew nearer I saw Mr. MacDonald
waving his handkerchief and smiling — then
we were on deck by his side, and I so tired
and dizzy, it seemed as if I could not stand —
I was hungry — sleepy — sick and miserable.
Vaguely, I remember that Mr. MacDonald
and Wright supported me to my berth in my
cabin, where I slept
I awoke the next morning with an odd feel
ing of surprise and bewilderment. I did not
know where I was; I even doubted whether
I was awake or dreaming. Had I not yet been
on board? Had I yet to leave, or had I been
sleeping for days as my dream suggested?
Was the "Andromeda" still in the bay? Sup
pose she had gone without me?
Not until the clock struck seven and I saw
my trunk and suitcase in one corner of my
room, did I get my bearings at all ; even then
so strong was the influence of my dream upon
me that I was impelled to take my field glasses
and look out of my window to make sure.
Behold there she lay, still and peaceful,
bathed in the glorious sunshine of the beauti
31
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ful day — inviting me to come.
IV
ureal objects form great minds. —Emmons,
waving a good soul I received a good body.
—Budda.
HpHE time to leave shore was set for three
.*.
p.m., as the yacht was to sail at five.
I had plenty of time to make my last ar
rangements. I had left the morning hours
free for the last goodbye's to some friends.
I expected Mr. MacDonald at half past two
with a taxicab. He was on time and soon we
were at the pier, and found the yacht's launch
awaiting us. Fortunately my baggage had
been delivered in good order.
We spoke but little on our way to the yacht.
I was too deeply absorbed in thought, my
dream being still a vivid memory. Perhaps,
Mr. MacDonald thought I was depressed at
leaving country and friends for an unknown
destination. Whatever his thoughts might
have been he was showing good cheer, talk
ing now and then of current events and mat
ters in general, in which I must have shown
very little interest.
As we came nearer to that mysterious yacht,
32
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
I could not help conjecturng as to her destiny,
with her mysterious owner. I could come to no
definite conclusion, however, though I knew
better than I did before — at least if my
dream had any significance — that it was the
promise of an eventful life.
Still gazing at her graceful lines, her smok
ing funnels showing all was in readiness to
leave, we drew up alongside the yacht.
As I climbed the ladder, I saw a pleasant,
handsome looking, well dressed young man,
standing at the rail of the upper deck.
When we reached the deck, Mr. MacDon-
ald introduced me to Mr. Van Hoover.
I was very favorably impressed by his
cleancut, handsome face, broad forehead,
bright yet soft and expressive eyes, Grecian
nose, well formed lips, and broad chin ; while
his cranium was remarkable for its brain cap
acity — a face and head on which the Venus-
Jupiter-Uranus influences were strongly
marked, which delineated a strong, splendid
character, spiritually inclined, an excellent
mentality, great determination and will-pow
er, accentuated by his commanding bearing.
Moreover, he impressed me as belonging
to the Aquarians of the New, or Aquarian
33
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
He welcomed me with a
pleasant smile and a warm
handclasp, saying:
"I am glad you have ac
cepted my proposition, Doc
tor Hartford, as our mutual
friend Wright seemed posi
tive that we could work to
gether and I wish you to feel
that we are to be co-work
ers and friends." His voice
was vibrant with power and
magnetism.
"I am much honored, Mr.
Van Hoover," I answered,
"by your confidence as well
as by your goodwill and
friendship. Also I thank you very much for
the opportunity I shall have to do my share
towards the success of whatever enterprise in
which you are to engage."
"I thank you," he said, smiling, "for accept
ing this position, thus enabling me to do more,
as two can do more than one. Mr. MacDonald
will show you to your cabin, as I have to ar
range with Captain Burton for our departure.
I will see you later at tea, which will be served
Sec Footnote on Page 36
34
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
on the aft deck."
"If my first impression is right," I remarked
to Mr. MacDonald, as Mr. Van Hoover left,
"I think we shall be able to work very harmon
iously together. I believe he can inspire men
to great things."
"I am glad you like him," Mr. MacDonald
replied. "Yes, he is an exception among men
of his class; you will find that out soon
enough."
As we reached the end of a passage, he
opened the door, inviting me to enter, saying :
"Here is your cabin." '
I could hardly believe my eyes, as I saw the
cosy room. Opposite the door was a window,
to the right stood a roll top desk, on which
were two beautiful statues: 'Inspiration' and
'Aspiration.' Before the desk was an office
chair, at the right stood a revolving bookcase,
and to the left, under the window, a small
typewriter table. Hanging above the desk
was a painting, "The Dawn of a New Age,"
by Ledeboer. On the opposite wall another
painting, "Towards a Higher Evolution," by
Viola Van Hoover.*) In one corner stood a
* The illustrations 2 and 3 are not reproduc
tions of the paintings by Ledeboer and Viola
Van Hoover, respectively, but symbolic of the
new or aquarian age, harmonizing, however,
with the paintings.
35
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
small table, on which was a
bowl of exquisite flowers; be
side
it,
a
large armchair.
Walls and ceiling were
made of palissander wood in
soft cream and yellow.
A
door at the right opened
into
a
completely equipped
chemical laboratory and doc
tor's office.
To the left of the study was
a
bedroom comfortably fur
nished, and from this room
a
door opened into
a
completely
equipped bathroom.
I
noted that my trunk and
suitcase had already been
placed in the bedroom.
Mr. MacDonald remarked,
as he turned to leave
:
"The steward or cabin boy
will help you to unpack
if
you
desire. Here
is
a
button for the
electric bell: ring once for the steward and
twice for the boy."
*)
Illustration
1
illustrates the form of head and
features of an Aquarian with whom the author
became acquainted —a case which may convince
any other earnest and unbiased student of truths
and facts regarding astrology.
"Towards
a
Higher
Evolution"
See footnote, Page
3
5
36
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
I thanked him and busied myself getting
settled in my new quarters.
"The Dawn of a New Age"
Sec footnote on Page ^35
37
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
•mere is a woman at the beginning of all
great things. —Lamartine.
Her look Is Uke those tranquil eventides,
Where mystic love in beauty's home abides.
—David Lowe.
It was not quite four o'clock when I was
ready to go on deck. As Mr. Van Hoover said
tea was to be served on the aft deck, I made
my way aft, where another surprise awaited
me.
A row of large beautiful palms, arranged in
a semicircle across the deck, screened off the
companion way that led to the hold, and at
the same time afforded a cosy nook, in the
protecting shelter of: which a rattan table and
chairs were placed for the serving of tea or
refreshments. Placed in the center of the
table was a large bowl filled with beautiful
flowers. Seated here one had an unob
structed view over sides and aft of the ship.
No one had yet arrived, but soon I heard
voices and in a moment I noticed Mr. Van
Hoover with an elderly lady by his side ; Mr.
MacDonald accompanied by a young lady; a
middle-aged man in uniform accompanied by
another young lady. I did not expect ladies
38
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
on board. "Perhaps visitors," I thought,
"friends of Van Hoover."
As they came nearer I could not help notic
ing the unusual grace and beauty of the young
lady at Mr. MacDonald's side. In a flash it
came into my mind that I had seen her before
— "but where?" -~ I mused, "she certainly
looks familiar to me !"
Mr. Van Hoover brought me back to my
self by saying :
"Ah! Doctor Hartford, you are here al
ready, I see ! Let me introduce you to my
mother."
Then taking me by the arm, he led me to the
beautiful young lady, saying :
"My sister Viola."
She put out her beautiful hand, her soft,
lovely eyes looked straight at me, her voice
sounding like music as she spoke :
"Glad to see you here, Doctor Hartford!"
" — To see you here — " Her musical voice
still sounded in my ear when Mr. Van Hoover
introduced me to the other young lady :
"Miss Judith Shetland."
Absent-mindedly I extended my hand to
her, and in the short contact sensed the total
difference in character of the two young lad
ies. Mr. Van Hoover then introduced me to
39
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Captain Burton.
"And now feel yourself one of us, Doctor,"
said he, motioning me to a chair. All being
seated, Mrs. Van Hoover turned to me with :
"Well, Doctor Hartford, are you not sur
prised at seeing ladies on board?"
"Indeed, Mrs. Van Hoover, I had no idea
there were to be ladies here, but I suppose, of
course, you wish to see your son off. Do you
return by train?"
"Oh no! Certainly not! We are to be of
the party ! I could not allow my son to leave
his mother and sister alone, while he is carry
ing out his plans, for we are as much inter
ested in them as he. Then, we are not of the
hothouse or parasite type of women, or as
birds in a cage, and, as such, unfit for import
ant work ; besides he is my only son and I wish
to be near him as long as I live !"
"But, Mrs. Van Hoover, do you not think
there is much danger in such a trip for women,
especially in this time of war?"
"Well, but Doctor Hartford, is there more
danger for women than for men? Or do you
think women are the cause of more danger if
they are on board? Why are you men always
speaking of women as the 'weaker sex' — ?"
"Oh, pardon me, Mrs. Van Hoover," I broke
40
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
in, for I was half afraid I had offended her, "I
did not mean it in that sense. I know very
well there are weaklings among men and
strong characters among women. Undoubt
edly you ladies are of the latter type ; never
theless, you will grant me, you ladies are an
exception !"
"Yes, but — "
"Oh mother," Miss Van Hoover interrupted
with a charming smile, thus tactfully stopping
further discussion, as the steward was bring
ing the tea. "Shall I now serve tea?"
"Yes, dear," her mother replied; then turn
ing to me :
"Well, doctor, I hope we shall have the
pleasure of many talks as the days go by."
"I am sure we shall!" I said, casting my
eyes on the graceful Miss Viola.
The tea caused a change in the conversa
tion, and after a while Mr. Van Hoover said
to me:
"Doctor, we shall sail at five o'clock, and as
the officials will be on board very soon, your
presence will be required for the formalities.
You have, of course, been to the marine office,
as Mr. MacDonald advised you in his letter?"
"Oh yes," I replied, "I have been there; I
have my passport and the other papers."
41
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Then the ladies will excuse us."
With these words Mr. Van Hoover rose,
followed by the captain, Mr. MacDonald, and
myself. We had not long to wait, as a steam
launch approached with our pilot and the of
ficials on board. The latter examined our
papers, and finding them satisfactory took
their departure, while the pilot went to the
bridge, and Mr. MacDonald and I returned to
the ladies.
"Pleasant voyage, ladies," said Mr. Mac
Donald, "till we meet again! May every
thing be satisfactory! Good bye!" ,
I was surprised ; I was under the impression
Mr. MacDonald was to be one of our party.
Turning to me, he said :
"Doctor Hartford, I hope you will find your
change of occupation favorable in every way ;
I am sure you will have no regrets, notwith
standing the difficulties that may arise in the
future — I believe you are a man who has suf
ficient courage and determination to help Mr.
Van Hoover to succeed. Pleasant voyage;
we shall meet again. Good bye!"
Then, giving us all a hearty handshake, he
left.
The ladies and I followed Mr. MacDonald
42
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to the companion ladder, where we waved
him a final good-bye.
The whistle sounded and the yacht now
moved in the direction of the Golden Gate.
Passing the ferry building, we soon had a
view of the grounds, where once stood those
magnificent buildings and palaces of the
world's greatest Exposition —buildings and
monuments of man's creative power and gen
ius: an Exposition gone as a dream into the
archives of time, while on the other side of the
globe destruction still took place. What a
struggle of forces for supremacy ! Here had
been shown all the constructive abilities of
the human mind; over there the paramount
issue is to destroy, to tear down what ages of
human endeavor have created.
This thought brought me back to the time
when I had visited the Exposition ; wandering
from place to place, from palace to palace.
Then I recalled that marvelous sculpture of
Italian art, and the 'one' statue that impressed
me so much—then, like a flash, I seemed to see
a familiar face—was it a dream, or was it
reality? Was it a face of marble, or a face
of flesh?—Could it be true? Was it the same
face I now saw here before me? —Was it 'she'?
— And as I stared so long at Miss Viola's
43
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
beautiful inspirational face, she asked :
"What are you thinking about, doctor?"
looking at me with her expressive eyes as
though she had read my thoughts. "I also at
tended the Exposition and I well remember
the beautiful display of art in sculpture and
painting. The Italian sculptors especially are
geniuses. Don't you think so?"
"Oh yes," I replied, nervously, "I agree with
you. For instance the statue of 'Inspiration'
so fascinated me that I visited it again and
again ! One could hardly find anything more
beautiful and, oddly enough, I find the same
statue on the desk in my cabin !"
She did not reply, but I thought I read in
her face an expression of satisfaction and
agreement with my remark. Mrs. Van Hoover,
overhearing me, said:
"I am glad we are of the same mind, doc
tor, and I hope you will find opportunity to
tell us more of your impressions of the mar
velous Exposition. Was it not grand — won
derful?"
"Indeed, it was I" I replied.
In the meantime we were approaching the
ocean ; soon we should pass the Presidio and
Fort Scott on the left and Point Bonita on the
right.
44
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Indeed, a magnificent view presented itself
on every side. In the distance the Pacific
Ocean : the radiant beams of the now setting
sim played on its waves, producing a various
play of colors which was reflected over the
entire scene.
The shore, with here and there buildings
and bungalows, between the green hills, was
clearly outlined by the ocean; and its foam
ing waves were breaking on the sand and
rocks, as if trying to disturb its peacefulness.
The weather was especially beautiful, the
evening cool, one of those evenings on the
West Coast of America that bring sensitive
souls Tn Tune With The Infinite.'
"
As if by mutual understanding, no one
spoke, realizing the futility of words to ex
press the, beauties of the scene now unfolding
before us like a panorama.
Presently I recognized in Miss Viola's eyes
the eager appreciative look of the artist, and
in their hidden depths I read the soul of the
mystic.
I, too, was under the spell of the moment.
What I beheld was a picture of art and beau
ty: the mighty ocean with its restless foaming
waves; its background this wonderful sun
set, the sunbeams playing over the moving
45
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
water; and, in the foreground, this graceful
girl with her radiant, beautiful face, and ex
pressive eyes.
"Surely, this girl must be keenly receptive
to the marvels and mysteries of nature," I
thought.
Miss Viola evidently felt the intensity of my
gaze, for she turned her sweet face toward me
and our eyes met. Oh, those eyes of hers!
She did not speak, and I — well — I was
so confused, I could not find words to cover
my embarrassment.
Miss Shetland, who had been talking to
Mrs. Van Hoover, turned her head towards us,
saying:
"The pilot is leaving, Miss Viola. It is al
ready six o'clock. Shall I help you dress?"
"Oh no, not yet! It is too beautiful here!
I wish to enjoy a little longer this wonderful
evening, this glorious sunset ! It will be dark
soon enough! But mother will be wanting
you." Then to her mother: "Can I help you,
mother?"
"No, dear. Judith will be kind enough to
lend me a hand. But don't stay too long on
deck; we will have dinner at seven." And
turning to me: "You will excuse us, Doctor
Hartford."
46
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
I soon learned that Miss Viola had an ex
cellent education, and an extensive know
ledge of many subjects, in all of which she
showed a clear understanding and logic, sel
dom found in women of her age.
I was enjoying her company and our con
versation very much. I confess the time
passed too rapidly for me.
Mr. Van Hoover came down from the
bridge, and approaching us, said :
"Well, have you enjoyed this beautiful eve
ning? I take it as a good omen. Captain
Burton is in good spirits; he thinks we shall
have good weather for at least a week."
"If we could have more evenings like this,
I shall not complain," said Miss Viola, "but,
Reynold, I shall have to get ready for dinner
—. Mother and Judith have already gone, so
you and Doctor Hartford will, please, excuse
me !" With a quick sideglance at me, she was
gone.
"Let us do likewise, doctor — we can talk
more comfortably after dinner, and tomorrow
we shall have our first council and arrange
matters for our work."
47
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
VI
A fair test and measure of civilization is the
Influence of good women. —Emerson.
The first duty to children is to make them
happy. If you have not made them so, you have
wronged them. No other good they may get
can make ud for that. —Buxton.
A SI entered the dining room —followed
shortly after by the ladies — Mr. Van-
Hoover and Captain Burton were standing
by the fireplace in earnest conversation. They
turned on seeing us; and Mr. Van Hoover
came forward, leading me to the dining table.
When we were seated I found myself between
brother and sister, Mrs. Van Hoover to the
right of her son, followed by Miss Shetland,
then Captain Burton.
The large round dining table was spread
with all the appointments of wealth and re
finement: snowy damask, ciystal glassware,
and shining silver, sparkling in a profusion of
tiny electric lights, placed in the center of a
garland of beautiful flowers, arranged in the
form of a zodiac. In the center of the table
was a large crystal bowl, filled with the most
exquisite flowers I had ever seen. It was like
a scene from fairy-land.
"What beautiful flowers," I observed. "You
48
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
have rare taste and appreciation of the beau
ties of nature."
"We like flowers," Mr. Van Hoover replied,
"and as we cannot have them fresh every day
on a voyage like this, they will be a treat once
in a while on our departure from a harbor."
"It is a pity we cannot get them every
where so beautiful," Mrs. Van Hoover re
marked.
"No, not so beautiful as these," said Cap
tain Burton, "although in Honolulu, and other
tropical climates you find exquisite flowers,
but not, perhaps, in such variety."
"Your brother has rare taste and unique
ideas," I said to Miss Viola; "this round table,
arranged for six, and the tiny lights set in zod
iac; he must be a 'circular philosopher' as
Emerson said, believing all things go in cir
cles."
"You are right," she replied, "my brother
believes that environment has a great effect
upon the mind. Is it not true that the round
table has an advantage over the square one?
It may seem foolish, this question, but why do
people prefer white to black table cloths? Is
it not true that nature generally shuns black?
Does not the mind instinctively turn to bright
colors? Did you ever see a black flower —
49
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
entirely black without any other color be
tween or at the border?"
"No," I replied, "I cannot remember ever
having seen such a flower — no, I am quite
sure I have not ; still they may exist."
"If they do, they are not in the gardens,"
she said, positively.
"Excuse me, Viola," her brother interrupt
ed, "I know a flower which has a name almost
like yours, — commonly called pansy — It
is true, however, that it is not entirely black,
having yellow veins and yellow stamens in
it."
"Even so," I said, "I quite agree with Miss
Viola that bright colors have more attraction.
One has but to read Babbit's work on light
and color to be convinced of the great influ
ence color plays in human life ; for instance,
no up-to-date physician allows his patients to
be suiTounded by black furnishings, for he
understands the value of, colors."
"Another important factor in human life
is sunshine," remarked Mrs. Van Hoover, now
entering the discussion. "While modern physi
cians are recognizing the value of sunshine,
the old timers thought differently. About
twenty years ago I had occasion to go contrary
to a physician's view in the case,
itj
being that
50
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
of my younger sister. He forbade her to leave
her room. But as she did not improve, I put
her on the balcony in the sunshine, and she
was better at once. When the doctor came,
he was quite irritated, but I persisted in re
peating the action daily, and my sister's re
covery was rapid. After that, I had such faith
in the magnetism and warmth of the divine
sunbeams that I practically raised both my
children out of doors."
"And proud you may be, Mrs. Van Hoover,"
Captain Burton remarked. "The results is
seen in the splendid physical and mental con
dition of both your children. The world
would be better if there were more such
mothers."
"Yes," replied Mrs. Van Hoover, "but the
majority seem to think it too great a burden
and responsibility to rear children."
"That is all very well," Miss Viola said with
some warmth, "but how many are deprived
of the necessary means of bringing up chil
dren? How many are living in houses in
which the sun never penetrates — in sur
roundings and circumstances where want
rules, and sickness is a toll that must be
paid?"
"It is often people's own fault that they
51
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
are poor and miserable," remarked Miss Shet
land. "There is opportunity enough to work
and earn a livelihood, at least in America,
where good wages are paid. Many are too
lazy to work and inclined to join the class
called I. W. W. — 'I won't work.'
"
"Yes, that is partly true," the captain re
marked, "though there are many who are not
able to find work with sufficient pay to raise
a large family."
"And rear them humanly," Mrs. Van
Hoover interjected.
"Yes," Captain Burton repeated, "rear
them in a human way; it is easy enough to
raise children on pork and beans, put them in
dirty beds at night, often the entire family
living in one dirty, filthy room."
Miss Shetland, not finding a better answer
at the moment, replied :
"But such conditions are found in the old
countries. It is not so in America."
"Pardon me, my dear," said Mrs. Van
Hoover, "those conditions are also found in
America, though not so frequently as in the
other parts of the world."
"But it has been so from the beginning of
the world, and it will always be." Miss Shet
land replied, seemingly unwilling to yield her
52
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
point.
"There again, we cannot agree with you,
Judith," Miss Viola remarked. "America of
today is not the America of a century ago.
The world of to-day is not the world of the
middle ages."
"I do not know how you can say that," Miss
Shetland returned warmly. "Was there ever
a more terrible or more barbarous war than
the one now raging in Europe? Does it not
show that men are still fighting animals? Are
not the prisons crowded with murderers, rob
bers, and other criminals — yes, and even
many more criminals outside of prison? And
are bribes not the usual thing in America, the
country of progress, 'Sweet Land of Liber
ty*?" And with an air of one who had con
quered in the debate, she finished her meal.
Having been so much more interested in
Miss Viola, I had given but little attention to
Miss Shetland. Now I observed her more
closely.
Though at first glance her face would not be
considered entirely unattractive, on closer ob
servation, however, one noted the sensuous
mouth, the hardness of the eyes, the heavy
jaws, and the nose resembling that of the He
brew. A small forehead, and evidently grow
53
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ing double chin, completed the impression of
a selfish soul with a biased mind. Already
too stout for her age, she seemed to think it
necessary to eat sufficient for two.
Van Hoover, who had talked but little dur
ing the meal looked at Miss Shetland with an
almost unnoticeable smile, his eyes showing
that he was meditating on his remark, and
spoke :
"You are right, Miss Shetland, from your
viewpoint, since it cannot be denied that
seemingly there has been no advancement in
the human race, so far as character and ac
tions are concerned. But we will talk about
it later. Since we have finished dinner, let us
adjourn to the salon, where we can be more
at ease."
Accordingly we arose. Turning to me, he
said:
"Doctor, I hope you have enjoyed your first
meal with us. Mother reared us very simply,
so if you have complaint to make, you know
where to deliver it. But as you have not
talked much, I hope later you will give us your
views on these world problems."
"The meal, though simple as you say, is
exactly to my taste," I responded. "Allow me
to compliment your cook."
54
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Captain Burton, overhearing my remark,
said:
"You are right, doctor. Our cook is an ar
tist in his line, and believes he is doing just as
great a work as a physician or skipper — he
takes great pride in his work."
"Indeed," said Mrs. Van Hoover, "there are
very few people who do their work whole
heartedly."
VII
Everywhere in life, the true question is not
what we gain, but what we do. —Carlyle.
Education in its widest sense includes every
thing that exerts a formative influence, and
causes a young person to be, at a given point,
what he Is. —Mark Hopkins.
I T would be a task, to even an artist at word
picturing, to do justice to the uniqueness, gen
ius, and beauty of the main salon which we
now entered. The thought that first came to
my mind was the newspaper head-lines, the
day the yacht arrived in San Francisco Bay:
"THE YACHT ANDROMEDA DROPPED
ANCHOR IN BAY; VERITABLE FLOAT
ING PALACE."
An involuntary exclamation fell from my
lips; I stood stock-still and stared in amaze
ment. The whole ceiling of the room was one
55
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
immense round dome of glass, to represent the
blue of the sky with its myriads of stars, now
lighted by electric globes so arranged as to
imitate the starry heavens. Never had I seen
anything so marvelous.
On the polished floor of inlaid wood were
strewn costly rugs from the Orient with here
and there interwoven symbolic designs. In
one end of the salon the gilded pipes of a
large built-in organ glistened in the blaze of
light. At the opposite end was an open fire
place in which played the electric flames of
an imitation log fire, and in front of its spaci
ous hearth were drawn up comfortable arm
chairs for six. At one side of the room stood
a piano.
Set in deep mouldings of either wall were
six panels of rich tapestry into each of which
was woven a sign of the zodiac. A few ap
propriate pieces of statuary, divans, and easy
chairs completed the furnishing.
We followed the lead of Mr. Van Hoover
and seated ourselves in front of the fire.
I could not refrain from expressing my ad
miration at the originality of the designer of
this room, and yet I was totally unprepared
for the astounding yet simple declaration of
Mr. Van Hoover's answer:
56 . • ,
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Yes, doctor, its beauty and art is all that
the most skilled workmen could produce, but
even this is surpassed by its immense utility.
Its inception was an effort on my part toward
a working model for students in the science
of astrology, and also to create an instrument
to aid in the working out of charts or horary
figures for masters of the art. Later I will
show you the mechanism for operating the
electri0 globes."
I could not then quite express my thoughts
and feelings, but remarked :
"In that case I shall want to come here
often!"
Miss Viola said, smilingly :
"Why should you not, if you want?"
I thought I should want to, but with her,
whose fascinating eyes were again penetrat
ing mine. It would not be tiresome chatting
with her. However, I replied only :
"Of course, I shall do it after my day's
work is done!"
Miss Viola, gazing into the fire as if to
change the thought currents, said :
"We were talking of the many poor crea
tures who are deprived of the comforts we are
now enjoying; people who cannot enjoy, as
we do now, a peaceful rest, a pleasant chat,
57
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
and a nice cup of coffee."
I put down my cup.
Miss Viola paused a moment when she saw
my movement ; then turning her eyes toward
me, continued:
"We may feel uncomfortable thinking of
the many, yet, let us be thankful we can do
something for the betterment of their social
condition."
"Yes," said Mr. Van Hoover, "that is what
we want to do, doctor. You understand, of
course, — for we have already explained how
surroundings affect people—one of the essen
tial things for reform is to give men better
surroundings; better, cleaner, sunnier homes;
better working conditions, parks, gardens,
andi other places of amusement. That means :
time for recreation ; time for mothers to care
for and educate their children; schools for
young and old to improve their minds, and
obtain understanding of life; and, not the
least of all, good food and the knowledge how
to prepare it."
"As this is so often spoken of," Mrs. Van
Hoover observed, "it is time to show what
can be done."
"It seems a useless work," Miss Shetland
sighed, "considering the few who are trying
58
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to reform, and the great number of people
who do not want to help —< yes, who even op
pose any reform ; and the still greater number
who are in need of it. It seems hopeless to
me. I maintain that humans are like animals,
absolutely selfish, full of hatred and wicked
ness, and born with the instinct to destroy."
"I am sorry, Judith," Mrs. Van Hoover said
with sympathy and understanding, "that you
fix your mind so much on the dark and wicked
side of life. Not that I am blind to the imper
fections of man, yet I do not think it hopeless
to change human character and existing con
ditions. But we must begin with ourselves
and our closest friends."
"Will you excuse me, Mrs. Van Hoover,"
Captain Burton said, looking from one to the
other, "as I can speak for you more freely
than you yourself care to. I should like to
call Miss Shetland's attention to the fact that
you have given an example of how one can
educate children to become useful members
of society. Your education, your wisdom,
your love, your care, your sense of duty have
formed their characters, and they are now
what you have made them : willing to do what
is right; unable to feel any hatred, loving
their fellow-men ; asking in their hearts with
50
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
words and deeds : 'What can I do for you, my
brother, my sister?' living up to the highest
that is in them. Your son and daughter will
in turn give the right education with love and
wisdom to their children, or to other children,
as they do not see strangers or foreigners in
the man, woman, or child they meet. Now
then, if every one of us begins with ourselves,
and our closest friends — as you have already
said — we shall have done something that will
bear fruit. We can at least improve our own
character and be examples." — Then, ad
dressing Miss Shetland directly, and looking
at her earnestly — "Miss Shetland, you have
not been among us long enough to know that
everyone on this yacht is happy, does his
work willingly, and is trying to follow the ex
ample of our leader, who puts into practice
what he believes."
I was much impressed by Captain Burton's
simple and enthusiastic speech, which I knew
was not meant for flattery — on the contrary,
one could feel the earnestness and upright
ness of the man's character in the very vibra
tion of his voice.
I noticed more thoroughly now his some
what round face ; his upper head was globu
lar, but had not the broad and high Uranian
60
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
skull as that of Van Hoover, yet, with his
brows, and intelligent looking brown eyes,
and the regular normal ears, nose, and mouth
— his mien spoke of intellect, firmness, and
determination. His sunburnt complexion was
no deterrent to the pleasant features indicat
ing a frank and honest man. His total ap
pearance suggested that he was born while
the sun was rising in the sign Leo.
"Now, captain," Miss Viola said, "you must
not overlook the fact that you would not be
one of us, if you had not the same inclination
for doing something for your fellow men ! Is
that not true, brother?"
"Birds of a feather flock together," laughed
Van Hoover.
"And like attracts like," Mrs. Van Hoover
added.
"You see, Miss Shetland," Captain Burton
said, quickly taking up the conversation, as
if to avoid the possibility of someone again
commenting on his goodness, "we have to
join forces with the good kind of people in
order to do something worth while for the
world ; then we shall be stronger to avoid and
oppose the bad influences of wicked people.
Even if we are harmed by others, we will not
let this make us bitter against a seemingly
61
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ungrateful world."
"It is all very well for you to speak in this
way, captain," Miss Shetland replied, with a
sad expression on her face, "but if you had
had the experiences I have, you would prob
ably be as bitter and sceptical as I. If I did
not believe that you people are an exception
to the general rule, death would be more
welcome to me than to live longer in this
world of human beasts, hypocrites, and liars.
I am thankful to you, Mrs. Van Hoover, for
your kindness in taking me away from those
brutes, and allowing me to stay with you."
Sobbing pitifully and hiding her face in her
handkerchief, she moaned: "Oh! the misery
and heartaches caused by those devils, I shall
never forget !"
Mrs. Van Hoover rose quickly, followed by
Miss Viola, and, putting her arm around the
weeping girl, led her from the room, saying :
"Now be quiet dear, and forget the past;
you are among friends ! Keep this thought
strongly before you !"
Silence fell among us for a time, then Cap
tain Burton remarked in a low voice :
"One of the cases of insufficient education
and adverse surroundings."
"Yes, but brought into her life by karmic
62
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
causes," said Van Hoover. "As you may ob
serve, she has many good qualities, but the
adverse, unfavorable side of her character is
overpowering her. She wants to be good, she
wants to be happy, but is not yet able to mas
ter herself. This is a case of strongly con
tradicting and antagonistic tendencies."
"She must have suffered deeply," said the
captain, sympathetically, "to have such bitter
feelings against men, and to be a disbeliever
in the betterment of the race."
Van Hoover proposed to have a walk on
deck. When we were strolling to and fro, he
remarked :
"If she could only see the purpose of life,
and understand the laws governing existence !
It is only because of her ignorance that she
suffers. If she in her past experiences could
have realized the relationship of human be
ings to each other, she would have escaped
many an evil effect and would have been hap
pier today, as happiness is the product of wis
dom."
"The trouble is," interrupted Burton, "peo
ple do not understand that knowledge and
wisdom will put an end to all suffering and
thus bring about happiness."
"That's just it!" continued Van Hoover,
63
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"But suffering will bring them knowledge,
and knowledge will push them forward into
evolution. Just as we feel safe on this yacht,
because you know the art of seafaring, so
spiritual illumination alone can light our
way,*) enabling us to move safely among the
rocks that lie before us." Then
turning toward me: "That is
one of the reasons, doctor, we
are not afraid to meet danger,
if need be, convinced as we
are, that the inner illumination
and the occult knowledge we
possess will help us to over
come dangers and avoid ob
stacles. There is much for us
to do, but knowledge, and
love, and wisdom will enable
us to succeed."
The ship's bell was sound
ing at this moment, giving the time as the be
ginning of the third watch. Captain Burton
had to leave us.
We were now alone, strolling to and fro on
*) Illustration 4 is symbolic of the course
of initiation into the secrets of life, to attain
Spiritual Illumination.—"There is no mystery
that may not be unsealed by him that hath the
unbiased mind and the •opened eye' of the
Seer."— The Riddle of the Sphinx.
64
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
deck. The calm ocean and the clear sky gave
me the feeling of delight and tranquility I al
ways had when on the sea. We did not speak
for some minutes, so occupied were we with
our thoughts.
Then Van Hoover began :
"As, I told you before, we should not talk
about our work and our plans until to-mor
row ; this evening I should like to hear some
thing about your experiences and studies, as
it will give me a 'line' on what I shall need to
speak about to-morrow."
He began asking me questions relating to
medical science ; by degrees our conversation
drifted to the subjects nearest our hearts, and
to my great delight I discovered he was an ad
vanced occult student as well.
So engrossed had we been in our talk, we
had not noticed the flight of time until Van
Hoover, taking out his watch, remarked :
"Well, doctor, two hours have passed. We
have had an interesting and profitable con
versation, and it shows that we are in perfect
accord. Indeed, it will make things easier for
me. Wright was correct when he said that
you were the man who could be my immediate
and most intimate helper. It has also veri
fied my first impression of you. Harmonious
65
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
and similar-minded people are necessary to
co-operate in any line of work to attain suc
cess. Burton, mother, Viola, MacDonald, and
Wright are also in the same vibration, but
every one has a different responsibility and a
different duty to perform. We need a man
of your capacity for the purpose we have in
view."
"I am much honored, Mr. Van Hoover," I
said, "by your estimate of me. Although I am
not perfect, and liable to make mistakes, I
assure you I will do all I can — that your cause
is my cause, your success my success. As I
now understand, our aspirations run parallel.
This mutual understanding is sufficient to
make me happy and enthusiastic for the work,
come what may !"
He put out his hand, saying :
"Thank you, doctor; we are more than
friends, and as you know the karmic law, you
understand what I mean. But it is already
time to retire. As we follow the rule of 'Early
to bed, and early to rise,' we will now go to
the salon and say 'good night' to the ladies."
Miss Viola was alone. As we entered she
rose, saying her mother and Miss Shetland
had retired. Shaking hands with me and kiss
ing her brother good night, she left the salon,
66
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Van Hoover and I following her example.
I was soon in bed and dreaming of those
whom I had begun to love as my own people.
, VIII
I never saw an eye so bright,
And yet so soft as hers;
It sometimes swam in liquid light,
And sometimes swam In tears;
It seemed a beauty set apart
For softness and for sighs.
—Mrs. Welby.
* * *
All nature is but art unknown to thee,
All chance direction which thou canst not see,
All discord harmony not understood,
All partial evil universal good.
—Pope.
THE
next morning I awoke with a light
heart, and after a refreshing bath went
on deck. The air was so delightful that my
whole being seemed to expand and embrace
all on board. It was as if something within
me were reaching out into the great universal
love, as if I could take up into my own being
everyone on this yacht, as if to let them enjoy
the same happy feelings I had.
On walking aft I saw beautiful Miss Viola
leaning on the rail, drinking in the glow of
the rising sun.
Standing there in her light dress, waved by
67
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the refreshing breeze, she suggested a coun
terpart of the picture I saw the evening before.
This time, however, everything seemed so
young, so bright. The blue sky was pure in
its softness of color. The white crested waves
moved gently by a light breeze and sparkled
in the dancing sunbeams, that seemed to
whisper of an approaching day of glory. The
soft quivering sun-rays, spreading light over
this endless mass of water, seemed to con
firm the "Dawn of a New Age," for a new hu
manity, whose image was symbolized by the
perfect beauty of the girl, standing in the
foreground of the picture. The beautiful, in
spirational face bespoke depths of spiritual
enlightenment, and in those soft devotional
eyes one could read the purest love.
I was magnetically attracted to her. How
could it be otherwise? How could such a di
vine beauty leave a man cold and indifferent?
But not long was I allowed to indulge in my
admiration and in the strange feelings of my
heart.
She seemed always to know when someone
was near her or thinking of her. As she turn
ed her face and her wonderful eyes met mine,
I was sure that she knew what was going on
in my mind. I do not recollect exactly what
68 ,
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
was adding to my confusion. I cannot re
member ever having been in such a strange
mood before.
After conventional greetings, I remarked :
"You are up early ; not many of the fair sex
are up before sunrise."
"Nor many men," she smiled back. Then
turning her face to the rising sun, continued :
"How many fail to take from nature her daily
appeal to the senses, the unrivaled beauty
which she displays for us with so free a
hand."
"I see you have been enjoying this beauti
ful sunrise," I said, stepping to her side.
"And you not less," shd replied.
"Yes, that is true, but I saw more than the
sunrise. I saw a beautiful picture, which I
shall never forget, so vivid was it before my
eyes !"
She sensed my compliment, but did not
reply, and silence fell between us. Words
seemed so trivial. It was impossible for her
to follow the custom of society and utter some
meaningless, empty phrases. Moreover, she
stood too high in my estimation for me to
speak to her of anything commonplace, or for
the purpose of flattery. To be in her presence
was happiness to me, and words had little
69
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
place in this new mood that was upon me.
Seeing Mrs. Van Hoover coming from her
cabin, we went forward to meet her. Greet
ings over, I asked about Miss Shetland.
"She is still sleeping," was the reply.
"Poor girl," I remarked, "the remembrance
of her experiences seems to have racked her
nerves, but, of course, we who understand
astrology and phrenology, and observing the
symptoms, would naturaly conclude that the
Moon was forming an adverse aspect with the
planet Saturn at the time of her birth, which
signifies sorrow in life, and makes the mind
melancholy at times."
"What else do you know, doctor?" asked
Mrs. Van Hoover, apparently interested.
"This aspect also causes delays and disap
pointments. People under such influence ex
perience difficulties and misfortunes of all
kinds from persons and things, signified by
Saturn, probably parents. If they, or even
their parents have money, they will lose it and
have difficulty in getting more. Such people
make more enemies than friends, especially
with the planet Mars also forming an unfav
orable aspect to the sun. They become sub
ject to slander and scandal, but the disfavor
they meet is merited, as this aspect may make
70
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the mind bitter and selfish, having little re
gard or respect for others. If this aspect is a
weak one, or the planets are in favorable
signs, the effect is not quite so evil in the lat
ter part of life. This seems to be the case, as
Miss Shetland has met you ; which may mean
that she will learn her lesson, and as a con
sequence may find herself in happier condi
tions."
"What do you think of her physical condi
tion, doctor?" inquired Mrs. Van Hoover, in
quisitively.
"The adverse aspect of Saturn and the
Moon is bad for the health, especially in a
woman's case. And, therefore, I judge that
attention and care are still needed before she
will overcome this influence. I am stating only
one aspect, which I feel is the most influential
in her life. But, of course, there is more to
be considered, and to do that, we have to
know the time, date, and place of birth.
The ladies had been listening very atten
tively. Mrs. Van Hoover remarked :
"Even without knowing her birth time, you
have given a correct delineation of her char
acter, and of her past and present condition.
How unfavorably that aspect you mentioned,
seems to influence her character and life, not
71
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
withstanding her many good qualities!"
"No doubt, she has many," I replied, "and
the good planetary influences must have
saved her from a more serious degeneration.
However, the opposing forces of good and
bad in her case are at the present time still
struggling for predominance. Hence, some
people are, as it were, in conflict with them
selves, sometimes saying something which
they do not mean, or acting differently from
the way one would conclude from their talk.
You have often heard people say : he or she is
a riddle to me. Astrology could explain this."
"It is true," Mrs. Van Hoover said. "I have
often noticed Miss Judith's peculiar mental
condition. To people who do not understand
such a character, she would undoubtedly be a
problem, or a riddle as you say."
Miss Viola broke in, saying :
"Mother, I think you might tell Doctor
Hartford her story. It might aid him in study
ing her horoscope."
After reflecting a moment, Mrs. Van
Hoover began :
"For many years she lived with her par
ents, sisters, and brothers; although not en
tirely happy, yet, seemingly content, as many
people are, having a good house to live in,
72
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
money enough to spend, taking life easily —
shopping, dining, going to theaters, spending
some time at beaches, or making trips ;
— in
short, her life was one of pleasure, and she
did not suspect the possibility of trouble until
it came suddenly.
"A series of bad speculations swept her
father's fortune away. The house of happi
ness was ruined, torn down as by a sudden,
unexpected earthquake. Her father did not
long survive the shock. The mother, not used
to the hardships in which she found herself,
became ill and died.
"Judith being the eldest, the responsibility
fell on her young shoulders. She was not al
together in harmony with her younger sisters
and brothers, which made their lives very dif
ficult. Being inexperienced and not educated
in the right spirit and manner, she could not
understand that love, devotion, toleration,
and patience would help her to make life
more successful and happier.
"She tried to find assistance from her own
and her father's friends. Some gave her
money, some gave her advice, but the real
help she needed was not given. Some even
turned enemies, complaining of her father be
ing also the cause of their misfortune. The
73
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
young man to whom she was engaged, broke
their engagement when reverses came. That
was a bitter blow."
Mrs. Van Hoover paused a moment; there
was a vibration of understanding and sym
pathy in her voice.
"Not having been taught any useful occu
pation," she continued, "any position she
could get was not of such a character that she
could earn enough to supply their wants. She
did have good sense enough, however, to
press her brothers to look for work.
"She created an atmosphere of unhappi-
ness around her by continual grumbling and
complaint. Consequently this affected also
her physical condition and appearance. Had
she been more attractive, had she shown a
more pleasant, happy face during those days,
instead of the gloomy, hateful looking coun
tenance, it would have been easier for her.
Many a time she was discharged as unfit for
work.
"And so the years of struggle and hardship
went on. Indignaties, heaped upon her and
her sisters by men who tried to take advan
tage of their misfortunes, embittered her. It
is not necessary to go into details, you well
know the terrible struggles of girls left in
74
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
such a position.
"Just a few days before we left New York,
I met her and learned that her mother was an
old school mate of mine, who in our girlhood
days had done me an unselfish service. I, in
turn, therefore, could not leave her daughters
in this miserable condition.
"We arranged that her younger sister
should complete her education in the charge
of a friend of mine, and Mr. and Mrs. Wright
offered to take care of the other members of
the family,
"As to herself, we proposed to her that she
should become our companion and try to be
gin a new life."
"We must be patient with her," Miss Viola
added. "To us, who have had the advantage
of harmonious surroundings and proper edu
cation, her case is indeed a sad one."
Mr. Van Hoover now came up, and after
kissing his mother and sister good morning,
turned to me :
"Good morning, doctor! It is not neces
sary to ask whether you had a good night's
sleep. You look splendid !"
"Indeed," I replied, "I am in perfect con
dition. In this pure atmosphere one can get
rid of the taint of the city."
75
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"And yet, how many prefer the city life."
Mrs. Van Hoover observed.
"They are blind to the beauties of nature,"
Van Hoover remarked; then turning to me:
"Are you used to an early breakfast?"
"I seldom take more than a cup of coffee,
or a glass of milk, or fruit, for breakfast."
"You are like Viola," he replied.
"I do not consider it necessary to eat much
in the morning," she observed. "After a good
rest during the night, the body needs no other
refreshment until about noon."
As we advanced toward the dining room,
Miss Judith came from her cabin.
"Good morning!" we all said in chorus.
"I hope you feel better, Miss Shetland," I
queried. "Is it not a beautiful morning?"
"Indeed, it is!" she replied. "I seem to be
the only sluggard here."
As we took our seats I noticed another table
laid for breakfast. Soon after, the officers
who were not on watch came in, and after
greetings, took their seats at that table.
"Mr. Van Hoover is a real democrat," I
thought, "In practice as well as theory."
As none of us ate much, with the exception
of Miss Judith, we had more time for conver
sation. When we had finished Van Hoover
76
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
said, "Well, doctor, I will now initiate you in
to the secrets of the ship." Turning to the
first officer, who was just leaving, he asked :
"'This your watch, Phil?—Tell Captain
Burton that I will meet him in his cabin. I
wish to show Doctor Hartford over the ship."
—Turning to Mrs. Van Hoover: —"Mother,
we will join you ladies in the library later; say
about ten o'clock."
77
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
IX
In every department of human activity the
note of brotherhood begins to be struck. Science
demonstrates our oneness; philosophy cor
roborates science; and religion tells us more
and more the same story. —Ernest Crosby.
TlfHEN we left the dining room, Van
** Hoover said:
"We will give you a general survey of the
ship to-day, doctor; later you may examine
her more in ,detail if you wish. You will find
any member of the crew willing to give the
information you desire."
"Thank you, Mr. Van Hoover, it will give
me a good opportunity to get acquainted with
the men."
"Yes," he observed, "and also to win their
confidence and goodwill, and make them feel
we are all brothers."
We were by this time on the bridge, where
we met the fourth officer and a sailor on
watch.
We talked a few minutes to these men;
then we walked up and down the bridge be
fore we went to the captain's room.
When we entered his office, he was talking
78
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to the first officer. On seeing us, he said :
"Good morning! I will be with you in a
moment!"
He continued to give instructions to his of
ficer, but soon he turned, saying :
"I am ready now, Mr. Van Hoover!"
We spent two hours going over the yacht ;
Captain Burton and Mr. Van Hoover explain
ing to me all I had to know in order to get a
general idea of the vessel.
Her splendid, up-to-date arrangement show
ed that she was constructed with a view to
combining pleasure, comfort, utility, and
economy. Not economy to save here and to
lose in another way, but the wise economy of
spending money plentifully where needed in
order to save in the end. To be sure, this
yacht was not built for pleasure in the first
place, but to enable the owner to carry out
his projects.
Even the quarters of the crew were arrang
ed so as to give them all the comforts of a
home; cosy places where they could rest,
read, write, or converse with one another.
Having seen the stinking quarters of ill-
paid men on my former voyages, no wonder
that I was astonished to find such extraordin
ary conditions here. I could imagine how
79
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
thankful and happy the crew on this ship
must have felt, that there lived a man—who
might be considered a capitalist, that is true
— who was a human with a loving heart, with
an understanding of the needs of his people,
and of humanity at large ; a millionaire, who
spent his money wisely and was not unwilling
to let others share in his wealth, where he saw
that people deserved it. The happy and con
tented faces I met during this survey were,
moreover, a proof that the right kind of crew
was chosen ; the right kind of jobs were giv
en, according to the individual's taste and
ability; the right kind of treatment and
authority maintained.
No wonder that all seemed to be taking
pleasure in their work, and with a high sense
of duty. All seemed to be inspired with the
ideas Van Hoover had in mind, anxious to
carry out his wonderful, noble plans.
I must not omit to mention the large salon
provided for the crew : it was a dining room
as well as a club —or recreation —room. On
its walls were mottoes and paintings, sym
bolic or emphasizing the ideas of co-opera
tion and brotherhood. One of the mottoes
read : 'Be in Tune with the Infinite which is in
you, in your Brothers, and all around you.'
80
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
The large painting represented two men
facing each other with clasped hands. Be
neath the picture were these words : 'Brother,
what can I do for you?' *)
The whole atmosphere
of this place could not fail
to have a beneficial influ
ence upon the minds and
actions of these people.
At ten o'clock we joined
the ladies in the library.
Mrs. Van Hoover and
Miss Viola were waiting
for us. Miss Shetland had
gone on deck.
The library was a beau
tiful room, modernly
equipped. The bookcases
contained a magnificent choice of books and
publications of art.
The ladies were anxious to hear what my
impressions were of the 'Andromeda.' After
taking a seat, I answered their questions with
much enthusiasm. While we were convers
ing, Mr. Van Hoover and Captain Burton
were in earnest discussion at the other end of
*) Re: Illustration 5: If one is indeed "In Tune
with the Infinite," he then can apply co-opera
tion, and bring brotherhood into practice.
"iu Tunc"
Sec footnote
81
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the room. Presently, however, the captain
left, and Van Hoover coming to my side, be
gan to explain his plans.
By and by the discussion became exceed
ingly interesting to me; consequently I in
quired about some details.
"Let Doctor Hartford read your manu
scripts relating to these questions, Reynold,"
Miss Viola suggested to her brother.
"I will do that;" was the reply, "however,
mine are not complete without yours. So I
will give yours too !"
Opening the drawer of a bookcase, he took
out a neatly bound volume with typewritten
pages and handed it to me.
During the rest of the forenoon we sat in
easy conversation, Van Hoover explaining to
me his ideas concerning my profession, sug
gesting I could be of great assistance to Cap
tain Burton and his officers in regard to my
knowledge of astrology, philosophy, and
sciences, in the classes and entertainments for
the crew.
We continued our discussion as to astrology
being the stepping stone to higher truths, *)
*) Illustration 6. Symbol: Prom the Pisces
Age of about 2000 years we are entering—
progressing into—the Aquarian Age, another
cycle of about 2000 years, as "On Stepping
Stones to Higher Things."
82
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the ladies eagerly joining in as some
special point presented itself, until
Van Hoover observed :
"You have heard, of course, of
criminology? You know that the
governments of many countries have
established bureaux for the purpose
of investigating and examining the
causes and effects of crimes, and that
experts are appointed to examine
criminals by phrenology, physiog
nomy, psycho-analysis, etc. You un
derstand, therefore, what a big
problem we have to deal with in con
nection with what we are planning
and pioneering for. We need know
ledge in attempting anything of im
portance."
"Knowledge gained from every
source, from everywhere," Mrs. Van
Hoover remarked, "not from a one-sided in
vestigation or study, in the manner of some
narrow-minded people."
The time passed quickly enough until
luncheon was announced.
Van Hoover and his mother preceded us to
the dining room. Miss Viola walked by my
side. Never had I experienced such pleasure
"Stepping Stones
to Higher Things'
See footnote
83
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
in the company of any young woman as I did
in the presence of this lovely girl. I could
not explain, neither did I attempt to analyze,
the queer mood that was upon me while in her
presence.
Keeping away from the mire is better than
washing it off. —Sanskrit Proverb.
There is war in the skies. —Owen Meredith.
THE
next morning I awoke very early. I
could not sleep longer, for even in my
dreams were the thoughts of the day just
passed.
The dawn was breaking as I came on
deck. It was not so cool as the previous
morning. Glancing over the ocean I noticed
the sun appearing at larboard. Surprised at
this, as the day before it was at the stern, I
went up to the bridge, where I met the officer
of the watch, and asked him the reason.
"It is the captain's order," he replied.1
"But why did we sail yesterday towards the
West-South-West?" I inquired.
I did not quite hear his reply, as my atten
tion was diverted to Miss Viola, who was just
84
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
coming on deck, though not alone ; her moth
er was with her.
Leaving the bridge, I joined them, and
after morning greetings, asked if they had no
ticed the changed course.
"Yes, we did," Miss Viola answered. "Per
haps Captain Burton has received a wireless.
We must be prepared for every eventuality."
Not wishing to appear too curious, I did not
ask for any explanation. We spoke of other
things. In the presence of Miss Viola I soon
forgot the change in the ship's route. Yes,
and even the yacht itself!"
In about an hour Van Hoover and Captain
Burton joined us for breakfast. No reference
was made to the altered course, and I kept
silent.
After breakfast, however, Van Hoover and
Burton, joining the ladies and me on the aft
deck, said that news had come by wireless to
the effect that, owing to the ruthless submar
ine warfare of the Brugolians not respecting
the laws and treaties of war, neutral ships as
well as those of enemies were liable to at
tack. The allies had therefore been compel
led to make arrangements for closer control
of the seas and harbors. America seemed
likely to be drawn into the trouble. T>>»
85
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
United States had made stricter rules for out
going and incoming ships, especially for such
as the yacht, being regarded as a pleasure
boat; and as in Honolulu and in Panama the
same rigid control had begun, they thought it
best not to go to Honolulu, but join the S. S.
'Esperanto' on its way to Labora Island. This
steamer fortunately had left Panama before
the new rules were effected.
I excused myself as it was the hour for me
to do my duty as ship's-surgeon. I made my
rounds of inspection, then returned to the
empty hospital. On my way I saw the cook
and the quartermaster in excited conversa
tion. On seeing me, they seemed anxious to
tell me something, but hesitated.
Noticing this, I asked :
"Did you wish to speak to me?"
"Why—yes, doctor; a strange thing has
occurred," said the cook. "As we are positive
that all on board are honest, and at least not
inclined to playful tricks in connecton with
our work, we have not been in the habit of
locking the pantries and storerooms, except
when we are in harbor. Yesterday morning
for the first time, and again this morning, we
noticed that food had been taken, and we are
at a loss to account for it. There are no dogs
86
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
or cats on board."
"Someone of the crew may have become
hungry and taken the food," I suggested.
"No, doctor, the crew is not in the habit of
doing such things; besides, the rule
is,
they
have to ask me or the steward."
"Are you sure,"
I
asked, "that you have
not made
a
mistake, somehow?"
"No, doctor, we have been searching every
imaginable place, and the quartermaster has
made inquiry.
It
is
almost impossible to mis
trust any of the crew."
"If you are sure,"
I
responded, "you had
better report to the captain, and he will prob
ably have
a
watch stationed."
"Thank you, doctor, that
is
what we will
do."
87
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XI
Who seeks for heaven alone to save his soul,
May keep the path, but will not reach the goal.
While he who walks in love may wander far
Yet God will bring him where the blessed are.
—Henry Van Dyke.
oUNDAY dawned bright and clear. I
^ was on deck enjoying the fine weather
though the temperature was beginning to
rise as we sailed southward toward the equa
tor.
Suddenly a strain of deep toned harmony
from the organ broke the morning stillness.
I stopped spellbound. A marvelous melody
of wondrous power and beauty floated out on
the morning air, now sinking into low rhyth
mic cadence, again vibrating in loud joyous
peals of rippling laughter, then trailing away
as if telling of the peace abiding in a soul fill
ed with love and harmony. No familiar strain
smote my ear, and now I sensed the player
was improvising the thoughts that came from
that occult plane, known only to the mystic;
and I knew it was she.
Every Sunday afternoon the crew's salov
(their dining-living-room), was arranged for
a meeting for discussions or lectures on some
topic of general interest for the improvement
88
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
of the mental condition of the men. While
any one was privileged to deliver a lecture, it
generally fell to Mr. Van Hoover.
"Once, Samson, the quartermaster, gave a
brief, yet splendid lecture," the captain in
formed me, "which had a good effect on the
crew. They were already fond of him, but
now they show admiration and respect for
this simple man, who had no college educa
tion, but who nevertheless understands many
things better than the average college gradu
ate."
"As you can understand, doctor," remark
ed Mrs. Van Hoover, who joined us with Miss
Shetland, "Samson is of unusual advantage
to our work and of great benefit to the men."
In addition to this remark the captain said
something, to which I could not give my full
attention, as I was wondering why Miss Viola
had not joined us. Something prevented my
inquiring.
When we were in the large room and com
fortably seated, a marvelous melody resound
ed, as if coming from a higher sphere, charm
ing the air around us.
Now, for the second time during that day
was I arrested as by enchantment.
89
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
What celestial harmony is this? What a
choice collection of notes and of melodies
unheard before?
Then — that strain again that I heard in
the morning, filling the air with a sweet,
charming symphony.
Presently it dawned upon me whence came
this sublime artistic achievement. Then I
realized that, by means of connecting tubes
between the salons, the music of the organ
was transmitted from the ceiling.
Not long, however, was I allowed to medi
tate on this remarkable incident. When the
last vibrations of the melody had echoed
away in the vast distance of the universe, Van
Hoover, taking my arm, introduced me to his
people, explaining the reasons for my associa
tion, and hoping that each of us would give
his co-operation to bring about ultimate suc
cess.
Thereupon he invited the audience to sing
and asked the second officer to direct the
chorus. Nearly every one joined the choir,
singing in four different parts, accompanied
by the music from the piano.
In the meantime Miss Viola had come in
and joined the choir.
90
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
The singing over, Van Hoover spoke again.
The synopsis of his speech ran :
"My friends, wireless messages received
in the last few days have been very disquiet
ing.
"It seems quite possible that the United
States will be drawn into the struggle now
raging in Europe. Therefore, we must be pre
pared for coming events.
"We are living in a changing world. The
awful war in Europe will cause many disturb
ances after it is over, more than people can
realize now. The number of soldiers in Eu
rope will increase during the so-called peace
period after the war than it was at the begin
ning of the war. And as prophecies have it,
a
greater war, the Armageddon, will follow, be
fore real peace and goodwill among men
is
established.
"As for us, let us keep in mind that we are
not of this world, with its selfish motives and
purposes, but that we are pioneering and try
ing to form
a
separate commonwealth in
a
new country. In fact, we have already form
ed
a
new community on the 'Andromeda' and
on the 'Esperanto.' Nevertheless, let us never
forget to think rightly, because thoughts are
91
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the first causes of our actions, and determine
the quality of our life in a community. What
I am thinking, what I am doing, is more im
portant than my thoughts of what the other
man is thinking or doing.
"I am sure we have here the right men in
the right place, as I have been very careful in
my choice; and I am sure that the harmony
and fellowship existing between us will carry
us safely through any danger that may befall.
"Every man must do his work, if we are to
make a success along the as yet untried field
which we have chosen. Remember, pioneer
ing is not easy !
"Communism following on the heels of
revolution has ever been sooner or later fol
lowed by a relapse into some form of govern
ment that still maintained a heavy hand on
the common people, always supporting an
exploiting class which gradually degenerated
into an aristocracy of wealth, whose rapacity
must of necessity eventuate in bloody revolu
tion.
"We believe we have found the remedy for
failure in co-operation,* and we know that
the remedy we wish to bring forward is based
, No. 7 OU I'RKt; S4
See lllustratfon.ana footnote on Page 93
92 *
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
on Nature's laws.
"These laws may pertain to physical, as
well as to metaphysical or occult laws. The
more we understand these laws and bring
them into practice, or live and act in accord
with them, the better for our community.
"The law of attraction and of harmony is
proven to be working not only on the physical,
but also on the metaphysical planes.
"We apply astrological selection to bring
similar minded people together, thus working
with the law of attraction and harmony.
"When you, my fellowmen, have mastered
the ground work of this science under the
able tutelage of Doctor Hartford, you will be
efficient teachers, capable of going out as
Aquarian Pioneers into the world to bring
about a new age and a new race ; the fellow
ship of man, the practice of universal brother
hood, which is a fact of Nature. And thus —
helping to establish the AQUARIAN
BROTHERHOOD.*)
*) Illustration 7: —Symbolic: the links of the
unbroken chain, the interlaced triangles, the
significance of the number 9 and the sign of
Aquarius—all relating to Universal, Aquarian,
Brotherhood, Unity, Co-operation —the many in
to one — By understanding the Law of Life all
these can be brought into effect.
93
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Now my
friends, we will
have our reading in
Esperanto."
Then turning to
Samson, he motion
ed him to take the
platform.
Samson's pro
nunciation was
perfect; simple
words were chosen
so as to be easily
understood. To my
great delight I
could follow every
word, as Esperanto had been a favorite di
version of mine.
A discussion followed ; questions were an
swered by Van Hoover and others ; and after
wards the meeting ended with a musical se
lection by Miss Viola.
At dinner I complimented Miss Viola on her
marvelous achevement. She smiled, but did
not respond.
As I could not express my admiration and
appreciation of her art in more befitting
words, I simply said :
94
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"The audience was obviously listening with
great delight."
She only smiled again at me.
"Music has a great influence upon these
men," observed Mrs. Van Hoover. "It cannot
fail to stimulate them to higher aspirations."
"Indeed," Burton remarked, "and they do
not need to learn Esperanto or English in or
der to appreciate music, though not every one
may understand the 'finesses.'
"
"Music is the Universal language of man
kind," Van Hoover quoted from Longfellow.
95
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
xn*
Few men temper rightly with the stars.
—Shakespeare.
A fter dinner we continued our conversation
in the salon, Miss Shetland and one of the of
ficers joining us. When later the latter had
left, Captain Burton said :
"The cook reported again this morning that
last night food was missing for the third time.
We have decided to place a guard on watch
tonight.
"It is strange !" Mrs. Van Hoover mused.
"I suppose we can find the solution," Van
Hoover paid, smilingly, as if he had guessed
already.
At this moment Miss Judith rose from her
chair, seemingly not quite at ease, her eyes
turned away from us in the direction of the
door. Thereupon, as if there were something
disturbing her mind, she looked back at us,
*) This chapter went into print in March 1926
as a booklet, titled: "COMING EVENTS Cast
Their Shadows Before"; the date of publica
tion being April 19, 1926. Application for copy
right was made on April 13, 1926, and entered
under No. 892720 in the United States Copy
right Office, May 1, 1926. For obvious reasons
the reader should take notice of these facts.
96
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
then at Van Hoover, and finally said,
abruptly:
"Good night!" and left the room with
downcast eyes.
At this sudden proceeding we looked at
one another, wondering, but no one made a
remark.
Evidently to banish the tension of the
moment, Mrs. Van Hoover asked :
"What do you think of the near future,
doctor?"
"You mean the coming events?"
"Yes, what will be the outcome of this war
and the conditions thereafter, according to
your observations?"
"I agree with Mr. Van Hoover that trouble
some years will come, as he hinted in his lec
ture this afternoon."
"You mean, you have come to the same con
clusion?"
"Yes, I have, though we may differ in mat
ters of no moment."
"I asked this question," Mrs. Van Hoover
said, thoughtfully, "because astrologers and
other prophets, apparently, do not agree, even
in the principal matters."
"That is true," Van Hoover observed, "but
there are some principal points on which
97
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
many do agree."
"If astrologers were also gifted with the
faculty of seership," Miss Viola remarked,
with a sideglance at me, "they would be more
exact in their prophecies."
"Undoubtedly," Burton observed, "but
often the seers' predictions agree wiwth those
of astrologers, as I have concluded from read
ing on these subjects.
"That reminds me," Van Hoover said, "that
I have kept many special issues of magazines
and clippings of newspapers in regard to the
predictions of the present war. I will get
them."
Soon he was back from the library with
magazines in his hands.
"You know these publications, of course,"
he said, showing me a few. "It will be inter
esting to read again what was predicted years
ago, and to see how at the present time some
predictions have already been fulfilled and
others are in course of fulfillment."
Looking for a special issue and showing it
to us, he continued :
"I will read only those sentences which I
have underlined. In this issue of 'Modern
Astrology' for July, 1910, we read of King
George of England :
'—he will do all in his
98
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
power to avert war; but he will hardly escape
a grave and serious possibility of war during
hisreign." And of the Austrian Emperor: 'The
fate of the European nations hangs by the
thread of the Austrian Emperor's nativity.'
'—-it is no idle prohpecy to say that if a
.European war breaks out during the lifetime
of these two monarchs, the Emperor of Aus
tria will be the direct cause of drawing Eng
land nto the struggle.' —"
Taking up another magazine, he continued :
"And here is an issue of 'Modern Astrology'
for October, 1914, in which we read J*the
Kaiser's fate ;
'—he is doomed eventually to
fall. His friends will desert him and cause
him to engage in some colossal acts of folly.
He will ruin his country financially. He will
close the royal dynasty for Germany, and will
be the direct cause of a revolution that will
bring a republican government to the seat
of power in Germany.
"Very interesting!" Mrs. Van Hoover re
marked.
"It
is,
indeed!" Captain Burton rejoined.
Then turning to Van Hoover, he inquired
:
"Why do you think there will be another
and greater war than this, as you hinted in
your lecture?"
99
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"My statement is partly based on the occult
significance of the Great Pyramid, that stu-
M
pendous monu
ment of ancient
times. If you
study the plans
and the hierogly
phics*) concern
ing this pyramid,
you will know,
captain, that it
must be the re-
Sphinx and Pyramid sult of deep
thought and design, intended to convey an
idea and to reveal a purpose. In fact, the
pyramid is the 'Witness in Stone'."
"Nay," Mrs. Van Hoover quoted, "but if
these deny me, even the stoneswill cry out!"**
"The interior passages of this pyramid,"
Van Hoover continued, "are all significant of
great historical occurrences. Each turn, or
change in these passages, and in the interior
construction, was so planned that the inch
measurements correspond exactly to the years
in which certain changes will take place.
Those who have studied for many years the
*) This statement may not be true to fact, but
Van Hoover Is supposed to know that the pyra
mid contains other passages, chambers, and
hieroglyphics than those already discovered.
100
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
meaning of these measurements and hierogly
phics have proven beyond doubt that these
explanations are correct. The period of the
early Christian Era, that of the Reformation,
and that of the French Revolution, as well
as that of the present war, all correspond to
certain inch-year measurements in the Great
Pyramid. If the occurrences of the past are
the fulfillment of the predictions recorded by
means of these inch-year measurements, we
may expect with great confidence that the re
maining measurements denote future events
in certain years. According to these measure
ments, the war will end in 1918.
Turning the leaves of a magazine, Van
Hoover came to a page on which a diagram
and plans of the pyramid were printed.
Showing it to us, he continued :
"This war is indicated by the 'low passage'
— here—The open space which follows in
dicates the armistice; then comes the 'Hang
ing Granite Leaf, another 'Low Passage'
again followed by another open passage —
this one — corresponding in years up to July,
1926. Then comes — this — the final 'Low
Passage', indicating the 'Armageddon', lead
ing, ~ as you see — to the 'King's Chamber'
'«««
101
: :-: .••••:: TJHE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
:..•.•..•• : i ,.!/••...••
BEFORE*)
COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS
This is one of the horoscopes, cast by the
author, from which he predicts the coming events
explained in the following pages.
Maps of the heavens for various countries for
the date and time stated here, can be derived
from this map by applying the rules for casting
mundane horoscopes.
*) The above map and note is a
reproduction of page 6 in "Coming
Events Cast Their Shadows Be
fore." See also footnote on pagelQ<>
102
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
— here — denoting the 'Millenium', which
will begin in 1932."
Turning to me, Van Hoover asked :
"Have you ever compared these pyramid
indications with those of the planets?"
"I have, but not quite in detail, for it would
mean an enormous amount of work to calcu
late the positions of all the planets so many
years in advance. However, I know that in
1926*) the planets Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune
and Mars will be^ed signs and in an adverse
constellation, which has an unfortunate in
fluence upon the earth and upon humanity,
causing great disturbances everywhere. Did
Wright show you his manuscript regarding
the events of 1926-1932?"
"Yes, he gave me a copy,"*) Van Hoover
replied, and his delineations confirm the indi
cations of the Great Pyramid. He thinks that
the Spring quarter of 1926 is indicative of
great cataclysms, explosions, earthquakes,
floods, tornadoes, etc., and anticipates greater
unrest, excitement, and disturbance among
nations than has ever before been experi
enced."
'I believe he is right!" I remarked.
"7
*) Diverse so-called Mundane horoscopes were
calculated by the author, from which the follow
ing dialogue in this chapter is derived.
103
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"He also found indications, Van Hoover
continued, "that the Summer quarter of 1926
will bring out latent forces, producing disaster
and change, and the beginning of the great
trouble."
"But, he does not seem sure of another
war," I remarked, "at least not to begin so
soon.*) He predicts great unrest among the
nations, with disputes, quarrels, lawlessness,
dissatisfaction with law, strikes and rioting —
a spirit of discontent and rebellion. A tur
bulent spirit directed against those in high
places, an increase of secret and mysterious
crimes, enmity, treachery, fraud, and a
struggle between the masses, either socially
or politically."
"Yes," Van Hoover replied, "but remember
also that he hinted at a martial aggressive
spirit, both at home and in foreign affairs;
rumours of war, or actual war.
"Of course," I interrupted, "Mars, during
that period, is often in unfortunate aspect
with other planets, but it may only indicate
an increase of murders, fires, assaults, out
rages, ill health and deaths from martian
diseases. Or discontent and trouble affecting
army, navy, or police."
"Anyhow," Van Hoover continued seri-
104
*) Some astrologers and seers think that 1928 will bring an
other war, the "Armageddon".
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ously, "it will be a very unfortunate time for
governments and ruling powers; and surely
the upper classes will feel the effects of hostil
ity and opposition. As Wright says, there will
be a tendency to crime or secret dealings di
rected towards them."
"It seems to me," Burton said, joining in
the discussion, "from what you or Wright
said, that the world is likely to get more revo
lutions. If the pyramid points to disaster or
cataclysms after 1926, then it may be that
more thrones will fall, or something of that
nature."
"Not only thrones," Van Hoover replied,
"republics will also undergo great changes.
Accordng to Wright, whoever happens to be
president of the United States, will go through
a critical time and suffer some misfortune. He
also predicts that someone in authority, or a
very eminent person will die or be assassin
ated in 1926."
"It surely is a fateful period," Mrs. Van
Hoover remarked, seriously, "and it can only
be the time of harvesting what has been sown.
The law of cause and effect, reaping — and
undoubtedly the churches will be affected by
it,
as they have also sown."
"Undoubtedly," Van Hoover replied, "as
105
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Wright predicts, religious disturbances will
increase, churches will be unfortunate, and
there will be increased misunderstandings in
religious and political affairs. Occult ideas,
new to the churches, will disturb orthodox
ies."
"There are astrologers," I remarked, after
hesitating a moment, who are very pessimistic
regarding the future, especially concerning
the period after 1926, believing that there will
be a time, such as has not been recorded by
history during the last ages."
"You may regard the coming period after
the war as the fat and lean years," Van
Hoover observed, "the seven fat years from
1919 to 1926, then the seven lean years from
1926 to 1933, and, therefore, those who are
wise will prepare themselves and store away
whatever they can for the lean years. And
believe me, astrologers and other prophets
may be pessimistic, but some, surely, know
what they are talking about. As Captain Bur
ton can know in advance whether a storm is
approaching by consulting his barometer, and
by other ways or means, so we can know in ad
vance the coming events when we study and
consult the occult sciences!"
"Some use ostrich sense and don't want to
106
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
know or to see !" Mrs. Van Hoover remarked.
"Indeed," Van Hoover continued, "until
the flood comes and drowns humanity, figur
atively speaking — in fact, until the cata
clysms suddenly descend upon mankind, as
this war came unexpectedly!"
"And what misery and despair will the next
cataclysms cause! And for such a long pe
riod !" said Viola in a low voice.
"My, my!" ejaculated Burton, "so many
years of mys/ery and horrors!"
"The 'Great Desolation,'" Mrs. Van
Hoover quoted, "a 'time of trouble, such as
never was since there was a nation' *) Then
looking at the clock, she marked : "It is get
ting late!"
We bade each other 'Good night!'; thus
bringing an interesting day to its termination.
") In St Matthew XXIV: 21: "For there shall
be great tribulation, such as was not since the
beginning of the world to this time, no, nor
ever shall be."
.•
107
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XIII
A little more patience, a little more charity for
all, a little more devotion, a little more love;
with less bowing down to the past, and a silent
ignoring of pretended authority; a brave look
ing forward to the future with more faith in our
fellows, and the race will be ripe for a great
burst of light and life.—Elbert Hubbard.
"^ EXT morning I was up early for my usual
.^ morning walk. As I passed the closed
hold of the front part of the yacht, I was sur
prised to see two strangers sitting there. They
were dressed in worn-out dirty over-alls, and
looked like the usual type of working men.
They made an unfavorable contrast to the
neat and cleanly clothed, happy looking sai
lors of the 'Andromeda.'
When they saw me, they became uneasy,
and with an embarrassed look in their down
cast eyes, pretended not to see me, notwith
standing betraying themselves by nervously
moving their feet.
I returned to the aft deck, where I found
Miss Viola and her mother.
I merely mentioned what I had seen with
out further comment.
Mrs. Van Hoover remarked :
"We shall probably learn all about it from
the captain and Reynold at breakfast."
108
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
A few minutes before breakfast Miss Shet
land appeared, obviously in better spirits.
"You are looking fine this morning," I said,
when we went to breakfast. "You had a good
sleep?"
"I did not sleep well before midnight, but
afterwards I must have been in deep sleep,
as I am late this morning." '
"Let nothing disturb your mind when you
retire," I advised her, remembering her last
nights behavior. "Read something to divert
your mind when you are worried."
During breakfast the captain told us of the
two strangers on board. Van Hoover, turning
to me, said :
"We have a ship's-council, composed of the
captain, two officers and myself, and we wish
you to be one of us. The purpose is to discuss
and to dispose of any question that may arise.
So, if you will meet us in cabin No. 12, after
your inspection is over, we will hold counsel
as to what course to take with these men."
Cabin No. 12 was a room which could be
used for different purposes. This time it was
transformed into a kind of council room.
Accordingly we met here, and after we were
seated, Captain Burton, turning to the quar
termaster, said :
109
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Call in the cook, and the two sailors who
effected the capture of these men."
In about five minutes they entered the room.
"Tell us," said Captain Burton, addressing
the cook, "how you caught these men."
"Tobolsky was put on guard from ten
o'clock until midnight, but nothing occurred
during the watch. Mathews was to take
second watch and I joined him."
Captain Burton's eyea twinkled, as he said :
"This is the first time I ever knew of a cook
taking watch. How did you get your commis
sion, Sir Chef?"
"Well, captain," replied the cook in some
confusion, "I went to bed earlier than usual,
and after midnight I could not sleep, thinking
of the food disappearing, so I joined Mathews.
We hid ourselves in different places. There
was no light, except some faintly coming from
outside. About half past one a man came
stealthily in and went to the pantry, opposite
to the place where I was hid. Taking bread
and other food, he went out, first precautious-
ly looking to see if everything was safe. As
he passed Mathews' hiding place, Mathews
followed him. The man went to one of the
iron posts that connects with the deck above,
and climbed it. Mathews followed him and I
110
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ran to the stairs. As I reached the upper deck,
no one was in sight but Mathews, who pointed
to one of the life boats. I told him by gestures
to keep guard while I would go to the officer
on watch."
"Mr. Ellis," the captain said.
"Yes," the cook continued. "I made my
report to him, and he telephoned to the quar
termaster. Samson came at once. Mr. Ellis
told him to follow me and to act according to
instructions. Samson went to the boat, threw
off the covering and ordered the man to come
out. To our astonishment two men appeared.
The quartermaster gave orders for them to be
taken care of until further orders."
The cook finished. The other witnesses
had not much more to add. Then turnnig to
the quartermaster, the captain said :
"Bring the men in."
As they were brought in and told to be
seated, I examined their outward make-up.
They presented a sorry appearance with
their dirty clothes and unshaven faces.
The taller of the two men was not a bad
looking fellow. He was about thirty five
years of age and clearly belonged to the bet
ter class of working men. The form of his
head was of the average type, nothing stand
111
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ing out in particular, except his somewhat
crooked mouth, the appearance of which was
made less repulsive by his moustache. And
with his clear blue eyes, his total make-up
gave the impression that he was not deprived
of intelligence.
The other man was short, had a thick bull
neck, heavy lower jowls; small, backward
sloping upperhead, broad flat nose; large
mouth with coarse lips; small shifty, faded
grey eyes with oddly formed eyelids, indicat
ing a man of gross, worthless animal-like
nature, inclined to laziness, combativeness,
and destructiveness, with moderate conscien
tiousness : unmistakably belonging to the low
er type of radical.
They looked abashed as they saw the calm
and friendly looking faces of the officers, and
their eyes kept glancing uneasily at Van
Hoover's intelligent, handsome face, with the
clear, open, penetrating eyes, as if they felt
that he could read their very thoughts.
Addressing the men, Captain Burton said:
"We want you to understand beforehand
that you are among friends. It is not our in
tention to punish you. On the contrary, it is
our desire to help you, if possible. For our
112
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
goodwill we ask in return a truthful statement
from you: why are you here? What are your
intentions?"
After a short silence, neither replying, the
captain continued :
"Perhaps it is unusual for you to meet peo
ple with honest intentions, who try to live a
life of truth. We understand very well, that
as you have lived in a world of deceit and sel
fishness, it is difficult to believe that we have
only the best intentions."
Van Hoover, touching the captain's arm in
terrupted :
"Understand well what the captain has
said, my friends. You are among friends, who
believe in the brotherhood of man and are,
therefore, inclined to treat you in a brotherly
way. Of course, you understand, the captain
has authority to keep you as prisoners until he
can turn you over to the American authorities,
for you are American subjects and have vio
lated the laws of your country in leaving it
without a passport, to. say nothing of violating
our rights, by shipping as stowaways."
They seemed more at ease now, yet the bull-
faced man still inclined to a suspicious atti
tude. From his features and bearing one
could deduce the mari°*fixed ideas, in whose
opinion such ideas were the only conceptions
U3
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
worth while considering, condemning all
others.
I happened to notice that the chief engineer
was particularly scrutinising him.
"Now, friends," said the captain kindly,
"you have heard what Mr. Van Hoover has
said. Will you answer our questions?" There
upon, addressing the taller of the two men,
"Your name?"
After a moment of silence the reply came :
"Robert Ritter, sir."
"Where! have you lived before you came on
board?"
"In San Francisco, sir."
"Why did you leave San Francisco?"
"I was in trouble, sir; in very great trouble
and wanted to try my fortune in Honolulu or
Manila."
"Couldn't you take passage on a passenger
steamer bound to those cities?"
"I had no money, sir."
"Could you not earn money by working or
by trying to get a job on board a ship?"
"No, captain, I could not find employment."
"Is this man your friend?"
"Yes, sir."
"How did you get aboard this ship?"
"A friend of mine, who Was working as
114
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
stevedore here, helped us."
"But how did your friend help you, and how
lid you pass the guard?"
"We took our place in the line of steve
dores, carrying our loads of goods. We went
to the hold with the rest and hid among the
cases."
"Did nobody see you slipping out?"
"No ; we were the last of the line, so we
could stay and hide easily."
"How long did you hide among the cases?"
"About ten or fifteen minutes."
"How did you get on the upper deck and
in the life boat?"
"Watching our chance when the guard was
not in front of the hatch, we slipped up the
stairs and climbed the pole to the upper deck
and hid in the boat."
"It seems that the gods have favored your
escape and made our guards blind."
Addressing the quartermaster, the captain
asked :
"Who was on guard at that time, Samson?"
"It was Peterson's watch, captain."
"Have him called in, will you?"
■
While waiting, the captain turned to the
other man, asking in an encouraging tone :
"And your .name, friend? What have you
U6
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to tell?"
He sullenly replied :
"This here my pal has fallen for your soft
stuff, so no use keeping my name under cover
any longer. I am Bullen Bullock."
We looked at one another and back at the
man, then my eyes met those of Maxwell, the
chief engineer, and I was sure Maxwell knew
more of this man, Bullock, than he showed.
"Then, what your friend has told is the
truth?"
"Yes," said Bullock shortly.
At this juncture, Peterson came in.
"Peterson," the captain said, "you were on
watch at the time these men say they came on
board. Do you recognize either of them as
having been among the stevedores?"
"No, captain, I do not recognize them," was
Peterson's reply.
"Did you know any of the stevedores?" in
quired the captain.
"No, sir, I did not."
"But you could recognize them if you were
to see them again?"
"I guess I could."
"Here are two men who said they were
among the stevedores. Didn't you notice that
. there were extra men in the gang?"
U6
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"No, captain."
"But, did you not observe, or can you not
remember something unusual?"
Reflecting a moment, Peterson replied:
"I do remember now, one trip, two of the
men were bending over as though their loads
were very heavy and I could not see their
faces."
"But did you not recognize them on their
return trip?"
Peterson looked confused and as if trying
to recollect. At last he said, sadly:
"I am sorry, captain, at the time of their
return trip I was called to look at a broken
box ; the last man was just disappearing down
the gangplank as I returned to my post."
"Who; called you?"
"One of the stevedores."
Turning to the stowaways, Burton ob
served, with a twinkle in his eyes :
"Probably your friend, helping you by di
verting the guard's attention?"
Ai trace of a smile was on Bitter's face, but
he did not reply.
"You can go, Peterson," the captain said.
Then, addressing Phil Henderson : "Who was
the* receiving officer at that time?"
"Watson, captain, but the goods which
117
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
those stevedores must have carried at that
time had to be carried in and put near the
hold for future sorting. These goods were
sent at a late moment when all the cranes
were busy and the loading had to be hurried
up. Watson was nearest that hold, but could
not overlook the whole deck. Ellis and Ed
wards were stationed at the other holds and
Samson below.
We consulted together for a short time,
when Van Hoover said to the two men :
"I have proposed to Captain Burton that
you be granted the same privilege as the rest
of the crew. You will be given a place to
sleep. All we ask of you
is,
to conform to the
rules of the ship. We place you on your honor
to show the same spirit towards us as we do
towards you.
The captain said to the quartermaster:
"Provide these men with suitable clothes;
see that they have
a:
bath and
a
shave, and at
two o'clock they are to be taken to the doctor's
office for examination. Tomorrow they have
to be here again at the same hour, ten
o'clock."
The meeting adjourned.
118
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XIV.
No one could tell me where my soul might be;
I sought for God, but God eluded me;
I sought my brother out, and found all three.
—Ernest Crosby.
AFTER
luncheon I went to my office to
await the coming of the two men. Pres
ently they came in, accompanied by the quar
termaster. Their appearance had been much
improved by a hair cut, a shave, and a change
of clothing.
"You look much better," I said pleasantly.
"No doubt, you feel better."
Ritter bowed and smiled, but the other re
mained sullen.
"As physician of this yacht, it is my duty to
keep every one in good health. Furthermore,
it is for your own well being and protection
that I have to examine you." Motioning Rit
ter, I said : "We will begin with our duties."
After a thorough examination of Ritter I
found him in fairly good condition. The ex
amination of Bullock was not promising. The
whole make-up of the man was gross and
showed a gluttonous tendency.
The mental conditions tallied with the phys
ical findings. Ritter seemed bright and intel
ligent, and capable of improvement, while
Bullock's mental attitude was in keeping with
119
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
his physical make-up, capable of little de
velopment.
I was convinced that in time I could win
the confidence of Ritter, but in Bullock the
prospect did not seem so hopeful.
"Well, Ritter," I said cheerfully, "I am
glad anyhow, to see you so much refreshed.
It will not be long before you will be a very
healthy and good looking man."
Ritter seemed much pleased. He chanced
to look at the mirror, which was above the
washstand. Of course he could not deny
some change in his appearance. A clean,
white shirt and an open blue coat gave his
clean shaven face, with the blond moustache,
a renewed appearance.
"Better food and fresh air will soon give
you fuller cheeks ; then your paleness will be
gone for ever."
It seemed much easier to win this man's
confidence; and by his example of willing
ness, to gain Bullock's.
"Well, friends," I said, when the examina
tion was ended, "take care of yourselves, con
form to the rules of the ship, and you will find
plenty to learn."
They withdrew, and I went to my private
office, where I madQ some notes. Thereupon,
120
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
pondering over what we had heard this morn
ing, I became deeply concerned. It occurred
to me that these men must have had other
reasons for leaving America than they were
willing to tell. My intuition, moreover,
seemed to suggest the casting of a horary fig
ure for that very moment.
Consequently, I began to calculate the posi
tions of the; planets in the signs of the zodiac,
and as soon as the map of the heaven was
drawn, I was surprised to read the explanation.
Yet, I tried to keep a calm mind. To confirm
the indications concluded from that chart, I
wanted to talk to Maxwell, as I believed, he
knew more of Bullock. I had no chance, how
ever, during that day.
*fe**#
121
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XV
If you Inwardly and truly aspire to know truth
at whatever cost. It Is certain the truth will
cost you something. This is inevitable.
—Book of Items.
The Principle of Life Is universal, thine own
life, and the lives of all creatures are fragments
of the One Life, undying, eternal; "which Is not
seen nor felt, but Is perceived by him who de
sires perception." —From "The Three Truths."
TOURING dinner and afterwards in the
salon — where two officers and the sec
ond engineer joined us -- we had much of
interest to discuss.
In the course of conversation, the officers
mentioned something that partially confirmed
what I read in the horary figure.
"No wonder," I remarked, "that Maxwell's
eyes were so intently fixed on Bullock during
our examination."
"Surely enough," the captain replied, em
phatically, "Maxwell recognized this man
Bullock, as one of whom he had read as be
ing connected with sabotage, and, of course,
he knew he might attempt the same thing on
board: for instance, destroy part of the en
gines. As a matter of fact, Maxwell is anxious
to protect his department."
"Oh !" Mrs. Van Hoover uttered, anxiously.
"Do you think this man Bullock is such a dan
gerous fellow?"
123
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"He would be dangerous," the captain re
plied, quietly, "if he had to do with other
kind of people than those here on the 'An
dromeda'."
"Why do you think so?" inquired Miss
Shetland, with an anxious look.
"Because," the captain replied, "the prin
ciple by which we are ruled on the 'Andro
meda' is brotherhood, love towards our broth
er men, whereas the majority of the world is
ruled by selfishness. Even among the so-
called Christians ,many do not live up to the
teachings of the Man they profess to follow.
By giving these men their freedom and there
by recognizing the good in them, they will be
ashamed to do us harm. If instead of using
force against wrongdoers, we institute love
and mercifulness, we put into practice the ex
ample of the great Master Jesus."
"Whose teachings are based on knowl
edge," Miss Viola chimed in, "but rejected by
the Western people, because these teachings
contradict their selfish motives."
"The Western people, "Van Hoover re
marked, "have through 'churchianity' created
a feeling of separateness. They cannot accept
the idea that their neighbors, much less the
wrongdoers, or criminals, are their brothers,
12S
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
all belonging to that great family of man
kind."
"But, I believe," Miss Judith hinted, "that
the majority of the wealthy class would take
offense if you should tell them that a beggar
is a brother, as I have experienced in the cir
cles where I have moved."
"Nevertheless," Van Hoover continued, "as
long as society is ruled by the principle of
separateness, so long will there be a world
subject to selfishness, hatred, crime and war."
"And, therefore," Mrs. Van Hoover ex
plained, "in the ordinary society, ruled by the
principle of separateness, there is always dan
ger of stealing, brutality, murder, and all other
offenses against society."
"Is this clear to you, Miss Shetland?" Van
Hoover asked.
"Yes, I begin to understand, "Miss Shetland
replied, thoughtfully.
Watson, the second officer, who was follow
ing attentively, remarked :
"How strange it is that the great majority
seem not to see the one-ness or the unity of
mankind; to understand that what injures
one, injures the whole."
"And what helps one, helps all," Burton
interrupted.
124
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Yes," Van Hoover said
"it seems difficult for the
great majority to recog
nize the interdependence
of all men."
"That's it! They do not
know," Watson said, med
itatively." Or is it that they
do not want to know?"
"Many want to know,"
Captain Burton replied,
"but are lazy in trying to
gain knowledge ; and
many who do know, sup
press their conscience for
selfish purposes, and this
explains why they do not want to know."
"And," Van Hoover observed, "having lack
of knowledge, such people continue to 3in, in
the hope of gaining something by it. The
Western people have little understanding of
the truth that wrongdoers rarely comprehend
what they are doing. Their violation of the
law is in the hope of self betterment. They
cannot realize that crime, so-called, only
brings unhappiness in the long run."
"If every one were anxious enough after
knowledge," Miss Viola observed, "and could
125
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
understand the truth, we should have a per
fect, happy humanity, as 'the truth shall make
man free'."
"What do you mean," asked Miss Shetland,
eagerly,
" 'The truth shall make man free?'
"
"Well," Miss Viola replied, apparently pon
dering upon an explanation, "what is truth?
Shall I try to delineate it by simple contrast,
that it is the opposite of falsehood? Two times
two make five, is a falsehood, we know, yet,
are there not many people who hold such
falsehoods for truths? Is it not clear to you,
Judith, that all the sins in the world, that all
the wrong thoughts of men, are to be consid
ered as falsehoods? As long as wrong think
ing and wrong acting continue in the world,
it
is,
far from knowing the truth, far from be
ing free. There
is
no country, no state, no
town free from falsehood; consequently, no
country
is
free from selfishness, deceit, crime,
and other sins. Hence
it
is
not perfect and
cannot be happy. Can you follow me?"
"Yes, goon!"
Notwithstanding the simplicity of Miss Vi
ola's explanations, the manner of presentation
and her sweet, magnetic voice, made the sim
ple truths more clear to us.
"So with individuals," the beautiful girl
136
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
continued. "As long as a man holds on to
falsehood, he does not know the truth, and the
truth cannot make him free. If every member
of a community should think and speak the
truth, and act in accordance with
it,
obviously
enough, there would be no sin. Such
a
com
munity would be
a
perfect and happy one.
Hence we can say that every member of this
community
is
made free by the truth."
"I see that,
" Miss Judith remarked, "but
What to say of the community here on board,
increased by two strangers — not to speak of
myself — who have not the knowledge, that
you and your community have?"
"I can only say," Miss Viola answered,
"that
if
we all here on board think, and speak,
and act in accordance with the highest within
us — the Truth — this man Bullock will be
favorably influenced by our thoughts and acts,
and
it
would not be
a
'miracle'
if
he, too, be
came
a
man who thinks and acts the truth."
Van Hoover, looking at his sister remarked
:
"While v/e recognize the possibility,
I
am
afraid we shall not see this so-called 'mir
acle'."
,
Miss Shetland looked confused, staring
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
from one to another. As no one replied, she
asked:
"May I have an explanation, Mr. Van
Hoover? I must confess, your statement is a
mystery to me. Miss Viola holds as possible
that what she calls a miracle can take place,
while your statement seems to give the impres
sion that it can not be done."
"It is not such a mystery as you think,"
Van Hoover replied. "I can understand your
confusion, but my statement does not contra
dict sister's. We do not know the whole truth.
If we did, we should be omniscient, omnipres
ent, omnipotent. Having a partly insufficient
knowledge, we cannot perform such a miracle
— as my sister calls it."
Reflecting a moment, he continued :
"Can you agree with the 'dea that the ma
jority of those living on this ship are better,
more intelligent, healthier, and happier than
the majority in any town you know of?"
"I think I can," Miss Judith said, after re
flecting a moment.
"Very well then," Van Hoover continued,
"What is the reason? It is because the people
here know something more than those in tftat
town. Knowing more, means to be nearer the
absolute Truth. To illustrate: If I know that
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
two times two are four, I know a truth. If I
know that fire burns, I know a manifested
truth. Truths are based on laws. Every
known law of nature, that can be manifested
to you as two times two are four, is a truth for
you. It is a truth based on the law of cause
and effect, that love acts favorably and hate
causes misery. There are other laws and
other truths. As the people on the "Andro
meda' know more of the truth of cause and
effect, and know how to live in accordance
with this law, they are better, healthier,
stronger and happier than the majority of
any other group of your knowledge. It is very
simple, is it not?"
"Indeed," Miss Shetland answered, "but
what about your statement concerning Bul
lock and the miracle?"
"I will come to that shortly," Van Hoover
replied." "Although we on this ship know
something more of truths than the majority of
people in any other community, we do not
know the whole truth, that is: all the truths,
as I have said before. Consequently, we have
not the power to perform so-called 'mir
acles'." *)
*)In a world or universe of law, 'miracles' are
unknown. What seems a miracle to one, who
does not understand the law, under which a
•miracle• is performed, to another who does un
derstand, it is a natural result of the applica-
•
tion of a law of nature.
129
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Nevertheless," Miss Viola interrupted,
with a meaning glance at Van Hoover and
me, "we can attain some so-called 'miracu
lous' results by applying the knowledge of
truths we already possess, for instance: re
garding the occult laws. But go on, brother!"
"That is so," Van Hoover continued. "Half
a century ago the Christian world was skep
tical of so many things which are now accept
ed by science and the churches. Remember
only how hypnotism and telepathy were de
nounced, and yet, Buddhists and Hindoos have
known them as a science of the mental func
tions for thousands of years. The great ma
jority of people — Christians included — are
not yet able to comprehend the laws govern
ing thought and the use of the mind in the
right way."
"In support of your statement," Captain
Burton interjected, "we can see especially
among the so-called Christian nations that
suicides, murders, robberies, bribes, and other
crimes are everyday occurrences. Because,
if the people knew the laws of the mental
functions, there would be better, happier peo
ple, and better government."
"And what you! say, captain,' (Mrs. Van
Hoover commented, "shows also that Chris
130
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
tianity, — at least that of the churches — is
a failure."
"But let Reynold continue," Miss Viola re
marked, observing, as I did, that he was con
templating something.
"It is already known, "Van Hoover said,
"that you can look inside the body by the
means of an X-ray. The counterpart of the
X-ray is a person called a clairvoyant. If we
all here, from the captain to the sailor boy
were clairvoyant, we could see the thought
forms of Ritter and Bullock, and a miracle
could be performed for the simple reason that
they could not conceal their thoughts ; and we,
having superior knowledge, could use it for
their benefit and advancement. By incom
plete knowledge, people can only partly be
made free from sin, bad habits, and bad
thoughts. But if we have a greater, superior
knowledge, we can accomplish greater results
and make men free in many more ways. Do
you see, Miss Shetland, that we need more
truth to be more powerful?"
"I think, I now understand what you mean,"
Miss Shetland replied. "Jesus, then, knew
the truth, and so could do what we call mira
cles?"
"Yes, He knew the absolute Truth, that is :
131
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the whole truth or all the truths."
"And knowing the truth," Mrs. Van Hoover
chimed in, "He could rightly say: 'I am the
Way, the Truth, and the Life.' That is, if we
follow the way, His example, we shall get the
truth and the 'Truth shall set us free' ; and be
ing free, we then have life, peaceful, happy,
and serene, not as the world regards life in
its lower manifestations."
"But with the knowledge we possess," Cap
tain Burton observed, "we can do more than
the average person to change these men, Rit-
ter and Bullock. And you, doctor, can be of
great help through your knowledge of astrol
ogy."
"Indeed," I said, "I am quite sure of the aid
astrology can offer."
"Astrology is an interesting science," Wat-
so remarked, looking at me reflectively, "by
it you can come to know the 'man beneath the
mask', as it were."
"Very true," was my reply.
"I am able to understand now,' Miss Shet
land said, "that to; know the truth is impor
tant, but it looks a hopeless task in the space
of one life-time."
"It is true, "Mrs. Van Hoover replied, "that
if we had only one life to live, we could not
132
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
learn all the truth. But, according to my un
derstanding, this life we are living is not the
only life. We shall have to reincarnate many
times, so it is to our advantage to learn as
much as we can each time."
"You will find in the library some good
books on reincarnation, Miss Shetland," Van
Hoover said. "Study them and you will gain
more knowledge of what life really means."
Miss Viola now engaged me in conversa
tion. We discussed many topics in regard to
occult sciences. She seemed able to sense at
once what I was going to say. Moreover, it
seemed to me as, if she could grasp any sub
ject in its entirety at once. It gave me a queer
sensation, as I had never met any one who
had such powers. No doubt a highly evolved
spirit was incarnated in the body of this beau
tiful girl, only waiting for a favorable time to
put forth its powers.
Again the time passed, again it was time to
part, but I wished I could hold her, and with
her the passing time.
No closed eyes could prevent me from see
ing that inspirational face with its soulful, ex
pressive eyes. With the image of the girl in
mindy I fell asleep and dreamed of her whom
my soul seemed to have known for centuries,
133
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to whom in dreamland my spirit went; and
thus joined, hand in hand, we flew to a beau
tiful planet far away in the universe.
xvT
There are a thousand hacking at the branches
of evil to one who is striking at the root.
—Thoreau.
Tj^ARLY next morning I found the chief
*-* engineer at leisure on deck. I learned
from him that he had read of Bullock in the
newspapers. The statements he made con
firmed many of the indications of the horary
figure.
When we had our second council, the quar
termaster was asked to tell of the behavior of
the stowaways.
"Ritter seems willing enough to conform to
the rules," Samson related, "but Bullock is ob
stinate and grumbles most of the time. He
seems1 not to be able to see that there must be
order and rules, talks about liberty and tries
to make the men accept his theories. I over
heard him, saying to Ritter:
"You're a d— fool to trust them d— blood
suckers. These brass collars are just all birds
of one feather. You can't trust them guys."
Ritter replied :
"They treat these fellows pretty fine on this
boat, and they sure feed good."
"Hm — 'tis just bait!" Bullock continued,
134
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
scornfully. "Them fellows may be able to
pull the wool over your eyes, but they ain't
going to do it over mine ! Can't you see the
object in that? Don't you know that the big
gun is aboard himself and that he has some of
his longhaired friends with him? That guy
knows if one of the swampers should go down
to the engine room, he could gim it in fifteen
minutes so it could never move again. Them
felloms are afraid of their necks, that's why
they are trying to keep on the good side of
them. If this was a freighter instead of a pleas
ure boat, they would be getting hard tack and
black Java. I bet ye a dollar to a doughnut
that neither of them silk dolls knows that the
word 'work' is in the dictionary, and then
spilling this brotherhood stuff around here!
It don't go with me! I saw their game the
first day I was on!"
"Well," Ritter replied, "I don't know about
that!"
"Say Ritter," interrupted Bullock angrily,
"if we wasn't on this boat, I would hand you
one square between the eyes! But listen! If
you want to go dippy and fall for them, al
right, but remember, if you snitch on me, look
out ! These millionaires are all alike ! I have
not yet seen any of them guys willing to go
135
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
fifty-fifty with us workers ! You will find out
that it is all for his own gain ! He has an ob
ject in view ! You will see this sure enough !
We better keep still now — I see a guy sliding
behind that cabin back there ! A stool pigeon,
I guess, trying to get an earful. —"
"The man whom Bullock saw was the chief
steward," the quartermaster finished.
"Thank you, Samson,," the captain said, ad
miringly. "You certainly have a good mem
ory to present all their jargon in such a way as
you have done."
"I have handled such people before," Sam
son replied simply.
"That Bullen Bullock is some type, to be
sure," Henderson observed.
"Yes, indeed!" Maxwell remarked, "and
that accounts for their hiding here to get away
from America, especially as Bullock, accord
ing to the newspapers, is wanted by the police
as an agitator, troublemaker, and suspected
of sabotage."
A discussion followed, resulting in an
agreement as to how to handle these stow
aways, whereupon they were called in.
Ritter looked brighter and calmer than the
day before. Bullock seemed the same, but it
was obvious that it was a great nuisance to
136
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
him to appear again.
"Well, friends," the captain began, "what
have you to say?"
"What you want to know, captain?" Ritter
asked, politely.
"Well, to begin with," the captain went on,
"I want to ask you first, Ritter, to tell me
whether you are willing to answer our ques
tions and tell us the truth, and nothing but
the truth?"
"I will, captain," was Ritter's calm reply.
"We have reasons to believe," Burton said
in a friendly manner, "that you have left
America not so much because you were finan
cially embarrassed, but because both of you
got in trouble with the law. Tell us frankly
what you did not tell us yesterday."
Seeing Ritter's embarrassment, Van Hoover
encouragingly remarked :
"Since you have been treated here on board
in a different manner from any you have ever
experienced before, you ought to feel assured
that we have only the best intentions toward
you."
Looking from one to the other, as if to make
sure that he could confide in us, Ritter replied
at last :
"You see, captain, to begin with, I am a
socialist and belong to the Labor Union. I
137
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
identified myself with propaganda work and
finally became a speaker. Some of my friends
were inclined to use force and rebel against
conditions, arguing that as the capitalist class
was using force, we must do the same. We
agreed that the soldiers and the police were
but tools for protecting the capitalists."
He hesitated a moment, looking at us, as if
to make sure that he could speak unreserved
ly, but seeing the kind, calm face of Burton, he
continued :
"One of my friends, who has a family of six,
was discharged as not being strong enough
for his job. For a long time he was unable to
find employment. His former boss, however,
was living in luxury, having everything money
could buy. Can you not understand, gentle
men, seeing my friend's misfortune and the
indifference of his former employer, — pover
ty on the one side and wealth on the other —
that I grew bitter and rebelled more and more
against such conditions? And believe me,
gentlemen, this is not the only case.
"I come from the East, and although the
conditions are in some respect better in the
West, yet, I cannot forget what I have seen in
the big cities in the East. The capitalists and
the high officials are indifferent to the suffer
138
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ings of the lower classes in the slums ; indiffer
ent to the hell in which many are still living in
the so-called wealthy country, the United
States.
"I have sung in my boyhood of a land of
liberty, a land of glory. But tell me, gentle
men, is that glory when you find in your coun
try conditions of hell, conditions which allow
many a profiteer to take advantage of the
other's dependence? All the time the profi
teers are putting up the price of all necessities,
and conditions are getting worse !"
Rittei^s speech became more and more im
passioned as he continued:
"Is America not a 'Sweet Land of Liberty'
for the profiteer? Is it not a 'Land of the
Brave' criminals and robbers, and of 'the Free,'
to keep others in slavery, by paying them as
little as possible for hard work?
"America is a land of wealth for those who
are rich to become richer. *
) But you hardly
hear about the poor, who become poorer !"
Ritter's reproachful utterances were rein
forced by the annimation visible on his face.
*) Little wonder that the rich are rapidly growing richer
when, though but l-20th of the nation's families, they are
drawing to themselves 1-3 of the nation'3 annual production,
and 2-3 of its annual increase of wealth"- —Waldron.
(This quotation found in "Gillette's Industrial Solution/'
published— mind you!—in 1908.)
139
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
I could not deny his sincerity. We were all
listening patiently.
"Tell us," the captain said sympathetically,
"the reasons you had for leaving America."
"I will, but you see, captain," Ritter said
apologizingly, "I had to tell you my experien
ces and my ideas. As I talked on these sub
jects, I became acquainted with men of the
International Workers of the World. I could
not agree with all their ideas, however. There
was a case of sabotage in the plant of Hard-
master and Company. The injustice and bad
treatment imposed on the laborers by the man
agement of this concern were the cause of it."
Ritter paused — looking thoughtfully with
a side glance at Bullock — then continued :
"Among their employes were — besides
Union men — I. W. W.'s. I went to warn my
comrades against such actions. But too late !
Maybe I was seen in the company of the ring
leaders, and probably also at the very time I
was trying to prevent this sabotage, I was sus
pected of being one of them. As I heard from
Bullock of the possibility of arrest, and of how
others had been put in jail; moreover being
disgusted with the awful conditions of the
lower classes in America, I joined Bullock in
leaving the States. These are the reasons
we are here."
140
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
When Ritter was speaking of the sabotage,
Bullock looked at him disapprovingly and an
grily, and seemed on the point of interrupting
his comrade. Not hearing any blame put on
him, his anger soon blew over.
"Thank you, Ritter," the captain said. "Be
candid and fearless toward us, always; then
we can help you best. Now, you may both
go."
"I did not want to interrogate Bullock," the
captain remarked, addressing us, "as he
would not be as honest in telling his story."
"You are right !" Van Hoover replied. "Be
sides, we know enough for the present —
enough to deal with them."
141
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XVII.
An hour with thee! — When earliest day
Dapples with gold the eastern gray,
Oh, what can frame my mind to bear
The toll and turmoil, cark and care,
New griefs, which coming hours unfold,
And sad remembrance of the Old?
One hour with thee.
■jy^OST of my leisure time I passed in the
*** company of Miss Viola. It was a great
delight to chat with her. The more I saw of
her, the more knowledge and inspiration I
seemed to gain. I became sensitive to higher
impressions and felt that she was awakening
in me some of the powerful spirit with which
I felt she was endowed, and that I, too, might
do wonderful things in the future.
How wonderful were the experiences of
that day ! They are still vivid in my memory !
The magnetic beams of a tropical sun, fall
ing like a mantle upon us ; the clear, blue sky ;
and the calm ocean, gently rippling in a cool
breeze were reflected in my soul, awakening
in me a sense of peace and calm, and a vibra
tion of joy.
One who has not enjoyed such a day on the
Pacific Ocean, probably cannot understand
the effect it has on one's soul and mind, recep
tive to such influences.
Is it any wonder that I lost myself in the
142
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
companionship of this bright, high-minded
girl, whose fascinating personality wove a
spell of enchantment around me?
I had gone to bed that Tuesday night with
out any thought of coming trouble. I dreamed
again of her as queen of queens, and of the
impossibility that any harm could come to her.
But what was that vague remembrance of that
other dream that seemed to follow the happy
one, and why could I not recollect it when I
awoke? Was it a premonition of coming
troubles and trials, a warning for me to be
careful, or was it a presentiment that my hopes
and wishes, my imaginings and waking
dreams regarding Viola were in vain?
Although I kept from worrying, I could not
avoid thinking of Viola and the possible fu
ture. While I had been especially anxious to
obtain her birth date, something always
seemed to prevent it. Hence I had not been
able to cast her horoscope and ascertain the
possible dangers to her.
When I went on deck Wednesday morning
Viola did not appear. I could not resist ask
ing her mother who came toward me, if she
were not well.
She replied simply :
"Viola wanted to be alone this morning."
143
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
I was quite relieved to find that she came
to breakfast. The question burned on my
lips to ask why she was not as early as usual,
but again that something in her attitude pre
vented me from asking. After breakfast she
walked with me on deck until it was time for
my round of inspection.
As we parted, she said quietly:
"Dont worry about me, doctor !"
It came so unexpectedly that I could not
utter a word, so confused was I.
She sensed my feelings, as a moment later
she continued:
"Remember, character is destiny!"
My lips were unable to express my thoughts
and feelings. At last she reminded me of the
Wednesday evening meeting :
"Remember, to-night there is another lec
ture in the crew's recreation room !"
144
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
xvm
It is necessary for all men to face facts. Universal
Brotherhood as now mis-understood is an impossibility
today. This is a self-evident fact. Universal strife is
the rule, and competition the basis of existence.
—From "The Three Truths."
A S we entered the crew's salon that even-
■**■
ing I saw Ritter and Bullock in conver
sation with the quartermaster, the cook, and
one of the engineers. I then remembered that
Samson was to deliver the lecture that even
ing.
At the close of the brief lecture, Mr. Van
Hoover rose, saying:
"We will not have our usual reading in Es
peranto this evening, as we have two strangers
with us, but instead will have questions and
answers. Who will ask the first question?"
The cook rose and said :
"Allow me to ask for our friends here an
explanation of the difference between the so
cialism which Mr. Van Hoover is promoting
and that of the socialist party, or socialists in
general, and the International Workers of the
World."
Mr. Van Hoover, addressing the men, said :
"You need not be afraid to ask questions
for yourselves. I certainly will answer your
questions with pleasure.
145
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I am glad you asked that question first ; it
will enable me to put the difference at issue
between the three ideas squarely before you.
Then we can discuss their relative value.
"As you can find a definition of socialism
and its purposes in the encyclopaedia and in
other books in our library, I will only state
that its ultimate aims are the abolition of pri
vate property and the equitable distribution
of the products. But at present it teaches in
general that there should be equal opportun
ity for all in the material things of life, and
property rights as now interpreted should not
be recognized to the extent of being a detri
ment to the majority. Socialists believe that
this change into a socialistic commonwealth
can be brought about by peaceful means, by
educating the people and by settling it by the
ballot.
"I. W. W.'s and all the so-called radical
group believe practically the same thing, but
differ as to the means employed to gain the
end, advocating union of effort in changing
these conditions by force — by revolution and
overthrow of existing governments — then by
arbitrary reconstruction along lines of com
munity of interests, with equal opportunity to
all.
146
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Put concisely: the chief difference be
tween these two ways of reforming the world
is, the first would make the change by peace
ful means ; the fatter by force."
Turning to Ritter, he asked :
"Is not that a fairly correct statement of So
cialism and the I. W. W. principles?"
"Yes, sir, that's about right."
"Very well ! Now in order to bring out the
contrast, I want to say that the majority of so
cialists — and the I. W. W.'s — are accus
tomed to view themselves in particular and
life in general from a materialistic stand
point. We, however, know that there is some
thing more than the physical side of life, and
knowing this we see clearly the inadequacy
of socialism, and its faults. '
"We believe in the brotherhood of man. —
Now, do not misunderstand me as saying that
men are' equal ; for that is exactly what we do
not believe."
"Ah hell! That is just what I told you!"
blurted Bullock. "These guys just want to
hand you the soft stuff!"
Van Hoover smiled good naturedly, saying :
"Wait friend, till I get through! Neither
would it make men brothers if everything in
the world were equally divided among them,
147
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
because the feeling of brotherhood is not a
material thing. It is an act of man's spirit and
cannot be governed by man made laws, for it
is a law of nature and must be lived to be
known ; therefore, let me give you a definition
of brotherhood.
"Brotherhood is to think lovingly, speak
lovingly, and to act lovingly towards others;
it is to perceive, to understand, the association
and oneness with those around us. If we have
this sense, this feeling, then we can under
stand the true meaning of brotherhood. *)
Can you agree with this definition?"
"I think it is not difficult to understand
that," replied Ritter.
"Our next point of difference is this : We
believe that nature has produced no desire in
the human heart that cannot be gratified.
That is to say, nature has provided a way to
obtain any desire, and all we have to do is find
the means or law.
"If brotherly love is a thing of the spirit,
gratification of bodily wants alone will not
produce it. We say we love a person, be
cause our thoughts do not clash : hence we are
in harmony with each other. But to say we
love him because we have as much property
* See Illustration 10.
148
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
or money as he would be absurd.
"Astrology teaches that the starry heavens
are really myriads of magnets, each sending
out currents that are constantly changing as
they move, and scientists have found that
every magnet influences every other magnet,
the stronger pulling the weaker.
"Man's mind is not a 'dense' material thing,
and is influenced by magnetism. Hence the
positions of the immense magnets, into the
influence of which he is born, affect his trend
of mind; therefore, men born at different
times are differently influenced, and from this
fact or law, all kinds of different dispositions
arise. Consequently, if we understood this,
we should not be led into the error of trying
to make all people act in the same way. By
knowing astrology — and all other occult
sciences — we know how to group people, so
that one class or type of thinker will not clash
with another. We do not 'rub the fur the
wrong way', so to speak," Van Hoover said,
smilingly, "and thus harmony is brought
about."
Van Hoover paused and looked kindly at
the two men, as it were inviting them to speak.
Reflecting a moment, Ritter remarked:
"As I do not know astrology — in fact have
149
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
never believed in
it,
nor! in the occult sciences
—
I
cannot now judge the correctness of your
statements. Let me ask you, however, wheth
er you regard the means by which socialists
are trying to reform society as unnecessary?"
"No, because they all fit in the great scheme
of evolution. Even the means which we
would regard as unwise and unnecessary are
helping to show the socialists in the long
run what
is
right and what
is
wrong
;
what
is
truth and what is falsehood; thus giving
a
splendid opportunity to learn, chiefly by fail
ures and disappointments. We, however, do
not apply material means only in our efforts
to reform. We hold that man
is
a
spiritual
being, manifesting in
a
material body. Hence,
we must also apply spiritual means.
"Do you mean," Ritter asked, "because
some church leaders are trying to combine the
doctrines of their churches with that of so
cialism, that we have to accept the beliefs in
their dogmas as knowledge of the spiritual
side of socialism?"
"No, not at all," Van Hoover replied, "I
will try to explain what
I
mean. Have you
ever asked yourself why we live in an imper
fect world? Why
is
there so much injustice?
Why are some born poor, some criminals, and
150
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
some geniuses? Let me hear how you an
swer these questions?"
"It is because society is wrongly construct
ed," Ritter replied. "The first cause
is,
that
some scheming men have taken hold of the
land and of other productive resources; and
successively by the power of arms forced
others to submission. To this
is
added in
modern times the power of money, so that to
day
a
class of wealthy men has dominion over
a
great majority of dependent people."
"Considering
it
as
a
general rule," Van
Hoover said, "I may agree with you. But why
have these men taken hold of the land and
why are the wealthy people in power?"
Ritter could not answer immediately; the
question seemed to confuse him.
"Why," he replied at last, "I should say
because they made themselves masters, and
having money they could buy, or bribe others
to establish their power."
"I could ask you ever and anon, 'Why this?'
'Why that?' and your answer would probably
be that you blamed society as being wrong
fully constructed, or the capitalists as holding
the power.
I
want you to understand that
there
is
a
cause for every effect. Can you not
see that man
is
the cause of society and of the
151
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
present conditions in the world?"
"No doubt ! This is simple enough I"
"Notwithstanding its simplicity, socialists
generally do not go deep enough in studying
this cause. Pope has said : 'The proper study
of mankind is man'. How many have applied
this 'proper' study before they tried to reform,
or to make laws? If you will ponder long
enough, — as we have done — you will come
to the same conclusion, that we cannot pro
duce a better society without better men.
Henec the proper thing to do is to begin with
improving man's character and disposition,
and — as he is a spiritual being — awaken in
him a higher consciousness. Then he will un
derstand that selfishness causes grief and pain,
and that love only can give real happiness."
"Say, mister," Bullock scoffingly remarked,
"you may be able to put some of the people
to sleep with that love song, but believe me,
an old head like myself knows that it will take
something stronger than love to bring those
high bugs to the level. There is no love pos
sible on either side, and the quicker the two
come together and clash, the better for hu
manity!"
"That's just the trouble," Van Hoover
calmly replied, "as long as from both sides
152
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
love is not considered, no better condition can
exist" Then, speaking with emphasis:
"Again, and again, we come to the cause:
man, selfish man, undeveloped man. Again
and again I must say, we cannot expect better
society without better men ! Is that not clear
and simple to grasp?"
"It may be," Ritter replied,, "but — even
supposing that your idea of beginning with
the reform of man is the proper way — you
cannot deny that if the circumstances and sur
roundings in which the lower classes are living
were changed, so that every one had a good
house to live in, good, food to eat, and suffi
cient money, and time for recreation, we
should have better; men, and thus— better so
ciety."
"I do not deny the good influences of better
surroundings," Van Hoover replied, "but they
have not always produced better men."
During these arguments I had occasionally
observed the great interest of the audience.
Particularly Miss Shetland's eager expression
showed that this event must have been new
to her. Looking from Bullock to Ritter, she
remarked :
"I can verify Mr. Van Hoover's statement
by mentioning facts, observed in the circles
where I have moved."
153
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
She then related some of her experiences
and observations which Mrs. Van Hoover had
already told me.
"Will you allow me," the chief engineer
asked, "to add another example to those of
Miss Shetland? Friends of mine, a clergyman
and his/ wife, had given their son a most care
ful education. As may be expected of such
an education, the son should have become a
good, useful member of society, and strong
to fight against the temptations of the world.
The son had all he wanted : a good home, good
surroundings, loving parents, good schools,
etc. Hence a good road to happiness and suc
cess was created for him. Instead, however,
he became a failure."
"But is this not rather the result of a relig
ious education?" Ritter asked. "The churches
are teaching doctrines against logic and scien
tific facts. No wonder, as soon as the son was
old enough to think for himself, he became a
disbeliever — and going contrary to the pur
pose of education, became a failure."
"Yes,," Maxwell replied, "but you, say, that
good circumstances, etc., would result in pro
ducing better men. Was this not a case of
good circumstances and surroundings? Had
this son not been taught to do what is right,
154
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
even if from the standpoint of an orthodox re
ligion? However foolish or illogical, or un
scientific, the teachings of the churches may
be, the son had nevertheless splendid exam
ples of a moral life in his parents, yet he be
came an immoral man, a drunkard, a gambler,
and fell low in the scale of humanity."
"Mr. Van Hoover has said in the begin
ning," Ritter observed, "that he does not ac
cept the equality of man. Will you
"
"What's the use of wasting our breath?"
interrupted Bullock, abruptly. "As long as
these fellows won't recognize the equality of
man, we might aa( well keep mum!"
Ritter was not pleased, and glanced disap
provingly at Bullock. Then, looking at his
fingers, seemed to reflect on what to say or
to do.
Van Hoover, ignoring this interruption,
kindly remarked:
"Of course, for a man who has an 'idee fixe',
it may be very disappointing and discourag
ing—not to say disagreeable — to see his fixed
ideas or theories broken down. In the face of
what you have ,seen and experienced, can you
not see that the theory of equality is not true?
If you study this question earnestly from an
unbiassed and scientific standpoint, you will
155
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
come to the same conviction."
"I know equality does not exist now," Rit-
ter replied, unconsciously looking from Bul
lock to Van Hoover, "but we can bring about
equal conditions, or an equal opportunity for
education, advancement, living, housing, rec
reation, etc."
"Yes, we can," Van Hoover replied, "but
it would not be possible on a large scale, and
the result would not be what you expect. Na
ture herself does not provide for such equal
conditions or opportunities. The earth has
so many irregularities in climatic, topograph
ical, mineral, and geographical conditions,
that it would not be possible to accomplish
equality in the material conditions of men.
"Equality cannot be maintained on account
of the different ages of people, considering
especially the age of the soul. Even from a
material point of view, you would not deny
that an older man, having the wisdom of ex
perience and, therefore, greater knowledge,
has a deeper insight than the younger man
who has not yet had the necessary experien
ces.
"If you should stay with us long enough
until we arrive in Australia, you will have an
opportunity of seeing the great difference be
156
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
tween the qualities of the average white man
and those of the Australian aborigines. More
over, the children of the white race are far
more advanced than the adults among these
aborigines."
"That reminds me of a case," the first of
ficer said, breaking in upon the discourse,
"that will illustrate the inequality of man.
Traveling in South Africa, I made the ac
quaintance of a missionary who believed that
God, being the Father of all men, did not
make any difference between races; that
Christ was a savior also of the colored people ;
that Christianity has to be lived, and not alone
preached. Hence, he regarded the natives
around him as his equals. He adopted a negro
child and reared it with his own children, be
lieving that when it was of age it would grasp
the teachings as readily as his own children,
and be of great help in teaching the savages.
While his own children, who were younger
than the negro boy, were progressing rapidly,
the negro was backward, and inferior in every
way. The savage nature, the cruel tendencies,
could not be changed. Prayers did not help.
All his and his wife's care and love were in
vain. To his great disappointment when the
boy came of age he ran away, and became
157
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
worse than the savages around him, thus prov
ing that education and surroundings are not
sufficient to change the character."
"It might be of interest to know, if you al
low me," Phil said, looking round apologeti
cally, "to mention in addition, the complaints
of the missionary concerning the native con
verts, that they became only half civilized,
retaining their barbarous inclinations, and
notwithstanding wearing more clothes, be
came more hypocritical at the same time."
"You will find that among the white peo
ple just the same," Ritter remarked sarcasti
cally.
"By these experiences," Henderson contin
ued, ignoring the remark, "the missionary be
came wise, understanding now that men are
not born equal, that education and surround
ings are not sufficient to bring equality about."
"And the sky pilot is still on the payroll, I
guess?" Bullock interrupted, sarcastically.
"No, he happened to be an honest man, and
resigned."
"Well," Bullock replied, stubbornly, "those
guys are as scarce as hens' teeth. All that
most of them think of, is keeping their stom
ach and pocket book filled. It is easy enough
to spread a little salve along with it !"
158
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
No comments were offered to the remarks
of Bullock, and a somewhat oppressive silence
followed.
xdT
Men must reap the things they sow;
Force from force must ever flow.
—Shelley
Having a good soul, I received a good body—Buddha.
'"pHE unpleasant moment was fortunately
.*.
soon broken by the sweet, melodious
voice of Miss Viola
:
"Is there not
a
statement of old," she said,
her eyes and features expressive of the intel
lect and consciousness of the soul, "as well as
in the 'Wisdom of Solomon', that the coming
into an undefiled body was the reward of 'be
ing good'? If this
is
true,
it
must be self- evi
dent that the reward of 'being bad'
is
a
'de
fective' body. You can observe in the world
all kinds of bodies, the manifestation of the
spirits, good or bad, incarnated in these
bodies. The quality of the spirit
is
in some
cases very plainly seen on the features and by
the form of the head, in other cases
it
is
not
so easily detected. But all the differences
noticeable in men show as
a
certainty that
men are not equal. Study astrology, phren
ology, physiognomy, as Dr. Hartford has
done, and you may come to understand char
159
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
acter. Study for instance, the faces of crimi
nals: Does not every feature speak of a low,
dark soul, backward in evolution? And com
pare those faces with the
features of the beautiful
types among the nations of
the civilized world. Does
not every feature speak of a
different soul, a different
) character?" •)
The men were impressed
by the sweet voice.
"In your profession, doc
tor," Miss Viola continued,
casting her lovely eyes at
me, "have you not come
across some cases to illus-
ttrae and prove^tatements?
"0 yes, I have," I said. "A
few of the cases I can remember
very well, as they impressed me
so that for years after I have oc
cupied myself with solving the
problems of human existence
and the causes and effects of all
things.
ax "A child was born. It had a
*) Note the contrast between the form of head and fea
tures of a developed, civilized, man, in illustration 12, and
the form of head and features of an undeveloped ape, or
cave-man, represented in illustration, 11.
a&
160
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
beautiful, pure, angelic face ; a delight to look
at. It was a pleasure for me to visit my little
friend often, though it was healthy and well.
"Another child was born. It had ugly, ani
mal-like features, a head like that of a mon
key *) and a misformed body. Physicians
may become accustomed to all they see, but
this miserable, pitiful child, with its awful
face, did fill my heart with compassion, and
I confess that I could not understand at that
time why it is that such children must be born ;
why it is that they must be kept alive."
I paused a moment. Mrs. Van Hooover,
using this opportunity, requested :
"Please, doctor, will you tell us what you
think of their unequal birth and of their fu
ture?"
"I will. It can be said in a few words:
The first child was born to have a beautifuf
life, to carry out some more pleasant and fa
vorable karma in its present incarnation. The
second child, to pay a debt of a former life
by which it had earned this ugly body for its
present habitation."
"Have you," the captain inquired, address
ing Ritter, "heard or read about reincarna
tion?"
*) See note on pagt 160
161
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I have heard something about it," Ritter
replied, "but never did it interest me so much
as it does now."
"You see," the captain continued, "upon
our understanding of this law depends our
ability to understand present social conditions
and the way to reform society. This law ex
plains that man — the spirit — takes up a
physical abode on this earth to learn — each
man in a different class -- and to gain knowl
edge by experience, thus fitting himself for
the next and higher step in the next incarna
tion on earth. Do you understand?"
"I confess," Ritter replied, after some re
flection, "it looks neither illogical nor impos
sible!"
"Now then," Burton continued, "what
would you think of an ordinary school where
the students declared that they could do with
out their teachers, and that they could come
to school in the same class, making no differ
ence between older and younger students?"
"That would be foolish and unlikely!"
"Now then, the same thing is true of a com
munity of workers."
"But what would be your idea of a good or
ganized society? "Ritter inquired.
'We may compare it to the human body,
162
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
with its different limbs and organs, all doing
their part of the work to preserve the body.
The members of society are as different limbs
and organs, doing different work to preserve
the body of society. As the human body can
not do without the head and brains, so society
cannot do without its head and the intelli
gence of government. As the arms and legs of
a human body are carrying out the orders of
the head, so there are members of a commu
nity who are carrying out the orders of the
government. The intelligent and wise peo
ple of a country are to be at the head of the
state."
"This is simple enough," Ritter confessed.
"And yet," Burton said, "only a few can
see that it is the logical organization, espec
ially necessary as long as mankind is ruled by
the law of karma and reincarnation. You
want another illustration?"
"Let us have it!"
"Compare society to a family," Burton con
tinued, "the head of the state to the father;
the government to the parents. The members
of the society are as a brotherhood in a fam
ily. But as with elder brothers and sisters,
who are wiser — knowing more by learning
and experience — so in a society of brother
163
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
hood there are naturally those who have had
more experience and are, therefore, more ad
vanced. We have the younger brothers, sis
ters, and babies in a family, so in society,
the inexperienced and unwise need the care
and help of the elder and wiser. The social
ists should consider the importance of this
question.'
"And yet," the first officer observed, "a
German socialist has said that 'in a socialistic
business no foreman is needed, and all are
equals'."
"Karl Marx, and Bebel, and other German
socialists have preached their gospel accord
ing to the knowledge they had, which was ma
terialistic and not broad enough to see and un
derstand all laws in nature."
"I understand your explanations now much
better," Ritter confessed, "but reasoning from
your statements, there is no question of lib
erty."
"No, indeed," Van Hoover replied. "We
are not entirely free ; at least, not in the sense
that the socialists and many other 'ists' con
sider it. We are bound by the laws of nature
in the first place ; then we are at present bound
by existing man-made laws; and as long as
humanity is in process of evolution, we shall
164
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
have laws or rules by which we are bound."
"Astrology and other occult sciences," Miss
Viola observed, "would explain it thorough
ly."
"Yes," I said, "and from these sciences we
would also be able to judge who are free and
who are not."
"Just so," Van Hoover remarked, "only a
few highly advanced people have the freedom
to act according to their will, because, being
advanced souls, they act in harmony with the
good and perfect law, and they are free to act
against every man-made law."
"But it is claimed," Ritter observed, "that
man is born free, or born in a free country,
and that there is, or ought to be, liberty. I
confess, as long as the present society exists,
liberty is only a phrase."
"A while ago, Captain Burton gave an illus
tration," Van Hoover continued, "of the stu
dents in a school. You have seen that it is im
possible for students to be free. The children
of a family are also not free. Can there be
liberty as long as man is imperfect, inexperi
enced, and knows so little?"
"I see," Ritter said, "but it is somewhat con
fusing to me, these new theories."
"Yes," Van Hoover observed, inexpe
165
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
rienced and unaccustomed as you are to think
along these lines. But study and contempla
tion will give you more light."
"Anarchists would not agree with you,"
Ritter remarked.
"May I give an illustration?" Maxwell
asked. "Once I had a discussion with an an
archist, whose house was near a railroad. As
if Heaven were providing a splendid illustra
tion to show this anarchist the foolishness of
his theories, the whistle of a locomotive was
suddenly heard. The wife screamed frantic
ally, uttering a name. The man ran out. I
followed, seeing him running to the railroad,
and with the swiftness of thought, he seized
the arm of a little child, his daughter, who was
playing on the railroad track, unconscious of
the danger. When the excitement was over,
I said to the parents : 'As you saw your child
playing on the railroad track, and not having
time to warn
it,
knowing the coming danger,
you used your power to save it. Defenseless-
ness on one side, might and main on the other
!
Now apply this illustration to society."
"Speaking of
a
railroad," Phil remarked,
"Maxwell reminds me of
a
railroad organiza
tion.
I
cannot imagine
it
without
a
leader or
manager. How could anarchy exist there?"
166
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Impossible," Van Hoover replied, "just as
we cannot do without Captain Burton on this
boat, although he is partly dependent on his
officers, sailors, and others. A sailor has the
right and the same opportunity to become
a captain, but a captain there must be, in any
case ! Isn't that clear and simple enough?"
"Oh, it is simple enough," Ritter replied,
"but not everywhere do we find the best and
the ablest in command."
"No," Van Hoover said, "but the people can
only expect an imperfect government in so
far as they themselves are imperfect. But we
can try to bring about a better world. True it
is what Plato has said that 'the happiness of
each and of all is not possible, before the wise
and perfect in virtue are at the head of
states'."
"But it is not expected," Viola observed,
"that in one life, in one incarnation, perfection
will be attained. Traditional opinions of men
change slowly. The evolution of man works
slowly. And only little by little men are able
to apply new ideas, new rules, and new con
ditions."
"Try to comprehend all that is said, Ritter,"
(Burton advised, "and study! Before we can
understand astrology, for instance, we have
jto
J67
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
study
it,
as Doctor Hartford has done, then
observe and make experiments."
"Allow me," Maxwell said, "to give an illus
tration that might help Ritter and Bullock.
IfI should tell an African savage that the
earth isround and moves around its axis
;
that
the sun is not
a
disc but
a
globe, bigger than
the earth — this savage, who never went to
school and who has always regarded the earth
as flat and the sun
a
diec, or as
a
light coming
up in the morning and going down in the even
ing — there
is
a
likelihood that
I
should be
regarded as
a
liar, or worse
:
they would point
to their heads meaningly implying that
I
was
crazy. Or
if
they had the power, they would
do as in the middle ages: burn me at the
stake. Therefore, people who have learned
the laws of karma and reincarnation, astrolo
gy, etc., can understand our views on social
ism, and others cannot. They should not say,
however, that we are wrong before they have
investigated for themselves and assimilated
the same knowledge and science
!"
"Is this attitude," Phil observed, "of un
willingness to study the other man's point of
view not
a
cause of intolerance, and the reason
that we see, and hear, and read, so much of
unbrotherly actions in churches, societies, un
168
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ions, etc., that claim fraternity? There is even
hatred, envy, discord !"
"Yes, why so much disagreement?" asked
Miss Shetland, who had been listening intent
ly during these discussions.
"It is as Henderson ex
plained," Burton replied,
"and bebcause brotherhood
does not exist among them;
there is no feeling and sense
of oneness with those
around them. The very fact
of having an 'ism' causes
them, to separate them
selves from their fellows
"How do you propose to
bring about this brother
hood?" Ritter asked, ad
dressing Van Hoover.
"Our idea is to educate
enough people in the great
basic laws of magnetism as
understood in the science of
astrology, and send them
forth in the world as Aquar
ian pioneers to induce so
cieties, communities, states,
and nations to adopt a regu
lar system of education along the lines of as
'As brave Aquarian
Pioneers
' '
169
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
trology. Let me illustrate what I mean. Take,
for instance, one of our common schools. If
these great truths, of which I speak, could be
brought to the minds of the educators, and
their prejudices overcome sufficiently to try
for a month or so, the application of astrology
in their schools, they would be astonished at
the results.
"As the solar system is entering the sign
Aquarius, we shall see in due time these, our
ideals, realized. But we have to work for it as
true and brave Aquarian Pioneers."
Looking at the clock, Van Hoover re
marked :
"It is getting late. Miss Viola will treat us
to some music."
XX.
"Then give to the world the best you have,
And the best will come back to you.
Give love, and love to YOUR heart will flow,
A strength in your utmost need;
Have faith, and a score of hearts will show
Their faith, in YOUR word and deed."
—Ralph Waldo Trine.
On seeing one thing we are reminded of
others connected with it.—Sanscrit Proverb.
'"pHURSDAY morning when I awoke, I
.*.
could feel that we were nearing the
equator. I had my usual stroll on deck with
Mrs. Van Hoover and Miss Viola. We dis
cussed the meeting of the previous evening
170
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
and the subject was continued at breakfast.
After breakfast, as I went on my usual
round of inspection, I was surprised to see Rit-
ter and Bullock in a hot discussion. When
they saw me, they stopped talking; Bullock
went to the railing and Ritter saluted.
At luncheon of the following day — Friday
— Captain Burton said that Ritter had re
ported to the quartermaster for work, saying
that he did not want food and shelter without
doing something for it in return.
"How about Bullock?" Mrs. Van Hoover
asked.
"It is hard to tell," replied the captain,
"I asked Ritter if I should also find a place for
Bullock. He said 'No'; Bullock probably
thinks the world owes him a living and he isn't
going to work for any capitalist. The quar
termaster told his men not to pay any atten
tion to Bullock, but to leave it to the example
of others to make him ashamed of himself."
"Yes," I said. He is a Taurus character,
and you cannot drive him."
"You give him a nice chance," remarked
Miss Shetland disdainfully, "to take advan
tage of your goodness. No one else would do
what ypu are doing for him."
"Yes, Judith," Mrs. Van Hoover replied,
171
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"but here is an opportunity to prove our theory
that thoughts have power, and to show our de
velopment. Let us have good and kind
thoughts of brotherly love, so that he may do
the right thing."
"It is true," Burton observed, "that many
others would force Bullock to work, but if they
were in the same circumstances, they would
take advantage of the conditions just the
same. In a community of better men, how
ever, as we consider our men on board, they
would not be able to stand that very long; they
would feel unhappy and, through self-accusa
tion, would at last be forced to work."
A tropical sun and no wind since the morn
ing made it too warm to stay long in the din
ing room, although electric fans were revolv
ing.
We were on deck ; all gathered around the
rattan table in easy chairs.
I had an ardent student in Miss Viola. Since
the few times that we had talked on astrology
and phrenology, she wanted to learn the de
tails more thoroughly. Astrology especially
seemed to appeal to her more and more : she
could grasp it so easily; it was a delight for
me to teach someone who was so interested.
The others were reading or talking to one
172
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
another. But I soon forgot them and the heat,
too.
As I looked at Viola's beautiful, expressive
face, and felt her great love and the purity of
her mind, my soul bowed in adoration, as one
worshipping before the altar of his God.
Should I ever be able to reach the height
she had attained?
My meditation, however, had come abrupt
ly to an end, as our attention was attracted by
the words of Burton, when he came from the
bridge toward us, pointing to the horizon, ex
claiming :
"Have you noticed that steamer following
us?"
We all crowded round him at the railing.
Mr. Van Hoover, taking the field-glass from
his hand, scanned the horizon.
"It is not an ordinary steamer!" the captain
remarked. "It seems to be following us, but
as we have an unusual course, I wonder why
it follows the same direction."
"If it is not a freighter or passenger," Mrs.
Van Hoover inquired, "What then? A war
ship?"
"Really," Burton replied, "I do not know;
we shall have to wait and see whether it is
going to change its course."
173
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"It is queer," observed Van Hoover. "It
seems not to be on its way to South America,
or Central America, not taking into account
that it could follow this course to Australia or
Tahiti."
"Could it be a French mariner,captain?"
Mrs. Van Hoover inquired. "If I am right, the
French possess the Marquesas and Tuamotu
Islands. Would it be going towards those
islands?"
"I hardly think so, Mrs. Van Hoover. Why
should a French warship be in this latitude
and longitude? Its course is evidently not
from the Hawaiian Islands, nor from the
United States, and surely not from Panama.
If it came from Canada it certainly would not
make the journey from Vancouver just for the
Tuamotu Archipelago. If it is a French
steamer, why is it so far from the French pos
sessions?"
I had been observing it through my glasses,
but was not able to judge what steamer it was,
nor its course.
"It
is,
of course, out of the question, "Van
Hoover remarked, "that
it
has the same object
as we have."
"Can't you ask for information?" inquired
Miss Shetland.
174
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I wished to see Mr. Van Hoover before
sending a wireless," Burton replied, turning to
Van Hoover.
"Perhaps, captain," the latter replied, "it
would be as well to first satisfy ourselves that
it is following us. Give orders to lessen the
speed of the yacht and see if the stranger does
the same."
The captain left us, going to the bridge.
Soon the "Andromeda" was sailing very
slowly.
We watched the movements of the other
ship through our field glasses. There was lit
tle doubt now but that it was following our
movements.
We went to the bridge to talk to the captain.
The chief engineer had come up too and was
just remarking that the mysterious steamer
had lessened its speed. He suggested that
we speed up, then, if the steamer did likewise,
there could be no doubt it was following us.
"That's a good idea," Van Hoover said.
"Give the order, captain."
As the "Andromeda" quickened speed, it
seemed as though the stranger would be lost
in the distance ; but only for a short time ; in
the course of an hour it was advancing again
rapidly.
175
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Hardly any doubt," remarked the chief en
gineer, "it is a warship, as its speed suggests
powerful engines."
"Indeed," the captain agreed, "no doubt
whatsoever!"
Orders had been given to raise our flag.
"I cannot see its flag. Can you?" Van
Hoover asked.
"No," Phil replied, "I cannot!"
"Wire for information, captain," said Van
Hoover. "Perhaps it is not superfluous to tell
its captain that we sail under the American
flag and that we should like to know his flag."
We waited, but no answer came from the
ship.
'Could the wireless be out of order?" Miss
Shetland inquired.
"It is possible, but not probable," the first
officer replied. ,
"Then," Mrs. Van. Hoover observed, i"it
cannot have friendly intentions."
"At least," said the marconist, "if the boat
has wireless installation its captain is lacking
in manners, not to answer our inquiry.'
"To what nation could it belong?" Miss
Shetland asked.
"I do not know, but I have suspicions," the
first officer replied.
176
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Well," Van Hoover remarked, "we had
better wait before we give words to bad sug
gestions. We know it is not wise to concen
trate our minds on unpleasant thoughts."
During dinner we did not discuss the steam
er, but calmly talked on other topics.
After dinner we had music in the salon,
but we went on deck often to look for the mys
terious steamer. Nothing was seen, however,
and we thought (all except Burton) that she
had changed her course ; he inclined to the be
lief that she was sailing without lights.
I must confess that I passed a very restless
night. My thoughts went back to the dream
I had before we left San Francisco.
177
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXI.
Pear has many eyes—Cervantes.
Great men are they who see that spritual is stronger
than material force, that thoughts rule the world.
—Emerson.
AS
soon as it was daylight I was up and
went to the bridge, where I found a group
of officers and the second engineer.
The topic of conversation was, of course,
the strange ship, which could now be seen
behind us.
"The odd thing about her," one officer re
marked, "is that she carried no light during
the night."
"Of course," the engineer observed, "she
followed the yacht, guided by our lights."
"You did not get an answer?" I asked the
marconist.
"No, doctor, they did not reply."
"There is but one nation on earth that
would have such polite manners," said the en
gineer ironically.
"How strange," I thought, "why did she not
answer our wireless? Why sailing in such a
mysterious way? Why did she follow us? At
least why the same course?"
All these questions came to my mind, but,
178
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
as yet, the mystery remained unsolved.
The ladies came on the bridge, followed by
Van Hoover. They were calm, with the ex
ception of Miss Shetland, who appeared ner
vous.
After breakfast, when we were on deck,
there was a certain uneasiness about us which
we tried to conceal from one another. Miss
Viola and I were a little apart from the others.
She hinted at something that seemed to justify
the uneasiness and my own presentiments.
I could not tell her, however, my own feel
ings and thoughts, as Burton suddenly called
out:
"Look! She is changing her course to a
South-Easterly direction."
Van Hoover looked through his field-glasses
while the captain handed his to Mrs. Van
Hoover.
"Indeed, that is so," Van Hoover said. "If
we only could detect her flag."
"The distance is too great," responded Bur
ton.
By luch time the stranger was sailing at lar
board, and now we could see it distinctly
enough to leave no doubt that it was a battle
ship.
"For heaven's sake !" the captain ejaculated
179
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
impatiently, "what do they want?"
It was the first time that I had seen Burton
irritated, yet it was little wonder, considering
the great responsibility that rested upon him.
As we had passed the equator during the
night, and had suffered a great deal from the
effects of the tropical sun during the last days,
the knowledge of the presence of the myster
ious ship did not add to our comfort.
Mrs. Van Hoover made the remark that the
best way to cool off was to swim, and our
nearest approach was to lie in the bathtub.
"Not a bad idea," Van Hoover remarked,
jokingly.
"Then," added Miss Viola, "let us all do it!"
"If the water becomes hot," Van Hoover re
marked, "you can order some ice to cool it off
again !'
"That is a capital idea," I observed ; then
catching Miss Viola's eye, I said, jokingly:
"Let the heat not cause you to fall asleep in
your tub, Miss Viola."
"Will you wake me at five o'clock, if I do,
doctor?" she replied, laughingly.
In this way, joking and laughing, we all
went to our cabins, trying to forget the battle
ship near by.
After putting on my pajamas I stretched
180
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
out on my berth. The tropical heat was giving
me a feeling of drowsiness and I dropped into
a doze.
After the nap I took a refreshing bath which
restored my calmness. As the clock struck
five I seated myself in an easy chair and sent
my thoughts to Miss Viola, concentrating on
peace, calmness and faith that all would be
well.
When I went toward the aft deck no one
was there. Looking up at the bridge and see
ing Van Hoover and the captain at the railing
with their field-glasses, I joined them. I
learned that the battleship was no longer in
sight. I did not pay much attention to the re
marks of Van Hoover and Burton seeing Miss
Viola coming on deck. I went down and
joined her.
"Did you have a nice sleep in your bath tub,
Miss Viola?" I asked, smilingly.
"Yes, thank you," she returned with twink
ling eyes. "What about yourself? You look
so happy and refreshed ! I suppose you had
a nap in your bath tub, too !"
She had never made such a remark before
or commented on my looks. She was not in
the habit of giving compliments.
"I thank you very much for your prompt
181
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
call at five o'clock, doctor. You awoke me
from musings of a delightful journey, and
brought me back to the material plane."
"I hope," I replied, "that I did not cause you
regret; but tell me, did you receive my tele
pathic message as consciously as your words
seem to indicate?"
"Yes, I did," she replied, looking at me with
her soulful eyes in which I seemed to read
something more than her words could tell.
"Miss Viola," I said, earnestly, "perhaps,
— no, surely — I need helpful thoughts from
you, too ! You are so calm and poised, so at
ease, as if nothing could harm you or turn you
aside, waiting with tranquil faith for the trials
that you know will come. I have not always
the calm faith that I wish I had."
She smiled, but soon her eyes and brows
began to show that she was contemplating an
answer. At last she replied, quietly:
"Doctor, I have not always had the calm
ness I now possess, but during the past few
years I have had many experiences from
which I learned my lessons. So I am improv
ing rapidly. My inner self seems to be ex
panding in consciousness, it seems to under
stand, to grasp, and g'ense. mote dfeeply. I
have always believed that we can. become
182;
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
masters in this art of self control, and I have
reached even that stage in which I am able to
receive your kind telepathic messages."
I was about to reply when I saw Mrs. Van
Hoover and her son coming toward us.
We enjoyed our evening meal, untroubled
by the sight of the battleship, which we
seemed to have lost in the distance.
XXII.
Yet live In hatred, enmity and strife
Among themselves, and levy cruel wars.
Wasting the earth .each other to destroy.
—"Paradise Lost."
Man, Ignorant of the law of force,
Doth send the storm upon its course
His hatred and his vicious will
Combine as power to strike and kill.
—Mary E. Beers.
"117* E had gone to the salon after finishing
* * dinner. Presently Miss Viola said to her
mother :
"Mother dear, I am going on deck for a
while. It is very warm in here."
"All right, dear!"
Turning to me, Miss Viola said :
"Will you accompany me, doctor?"
"Of course I will," I answered, glad to be
with her.
"Let us go to the bow," Viola suggested,
"there is mdre chan•ce for a breeze •there. It
183
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
is very warm in the salon, notwithstanding all
the electric fans."
"I am glad you asked me to accompany
you," I said eagerly, hoping to have a chance
this time to continue our conversation of the
afternoon.
"I knew you were suffering from the heat,
but you would not dare to leave us." And
jokingly she added : "Still a slave of conven
tionality!"
"I will not defend myself," I replied, "but
I am sure you know better, as you can read my
thoughts."
On our way we passed some of the sailors,
seated on the front deck; some were talking
together, some reading, near and under a big
electric lamp; another playing a guitar, sur
rounded by a few listeners.
As we came near the bow where the lights
were not so strong, we heard talking, as if
someone were delivering a speech. We stop
ped and were much surprised at recognizing
Bullock's voice. We sat down onto a coil of
rope to listen.
"It is all very well to talk about brotherhood
and love," Bullock was saying, "but did you
see that man-killer? Every inch cf steel and
all the other material used is produced by the
184
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
poor working stiff, and all he gets out of it is
a mere living. And the capitalistic class will
try to tell you that these ships are built to pro
tect our great country; but I want to tell you
fellows that the government is just made out
of people whom the capitalists could bribe
into government jobs, and by these means
they keep battleships, armies, and a police
force to keep down any kind of talk for the
betterment of society. Don't you fellows ever
think for yourselves? Why, a blind man can
see that there is only one way out of it: Do
away with these damnable capitalists and
their pups who are governing the country, be
cause they won't do anything but what helps
the capitalist class. It's as plain as day and
the quicker we start the ball a rolling the bet
ter it will be for us."
"But, Bullock," one of the men remarked,
"you consider it wrong that the capitalists
keep fleets, armies, etc., for destruction, but
you recommend destructive methods yourself
when you say that the working class has to get
rid of its oppressors."
"Of course," Bullock replied, obstinately,
"an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Who
is the cans; s of the misery of the working
clas?, ? Who robbed the -poor people of their
185
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
chances for making a living? Who get away
with the biggest profits out of the sweat of the
workers? The workers, or the capitalists?
Tell me! How did these millionaires get
their money if not by means of paying
as little wages as possible in order to make
big profits? No sir! I tell you fellows there
is no other way to heal the sickness of society
except by getting rid of the roots : pulling out
the roots with all the force you can get to
gether."
The cook interrupted by saying :
"It is an old Jewish rule : 'eye for an eye,'
but the great Master said that love is the only
remedy for sickness and suffering which oth
ers have brought upon us. 'Love one another'
is the rule."
"Say, cook!" broke in Bullock, "what kind
of a guy are you? Don't you know Jesus was
a Jew? No sir! that is no good remedy and
say, if it were, the churches don't believe
it,
not from the middle ages up till today! Be
fore Brugolia started this war didn't her min
isters yell that war ought to be? Don't they
believe in bloodshed? Why, cook! They
don't believe in anything else
!
As soon as the
slaves get too thick they start
a
little pow-wow
and let them kill one another, so
it
will be
186
saaaNou Nvravnbv am
easier to keep the upper hand. That they be
lieve in it is also because it agrees with the
capitalists' laws which you here on this ship
call man-made laws. And according to this
religious dope you have been handing out for
two thousand years, it has not worked. The
poor are getting poorer, the rich richer. The
only way to get rid of them bloodsuckers is
by force!"
"But Mr. Van Hoover and our officers are
not using force," the steward remarked, "they
do all they can for us and for humanity. And
see how the ladies are treating us. They live
their theories of brotherhood and love toward
men."
"Yes," the cook chimed in, "and do you
think many other young society girls would
deign to mingle with common workers such
as we are?"
"I agree with you this little lady here is
mighty nice, but these here soft methods have
always been preached by those who are sup
posed to be the teachers of the people, who
are supported by the capitalist class; and them
bloodsuckers gladly pay donations to the
churches to keep up the ignorance of the com
mon people and make them tame, so they can
use them, so they can make millions of •ddllalrs
187
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
out of their sweat."
"Well, Bullock," one of the listeners said,
"you seem not to be able to see the difference
between the true and the false doctrines of
Christianity."
"Say!" blurted Bullock, impatiently, "did
you ever stop to think that the rotten products
we can see in the capitalistic systems are the
fruits from a rotten tree of Christianity? If
Christianity is based on love, they would do
away with the noose, but they believe in it
and have no more respect for a man's life than
for that of a dog. Why don't they practice
that love stuff on these so-called criminals?
Why, boys, half of them are strung up almost
without a trial, and if they do get one the jury
is fixed before it gets in the box. They don't
even give them a chance to become better men
by killing them."
"But that is not what the Masters of Wis
dom have taught," the steward interrupted.
"And it shows that the Christian world is ma
terialistic and that it doesn't care a bit for the
souls of the victims of capital punishment."
Bullock shrugged his shoulders and went
on:
"This here cook said that Jesus said to the
Pharisees, 'Whom of you is without sin, throw
188
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the first stone upon her', then to the poor sin
ner, 'Go and sin no more !' But the Christian
judge says : 'You'll be hanged by the neck till
dead, dead — dead !"
"We cannot deny," the cook replied, "that
the Christian world is far from following the
teaching of the great Masters. But it does not
take away the fact that their teachings are
Love and Truth, and that the reconstruction
of society can only be accomplished by Love
and Truth."
"Look here, fellows, "Bullock continued,
"what do you think is happening in Europe
right now? They have got one of these cap
italists' love preachers to go out in front of
every regiment and bless them, before they
start out to murder the fellows on the other
side, praying: 'Oh Lord, do thou give victory
upon our banner to-day !' Put in plain United
States I. W. W. language: 'Oh, Lord, please
help us cut the other fellow's throat!' Them
money bags don't depend on love and truth !
Bah ! They slap us, socialists and I. W. W.'s
into jail on some phony charge. The laws on
seditions they got passed show the love in
their hearts and explain their conception of
brotherhood."
"There will come a punishment," the stew
189
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ard remarked, "for every injury and violation
of another's right, if not in this, then in an
other life."
"It is all very well to talk about your laws
of reincarnation and the rights you will get
in another life; mighty poor satisfaction for
a hungry stomach. I want my chance in this
life."
There was a pause ; then the cook said :
"To get rid of battleships, the majority of
people all over the world must understand
that war is a crime, and the cause of the great
est misery. Then they will be careful in the
election of rulers, so that they cannot get into
government positions."
"And to get the majority to see this you
have to educate them," the steward remarked.
"Well fellows, I have listened and watched
the performance since the few days I am on,
but I want to tell you there is simply nothing
to it. All this stuff they talk here is bunk. I'll
give you a little illustration: Say, the quar
termaster, or one of those guys gets sick or
kicks off, you would see the rest of the bunch,
including the kingsnipe himself, fall all over
themselves trying to help him by doing his
work. I should not be a bit surprised but one
of the skirts would offer to do his duty. Well,
190
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
now let one of the coalbunkers get sick and
see how many of them will take his place —
there wouldn't be one ! But they would come
down here and soft-soap you fellows, take out
one of your watches and put him down there.
Are you fellows so thick-headed that you can't
see that? And that religious stuff ! You have
been around large cities enough to see what
that is made of. You know what happens to
the men who are broke. They land in one of
these hallelujah missions — sick, broke, and
all shot to pieces. They get around them and
in ten minutes from the time that they enter,
they have a pair of wings on the roughnecks.
Now, that's right and you know it ! When it
is time to close they get a cup of Java and a
couple of sinkers and they allow them to flop
on the floor for the night. They hang around
for two or three days, then the cop gives them
orders to get out of town or get pinched.
And then they are on their way, looking for
a new slave master. That is one kind of re
ligion. I don't know how soft you fellows are,
maybe your stomachs will have to touch the
backbone before you take a tumble to your,
self, but I tell you, here is one that is solid to
the core and I got these experiences through
hard knocks from such grafters as you have
191
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
on your ship here. They are all alike!"
Miss Viola rose, touching my hand, and
whispered :
"Let us go!"
We slipped silently away, and on reaching
the aft deck, I placed a double wicker chair
where we could sit and look off over the ocean.
The vehement speech of Bullock, carrying
much of truth, spoken in such blunt language,
opened up a vista of the real position of the
masses that could not be gainsaid, and al
though I know these things, I realized more
than ever before that no system of social re
form had yet really probed to the bottom of
this need. It silenced me and set me off on a
train of speculations as to whether this strange
voyage and Van Hoover's untried plan would
be the solution of this great world problem.
The girl beside me undoubtedly felt the
same, for her gaze was far off over the waste
of water. Was her mind disturbed or was her
soul so poised that even though she felt com
passion for the helpless, her own poise was un
disturbed and her life held to its calm, even
flow, nevertheless, knowing that in the vast
bosom of time all would be right?
192
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXIII.
Life, with all it yields of joy and woe
And hope and fear, believe the aged friend,
Is just our chance of the prize of learning love,
How love might be, hath been indeed, and is.
—Browning.
T T was Sunday again !
Ten days on board! How those days
had passed ! I had no reasons for weariness
or being bored by anyone or anything! There
was a variety of discussions with a variety
of people under a variety of circumstances!
Many happy hours were spent in the great
beautiful salon or in the library, and even in
the crew's recreation room, where we com
pared our mutual advancement, studied the
higher topics of life, and laid plans for the de
velopment of the Aquarian Brotherhood.
During the hours that Van Hoover and I
were engaged alone, the ladies were occupied
among the officers and men, helping them
with their studies and trying to help them
solve their problems, taking Miss Shetland
with them, as she was gradually grasping the
truths of Van Hoover's great plan.
Captain Burton seemed to fit in everywhere.
He would attend our talks, or going among
the sailors and men, he would help one here,
or critter another' with some kind worti, thus
1S8
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
shedding enthusiasm and brotherly love all
round.
On that memorable tenth day of our voy
age, everyone on board appeared to feel re
lieved. It seemed as if with the equator be
hind us, we had left behind that oppressive
feeling, caused by the presence of the battle
ship and by the heavy tropical atmosphere.
Though it was still unpleasantly warm in the
cabins and salons, it was becoming better on
deck, especially towards the evening, as a cool
breeze had set in.
A delightful evening it surely was !
A sparkling sky with silver moonlight had
replaced a beautiful golden sunset when we
came on deck, Viola and I, leaving Mrs. Van
Hoover with Miss Shetland in the salon, while
Van Hoover and Burton had gone to the li
brary.
We were seated near each other in that cosy
corner between the palms, the soft breezes
whispering gently through the leaves, rousing
in me recollections of the sweetest songs of
love and longings, induced by the celestial
music of this wonderful girl during the day
just passing, and which heart-thrilling sounds
were still filling my soul with an unspeakable
feeling of love, peace, and harmony, yet•long
194
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ing for expression.
"Then why repress the sacred truth,
And in my heart of hearts conceal,
The flame that fires my soul for sooth,
So pure, so precious to reveal !" *
)
Whence this silent voice that came from the
depths of my soul? What message had it for
me?
I looked at the stars above the blue, mus
ingly. Where was that wondrous evening
star, the star of love and dreams? From the
star-lighted heavens my glance turned toward
the fascinating girl.
Her dreaming eyes were gazing over the
rippling waves and into the vasty deep of that
mystic realm beyond the horizon, her face re
flecting the ecstacy of her soul.
Neither of us spoke.
"Thought is deeper than all speech ;
Feeling deeper than all thought;
Souls to souls can never teach
What unto themselves was taught.' **)
The calmness of the night, the flickering
stars above, the stillness around us, all were
mighty powers to bring my soul, my whole be
ing, into rapture, and to forget the unpleasant
trials, which we knew were sure to come. But
*) By Rev. Irl Hicks.
**)• By C. P. draich. »
195
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
in her presence all was forgotten. I gazed at
her, but the words that were burning on my
lips I dared not utter.
She felt my gaze and turned her head to
ward me. As I looked into those soulful eyes,
I read, — my God, can it be true -- is it pos
sible?
There was a moment I wanted to take her
in my arms and tell her that I loved her —
that I could not conceal it any longer — then,
another moment of doubt, of thinking that she
was far above me in spiritual growth, that
she was the one woman I had ever met whose
perfection showed what was lacking in me,
and who always understood me.
Viola moved her fan to and fro ; then bring
ing it against her face as if to conceal her own
emotions, glanced over it at me. I could only
see her smiling, lovely eyes, but that was
enough to stir my feelings into burning inten
sity. Her name was quivering on my lips.
She answered with her wonderful eyes, that
she, too, loved me — that she wanted me,
wanted me dearly as I wanted her. — She
stretched her arms toward me. I gathered her
close to my heart; words were not necessary!
We knew that we were one ; a perfect whole,
in perfect harmony; that we belonged td each
196
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
other; that it was not only in one life in which
we were united, but in many incarnations be
fore!
When I looked into her sweet face and
gazed into her eyes, moist with tears, I under
stood that they were tears of happiness, as my
own eyes were moist, realizing the great bless
ing that had come into my life. I never
thought that I could love, or could be loved
with such deep intensity.
Our lips met in one long kiss, then drop
ping her head on my shoulder, she said :
"My dear, do you not feel that our love will
give us greater wisdom and higher spiritual
ity?"
"Yes, Viola," I replied, fervently, "you
have opened my eyes. Your love is stronger
than mine, as you needed no words to con
vince me that you loved me."
"Yes, dear," she said, looking at me with
her laughing, and loving eyes, "words, are not
necessary, nor adequate to express the inner
most feelings of the soul !"
Once again I held her in a close embrace
and sealed our love with a kiss.
"Viola, dearest, love," I said, happily smil
ing at her, "shall I ever be able to tell you
how dear you are to me?"
197
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
She smiled, and said :
"Dearest, I think we had better go inside.
Mother will wonder what has become of us!"
We were gazed upon with wondering eyes
when we entered the salon. They must have
seen our happiness, for the light of heaven
was still on our faces.
Mrs. Van Hoover seemed to sense the great
love that had come to us. She rose, embrac
ing her daughter, while Viola whispered in
her ear. Extending her hands to me with a
happy smile on her face, she said :
"Doctor, how happy I am to hear that you
each have found the one in all the world for
you. I have no doubt whatever of my daugh
ter's good judgment. I have always had a
presentiment of this, but never said a word to
anyone, and behold ! it came true ! How proud
and how delighted I am. Let me welcome you
as my future son."
I kissed her hand, saying from a full heart :
"Thank you, mother! I can hardly believe
it is true, that this great love has come to me.
I am the happiest man alive!"
Miss Shetland who had been standing a
short distance from us came forward and
congratulated us. The officers followed her
example.
198
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
In the meantime Mrs. Van Hoover had gone
to call her son and now returned with him,
arm in arm, followed by the captain.
After kissing his sister affectionately, Van
Hoover shook hands with me, saying :
"I am delighted to hear of this, Indeed ; as
it will strengthen our ties. God bless you
both!"
"Well, well," saidi the captain, smiling, "al
low me to join in offering my congratulations !
Your radiant face reveals your happiness. God
bless you!" Then to me: "Well, by George,
doctor, you are a lucky man ! Receive my best
wishes !"
And that night, falling asleep, I took over
my thoughts into dreamland, and there Viola
and I continued (in our spirit bodies) our
communion in perfect bliss.
"With thy sweet Soul, this Soul of mine—
Hath mixed as Water doth with wine.
Who can the Wine and Water part,
Or me and Thee when we combine?"
199
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXIV.
As half in shade and half in son
This world along its path advances
May that side the sun s upon
Be all that e'er shall meet thy glances!— Thomas Moore
Laugh at all things, great and small things,
Sick or well, at sea or shore;
While we're quaffing, let 'a have laughing.
Who the devil cares for more?— Lord Byron.
Iwas
on deck early in the morning, impa
tient to be with her again. I did not
notice the rising sun, the swinging of the yacht
or the restless sea. My thoughts were for her
alone. Ever and anon I looked out toward
the direction from whence she usually appear
ed on deck.
Oh, that strange feeling of longing, of lone
liness, of incompleteness, after having expe
rienced a bliss which is still lingering in one's
memory!
I sensed love-thoughts from Viola. I be
came calmer!
Presently music sounded in my ears; visions
came before my eyes; verses of love were
formed in my mind. An inner sense seemed
to unfold in me, awakening my consciousness
to divine inspiration and connecting Viola's
finer vibrations with mine.
I was no longer impatient.
As I kept my mind in a receptive condition,
200
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
two distinct words, as if uttered by a voice
from a distance, came to me in the musical
voice of my beloved: "Love1 Eternal".
The words brought to mind a verse I had
read some years before. Now, I knew it was
coming from the lips of Viola:
'Love, if I love thee, t' is because I need
Not eyes to gaze into; not lips to kiss;
Not a soft break for solace; not the bliss
Of being loved while loving; —this, indeed,
I thank thee that thou giv'st; but I should bleed
'
Down in my heart for loving so amiss
If I had only loved thee, Love for this—
Sure to shake off some day like idle weed
Entangled round my foot upon the shore.
No, if I love thee, Love, it is because
Beauty that is eternal, I adore,
And must pursue
it,
wheresoe'er
it
draws.
And lo!
I
travel on;
I
may not pause;
With thee
I
travel on for evermore.
'
How true these words; how necessary for
me to forget self.
It
was not necessary to
have her close to me in order to converse or to
be happy.
I
became calm and content.
I
love the sun and its invigorating rays, but
the tropical sun was not always .agreeable for
any length of time; soon
I
was obliged to move
to the other side of the yacht.
I
was hardly seated when to my surprise
I
saw the battleship, and while
I
could not see
201
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
her very distinctly I was satisfied she was the
same ship.
"By George!" I thought, "what does she
want?"
I went to the bridge, where I found Burton,
field-glasses to his eyes, scanning the horizon.
Besides the captain, Phil Henderson, and
Maxwell, two of the younger officers, a young
engineer, and the Marconist were there, all in
lively conversation, speculating on the presence
of the warship. From the bridge I could see
many of the crew looking in the same direc
tion.
After morning greetings I remarked:
"It seems we must be prepared for a sur
prise. That ship is not following us from idle
curiosity."
"What are your reasons, doctor?" Burton
asked.
"Apart from the conclusions we have," I
replied, "a friend cast a horary chart before
we left California and we found in it the indi
cations for trouble. Of course, I cannot say
that this battleship will be the cause. Then,
I had a dream which seemed to indicate these
coming events. However, we must look for
the best."
"Strange is life," remarked the first officer,
202
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
thoughtfully. "Why should Mr. Van Hoover
have trials and obstacles in carrying out his
splendid work? I confess I have a presenti
ment that that battleship is going to give us
some trouble."
"Life is not easy, that is true," the captain
replied, seriously, "We meet problems and
we are apt to doubt the final good or the pur
pose of them. However, we must always
keep in mind that obstacles are necessary to
make us stronger and to push us onward to a
higher consciousness. We have joined with
Mr. Van Hoover in his work; we have one
destiny; his cause is our cause. If he does not
need trials for himself, for his soul's develop
ment, perhaps we do, who have joined our
lives with his. If we have a common cause
we must expect to have a common karma."
In the meantime Van Hoover came on the
bridge. Turning his head toward the warship,
he calmly observed:
"The captain of that battleship seems to
like our company very much!"
I stood near the young officers and over
heard their conversation.
"She is still without flag," one of them 'ob
served.
"It might be an Abyssinian warship," an
203
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
other replied, drily.
"No, I rather think she has a civilized white
race on board!" the youngff engineer remarked
sarcastically.
"Then, it must be a Swiss battleship!" the
marconist said.
"If she is not an Abyssinian or a Swiss, it
must belong to some country which has not yet
a flag," Ellis joined in.
"Oh, then she must be a Palestinian!"
"Or the captain of that ship belongs to no
country at all, and, therefore, needs no flag!"
"I tell you, he is the Wandering Jew!"
"Nonsense! Her captain lost his compass
and maps, and took us as guide, hoping to
land somewhere!"
In this way the young men made light of a
probably serious matter.
"Well," said the captain, earnestly, "what
nation on earth would resort to such tactics!
There is no reason for not flying a flag; Amer
ica is on good jterms with all nations!" Then
looking again through his field-glasses: "It
looks as if she were coming nearer."
We looked through our glasses. I could
scarcely see any difference, but the officers
confirmed the captain's remark.
"Let us wait then!" Van Hoover counseled.
204
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I am going to my study to work this morning
but let me know inmediately if anything spec
ial happens."
As he turned to leave I joined him. When
we reached the main corridor we parted and I
went to the aft deck.
XXV
We two
Again shall find each other, and begin
The infinite life of love, a life akin
To angels', —only angels never knew
The ecstacy of blessedness that drew
Us each to each, even in this world of sin.
Yea, find each other! The remotest star
Of all the galaxies would hold in vain
Our souls apart, that have been heretofore
As closely interchangeable as are
One mind and spirit. Oh, joy that aches to pain,
To be together —we two — forevermoref
— Margaret J. Preston.
T had hoped to find Viola on the aft deck
■*■
but I was disappointed. Seating myself
on one of the chairs, I took a booklet from
my pocket and began to read. I had read but
a few pages when I sensed Viola approaching
—then, a soft hand caressed my head and an
electric current penetrated and thrilled me.
When we were seated near each other, Viola
said:
."Oh, I had such a delightful dream! How
happy your love makes m'e!"
205
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"But, my dear!" I interrupted. "Do you
know that your love has made me a new
being?"
She looked at me with her bright eyes, as if
to read truth in my face.
"Oh, my boy!" taking my head between her
hands, fervently kissing me, "truly, love is the
great creator: you look enchanted!"
"You have wrought the miracle, my sweet!"
I said, returning her kisses. "I understand
now that it is not necessary to be together in
our physical bodies to enjoy each other's com
pany. But tell me what verse did you recite in
your dreams last night?"
After reflecting a moment, she said:
"It is a verse that you too must have read.
I read it several times until I could repeat it
by heart and in my dream I recited to you. It
was one of Jelaleddin's. You know, it is my
practice to read something before I go to sleep
as our last thoughts are usually with us when
we enter the astral plane. I am glad to know
that you received my thoughts."
"I inquired" I remarked, "because I wanted
to make sure that we were together in dream
land. Many
■
people do not understand that
the soul, being free from the body, can go out
on the higher planes and remember through
the■ physical brains if thefe'e are only Sensitive
206
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
enough. I also received your beautiful mes
sage this morning and it calmed me, and as
sured me of the truth that we were together
in spirit, if not in body."
"Yes," Viola replied, understanding^, "I
sensed your feelings and thought vibrations. I
know it was your love, but at the same time
you were impatient at not finding me here so
soon. Hence, I sent thoughts of love, calm
ness and patience, reading H. S. Sutton's verse
a few times for your benefit."
"Oh, Viola," I said, in a moment of intense
feeling, "it is very true, but I can not deny
that having you near me, looking at your
sweet, tender eyes, and rosy lips, and hearing
your voice, I seem to become more conscious of
a greater delight and of a change in my whole
being. It is as if my consciousness expands!"
"Of course," Viola responded, leaning with
her beautiful head on my shoulders, "I, too,
like to be with you and feel your arms about
me, but your soul is the living thing which I
have known for many an incarnation before
this; it is only your present body that is new
to me. Deserving healthy and strong bodies,
by which we can make harmonious vibrations
possible, and coming in touch with each other,
latent forces' are awakening in us.
"
s
207
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Only a few people on this earth have our
experience," I replied. "You are a wise and
pretty girl!"
"And you a wise and handsome boy!"
"I am glad I met such a wise girl," I retort
ed, smiling. "How is that for conceit?"
"I am glad to meet an old acquaintance,
dear boy! By the way, how old are you?"
"I have no idea," I replied, looking serious.
"It might be thirty millions or a hundred
million of years! The earth is very old!"
"Do you know," Viola remarked, "some
times I have the vague recollection of a former
life, and since we have met it seems to me I
have been with you in a country very different
from America and much more beauriful; also
a vague recollection of having known you as
a sculptor and posing for you."
"Strange," I replied. "When I first met
you I had the same idea, a feeling of having
met you not a year or two ago but many,
many ages ago!"
"Well," she replied, "memory is a relative
term, of course, for some have highly develop
ed faculties of memory, while others have al
most no memory at all; but in the great truths
of reincarnation, we, of course, know that
there must come a time, as the ag«s go by,
2tf8
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
when development will be sufficient, so that
the whole life will be reflected as in a mirror
in the mind of that perfected soul, and then
he will have become a true Mahatma."
"The great majority do not live the life," I
observed, "that would make them sensitive to
the higher vibrations; they do not realize that
practising what you believe is the royal road
—that knowing without doing is not sufficient!"
There was a moment of silence, each con
templating on this reunion of former lives.
Though I accepted the theory that man is
not always reborn in the same sex in which he
was incarnated in former lives, and that on the
spiritual plane the spirit, the ego, is sexless, I
had only that vagne consciousness of former
ties with Viola; moreover, that this conscious
ness was excited by coming in touch with her.
After a while, I said, thoughtfully:
"Now, when I come to think of
it,
I
am
sure
I
have also met you at the Exposition;
I
did not know you then. No wonder that
statue of Inspiration interested me so much!
No wonder to find
it
on my desk in my cabin!
Since
I
might have been
a
sculptor in
a
former
life
I
know how to appreciate art, as
I
came
under such powerful influence by looking again
and again at that splendid work of art!"
209
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Yes," said Viola enthusiastically, "how
marvelous and true the expression of inspira
tion on that face of marble!"
"Oh, sweet," I replied, with keen apprecia
tion, looking at her admiringly, "and what a
marvellous similarity there is in the expression
of your beautiful face! Indeed, indeed! you
will be a living inspiration to me!"
And with the ardor of my intensified love, I
held her to my breast, kissing her on the face
again and again, and she, feeling the reaction,
said:
"And you—you are giving me an extraor
dinary sensation! How refined your aura is!
How strong your magnetism! A proof that
abstinence from liquor, tobacco and animal
food is the best mode of living!"
Mrs. Van Hoover came toward us smilingly,
calling:
"Are you not coming to breakfast? Or is it
your intention to stay in heaven all the time?"
Viola, embracing and kissing her mother,
replied:
"We like to be in heaven, but we ought to
remember that we have a dear, good mother
on earth, waiting for her happy children!"
Then, taking her mother's arm and mine,
and tripping between us like a happy child,
210
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
she continued:
"Oh, mother, I must present you to my old
friend. Oh, how stupid !—I have forgotten
the name, but anyhow, this is my dear old
friend, Hart!"
The mother, looking at us, laughingly said:
"Then you are an old acquaintance of Doc
tor Hartford?"
"Oh, mother, leave that 'doctor' out; he has
had so many professions in former incarnations
that you would perhaps mix them up and
think that dear Hart, is not the same Sculptor
Hartensius or the Prince of Hartospania!"
So she chatted, laughed, and tripped along.
How changed Viola was! It was hard to real
ize that she was the same Viola of a few days
ago.
I called her mother's attention to
it,
who,
smiling happily, replied:
"Did not the Great Master say, 'Except ye
become as
a
little child, ye cannot enter the
kingdom of heaven'?"
"There
is
a
time for everything," Viola add
ed. "You ought to know that, Mr. Astrologer!
Did not the wise King Solomon say: 'To every
thing there
is
a
season and
a
time to every
purpose under the heaven:
a
time to weep and
a
time to laugh:
a
time to mourn and
a
time
211
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to dance.'? Doctors seem to think it necessary
always to have a serious face. I want my
dear Henry to forget for a while that he is a
doctor and be my Prince of Hartospania. How
do you like the title, dear brother?" addressing
Van Hoover, who now joined us.
Her brother smiled; he, too, seemed to be
under the joyous influence of Viola. Even the
captain looked brighter, and the officers at the
other table glanced at us with smiling faces.
Miss Shetland, however, seemed the only
one who could not conceal her unhappiness,
thinking, no doubt, of her lost love. I wished
I might give her some of our happiness.
Breakfast over, Viola said to me as I was
leaving for my daily round of inspection:
"Now, you must be serious, doctor, for an
hour or so, but after your duties are over I am
to meet, not Doctor Hartford, but my Sweet
heart!"
"All right, my beautiful flower," I replied,
smiling. "I will then meet my Sweet Violet."
212
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXVI
As when'with downcast eyes we muse and brood,
And ebb into a former life, or seem
To lapse far back in some confused dream
To states of mystical similitude;
If one bat speaks or hems or stirs his chair,
Ever the wonder waxeth more and more,
So that we say, "All this has been before,
All this hath been, I know not when or where."
—Tennyson.
TV/TEANWHILE, clouds appeared; the wind
■*■■■■
became stronger. The roaring waves,
pursuing each other in greater haste, increas
ed the swinging of the yacht.
While Mrs. Van Hoover attended to Miss
Shetland, who shortly after lunch became sea
sick, Viola and I were in the crew's saloon,
talking to some of the men.
Samson and Ritter, having finished their
morning work, joined in the conversation. By
and by, we came to the topic of rebirth, and
Ritter had occasion to remark:
"It is so difficult to believe in reincarnation."
"Perhaps it would be helpful," Viola sug
gested, "if you try to think you are not your
body. See yourself as the / Am, using your
body as an instrument."
"That is simple enough," Ritter replied.
"Yes, but we often forget, "Samsonrfcmark
&8
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ed.
"Let me give you an illustration," I said,
looking at Ritter's neat appearance.
'
'A week
ago you received new and clean clothes and
your old, wornout ones are gone. But these
clothes are not you. So we can say that your
inner self, the Permanent Ego, has taken up
its present abode in this, your present body,
and the Ego will throw away this body as an
old garment when you have to leave this phys
ical world."
" 'As a man throweth away old garments,'
"
Viola quoted,
" 'putteth on new, even so the
dweller in the body, having quitted its old mor
talframe, entereth into others which are new.'
"
"It is not your body which incarnates," I
continued, "but your Ego, the I Am. The low
er Self or the Personal Man has not lived before,
but the higher or Impersonal Self, or, rather,
the Permanent Ego, has lived in many incar
nations and will continue to live in many more
hereafter, until Perfection is reached." *
Phil. Henderson, who had joined us in the
meantime, said:
"May I give an illustration? Our engineers
know how to use the complicated machinery of
* Many Egoes who were. incarnated at the beginning of the
Pisces Age, are now or will be reincarnated, at the present Period,
the- beginning of the New, or Aquarian Age.
'554
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
this boat. They can run it according to their
will, based on knowledge. But they have to
be guided by the cap
tain and his officers in
order that our ship
may sail safely and
reach her goal. Now,
let us compare the
body and its wonder
ful, complicated, sys
tem of organs, limbs,
etc., to a boat and its
complicated machin
ery. The engineers,
let us say, are your
Mind, and psychic fac
ulties, or, in total,
your Personality, your
lower self. The cap
tain and his officers,
we compare to your
Individuality or your Higher Self, your higher
Consciousness. Try to remember this."
Ritter nodded his head.
"Now," Phil, continued, "your Personality
has some, but has not yet gained complete
understanding of life. You lack knowledge
and experience. For this reason your person
215
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ality is not fully conscious of the connection
between your lower Self and your Individuali
ty or the I Am within. But your I Am is guid
ing you just the same. The more you are ad
vancing in knowledge and understanding, the
more you are conscious of this connection. Can
you follow me?"
"Yes, I can."
"Now, then, this boat and her machinery is
sometimes at rest when she is at anchor. But
the officers are still there. So the human body
is sometimes at rest, but life is still there. The
officers of your body, so to speak, are conscious
just the same outside of your physical form
during sleep. When the boat and her engines
are not used temporarily, the officers can leave
the boat and go on shore during the time that
their ship is in harbor, So your spirit, your
inner Being, can leave your body during sleep
and go sightseeing on the higher planes of life.
There will come a time when this yacht be
comes too old and wornout and useless as a
vehicle for Mr. Van Hoover's plans. Then the
captain and his crew have to get another ship.
So your body, some day, has to be abandoned
as old and wornout, and you have to find an
other abode or instrument to work for perfec
tion, to continue your voyage of evolution. M-
216
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Ritter. apparently much impressed, was
pondering a moment. Then, looking at us by
turns, inquired:
"Do you not consider mind and spirit as one
and the same; that mind is really the man?"
'
'No, "
Viola replied,
'
'if you were your mind,
you could not change it. But you have lately
done so, as your expressions indicate, and you
have changed your mind often before during
your life, have you not?"
"Yes, that is so."
"Therefore, the real man within you is be
hind and beyond your mind. You are that
I Am, the Thinker, as he is the one who has
cleared out from your mind former ideas and
has acquired new conceptions. Do you under
stand now that the Inner Self is the Thinker,
the Seer, the Knower, the one who makes ex
periences, using your body as a tool?"
"Yes, I do."
"Each of us is at a stage of evolution, dif
ferent from that of others," Henderson said.
"Our captain became captain because his
knowledge and experiences are more than those
of the young fourth officer, and still more than
those of our youngest sailor boy."
"And Mr. Van Hoover has a higher develop
ment than Bullock," Samson o■bserved, '.'the
'217
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
difference is clearly marked in their personal
appearance, their skulls and features, as Doc
tor Hartford can explain."
"A handsome soul deserves a handsome face,
a perfect spirit deserves a perfect body," *
Phil, remarked with a side glance at Viola and
me.
"Do you think,
"
Samson asked, looking
kindly at Ritter, "that
such perfection can be
gained in one life only?
We have explained to
you before, that it is
impossible for the Aus
tralian aborigines to
become as perfectphys-
ically, mentally and
spiritually as Mr. Van
Hoover, in one life."
"It would be an in
justice," Phil, remarked, "to create one man
with animal tendencies and another with high
ly developed qualities such as Mr. Van Hoover's
without giving the former a chance to become
* No great soul or near-perfected Ego (spirit) is reborn in a body•
as that of a criminal or savage though we find sometimes a good
soul with a great intellect born jn an imperfect body. By reas
oning we will know the WHY.
£**
218
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
as advanced as the latter."
"We all have that chance," Samson observ
ed.
"At each incarnation into human form, the
ego of the soul advances," Phil continued; "the
child of a savage is low in the order of spirit
development, and, therefore, a young soul.
Hence, he can only gain a limited amount of
knowledge in a single life and cannot become
equal to an older soul during a given lifetime."
"But why do I not remember my former
lives?" Ritter asked, eagerly. "If I could, I
should be the readier to believe."
"Can you remember all the incidents of your
infancy?" Viola asked. "How many incidents
of your life before your seventh year can you
remember? Tell me!"
Reflecting awhile, Ritter answered:
"Only two."
"How old were you then?"
"The first must have occurred between my
fourth and sixth year, the other when I was
six or seven years old. I cannot remember
them very distinctly, though."
"Well that is a frank confession! Do you
remember all your experiences after your
seventh year?"
"No, I do not."
219
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Now, then, why should you make it a con
dition of accepting reincarnation by saying
that, if you could remember, you would be
able to believe? It is a known fact that the
savages of Australia cannot remember for a
longer time than a few days back and cannot
count to more than to a certain low number.
Well, as they cannot remember as you do, so
we may just as well accept the supposition or
assertion that some do not remember their
former lives while others do. Can you remem
ber how you learned to read?"
"No, I cannot."
"You are not the only one," Viola smiled.
"Yet the fact that you can read proves the
learning. Incidents of your school years have
faded from your memory, yet they have left
traces on your character. What you are now
is the result of those earlier years. The same
is true of your friend Bullock. From this
again we may conclude that but the few can
recollect their former incarnations, others have
a vague memory of
it,
while the great majori
ty
have no recollection at all."
"I can mention
a
few facts,"
I
said, "that
will show the peculiarity of the mind and the
memory.
I
had
a
case of
a
fever patient who
in
his delirium could describe incidents of his
"220
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
infancy and youth, while forgetting them in
normal condition. Another case is my obser
vation of the experiment by a colleague, who
put a girl under a hypnotic or trance state,
the girl describing in this state many events of
her life which were forgotten in her normal
condition. Similar facts are recorded by the
Psychical Research Society. Therefore, Ritter,
The Riddle of the Sphinx
it is not to be expected that your present brain
can remember previous incarnations, because
the brain has not had any; and your I Am,
which has, is not fully conscious on this plane."
"But is it possible to remember past lives?"
Ritter asked.
"It is," I said, with emphasis. "You can
improve your memory so that you can even
recall many of the experiences of youth, as
well as those of yesterday. If you want to
221
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
recall your former lives you have to train your
mentality, perfect your physical body and live
the right life, so that, when your mental,
astral and physical bodies are sufficiently puri
fied, they can receive
impressions from the
subtler planes."
'
'From what Doctor
Hartford has said,"
Viola remarked, "you
can now understand
why some have devel
oped powers to know
subconsciously, and to
receive ideas stored in
the eternal memory of
the Inner Man."
"There is no mystery that may not be un
sealed by him that hath the unbiassed mind
and the opened eye of the Seer," Henderson
quoted.
"Your explanation of what life
is,
is
so dif
ferent from any
I
have ever heard. The
churches, for instance, do not accept the law
of reincarnation," Ritter remarked, becoming
more interested.
"No," Viola replied, "not all the orthodox
denominations, but there are
a
few ministers
222
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
and priests who do."
"The churches believe in special creation,"
Ritter observed. "Is that the right term?
Anyhow, I remember that even the well-known
Democrat Party propagandist, Wilhelm Jen-
nius Brywon, talking of the 'making of man
by separate act in God's image'."
"The first Christians believed in rebirth,
but it was later rejected by the churches, be
cause they did not and do not understand
it,*
and have given dogmas in its place which are
ridiculous and illogical. All thoughtful people,
that
is,
people able to think for themselves,
and not because
a
theologian says
it,
will re
ject special creation."
"Special creation, or as Brywon says, 'by
separate act in God's image,'
is
foolish and
hardly worth discussion," Phil remarked.
"Yet," Ritter replied eagerly, "you might
as well explain to me the difference between
these conceptions and yours. It may give me
some more light and deeper understanding —
if
it
is
not too much trouble, "--looking inquir
ingly at Viola.
"Well, then," Viola began, "the Western
World or rather the Christian creed believes
that God has created and
is
creating men in
his image, be
it
good or bad men, poor or rich,
intelligent or stupid, sane or insane, pure or
223
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
sinful, and by these special creations babies
are! born, blind, dumb, crippled, or insane,
geniuses or savages, all in his image. On this
hypothesis their characters also are specially
created for them by God and imposed on them
without any choice of their own. Then, God's
predestination wills it that some are doomed
for misery, to be lost for ever; others to be
blessed for an everlasting life. This is the
thaching of some churches."
Ritter appeared to be musing, then said
deliberately:
"Is man created in God's image, or is God
created in man's image?"
We smiled at his remark and Viola went on:
"Suppose we here on board were sinking
and had signalled that battleship over there
for assistance, and her captain thought it good
enough to send a boat insufficient for rescuing
but a few; moreover, that that captain made
the condition that only our good Captain Bur
ton, his first officer, and the chief engineer
should be rescued? What would you think of
that captain and of his idea of rescue?"
"Why, I should say the man is crazy or is a
brute!" Ritter ejaculated fiercely.
"Well, then," Viola continued, "suppose
humanity is in need of salvation what would
224
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
you say of a God who uses a way of salvation
by which only a few are saved, the chosen
ones, and the rest condemned forever?"
"Such a God would be as crazy as that cap
tain would be: Inhuman, or less than a man!"
"You may be interested to know that the
theory of some theologians is that only 144,000
out of all the myriads of souls created will be
saved."
After recommending Ritter to read some
books on the topic of reincarnation and kin
dred subjects, we went to the library to get
posted on some topics that came up in our
minds during our discussion.
m
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXVII
Oh, could I tell, ye surely would believe it!
Oh could I only say what I have seen!
How should I tell or how can ye receive it,
How, 'till He bringeth you where I have been?
—T. W. H. Meyers.
A FTER dinner, when Van Hoover, Viola and
■**■
I were strolling on deck, we met Ritter
and the Quartermaster. The former seemed
anxious to talk to us. Seating ourselves on a
bench near by, we invited them to join us.
"Well, Ritter," Van Hoover began, ". what
have you on your mind?"
"I wish, sir, that you would give me some
light on the so-called invisible worlds. Sam
son says there exist all kinds of living beings
which we do not see."
"Yes," Van Hoover replied, "and living
things, as in our physical world. In fact,
there is a duplicate in subtler matter of every
visible form that exists on earth."
"How do we know? It is hard to believe
what we do not see!"
"Yes, but it is possible to come to believing,
or, rather, to knowledge, and have a convic
tion, by study and investigation, by reasoning
and meditation, by observation and experi
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ments, in short, by experiences."
"Have ybu ever seen such invisible beings
or the invisible world?" Ritter inquired.
"Have you ever been in Australia or in Eng-
land?"Van Hooverask
ed.
Ritter smiled, un
der standingly.
"Now, then," Van
Hoover went on, "you
do not deny that there
is a country called
England. Why should
you question the exis
tence of an invisible
world because you or
I haven't seen it?
Have you ever tasted a mangosteen?"
"No, never. What is it?"
"It is a fruit grown in East India. Because
you never tasted that fruit is not a reason to
say that it does not grow. To know conclu
sively, you should go to India, and, if you
want to know the taste, you should eat it. So,
if you want to be convinced of the existence
of an invisible world, or of the invisible beings
you have to do something, that
is,
you have to
cultivate your good qualities, and by living the
227
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
right life, to awaken your inner perceptions.
Then, in due time, you will be able to see and
know for yourself."
"Do these invisible beings come in touch
with this earth?"
"Yes, they do, whether directly or indirect
ly, consciously or unconsciously; but not every
one in the material body is conscious of
it,
or
is
able to understand the connection or com
munication."
"But why should we believe, then?" Ritter
asked.
"A blind man could ask you why he should
believe your statement that there are stars in
the heavens or that the trees have green leaves
in spring and summer and yellow or brown
ones in the autumn and winter, or that snow
is
white. Before
a
blind man can be convinc
ed or be sure of the truth of your statements,
his eyesight must be effectuated. So every
one who wants to see the spiritual world must
have his spiritual eyesight developed. He
must become
a
Seer."
"Can we talk to these invisible beings, or
they to us?"
"Yes, we can,
if
we have and use the right
instruments. Let me ask you: Can we talk
to someone in New York when we are in San
Francisco?"
228
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Yes, we can, by telephone."
"So, I answer you, that we can talk to in
visible beings and they to us when our inner
telephone, so to say, or our higher senses are
used. But these higher senses have to be
awakened, to be developed, by doing the right
things and by living the right life, as I said
before."
"May I add another illustration?" Viola ask
ed. "My friend, can you see the radio vibra
tions?"
"No, I cannot."
"But you accept as a fact that we can re
ceive communication by wireless from a far
distance?"
"Yes, I do."
"You remember our talk on telepathy —that
it is already generally accepted as a reality?
Likewise, some day, the world will know as
an actuality the communication between this
and the invisible world."
"What information do we receive from the
invisible beings?"
"Direct information can only be communi
cated to advanced people, "Van Hoover said,
"who live a pure and unselfish life, and who
are adepts or masters. The information then
is truthful and dependable, but all that comes
229
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
through so-called mediums, clairvoyants, or
psychics, who sell their information or so-called
messages, is doubtful. The great majority of
mediums of this type are not living a pure,
unselfish life, while their bodies and emanations
are not perfect and attuned to the pure spirit
vibrations."
"There are exceptions to this rule," Viola
observed, "some people do get communications
though they may not have attained adeptship."
"Yes," Van Hoover replied, "as there are
exceptions to many other general rules or laws.
"
"Have you ever met such an invisible being
or master, Mr. Van Hoover?"
"Have you ever met the Sultan of Turkey?"
Van Hoover returned, smiling.
"No, I have not, but some have."
Van Hoover replied:
"So, I have not yet met invisible beings,
through my physical or sense-organs, but I trust
some have."
Ritter smiled, and asked:
"Have you ever experienced that you were
in this invisible world?"
"Yes, I have, but it would be difficult to ex
plain to you, as you are not advanced enough
yet to understand, but we may have a chance
to discuss it later, when you have read and have
230
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
pondered more about it. I'll get you a book
which I can recommend for study,"
While Van Hoover went to the library, we
continued our conversation until we had to part.
231
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXVIII
It is by loving and not by being loved that one can come near
est the soul of another; yea, where two love it is the loving of
each other, and not the being loved by each other, that originates
and perfects and ensures their blessedness. —George MacDonald.
THE
boat seemed deserted when I came on
deck, Tuesday morning. For an unac
countable reason I was earlier than the morn
ings before. As there was no sunshine to enjoy,
and the blowing of the wind as well as the
rocking of the yacht were unpleasant outside,
I went to the library and seated myself in a
comfortable chair, intending to read something.
My thoughts wandered, however, centering
around Viola; how we would live and what we
would do together in the future.
As our minds were attuned to each other, I
assumed that she must be able to sense my
thought-vibrations. Then, as I wanted to see
what I could receive from her, I relaxed, put-
ing my mind in a passive condition. Presently
the words came to me:
"The night must come before the dawn; the
grayness of the sky before the sunrise."
Then I understood that Viola was reading
282
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
with the will that I should receive the message.
I waited for another, but none came; then a
light step at my side and my beloved was with
me. Putting my arm around her waist, I said :
"Well, Viola dear, you must have a prophet
ic gift to send me this message. Do you sense
something as a dark night coming in our lives?"
"Well, Henry dear," she replied, calmly,
"you know, life is not as a continuous period
of sunshine. We had beautiful weather till
Sunday night, and see how rough the sea is
now!"
"I do not notice
it,
having you with me!"
She smiled, and said:
'
'We together need not fear the coming trials;
we shall forget the dark clouds
in
our lives.
I
am sure, from now on, we shall grow more
rapidly, —mentally and spiritually, and in this
way be of more use to mankind."
"You will be my inspiration, my comfort,
and my strength! 'In unity
is
strength!' 'Two
can do more than one!'"
"My dear, before we found each other we
were but two halves—imperfect halves. Now
we are one. In time
I
hope we can say
'a
per
fect whole!'"
"You are right, my dear,"
I
replied. "All
in
nature
is
dual, masculine and feminine, posi
233
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
tive and negative. This duality is needed to
make a perfect whole!"
"That is right; and two triangles to make
one perfect, interlaced triangle, signifying equi
librium and harmony."
In Unity is Strength
"Viola," I asked, after a while, "is it not
wonderful how astrology has given us such a
clear understanding regarding ourselves?"
'
'Why, yes,
"
she said, smiling.
'
'In my horo
scope the indications were given that I should
meet a gentleman of such and such a type and
character!"
"Have you met him already?" I asked, think
ing of myself.
234
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Yes, I have."
''Are you going to marry him?" It occurred
to "&at I had not yet asked her to become my
wife.
"No," she said, looking serious.
I thought she was joking, and ask
ed:
"Why not?"
"Because he is not my mate!"
"Not your mate!" I exclaimed.
"No," she replied, "he was seriously in love
with me, but he belonged to the worldly class
of men, a millionaire, a product of modern so
ciety, whose mind was given to the material
things. He thought he could marry me and
leave me free to believe as I likeM But you
know that is not a true marriage; it was not
my ideal."
Then I understood that she referred to an
other man. In reply to my questioning look,
she continued:
"It has relation to astrology. Listen! The
astrologer who cast my horoscope, told me
that nothing would come of that relation.
Later a man would come into my life, a high
er type, and much superior to the first man;
then I should see the difference between the
two types of men. The man who was to come
235
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
into my life later was of an unusual type and
character and poor."
"Did you meet this man?" I asked, trying
not to smile.
"Yes, I did, and I am going to marry him!"
"Notwithstanding he is poor and peculiar?"
"Yes, because I love him. I love the man I
see behind the physical body. I love him be
cause I know he is mine and the other part of
me. For all time in this life we are one!"
"And who is the lucky man?"
"Henry Hartford is his name!"
I could not find words to express my feel
ings. I pressed her to my heart, murmuring:
"My sweetheart, my love, my wife!"
After awhile I asked:
"But why, Viola, dear, why have you not
spoken of your horoscope before?"
"But, Henry, dear, have you ever spoken of
yours?"
"You are right! I have not! But, will you
tell me now?"
"I will do better and will get my horoscope.
And you go and get yours! Then we will
compare and see-~see when we shall quarrel,"
she said, smiling.
When we were back again I compared her
horoscope chart with mine, and even at a
236
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
glance I saw that there were indeed the indi
cations for perfect harmony.
How strong and dignified the positionof the
planet Venus was in her chart. And how
truly the astrologer had delineated this influ
ence in his judgment.
f/\S>Ss\ Furthermore, I not-
[/NAAJ ed that the planet
Mars in her horoscope
was in harmonious
aspect with the planet
Venus in mine, and
the Sun in hers with
the Moon in mine;
-4EB1LX \ there could be left no
•^V\\\ doubt as to the per-
i/\\\ \ feet relationship to
F""T I J J I each other.
*=&ry J/ I called her attention
to this fact, bnt she
smiled at my enthusiasm and said simply:
"Apart from the fact that astrology is a true
science to explain human life and character, it
is also true that high-minded and advanced
people have no need of depending on astrology
to make sure that they are in harmony or be
long to each other. Their higher conscioua
287
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ness will tell them." *
"Yes, that is true," I confirmed, "but it is
useful for those who are not quite advanced
enough, by knowing their own horoscope could
improve their condition. And by comparing
their own with the horoscope of a prospective
marriage or business partner it would avoid
mistakes in marriage or in partnership."
Then, looking over the charts again, I re
marked:
"It is comforting for us to know that we
are in harmony. A marriage should not be
regarded as a friendship alone or as a business
transaction. In mar
riage three things are
to be considered: an
intellectual, a spiritual
and a physical har
mony. If one of the
three qualities is lack
ing, it indicates dis
cordance and is there
fore an imperfect
marriage. If only
spiritual or intellectual harmony is desired
marriage is not quite necessary. Now, let us
* They know intuitively that they have to progress as on step-
frig stone* to higher things.
238
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
see whether we have all three in our case."
Then, studying the planet's positions, I ex
claimed, enthusiastically:
"Aha! Look here! Venus of my horoscope
is on the ascendant of yours and Jupiter * of
yours on the ascendant of mine. This is very
remarkable, Viola! And look at the positions
of the other planets, for instance those in the
ninth house of our horoscopes influencing the
higher mind. And the ruler of your horoscope
is in harmonious aspect with the ruler of mine!
Indeed, no better indications can be found to
give us assurance of happiness and success!"
*
'No wonder that we are so happy and de
lighted in each others' company!" Viola ob
served, pressing herself closer to me. "No
wonder that your vibrations and your magnet
ism seem to invigorate me,to~make me feel as
if I am one with you, a real part of you."
"Yes, my dear, but do not forget that I too
feel your magnetism strongly. It is impossible
to describe it adequately, but it gives me such
a high aspiration and wonderful inspiration!"
There was a moment of quietness. At last
she observed, so tenderly and truly:
"Oh, my dear Henry, how beautiful life is
* Juoiter, the benevolent planet, is ruler of the Zodiacal sign
of Sigittarius, the bowman,
239
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
when love fills the hearts of men! And if be
tween the sexes the real, pure love exists, how
truly it is felt, not only mentally, but physical
ly as well! I comprehend, more and better,
that only true love can give such a delight and
such an exalted feeling!"
A bell sounded, but we were too much ab
sorbed in each other, and only when it rang
for the second time did we think of having
our breakfast.
240
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXIX*
The time will come when all will know
Just why the storms and breezes blow;
The lightning and the wind severe
Are thoughts of erring mortals here.
— Mary E. Beers.
w1
'HEN we came on deck we noticed that a
stiff breeze was now blowing full against
the yacht, causing us to hurry toward the din
ing room. The crests of the waves were white
with foam and from the dark distance came
the glimmer of lightning and the low rumbling
of the thunder.
Miss Judith was not able to join us at break
fast, but was lying on a long rattan chair on
deck, in a corner protected from the wind.
Mrs. Van Hoover did not enjoy her meal as
usual, and the others were trying to forget the
depressing atmosphere by laughing and joking,
seeing the plates and silverware moving to
sndfro on the table.
We finished our meal and went on deck,
seating ourselves near Miss Shetland.
*
In this and following chapters new characters appear, and
new incidents are brought forth, which may offend some "Bru-
golians" who may not be able to appreciate the principles
underlying my story. "A good principle, says Milton, "not
rightly understood, may prove as hurtful as a bad." ,
241
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
We glanced at our undesirable neighbor, the
mysterious and now gloomy looking battleship.
"She is still bent on our company," Hen
derson remarked.
'
'Strange, isn't it?" Mrs. Van Hoover rejoined.
"Where would it arrive," Miss Shetland in
quired, "if we changed our course and she
continued in the present direction?"
"At the South Pole, Miss Shetland," the
Captain responded, smiling.
"At the South Pole! Is there no land, or
islands between? I thought the South Seas
were full of islands!"
"Not in this longitude," Burton replied,
"but plenty west of it."
"You see, Miss Shetland," the first officer
remarked, "that brings in the mystery of that
ship, which we cannot yet solve."
"Why so?"
"Because," the officer replied, there is noth
ing to be gained by navigating the Pacific
Ocean in this neighborhood, except, of course,
for Mr. Van Hoover, for reasons we have often
discussed before."
"Unless," Maxwell remarked, overhearing
the conversation and taking a seat near Miss
Shetland, "unless the Captain of that battle
ship does know Mr. Van Hoover's plans
242
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
and the coming of the 'Esperanto.'"
"But how can they know?"
"By receiving the wireless communication
between the 'Andromeda' and the 'Esperanto',
although it is hardly probable, as the com
munication is in Esperanto."
"Let us not worry," said Van Hoover,
noticing Miss Judith's anxious look.
Our conversation drifted to other topics and
soon we were so absorbed in it that we did
not pay any attention to the warship.
Suddenly the booming of a cannon came
over the ocean.
We jumped up! Instinctively Viola drew
close to me; I put my arm around her. Miss
Judith, pale and trembling, clung to Mrs. Van
Hoover, while the latter grasped her son's arm.
The officers ran to the railing, looking in the
direction of the battleship.
Maxwell came back and tried to calm the
ladies, explaining that there was no reason to
be frightened, the gun shot was nothing but a
demand that we pay attention to its signal.
Van Hoover, putting his arm around his
mother, said:
"There is nothing to fear yet, mother dear,
we must be calm and wait in the most perfect
243
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
confidence that all will turn out right."
We followed the Captain to the bridge, and
here the officer on watch reported that the
battleship was first sailing in an angle of about
twenty degrees from the yacht and began to
slacken her speed after the shot.
She was closer now and parallel to the
yacht. They signalled for us to stop. To
avoid trouble, Captain Burton gave the order.
Presently a boat was lowered from the bat
tleship.
The Captain asked the ladies to go to the
library. He thought it inadvisable to let the
men of the battleship know there were ladies
on board.
"If necessary I will send Doctor Hartford
or one of the officers for you. The doctor will
accompany you to the library.
As soon as the I ladies were in the library, I
looked at Viola. She was calm and showed
no signs of uneasiness. Walking with me to
the door, she pressed my hand and whispered:
"Come back soon, if you can, for Judith's sake;
she is so frightened!"
"I will just as soon as possible!" I replied,
kissing her.
I was just in time to see two officers coming
on deck, followed by two sailors, guns in hand.
244
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
The officers saluted the captain and the oth
ers. The two sailors took their position at the
gangway ladder, waiting for orders.
The captain invited the officers —who evi
dently were Brugolians— into his office.
The elder of the two had the harsh, cruel,
cold, merciless, beady eyes of a shark. His
broad, fleshy, bloated face and coarse sensual
lips, over which drooped a straggly yellow
moustache, were outward symbols of a b»se
animal nature. A thick bull neck joined hii
bullet-like head to a typical Brugolian body.
A broad livid scar roached from the lobe of his
bat-shaped ear down across his purple cheek,
adding further to the repulsivenes of his bes
tial countenance.
He was clearly the superior in rank of the
four men and showed the brute and bully in
every order he issued to his men, and in the
aggressive air assumed toward Captain Burton
and Van Hoover.
The other Brugolian officer was almost the
opposite type in physical build. His long, thin
nose, from the root of which his forehead
sloped backward in a direct line, indicated lit
tle mentality, and the rest of his face was in
keeping with this suggestion! A large gash
below his nose, indicated the mouth of a fish,
245
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
beneath which sloped backward a long narrow
chin. A fighting man in name only—a name
given him, because of his uniform—a typical
scion of a degenerate nobility.
Arriving in the captain's office, and taking
our seats, Burton asked:
"What is your commission, gentlemen?"
"Our commander," began the elder officer
in English with a foreign accent, "sent us
with the commission to propose to you to share
your coal and foodstuff. His Majesty, our
Kosar, will pay you for it!"
Captain Burton looked at Van Hoover, in
quiringly. Then Van Hoover asked:
"How much coal and food do you want?"
"About two hundred tons of coal, ten tons
of flour, and about the same amount of meat;
—wine, beer, and some whiskey."
"I am sorry, "Van Hoover said, "but we can
not sell you so much, as we have not that
quantity,"
"How much have you?" was the rough re
quest.
"Gentlemen," replied Van Hoover, calmly,
"may I call your attention to the fact that you
are on an American ship, sailing under and
protected by the American flag?"
"We know that, sir!" was the scoffing reply.
246
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Well then," Van Hoover replied, looking
the Brugolian straight in the eyes, "understand
beforehand that we do not have to give you
an account of what we have. You will have
to moderate your demands!"
"You seem to forget," said the Brugolian
haughtily, "that the Kosar will pay for your
coal and food."
"We can hardly afford to transfer a part of
our storage, but if your demands are moder
ate, we may sell you some for cash."
"We cannot do with less," was the rough
reply.
"I am sorry," said Van Hoover, indifferently,
"we cannot come to an understanding."
"You seem to forget," said the Brugolian
scoffingly and '
defiantly, "that if you are not
willing to listen to reason we can force you!"
"And you," Burton retorted, indignantly,
"seem to refuse to recognize that we are un
der the protection of the American flag; and
America will ask for an account if you violate
the international laws."
"Necessity knows no law!" was the impu
dent reply.
The other officer said in a piping voice:
"Don't offend Brugolia!"
No attention was paid to this remark. But
247
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to the other officer, Van Hoover said:
"Report to your commandant the result of
your interview. Tell him we know very well
that physically you are the stronger, but we
appeal to his sense of honor to be just to those
who are weaker."
"I will tell our commandant," said the offi
cer rising. "Lieutenant Dar Wymoho will
wait for my return."
As we left the room, Burton said to me in
Esperanto:
"Go quickly, doctor, and ask the ladies to
lock themselves in Mrs. Van Hoover's apart
ments. We do not know what these brutes
intend to do."
"Is the doctor a Spaniard?" I heard the
piping voice inquire.
Finding the ladies still in the library, I told
them what had occurred and requested them
to follow the captain's advice.
"I cannot stay with you," I said. "But we
know that all is for the best."
248
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXX.
One self conquered is better than all other people;
not even a god could change into defeat the vic
tory of a man who has vanquished himself and
always lives under restraint.
— Dharmapada.
a9I returned on deck, I saw Dar Wymoho
**. walking between Van Hoover and the
captain, going aft.
On their return, I joined them.
"It is warm here under the tropical sun,"
the Brugolian observed, wiping his brow. "I
am thirsty!"
'•What do you want to drink?" asked Van
Hoover evenly.
"Let me have some Rhine wine, or Mus
catel!" he suggested, moving his tongue be
tween his lips in expectation.
"We do not have that kind of wine," was
the reply.
"What! A millionaire's yacht and not a
choice of some of the best wines? Bah!" he
said, with a sneer. "Let me have some light
wine then!"
Mr. Van Hoover called a sailor and gave an
order in Esperanto.
249
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"We will wait here," said Van Hoover, go
ing to a corner where a table and some chairs
were placed, used chiefly by the officers and
engineers.
The Brugolian was seemingly in a good
humor, in expectation of the wine. Address
ing Van Hoover familiarly, he said:
"Say, Mr. Van Hoover, you have a Dutch
name. It sounds much like that of the Bru
golian General Dar Snoover. Are you a
Hollander or of Dutch origin, as the multimill
ionaires Vanderhip and Vanderlips? If so,
you ought to be on our side. —Brugolia is a
great country! We will show our enemies
what we can do! Let them wait till after the
war! We are going to win the war! Our
kosar will lead his army to victory! Joho!
My father is Count Dar Wymoho, colonel in
the glorious army of General Dar Clook! Joho."
When he saw the steward coming with a
decanter containing a yellowish liquid and a
few glasses on a tray, he was in the highest
spirits.
"We will drink to the Kosar! Hi ho! Da
Kosar!"
Too impatient to wait longer, he grasped
the first glass the steward filled, and raising
it to his lips, bawled out:
250
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Hi ho, da Kosar! Brugolw, oba tuto!"
With one gulp he half-emptied the glass, be
came aware of the taste, and smacking his
lips, he took another draught, smacking again,
then he said indignantly:
"Is that wine you gave me to drink?"
"Yes," said Van Hoover, coolly, drinking
from his glass.
"It tastes like—like—like anything but
wine!"
"Perhaps you don't like our wine any more
than our manners!" Burton said, sarcastically,
hinting at the Brugolian's rude manners.
"Bah. You Americans seem to delight in
women's drinks!"
"Is this wine not strong enough for you?"
the captain asked.
"Why, man," he yelled, "this is a woman's
drink. Are you all women here?"
"Do you regard women as inferior to men?"
asked Van Hoover, sharply.
"It would seem so," the captain observed,
ironically. "His countrymen have given the
world that knowledge by their treatment of
women and girls in Kajoma!"
"You Americans only talk," was the awk
ward retort, "with your water and lemonade!"
Then, sarcastically:
251
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
'
'No wonder you are too proud to fight ! Indeed,
you spend your time in trying to make others
as weak as yourselves by prohibition."
"Well, my dear Count Dar Wymoho," the
captain said reproacnfully, "If you survive this
war I should advise you to stay away from
America and the Americans ! Our country will
be as dry as the Sahara, and you might be
come less than a woman yourself. However,
you seemed to have a great regard for Ameri
can goods from the way you have been follow
ing us!"
I was afraid the captain would make the
fellow angry. However, he either did not
care or did not comprehend Burtin's meaning.
Then, in mispronouncing his name! Wimaho,
instead of Wymoho: translated into English,
the former means: wormwood, the latter,
weakwood.
We were glad to see the boat returning
from the battleship, and as Dar Wymoho went
to the railing to await its coming, Captain
Burton asked me in Esperanto to deliver a
message to the first officer.
When I returned the boat had arrived. Two
officers and a few more men, all armed, were
coming on board.
252
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Captain," said the Brugolian officer, walk
ing toward the bridge, "I am sent by our
commandant with the commission to ask you
to follow the instructions which I have from
him. If you make no trouble, we will do you
no harm and you may go unmolested. We
regret to be forced to take these measures.
But necessity knows no law! This is wartime
and we cannot be tenderhearted!"
His words were uttered in a moderate tone
and with studied politeness.
As we arrived at the stairs that led to the
bridge, Van Hoover and Captain Burton look
ed at each other, giving the Brugolian officers
the opportunity to go first. Van Hoover said
in Esperanto:
"Make the least possible objections and let
us await developments. We could not have
these trials if there were not some purpose in
them which we do not yet understand."
As soon as we were seated in the captain's
office, the j"""fc, Brugolian officer, who was
addressed as Captain Stonaha by the younger
Brugolians, continued:
"I have orders to stay here on board with
my officers and men to see that the orders of
my commandant are carried out. You know,
of course, that resistance is useless.
"
253
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"In other words," replied Burton indignant
ly, "we are in your power: you violate our
neutrality and—"
"We will give you a chance to get compen
sation for the the trouble we cause you," the
Brugolian interrupted doggedly.
"But are the international laws and treaties
but scraps of paper to you?" Burton remon
strated. "It is hard to believe that you will
not respect our flag. Don't you mind the con
sequences if you are caught?"
"We are not going to get caught!" was the
raucous reply. "We are going far away from
such possibilities!"
"Ah!" Burton said, "you have followed us
three days, waiting to get us far enough from
assistance to make plundering easy!"
"Captain," said the Brugolian, impatiently,
"there is no need for quarreling. From our
point of view, we are right, forced by necessity
and doing as all patriots would do for their
Fatherland. It is necessary to keep our bat
tleship in fighting condition. We must take
the opportunity to get what we want although
we give others trouble. You may think other
wise. That is your right, but we cannot
argue!"
"Tell us what you want!" Burton said.
"Give order, to sail in a southwest course
254
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
until about three and a half degrees to the
west, and about the same to the south. I will
show you the map."
"But that is a dangerous course!" Burton
remarked, amazed.
"We know," was the impudent reply. "You
will have to sail carefully then, that's all."
"What else?" Burton asked, annoyed.
"You will have to arrange berths and food
for my officers and men. One of our officers
will assist your officer on watch until we ar
rive; a sergeant with two men will be on watch
on deck until we are through with you."
"Is that all?" Burton asked, contemptuous
ly, looking at the Brugolian officer with pierc
ing eyes.
"That is all for the present!" Stonaha said,
roughly, looking the sneaking bully he was.
"If we prefer not to obey?"
"Sir!" said the Brugolian sternly and angri
ly, moving impatiently on his chair, "let me
not be obliged to tell you what we would do!
Porakooti," he ejaculated, becoming excited.
"I told you not to compel us to use force!"
"Captain Burton," Van Hoover said calmly,
and looking more at ease than might be ex
pected, "there is no need for argument;
resistance would be folly; we are in their pow
255
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
er. The situation is clear!"
The Brugolian officers looked at one another,
shrugged their shoulders and moved uneasily
in their chairs.
Trying to appear at ease, one took his cig
arette case from his pocket, offering cigarettes
to his comrades, then turning to me, said:
"Have a smoke?"
"Thank you, I do not smoke."
Stonaha rose, putting an end to the un
pleasant situation.
"It is understood then. Let us go," he
said.
The Brugolians left the office, followed by
Captain Burton, Van Hoover and myself.
At the bridge, Stonaha commanded:
"Get ready for the departure."
Stonaha gave an order to Dar Wymoho in
Brugolian. The lieutenant went to the com
panion ladder and called to the men in the
boat, which at once returned to the battle
ship. When the boat was raised the command
was given to start the engines.
The battleship led the way, the yacht fol
lowing.
The two cabins that were used as guest
rooms were put at the disposal of the three
officers, and cabin No. 12 was transformed
256
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
into sleeping apartments for the rest of the
men.
HFi
XXXI
Another hard trial to master,
Another great danger to dare;
Another temptation to lift me,
Another sweet sororw to bear.
—James M. Warnack.
'"pHE wind was whistling and howling thru
-*-
the masts and gathering more dark and
gloomy clouds in the sky, aggravating the in
cessant flashes of lightning and the roar of
thunder, making the surroundings gloomy and
depressing and the battleship to appear more
ghostlike and haunted through the fog and
the black smoke vomited by her funnels.
The Brugolians had brought over from their
ship an atmosphere of depression almost near-
ing despondency.
The cheerless appearance of some of our
crew was an indication that not all had reach
257
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ed the mental and spiritual development of
Van Hoover, who seemed to be unaffected by
this event.
Personally, my thoughts were centered on
the ladies' condition.
At the first opportunity I motioned Van
Hoover aside.
"What about the ladies?" I asked.
"Difficult to answer," he replied, seriously.
"If it were possible," I suggested, "to keep
them out of sight—at least Miss Viola and
Judith— as long as possible, I think it would
be advisable to do so."
"I think you are right," he replied, thought
fully. "There is no doubt but that the impu
dence of the Brugolian officers will lead them
to investigate every part of the yacht. While
we are quite secure in our faith, that is no
reason for going out of our way seeking for
trouble. We know too well the character of
these Brugolians. So far as Captain Stonaha
is concerned, I am sorry to say, his physiog
nomy does not indicate the outward reflection
of an honorable and human soul. What is
your diagnosis?"
"I agree with you," I replied.
"Mother would be more safe than the girls,"
Van Hoover continued.
'
'I think the best way
to arrange matters would be for mother to be
258
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
in her room in case the Brugolians insist on
inspection."
After meditating a moment, he went on.
"Have the girls remove all their clothing
from their rooms, and put them in mother's,
so that all evidence that their rooms are occu
pied will be removed. When we are through
inspecting mother's apartment, leave it to the
girls' cleverness to keep out of sight. They
will know better than we do about that."
"I will find a chance to see the ladies," I re
plied, "and tell them of our arrangements."
I had not long to wait for this opportunity
to inform the ladies of our decision.
"It will be very easy," said Viola. "Our
rooms are so arranged that we can easily keep
out of sight. I am quite confident that no
harm can come to us, protected as we are by
the good influences around us and by our calm
faith, but I agree with you that it is not
necessary to court trouble."
"We will follow your directions, doctor,"
said Mrs. Van Hoover. "I, being an elderly
woman, they will give me little thought."
"If we do have trials, or even death comes
to us, we know that all is for the best," said
Viola.
"What about you, Miss Shetland?" I asked.
259
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I don't know, doctor," she replied, nervous
ly playing with her handkerchief. "I have,
perhaps, not the same confidence as Mrs. Van
Hoover and Viola, but as long as I am with
them I feel more at ease. Nevertheless, the
remembrance is too vivid in my mind of the
brutes I have met and what they can do, and
if the Brugolians can violate laws, murder
women and children, sink passenger sqips,
and—well, we all know what they have done
—naturally, I feel nervous."
"My dear," said Mrs. Van Hoover, "don't
think of that! If you keep your mind on that
possibility alone, it will attract the lower
forces. I have explained to you that thoughts
are things, thoughts have power. Good, help
ful thoughts attract good, helpful forces."
"But why is it then," Miss Judith inquired,
"that you here on board, having such faith in
the power of thought and the protection of
it,
and of higher powers —why have you attract
ed that battleship, and why are those brutes
now on board?"
"My dear girl, we cannot understand all
that happens in life. However, everything
that comes in our way has
a
purpose for good
in the end. Perhaps we need trials to make
us stronger; perhaps we have more lessons to
260
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
learn. Again, the Brugolians may be brought
in contact with us for a purpose."
"Remember, Judith," interrupted Viola,
"what we discussed the other night. If we
knew the whole truth, all the truths, we should
be clairvoyant and should know the purpose
of this event. I am sure I shall gain some
thing from these trials and that other traths
will be revealed to me." *
"A strange way of learning truths," Miss
Judith observed.
"There is no other way but by experience
and sometimes by bad and unpleasant means."
* Any further truths may be revealed to us at any time, at
any place. Truth is universal, if we follow the path, the truth
or truths we already know through religion or science or other
means.
261
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I must leave you now," I said. "The
steward will bring your meals. I will see you
again after dinner and keep you posted on the
movements of the Brugolians."
At lunch the Brugolians criticised the food
and grumbled at the lack of strong drink; at
last accepting our nonalcoholic wine as being
better than nothing.
Although I understood Brugolian I did not
want them to know that fact, thinking that I
might be able to catch something of impor
tance in their conversation. They seemed
suspicious, as they spoke only in whispered
tones when addressing one another. Once
only I caught a few words when Stonaha whis
pered to Dar Wymoho that he had to wait by
the order of the commandant until he arrived.
Was it it in regard to taking action against
us? It seemed it could be nothing else.
Their attitude was arrogant and even boor
ish. Their treatment of the steward caused
Van Hoover to remark:
"It seems that in Brugoliayou are accustom
ed to treat your servants as slaves. That is
not the rule on board this yacht. You are
servants of your Kosar. As you don't want
to be regarded as slaves, you have no right to
regard my men as such!"
262
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
They endeavored to temper their remarks,
but habit was too strong for them.
It was a great relief when lunch was over
and we were free from their company, for at
least a short time.
I called on the ladies and told them all that
had occurred, but assured them I was certain
nothing would happen until we arrived at our
destination.
After lunch, the Brugolians not on duty oc
cupied their time walking the deck, smoking
or playing cards. I saw a sergeant in conver
sation with Ritter; they seemed on a friendly
footing.
So the afternoon passed until dinnertime.
As the Brugolian officers had to take watch
by turns on the bridge during the time they
were on the yacht, it happened that only two
of them were at dinner, going afterwards to
their cabin to get sufficient sleep for their
coming watch. The other Brugolian officer
was on duty on the bridge.
•
The night had passed with intervals of wind
anfl calms, of roaring noises and subdued
sounds, as if nature were undecided about
making further disturbance; but when morn
ing came the weather was worse than on the
day before.
The Brugolians seemed satisfied to know
263
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
that we were following the course indicated,
and made no trouble.
We were sailing much more slowly, the
number of islands now rapidly increasing.
The captain told me that sailing was very dif
ficult and dangerous on account of the many
reefs of coral formation, islets and lagoons.
By eleven o'clock the number of islands had
increased and another signal from the battle
ship was given to go still more slowly.
At the bow our third officer watched the
movements and signs of the battleship. A
boatswain was sounding the depths, although
it was hardly necessary in this sea, on account
of the coral formation, which made this bot
tom very uneven.
264
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
It was an unusual sensation for me when
we neared an island which seemed the largest
of all near by.
What was the purpose in bringing us here?
They seemed to know these islands, although
they were not Brugolian possessions. Many
were small and barren and seemed uninhabit
ed, and they certainly were not inviting to
navigation.
Or was that the reason that we were brought
to this out-of-the-way place? They thought
it safe from any pursuit? It seemed the only
explanation.
265
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXXII
Man, ignorant of the law of force,
Doth send the storm upon its course;
His hatred and his vicious will
Combine as power to strike and kill.
—Mary E. Beers.
TT WAS with great difficulty and late in the
■*■
afternoon when we dropped anchor in a
kind of open bay.
The violent wind and the restless sea still
continued to rock the yacht, notwithstanding
the engines had ceased.
A sign was given from the battleship that
her commandant would visit our yacht.
I went to call Van Hoover, who was with
his mother, and to acquaint him with the
communication. I stopped a few moments af
ter his departure, and was on deck too late to
meet the commandant as he came on deck.
With him had come another officer, six mar
iners and two sergeants.
I wished to be the first in the captain's office,
so went by another stairway. I found the
first officer waiting in front of the room.
The commandant, who was leading the
approaching officers, was anything but the
266
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
picture of a conquering hero.
His undersized corpulent body looked much
like a caricature of a beer guzzler —a beer
barrel with legs and arms.
A great roll of livid fat, with a deep wrinkle
between it and his head, served for a neck.
The head was bare as a billiard ball, above a
scanty fringe of grey hair, from out of which
on either side protruded huge hog-like ears,
the pendant lobes of which doubled upward
where they rested on his meaty cheeks.
Two pig eyes closely hugged the bridge of
his long narrow snout, the point of which was
veined and lumped like a stem of cauliflower.
•
Thick lips, which sagged apart towards the
corners of his mouth, protruded over a broad,
heavy chin.
His forehead was high and narrow, above
which almost straight shaggy eyebrows shad
owed his heavy-lidded eyes. As if to give a
fantastic touch to this immense swine in hu
man form, a fierce Kaiser Wilhelm moustache,
looking like the coarse hairs of a horse-tail,
was as it were, glued on beneath his nose,
with a wide space between.
When they were all seated in the captain's
office, the commandant looked at Van Hoover.
The calm dignity of the handsome, intelligent,
267
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
young man whom he faced seemed to confuse
him. The contrast between them was too
great and apparently made the commandant
feel out of place.
"Mr. Van Hoover and Captain Burton," he
began, trying to put dignity into his voice, "I
am sorry to be compelled to take the measures
that necessity forces upon me. Captain
Stonaha has already explained my proposition.
You will be compensated for the unpleasant
and undesirable situation. We have been
compelled to follow this course because it is
better for you to be close to land, although
an uninhabited island, than to be left in mid-
ocean. Also you are safer from violent
storms. Perhaps you can make yourselves
comfortable until you can get help from
America."
...
... ...;•
He paused as
if
expecting some protest, but
as neither Van Hoover nor Captain Burton
spoke, he continued:
"You will be compensated by Brugolia after
the war, which cannot last much longer. We
expect to finish one of our enemies this year,
then the others will be compelled to ask for
peace, as our submarines will force them to it.
If
you will sign this paper, stating that you
have sold us your coal at
a
price we will agree
268
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
n
upon, I will see that you are paid, also for the
inconveniences we cause you."
But sir," Van Hoover at last remarked
you speak as if it were an ordinary business
transaction; as if there were no moral respon
sibility upon you; as if you were not bound by
the laws of all nations, the international laws,
to respect a neutral ship and a neutral flag.
You have besides violated the unwritten laws
of mankind."
"Captain Stonaha has already told you, it is
war that rules us, and its laws we are follow
ing. It is the law of the fittest and strongest
who shall survive. The laws of war are hard,
and know no weakness, nor tender-hearted
ness; we cannot consider men or women. We
have more use for the coal you possess than
you have. You are not at war, we are: we
have a duty to our country, to our fatherland,
to our Kosar; we must obey."
"You have strange views of life," Van
Hoover remarked seriously. "People who
cannot reason and think for themselves are
bound to be misled by your theories; hence in
justice, hatred, murder, and war are justified
and glorified."
"That is human nature," the commandant
replied, shrugging his shoulders and looking
269
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
at his nails. "If we are attacked we must
defend ourselves. Our theories, as you call
them, are brought into operation by men with
all the desire for fighting."
"They are not our theories," Van Hoover
said with dignity. "We desire to make no
enemies; we wish to treat every one as we
wish to be treated."
"What have your theories brought you?"
the commandant queried sarcastically. "You
are foolish enough to think you could do with
out arms."
"Our theories," Van Hoover returned with
fervor, "are theories you cannot understand,
and therefore, it is useless to talk about them.
But as your Kosar likes to use phrases from
the Bible, let me quote you a couple, based on
the law of cause and effect: 'Whosoever
takes up the sword shall perish by the sword,'
and 'Whatsoever you sow, that shall you also
reap'!"
The Brugolians shrugged their shoulders.
Captan Stonaha, with a malicious look at
Van Hoover, said:
'
'Commandant, allow me to suggest to the
gentleman that 'it is more blessed to give than
to receive'; by giving us coal and food he may
win eternal bliss."
This caused an outburst of laughter from
270
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the Brugolians.
"Mone Horran," the commandant asked his
officers, jeeringly, "do you agree that we ask
Mr. Van Hoover to give us food and coal!"
"We agree!" the Brugolians shouted.
"You heard the demand, Mr. Van Hoover.
What is your answer?"
"There is no need of an answer, as I told
you before. We are apparently in your power
so if you take all we have, we are helpless."
"Be not alarmed; we only borrow it from
you. Allow me to invite you to our ship for
dinner this evening. We still have some
champagne, although it is about the last drop
we possess. So, come over and have some
change and amusement. We will not bother
transferring the coal and food just now."
Dar Wymoho whispered in his superior's ear.
The commandant leaped to his feet, evident
ly astounded, and shouted:
"Himma-porakooty-no-kema! San tie hero,
over son dia bero? Kono vina on kono wiski!"
The officers looked at their commandant,
then at Van Hoover, as though they could
not believe their ears. Indeed, they all look
ed at us as though they thought us bero, in
sane.
They were much excited by this statement
271
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
of Dar Wymoho.
"Unomogi" said one, "on millioneir!"
"Unagoli," another, "anni solujago!"
"Os sist on loga! On berdopta loga! Be-
jamo irriwi bestawi."
Such exclamations were uttered, meaning
that it was impossible for a millionaire not to
have wine! Unbelievable! It was a d—n lie!
Perhaps the wine was hidden!
After the excitement had subsided, the
commandant said to Captain Burton:
"Captain, have the kindness to show me
this beautiful yacht. I have seen many in
Europe, but this one is different; my curiosity
is aroused."
Burton looked at Van Hoover, the latter say
ing in his quiet way:
"I will show you the yacht and Doctor Hart
ford will accompany us."
"Very well," said the commandant, rising,
"We have the time, let us do it now."
We began our round of inspection at the
bridge. When we reached the marconist's
room, where a Brugolian guard was stationed,
Van Hoover said:
"Commandant, you told us that we could
wire for fuel and food from America. But
how can we do so if you prevent us from us
272
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ing our wireless?"
"Have patience, sir, we will allow you to do
so when we are through with you."
Van Hoover made no further remark, but
led the way to the crew's quarters, where
Samson joined us. One of the Brugolian of
ficers remarked that we were over-generous in
the accommodations for the crew.
"Why, this looks like the cabins of a second
class passenger steamer. You must have
money to throw away to spoil your men in this
manner," growled Stonaha.
Van Hoover shrugged his shoulders, re
marking:
"I have heard no complaints from any of my
men. Have you, Samson?"
"No, sir!" was the reply. "In token of our
appreciation any of us would give our lives to
help or defend you in any way."
"But I thought that you Americans were
'too proud to flight
'
!
" Stonaha sneered.
"No, sir!" was the quick retort, "not to
fight for Mr. Van Hoover!"
"Why don't you do
it,
then?"
The Brugolians laughed at what they con
sidered Samson's foolish talk.
"You would not allow us!" Samson retorted
with contempt.
273
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Why not!" Stonaha returned, haughtily
and defiantly.
"Will you allow us to fight man against man
for the liberty of Mr. Van Hoover? Will you
have an honorable fight? Throw away your
sabres and guns and use your hands!"
Stonaha was red with rage.
Van Hoover, who had not interrupted thus
far, now said to the quartermaster:
"My friend, you must not believe that these
officers would fight in that way! Besides, I
will not allow you to fight for me, nor for our
cause. Calmness and confidence are better
than fighting."
"I beg your pardon, sir," said Samson. "I
was too hasty, but the insulting remarks as if
we were cowards instead of defenseless people
made me forget."
"No, friend, we are not defenseless; we
are protected by a higher power. Remember
that!"
The Brugolians were still laughing. If it
had not been for Van Hoover's calmness and
dignity, probably Stonaha would have struck
the quartermaster, as his clenched fist seemed
to indicate.
As we went to the crew's recreation room,
Dar Wymoho pointed to the proverbs and
274
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
paintings, making remarks in Brugolian which
caused great hilarity among them.
One officer was a handsome young man.
While joining in their laughter, he had a
serious, thought
ful look, as tho'
h i s conscience
were speaking to
him. He glanced
from the words:
"Be in tune with
the Infinite, which
is in you, in your
brothers and all
around you," to
the painting with
the words: "Brother, what can I do for you?"
He moved his feet uneasily, his hands tight
ly clenched, as if trying to conceal his feelings.
I wondered what was going on in his mind.
Was it the remembrance of his mother, whose
early teachings were brought before him? God
knows what this young man had been going
through. The temptations and discipline had
not entirely killed out all the refinement and
teachings.
They did not stay long in this place with its
accusing atmosphere, but visited every other
275
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
part of the ship, in search of liquor, opening
boxes, cases, cupboards, even opening bottles
and tasting the contents, sounding every panel,
hoping to find a hidden closet. Many a heavy
piece in the holds had to be brought down and
opened.
It was awfully hot in these holds. The of
ficers continually had to wipe their faces, in
consequence of which a sergeant and a few
mariners were commanded to continue the
search here.
I overheard the officers saying in Brugolian
that they considered the cargo to be of great
value.
Indeed, the Andromeda had a cargo, not
only for a prolonged voyage, but also for Van
Hoover's colonization purpose.
Returning on deck, the Brugolians had to
cool off before continuing their investigation.
Van Hoover had avoided our private apart
ments, hoping the officers would be tired and
overlook them. Deeming it would be in vain,
and while the Brugolians were waiting on
deck, he called me aside and told me to go and
inform the ladies to prepare for the coming
inspection.
I found Mrs. Van Hoover and Viola calm
and determined to make the best of the situa
276
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
tion. Miss Judith was very nervous, although
she tried hard to conceal it.
XXXIII
They judge of things according to their own private appetites
and selfish passions. —Cudworth.
Fox in stealth, wolf in greediness. —Shakespeare.
PRESENTLY
I rejoined Van Hoover and the
* Brugolians. We did not talk muck, but
waited calmly, knowing that the hour had
come that was to be a test of our faith and
patience. I must confess, however, that I did
not have the same composure as Van Hoover,
his mother and sister. I could not help think
ing of Viola and what might happen if she
were discovered.
Truly, love makes us anxious about the lov
ed one.
But again the horary figure that my Hindoo
friend had cast, and my dream be
fore leaving San Francisco, came
back to me. Moreover, so much
had happened in few days since de
claring my love to Viola and finding
hers returned, that during this time I could
277
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
not find occasion to investigate or study the
stars.
But what could we do, anyhow?
We had not yet advanced to the perfection
of an adept or master. We did not know "the
whole truth, all the truths," as Viola said. We
may know the theories concerning occult laws
and be convinced that these powers can be ap
plied, but we could not practise them yet at
our present stage of evolution.
Therefore, we were not quite prepared to
protect ourselves by using the subtler forces,
for lack of knowledge and experience, and had
to take precautions chiefly on the physical
plane.
My inner forces were, at that time, and be-
f
278
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
fore the events which I will relate later, not
quite awakened. I only knew that my horo
scope indicated possibilities, especially in the
latter part of life.
However useful astrology is in the descrip
tion of human character and in solving many
cases of mystery, it often fails in the exact
predictions of coming events, and it can give
only a general outline, so to speak, but it is
impossiple to know every detail, and always
know the exact time when a predicted event
will occur. The details depend so much on
other influences and calculations that one
would need to spend several hours every day
for such work, if ever that could be done.
Notwithstanding, it seemed to me that I
had neglected my duties to Van Hoover and I
said something to that effect to him.
He smiled, and said:
"We will talk about that later. I knew we
should have trials, and perhaps danger to
meet—"
He did not finish his sentence, as theBrugo-
lian commandant came up and said:
"Mr. Van Hoover, you and the doctor have
not honored us by inviting us to your cabins."
"We have been awaiting your pleasure."
"Let us go, then, and finish before dinner."
279
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
We went to the laboratory, thence to my
study and cabin; they looked 'round, but did
not touch anything. I opened closets, draw
ers, and every door that could possibly hide
that for which they were searching.
The young officer spent the time looking at
the statues of "Aspiration" and "Inspiration",
and at the painting of "The Dawn of a New
Age". I noticed a thoughtful and sad expres
sion on his face.
From my apartments we went to those of
280
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Van Hoover, who followed my example by
opening every drawer, closet and door. On
his desk was a statue, "Mother Love." This
represented a mother with a boy leaning on
her lap and looking up in her face with the
happy, trustful look of a child. On her face
shone the mother love.
The young officer stopped, spellbound, look
ing at the statue. He turned his head to con
ceal the tears that I knew came to his eyes.
The atmosphere of this room seemed to ac
cuse them; an unseen power pushed them
away.
In the corridor they stopped a moment, as
if to collect themselves. I hoped that they
had seen enough and would not care to make
further investigation. I even imagined that
the commandant made a movement as if he
were going back on deck, when Dar Wymoho
noticed the doors of the other rooms. He call
ed to Captain Stonaha:
"Kara tie nuro hia!"
Comprehending Dar Wymoho's design, Ston
aha approached his superior, saying:
"Wouldn't you like to see the other cabins,
commandant?"
"Certainly, while we are here we want to
see all and have done with it!"
281
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Those are my mother's apartments, com
mandant," said Van Hoover. "I ask you,
gentlemen, not to disturb her. You certainly
must know that we would not store liquor in
there."
Suspicious looks passed from the command
ant to his officers.
"Why should your mother be disturbed by
our visit? We do not want to harm her!'' rer
plied the commandant, apprehensively.
Captain Stonaha went to the door, as if to
open it. But I stepped in front of him, say
ing:
"One moment, sir! I want to ask you to
respect Mr. Van Hoover's request! If you do
not wish to do so, you can at least be as
gentlemanly as possible!"
The commandant brushed Stonaha aside,
saying.
"I will go in with Doctor Hartford; you all
wait outside!"
I knocked, waited a moment, then, opening
the door, we entered. Mrs. Van Hoover was
just opening the door at the opposite side of
the room, and came forward to meet us. I
introduced her to the commandant, saying:
"Mrs. Van Hoover, the commandant has
asked permission to visit the yacht. We have
282
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
finished our rounds with the exception of your
apartments. Will you allow us to search
them?"
"Certainly, doctor; I have no objections."
She opened drawers, closets, doors, and any
place that liquor could be concealed. I had
told her before of the suspicions of the Bru-
golians that we had liquor secreted, so she
was prepared. She led the way through the
rooms, talking pleasantly to the commandant.
Her calmness seemed to shame him and he
made but little effort to search for hidden
liquor.
As we left, the commandant bowed to Mrs.
Van Hoover, thanking her for her conrtesy.
From Mrs. Van Hoover's apartments we
went to those of the girls, but their rooms ap
peared to be vacant, and after a quick search
we rejoined the waiting officers. Going on
deck, where they seated themselves, the com
mandant, addressing Van Hoover, said:
"Mr. Van Hoover, it seems incredible that
you, a millionaire, should have no liquor on
board, but as our search has been futile, we
must conclude that you have told the truth."
The Brugolians were very chagrined and
their surly faces showed their keen disappoint
ment. The commandant rose, followed by
283
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Dar Wymoho and Stonaha, and they made
their way to the side of the yacht, preparing
to depart for the battleship. The command
ant said:
"Tomorrow we will attend to the transfer-
ing of the goods we require."
So much had occurred during the afternoon
that we were tired and hoped that the Brugo-
lians would be the same, and leave us for the
rest of the evening undisturbed.
That evening dinner was very late. The
Brugolian officers who remained on board were
quiet and gentlemanly.
284
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXXIV.
For the way is often dreary,
And the feet are often weary,
And the heart is very sad.
—Trine.
I know that there are no errors
In the great Eternal Pirn,
And that all things work together
For the final good of man.
—Anonymous.
'"pHE sea had become calmer, but there was
* still a gloomy atmosphere. The lights
from the battleship could be seen, but the
craft made a fantastic appearance with her
somber, intimidating hull and death-forebod
ing guns, overcast by dark, gloomy clouds
during this brooding, ominous night.
After dinner, Captain Burton and I were
strolling on deck. Everywhere were guards.
As I was anxious to inquire about the ladies
we went to Van Hoover's rooms. Hardly were
We seated when suddenly a shot rang out, im
mediately followed by another.
We hurried out and saw the chief engineer
and a few of our sailors speeding toward the
boat deck. Following in the same direction
we arrived to find a crowd had already gath
ered.
285
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
On the deck lay a Brugolian, unconscious,
while Phil and a sailor were trying to assist
him.
Our second officer, the young Brugolian of
ficer, and Viola, were supporting Ritter, whose
blood was oozing from his left breast through
his coat and shirt.
With a quick glance at the surroundings, I
noticed Mrs. Van Hoover and Miss Judith
standing near by, the latter supported by the
third officer. She was pale and trembling,
and on the verge of hysterics. Mrs. Van
Hoover herself seemed not quite calm, altho'
she was soothing the girl.
The other Brugolian officer was talking to a
sergeant and a mariner, who seemed to be ex
plaining the situation.
As I was about to stoop and examine Rit-
ter's wound, the young officer whispered in my
ear:
"The ladies must be removed to safety be
fore my superior officers return."
"What can I do?" I said, while examining
the wound.
"Will you trust me?" he asked.
"Certainly I will. I know I can trust you,
and I thank you from the bottom of my heart
for your sympathy."
286
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I will see what I can do," said the young
man, depressed.
"We know very well," I said, attending to
Hitter's wound, "that it is not possible to hide
them much longer."
"Anyway, try to postpone the meeting with
my superiors as long as you can."
Hitter's wound was not very seriois. I
had stopped the flow of blood.
"Well, Ritter," I said, "keep up your cour
age, mp friend. You are lucky. The bullet
passed between your arm and breast. Just
keep quiet."
"Thank you, doctor," he replied, feebly.
Viola, taking his hand, said softly:
"I have to thank you, my friend. You
tried to help us, with this result. You are a
brave and good friend. I cannot express my
gratitude; words are inadequate."
He smiled, painfully, and said in a low voice,
while his eyes filled with tears:
"It is little enough for the kindness you
people have shown me. I would gladly do
more!"
I ordered Ritter to be taken to his berth.
As he was carried away I glanced at the young
Brugolian officer, who was evidently moved
by this incident, and said:
"It will be best for you not to show your
287
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
sympathy for us."
"I will go now," he replied gloomily, look
ing at Viola with evident admiration and curi
osity.
The Brugolian, who was unconscious, had
recovered. I had ordered a compress put on
his head where he had received the blow.
Gradually the onlookers had returned to
their posts or quarters, with the exception of
the guard, a few officers, the ladies, Van
Hoover, and myself.
"What about the ladies?" inquired Burton.
"There is no use of trying to hide them any
longer, as the report will be made and the
other Brugolian officers will soon be here."
I told them what the young officer had said.
"Very well," said Van Hoover, "let us trust
him!"
As we walked away, one of the Brugolians,
indicating us, made some remark, but the
young officer whispered something in his ear,
whereupon the other nodded approvingly and
laughed. The young officer then came after
us.
When we had left the boat deck, he explain
ed:
"I had to jest, and told him I would lock
the ladies in the cabins to make sure of them.
288
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
You will trust me for that. I cannot guaran
tee the ultimate success of this ruse, so you
must be prepared sooner or later for the com
ing trial."
He led the way to the apartments. I took
the opportunity to press Viola's hand to my
heart. She knew the words that burned on
my lips. I was anxious to know the cause of
the incident and particularly how she and the
other ladies came to be on the boat deck, but
I had no chance at that moment to inquire.
The mariners who were on guard in front of
the corridor entrance, stood aside as their of
ficer approached. He commanded the sergeant
to follow him.
Arriving at the ladies' apartments, the Bru-
golian officer commanded the sergeant to open
the first door, and to take out the key which
was on the inside. With pretended harshness
he inquired:
"Whose cabin is this?"
Captain Burton pushed Miss Judith inside,
saying to her in a low voice:
"Be calm and have confidence that all will
come out right."
"Lock the door!" commanded the officer in
Brugolian.
Next came Mrs. Van Hoover, and she, too,
289
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
was locked in.
At Viola's door he could not refrain from
looking at the girl's wonderful, calm and in
spirational face; then, raising his cap, and
bowing low, he commanded the door to be
locked.
Receiving the keys from the sergeant, he
addressed Burton, still pretending sternness:
"When the ladies' meals are ready, please,
let me know."
Then turning to the sergeant: "I will see
that the steward also brings you something to
eat and drink."
The sergeant saluted and said:
"Zem befoh, horr Lutnant!"
We went to the dining room where Burton
ordered the steward to prepare dinner for the
ladies and also for the guards, and in a low
tone told him to follow the orders of the young
officer.
"Be careful of yourself," Van Hoover said
to the lieutenant. "Do not get into difficulty
for our sake!"
"I am not afraid, and it does not matter
much, anyhow!"
We shook hands with him before he left us.
After the Brugolian had gone, I asked Van
Hoover and Burton whether they could tell me
290
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the cause of the shooting and the presence of
the ladies on the boat deck.
"You remember, of course, the stairs lead
ing from the small cabin in mother's apart
ment up to the boat deck?"
"Yes," I replied, knowing that there was a
kind of closet or small cabin, which I had seen
on my first inspection of the yacht, but this
time it had escaped the attention of the com
mandant and of myself that afternoon.
'
'You
told me that in case of shipwreck, fire or other
danger, one could get away by these stairs."
"You understand, of course, that when the
commandant found no one but mother in her
room, the girls had gone through this closet
up the stairs to the boat deck, hiding them
selves in the small cabin in which these stairs
ended."
"You know also," Burton interrupted, "that
this cabin ( it is rather the landing of the
staircase ) adjoins the officers' quarters."
"Yes, I know, but what occurred at the
time of the shooting?"
"Ellis, who was in his cabin, told me that
he heard a cry coming from the staircase land
ing, then a door flung open. Thereupon an
other cry. He hurried out and saw Ritter
strike a Brugolian who held Miss Shetland by
.1
291
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
the arm. Another Brugolian, who was at a
short distance from the scene, shot at Ritter.
"
"The ladies thought," Van Hoover added,
"that they could get a little fresh air without
being seen."
1W1
XXXV
The heart of the fool is in his tongue; the tongue of the wise is
in his heart. —Turkish Proverb.
Then let your secret thoughts be fair.
They have a vital part, and share
In shaping words and moulding fate;
God's system is so intricate.
—Trine.
ll/HEN we came back on deck, the com-
* »
mandant, Stonaha, and Dar Wymoho,
accompanied by a blond officer, had returned
and were talking with the other Brugolian of
ficers, who were evidently explaining the oc
currence.
We walked to and fro, keeping our eyes on
the Brugolian officers.
After awhile, Stonaha called a sailor, and,
pointing to a couple of baskets, ordered them
taken to the aft deck. I noticed that they
were filled with different kinds of bottles.
The officers walked aft and seated them
292
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
selves around the table. They had apparent
ly chosen this place, as it was cooler here than
in the salon, the sea moreover had calmed
somewhat since dinner.
Soon we heard the uncorking of bottles and
the clinking of glasses. They were celebrat
ing their capture of the yacht.
Presently, the steward appeared, saying the
ladies' meals were ready.
"Tell the young officer," said Van Hoover,
pointing aft, "he is there."
The steward delivered his message.
"I have the honor," I heard the young of
ficer speaking in Brugolian to his superiors,
"of having been appointed turnkey to the
ladies, and their food examiner. So, gentle
men, allow me to attend to my high and
honorable duties."
All laughed at his mocking tone. One called
after him:
"Here, Konart, drink first a glass of wine!
You have been without any! Drink, poor fel
low!"
"My stomach is over-burdened with the
sweetness of the waters of the 'Andromeda,'
Horra Komedant; I do not wish to spoil this
drink now by mixing it with the waters of my
stomach. Keep it till I return."
293
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
A burst of laughter greeted his sally.
"Take a nice bottle of wine or brandy with
you for your prisoners. Perhaps they would
appreciate it after being treated by Van Hoov
er with Andro liquor!"
"That is a good idea of yours! May I try,
Horra Komedant?"
"Go ahead!" was the laughing reply.
In the meantime glasses were emptied and
refilled; the merriment was growing. We
went to the dining room, awaiting the young
officer.
He handed me a bottle, saying:
"Have half of the contents of this bottle
poured into another bottle. I will hide it
somewhere till I need it. The half empty bot
tle must come from the ladies' room. We
must delay as long as possible any meeting of
the half-drunken officers with the ladies. I
think it would be wise for you to^retiretoyour
rooms. My superiors are more excited when
they see you. I think I can protect the ladies
better than you can."
"I think you are right," Van Hoover said.
"If you need us you know where to find us."
"Yes, I know. Can I ring from the apart
ments for the steward?"
"Yes," Burton replied, "in every cabin you
294
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
will find an electric bell button."
Turning to the steward, Konart asked:
"Can you stay here with a few other men?"
"Yes, sir, I can."
"Now listen," the Brugolian said in a low
tone. "If you get a call three times, from
the ladies apartments or salons, come alone;
if four times, send for Mr. Van Hoover and
the doctor. Come immediately to the room
from which comes the ring. Do you under
stand?"
"Yes, sir."
"It would be as well to call the captain if I
ring four times. I am taking these precau
tions in case I am powerless to act alone."
"Success be with you," said Van Hoover, "I
trust no such expedient will be necessary; and
if so, that you will be able to ring the bell."
"I will not fail! In case of extreme neces
sity I will defend you and the ladies from any
personal attack."
We grasped his hands and thanked him for
his bravery.
"That's all right!" he said, moved and turn
ing aside his melancholy eyes. Then forcing
himself to an indifferent attitude, he remarked:
"We must go now! Steward, are you ready?"
He left, followed by the steward, who car
295
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ried the food.
"We can trust him, can we?" Burton asked.
"You feel sure of him?"
"I have confidence in him," said Van
Hoover emphatically.
"I too," I confirmed.
"Then," Burton remarked, "I must tell
Henderson and the others."
"Now," Van Hoover said, "let us follow the
young man's advice, and retire to our cabins.
Let us keep our minds on the one thing for
the present: the safety of the ladies by send
ing thoughts of protection. If we feel like
sleeping, will that we protect the ladies with
our astral bodies and with higher forces. You
know what can be done on the higher planes!"
"I think it best that we do not undress,"
Burton suggested,
With a "Good night" we parted.
296
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXXVI
The heart of the wise is soft as a lotus flower in prosperity,
but in adversity it is as firm as a mountain rock. — Sanscrit Prov
erb.
Comfort one another
With the handclasp close and tender,
With the sweetness love can render,
And the looks of friendly eyes.
—Trine.
T DID not go to my cabin immediately, but
went on deck, leaning over the railing and
glancing over the somber ocean and at the
dark clouds. The moon tried in vain to break
through, effecting only, now and then, gloomy,
greyish shades, bringing forth shadow-like ap
paritions. From the distance there seemed
to appear obscure figures, moving about as if
chasing each other, but coming nearer and
nearer, then disappearing in the opposite di
rection. The whole surface of water anu iky
above hadnnelancholic appearance and a mel
ancholic atmosphere, causing melancholic
thoughts.
It was a dark, dismal night!
I became dismayed and went to my rooms.
I made a few notes and tried to read, but
my mind wandered. I then seated myself in
297
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
an easy chair and went over the events of the
day. Why did these trials come to us? If
not from causes in this life, then it must be
from causes in former incarnations! What
would be the outcome of it all? Why should
Van Hoover be robbed of his necessary coal and
food, causing delay until we could get a new
supply? And perhaps be compelled to live on
this uninhabited island? And then—
"Plenty of coconuts!" I received, clairaud-
lently.
"I know!"
"They make the body strong and healthy!"
"That is true."
"And plenty of fresh air!"
298
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Yes."
"It is a nice vacation for awhile!"
I became calm and more at ease.
"Don't worry! I love you, dear Henry!"
Then I knew it was Viola —a feeling as if
she were standing by my side; as if I felt her
arms around me. My heart reached out to
her, and I whispered:
"Are you here again, my Love,
"Are you here, as coming from above?
"To bring me a message —
'
'A message of Love, of Hope, and of Courage,
"To fill my heart, oh Fairy,
"With joy, and peace, and light:
"Making me feel so happy,
"Making me feel so bright?
"Did you come to inspire
"My soul, my spirit, my all
"With that heavenly fire:
"To make me feel, as if I could
"Overcome obstacles, and—
"Indeed I should
"Conquer the world,
"And lay it at your feet, My Sweet!
"Why do I feel your presence,
"Why do I feel your soul?
"What does recall me
"Your first appearance?
299
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"When we met so strangely
"At some sudden goal?"
This verse came to my mind : a verse I had
written on a former occasion ( neglecting the
customary rules of versification ) , but not
quite finished.
Could Love have been my inspiration?
Love, represented in the one being: Viola?
"Love is powerful, dear Henry!" was the
answer from Viola. "Love can conquer the
world! Love is the key to life!"
"Oh, my dear Love!" I whispered. "My
dear Viola, how I love you!"
Then another voice sounded in my ear:
"Prepare thyself for the coming battle!"
300
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXXVII
And I feel a power uprising,
Like the power of an embryo god;
With a glorious wall it surrounds me,
And lifts me up from the sod,
—Trine.
A man by his own acts goes down and down, or moves up
wards, as the digger of a well, or the builder of a wall. — San
skrit Proverb.
TV/fY tired body gave avay; I relaxed: and I
*. * realized the psychic lethargy that was
stealing over me. I slept; at least it seemed
to me I slept. However, I was conscious that
my physical body was on the chair—and I
walked out to the aft deck.
Though the scene I saw was repulsive, yet
I must describe it as briefly as possible, or lit
tle can be understood of the events that
followed during the same night.
Here was the group of drunken men, shout
ing to one another in thick tongues, laughing
at the stupid remarks of Dar Wymoho, who
looked strangely tall. His pale face and dull
eyes did not improve his appearance. He was
swinging a bottle in one hand and a glass in
the other.
Stonaha was still master of himself, al
301
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
though one could see he had been drinking
heavily, and his sentences were becoming
somewhat muddled.
The commandant was sitting in his chair,
his arms hanging heavily from his sides; with
the vacant far-away look on his face of maud
lin intoxication.
Another officer was on the point of falling
under the table.
Konart was looking on gloomily. He only
sipped his liquor, taking every opportunity to
throw away the contents of his glass, which
was promptly filled by his drunken compan
ions.
"I tell you, I saw three women!" said the
officer, whom they addressed as Mulano.
"What— you—say—?" Dar Wymoho inter
rupted, with a thick tongue, arising and going
to the side of the man.
"Sit where you are!" said the officer. "Mr.
Van Hoover~has-hic —three women-lock and
key-"
"What nonsense you are talkingP'said Stona-
ha roughly; "You cannot see straight!"
"Ha! Ha!" laughed the commandant, "two
—three—women —'t's—a—joke!"
"See here, Konart!" addressing our friend,
"What do you know about it?"
302
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"He is crazy." replied Konare.
"All right! I tell you, there is a handsome
young girl here," insisted Mulano.
The commandant and Stonaha became
thoughtful. I felt trouble brewing.
"Let us—hic—
"
began Dar Wymoho, "drink
to— the beautiful— ladies— invite them— to
drink with us!"
"Now you said something!" Stonaha smiled.
"Ha! Ha!" shouted the commandant. "To
the ladies!" holding his glass up.
'
'Hie— hurrah !" Dar Wymoho joined.
'
'Lesso
wo—hic-—fralo si—hie—mo vina—hie—wima
—hie—on gosa!"
"Again something sensible, Dar Wymoho."
said Stonaha, repeating Dar Wymoho'sjwords.
"Yes, —hie—let us be — merry — with wine,
women and song. Here goes."
Stonaha was about to follow suit, when he
caught sight of Konart, who was looking
gloomily and thoughtfully.
"A--a-r-e —you not with us, Konart, or are
you jealous? Do you want the prisoners all to
yourself?"
This caused an outburst of laughter.
With pretended mirth, Konart took up his
empty glass, which he covered with his hand.
Raising
it,
he said:
303
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Here goes, to the health of my prisoners."
He pretended to drink.
Stonaha whispered in the commandant's ear.
The latter nodded and Stonaha said:
"You are promoted to be the representative
to the beautiful princess and announce the co-
-commandant of His Majesty— the Kosar's
battleship w--ould regard it—agr-greathonor
to visit—her at her palace."
'
'Zam Befo! Horra Kapitan!" Konart said,
giving the military salute.
I followed him to Mrs. Van Hoover's apart
ment. He hesitated a moment, knocked, then,
unlocking the door he entered; and locked the
door after him.
Mrs. Van Hoover was sitting near the table,
a book in her hand. The young man ap
proached a few steps, saying:
"Excuse me for disturbing you. I have
come to warn you." With a sad voice he in
formed her of what had occurred aud of the
officers' request. "It cannot be avoided; the
commandant and the captain would force me
to open the door. Shall I call Mr. Van Hoover,
Captain Burton and the doctor?"
Reflecting a moment, Mrs. Van Hoover an
swered:
"No—do not call Mr. Van Hoover and the
304
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
others yet. It is useless to refuse: I see that.
Tell your commandant we shall be ready to re
ceive them in the salon in fifteen mintes."
Konart hesitated; he wanted to say some
thing.
Mrs. Van Hoover touched his arm and said
sympathetically:
"We thank you so much for the kindness
you have shown. Have no fear. We accept
what comes to us with faith and trust, hoping
for the best."
He left with downcast eyes. I followed.
Approaching the aft deck, he saluted the
commandant, saying:
"Horra commedant, you are invited to the
salon of the Andromeda in fifteen minutes.
The ladies will receive you!"
"Hurrah! Hurrah!" they all shouted.
I went back to Mrs. Van Hoover's apart
ment. Viola and her mother had their arms
around Miss Judith, encouraging the nervous
and excited girl.
Then, I had the feeling as if my eyes were
touched by unseen hands. Now, I could see
the vibrations of fear from Miss Judith's aura;
dark greyish colors, from which angular and
sharp-pointed forms were moving.
In contrast to this, the auras from Mrs. Van
305
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Hoover and Viola were soft, tranquil colors of
yellow, blue, green and violet.
I heard the unlocking of the door. The
young officer entered. Saluting, he said:
"I delivered your message to the command
ant."
"Very well, we are ready."
He stood aside for the ladies to pass, then
locking the door, said to the guard:
"Follow us to the salon and keep guard
there."
As he walked along I saw his aura; the yel
low around his head, though not so brilliant
as Viola's, indicated intelligence; the green,
sympathy, and adaptability; and touches of
deep rose: the beginning of love. I saw his
emotions by the movements of the forms and
clouds of colors. I saw a change beginning
to work. The low, selfish desires were chang
ing into a higher selfishness and higher de
sires.
As he looked at Mrs. Van Hoover's face, I
saw in his mind the image of a beautiful
middle-aged woman. The thoughts
'
'ofv
her
brought tears to his eyes. He turned aside,
but could not avoid the glance which Viola
cast at him. And in that one glance of sym
pathy from those beautiful, soft eyes, his
306
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
whole being seemed to be transformed. A
string of his heart was touched and a respond
ing note vibrated to hers.
A moment of fascination and sympathy, in
termingled with admiration and love, caused
him to forget his surroundings, spellbound as
he was by that electro-magnetic current, which
causes sympathic people to be drawn together.
His meditation was checked by their arrival
at the salon.
The ladies seated themselves opposite the
main door.
As the Brugolian officers entered the room,
the young man said, jestingly:
"I have the honor of announcing the com
mandant of His Majesty's battleship, one of
his All-Highest!"
The commandant advanced, trying to bal
ance himself, bowing low, saying:
"It gives me great pleasure to meet the
ladies!"
Without asking permission, or waiting for
an invitation, he seated himself in a chair,
which he moved closer to the ladies.
Then followed the introduction of the other
officers.
Thereupon the room seemed filled with hor
rible forms of elementals and dreadful appar
307
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
itions of miserable human beings, on whose
faces were pictured every sensual emotion.
The elementals that swarmed around these
men clung to them as vampires, using them as
the means of satisfying their base desires.
Indeed, they were the masters, urging their
victims on to more drink, more gluttony, and
more sensuality.
Then I saw the aura surrounding them.
Around one the red of sensuality and greed
predominated, in another deceit and cunning.
The scarlet on the left of Stonaha's head in
dicated his habits and inclinations to anger,
while the dark colors of angular, sharp, and
serpentine-like forms told of malice, ill-will,
and the desire to injure others.
The yellow around Mulano's head showed
that the man had some intelligence, but too
much brown indicated great selfishness.
How different were those of Konart and
Miss Shetland ; and still more different were
those around Mrs. Van Hoover and Viola.
How dreadful and disgusting was this astral
vision. And to think that the pure souls and
bodies of Mrs. Van Hoover and Viola, and
even of Miss Shetland, had to come in contact
with these beasts.
A feeling of despair came over me. I even
308
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
doubted the wisdom of such a sacrifice. Then
I wished I had the power to drive away the
demons.
As if in answer to my thoughts a Presence
entered the room. Looking around I saw
Van Hoover entering, followed by Burton,
both in their astral body. They came to my
side and gave me their hands.
"Fear not," said Van Hoover. "We have
the power to protect our loved ones."
The Brugolians were becoming more famil
iar, even attempting to take the ladies' hands.
The commandant and Stonaha were seated
opposite Viola, Dar Wymoho opposite Mrs.
Van Hoover, Mulano and the blond officer op
posite Miss Judith. Dar Wymoho was talking
alternately to the ladies, interrupting the con
versation of the other men. At last Stonaha
said in a rough tone:
"Behave yourself and talk to your own
party!"
Mulano leered at Miss Judith and made a
movement as if to put his arm around her.
She jumped to her feet, crying:
"You uncouth villain, can't you respect the
wishes of a lady?"
"Ha, ha, ha!" shouted the commandant
Thereupon, looking at Viola with his evil,
309
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
sesuous eyes, he reached toward her.
She rose, and calmly met his advance, look
ing into his eyes with a glance that seemed to
pierce his very heart; he stopped as though
struck by a current of electricity. He settled
back in his chair.
Stonaha, however, was not so easily rebuff
ed. He waited until the commandant had
seated himself. Then, addressing Viola, he
said:
'
'Do-o-n't be alarmed ! S-s-it do—o-wn !"
She did not notice him; her attention was
attracted to Miss Shetland, who was struggl
ing with Dar Wymoho, Mulano, and the blond
officer. Mulano had her in his arms and was
about to kiss her, when Mrs. Van Hoover,
Viola and Konart went to her rescue.
The officers looked at Konart, wondering.
They had forgotten him, as he had been
watching at the door.
He stepped back, crossing his arms, but said
nothing.
The commandant looked like a whipped
child, cowering in his chair.
Stonaha was enraged. Although half-
drunk, the chivalry of the young officer accus
ed him and his brutality, and also prevented
him from carrying out his intentions, at least
310
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
for the moment. His face purple with rage,
he shouted:
"Lieutenant Konart, go,— go—to your
cabin!"
But the young man did not move.
Viola, in whose bearing her strong, coura
geous, calm character was manifest, approach
ed Stonaha, and looking him sharply in the
eyes, asked:
"Captain Stonaha, in whose service is Lieu
tenant Konart for the present? I understood
that the commandant appointed him as our
guard or chamberlain-in-waiting."
Stonaha could not speak, so astonished was
he at the spirit and courage of this girl.
Looking at the commandant, she asked:
"Commandant, do you give your consent as
an honor for your visit? I appeal to your
honor!"
He was under the influence of her eyes.
Flattered and thinking he could cover his own
foolishness, he said politely:
"Yes, I have given this permission —hie.
Konart can stay here. But he must not inter
fere another time —hie—with our innocent
pleasures. We will not do you any harm—
we just wanted to make you happy —and—
have some diversion and merriment. Ha,—
311
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ha!—come, my girl, be good friends with us—
let us—"
Looking 'round and seeing the half-emptied
bottle on the table he continued:
"Ah! Here is still some wine we—hie! —
have sent you! Let us drink and be merry!"
He poured the wine in glasses, nodded to
Stonaha and presented one to Viola, As she
declined, he said:
"Why, it is good stuff! Come, let us drink
to your health!"
She did not respond. «
"Oh, well, the more for—us—"motiqjingthe
other officers. "Help yourselves— and let us
drink— to the—health of the beauti— ful ladies.
But, Dar Wymoho, you ought not to—hie—
drink more!"
The time passed with foolish talk; notwith
standing the trying situation, Mrs. Van
Hoover and Viola were calm, but Miss Judith
was nervously playing with her handkerchief,
while Mrs. Van Hoover endeavored to calm
her.
The commandant, seeing that nothing could
be gained with Viola, went to Miss Judith,
and Mulano moved near Mrs. Van Hoover.
Stonaha thought he now had the opportun
ity he wished for. He thought Konart would
312
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
not dare to interfere with him. He spoke to
Mulano m Brugolian, who communicated it to
the other officers.
Dar Wymoho and the blond officer walked
to where Konart was standing. I knew their
intention. I felt a great power come to me.
I looked in the direction of Konart and saw
behind him an astral form.
313
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXXVIII
The Seer, if (s)he bat dared, could tell
What raised the storm like breath of hell,
That left behind within its train
A host of wounded and of slain. — Mary E. Beers.
The blackness cannot be removed from charcoal by a hundred
washings. —Sanskrit Proverb.
IT'ONART was gazing with wide open eyes,
"• first at me, then at Van Hoover. I un
derstood his astral sight had been opened.
Thereupon the astral figure, who now became
more distinct to my astral view, moved toward
Viola, her mother, and Miss Judith, putting
his hands protectingly on their heads.
Van Hoover went to his mother's side, Cap
tain Burton to Miss Judith, while I went to
Viola. Then, white astral light surrounded
us.
Before us, the Brugolian officers, with their
coarse, sensual faces, now inflamed by their
base passions and the liquor they had drunk,
were not a pleasant picture.
Following an order gieen by Stonaha, the
blond officer turned down the lights. They
were on the point of grasping the ladies, when
to their amazement they could not move.
314
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Frightened by their inability to move, and
by the darkness, they tried to cry out, but
their tongues refused to utter the words that
were on their lips.
Miss Judith became calmer as she sensed
the power of the magnetic circle formed
around us.
The astral light slowly illuminated the
scene. The Brugolian officers stared at us,
paralyzed with fright. Slowly they could walk
backwards, but their trembling limbs refused
to support them and they sank to the floor.
Their brains were affected by the dilirium
tremens of drunkards.
Konart was standing against the wall,
watching in surprise and bewilderment the
scene before him.
And now, shapes the most horrible that
315
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
could be imagined became visible. Half hu
man, half beast, vile, cruel, bestial. Around
Stonaha, the counterpart of himself gibed and
mocked him, with animal-like head and body,
poking and tantalizing him till the perspira
tion dropped from his face—he was in hell —a
hell of his own making.
Around each officer were forms of their own
making, dancing, gibing and leering.
The officers cowed, trying to cover their
faces with their hands, as if to shut out the
dreadful sight. And to make this scene more
dreadful and horrible, other phantoms appear
ed.
But presently, with the most bloodcurdling
yell, a figure, neither human nor beast, dropt
as though from the ceiling—a horrible, skele
ton-like figure, with animal face, cruel eyes,
flat, broad nose, coarse, thick lips, projecting,
long teeth, a hairy body, and long, monkey
like arms.
It wore a dress, representing the present
century fashion in this way: half of the open
coat was a military uniform, the other half
that of a diplomat. One half of the pants
was black, with blood spots, and the other
half was red with dirty spots; both were deco
rated with medals, indicating the reward for
316
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
bloodshed and dirty intrigues.
Around its ankles were chains of gold, hung
with money, the fingers and toes being cover
ed with diamonds. On a chain of gold which
hung around the neck was a safe; money and
and symbols of money were hung all over it.
Around its stout belly was a belt on which
were battleships, dreadnoughts, and submar
ines, tanks and airplanes, and between these
guns, bombshells, sabres, bayonets, knives and
daggers, on which were pieces of human flesh
with the blood still dripping. On its head it
wore a helmet, the front of which was the
emblem of death, the skull and crossbones.
Now, as I looked at
it,
the background be
came black, then, gradually
it
encompassed
the other figure and slowly filled the room; the
black cloud then assumed the shape of an im
mense beast or gorilla. This immense figure
represented all the base emotions of the hu
man mind.
In one hand he held
a
sabre, dripping with
blood. This
I
took to represent war and blood
shed.
Every article that this monster wore was
stamped with the sign of the cross.
When
it
came up
it
made
a
deafening noise
with the metallic ornaments, articles and
317
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
chains.
Speaking in a harsh, guttural tone, it ad
dressed the Brugolians.
"Kneel before me and worship me! Sell me
your soul, your life, your love and your con
science! Come to me, all who are greedy for
money and bloodthirsty, who can lie, steal and
kill! Who has rage, envy, and wickedness?
Come—come —to me! This is life—blood,
b-1-o-o-d! Money—money—get it! Sell me your
soul! I pay good prices. If you have love in
your hearts for your enemies, I can deliver
you from it! If you have truth, exchange it
for lies. Sell me the truth. I will pay gold
—gold! If you want your neighbor's country
or possessions, come to me. I will help you
to get it. But, sell—your soul—to me! My
articles are genuine. Look at the cross, ha!
ha! Look at the cross! But sell, sell me your
s-o-u-1!"
fa Myriads of phantoms danced around him in
'
an orgy of glee.
How horrible the sight, when the officers
also saw their own victims appearing, sur
rounding each of them with a revengeful, hate
ful, despairing agony, trying to harm the
causers of their misery.
The perspiration on officers' faces, the agony
318
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
they suffered by looking at these visions of
hell, caused compassion in my heart. And I
wished for their sake it would end.
As if in answer to my wish, the vision
faded and all was dark.
••>.. --.,;.;. -f-
319
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XXXIX
I know that each sinful action
As sure as the night brings shade,
Is somewhere, some time punished,
Though the hour be long delayed. —Anonymous.
/^\N awakening I was surprised to find my-
^ self in my study, the astral vision still
vivid in my mind. My first impulse was to go
to the salon. As I opened the door, I met
Van Hoover. We hurried to the salon, not
interfered with by the guard, and switched
on the light, whereupon a terrible scene met
our eyes.
My first thought was for Viola. She was
sitting in her chair with a pale face and closed
eyes. A quick glance showed the other ladies
in the same condition.
I put my right hand on Viola's head, my
left on her neck; the magnetism from my
hands, aided by love, brought her back to con
sciousness. She soon gained her self-control.
We went to Miss Judith, while Van Hoover
ministered to his mother.
320
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Miss Judith regained consciousness, but
was in a nervous, excited state. We left
her in the care of Mrs. Van Hoover, and went
to where the officers were lying unconscious
on the floor.
Our first thought was for Konart. While I
examined him, Van Hoover called the stew
ard. Finding Konart in no serious condition,
I left him to Viola and Van Hoover, while I
went to the other Brugolians, assisted by
Burton, and Henderson who had come in in
the meantime.
The commandant was dead; the others
unconscious; their hearts beating weakly.
I thought it advisable to let the Brugolians
sleep, so mattresses were brought and the
salon was transformed into a hospital.
"I will keep watch," said Konart, who in
the meantime had regained consciousness.
"No—no," I said, "it is necessary that you
have a few hours' more sleep. But we need
you for a few minutes as witness, as your
sergeant and mariners on guard will be
curious about the bringing in of the mat
tresses.,'
As if to confirm my words our first officer
returned from an investigation, and, looking
from Van Hoover to Captain Burton, said:
"The sergeant and mariners are in council.
321
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
They are suspicious at not seeing their officers
for such a long time and seeing the mat
tresses carried to the salon. While they
suppose their officers are drunk, still you can
not tell what they may think."
"Lieutenant Konart," asked Van Hoover,
"would you be able to tell your men that the
officers must not be disturbed until you give
permission?"
"A moment," Burton interrupted, "have
you no one among your men whom you could
trust and whom you could put as guard before
the salon?"
After reflecting a moment, the young officer
replied:
"Perhaps I can trust one of the sergeants
and a mariner. I am not sure of them, how
ever. But they are the best of all. If your
steward will prepare them some cake and
coffee, it will smooth the way. I will attend
to the matter at once."
He returned in a few moments and said:
"I think it is all arranged satisfactorily."
"One thing more, if you please," said Van
Hoover, "will you lead the ladies to their
apartments? Let the guard follow you. Lock
the door of their apartments! And let the
doctor have the key."
322
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
After bidding the ladies good night, and
we were left alone we discussed the occur
rence; not long, however, as we decided it was
better to go to bed. It was nearly morning
and we needed our rest.
Konart returned, handing me the key to
the apartments, saying:
"The ladies are safe and I stationed the
guard as before."
"Very well," I returned, "I will mix you
a drink of herbs and wine. It will soothe you
and enable you to have a refreshing sleep. I
am sure you need it after your trying expe
rience."
I woke next morning with a strange feeling
which I will not try to describe, as only one
who has been through such an occult expe
rience can understand.
Going to the salon to see my patients, I met
Burton and Van Hoover. This time the
guards halted us at the door. With some
difficulty I made them understand that the
illness of their officers was of a serious nature.
They could follow us if they wished to con
vince themselves.
Going to Stonaha's side and feeling his
pulse I found him sound asleep, although his
323
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
dreams seemed troubled. Dar Wymoho and
the blond officer had a light fever, suffering
from the effects of over-drinking. Mulano
and Konart had a high fever; Mulano was
threatened with brain fever. Konart was
awake. Ashe saw the guard inside, he asked:
"Why are you here?"
I interrupted and explained the situation.
"Allow these gentlemen to come and go as
they wish," ordered Konart. "I will take the
responsibility."
Addressing me, he continued:
"I feel awfully bad, doctor, although wak
ing about an hour ago, I felt all right. I had
a good sleep."
"Don't worry, my friend, "I replied. "You
may have to go through a great crisis, but
keep calm and have confidence, and you will
be all right. As soon as your captain is
awake and gives his orders, I will have you
and Mulano removed to your berths. You
both have a high fever and must remain in
bed for a while. Have your sergeant relieved,
so he can watch and help, if necessary. If
you need anything ring for the steward, who
will know where to find me."
324
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XL
The serpent is cruel; a wicked man is more cruel:
a serpent yields to spells and medicine, but by
what can a wicked man be checked? — Sanskrit Proverb.
For evil poisons: malice shafts
Like boomerangs return.
Inflicting wounds that will not heal
While rage and anger burn. —Trine.
IT
WAS late in the afternoon before Stonaha
appeared with Dar Wymoho and the blond
officer. Their faces were pale and they were
much embarrassed. Stonaha with a show of
bravado said:
"Doctor, we must have had an awful night
mare or your yacht is haunted, or, perhaps,
you are sorcerers and witches. I cannot
understand our condition. I have an awful
headache; I am sick. My companions here
also complain of having passed an awful night
and are as weak as your wine. Two others
are lying in the salon with a high fever. We
cannot wake our commandant; he is dead
asleep."
Pausing a moment for breath, he continued:
"The sergeant on guard told us you have
given your services to us. I want you to go
325
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
with us now and examine the commandant's
condition."
I made no objections and said nothing,
although I was sure of my first examination.
As we entered the salon I noticed Konart;
his expression told of the suffering he was
undergoing. I said to Stonaha:
"I am afraid the young man is very ill. It
is best that he and Mulano be removed to
their berths. I will take care of them till
they recover."
I then went to the commandant's side and
examined him carefully. My first examina-
was right. Rising, I said seriously to Sto
naha:
"He is dead. He had heart trouble and
some shock caused his death."
'
'Then you and Mr. Van Hoover are respon
sible for it!" Stonaha shouted in an excited
voice. "It must be witchcraft; you people
are sorcerers! Why, we have all been ill and
the commandant is dead !"
I should have been justifid in asking: "Are
you mad?" Instead, I looked him straight in
the eyes, saying:
"Captain Stonaha, cannot you understand,
after going through the experiences of last
night, that the fault is with yourself? And
326
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
instead of accusing others for the things that
came to you, blame yourself?! You should be
thankful that you have been spared and given
a chance for betterment!"
"Don't preach!" he sneered, "it is not your
business what we have or have not done! It
is all nonsense! It was only a hallucination!
We have had an awful dream, that is true;
but—porakooty! —it was only a dream!"
"You have all had the same dream," I
observed calmly.
"Bah! that is nothing! If it was not a
dream, you people must be hypnotists and
have played a trick on us!"
"If that is so," I replied, ironically, "I
advise you to leave us alone; otherwise you
may be hypnotized again! It is not safe to
play with fire, my dear sir!"
His face paled and while fearful of what
might happen, like all cowards, he returned
boastingly:
"We will see what you can do, when we are
back on the battleship and you receive a
hundred pounder of stomach pills in the hold
of your haunted ship!"
At this moment Van Hoover, Burton, Hen
derson, and Maxwell came toward us. The
appearance of them, calm and self-controlled,
327
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
irritated Stonaha's overwrought delirious con
dition, resulting in worse stupidities.
"Porakooty!" he began, his voice more rau
cous and grating than ever, "playing a trick
on us, eh! You got the best of us, last night,
but—d—d you!"—shaking his fist at Van
Hoover— "I promised you a dose of hundred
pounder pills to cure you of witchery, and
show you that we do not fear the devil him
self! Your craft will make a good target!
We'll show you what it means to play with
us!"
Van Hoover said nothing, but calmly and
pitifully looked at the Brugolian. Burton,
however, was not satisfied without making a
remark and retorted, indignantly:
"You ought to be ashamed! You give
yourself much unnecessary trouble, and us
too! We did not invite you to come here and
act as if you were the owner of the yacht,
and then foolishly blame us for the effects of
your craving for liquor. We have treated you
with patience and forbearance, but believe
me, if it were not for the Higher Laws that
we obey, many of us would have taken advan
tage of the opportunity we had to get rid of
you while you were unconscious. Besides, it
would have been easy work to get rid of your
328
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
guards—a physician would know how to
administer a soporific."
Stonaha's face became deadly pale, red, and
purple by turns. I could read his thoughts:
the fright, the agony, the malice, the fury,
the rancor, the boasting, and the thought of
the blunder he had made: all whirling as a
cyclone through the madman's head, stupe
fying his brain. His lips wanted to say
something, but the words stuck in his throat.
"Let me finish," Burton continued. "We
have endeavored to criticise you but little.
But my patience is at A^end! We know
that your heart is hardened, that no consider
ation of right or wrong is in your mind. We
know very well that you are determined to
violate our neutrality, to rob us. You think
you can do it without being punished! But
as sure as the sun goes down, likewise your
glory and that of your Kosar and your coun
try will go down! No injustice can last for
ever!"
At these words Stonaha and Dar Wymoho
red with rage, made a movement as if to
attack Burton.
Captain Burton, however, stood there as a
king, with a figure erect and majestic bearing,
no trace of fear or uneasiness. He even
329
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
seemed transformed into a being of power!
His eyes, usually open and frank, had now
the keen and penetrating look of the man who
has absolute faith in his Inner Self, who,
being master of himself, knows that he is
master of his circumstances. I knew by
intuition that the powerful Inner Man with
the perfect qualities had enveloped his phys
ical embodiment with a protective aura and
magnetism. I knew that no one could harm
him!
Something like lightning or a current from
Burton's eyes must have struck those of the
Brugolians. I saw on their features their
shame, fear, bewilderment, and the struggle
with their rage and revengefulness.
The young officer, sad and with downcast
eyes, stood back of Stonaha, trying to hide
himself behind the protective shoulders of his
superior.
Van Hoover, Henderson, and Maxwell,
though they had not uttered a word, likewise
made as powerful an impression as Burton,
and a great contrast to the Brugolians. All
that is fair, and pure, and good, and noble
was on the side of the former—all that is
base, and wrong, and sinful, on the side of
Stonaha and Dar Wymoho.
330
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
This struggle without arms or killing,
between the good and evil men, did not last
long, however!
Forcing himself to assume an attitude of
indifference, Stonaha said haughtily:
"You will see whose glory is soon going to
fade away: yours or ours!"
With these words he left, followed by Dar
Wymoho and the other officer. While passing
the guard he said in Brugolian boastingly to
his officers, but loud enough to be overheard
by the guard and me:
"We will show these d—d fools —a hundred
pounder will heal that nonsense and their
witchcraft! They can't play with Brugolia!"
The men on guard looked at one another
wonderingly.
"We need have no fear," remarked Captain
Burton, when I translated the Brugolian's
threatening; "they will not carry out their
intentions as long as their men are on board."
"I have no fear," I replied, "yet, Stonaha
is a very revengeful fellow. The effects of
the liquor, alcohol and the experiences of last
night seem to have brought him to the verge
of madness."
"Of course," Van Hoover remarked, "his
conscience is awakened, and he is trying to
331
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
extinguish the last spark he has. When the
demon King Alcohol gets hold of men, his
grip is not easy to shake off, especially for
such men as these Brugolians!"
332
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XLI
Every day is a fresh beginning
Every morn is the world made new;
You who are weary of sorrow and sinning.
There is a beautiful hope for you,
A hope for me and a hope for you.
All the past things are past and over,
The tasks are done, and the tears are shed.
Yesterday's errors let yesterday cover;
Yesterday '8 wounds, which smarted and bled,
Are healed with the healing which night has shed.
—Trine.
ABOUT
half past three the blond Brugolian
officer returned, bringing reinforcement
and a litter. They went to the salon. I was
anxious for Konart and Mulano, so I followed
the men with the litter.
While the men were busy lifting the com
mandant's body to the litter, the officer said
to me in a low tone:
"Doctor, I am sorry for what has happened.
I hope you, Mr. Van Hoover, and the ladies
will forgive me. Captain Stonaha is half
crazy. He has been swearing and cursing
ever since leaving the yacht. He is issuing
all sorts of foolish commands. I don't know
what is going to happen. When I asked him
about Mulano and Konart he said, gruffly:
333
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
'To hell with them!'"
"Have no fear," I said, "I will take care
of them. I will have two men watch over
them. You can inform your men of our
arrangements."
"Thank you, doctor, I cannot express my
appreciation. It is more than we could expect
after ."
"There is nothing more to be said; let us
forget it!" I replied.
I called the steward, giving orders for the
care of the men and to call me if necessary.
"I am sorry," the officer continued, "to
cause you and your friends inconvenience, as
I have to follow Captain Stonaha's orders.
As he and Dar Wymoho are in an abnormal
condition I had to take command of the
guards here till tomorrow. But I will take
care of your personal liberty as long as I am
in command here. You can trust me for that!
I will order the guard to discontinue the
watch at the ladies' apartments."
Though Stonaha wanted the commandant's
body to be left in the salon until the following
day, Lieutenant Wabor —such was the blond
officer's name—made more satisfactory ar
rangements.
It turned out that Wabor was not a bad
334
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
fellow, though the weakness of his character
rendered him liable to seduction.
The ladies had recovered from their trying
experiences, with the exception of Miss
Shetland, who was still in a nervous condition,
but nothing serious. Owing to Wabor's orders
they were now on the aft deck waiting for
tea. Van Hoover and I joined them.
We had not been seated long when the
blond officer approached, addressing the
ladies:
"Will you excuse me ladies; I have come
from Lieutenant Mulano and Lieutenant
Konart. They regret, not being able to come
in person; they beg your forgiveness for what
has occurred, and—"
"Sir," Mrs. Van Hoover interrupted, "we
bear no malice. Assure your friends there is
nothing to worry about."
As he was leaving Viola stopped him.
"I am sure your friends would have no
objections to our calling on them and extend
ing our goodwill in person."
Following Viola's example, we followed the
officer to where the two Erugolian officers
were lying in the salon.
The ladies shook hands with Mulano and
Konart, assuring them of their friendship.
335
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Ladies," said Mulano, "I cannot thank
you enough for your attitude toward us,
remembering what has passed. I only hope
that some day I may have the opportunity to
show my gratitude!"
"We will forget
it,
friend," said Mrs, Van
Hoover, "I have confidence in you. There
is
always hope for the man who has the desire
for
a
better life."
"With such friends, having faith in us,"
said Konart, "all things are possible!"
They asked some questions relating to the
phenomena they had seen. We explained as
best we could.
As
I
found the condition of my patients
such that
a
removal to their cabin would not
interfere with their convalescence,
Iwent out
to make the necessary arrangements. Coming
back
I
saw that the Brugolians evidently had
been listening with great attention. The
magnetism of Viola's voice seemed to have an
influence for good on them.
"How
I
do wish, Miss Van Hoover," said
Mulano earnestly, "that
I
could accept life as
calmly as you seem to do. As
I
think of the
coming trials, knowing the world as
I
do,
it
is
not easy to go straight and be true to my
conscience. It
is
easy while among you, but
336
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
among the people one meets in the world, it
is another question."
"I know it is not easy for you," replied
Viola sympathetically; "however, it is the
only means of gaining strength and making
you master of yourself. You have been
trained fighting your enemies by gun and
sword. Train yourself now, fighting the
enemy within by the better weapons of love
and truth."
"Yes," added Mrs. Van Hoover, "and if
you remember the scene of last night, that
387
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
should bs another incentive to go the right
way."
Deeming it advisable to put an end to the
conversation, I said:
"If the ladies will excuse us now, Lieuten-
Wabor and I will take the patients to their
cabin."
XLII
To the thoughtful student of human evolution a
most impressive fact is that there is an unending
succession of civilizations,
That civilization which is growing in harmony
with the laws of our being shall live long and ac
complish much, while that which drifts, however
unconsciously, into opposition to those laws, must
perish. —L. W. Rogers.
It is clear that nations must in the future be gov
erned by the same high code of honor that we
demand of individuals. — President Wilson.
WHEN
Wabor and I returned to the aft
deck, we found a few of our officers
with the ladies and Van Hoover.
Wabor was invited to join us at tea.
He was not quite at ease at first, finding
himself among a better class of people than
he was accustomed to. We all tried to make
him feel that we were his friends and that we
could understand the situation in which he
happened to be. To divert his attention we
338
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
endeavored to interest him in different topics,
in which we succeeded.
In the course of our conversation he com
mented:
"Yes, I know what surroundings and edu
cation mean. I see the great difference
between your people and the men on our
ship." Then, looking from one to the other,
specially observing Burton and Van Hoover,
he remarked: "Mentally and physically your
men are superior to any people I have ever
met I have noticed the fine spirit among
your officers and crew. It is indeed a won
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
derful demonstration of fellowship. I have
wondered how you got all these people
together!"
"Well," answered Van Hoover, "I applied
the science of character judgment as learned
through astrology and phrenology."
'
"But, pardon me; if I am not too personal,
may I ask, in what way? Do they apply for
a job, or how do you find them?"
"In answer to my advertisements sent to
different countries, I received many letters.
These letters were subjected to the expert
examination of a graphologist, who was also
a competent astrologer. From these letters
were selected those who seemed to show
promise of those qualities needed to secure
efficiency, goodwill, co-operation, and success.
To them we sent letters requesting full data
of their birth, their education, family connec
tions, and business. From their replies the
ones that seemed the best were chosen."
"Allow me to ask what you had in view by
asking for information regarding the business
of the prospective members for your crew?"
"We have another purpose than merely
getting a crew for the ship. Among the men
now working here on board are many who
will be transferred to a colony, which is in the
340'
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
process of being organized."*
"Is your system of character judgment
always reliable?"
"No, it is not," Van Hoover replied. "Of
course, we are disappointed in some cases,
but astrology offers the largest chance of a
successful understanding of the general char
acter of a person."
"Have you other rules or do you follow
only these examinations?" inquired Wabor.
"Yes, we have; and these rules will be
gladly accepted by any one who believes in
brotherhood and co-operation."
"Brotherhood! Co-operation!" Wabor ex
claimed.
*See last Chapter: L, AFTERWORD.
341
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
There was a pause. Wabor was apparently
too reluctant to say more, though a question
seemed to be burning on his lips. Probably
reading his thoughts, Viola said:
"Don't be afraid to ask questions. Our
colony plan is not a secret, though we do not
advertise it."
Looking at Viola admiringly, Wabor re
marked:
"I am astonished to hear of millionaires
bothering themselves with socialistic schemes
and a beautiful, well educated society girl,
like yourself, taking the same interest. To
be frank, I did not expect such extremity
342
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
though I may have been prepared to find even
millionaires depriving themselves of life's
most agreeable things. Of course, you
awaken in me a growing —a greater—interest
in your plans!" Turning to Van Hoover, he
said: "Allow me, therefore, to ask whether
you intend to comply with the socialistic idea
of having property and money equally divided
among men? If the socialists had power, they
would compel the millionaires to divide with
them."
"Your statement is not quite exact. At
least, in America the right kind of Socialists
would not ask for equal distribution in a
society such as it is now. Though they believe
that capital is a universal possession, to be
owned by the state, and not by individuals,
their endeavor at present is to get the major
ity of votes for bringing about their common
wealth. This state established, then, of
course, millionaires would have to give up
their millions."
"Naturally the millionaires do not want a
socialistic state," Wabor remarked, "but do
you want it?"
"Certainly, if the majority decides for
socialism!"
"But the majority is imperfect," Wabor
343
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
remarked, "how can you be satisfied to be
subjected to their theories, rules, and laws?"
"I must obey the laws of the country," Van
Hoover replied, "otherwise I could not be a
citizen. My karma, or fate, is involved in
that of the American nation; therefore, I am
bound by the limitations existing in that
nation."
As Wabor did not reply, Ellis, our third
officer, inquired:
"Do you think this war will bring about
the socialistic state?"
"No, not immediately," Van Hoover re
plied. "This war is for supremacy, for
keeping up the powers of commercialism,
autocracy and militarism. Militarism may
be defeated when the sword is in the sheath,
but not commercialism and autocracy. They
will continue after the war is over. But they
must be defeated before a new social order
can be established. Revolution will come!
Thrones will fall! Struggle between capital
and labor we must expect!"
After a moment of silence, Wabor asked:
"Do you think the majority of people will
accept your philosophy?"
"No, the world is under the influence of
prevailing customs and conventions."
344
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"And therefore," Wabor observed, "people
claim that when the majority says a thing is
good that it must be good."
"They may claim, but it is not true! Scan
the pages of history and you will soon see.
Never have the majority been the leaders;
always the minority have been the pioneers —
have set the stakes for progress!"
345
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"The real progressive minds of all ages,"
Burton rejoined, "have been crucified by the
orthodox rulers of the people!"
"And alas!" said Mrs. Van Hoover, "we
must not forget that it has not been many
hundred years ago that the orthodox churches
so opposed everything outside of orthodoxy
that they burned people at the stake!"
"It has been the minority," Burton re
marked, "that has made possible the study of
all the occult sciences!"
"It is very seldom," Viola observed, "that
you find really unselfish helpers among the
professors of any school or profession."
"Well," I said, "I must say, the best physi
cians are not found among the majority. The
346
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
majority cannot get away from the conven
tionalities!"
"To be sure," Wabor observed, "the maj
ority of people believe in the majority of
physicians!"
"Yes," I replied, "but it does not follow
that they are the best. In fact, it is quite
the contrary. Some of the best physicians
are very little known."
"The blind are led by the blind," quoted
Ellis.
"The doctors would hate you for such
sentiments," Wabor remarked.
"That would show their limitations," ob
served Burton. "But we are not criticising
one class. We cannot overlook the prevailing
institutions and the system that makes it
possible for such imperfect conditions to
exist!"
"But what can be done to get perfect con
ditions?"
"You may add," Burton suggested, "what
can the majority do to become more perfect?"
"First of all," Van Hoover replied, "they
must cultivate their own will, so that they are
not influenced by the will of others. Make
this resolution: 'I will think and speak the
truth; I will study and investigate for myself.'
347
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
I do not mean school knowledge. I mean to
reason for yourself, not to let your priest or
minister reason for you."
"But that's just it," Ellis remarked; "many
are under the power of their church and are
without will to investigate for themselves."
"Many are frightened by their priests and
ministers," Henderson added; "they are
afraid God will punish them if they do not
follow the Bible or the teaching of the
church."
"But people are learning," Van Hoover
said, "and church power will decline. There
will come a time when the quakes of revolu
tions will not only affect kingdoms and em
348
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
pires, but the very foundations of the churches
will crash like an earthquake causes the crash
of the buildings of a city. And as a new city
was built out of the crushed old city of San
Francisco, so a new state will be built out of
the ruins of the old! Soon Russia will be the
first to fulfill part of this prophecy."
"It is a law of evolution," Burton re
marked, "that changes have come by big
crises, like the present war, for instance."
"The same law exists in the individual
human life," Viola added.
349
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XLIII
The world is my country and to do good
is my religion. —Thomas Paine.
One lump of clay is moulded into vessels of many
forms, one lump of gold is made into ornaments of
many shapes; all cow-milk is one though yielded by
many cows; so the one Supreme soul resides in
many bodies. — Sanskrit Proverb.
CONTINUING
our discourse at dinner, Wa-
bor began,
"I noticed that your men speak Esperanto,
Do you prefer this new language?"
"Yes," replied Van Hoover, "we find it of
great utility as our colonists are selected from
all over the world, and we find it the quickest
way to a common understanding. If we want
a universal brotherhood, we must get rid of
limitations! The quickest route to that is the
speaking of one language! We want to make
our country the whole world!"
"It is a beautiful and simple language,''
Viola remarked, "and easy to learn!"
"I agree with you," Wabor said, "that it
would save time and trouble. In my school
days, for instance, we had to learn French
and English besides Brugolian."
"In Holland and Denmark," Burton ob
350
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
served, "and I believe in many other
countries, French, English, and German are
taught in schools besides the native tongue.
Instead of going to the trouble and expense
of time and money in learning three extra
languages, one universal language would be
sufficient, if in every country the study of a
universal language were adopted."
"And is not one of the reasons for war,"
Mrs. Van Hoover observed, "that the differ
ent races do not understand one another
because they do not understand one another's
language?"
"It certainly is!" Burton confirmed, "as I
often have noticed when visiting the different
countries of the world."
"Your plans are so new to me, Mr. Van
Hoover," Wabor said, "allow me to ask,
whether the members of your colony have
any say in their government?"
"They have, to a certain extent," Van
Hoover replied. "As the majority of people
are not perfect, we must not expect such in
a colony; there is always a minority of more
highly advanced men who have a better
understanding of things; consequently, we
follow the rule that the ablest and wisest
should be at the head of things. But the
861
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
colonists may have their general assembly for
consultation and deliberation; and their pro
positions and requests are presented to a
committee of investigation, which then de
liberates and examines the possibilities and
desirableness of the matter. This committee
is composed of scientists, well versed in
statesmanship, political economics, and educa
tional matters, who are also occultists and
astrologers. When this committee has come
to a decision for accepting the proposition, or
granting the request, its resolution is pre
sented to the executive committee for elabora
tion." - ..
358
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Excuse me," Wabor remarked, "but it
seems to me the colonists have very little say
in the government of their colony !"
"As children do not choose their parents
and their teachers," Van Hoover replied, "so
experts must not be selected by non-experts.
The majority of the colonists are not experts
in the art of governing, nor can it be expected
that they have the same insight into things as
their more experienced, wiser, and older
brothers."
"But who appoints the committee?" Wabor
inquired.
"I do. I have found those who are quali
fied ; and my task is to see to it that the busi
ness of the colony is carried out according to
these principles."
"You have, of course, other functionaries,
besides the members of the committee?"
"Yes, we have!"
"Are they also appointed by you?"
"The commissioner, the chief secretary,
and the general manager are appointed by
me; the other officers by the commissioner.
Every candidate for office or for membership
in the colony is subjected to an examination
by the committee of investigation, and if the
abilities and qualities are satisfactory, the
353
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
candidate is nominated by this committee."
"If your colony is on a large scale, I sup
pose you will have different departments."
"Yes, we have; for instance: the depart
ment of agriculture, the department of indus
tries, that of education, and so forth, each in
charge of a manager."
"I suppose it is your intention to raise all
that is needed for the colony? And do you
also intend to have factories for the making
of other supplies?"
"We intend to transact all the business com
mon to modern civilization. Any over-pro
duction can be easily disposed of."
"Do you intend to pay the workers of this
colony with American money?"
"No," Van Hoover replied, "with our own
paper currency, which represents one hour's
work for each dollar, all of which is legal
tender in any of our colony stores."
"Then," Wabor asked, "do I understand
that the same wages are paid for all kinds
of work?"
"For the present, yes," was the reply. "If
it becomes necessary to work out another sys
tem, we will meet the conditions as they
arise."
"Do you intend to give the colonists the
354
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
same houses and food?"
"No, they are given a choice in the matter;
for those who prefer, there will be the com
munity kitchen and community houses. Our
idea is that eventually the community kitchen
and house will be preferred to separate
homes."
"Need the colonists pay rent for their
houses, rooms, or apartments?"
"Yes, everything has to be paid for, as long
as wages are paid."
"But suppose they save their money and
some day wish to build a palace, would that
not bring back the old conditions of the out
side world?"
"They have a right to live in a palace if
they pay for
it,
but the houses and land can
not be owned by individuals."
"Is
it
possible," Wabor inquired, "that the
socialists' idea of working two or four hours
a
clay can be carried out?"
"Yes,
it
can be done, although being in its
infancy the colony needs six hours work from
every member, and in case of emergency
longer hours, until everything
is
in
a
more
settled condition."
"If
I
understand the situation rightly after
your explanations, you, as head of the colony
355
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
are not bound by the rules you have men
tioned?"
"You must see the difference between my
situation and that of the colonists. The island
is my property. I have lent it to the colonists,
the New Republic, until 1932. Then it will
become the property of the colonists. I can
not yet stay and live on
the island permanently, as
I have other plans to carry
out, mostly of a pioneer
ing nature. However, as
long as I am working and
living on the island, I am
subject to the rules of the
New Republic; moreover,
bound by the law of broth
erhood to do my duty in
connection with my fel
low men. If I want to
visit and live in your coun
try, I have to comply with the laws of that
country."
As Lieutenant Wabor had to attend to his
duties shortly after dinner, Van Hoover,
Viola and I went on deck for a stroll. Look
ing at the island near us my thoughts began
to wander to another island which was to be
our destination. Somehow it did not occur
356
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
to me before, to ask Van Hoover how he
found that island Labora, and why he was
carrying out his plans in such an out-of-the-
way place."
"You see," he explained, "we wanted a
colony where we could establish a republic,
free from interference and where our ideals
could be lived. Knowing that in the South
Sea were many unpopulated islands, we, at
last, found Labora, far away from the other
groups, and I bought it. I also wanted to De
far enough away from the outside world to
prevent any one from coming and criticising.
There are too many people who are all too
anxious to discourage any enterprise intended
for the betterment of the people. You know
as people free themselves from the bondage
of the old order of things, material and relig
ious, obstacles are thrown in their way by
those who will lose by such an undertaking.
For the present I do not wish the world at
large to learn of our enterprise. I want to
work quietly and wait until 1932, in which
year, as you know, the world's disturbances
— the Armageddon — will end. We know
that then the world will be far enough ad
vanced to gradually understand and appreci
ate our attempt."
357
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"You must have spent quite an enormous
amount of money for such a purpose," I re
marked.
"Yes, it is true. In order to do this work on
such a gigantic scale, unlimited money as well
as knowledge and wisdom are necessary!"
Meanwhile Burton had joined us after Mrs.
Van Hoover and Miss Shetland had gone to
their rooms. Our conversation drifted to the
presence of the battleship.
"They may have been in wireless commu
nication with Brugolian agents in the States
and Mexico," Burton remarked; "by their
system of espionage the Brugolians can have
data on all outgoing steamers from all ports."
"Of course," Van Hoover replied, "but it
is also a fact that in time of war wireless com
munication is avoided as much as possible in
order not to attract attention. Even with S.
0. S. it is necessary to be as careful as pos
sible."
"If the Brugolians use such tactics every
where as those of this battleship," remarked
Burton, "it is almost impossible for the U. S.
to keep out of war."
"Wright thinks that the States will join,"
replied Van Hoover; then turning to me,
"What do you think?"
358
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I believe he is right. However, many as
trologers may claim that they know positively,
I myself cannot say that we have enough data
regarding the United States for astrological
calculations to predict from, while the horo
scope of the German Emperor, for instance, so
clearly reveals his fate and that of his coun
try."
XLIV
Give me where to stand, and I will mcve the world.
—Achlmedes.
Within yourself lies the cause of whatever enters
into your life. To come into the lull realization of
your own awakened interior powers, is to be able to
condition your life in exact accord with what you
would have it.—Ralph Waldo Trine.
nn HE Brugolian officer told us that he had
•*-
command over the guard until midnight
;
then, another officer would come from the bat
tleship to take his place until morning. Wabor
had, indeed, taken care that his mariners
should not give us any inconvenience. They
were chiefly guarding outside on the decks.
Hence we could be together in the salon, un
359
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
disturbed, Mrs. Van Hoover, and Viola join
ing us after eight o'clock. Captain Burton,
Henderson, Maxwell, Van Hoover, and I were
to be present.
Viola, who had called us for this meeting,
explained :
"When I was in meditation this afternoon
and relaxing, presently a voice as if coming
from a distance said :
'If you and your friends will gather in the
salon this evening you may expect an an
swer.'
"
We were only together about five minutes
when the wind seemed to cease blowing, and
soon the yacht lay as still as when anchored
in San Francisco Bay.
We were much surprised, as we did not
expect a change in the weather so soon.
We waited another five minutes, when
Viola said:
"The voice asks us to extinguish the lights
and only keep the dim light of button No.
7."
Van Hoover acted accordingly.
We had now only a faint light from the
dome, as on a starless night.
360
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
I had a strange, unusual feeling. I sensed
an unseen something near me. Presently it
seemed as if my eyes were touched and then
I saw at one end of the salon a small light ap
pearing, slowly growing until the entire room
was filled with what I recognized as the astral
light.
Looking at the others I saw in them an un
usual transformation. They looked more than
human : I cannot find a better description. At
the same time I knew what they were think
ing and that they
knew my thoughts;
in fact, that we
could not conceal
anything from one
another. Moreover,
we knew that we
were one harmon
ious group.
Instinctively w e
clasped hands with
one another. There
upon, magnetic cur
rents flowed from
one to the other
and back, strength
ening our group.
361
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Presently our eyes were attracted by a
being, such as I have never seen before. The
form of its head and its features showed the
highest intellect, and expressed the greatest
love and wisdom. The big, beautiful eyes
held me. I was fascinated.
I sensed another presence, and looking to
wards the door, I saw Mr. MacDonald and
Wright entering the room. They were differ
ent than I had known them. Remembering,
however, that we were on the astral plane I
knew that it was not their physical, but rather
their more beautiful astral bodies. Wright
came to my side and gave me his hand. Mac-
Donald went to Van Hoover and gave him his
hand.
Now a light settled so as to form a screen.
From the center of this a table came into
view. On this was a large crystal flower pot
filled with earth.
Our spirit friend now stepped to the pot,
and holding up a seed, placed it in the earth.
Then we saw the working of the seed. The
sun appeared on one side of the screen. Its
magnetic rays going to the seed awoke with
in it the life principle. Clouds formed, mois
ture irrigated the soil. At last a tiny sprout
362
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
reached forth; leaves grew; then a beautiful
flower sprang into life.
Thereupon a worm crept along a branch of
the plant, making a cocoon between the leaves,
and then it buried itself in the cocoon. Then
we saw the transformation of the worm into
another form. Finally, the cocoon opened and
a beautiful butterfly freed itself and flew
forth, settling on the beautiful flower.
Presently, in low measured tones like a
father addressing his children, our friend of
wisdom spoke :
"Inasmuch as you have seen the life prin
ciple in the small seed, in the worm, and in
the butterfly, so man has one life principle
from the source of all life, and has more than
one life to live.
"The worm buries itself by its instinct in
order to be transformed into a beautiful be
ing. How much more ought man be willing
to die — to leave his physical body — continu
ing his life on the higher planes — as the
worm continues its life in the cocoon — till
man is reincarnated again in a better condition
— even as the worm by its transformation into
a butterfly.
"You may prefer the butterfly to the worm;
you may be indifferent to the seed, yet look
363
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ing with delight at the beautiful flower; but
all is one, all life is one.
"Another comparison we can make: the
seed represents your introduction into life;
the plant your growth, the worm your physi
cal life, wrapped about by material desires,
passing into the darkness of the cocoon, which
is the death of the physical, to emerge as the
butterfly. Some of you will emerge from this
life with the awakening of spiritual conscious
ness.
"When a being has reached the stage of
spiritual consciousness which becomes possi
ble through faith, he then enters the realm of
perfect love, and perfect love casteth out fear.
"Many are not conscious of the spiritual
qualities and powers, and these may lie dor
mant in men for many incarnations, but in
time they will be transformed and progress.
"You are qualified now to shake off the
scales from your eyes and see beyond the ma
terial world. You have been preparing for
this ordeal — as the worm in the cocoon leav
ing it as a butterfly.
"And as the butterfly is not bound to the
earth as is the worm, but can fly far up in the
air, so you can leave your bodies and travel
in the worlds beyond this earth, or can see
364
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
with your spiritual eyes while you are con
scious in your physical bodies."
The vision began to fade and only the
voice continued to say:
"Wisdom is the light which lights the way
of every man who comes into the world!"
"I have given unto you a great power. If
you believe: Love and Wisdom are your
weapons!"
Silently we looked at one another and as
though by mutual agreement no word was
s spoken. We went to our cabins to meditate on
the great lesson put before us.
365
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XLV
I hold it as a changeless law,
From which no soul can sway or swerve,
We have that in us which will draw
Whate'er we need cr most deserve. —Trine.
In the degree that we open ourselves to the inflowing
tide of this immanent and transcendent life, do we
make ourselves channels through which the Infinite
Intelligence and Power can work. —Ralph Waldo Trine.
'^ OT long was I in the library the morning
following our occult experience where I
had come to consult some books on the subject
of "astral visions", when Viola entered. Her
features were remarkably expressive of that
mystic light and inspiration which I had per
ceived before. I could not but notice the won
derful similarity in the expression of her face
and that of the statue on my desk.
"Viola, my dear, as I look at your beautiful
face, it brings to my memory that I have seen
you before. I cannot recall where, but surely
we have met."
366
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Well, Henry dear," Viola replied with her
loveliest smile, her wonderful eyes looking at
me, "can't you remember that you saw me at
the Exposition, in the Italian sculpture sec
tion? But I think you were too absorbed in
looking at a beautiful face!"
"A beautiful face? Then it must have been
yours!" I retorted.
"No, you are not a good guesser. You were
looking at the beautiful statue of 'Inspira
tion". You were lost in admiration as again
and again you returned to that beautiful work
of art. You must have felt my thoughts as
you turned your head in my direction. As I
noted the look on your face and your admira
tion of 'Inspiration', I was drawn to you. I
do not suppose you would remember me, as
you only saw my face for a second as I quick
ly turned away."
"Oh dear Inspiration of mine!" I replied,
fervently, "I now have the living counter
part of that statue ! One that can understand
and love ! How beautiful is life !" — I could
not refrain from taking her in my arms and
kissing her. — "Why did you not tell me
sooner, my love?"
"Oh, well, you must not get all the surprises
367
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
at one time! I must reserve some for bye-
and-bye!"
"Did you recognize me when I came on
board?" I asked.
"Yes, I did ; and it was hard for me to keep
quiet and not tell you when you asked me if
we had not met before. More I may confess
now: I have loved you consciously from the
first moment you stepped aboard. Perhaps I
loved you unconsciously from the moment I
saw you before the statue. In my heart I
wished I could be your inspiration. I longed
to be that living inspiration that I felt you
needed. I bought that statue and as if I knew
subconsciously that Doctor Hartford was the
same as the, then unknown, admirer of art, I
put the statue with the other one Mother
bought — 'Aspiration' — on your desk. They
are yours, and I am yours ! I am happy that
my wish is fulfilled !"
Pausing a moment and caressing my hand,
she continued:
"My love has grown stronger by closer ac
quaintance with you and learning your char
acter. Our love grew until the evening when
our hearts reached out to each other, and we
knew our love was realized and we were one."
"And then it was inspiration that drew us
368
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
together, my love," I laughed, "a mutual de
sire, a longing for the one that could make our
lives complete."
"Furthermore," Viola interrupted, "I may
gay, that a man who has that expression on his
face when he looks at such statues of 'Inspira
tion' and 'Aspiration' for such a long time and
comes back to them again and again, that he
is aspiring to Higher Things and must be a
good man!"
369
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XLVI
When man awakens, he'll never dare
To send a thought out in the air;
A fellow creature here to kill,
To satihfy a vicious will.
— Mary E. Beers.
The brute-man of the planet, he will pass.
Blown out like forms of vapor on a glass;
And from this quaking pulp of life will rise
The Superman, child of the higher skies —
—Edwin Markham.
xtt rHEN I came on deck after breakfast to
* * go to my patients I noticed that the wind
was very boisterous and rocking the yacht as
it had done the preceding days.
Mulano and Konart were still in a feverish
condition. The tropical climate, the bad
weather, the mode of living aboard the battle
ship, had caused a critical state in their con
dition. They complained about weakness in
their backs; from this and other symptoms I
concluded that malaria had set in.
Promising them that the ladies would read
for them, I went to Ritter's cabin.
One of the Brugolian sergeants was with
him, evidently on good terms. Ritter was
much better.
The quartermaster told me afterwards :
370
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"The little attentions which the sergeant
shows to Ritter seem to indicate that he wishes
to make amends for his comrade who shot
Ritter."
Hardly was I back in my office to make
some notes, when I was called by Ellis to meet
the Brugolian officers who had returned from
the battleship.
The mariners were already carrying the
commandant's body to the boat, when I joined
Van Hoover and Burton.
Stonaha was on deck, shouting and swear
ing like a madman. He wanted our crew to
come on deck to parade for him and his of
ficers. To avoid trouble, Captain Burton gave
the orders for review. Stonaha also had his
men assembled. He walked along the line of
our men a few times, then stopping about the
center of the line, shouted in a harsh voice :
"We are going to unload the coal and food.
If you make objections, or are lazy, my men
are ready with guns! Understand?"
Turning to the quartermaster with an evil
look in his eyes, remembering the occurrence
of two days before, he continued :
"And you take care the orders are followed,
otherwise you will be the first to get one of
my stomach pills!"
371
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Samson looked from Captain Burton to
Van Hoover inquiringly.
"Follow orders," said the captain calmly.
The battleship made preparations to re
ceive the cargo ; the holds were opened.
Stonaha, still under the influence of liquor,
was swearing and flying into fits of temper,
threatening to use his gun at every opportun
ity.
In the midst of his "himma-pora-kooty-no-
kema" a young officer, who had come over
from the battleship in a launch, rushed to
Stonaha's side. Trembling and pale, he
thrust a paper into his superior's hand.
Reading the paper, Stonaha looked inquir
ingly at the young man, who pointed in the
direction of the North-East, then in the air.
All eyes followed the direction in which he
was pointing. High above us soared an air
plane. In the North-East a submarine was
visible.
The sight of the airplane and the submarine
completely unnerved Stonaha. With tremb
ling limbs he ran to the companion ladder,
calling on his men to follow him. They
needed no second bidding.
In their hurry, the boat and the launch
372
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
were started before the last two men were on
board. One was just going to put his foot on
the edge of the boat, when she moved away ;
and instead of stepping on board, he landed
in the sea. However, his hands could grasp
the edge of the boat, enabling him to climb in.
The other man was not so lucky. He wanted
to jump in, but, by the sudden movement of
the boat, fell into the sea and had to swim a
stroke or two before he was on board.
It was a strange sight : the dead command
ant in the bottom of the (
boat, the new com
mandant with his gloomy face, Dar Wymoho,
pale and terror-stricken. Suddenly I remem
bered Konart and Mulano; in the excitement
they had been forgotten !
t
Then, thinking of Viola and the ladies, I
ran to their apartments and called them
to come on deck to enjoy our freedom. I
hurried to Konart and Mulano and finding
them asleep, I left my directions and went on
deck, anxious to be again with Viola and the
others.
I found the ladies, Captain Burton, Van
Hoover and the officers not on duty, on the
bridge, watching the movements of the air
plane and the submarine.
As soon as the Brugolians reached the bat
373
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
tleship, the engines were started and she was
now moving. There was evidently, great ex
citement on board : the officers keenly observ
ing the movements of the airplane and the
submarine. Some scanned the ocean as if
expecting a fleet. The yacht was quite for
gotten.
The battleship was soon out of the bay,
evidently with no thought of the sick officers
left on the "Andromeda".
Captain Burton ordered the marconist to
take up his duties again.
Viola, her brother, and I followed. On try
ing the door they found it locked. Receiving
no reply to their repeated knocks, they opened
a small window and looked in. Van Hoover
called :
"Why don't you open the door? Why are
you still here? Your officers and ship are
gone !"
The door opened and a sergeant came out,
with gun in his hand. He looked in the direc
tion where the battleship had been lying. His
gaze swept the bay ; then a look of relief came
over his face. Without a word he handed his
gun to. Van Hoover.
"You can keep your gun ; we don't want it!"
said Van Hoover.
374
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
As he looked at the calm and kindly face
of Van Hoover he hesitated, then walking to
the railing, threw his gun overboard.
Turning to Van Hoover, he said in broken
English :
"I must beg your pardon for being here, but
if you don't want me, leave me on the island."
Van Hoover looked at the captain, then
turning to the first officer, said:
"Take care of him, Phil!"
Our marconist went to his office, hoping to
be able to send a wireless.
We looked over the ocean. The battleship
was far away and nothing was seen of the
submarine.
The order had been given to raise anchor;
we were ready to leave.
A "Hurrah !" went up from all on board as
the yacht slowly moved out. After leaving the
bay we sailed in a South-South-West course.
The sun, now bursting through the clouds,
gave a brighter appearance to the islands and
the whole surroundings.
375
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XLVII
I know, as my life grows older
And mine eyes have clearer sight.
That under each rank wrong somewhere
There lies the root of right;
That each sorrow has its purpose.
By the sorrowing oft unguessed;
That, as sure as the sun brings morning.
Whatever is, is best.—Anonymous.
'"PHE following day was one of the most
beautiful we had enjoyed thus far. The
sea was calm; the air invigorating. The
islands we passed, with the cocoanut palms
and other trees, made a pleasing picture.
Intending to take my morning stroll, and
going to the bow, I saw the first officer and
the quartermaster in conversation with the
Brugolian sergeant and two Burgolian mar
iners.
I wondered what they were doing there.
As I came nearer, the sergeant was saying :
"It was indeed a miserable life on the bat
tleship. I cannot blame these men for doing
as I have done."
"We will not judge you," said Henderson ;
"it is for the captain and Mr. Van Hoover to
say what shall be done.
Leaving the men in care of Samson, the of
376
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ficer, turning to me, said :
"Well, doctor, we now have five Brugolians.
I wonder whether any more will appear. They
think they can become members of our crew.
They will find out that it is not so easy."
"Well, Phil," I said, "we can't blame them
for wanting to stay with us. They could at
least judge the difference in the men of the
'Andromeda' and those of the battleship, and,
perhaps, seeing the accommodation provided
for our men —. I think these Brugolians are
not so bad, after all."
"Perhaps you are right," he returned; "I
think we may learn something of interest
from the sergeant."
When we were on the bridge we met the
marconist. With a happy smile, he said:
"The Esperanto will arrive Monday morn
ing at Labora!"
"Then we shall be able to see it very soon,"
Henderson remarked.
The day passed peacefully.
We were together in the salon after dinner,
relating some of our experiences with the Bru
golians.
Henderson thoughtfully remarked:
"How strange life is; strange that there
must always be something of an opposing na
377
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ture to make life eventful and interesting."
"Indeed," said the chief engineer, "it does
not seem possible to avoid trouble and inhar
monious conditions. They seem to come
without our seeking them : Bullock and Ritter,
for instance!"
"Nor the Brugolian brutes!" Miss Shetland
interrupted.
"And yet, we had them here," said Van
Hoover. "We could not see what advantage
there was to be gained, and yet, I am sure we
can agree that the vision we had, and the re
ward of our faith, have more than repaid us
for all the unpleasantness we endured ! And
who can see the ultimate result?"
"Ritter, for instance," Burton observed, "is
worth while; even Bullock is changing; and
as for the Brugolians, well — who can tell!"
"If their experiences do not net them any
thing," Mrs. Van Hoover observed, "then an
other life will be benefited."
"As we accept the light of the day, so must
we accept the darkness," Viola added. "Let
us also accept dark and troublesome times as
necessary stimulants for spiritual growth."
On the following day, the third Sunday of
our voyage, the Brugolian officers and Ritter
were much better, sitting in easy steamer
378
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
chairs on deck, enjoying the delightful
weather.
I was with them.
When Viola's marvelous music sounded
through the air and over the ocean, I noticed
their surprise. They were deeply moved and
hardly able to express their feelings.
And later, during and after the lecture in
the crew's recreation room, they were very
much astonished by what they had heard and
seen.
When evening came and we were together
again in the salon, all agreed that the Brugol-
ians were earnestly searching for the truth.
"Indeed," Phil observed, "good surround
ings, good company, and good thoughts are
the means of making new men of them !"
"It is certainly true," Van Hoover re
marked, "that 'as a man thinketh in his
heart, so is he'. Konart is a good example.
"To be sure," Viola observed, "I do not
think we have any reason to complain. Our
trials have not only increased our faith, but
turned the thoughts of the men who have
come among us into different channels. Who
can say what the result will be?"
After a pause, during which we were occu
pied with our own thoughts, Burton remarked :
379
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"As I look back on our experience with the
Brugolians, I wonder if it would not have
been better to have had the ladies meet them
when they made their tour of inspection. To
have depended on the Higher Powers for pro
tection, I mean."
"It may look foolish," said Van Hoover, "as
we look back and wonder why we did it.
Then again, perhaps, if we could see the hid
den, or unknown causes in life, we could al
so see the hidden and unknown effects. How
many times have we had strange and foolish
ideas that in later years we could not under
stand how it was possible to have ever had
such foolish ideas come in our minds? How
do we know what the circumstance that
brought Ritter to us may mean? Then again,
perhaps, the peculiar circumstances were
necessary to bring about the astral experi
ence ! Or, the circumstances causing the de
lays may have served to bring the event at a
time and place when the planetary influences
would be most favorable for the phenome
non. I think, we may be sure that no expe
rience is without some purpose, and accord
ing to how you meet it determines its value
to you.
380
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
As if to corroborate these statements, I
heard the voice of our astral friend saying:
"Your perfect faith made it possible for
you to come through the ordeal! You have
emerged safely and a bond has been formed
that shall bind you in a perfect fellowship,
making you fit for the great work before you
as teachers of men."
XLVIII
It is doing things that count. One may have all the
good intentions in the world, but if they are not made
manifest in deeds what do they amount to?—Selected.
I ask nothing from the world but peace and the
privilege of producing work which shall some day
belong to it. —Wagner.
TT was Monday morning and at dawn La-
bora came in view.
Every one, not on duty, was on deck, crowd
ing to the railing, gazing with eager face at
the lovely island.
Van Hoover, taking me by the arm, said:
"Behold our promised land ! This is where
we are carrying out our plan; this is Labora!"
What a sensation it caused me ! I think it
must have affected the others in the same
way.
381
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
A new fatherland was going to be founded
here on this 'El Dorado'! A New Republic
filled with happier homes, with people living
under better conditions!
The nearer we came the more boldly stood
out this beautiful island, lying there like an
emerald, bordered by pearls of foam of a sap
phire sea.
Along the shores of the island many cocoa-
nut palms gave variety to the picture. In the
distance could be seen mountains rearing their
heads in solemn majesty. Indeed, God's na
ture is beautiful and inspiring!
Nearer and nearer we came! Larger and
larger the island looked ! We could see a few
buildings and a wireless station at the top of
one of the hills.
Looking aft, I saw a big steamer following.
She was the "Esperanto" which we saw the
day before, far distant from us at first, but
gradually approaching. Now we could see
distinctly men, women, and children, eagerly
looking toward the island.
A great "hurrah" arose from the "Andro
meda" and "Esperanto". A band added to
the welcome. From a flagstaff on shore a flag
was waving.
As we dropped anchor in the beautiful bay,
382
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Viola's soul-touching, inspiring music re
sounded over the bay and shore, thrilling us
with great enthusiasm.
In another quarter of an hour the "Esper
anto" dropped anchor alongside the yacht.
Repeated greetings and "hurrahs!" were
shouted from ship to ship.
A short distance from us lay a submarine
and a hydroplane.
A launch put out from the shore. Two men,
dressed in white suits and large hats, were
standing at the bow. As the launch drew near
er I was surprised to see Mr. MacDonald and
my old friend Bill Wright. I could hardly
believe my eyes.
Viola, who was standing by my side, her
hand on my arm, laughed at my look of sur
prise.
"Why, Viola, how in the world did they
come here?"
She smiled: "You will know soon enough
— soon enough, Mr. Curiosity!"
As they stepped on board, I grasped their
hands, and slapping Bill on the back, said:
"You thought to play a prank on me and
steal a march! How did you do it! Fly?"
They all laughed at my astonishment. Mrs.
Van Hoover reminded us that breakfast had
383
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
been announced. Turning to our friends, she
invited :
"Join us and give an account of your ac
tions : the doctor is consumed with curiosity."
During breakfast Bill told me he had come
from New York by airplane, and MacDonald
had joined him in San Francisco. Thence
they had taken the hydroplane to Labora.
I was delighted to hear that Bill was work
ing with Van Hoover.
Our friends had many thrilling experiences
to tell and found us interesting listeners.
"How long were you coming, Mac?" Bur
ton asked.
"Two days, four hours, and thirty minutes
from San Francisco."
"Some going," the chief engineer remarked,
"but the time will come before long, when they
will travel from America to Europe in less
time!"
We had just finished breakfast when the
signal was given that officers from the "Es
peranto" were coming on board.
We met them on deck. As soon as we were
seated in the salon, Van Hoover, turning to the
captain of the "Esperanto', said :
"Captain Flinck, we are very curious to hear
your story."
384
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"Well, Mr. Van Hoover, we followed your
orders and sailed to the point where we were
to meet the 'Andromeda'. We waited some
hours, then sent a wireless for information.
You did not reply, and all efforts to reach you
failed. Thereupon I communicated with La-
bora, whence the submarine and hydroplane
were sent to us. I ordered Fairbanks to go
with his submarine and investigate the neigh
borhood. It was late when he returned.
Fairbanks can tell you better than I what he
found."
"I had gone about ten miles," Captain Fair
banks explained, "when I heard a voice or
dering: 'Go straight West !' I looked around,
but finding no one standing near, concluded it
was 'the voice' I heard you people talk about.
I hesitated — again the voice said : 'Go West;
you will find the "Andromeda'.' I followed
instructions, passing many islands, lagoons,
and coral reefs. We were compelled to go
slowly to avoid the many obstacles, but at
last, rounding a small island, I saw the 'An
dromeda' and a battleship. I concluded it
was a Brugolian ship. Being satisfied that
she had no good intentions, and not being
able to render any assistance, I returned to the
'Esperanto'."
385
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Van Hoover interrupted, turning to me and
explained:
"You understand, of course, that our sub
marine is not built for war purposes, besides
— well, you know our principles."
"And therefore," Burton said smilingly,
"Captain Fairbanks could not destroy the bat
tleship, and drown our enemies by sending a
torpedo through the hull of the craft. — But
go on, Fairbanks!"
"On my return," Fairbanks continued, "we
held a consultation, trying to decide the best
move to make. We were of the opinion that
the Brugolian battleship was not with the 'An
dromeda' for any good. And not being able
to receive a wireless from you confirmed our
suspicions. We then decided that the subma
rine and the hydroplane should go to the assist
ance of the 'Andromeda', the 'Esperanto' fol
lowing, but keeping out of sight of the Brugol-
ians. I went as near the island and the battle
ship as possible, concealing the submarine
first by a cape of the island. A good swimmer
volunteered to swim to the island, and then
walk to the nearest point from where he could
swim to the warship, carrying a note in a
closed bottle."
Van Hoover and Burton smiled compre
386
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
hendingly. We all became more interested.
With a twinkle in his eyes, Fairbanks con
tinued :
"The note ran : 'If any harm comes to the
'Andromeda', you will be held responsible.
You are advised to leave immediately to avoid
trouble. A hydroplane is also watching you
and can in the shortest time take the neces
sary measures." Of course, the Brugolians
did not know we were not armed, but the
'bluff' worked. The rest you can imagine !"
We had followed his story with great atten
tion. Van Hoover said, smiling :
"You are to be congratulated as great fight
ers. Not every ship can put to flight a battle
ship without firing a shot!"
"The appearance of the submarine and air
plane was so sudden," Captain Burton re
marked, "that Stonaha was undoubtedly pan
ic-stricken; his already over-wrought condi
tion made him unfit to cope with the situa
tion!"
"And they were not sure, of course, wheth
er or not more submarines and battleships
were following the airplane!" Henderson ad
ded.
"Probably Stonaha thought he was haunt
ed," Burton remarked, "and that the horrors
387
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
of the night before were being repeated!"
"What was that?" Captain Flinck inquired.
Van Hoover and Burton related what had
occurred as briefly as possible.
"Why did you not wire us," Flinck inquired,
"seeing the Brugolians following you?"
"Why," said Van Hoover, "It was careless
ness I think." Then smilingly, "Or, maybe,
we thought you could not render us any assist
ance and that it would be unwise to bring all
aboard the "Esperanto' unnecessarily in dan
ger. And then, we were satisfied no harm
would come to us."
"Moreover," Burton added, "in time of war
it is advisable to refrain as much as possible
from 'wirelessing'."
"When the Brugolians were on the yacht,"
Flinck inquired, "you could not communicate
with us because they had a guard in your
wireless station?"
"Yes, that was it!"
388
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
XLIX
Never will I seek nor receive private, individual sal
vation; never will I enter into final peace alone; but
forever, and everywhere, will I live and strive for the
redemption of every creature throughout the world.
—Kwan-Yin.
We should aim at creating free men and women, free
intellectually, free morally, unprejudiced in all respects,
and above all things UNSELFISH.— H. P. Blavatsky.
^r* HE days , after our arrival in Labora
.*.
seemed to pass quickly, apparently
caused by the newness of, and the pleasant
activity in, our circumstances.
Even the submarine and hydroplane were
not idle. They were used for bringing over
at the greatest speed, and under the least ad
verse atmospheric influence, rare plants and
seeds from the neighboring countries to be
transplanted in Labora.
On a former voyage the "Esperanto" had
brought over trucks and automobiles, machin
ery and other implements.
The first colonists had done splendid pio
neers' work; and the newcomers could now
begin a new life under more favorable condi
tions.
389
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Ritter and Konart, who were speedily re
cuperating, wanted to join in these new activ
ities.
Bullock, though different in many respects,
seemed unable to see the unselfish motives of
Van Hoover, or . understand the occult laws
upon which the colony was founded. It was
decided to take him back to America.
Mulano wished to go to the States. The
other Brugolians^were to accompany him, ex
cept the sergeant who wanted to stay in La-
bora. He and Ritter had become warm
friends.
Miss Shetland was gradually improving in
many ways, and was useful for Mrs. Van
Hoover's work.
Van Hoover was very much occupied. He
hardly had time, for recreation.
Captain Burton and Captain Flinck, and
their crew, when not on duty aboard their
ships, were helping Van Hoover in different
ways on the island. ,
Viola and I were doing our part, but mostly
working together.
Once, when we were in our temporary of
fice and hardly through our work, Bill inter
rupted my concentration.
"Come on," he said, "you ought to have
390
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
some information from above — "
At this juncture he was called by Van
Hoover, who stood at the door, ready to leave.
"From above ! Was I to have another psy
chic experience?" I thought.
Viola, reading my thoughts, said laughing-
iy:
"No, Henry dear, one occult experience a
week is about all one party can stand!"
"Oh, you tease ! I am an open book to you !
What did he mean, 'from above'?"
"I am not going to tell you!" v
Rising from her desk and waving her hand
kerchief mockingly, she joined the others.
I followed shortly after them.
Walking in the direction of the hydroplane,
Bill said:
"Come on, doc, if you are not afraid,
we will take a flight over our empire!"
"I have never had the pleasure of being a
bird," I replied, "yet, I have always thought
I should like to ! I guess I am game !"
Soon we were mounting into the clear blue
ether. Never was there a more faultless day,
and never was an individual more completely
astounded at his first novel experience of fly
ing, and by the most magnificently beautiful
vision that now met our gaze. Nature had
391
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
poured lavishly from her hand when she cre
ated this emerald island gem!
When Wright was pointing to the works
of the pioneers and I could see the present ac
tivity through my field-glasses, it seemed as
if my whole being was carried upward from
its material envelope — Then I shouted:
"Hush! my dream has come true!"
I don't know what Wright thought. All I
was conscious of was that I was living over
the dream I had had before I started on this
eventful voyage.
I had but to supply from my subjective mind
the peopling and buildings to realize, here
and now, the beautiful paradise in the far
away star of my dream.
The first flash of realization over, I became
calmer. The sensation of dropping from a
higher to a lower altitude brought me to my
self again. I glanced to Wright on whose
face played a genial smile, and as I caught his
eye I said :
"Excuse my temporary insanity, but this
sight brought so vividly to my mind a dream
I had before we left San Francisco, that I was
lost in ecstacy."
"I don't blame you," ,he replied, "isn't it
wonderful?"
392
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Mere words fail to describe the enchanting
scenes below and the sensation I felt, even
when stepping from the, airplane and meeting
our party.
I was musing : How strange my dream had
been ! If not literally, it had been fulfilled in
many ways: the yacht, the tropical sun, the
battleship, the storm, the submarine, the
plane, MacDonald, Wright, these happy peo
ple, the New Civilization!
Strange that our astral foreshadowings are
not quite similar to. the fulfillments on the ma
terial plane!
I was lost in my musings and dreams, the
wonderful experiences of the voyage, this
wonderful colony of Labora, the Aquarian
Brotherhood, and my dream of the future —
— a hand was grasping my arm
Viola who had come to my side, said :
"Why, Henry, have you forgotten there is
to be a very important announcement this af
ternoon, one you are interested in?"
Looking at her I became cognizant of my
surroundings, and replied:
"No, my dear, I had not forgotten, but I was
lost in my dream!"
We walked to an open square, destined to
393
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
become a public park, where the colonists had
gathered.
Van Hoover delivered a lecture in which he
explained his future plans, the organization
of the New Repub
lic,, the Aquarian
Brotherhood, and
reminded us of the
most important
things in order to
make a success.
After finishing
his lecture Van
Hoover announced :
"My friends, it
gives me pleasure
to announce the
marriage of my sis
ter to Doctor Hartford, according to the rules
of the New Republic."
In the midst of beautiful flowers and kind
and loving friends, Viola and I plighted our
troth.
We did not have a marriage ceremony in ac
cordance with the orthodoxy of modern so
ciety, but instead we stepped in a beautiful
bower of flowers, Viola taking my hand say
ing:
394
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"I, Viola Van Hoover, take thee, Henry
Hartford to be my husband as long as harmony
exists !"
I repeated the same formula.
When we were alone that evening, Viola
reading from Sir Edwin Arnold's poem, I re
marked :
"Now we are blended into one beautiful and
perfect whole — are we not?"
"Yes, my dear, the long night of trial is
ended and our way lies open and onward to a
perfect day."
"Read again, will you?"
Her inspirational, magnetic voice repeated :
"Somewhere there waited in this world of ours
For one lone soul another lonely soul ,
Each chasing each through all the weary hours,
And meeting strangely at some sudden goal.
Then blend they like green leaves with golden
flowers,
Into one beautiful and perfect whole,
And the long night is ended, and the way
Lies open onward unto perfect day."
THE END.
395
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
AFTERWORD
Every noble work is at first impossible —Carlyle
npHE Publishers originally planned to give
■*■
in this chapter the contents of my booklet,
"THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING", pub
lished in July, 1926. Instead, this space will
be used for another purpose, as I intend to
write a second edition of the booklet, adding
to it such material as may interest the reader.
As long as the supply allows, the publishers
will be glad to send to any address the first
edition of the "PROOF OF THE PUDDING",
for 3 cents to cover the expenses.
What we do upon some great occasion will probably
depend on what we already are; and what we are will
be the result of previous years of self-discipline.
—H. P. IJddon.
"THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS" — as you
have already discerned — deals with a subject
of how to bring about a New Humanity. Much
was unsaid, however. Reasons why another
book seems advisable — a sequel, which could
be read independently — a story by itself,
with similar title, say :
"THE AQUARIAN REPUBLIC
Adventure and Romance on Land and Sea
Anyone interested in this subject may com
municate with the author, care of
A. WAGNER PUBLISHING CO.,
3022 Inez Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
396
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
The man who wins, Is the man who works,
Who neither labor nor trouble shirks;
Who uses his hands, his head, his eyes;
The man who wins, is the man who tries.
—Selected
The author wants to acknowledge his indebt
edness to many friends —Aquarians and those
who have developed Aquarian Qualities dur
ing the present transitory period — in helping
to make the publication of this book possible.
Moreover, the author wishes to express his
appreciation of the spirit and endeavors of
those now forming groups of "Aquarian Pio
neers" for bringing into practice principles
proposed in this book.
Anyone interested in the work or future
plans of these groups should write for their
literature, enclosing stamps to cover the ex
penses, to any or all of the following ad
dresses :
"The Builders of the New Humanity",
Manzanar, Calif.
"Unity", 2501 So. Euclid Ave., Ontario, Calif.
"The Aquarian Brotherhood",
3022 Inez St., Los Angeles, Cal.
We are all in the commonwealth. Kill
that maggot in the man's brain that gives
him the idea he can exist for himself
alone.
—British Journal of Astrology.
397
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
ERRATA :
Page 32, under quotation: Budda, should be Buddha.
Page 33, 1st line: conjecturng, should be, conjecturing.
Page 34, footnote on page 36, should be on page 34.
Page 35, fourth line of footnote; aquarian, should be Aquarian.
Page 36, footnote, should be on page 34.
Page 37, last line: See footnote on page 36, should be: See
footnote on page 35.
Page 64, under illustration 4: Trltriation, should be Initiation.
Page S3, under illustration 6: See footnote, should be, See
footnote on page 82.
Page 92, Footnote: See illustration and footnote on page 93,
should be *) See illustration No. 7 on page 94 and footnote
on page 93.
Page 94, 24th line: achevenient, should be achievement.
Page 98, 7th line: wiwth, should be with.
Page 99, 6th line: prohpecy, should be prophecy.
Page 99, lOlh line: nto, should be into.
Page 99. 13th line: read the, should be read of the.
Page 100, 18th line: **, should be **).
Footnote ommitted by printer, should read: **)In St. Luke
XIX: 40: "If these should hold their peace, the stones would
immediately cry out."
Page 102, 1st and 2d line: BEFORE*) COMING EVENTS
CAST THEIR SHADOWS should be: COMING EVENTS
•CAST THEIR SHADOWS BEFORE*)
Page 102, last line: on page , should be, on page 103.
Page 103, 11 th line: be fixed, should be, be in fixed.
Page 104. 8th line: soon*) Footnote omitted by printer, should
read: Some astrologers and seers think that 1928 will bring
another war, the Armageddon.
Page 113, 10th and 11th lines: sel-flshness, should be self
ishness.
Page 113, 28th line: man fixed, should be man of fixed.
Page 127, 1st and 2d lines: should be omitted on this page
and placed on top of page 129.
Page 129, two lines omitted by printer on top of this page,
found on top of page 127.
Page 132, 19th line, so, should be, son.
Page 135, 10th line: felloms, should be, fellows.
Page 160, 18th line: ttrae and prove statements?, should be,
trate and prove my statements?"
Page 168, 10th line: diec should be, disc.
Page 169. 8th line: bebcause, should be, because.
■"H i
" " i" ■■'■"■*— *~~n-*- |
i.
Page 201, 3d line in verse: breath, should be, breast.
Page 204, 3d line: younger, should be, young.
Page 205, last line of verse: forevermore?, should be, for-
evermore!
398
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Page 208, 16th line: beauriful, should be beautiful.
Page 209, 16th line, vagne, should be, vague.
Page 224, 10th line, thaching, should be teaching.
Page 227, 2d line: ybu, should be, you.
Page 227, 7th and 8th lines: un-standingly, should be, under-
standingly.
Page 229, 7th line: things, should be thing.
Page 235, 3d line: to that, should be, to me that.
Page 235, 16th line: liken, should be liked.
Page 237, 3d line: positionof, should be, position of.
Page 237, 20th line: bnt, shoult be, but.
Page 241, 20th and 21st lines: moving to fro on, should be,
moving to and fro on.
Page 252, 5th line: reproacnfully, should be, reproachfully.
Page 253, 22d line: the young Brugollan, should be, the Bru-
golian.
Page 254, 5th line, for the the, should be. for the.
Page 257, 4th line in verse: sororw, should be, sorrow.
Page 262. 18th line: Was it it in, should be, Was it in.
Page 270, 23d line: Captan, should be Captain.
Page 273, 21st line: to flight, should be to fight.
Page 277, 22d line: in few days, should be, in a few days.
Page 283. 15th lino: conrtsy, should be courtesy.
Page 285, 2d line of 2d verse: Eternal Llrn, should be, Eternal
Plan.
Page 287, 11th line: mp friend, should be my friend.
Page 297, 20th line: and sky. should be, and the sky.
Page 297, 21st line: had melancholic, should be, had a mel
ancholic.
Page 301, 10th line: gave way, shoul be, gave away.
Page 303, 1st line: Konar, should be, Konart.
Pape 305. 3d line:, mintes, should be, minutes.
Page 310, 1st line: senuous, should be, sensuous.
Pr^p 312, l"th line: noticing, should be, motioning.
Page 314, 23d line: gieen, should be, given.
Page 317, 5th and 6th lines: money and and symbols, should
be, Money and symbols.
Page 318. 8th line: Wickedness?, should be, Wickedness!
Page 318, last line: on officers, should be, on the officers.
Page 320, 7th line : my. study the astral, should be, my study,
the astral.
Page 326, 13th line: examina, should be examination.
Page 326. 23d line: justifid. should be, justified.
Page 329, 1st line: "now, should be, how.
Page 329. 11th line: continued. We, should be, continued "We.
Page 329, 13th line: at the end, should be, at an end.
Page 330, 8th line: qnalities, should be, qualities.
Page 338, 5th line: Lleuten, should be Lieutenant.
In some copies of this edition some of the errors are cor
rected.
399
THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
"COMING EVENTS CAST THEIR
SHADOWS BEFORE"
npHE Twelfth Chapter of this book ("Th<
.*.
Aquarian Pioneers") was published ir
advance in March, 1926, as it contains prophe
cies ; some of them have been fulfilled, others
are in course of fulfillment. If you would lik(
to send some copies to your friends, you car
order from the
A. WAGNER PUBLISHING Co.,
3022 Inez St., Los Angeles, Cal.
It is a 16-page illustrated booklet.
Price per copy, 15c ; 3 copies, 35c ; 5 copies,
50c ; 10 copies or over, 9c per copy.
"THE PROOF OF THE PUDDING",
3c per copy; 10 copies, 25c.
ji jt j*
Will Be Published Soon :
MARCH OF THE AQUARIAN PIONEERS
Music by Prof. Arthur Knight.
Price 35 Cents
A. WAGNER PUBLISHING CO.,
3022 Inez Street,
Los Angeles, California, U. S. A.
400
