{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__powell___the_astral_body.pdf","mytitle":"The Astral Body","mylang":"de"}
!
!
!
!
!
!
The Astral Body!
and other astral phenomena!
!
by!
!
Lieut-Colonel Arthur E. Powell!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
!
The Theosophical!
Publishing House Limited!
[London]!
[1926]!
!
!
DEDICATION
TAis 60d is '/';CIIIl' flJilA1'1I1ihlM
IIU appr/(jlllioll 10 .11 IAos/ flJADSt
'llillsllllill1 11160.'1111'"MarlAts AIIfJ/
IrtltJiJt' IAt ",.Imllis filiI oJ
flJAitA il us 6ttll
to",pilt'
The views expressed in this book are those of the
author, and must not be taken as necessarily those of
The TheosophicalSociety.
" To know man is to know God.
" To know God is to know man.
" To study the universe is to learn both God and man; for
the universe is the expression of the Divine Thought,
and the universe is mirrored in man.
" Knowledge is necessary if the SELF would become free
and know Itself as Itself alone."
ANNIE BESANT.
CONTENTS
CHAPTER PAGE
INTRODUCTION xiii
I. GENERAL DESCRIPTION • I
II. COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE 4
III. COLOURS II
IV. FUNCTIONS. 23
V. CHAKRAMS 31
VI. KUNDALINI • • 38
VII. THOUGHT-FoRMS 43
VIII. PHYSICAL LIFE 64
IX. SLEEP-LIFE. 82
X. DREAMS 93
XI. CONTINUITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS 104
XII. DEATH AND THE DESIRE-ELEMENTAL 107
XIII. AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PRINCIPLES 112
XIV. AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS. 120
XV. AFTER-DEATH LIFE: SPECIAL CASES 136
XVI. THE ASTRAL PLANE 144
XVII. MISCELLANEOUS ASTRAL PHENOMENA ISS
XVIII. THE FOURTH DIMENSION 161
XIX. ASTRAL ENTITIES: HUMAN 166
XX. ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HuMAN 174
XXI. ASTRAL ENTITIES: ARTIFICIAL 188
XXII. SPIRITUALISM 192
XXIII. ASTRAL DEATH 204
XXIV. RE-BIRTH 207
XXV. THE MASTERY OF EMOTION 213
XXVI. DEVELOPMENT OF ASTRAL POWERS 222
XXVII. CLAIRVOYANCE IN SPACE AND TIME 232
XXVIII. INVISIBLE HELPERS 236
XXIX. CONCLUSION 250
INDEX 253
ill:
AUTHORS QUOTED
Book Autho« Edn. AbbYevi-
ation
Ancient Wisdom A. Besant 1897 AW
Astral Plane . C. W. Leadbeater . 1910 AP
Changing World A. Besant 1909 CW
Clairvoyance C. W. Leadbeater . 1908 C
Crowd in Peace and War Sir Martin Conway 1915 CPW
Death and After A. Besant 1901 DA
Dreams . . . C. W. Leadbeater . 19°3 D
Hidden Side of Things, Vol. C. W. Leadbeater . 1913 HS I
I.
Hidden Side of Things, Vol. C. W. Leadbeater . 1913 HSII
II.
Inner Life, Vol. I. C. W. Leadbeater . 1910 ILl
Inner Life, Vol. II. e. W. Leadbeater . 19II I L II
Introduction to Yoga A. Besant 1908 IY
Invisible Helpers C. W. Leadbeater . 19II IH
Karma A. Besant 1897 K
Key to Theosophy H. P. Blavatsky 1893 KT
Law of Psychic Phenomena T. J. Hudson 19°5 LPP
Life after Death C. W. Leadbeater . 1912 LA D
London Lectures, 1907 A. Besant 19°7 LL
Man and His Bodies . A. Besant 19o0 MB
Man Visible and Invisible C. W. Leadbeater . 1902 M V I
Masters and the Path C. W. Leadbeater . 1925 MP
Monad C. W. Leadbeater . 1920 M
Occult Chemistry A. Besant and C. W. 1919 OC
Leadbeater
Occult World A. P. Sinnett 1906 OW
Other Side of Death . C. W. Leadbeater . 19°4 OSD
Reincarnation . A. Besant 1898 R
Science of the Emotions Bhagavan Das 19°0 SE
Secret Doctrine, Vol. I. H. P. Blavatsky 19°5 SDI
Secret Doctrine, Vol. II. H. P. Blavatsky 19°5 S D II
Secret Doctrine, Vol. III. H. P. Blavatsky 1897 S DIll
Self and its Sheaths . A. Besant 19°3 SS
Seven Principles of Man A. Besant 19°4 SP
Seven Rays . . . Ernest Wood 1925 SR
Some Glimpses of Occultism C. W. Leadbeater . 19°9 SGO
Some Occult Experiences . J.Van Manen 1913 SOE
Study in Consciousness A. Besant 19°4 SC
Textbook of Theosophy . C. W. Leadbeater . 1914 TB
Theosophy and the New A. Besant 1909 TNP
Psychology
Thought Forms A. Besant and C. W. 19°5 TF
Leadbeater
Thought Power: Its Control A. Besant 19°3 TP
and Culture
N.B.-In a few cases, where the unsupported opinions of the com-
piler are given, they are indicated by the letters A.E.P.
xi
PUBLISHER'S PREFACE
THE author's purpose in compiling the books in this
series was to save students much time and labour by
providing a condensed synthesis of the considerable
literature on the respective subjects of each volume,
coming mostly from the pens of Annie Besant and
C. W. Leadbeater. The accompanying list shows the
large number of books from which he drew. So far as
possible, the method adopted was to explain the form
side first, before the life side: to describe the objective
mechanism of phenomena and then the activities of
consciousness that are expressed through the mecha-
nism. There is no attempt to prove or even justify any
of the statements. Marginalreferencesgive opportunity
to refer to the sources.
The works of H. P. Blavatsky were not used because
the author said that the necessary research in The
Secret Doctrine and other writings would have been too
vast a task for him to undertake. He added: "The debt
to H. P. Blavatsky is greater than could ever be in-
dicated by quotations from her monumental volumes.
Had she not shown the way in the first instance, later
investigators might never have found the trail at all,"
The present edition has been slightly abridged and
edited to avoid possible misunderstanding in the
changed conditions of today. The reader is asked 'to
take note of the following points:
I. "Ego" is used in this book for the reincarnating
Individuality; not, as in modern psychology, for the
evanescent personality.
2. The words If atom," If atomic," If sub-atomic" and
" molecule " are used in a specialized sense and do not
refer to a chemical atom and molecule. So also are
If ether" and If etheric ".
xii
INTRODUCTION
THE purpose of this book is to present to the student
of Theosophy a condensed synthesis of the information
at present! available concerning the Astral Body of man,
together with a description and explanation of the
astral world and its phenomena. The book is thus a
natural sequel of The Etheric Double and AUied Pheno-
mena published in 1925.
As in the case of The Etheric Double, the compiler has
consolidated the information obtained from a large
number of books, a list of which is given, arranging the
material, which covers a vast field and is exceedingly
complex, as methodically as lay within his power. It
is hoped that by this means present and future students
of the subject will besaved much labour and research,
being able not only to find the information they require
presented in a comparatively small compass, but also,
with the help of the marginal references, to refer,
should they so desire, to the original sources of infor-
mation.
In order that the book may fulfil its purpose by
being kept within reasonable dimensions, the general
plan followedhas been to expound the principles under-
lying astral phenomena, omitting particular examples
or instances. Lecturers and others who wish specific
illustrations of the principles enunciated, will find the
marginal references useful as a clue to the places where
the examples they seek may be found.
Again, so far as the complexities and ramifications of
the subject permit, the method has been to explain the
formside first, before the life side: i.e., to describe first
the objective mechanism of phenomena, and then the
activities of consciousness which are expressed through
that mechanism. The careful student, bearing this in
1 1926. xiii
xiv INTRODUCTION
mind. will thus recognise many passages, which at
first glance might appear to be repetitive, in which
the same phenomenon is described first from the
point of view of the outer material form and then
again later from the point of view of the spirit or
consciousness.
It is hoped that the present volume may be followed
by similar ones dealing with man's Mental and Causal
bodies, thus completing the consolidation of all infor-
mation so far available regarding man's constitution up
to the Causal or Higher Mental level.
There is to-day a great deal of information on these
and similar subjects, but it is for the most part
scattered over large numbers of books. In order,
therefore, to make the whole of it available for
the student, whose time for intensive study is
limited, such books as the present is intended
to be are (in the writer's opinion) urgently needed.
II The proper study of mankind is man : " and the sub-
ject is so vast, so absorbing, and so important that
everything possible should be done to make readily
accessible to all who thirst for such knowledge the
whole of the information which has so far been accu-
mulated.
A. E. P.
THE ASTRAL BODY
CHAPTER I
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
BEFORE proceeding to a detailed study of the astral
body. and of phenomena associated with it, it may
be useful to lay before the student a brief outline of
the ground it is proposed to cover, in order to give
in proper perspective a view of the whole subject and
of the relative dependence of its several parts,
Briefly, the astral body of man is a vehicle, to
clairvoyant sight not unlike the physical body, sur-
rounded by an aura of flashing colours, composed of
matter of an order of fineness higher than that of
physical matter, in which feelings. passions, desires
and emotions are expressed and which acts as a bridge
or medium of transmission between the physical brain
and the mind, the latter operating in the still higher
vehicle-the mind-body.
While every man possesses and uses an astral body,
comparatively few are conscious of its existence or
can control and function in it in full consciousness.
In the case of large numbers of persons it is scarcely
more than an inchoate mass of astral matter, the
movements and activities of which are little under
the control of the man himself-the Ego.! With
others, however, the astral body is a well-developed
and thoroughly organised vehicle, possessing a life of
its own and conferring on its owner many and useful
powers.
During the sleepof the physical body, an undeveloped
man leads a dreamy, vague existence. in his relatively
primitive astral body, remembering little or nothing
1 See Publisher's Preface,
THE ASTRAL BODY
of his sleep-life when he re-awakens in his physical
body.
In the case of a developed man, however, the life
in the astral body, whilst the physical body is wrapped
in slmnber, is active, interesting and useful, and the
memory of it may, under certain conditions, be brought
down into the physical brain. The life of such a
man ceases to be a series of days of consciousness and
nights of oblivion, becoming instead a continuous life
of unbroken consciousness, alternating between the
physical and the astral planes or worlds.
One of the first things a man learns to do in his
astral body is to travel in it, it being possible for the
astral body to move, with great rapidity, and to
great distances from the sleeping physical body. An
understanding of this phenomenon throws much light
on a large number of so-called .. occult" phenomena,
such as .. apparitions" of many kinds, knowledge of
places never visited physically, etc.
The astral body being pa, excellence the vehicle of
feelings and emotions, an understanding of its com-
position and of the ways in which it operates is of
considerable value in understanding many aspects of
man's psychology, both individual and collective, and
also provides a simple explanation of the mechanism
of many phenomena revealed by modem psycho-
analysis.
A clear understanding of the structure and nature of
the astral body, of its possibilities and its limitations,
is essential to a comprehension of the life into which
men pass after physical death. The many kinds of
.. heavens," .. hells" and purgatorial existences be-
lieved in by followers of innumerable religions, all
fall naturally into place and become intelligible as
soon as we understand the nature of the astral body
and of the astral world.
A study of the astral body will be of assistance also
in our understanding of many of the phenomena of
the s4anu room and of certain psychic or non-physical
methods of healing disease. Those who are interested
GENERAL DESCRIPTION 3
in what is termed the fourth dimension will find also
a confirmation of many of the theories which have
been formulated by means of geometry and mathe-
matics, in a study of astral world phenomena, as
described by those who have observed them.
A study of the astral body of man thus takes us
far afield and expands enormously a conception of
life based solely on the physical world and the purely
physical senses. As we proceed, we shall see that the
physical senses, invaluable as they are, by no means
represent the limit of what man's vehicles may teach
him of the worlds in which he lives. The awakening
into functioning activity of astral faculties reveals a
new world within the old world and, when a man
becomes able to read aright its significance, he will
obtain such an expanded view of his own life, and
all nature, as will reveal to him the almost limit-
less possibilities latent in man. From this, sooner or
later but inevitably, there will come the impulse, and
later the unshakable determination, to master these
worlds, and himself, to rise superior to his earthly
destiny, and to become an intelligent co-operator with
what has been aptly termed the Supreme Will in
Evolution.
We will now proceed to study, in detail, the astral
body arid many astral phenomena closely associated
with it.
M B38.
M V 112
M B 38.
T B z6.
CHAPTER II
COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE
ASTRAL matter exists in seven grades or orders of
fineness, corresponding to the seven grades of physical
matter, which are solid, liquid, gaseous, etheric.' super-
etheric, sub-atomic and atornic.! No names for these
astral states, however, having so far been devised, it
is usual to describe them, either by the number of
the grade or sub-plane, the finest being Number I,
the coarsest Number 7, or by the corresponding
physical grade. E.g., we speak of astral solid matter,
meaning thereby the seventh or lowest variety: astral
etheric matter, meaning the fourth from the finest:
and so on.
Astral matter, being much finer than physical matter,
interpenetrates it. Every physical atorn.! therefore,
floats in a sea of astral matter, which surrounds it
and fills every interstice in physical matter. It is
of course,wellknown that even in the hardest substance
no two atoms ever touch one another, the space be-
tween two adjacent atoms being in fact enormously
larger than the atoms themselves. Orthodox physical
science long ago has posited an ether! which interpene-
trates all known substances, the densest solid as well
as the most rarefied gas; and just as this ether moves
with perfect freedom between the particles of densest
matter, so does astral matter interpenetrate it in tum.
and moves with perfect freedom among its particles.
Thus a being livingin the astral worldmight be occupy-
ing the same space as a being living in the physical
world; yet each would be entirely unconscious of
the other. and would in no way impede the free move-
ment of the other. The student should thoroughly
familiarise himself with this fundamental conception.
1 See Publisher's Preface.
COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE s
as, without grasping it clearly, it is not possible to
understand large numbers of astral phenomena.
The principle of interpenetration makes it clear
that the different realms of nature are not separated
in space, but exist about us here and now, so that
to perceive and investigate them no movement in
space is necessary, but only an opening within our-
selves of the senses by means of which they can be
perceived.
The astral world, or plane, is thus a condition of 0 C ...
nature, rather than a locality.
It must be noted that a physical atom cannot be 0 C App.
directly broken up into astral atoms. If the force iii-iv.
which whirls the (approximately) fourteen thousand
million .. bubbles in koilon .. into an ultimate physical
atom be pressed back by an effort of will over the
threshold of the astral plane, the atom disappears,
releasing the .. bubbles." The same force, working
then on a higher level, expresses itself, not through
one astral atom, but through a group of forty-nine
such atoms.
A similar relationship, represented by the number T B se-ar,
49, exists between the atoms of any two other con-
tiguous planes of nature: thus an astral atom contains
495
or 282.475,249 .. bubbles," a mental atom, 494
bubbles, and so on.
There is reason to believe that electrons are astral 1 L 11 265.
atoms. Physicists state that a chemical atom of
hydrogen contains probably from 700 to 1000 electrons.
Occult research asserts that a chemical atom of
hydrogen contains 882 astral atoms. This may be a
coincidence, but that does not seem probable.
It should be noted that ultimate physical atoms 0 C 31.
are of two kinds, male and female: in the male, force
pours in from the astral world, passes through the atom
and out into the physical world: in the female, force
passes in from the physical world, through the atom,
and out into the astral worid, thus vanishing from the
physical world.
Astral matter corresponds with curious accuracy to 1 L 1 359-
]60.
, THE ASTRAL BODY
S P 19.
MY 137.
A W94.
M B.3.
the physical matter which it interpenetrates, each
variety of physical matter attracting astral matter of
corresponding density. Thus solid physical matter
is interpenetrated by what we call solid astral matter :
liquid physical by liquid astral, i.e., by matter of the
sixth sub-plane: and similarly with gaseous and the
four grades of etheric matter, each of which is inter-
penetrated by the corresponding grade of astral matter.
A p 39. Precisely as it is necessary that the physical body
S C 327-338.
should contain within its constitution physical matter
in all its conditions, solid, liquid, gaseous and etheric,
so it is indispensable that the astral body should contain
particles of all the seven astral sub-planes, though,
of course, the proportions may vary greatly in different
cases.
M B 11. The astral body of man thus being composed of
M y 52. matter of all seven grades, it is possible for him to
experience all varieties of desire to the fullest possible
extent, the highest as well as the lowest.
It is the peculiar type of response possessed by
astral matter which enables the astral matter to
serve as the sheath in which the Selfcangain experience
of sensation.
In addition to the ordinary matter of the astral
plane, that which is known as the Third Elemental
Kingdom, or simply as the Elemental Essence of the
astral plane, also enters largely into the composition
of man's astral body, and forms what is called the
II Desire-Elemental," which we shall deal with more
fully in later chapters.
M Y 137-39- Astral elemental essence consists of matter of the
six lower levels of the astral plane, vivified by the
Second Outpouring, from the Second Person of the
Trinity. Astral matter of the highest or atomic level,
similarly vivified, is known as Monadic Essence.
In an undeveloped man, the astral body is a cloudy,
loosely organised, vaguely outlined mass of astral
matter, with a great predominance of substances from
the lower grades; it is gross, dark in colour, and
dense-often so dense that the outline of the physical
COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE 7
body is almost lost in it-and is thus fitted to respond
to stimuli connected with the passions and appetites. A W 95.
In size, it extends in all directions about ten or twelve
inches beyond the physical body.
In an average moral and intellectual man the astral A W 98.
body is considerably larger, extending about 18 inches 1 L II 251•
on each side of the body, its materials are more balanced
and finer in quality, the presence of the rarer kinds
giving a certain luminous quality to the whole, and
its outline is clear and definite.
In the case of a spiritually developed man the astral A W 101.
body is still larger in size and is composed of the finest
particles of each grade of astral matter, the higher
largely predominating.
There is so much to be said regarding the colours of
astral bodies that the subject is reserved for a separate
chapter. Here, however, it may be stated that in
undeveloped types the colours are coarse and muddy, A W 98.
gradually becoming more and more luminous as the
man develops emotionally, mentally and spiritually.
The very name "astral," inherited from medizval M V In.
alchemists, signifies "starry," being intended to M B 37-38•
allude to the luminous appearance of astral matter.
As already said, the astral body of a man not only M B 42.
permeates the physical body, but also extends around
it in every direction like a cloud.
That portion of the astral body which extends M B 43.
beyond the limits of the physical body is usually
termed the astral" aura."
Intense feeling means a large aura. It may here 1 L 11 252-
be mentioned that increased size of the aura is a pre- 253·
requisite for Initiation, and the "Qualifications"
should be visible in it. The aura naturally increases
with each Initiation. The aura of the Buddha is said
to have been three miles in radius.
The matter of the physical body having a very strong 1 L 1 391-
attraction for the matter of the astral body, it follows 393·
that by far the greater portion (about 99 per cent.)
of the astral particles are compressed within tile
periphery of the physical body, only the remaining
8 THE ASTRAL BODY
I per cent. filling the rest of the ovoid and forming
the aura.
The central portion of the astral body thus takes
the exact form of the physical body and is, in fact,
very solid and definite, and quite clearly distinguishable
from the surrounding aura. It is usually termed the
astral counterpart of the physical body. The exact
correspondence of the astral body with the physical,
however, is merely a matter of external form, and
does not at all involve any similarity of function in
the various organs, as we shall see more fully in the
chapter on Chakrams.
C 14-15. Not only man's physical body, but everything
physical, has its corresponding order of astral matter
in constant association with it, not to be separated
from it except by a very considerable exertion of
occult force, and even then only to be held apart from
it as long as force is being definitely exerted to that
end. In other words, every physical object has its
astral counterpart. But as the astral particles are
constantly moving among one another as easily as
those of a physical liquid, there is no permanent
association between anyone physical particle and
that amount of astral matter which happens at any
given moment to be acting as its counterpart.
C 40. Usually the astral portion of an object projects
somewhat beyond the physical part of it, so that
metals, stones, etc., are seen surrounded by an astral
aura.
I L I 395· If some part of a man's physical body be removed,
e.g., by amputation, the coherence of the living astral
matter is stronger than its attraction towards the
severed portion of the physical. Consequently the
astral counterpart of the limb will not be carried
away with the severed physical limb. Since the astral
matter has acquired the habit of keeping that particu-
lar form, it- will continue to retain the original shape,
but will soon withdraw within the limits of the maimed
form. The same phenomenon takes place in the case
8f a tree from which a branch has been severed.
COMPOSITION AND STRUCTURE 9
In the case of an inanimate body. however. such as
a chair or a basin. there is not the same kind of indi-
vidual life to maintain cohesion. Consequently. when
the physical object is broken the astral counterpart
would also be divided.
Quite apart from the seven grades of matter. arranged H S 1 4'-46.
in order of fineness, there is also a totally distinct
classification of astral matter, according to its type.
In Theosophical literature the degree of fineness is
usually designated the horizontal division. and the type
the vertical division. The types, of which there are
seven, are as thoroughly intermingled as are the
constituents of the atmosphere. and in every astral
body there is matter of all seven types, the proportion
between them showing the disposition of the man.
whether he be devotional or philosophic, artistic or
scientific, pragmatic or mystic.
The whole of the astral portion of our earth and of IfS 1 42-4'.
the physical planets, together with the purely astral 43;',11 431-
planets of our System, make up collectively the astral
body of the Solar Logos. thus showing that the old
pantheistic conception was a true one.
Similarly each of the seven types of astral matter H S 1 46-49;
. t d d h I 51-52.
15 0 some extent, regar e as a woe, a separate 1 L 11 431-
vehicle. and may be thought of as also the astral body ~3.
of a subsidiary Deity or Minister. who is at the same 290:2119-
time an aspect of the Deity, a kind of ganglion or force-
centre in Him. Hence the slightest thought, move-
ment or alteration of any kind in the subsidiary Deity
is instantly reflected in some way or other in all the
matter of the corresponding type. Such psychic
changes occur periodically: perhaps they correspond
to in-breathing and out-breathing. or to the beating
of the heart with us on the physical plane. It has
been observed that the movements of the physical
planets furnish a clue to the operation of the influences
Bowing from these changes: hence the rationale of
astrological science. Hence. further, any such altera-
tion must to some extent affect each man, in proper-
tion to the amount of that type of matter which he
10 THE ASTRAL BODY
B S 1 ,.a: possesses in his astral body. Thus, one change would
54: 56. affect the emotions, or the mind, or both, another
might intensify nervous excitement and irritability,
and so on. It is this proportion which determines in
each man. animal, plant or mineral certain funda-
mental characteristics which never change-sometimes
called his note, colour, or ray.
To pursue this interesting line of thought further
would take us beyond the scope of this book, so
the student is referred to. Tiu Hidden SUU of Tllines.
Vol. I. pp. 'U-S8.
H S 1 41. There are seven sub-types in each type, making
forty-nine sub-types in all.
B S 1 .....49- The type or ray is permanent through the whole
planetary scheme, so that an elemental essence (see
p. 6) of type A will in due course ensoul minerals,
plants and animals of type A, and from it willemerge
also human beings of the same type.
1 L 1~. The astral body slowly but constantly wears away,
~.S IS: precisely as does the physical, but, instead of the
process of eating and digesting food, the particles
which fall away are replaced by others from the
surrounding atmosphere. Nevertheless, the feeling of
individuality is communicated to the new particles as
they enter, and also the elemental essence included
with each man's astral body undoubtedly feels itself
a kind of entity, and acts accordingly for what jt
considers its own interests.
CHAPTER III
COLOURS
To clairvoyant sight one of the principal features of MY 111-23·
an astral body consists of the colours which are con-
stantly playing through it, these colours corresponding
to, and being the expression in astral matter of feelings,
passions and emotions.
All known colours, and many which are at present M Y 1 23:
unknown to us, exist upon each of the higher planes 7
1
•
of nature, but as we rise from one stage to another
they become more delicate and more luminous, so
that they may be described as higher octaves of
colour. As it is not possible to portray these octaves
physically on paper, the above facts should be borne
in mind when considering the coloured illustrations
of the astral body which are referred to below.
The following is a list of the principal colours and
the emotions of which they are an expression:-
Black: in thick clouds: hatred and malice. M Y 1 81.
Red: deep red flashes, usually on a black ground:
anger.
A scarlet cloud: irritability. M Y 1 13.
BriUiant scarlet: on the ordinary background of
the aura: "noble indignation."
Lurid and sanguinary red: unmistakable, though
not easy to describe: sensuality.
Brown-grey: dull, hard brown-grey: selfishness: M Y 1 82.
one of the commonest colours in the astral body.
BrOUln-red : dull, almost rust-eolour: avarice,
usually arranged in parallel bars across the astral body.
Greenish-brOUln: lit up by deep red or scarlet flashes :
jealousy. In the case of an ordinary man there is
usually much of this colour present when he is "in
love."
ra THE ASTRAL BODY
AI V 186.
1 L 11 134.
wey: heavy, leaden: depression. Like the brown-
red of avarice, arranged in parallel lines, conveying
the impression of a cage.
Grey, livid: a hideous and frightful hue: fear.
Crimson: dull and heavy: selfish love.
Rose-colour : unselfish, love. When exceptionally
brilliant, tinged with lilac: spiritual love for humanity.
JI V 1 83. Orange: pride or ambition. Often found with
7' F 33: 49· irritability.
Yellow: intellect: varies from a deep and dull
tint, through brilliant gold, to clear and luminous
lemon or primrose yellow. Dull yellow ochre implies
the direction of faculty to selfish purposes: clear
gamboge indicates a distinctly higher type; primrose
yellofll denotes intellect devoted to spiritual. ends ;
goltl indicates pure intellect applied to philosophy or
mathematics.
wem: in general, Taries greatly in its significance,
and needs study to be interpreted correctly: mostly
JI V 1 8... it indicates adaptability. Grey-green. slimy in appear-
ance: deceitandcunning. Emeraltlgrem: versatility,
ingenuity and resourcefulness, applied unselfishly.
Pale, luminous blue-green: deep sympathy and com-
passion. with the power of perfect adaptability which
only they can give. Bright apple-green seems always
to accompany strong vitality.
Blue: dark and clear: religious feeling. It is
liable to be tinted by many other qualities, thus
becoming any shade from indigo or a rich deep violet
to muddy grey-blue. Light-blue, such as ultramarine
or cobalt: devotion to a noble spiritual ideal. A
tint of violet indicates a mixture of affection and
devotion. Luminous lilfu-blue, usually accompanied
by sparkling golden stars: the higher spirituality.
with lofty spiritual aspiRtions.
Ultra-violet: higher and purer developments of
psychic faculties.
Ult,a-re4: lower psychic faculties of one who dabbles
in evil and selfish forms of magic.
Joy shows itself in a general brightening and radiancy
COLOURS 13
of both mental and astral bodies, and in a peculiar
rippling of the surface of the body. Cheerfulness
shows itself in a modified bubbling form of this, and
also in a steady serenity.
Surprise is shown by a sharp constriction of the
mental body, usually communicated to both the astral
and physical bodies, accompanied by an increased
glowof the band of affection if the surprise is a pleasant
one, and by an increase of brown and grey if the surprise
is an unpleasant one. The constriction often causes
unpleasant feelings.affecting sometimes the solarplexus,
resulting in sinking and sickness. and sometimes the
heart centre, causing palpitation and even death.
It will be understood that, as human emotions are M V lBo.
hardly ever unmixed, so these colours are seldom
perfectly pure, but more usually mixtures. Thus the
purity of many colours is dimmed by the hard brown-
grey of selfishness. or tinged with the deep orange
of pride.
In reading the full meaning of colours, other points M V 185-86.
have also to be taken into consideration: viz., the
general brilliance of the astral body: the comparative
Gefiniteness or indefiniteness of its outline: the rela-
tive brightness of the different centres of force (see
Chapter V).
The yellow of intellect, the rose of affection, and the M V 1 90.
blue of devotion are always found in the upper part
of the astral body: the colours of selfishness, avarice,
deceit and hatred are in the lower part: the mass of
sensual feeling floats usually between the two.
From this it follows that in the undeveloped man 1 L 11 136:
the lower portion of the ovoid tends to be larger than 2,52.
the upper, so that the astral body has the appearance
of an egg with the small end uppermost. In the more
developed man the reverse is the case, the small end
of the egg pointing downwards. The tendency always
is for the symmetry of the ovoid to re-assert itself by
degrees, so that such appearances are only temporary.
Each quality, expressed as a colour, has its own M V 191.
special type of astral matter. and the average position
THE ASTRAL BODY
of these colours depends upon the specific gravity of
the respective grades of matter. The general principle
H S II 1.54. is that evil or selfish qualities express themselves in
the comparatively slow vibrations of coarser matter,
while good and unselfish qualities play through finer
matter.
AI P 104- This being so, fortunately for us, good emotions
10.5. persist even longer than evil ones, the effectof a feeling
of strong love or devotion remaining in the astral
body long after the occasion that caused it has been
forgotten.
It is possible. though unusual, to have two rates
of vibrations going on strongly in the astral body at
the same time, e.g.• love and anger. The after-
results will go on side by side, but one at a very much
higher level than the other and therefore persisting
longer.
1 L 1 389. High unselfish affection and devotion belong to the
highest (atomic) astral sub-plane. and these reflect
themselves in the corresponding matter of the mental
plane. They thus touch the causal (higher mental)
body, not the lower mental. This is an important
point of which the student should take especial note.
The Ego, who resides on the higher mental plane, is
thus affected only by unselfish thoughts. Lower
thoughts affect, not the Ego, but the permanent atoms
(see p. 207).
Consequently, in the causal body there would be
gaps, not bad colours, corresponding to the lower
feelingsand thoughts. Selfishness, for example, would
show itself as the absence of affection or sympathy :
as soon as selfishness is replaced by its opposite, the
gap in the causal body would be filled up.
JI VI 7&. An intensification of the coarse colours of the astral
body, representing base emotions, whilst finding no
direct expression in the causal body, nevertheless tends
somewhat to dim the luminosity of the colours repre-
senting the opposite virtues in the causal body.
JI V 1 go. In order to realise the appearance of the astral body.
it must be borne in mind that the particles of which
COLOURS IS
it is composed are always in rapid motion: in the
vast majority of cases the clouds of colour melt into
one another and are all the while rolling over one
another, appearing and disappearing as they roll. the
surface of the luminous mist resembling somewhat
the surface of violently boiling water. The various
colours, therefore, by no means retain the same posi-
tions, though there is a normal position towards which
they tend to return.
The student is referred to the book, Man Visible
and Invisible, by Bishop C. W. Leadbeater, for illustra-
tions of the actual appearance of astral bodies:-
Plate VII., p. 88, Astral body of undeveloped man.
Plate X., p. 94. Astral body of average man.
Plate XXIII., p. 123. Astral body of developed man.
(Edition 1902.)
The main characteristics of the three types illustrated
-undeveloped, the average man and the developed
man-may be briefly summarised as follows:-
Undeveloped.-A very large proportion of sensual- MY 188-89·
ity: deceit. selfishness and greed are conspicuous: fierce
anger is implied by smears and blots of dull scarlet:
very little affection appears, and such intellect and
religious feeling as exist are of the lowest possible
kind. The outline is irregular and the colours blurred,
thick and heavy. The whole body is evidently ill-
regulated, confused and uncontrolled.
Average Man.-Sensuality is much less though still M v 194-95·
prominent: selfishness is also prominent and there is
some capability of deceit for personal ends, though the
green is beginning to divide into two distinct qualities,
showing that cunning is gradually becoming adapta-
bility. Anger is still marked: affection, intellect and
devotion are more prominent and of a higher quality.
The colours as a whole are more clearly defined and
distinctly brighter, though none of them are perfectly
clear. The outline of the body is more defined and
regular.
Deueloped Man.-Undesirable qualities have almost M Y 1 u,.
entirely disappeared: across the top of the body there /eL
1 280-
2 I.
16
MY 1139.
1 L 1281-
2 83.
S G 0 313.
M P77.
THE ASTRAL BODY
is a strip of lilac, indicating spiritual aspiration: above
and enveloping the head there is a cloud of the brilliant
yellow of intellect: below that there is a broad belt
of the blue of devotion: then across the trunk there
is a still wider belt of the rose of affection, and in the
lower part of the body a large amount of the green
of adaptability and sympathy finds its place. The
colours are bright. luminous, in clearly marked bands,
the outline is well defined, and the whole astral body
conveys the impression of being orderly and under
perfect control.
Although we are not in this book dealing with the
mental body. yet it should be mentioned that as a
man develops, his astral body more and more resembles
his mental body, until it becomes little more than a
reflection of it in the grosser matter of the astral plane.
This, of course, indicates that the man has his desires
thoroughly under the control of the mind and is no
longer apt to be swept away by surges of emotion.
Such a man will no doubt be subject to occasional
irritability, and to undesirable cravings of various
sorts, but h. knows enough now to repress these lower
_
manifestations and not to yield to them.
At a still later stage the mental body itselt becomes
a reflection of the causal body. since the man now
learns to follow solely the promptings of the higher
self, and to guide his reason exclusively by them.
Thus the mind body and the astral body of an
Arhat would have very little characteristic colour of
their own, but would be reproductions of the causal
body in so far as their lower octaves could express
it. They have a lovely iridescence,a sort of opalescent,
mother-of-pearl effect, which is far beyond either
description or representation.
A developed man has five rates of vibration in his
astral body: an ordinary man shows at least nine
rates, with a mixture of various shades in addition.
Many people have 50 or 100 rates, the whole surface
being broken up into a multiplicity of little whirlpools
and cross-currents. all battling one against another
COLOURS 17
in mad confusion. This is the result of unnecessary
emotion and worries, the ordinary person of the
West being a mass of these, through which much of
his strength is frittered away.
An astral body which vibrates fifty ways at once
is not only ugly but also a serious annoyance. It
may be compared to a physical body suffering from
an aggravated form of palsy, with all its muscles
jerking simultaneously in different directions. Such
astral effects are contagious and affect all sensitive
persons who approach, communicating a painful sense
of unrest and worry. It is just because millions of
people are thus unnecessarily agitated by all sorts
of foolish desires and feelings that it is so difficult
for a sensitive person to live in a great city or move
amongst crowds. The perpetual astral disturbances
may even react through the etheric double and set
up nervous diseases.
The centres of inflammation in the astral body are 1 L 1 28..-
to it what boils are to the physical body-not only 29
1
•
acutely uncomfortable, but also weak spots through
which vitality leaks away. They also offer practically
no resistance to evil influences, and prevent good
influences from being of profit. This condition is
painfully common: the remedy is to eliminate worry,
fear and annoyance. The student of occultism must
not have personal feelings that can be affected under
any circumstances whatever.
Only a young child has a white or comparatively 1 L 1 206.
colourless aura, the colours beginning to show only ~~ ~~ ..~II.
as the qualities develop. The astral body of a child 2 1/.
is often a most beautiful object-pure and bright in
its colours, free from the stains of sensuality, avarice,
ill-will and selfishness. In it may also be seen lying
latent the germs and tendencies brought over from his
last life (see p. 2Il), some of them evil, some good, and
thus the possibilities of the child's future life may be
seen.
The yellow of intellect, found always near the head, M v I 123-
is the origin of the idea of the nimbus or glory round U4·
18 THE ASTRAL BODY
MY 196.
M VI 97-
98.
T B 057.
I L II 1]6.
the head of a saint, since this yellow is much the
most conspicuous of the colours of the astral body,
and the one most easily perceived by a person on the
verge of clairvoyance. Sometimes, owing to the
unusual activity of the intellect, the yellowmay become
visible even in physical matter, so as to be perceptible
to ordinary physical sight.
We have already seen that the astral body has a
certain normal arrangement, into which its various
portions tend to group themselves. A sudden rush
::%
h91. of passion or feeling, however, may temporarily force
15.5. 15"- the whole, or almost the whole, of the matter in an
I L II 1]6. astral body to vibrate at a certain rate, thus producing
quite striking results. All the matter of the astral
body is swept about as if by a violent hurricane, so
that for the time being the colours become very much
mixed. Coloured examples of this phenomenon are
given in Man Visible and .Invisible:-
Plate XI., p. g6, Sudden rush of Affection.
Plate XII., p. 98, Sudden rush of Devotion.
Plate XIII., p. 100, Intense Anger.
Plate XIV., p. 103, Shock of Fear.
In the case of a sudden wave of pure affection,when,
for example, a mother snatches up her baby and covers
it with kisses, the whole astral body in a moment is
thrown into a violent agitation, and the original
colours are for the time almost obscured.
Analysis discovers four separate effects:-
(1) Certain coils or vortices of vivid colour are to
be seen, well-defined and solid-looking, and glowing
with an intense light from within. Each of these is
in reality a thought-form of intense affection,generated
within the astral body, and about to be poured forth
from it towards the object of the feeling. The whirling
clouds of living light are indescribably lovely, though
difficult to depict.
(2) The whole astral body is crossed by horizontal
pulsating lines of crimson light, even more difficult
to represent, by reason of the exceeding rapidity of
their motion.
COLOURS
(3) A kind of film of rose-colour covers the surface
of the whole astral body, so that all within is seen
through it, as through tinted glass.
(4) A sort of crimson flush fills the entire astral
body, tinging to some extent the other hues, and here
and there condensing itself into irregular floating
wisps, like half-formed clouds.
This display would probably last only a few seconds,
and then the body would rapidly resume its normal
condition, the various grades of matter sorting them-
selves again into their usual zones by their specific
gravities. Yet every such rush of feeling adds a little
to the crimson in the higher part of the oval and makes
it a little easier for the astral body to respond to the
next wave of affection which may come.
Similarly, a man who frequently feels high devotion
soon comes to have a large area of blue in hi
s astral
body. The effects of such impulses are thus cumula-
tive: and in addition the radiation of vivid vibrations
of love and joy produce good influences on others.
With the substitution of blue for crimson, a sudden M Y 1 98.
access of devotion, surging over a nun engaged in
contemplation, produces an almost identical etlect.
In the case of intense anger, the ordinary background M V 1 100-
of the astral body is obscured by coils or vortices of 101.
heavy, thunderous masses of sooty blackness, lit up
from within by the lurid glare of active hatred. Wisps
of the same dark cloud are to be seen defiling the whole
astral body, while the fiery arrows of uncontrolled
anger shoot among them like flashes of lightning.
These terrible flashes are capable of penetrating other
astral bodies like swords and thus inflicting injury upon
other people.
In this instance, as in the others, each outburst M Y 1 73:
of rage would predispose the matter of the entire astral ;;Zs 11 1.5-
body to respond somewhat more readily than before •
to these very undesirable vibrations.
A sudden shock of terror will in an instant suffuse M Y 1 ICI.J
the whole body with a curious livid grey mist, while
horizontal lines of the same hue appear, but vibrating
THE ASTRAL BODY
with such violence as to be hardly recognisable as
separate lines. The result is indescribably ghastly:
all light fades out for the time from the body and the
whole grey mass quivers helplessly like a jelly.
T B '7. A flood of emotion does not Irreatly dect the mental
body, though for a time it may render it almost
impossible for any activity from the mental body to
come through into the physical brain, because the
astral body, which acts as a bridge between the mental
body and the brain, is vibrating so entirely at one
rate as to be incapable of conveying any undulation
which is not in hannony with it.
AI Y 1 10", The above are examples of the effects of sudden
and temporary outbursts of feeling. There are other
somewhat similar effects of a more permanent character
produced by certain dispositions or types of character.
M Y 1 106. Thus, when an ordinary man falls in love, the astral
body is so completely transformed as to make it
scarcely recognisable as belonging to the same person.
MY 1107. Selfishness, deceit and avarice vanish, and the lowest
part of the oval is filled with a large development of
animal passions. The green of adaptability has been
replaced by the peculiar brownish-green of jealousy,
and the extreme activity of this feeling is shown by
bright scarlet flashes of anger which permeate it. But
the undesirable changes are more than counterbalanced
by the splendid band of crimson which fills so large
a part of the oval. This is, for the time, a dominant
characteristic, and the whole astral body glows with
its light. Under its influence the general muddiness
of the ordinary astral body has disappeared, and the
hues are ali brilliant and clearly marked, good and bad
alike. It is an intensification of the life in various
directions. The blue of devotion is also distinctly
improved, and even a touch of pale violet appears at
the summit of the ovoid, indicating a capacity of
response to a really high and unselfish ideal. The
yellow of intellect, however, has entirely vanished for
the time-a fact which the cynical might consider as
characteristic of the condition I
COLOURS 2I
The astral body of an irritable man usually shows a M v 1 109.
broad band of scarlet as a prominent feature, and, in
addition, the whole astral body is covered with little
floating flecks of scarlet, somewhat like notes of
interrogation.
In the case of a miser,avarice, selfishness, deceitand M V 1 J 10-
adaptability are naturally intensified, but sensuality m.
is diminished. The most remarkable change, how-
ever, is the curious series of parallel horizontal lines
across the oval, giving the impression of a cage.
The bars are a deep brown in colour, almost burnt
sienna.
The vice of avarice seems to have the effect of
completely arresting development for the time, and
it is very difficult to shake off when once it has gained
a finn hold.
Deep depression produces an effect in grey, instead M Y 1 UI.
of brown, very similar to that of the miser. The
result is indescribably gloomy and depressing to the
observer. No emotional condition is more infectious
than the feeling of depression.
In the case of a non-intellectual man whois definitely M v 1 u3-
religious, the astral body assumes a characteristic U4·
appearance. A touch of violet suggests the possibility
of response to a high ideal. The blue of devotion is
unusually well developed, but the yellow of intellect
is scanty. There is a fair proportion of affection and
adaptability, but more than the average of sensuality,
and deceit and selfishness are also prominent. The
colours are irregularly distributed, melting into one
another, and the outline is vague, indicating the
vaguenessof the devotional man's conceptions.
Extreme sensuality and the devotional temperament
are frequently seen in association: perhaps because
these types of men live chie1ly in their feelings, being
governed by them instead of trying to control them
by reason.
A great contrast is shown by a man of a scientific M v 1 114.
type. Devotion is entirely absent, sensuality is much us·
below the average, but the intellect is developed to
THE ASTRAL BODY
an abnormal degree. Affection and adaptability are
small in quantity and poor in quality. A good deal
of selfishness and avarice is present and also some
jealousy. A huge cone of bright orange in the midst
of the golden yellow of intellect indicates pride and
ambition in connection with the knowledge that has
been acquired. The scientific and orderly habit of
mind causes the arrangement of the colours to fall
into regular bands, the lines of demarcation being
quite definite and clearly marked.
The student is urged to study for himself the admir-
able book from which the above information is taken,
this being one of the most valuable of the many
works produced by that great and gifted writer-
Bishop C. W. Leadbeater.
As we have been dealing here with colours in
the astral body, it may be mentioned that the means
of communication with the elementals, which are
associated so closely with man's astral body, is by
sounds and colours. Students may recollect obscure
allusions now and again to a language of colours,
and the fact that in ancient Egypt sacred manu-
scripts were written in colours, mistakes in copying
being punished with death. To elementals, colours are
as intelligible as words are to men.
CHAPTER IV
FUNCTIONS
THE functions of the astral body may be roughly
grouped under three headings :-
I. To make sensation possible.
2. To serve as a bridge between mind and physical
matter.
3. To act as an independent vehicle of conscious-
ness and action.
We will deal with these three functions in sequence.
When man is analysed into" principles," i.e., into A W 105.
modes of manifesting life, the four lower principles, " 10-11.
sometimes termed the" Lower Quaternary," are:-
Physical Body.
Etheric Body
Prana, or Vitality.
K~ma, or Desire.
The fourth principle, Kama, is the life manifesting
in the astral body and conditioned by it: its character-
istic is the attribute of feeling, which in rudimentary
form is sensation, and in complex form emotion, with
many grades in between these two. This is sometimes
summed up as desire, that which is attracted or repelled
by objects, according as they give pleasure or pain.
KAma thus includes feelings of every kind, and 5 P 17-18.
might be described as the passional and emotional A W 1°5·
nature. It comprises all animal appetites, such as
hunger, thirst, sexual desire: all passions, such as
the lower forms of love. hatred, envy, jealousy; it
is the desire for sentient existence. for experience of
material joys-" the lust of the flesh, the lust of the
eyes, the pride of life."
KAma is the brute in us. the .. ape and tiger" of
Tennyson. the force which most avails to keep us
THE ASTRAL BODY
S C 348.
A W 231.
S P 18.
S S .~9.
A IV 89.
S C 310.
bound to earth and to sLlle in us all higher longings
by the illusions of sense. It is the most material in
man's nature, and is the one that binds him fast to
earthly life. .. It is not molecularly constituted
matter, least of all the human body, Sthula Sharira,
that is the grossest of all our' principles,' but verily
the middle principle, the real animal centre; whereas
our body is but its shell, the irresponsible factor. and
medium through which the beast in us acts all its
life" (Secret Doctrine, I., 280-1).
S C 30S-307. K1ma or Desire is also described as a reflection or
lower aspect of Atml or Will, the distinction being
that Will is Self-determined, whereas Desire is moved
to activity by attractions to or repulsionsfromsurround-
ing objects. Desire is thus Will discrowned, the
captive, the slave of matter.
Another way of regarding Klma has been well
expressed by Mr. Ernest Wood in his illuminating
book Tlu Seven Rays: KAma "means all desire.
And desire is the outward-turned aspect of love, the
love of the things of the three worlds; while love
proper is love of life and love of the divine, and belongs
to the higher or inward-turned self."
For our purposes in this book desire and emotion
are frequently used as practically synonymous:
strictly, however, emotion is the product of desire
and intellect.
The astral body is often known as the KAma Rfipa :
and sometimes, in the older nomenclature, as the
Animal Soul.
Impacts from without, striking on the physical
body, are conveyed as vibrations by the agency of
Prana or Vitality, but they would remain as vibrations
only, merely motion on the physical plane, did not
Kama, the principle of sensation, translate the vibration
into feeling. Thus pleasure and pain do not arise
until the astral centre is reached. Hence Kama
joined to Prana is spoken of as the "breath of life,"
the vital sentient principle spread over every particle
of the body.
FUNCTIONS
It appears that certain organs of the physical body S P 35·
are specifically associated with the workings of KAma :
among these are the liver and the spleen.
It may be noted here that KAma, or desire, is just M v 1 48-
beginning to be active in the mineral kingdom, where !9ClZ3-124:
it expresses itself as chemical affinity. 128.
In the vegetable kingdom it is, of course, much
more developed, indicating a far greater capacity of
utilising lower astral matter. Students of botany are
aware that likes and dislikes, i.e., desire, are much
more prominent in the vegetable world than in the
mineral. and that many plants exhibit a great deal of
ingenuity and sagacity in attaining their ends.
Plants are quick to respond to loving care and are H 5 11 318-
distinctly affected by man's feelings towards them. 331
•
They delight in and respond to admiration: they are
also capable of individual attachments, as well as of
anger and dislike.
Animals are capable to the fullest possible extent M VI 49"".50,
of experiencing the lower desires, though the capacity
for the higher desires is more limited. Nevertheless
it exists, and in exceptional cases an animal is capable
of manifesting an exceedingly high quality of affection
or devotion.
Passing now to the second function of the astral
body-to act as a bridge between mind and physical
matter-we'note that an impact on the physical senses s 5 ~Q: 86.
is transmitted inwards by Prana, becomes a sensation If:t~~z­
by the action of the sense-centres, which are situated in 103.
Ka.ma,and is perceived by Manas, or Mind. Thus, with-
out the general action through the astral body there
would be no connection between the external world
and the mind of man, no connection between physical
impacts and the perception of them by the mind.
Conversely, whenever we think, we set in motion M V 14.
the mental matter within us; the vibrations thus
generated are transferred to the matter of our astral
body. the astral matter affects the etheric matter,
this, in tum, acting on the dense physical matter, the
grey matter of the brain.
26 THE ASTRAL BODY
.If W 102- The astral body is thus veritably a bridge between
1°~'2..9-250. our physical and our mental life, serving as a trans-
mitter of vibrations both from physical to mental
and from mental to physical, and is, in fact, principally
developed by this constant passage of vibrations to
and fro.
S C 2..8-2"9. In the course of the evolution of man's astral body,
there are two distinct stages: the astral body has first
to be developed to a fairly high point as a transmitting
vehicle: then it has to be developed as an independent
body, in which the man can function on the astral plane.
S P 18. In man, the normal brain-intelligence is produced
by the union of K~a with Manas, or Mind, this
S P 35· union being often spoken of as K~a-Manas. K~a­
Manas is described by H. P. Blavatsky as" the rational,
but earthly or physical intellect of man, encased in,
and bound by, matter, and therefore subject to the
influence of the latter "; this is the "lower self"
which, acting on this plane of illusion, imagines itself
to be the real Self or Ego, and thus falls into what
Buddhist philosophy terms the .. heresy of separate-
ness."
S R 1..8. KAma-Manas, that is Manas with desire, has also
been picturesquely described as Manas taking an
interest in external things.
c p 55-36- It may, in passing, be noted that a clear understand-
ing of the fact that K~-Manasbelongs to the human
personality, and that it functions in and through the
physical brain, is essential to a just grasp of the process
of reincarnation, and is sufficient of itself to show how
there can be no memory of previous lives so long as
the consciousness cannot rise beyond the brain-
mechanism, this mechanism, together with that of
Kama, being made afresh each life, and therefore
having no direct touch with previous lives.
S p 34. Manas, of itself, could not affect the molecules of
the physical brain cells: but, when united to Kama,
it is able to set the physical molecules in motion, and
thus produce .. brain-consciousness," including the
brain memory and all the functions of the human
FUNCTIONS
mind, as we ordinarily know it. It is, of course, not D A II.
the Higher Manas, but the Lower Manas (i.e., matter
of the four lower levels of the mental plane), which
is associated with Kama. In Western psychology,
this Kama-Manas becomes a part of what in that
system is termed Mind. Kama-Manas, forming the
link between the higher and lower nature in man,
is the battleground during life, and also, as we shall
see later, plays an important part in post-mortem
existence.
So close is the association of Manas and Kama that S S 30 : 89.
the Hindus speak of man having five sheaths, one of A W 231•
which is for all manifestations of working intellect
and desire. These five are:-
I Anandamayakosha the Bliss sheath Buddhi
2 Vignanamayakosha the Discrirninat- Higher Manas
ing sheath
3 Manomayakosha ... the sheath of Lower Manas
Intellect and and KAma
Desire
4 Pranamayakosha... the Vitality Prana
sheath
5 Annamayakosha ... the Food sheath Dense physical
body
In the division used by Manu, the prlnamayakosha S S bg.
and the annamayakosha are classed together, and
known as the Bhutatman or elemental self, or body
of action.
The vigdnamayakosha and the manomayakosha S S 70-'1••
he terms the body of feeling, giving it the name Jiva :
he defines it as that body in which the Knower, the
Kshetragna, becomes sensible of pleasures and of
pains.
In their external relations, the vignanamayakosha
and the manomayakosha, especially the manomaya-
kosha, are related to the Deva world. The Devas
are said to have" entered into" man, the reference
being to the presiding deities of the elements (see
p. 188). Those presiding deities give rise to sensations
in man, changing the contacts from without into
S P28.
S P29.
1/ B 77.
S P30.
THE ASTRAL BODY
sensations, or the recognition of the contacts, from
within, this being essentially a Deva action. Hence
the link with all these lower Devas, which, when
supreme control has been obtained, makes man the
master in every region of the Universe.
Manas, or mind, being unable, as said above, to
affect the gross particles of the brain, projects a part
of itself, i.e., lower Manas, which clothes itself with
astral matter, and then with the help of etheric matter
permeates the whole nervous system of the child before
birth. The projection from Manas is often spoken of
as its reflection, its sliadow, its ray, and is known also
by other allegorical names. H. P. Blavatsky writes
(Key to Theosophy, p. IS,..): "Once imprisoned, or
incarnate, their (the Manas) essence becomes dual;
that is to say, the rays of the eternal divine Mind,
considered as individual entities, assume a two-fold
attribute, which is (a) their essential, inherent, charac-
teristic, heaven-aspiring mind (higher Manas), and
(b) the human quahty of thinking, of animal cogitation,
rationalised owing to the superiority of the human
brain, the Kama-tending or lower Manas."
Lower Manas is thus engulfed in the quaternary,
and may be regarded as clasping Kama with one hand,
whilst with the other it retains its hold on its father,
the higher Manas. Whether it will be dragged down
by kama altogether and be tom away from the triad
(!tma..buddhi-manas) to which, by its nature it belongs,
or whether it will triumphantly carry back to its
source the purified experiences of its earth life-that
is the life-problem set and solved in each successive
incarnation. This point will be considered further in
the chapters on After-Deaib Life.
Kama thus supplies the animal and passional
elements; lower Manas rationalises these and adds
the intellectual faculties. In man these two principles
are interwoven during life and rarely act separately.
Manas may be regarded as the flame, Kama and the
physical brain as the wick and fuel which feed the
flame. The egosof all men, developed or undeveloped,
} Immortal
Conditionally Immortal.
IMortal.
FUNCTIONS
are of the same essence and substance: that which
makes of one a great man, and of another a vulgar,
silly person, is the quality and make-up of the physical
body. and the ability of the brain and body to transmit
and express the light of the real inner man.
In brief, Ka.ma-Manas is the personal self of man: 5 P 33-33:
Lower Manas gives the individualising touch that 36.
makes the personality recognise itself as II I." Lower
Manas is a ray from the immortal Thinker, illuminating
a personality. It is Lower Manas which yields the
last touch of delight to the senses and to the animal
nature, by conferring the power of anticipation,
memory and imagination.
Whilst it would be out of place in this book to 5 P 49'"51.
encroach too far into the domain of Manas and the
mental body. yet it may help the student at this
stage to add that freewill resides in Manas, Manas
being the representative of Mahat, the Universal
Mind. In physical man. the Lower Manas is the agent
of freewill. From Manas comes the feeling of liberty,
the knowledge that we can rule ourselves, that the
higher nature can master the lower. To identify the
consciousness with the Manas, instead of with Kama, is
thus an important step on the road to self-mastery.
The very struggle of Manas to assert itself is the
best testimony that it is by nature free. It is the
presence and power of the ego which enables a man to
choose between desires and to overcome them. As
the lower Manas rules Kama, the lower quaternary
takes its rightful position of subservience to the
higher triad-e-atma-buddhi-manas.
We may classify the principles of man in the follow-
ing manner:-
{
Atml
I Buddhi
Higher Manas
2 Kama-Manas
{
Prana
3 Etheric Double
Dense Body
THE ASTRAL BODY
We come now to consider the third function of the
astral body-as an independent vehicle of conscious-
ness and action. The full treatment of this portion
of our subject-the use, development, possibilities
and limitations of the astral body on its own plane-
will be dealt with step by step in most of the succeeding
chapters. For the present it will suffice to enumerate
very briefly the principal ways in which an astral
bodycan be used as an independent vehicleof conscious-
ness. These are as follows:-
I. During ordinary waking consciousness, '.e., while
the physical brain and senses are wide-awake, the
powers of the astral senses may be brought into action.
Some of these powers correspond to the senses and
powers of action possessed by the physical body.
They will be dealt with in the next chapter, on ChaII-
".ms.
2. During sleepor trance it is possible for the astral
body to separate itself from the physical body and to
move about and function freely on its own plane.
This will be dealt with in the chapter on Sleep-Life.
3. It is possible so to develop the powers of the
astral body that a man may consciously and delibe-
rately, at any time that he chooses, leave the physical
body and pass with unbroken consciousness into the
astral body. This will be dealt with in the chapter
on COfttinuity of ConsciONSfWS.
4. After physical death the consciousness withdraws
itself into the astral body, and a life, varying greatly
in intensity and duration, dependent upon a number
of factors, may be led on the astral plane. This will
be dealt with in the chapters on After-Death Life.
These divisions of our subject, with numerous
ramifications, will constitute the major portion of the
remainder of this treatise.
CHAPTER V
CHAKRAMS
THE word Chakram is Sanskrit, and means literally 1 L 1443.
a wheel, or revolving disc. It is used to denote what C 17-18•
are often called Force-Centres in man. There are such
Chakrams in all man's vehicles, and they are points of
connection at which force Bows from one vehicle to
another. They are also intimately associated with
the powers or senses of the various vehicles.
The Chakrams of the etheric body are fully described
in TheEthe1ic Double, and the student is referred to that
work, as a study of the etheric Chakrams will materi-
ally assist him to understand the astral Chakrams.
The etheric Chakrams are situated in the surface 1 L 1 443-
of the etheric double and are usually denoted by the 444·
name of the physical organ to which they correspond.
They are:-
I. Base of Spine Chakram.
2. Navel Chakram.
3. Spleen Chakram.
4. Heart Chakram.
S. Throat Chakram.
6. Between the Eyebrows Chakram.
7. Top of the Head Chakram.
There are also three lower Chakrams, but as these
are used only in certain schools of .. black magic,"!
we are not concerned with them here.
The astral Chakrams, which are frequently in the 1 L 1 451.
interior of the etheric double, are vortices in four
dimensions (see Chapter XVII!.), thus having an
extension in a direction quite different from the etheric :
consequently, though they correspond to the etheric
Chakrams, they are by no means always coterminous
with them, though some part is always coincident.
1 "Black" has no relation to colour of skin.
1 L 1 'Uz.
1 L 1453.
H5 1 64·
1 L 1461:
347·
1L14'3.
THE ASTRAL BODY
The astral Chakrarns are given the same names as
those in the etheric douoie, and their functions are
as follows:-
I. Base of Spine Chakram.-This is the seat of the
Serpent Fire, Kundalini, a force which exists on all
planes and by means of which the rest of the Chakrams
are aroused.
Originally, the astral body was an almost inert mass,
possessing but the vaguest consciousness, with no
definite power of doing anything, and with no clear
knowledge of the world surrounding it. The first
thing that happened was the awakening of Kundalini
at the astral level.
2. Nave/, Chakram.-Kundalini having been
awakened in the first Chakram, it moved to the navel
Chakram, which it vivified, thus awakening in the
astral body the power of feeling-a sensitiveness to
all sorts of influences, though without as yet anything
like the definite comprehension that comes from seeing
and hearing.
3. SpleetJ Chak,am.-Kundalini then moved to the
spleen Chakram, and through it vitalised the whole
astral body, this Chakram having as one of its functions
the absorption of Prana, the Vitality Force, which
also exists on all planes. The vivification of the spleen
Chakram enables the man to travel in his astral body
consciously, though with only a vague conception as
yet of what he encounters on his journeys.
4. Hearl Chakram.-This Chakram enables the man
to comprehend and sympathise with the vibrations
of other astral entities, so that he can instinctively
understand their feelings.
S. Throat Chakram.-This Chakram confers the
power in the astral world which corresponds to hearing
in the physical world.
6. Between the Eyebrows Chak,am.-This Chakram
confers the power to perceive definitely the shape
and nature of astral objects, instead of merely vaguely
sensing their presence.
Associated with this Chakram appears alsothe power
CHAKRAMS 33
of magnifying at will the minutest physical or astral
particle to any desired size, as though by a microscope.
This power enables an occult investigator to perceive
and study molecules, atoms, etc. The full control of this
faculty, however, belongs rather to the causal body.
The power of magnification is one of the siddhis c ..s.
described in Oriental books as .. the power of making
oneself large or small at will." The description is
apposite, because the method employed is that of
using a temporary visual mechanism of inconceivable
minuteness. Conversely, minification of vision may
be obtained by the construction of a temporary and
enormously larger visual mechanism.
The power of magnification is quite distinct from 0 C App. IX.
the faculty of functioning on a higher plane, just as
the power of an astronomer to observe planets and
stars is quite a different thing from the ability to move
or function amongst them.
In the Hindu sutras it is stated that meditation in 1 Ya...
a certain part of the tongue will confer astral sight.
The statement is a .. blind," the reference being to
the pituitary body, situated just over this part of the
tongue.
7. Top r~the Head Chakram.-This Chakram rounds
off and completes the astral life, endowing the man
with the perfection of his faculties.
There appear to be two methods in which this I L 454·
Chakram works.
In one type of man, the sixth and seventh Chakrams
both converge upon the pituitary body, this body being
for this type practically the only direct link between
the physical and the higher planes.
In another type of man, however, while the sixth
Chakram is still attached to the pituitary body, the
seventh Chakram is bent or slanted until its vortex
coincides with the pineal gland. In people of this
type the pineal gland is thus vivified and made into
a line of communication directly with the lower mental,
without apparently passing through the intermediate
astral plane in the ordinary way.
THE ASTRAL BODY
1 L 1 392- In the physical body, as we know, there are special-
39~: 45.5- ised organs for each sense, the eye for seeing, the ear
1.5i 11 210- for hearing, and so on. In the astral body, however,
212 this . t th
C 14 : 16-18. 15 no e case.
The particles of the astral body are constantly
flowing and swirling about like those of boiling water:
consequently, there are no special particles which
remain continuously in any of the Chakrams. On
the contrary, all the particles of the astral body pass
through each of the Chakrams.
Each Chakram has the function of awakening a
certain power of response in the particles which flow
through it, one Chakram the power of sight, another
that of hearing, and so on.
Consequently, anyone astral sense is not, strictly
speaking, localised or confined to any particular part
of the astral body. It is rather the whole of the
particles of the astral body which possessthe powerof
response. A man, therefore, who has developed astral
sight uses any part of the matter of his astral body in
order to see, and so can see equally well objects in
front, behind, above, below,or to either side. Similarly
with all the other senses. In other words, the astral
senses are equally active in all parts of the body.
1191~. It is not easy to describe the substitute for language
by means of which ideas are communicated astrally.
Sound in the ordinary sense of the word is not possible
in the astral world-in fact it is not possible even in
the higher part of the physical world. It would also
not be correct to say that the language of the astral
world is thought-transference: the most that could
be said is that it is the transference of thoughts formu-
lated in iii. particular way.
In the mental world a thought is instantaneously
transmitted to the mind of another without any form
of words: therefore in the mental world language
does not in the least matter. But astral communica-
tion lies, as it were, half-way between the thought-
transference of the mental world and the concrete
speech of the physical, and it is still necessary to
CHAKRAMS 3S
formulate the thought in words. For this exchange
it is therefore necessary that the two parties should
have a language in common.
The astral and etheric Chakrams are in very close 1 L 1472.
correspondence; but between them, and interpene-
trating them in a manner which is not readily describ-
able, there is a sheath or web of closely woven texture,
composed of a single layer of physical atoms much
compressed and permeated by a special fonn of Prana,
The divine life which normally descends from the
astral body to the physical is so attuned as to pass
through this shield with perfect ease, but it is an
absolute barrier to all the forces which cannot use
the atomic matter ofboth planes. The web is a natural
protection to prevent a premature opening up Jf
communication between the planes, a development
which could lead to nothing but injury.
It is this which normally prevents clear recollection 1 L I 47..•
of the sleep-life, and which also causes the momentary
unconsciousness which always occurs at death. But
for this provision the ordinary man could at any
moment be brought by any astral entity under the
Influence of forces with which he could not possibly
cope. He would be liable to constant obsession by
astral entities desirous of seizing his vehicles.
The web may be injured in several ways :-
I. A great shock to the astral body, e.g, a sudden
fright, may rend apart this delicate organism and,
as it is commonly expressed, drive the man mad.
A tremendous outburst of anger may also produce I L I 47~
the same effect, as may any other very strong emotion
of an evil character which produces a kind of explosion
in the astral body.
2. The use of alcohol or narcotic drugs, including
tobacco. These substances contain matter which on
breaking up voJatilises, some of it passing from the
physical to the astral plane. Even tea and coffee
contain this matter, but only in infinitesimal quantities,
so that only long-continued abuse of them would
produce the effect.
36 THE ASTRAL BODY
These constituents rush through the Chakrams in
the opposite direction to that for which they are
1L1475. intended, and in doing this repeatedly they seriously
injure and finally destroy the delicate web.
This deterioration or destruction may take place
in two ways, according to the type of person concerned
and to the proportion of the constituents in his etheric
and astral bodies.
In one type of person the rush of volatilising
matter actually burns away the web, and therefore
leaves the door open to all sorts of irregular forces
and evil influences. Those affected in this way fall
into delirium tremens, obsession or insanity.
In the other type of person, the volatile constituents,
in flowing through, somehow harden the atom so that
its pulsation is to a large extent checked and crippled,
and it is no long- capable of being vitalised by the
particular type ot Prana which welds it into a web.
This results in a kind of ossification of the web, so
that instead of too much coming through from one
1 L 1 476. plane to another, we have very little of any kind
coming through. Such subjects tend to a general
deadening down of their qualities, resulting in gross
materialism, brutality and animalism, in the loss of
all finer feelings and of the power to control themselves.
1 L 1 477. All impressions which pass from one plane to the
other are intended to come only through the atomic
sub-planes, but when the deadening process takes
place it infects not only other atomic matter, but
even matter of the second and third sub-planes, so
that the only communication between the astral and
the etheric is from the lower sub-planes, upon which
only unpleasant and evil influences are to be found.
The consciousness of the ordinary man cannot yet
use pure atomic matter, either of the physical or astral,
and therefore there is normally for him no possibility
1 L 1 478. of conscious communication at will between the two
planes. The proper way to obtain it is to purify the
vehicles until the atomic matter in both is fully vivified,
so that all communications between the two may pass
CHAKRAMS
by that road. In that case the web retains to the
fullest degree its position and activity, and yet is no
longer a barrier to the perfect communication, while
it still continues to prevent close contact with the
lower and undesirable sub-planes.
3. The third way in which the web may be injured
is that known in spiritualistic parlance as .. sitting
for development,"
It is quite possible, in fact very common, for a man
to have his astral Chakrams well developed, so that
he is able to function freely on the astral plane. and
yet he may recollect nothing of his astral life when
he returns to waking consciousness. With this pheno-
menon and its explanation we shall deal more appro-
priately in the Chapter on Dreams.
37
1 L 1 474.
1 L 1456.
S C 260.
CHAPTER VI
KUNDALINI
THE student is referred to The Etheric Double for a
description of Kundalini with special reference to the
etheric body and its Chakrams. Here we are con-
cerned with it in connection with the astral body.
1 L 1 461• The three known forces which emanate from the
Logos are:-
I. Fohat: which shows itself as electricity, heat,
light, motion, etc.
2. Prana : which shows itself as vitality.
3. Kundalini: also known as the Serpent Fire.
Each of these three forces exists on all planes of
which we know anything. So far as is known, no
one of the three is convertible into any of the others:
they each remain separate and distinct.
1 L 146:z. Kundalini is called in The Voice of the Silence,
II the Fiery Power," and" the World's Mother." The
first, because it appears like liquid fire as it rushes
through the body: and the course it should follow
is a spiral one, like the coils of a serpent. It is called
the World's Mother because through it our various
vehicles may be vivified, so that the higher worlds
may open before us in succession.
Its home in man's body is the Chakram at the base
of the spine, and for the ordinary man it lies there
unawakened and unsuspected during the whole of his
life. It is far better for it to remain dormant until
1 L 1 463. the man has made definite moral development, until
his will is strong enough to control it and his thoughts
pure enough to enable him to face its awakening
without injury. No one should experiment with it
without definite instruction from a teacher who
thoroughly understands the subject, for the dangers
KUNDALINI 39
connected with it are very real and terribly serious.
Some of them are purely physical. Its uncontrolled
movement often produces intense physical pain, and
it may readily tear tissues and even destroy physical
life. It may also do permanent injury to vehicles
higher than the physical.
One very common effect of rousing it prematurely
is that it rushes downwards in the body instead of
upwards, and thus excites the most undesirable
passions-excites them and intensifies their effects to
such a degree that it becomes quite impossible for the
man to resist them, because a force has been brought
into play in whose presence he is quite helpless. Such
men become satyrs, monsters of depravity, the force
being beyond the normal human power of resistance. 1 L I 464.
They may probably gain certain supernormal powers,
but these will be such as will bring them into touch
with a lower order of evolution, with which humanity
is intended to hold no commerce, and to escape from
its thraldom may take more than one incarnation.
There is a school of black magic which purposely
uses this power in this way, in order that through it
may be vivified those lower Chakrams which are never
used by followers of the Good Law.
The premature unfoldment of Kundalini bas other
unpleasant possibilities. It intensifies everything in
the man's nature, and it reaches the lower and evil
qualities more readily than the good. In the mental
body, ambition is very readily aroused, and soon
swells to an incredibly inordinate degree. It would
probably bring with it a great intensification of 1 L J 46,.
intellect, accompanied by abnormal and satanic
pride, such as is quite inconceivable to the ordinary
man.
An uninstructed man who finds that Kundalini has
been aroused by accident should at once consult some
one who fully understands these matters.
The arousing of Kundalini-the method of doing
which is not publicly known-and the attempt to
pass it through the Chakrams-the order of which is
40 THE ASTRAL BODY
also deliberately concealed from the public-s-should
never be attempted except at the express suggestion
of a Master, who will watch over His pupil during the
various stages of the experiment.
The most solemn warnings arc given by experienced
occultists against in any way attempting to arouse
Kundalini, except under qualified tuition, because of
I L I 466. the real and great dangers involved. As is said in
the Hathayogapradipika: .. It gives liberation to
Yogis and bondage to fools" (III., 107).
I L r 467. In some cases Kundalini wakes spontaneously, so
that a dull glow is felt: it may even begin to move
of itself, though this is rare. In this latter case it
would be likely to cause great pain, as, since the
passages are not prepared for it, it would have to clear
its way by actually burning up a great deal of etheric
dross, which is necessarily a painful process. When
it thus awakes of itself or is accidentally aroused, it
I L I 468. usually tries to rush up the interior of the spine,
instead of following the spiral course into which the
occultist is trained to guide it. If it be possible. the
will should be set in motion to arrest its onward rush.
but if that proves to be impossible, as is most likely,
no alarm need be felt. It will probably rush out through
the head and escape into the surrounding atmosphere.
and it is likely that no harm will result beyond a slight
weakening. Nothing worse than a temporary loss
of consciousness need be apprehended. The worst
dangers are connected, not with its upwards rush. but
with its turning downwards and inwards.
Its principal iunction in connection with occult
development is that by being sent through the Chak-
rams ill the etheric body, it vivifies these Chakrams
and makes them available as gates of connection
between the physical and astral bodies. It is said
in The Voice of the Silence that when Kundalini
T L I 469. reaches the centre between the eyebrows and fully
vivifies it. it confers the power of hearing the voice
of the Master-which means, in this case. the voice
of the ego or higher self. The reason is that when
KUNDALINI
the pituitary body is brought into working order it
forms a perfect link with the astral vehicle, so that
through it all communications from within can be
received.
In addition, all the higher Chakrams have to be
awakened, in due course, and each must be made
responsive to all kinds of astral influences from the
various astral sub-planes. Most people cannot gain
this during the present incarnation, if it is the first
in whichthey have begun to take these matters seriously
in hand. Some Indians might succeed in doing so,
as their bodies are by heredity more adaptable than
most others: but it is for the majority of men the
work of a later Round altogether.
The conquest of Kundalini has to be repeated in
each incarnation, since the vehicles are new each time,
but after it has been once achieved these repetitions
will be an easy matter. Its action will vary with 1 L 1470.
different types of people. Some would see the higher
self rather than hear its voice. Also this connection
with the higher has many stages; for the personality
it means the influence of the ego: but for the ego
himself it means the power of the monad: and for
the monad in tum it means to become a conscious
expression of the Logos.
There does not appear to he any age limit with 1 L 1 411-s.
regard to the arousing of Kundalini: but physical
health is a necessity owing to the strain involved.
An ancient symbol was the thyrsus-that is, a staff 1 L 1 13(,.
with a pine-coneon its top. In India the same symbol
is found, but instead of the staff a stick of bamboo
with seven knots is used. In some modifications of
the mysteries a hollow iron rod, said to contain fire,
was used instead of the thyrsus. The staff, or stick, 1 L 1 131.
with seven knots represents the spinal cord, with its
seven Chakrams. The hidden tire is, of course.
Kundalini. The thyrsus was not only a symbol, but
also an object of practical use. It was a very strong
magnetic instrument, used by initiates to free the
astral body from the physical when they passed in
THE ASTRAL BODY
full consciousness to this higher life. The priest who
had magnetised it laid it against the spinal cord of
the candidate and gave him in that way some of his
own magnetism, to help him in that difficult life and
in the efiorts which lay before him.
T F:H.
H S 11 165.
T F 18.
CHAPTER VII
THOUGHT-FORMS
THE mental and astral bodies are those chiefly con- T F 17.
cerned with the production of what are called thought-
forms. The term thought-form is not wholly accurate,
because the forms produced may be composed of mental
matter, or, in the vast majority of cases, of both astral
and mental matter.
Although in this book we are dealing primarily with
the astral, and not with the mental body, yet thought-
forms, as just said, are, in a vast majority of cases,
both astral and mental. In order, therefore, to make
the subject intelligible, it is necessary to deal very
largely with the mental as well as with the astral
aspect of the subject.
A purely intellectual and impersonal thought-such T F 34-35.
as one concerned with algebra or geometry-would H S II 164 :
256•
be confined to mental matter. If on the other hand
the thought has in it something of selfish or personal
desire, it willdraw round itself astral matter in addition
to the mental. If, furthermore, the thought be of a
spiritual nature, if it betinged with love and aspiration
or deep and unselfish feeling, then there may also
enter in some of the splendour and glory of the buddhic
plane.
Every definite thought produces two effects: first,
a radiating vibration: second, a floating form.
The vibration set up in and radiating from the
mental body is accompanied with a play of colour
which has been described as like that in the spray of
a waterfall as the sunlight strikes it, raised to the
nIb degree of colour and vivid delicacy.
This radiating vibration tends to reproduce its own ~ ~ ;;-2t.
rate of mction in any mental body on which it may 171• 17
44 THE ASTRAL BODY
r B 54-56. impinge: •.e., to produce thoughts of the same type
as those from which the vibration originated. It
should be noted that the radiating vibration carries,
not the subject of the thought, but its character.
Thus, the waves of thought-emotion radiating from a
Hindu sitting rapt in devotion to Shri Krishna would
tend to stimulate devotional feeling in any who came
under its in1luence,. not necessarily towards Shri
Krishna, but, in the case of a Christian, to the Christ,
in the case of a Buddhist, to the Lord Buddha: and
so on.
r F 23-2.4. The power of the vibration to produce such effects
depends principally upon the clearness and definiteness
of the thought-emotion, as well, of course, as upon
the amount of force put into it.
r F 23. These radiating vibrations become less effective
in proportion to the distance from their source, though
it is probable that the variation is proportional to
the cube of the distance instead of (as with gravitation
and other physical forces) to the square, because of
the additional (fourth) dimension involved.
H S 11 257. The distance to which a thought-wave can radiate
effectively also depends upon the opposition with which
it meets. Waves in the lower types of astral matter
are usually soon deflected or overwhelmed by a
multitude of other vibrations at the same level, just
as a soft sound is drowned in the roar of a city.
r F 18. The second effect, that of a floating form, is caused
by the mental body throwing off a vibrating portion
of itself shaped by the nature of the thought. which
gathers round itself matter of the corresponding order
of fineness from the surrounding elemental essence
(see page 6) of the mental plane. This is a thought-
fonn pure and simple, being composed of mental
matter only.
L.d D .5.5. If made of the finer kinds of matter, it will be of
great power and energy, and may be used as a most
potent agent when directed by a strong and steady will.
T F 18-19, When the man directs his energy towards external
25· objects of desire, or is occupied with passional or
THOUGHT-FORMS 45
emotional activities, a similar process takes place in
his astral body: a portion of it is thrown off and
gathers round itself elemental essence of the astral
plane. Such thought-desire forms are caused by
Kama-Manas, the mind under the dominion of the
animal nature, Manas dominated by Kama.
Such a thought-desire form has for its body the
elemental essence, and for its animating soul, as it
were, the desire or passion which threw it forth.
Both these thought-desire forms, and also purdy
mental thought-forms, are called artificial elementals. T F. 20.
The vast majority of ordinary thought-forms are of
the former type, as few thoughts of ordinary men
and women are untinged with desire, passion or emo-
tion.
Both mental and astral elemental essence, which T F 2.5.
possess a half-intelligent life of their own, respond A P 88.
very readily to the influence of human thought and
desire: consequently every impulse sent out, either
from a man's mental body or from his astral body, is
immediately clothed in a temporary vehicle of elemental
essence. These artificial elementals thus become for T F 18.
the time a kind of living creature, entities of intense
activity animated by the one idea that generated them.
They are, in fact, often mistaken by untrained psychics
or clairvoyants for real living entities.
Thus, when a man thinks of a concrete object-a T B 50-.51.
book, house, landscape, etc.-he builds a tiny image
of the object in the matter of his mental body. This
image floats in the upper part of that body, usually
in front of the face of the man, and at about the level
of the eyes. It remains there as long as the man is
contemplating the object, and usually for a little time
afterwards, the length of life depending upon the
intensity and the clearness of the thought. The form
is quite objective and can be seen by another person
possessed of mental sight. If a man thinks of another
person he creates a tiny portrait in just the same way.
Thought-forms have been usefully compared to a T F 26.
Leyden jar (a vessel charged with static electricity). S G 0 24
6•
T F31.
K 16-17.
A P90.
T P 32.
T F 34.
THE ASTRAL BODY
the jar itself corresponding to the elemental essence
and the electric charge to the thought-emotion. And
just as a Leyden jar when it touches another object
discharges its stored electricity into that object, so
does an artificial elemental, when it strikes a mental
or astral body, discharge its stored mental and emo-
tional energy into that body.
The principles which underlie the production of all
thought-emotion forms are:-
I. Colour is determined by the quality of the
thought or emotion.
2. Formis determined by the nature of the thought
or emotion.
3. Clearness of Outline is determined by the
definiteness of the thought or emotion.
The life-period of a thought-form depends upon
(I) its initial intensity; (2) the nutriment afterwards
supplied to it by a repetition of the thought. either by
the generator or by others. Its life may be continu-
ally reinforced by this repetition, a thought which
is brooded over acquiring great stability of form. So
again thought-forms of similar character are attracted
to and mutually strengthen each other, making a form
of great energy and intensity.
F.nrthermore, such a thought-form appears to possess
instinctive desire to prolong its life, and will react on
its creator, tending to evoke from him renewal of the
feeling which created it. It will react in a similarI
though not so perfect, manner on any others with
whom it may come into contact.
The colours in which thought-forms express them-
selves are identical with the colours found in the aura,
vide pp. 11-12.
The brilliance and depth of the colours are usually
a measure of the strength and the activity of the
feeling.
For our present purpose we may classify thought-
forms into three kinds : (I) those connected solely
with their originator: (2) those connected with another
person: (3) those not definitely personal.
THOUGHT-FORMS 41
If a man's thought is about himself, or based on a T F :16.
personal feeling, as the vast majority of thoughts are, ~":I;~.96 :
the form will hover in the immediate neighbourhood 1 L 11 J4.s-
of its generator. At any time, then, when he is in a }tfii8-J9'
passive condition, his thoughts and feelings not being T B .53.
specifically occupied, his own thought-form will return .If P 88-89·
to him and discharge itself upon him. In addition,
each man also serves as a magnet to draw towards
himself the thought-forms of others similar to his own,
thus attracting towards himself reinforcements of
energy from outside. People who are becoming sen-
sitive have sometimes imagined, in such cases, that
they have been tempted by the" devil," whereas it is
their own thought-desire forms which are the case of
the "temptation." Long brooding over the same
subject may create a thought-form of tremendous
power. Such a form may last for many years and
have for a time all the appearance and powers of a
real living entity. Most men move through life
enclosed literally within a cage of their own building,
surrounded by masses of forms created by their
habitual thoughts. One important effect of this is T F 27.
that each man looks out upon the world through his
own thought-forms, and thus sees everything tinged
by them.
Thus a man's own thought-forms re-act upon him, K 17.
tending to reproduce themselves and thus setting up ~ ~.sli
definite habits of thought and feeling, which may be 101.
helpful if of a lofty character, but are often cramping
and a hindrance to growth, obscuring the mental
vision and facilitating the formation of prejudice and
fixed moods or attitudes which may develop into
definite vices.
As a Master has written: "Man is continually 0 Will.
peopling his current in space with a world of his own,
crowded with the offspring of his fancies, desires,
impulses and passions." These thought-forms remain
in his aura, increasing in Dumber and intensity, until
certain kinds of them so dominate his mental and
emotional life that the man rather answers to their
R 22.
MY 199.
T F 45.
THE ASTRAL BODY
impulse than decides anew: thus are habits, the outer
expression of his stored-up force, created, and thus is
character built.
Moreover, as each man leaves behind him a trail of
thought-forms, it follows that as we go along a street
we are walking amidst a sea of other men's thoughts.
If a man leaves his mind blank for a time, these
thoughts of others drift through it: if one happens
to attract his attention, his mind seizes upon it, makes
it its own, strengthening it by the addition of its
force, and then casts it out again to affect somebody
else. A man, therefore, is not responsible lor a thought
which floats into his mind, but he is responsible if
he takes it up, dwells upon it, and then sends it out
again strengthened.
An example of thought-forms is that of the shapeless
clouds of heavy blue which may often be seen rolling
along like wreaths of dense smoke over the heads of
the congregation of a church. In churches where the
level of spirituality is a low one, the minds of the men
may create rows of figures, representing their calcula-
tions of business deals or speculations, while the minds
of the women may create pictures of millinery, jewel-
lery, etc.
Hypnotism provides another example of thought-
forms. The operator may make a thought-form and
project it on to blank paper, where it may become
visible to his hypnotised subject: or he may make
the form so objective that the subject will see and feel
it as though it were an actual physical object. The
literature of hypnotism is full of such examples.
T F 3P-40 • If the thought-form is directed towards another
~ ~ II 96: person, it will go to that person. Either of two effects
1 t 11 145 : may then result. (I) If in the aura of the person con-
~rw 78-80. cerned there is material capable of responding sympa-
K 18. thetically to the vibration of the thought-form, then the
~ ~ ~~~t thought-form will remain near the person, or even in
his aura, and, as opportunity serves, automatically
discharge itself, thus tending to strengthen in the
person that particular rate of vibration. If the person
THOUGHT-FORMS 49
at whom a thought-form is aimed happens to be busy,
or already engaged in some definite train of thought,
the thought-form, being unable to discharge itself
into the man's mental body, which is already vibrating
at a certain determinate rate, hangs in the vicinity
until the man's mental body is sufficiently at rest to
permit its entrance, when it immediately discharges
itself.
In doing this it will display what appears like a very
considerable amount of intelligence and adaptability,
though really it is a force acting along the line of least
resistance-pressing steadily in one direction all the
time, and taking advantage of any channel that it can
find. Such elementals can, of course, be strengthened
and their life-period extended by repetition of the same
thought.
(2) If, on the other hand, there is in the person's
aura no matter capable of response, theQ the thought-
form cannot affect it at all. It will therefore rebound
from it, with a force proportional to the energy with
which it impinged upon it, and return to and strike
its creator.
Thus, for example, the thought of the desire for
drink could not enter the body of a purely temperate
man. It would strike upon his astral body, but it
could not penetrate and it would then return to the
sender.
The old saying that "Curses (to which might be
added blessings) come home to roost" conveys this
truth and explains cases where, as many have known,
evil thoughts directed to a good and highly-advanced
man affect such a man not at all, but re-act, sometimes
with terrible and devastating effect, on their creator.
Hence also the obvious corollary that a pure heart
and mind are the best protection against inimical
assaults of feeling and thought.
On the other hand, a thought-form of love and of LAD 58.
desire to protect, strongly directed to some beloved iI :'38-39-
object, acts as a shielding and protecting agent: it K 18.
79•
will seek all opportunities to serve and defend, will
d P 92.
TBSI.
T F36.
OS D 166.
OS D 166.
A P 105.
OS D 155.
THE ASTRAL BODY
strengthen friendly forces and weaken unfriendly ones,
that impinge on the aura. It may protect its object
from impurity, irritability, fear, etc.
Friendly thoughts and earnest good wishes thus
create and maintain what is practically a ,. guardian
angel " always at the side of the person thought of,
no matter where he may be. Many a mother's thoughts
and prayers, for example, have given assistance and
protection to her child. They may often be seen
by clairvoyants, and in rare cases they may even
materialise and become physically visible.
It is thus apparent that a thought of love sent from
one person to another involves the actual transference
of a certain amount both of force and of matter from
the sender to the recipient.
If the thought is sufficiently strong, distance makes
absolutely no difference to it: but a weak and diffused
thought is not effective outside a limited area.
A variant of our first group consists of those cases
where a man thinks strongly of himself in a distant
place. The form thus created contains a large pro-
portion of mental matter, takes the image of the
thinker, and is at first small and compressed. It
draws around itself a considerable amount of astral
matter and usually expands to life size before it appears
at its destination. Such forms are often seen by
clairvoyants, and not infrequently are mistaken for the
man's astral body or even for the man himself.
When this takes place, the thought or desire must
be sufficiently strong to do one of three things: (1) To
call up by mesmeric influence the image of the thinker
in the mind of the person to whom he wishesto appear :
(2) by the same power to stimulate for the moment
that person's psychic faculties so that he is able to
see the astral visitor; (3) to produce a temporary
materialisation which will be physically visible.
Apparitions at the time of death, which are by no
means uncommon, are very often really the astral
form of the dying man: but they may also be thought-
lorms called into being by his eamest wish to see some
THOUGHT-FORMS
friend before he passes on. In some instances the
visitor is perceived just after the moment of death,
instead of just before: but for various reasons this
fonn of apparition is far less frequent than the other.
A family ghost may be (I) a thought-form, (2) an A P 100.
unusually vivid impression in the astral light, or (3)
a genuine earth-bound ancestor still haunting some
particular place.
In this connection, it may be added that wherever A P 106.
. t . h b f It ch . C 161.
any in ense passion as een e ,su as terror, pam, 0 S D 290.
sorrow, hatred, etc., so powerful an impression is
made on the astral light that persons with but a faint
glimmer of psychic faculty may be impressed by it.
A slight temporary increase of sensibility would enable
a man to visualise the entire scene: hence many stories
of haunted places, and of the unpleasant influences
of such spots as Tyburn Tree, the Chamber of Horrors
at Madame Tussaud's, etc.
Apparitions at the spot where a crime was committed A P 105
are usually thought-forms projected by the criminal
who, whether living or dead, but most especially when
dead, is perpetually thinking over again and again
the circumstances of his action. Since these thoughts
are naturally specially vivid in his mind on the anniver-
sary of the crime, it may happen that the thought-form
is strong enough to materialise itself so as to be visible
to physical sight, thus accounting for many cases where
the manifestation is periodical.
Similarly, a jewel, which has been the cause of many H S 1168.
crimes, may retain the impressions of the passions
prompting the crimes, with unimpaired clearness, for
many thousands of years, and continue to radiate them.
A thought of phenomenal energy and concentration, 0 S D 241.
whether it be a blessing or a curse, calls into being an A P 93-9'·
elemental which is practically a living storage-battery
with a kind of clockwork attachment. It can be
arranged to discharge itself regularly at a certain hour
daily, or upon a certain anniversary. or its discharge
may be contingent upon certain occurrences. Many
instances of this class of elemental are on record,
THE ASTRAL BODY
particularly in the Highlands of Scotland, where phy-
sical warnings occur before the death of a member of
the family. In these cases it is usually the powerful
thought-fonn of an ancestor which gives the warning,
according to the intention with which it was charged.
A sufficiently strong wish-a concentrated effort of
intense love or envenomed hate-would create such
an entity once for all, an entity which would then
be quite disconnected from its creator, and would carry
on its appointed work entirely irrespective of later
intentions and desire on his part. Mere repentance
could not recall it or prevent its action any more than
repentance could stop a bullet once discharged. Its
power could be to a considerable extent neutralised
only by sending after it thoughts of a contrary
tendency.
A p 91. Occasionally an elemental of this class, being unable
to expend its force either upon its object or its creator,
may become a kind of wandering demon, and be
attracted by any person who harbours similar feelings.
If sufficiently powerful, it may even seize upon and
inhabit a passing shell (see page 171). in which it i!s
able to husband its resources more carefully. In this
fonn it may manifest through a medium, and, by
masquerading as a well-known friend, may obtain
influence over people upon whom it would otherwise
have little hold.
A p 96~7. Such elementals, whether fonned consciously or
S G 0 21
7. unconsciously, which have become wandering demons,
invariably seek to prolong their life, either by feeding
like vampires upon the vitality of human beings, or
by influencing them to make offerings to them. Among
simple primitive tribes they have frequently suc-
ceeded in getting themselves recognised as village or
family gods. The less objectionable types may be
content with efferings of rice and cooked foods: the
lowest and most loathsome class demand blood-
sacrifices. Both varieties exist to-day in India, and
in greater numbers in Africa.
By drawing mainly upon the vitality of their devo-
THOUGHT-FORMS 53
tees, and also upon the nourishment they can obtain
from the offerings, they may prolong their existence
for years, or even centuries. They may even perform
occasional phenomena of a mild type in order to
stimulate the faith and zeal of their followers. and
they invariably make themselves unpleasant in some
way or other if the sacrifices are neglected.
The black magicians of Atlantis-the " lords of the .4 P 98.
dark face "-seem to have specialised in this type of
artificial elementals, some of which. it is hinted. may
have kept themselves in existence even to this day.
The terrible Indian goddess, Kali, may well be a relic
of this type.
Tbr vast majority of thought-forms are simply T F 3~37.
copies or images of people or other material objects. 4.5·
They are formed first within the mental body and
then pass outwards and remain suspended before the
man. This applies to anything about which one may
be thinking: persons, houses, landscapes, or anything
else.
A painter, for example, builds out of the matter T F 36.
of his mental body a conception of his future picture,
projects it into space in front of him, keeps it before
his .. mind's eye:' and copies it. This thought- and H S 11 .59-
emotion-form persists and may be regarded as the 60.
unseen counterpart of the picture, radiating out its
own vibrations and affecting all who come within its
influence.
Similarly a novelist builds in mental matter images T F 37.
of his characters, and then, by his will, moves these
puppets from one position or grouping to another,
so that the plot of the story is literally acted out before
him.
A curious effect arises in such a case. A playful T F 31·
.. (Ch XX) ul h . H S I 161.
nature-spirit see apter may enso t e images
and cause them to do things other than those which
the author intended them to do. More frequently a
dead writer may perceive the images, and, being still
interested in the craft of writing, may mould the
characters and influence their actions according to his
THE ASTRAL BODY
own ideas. The actual writer thus often finds his
plots working themselves out according to a plan quite
different from his original conception.
H 5 11 34- In reading a book; it is possiblefor a genuine student,
Y:s3,tl!: with attention fully concentrated, to get into touch
with the original thought-form which represents the
author's conceptionas he wrote. Through the thought-
form the author himself may even be reached, and
additional information thus obtained, or light gained
on difficult points.
There are in the mental and astral worlds many
renderings of well-known stories, each nation usually
having its special presentation, with the characters
dressed in its own particular national garb. There thus
exist excellent and life-likethought-forms of peoplelike
Sherlock Holmes, Captain Kettle, Robinson Crusoe,
Shakespeare's characters, etc.
I L II 161- In fact, there are on the astral plane vast numbers
~6~ D 82. of thought-forms of a comparatively permanent
character, often the result of the cumulative work of
generations of people. Many of these refer to alleged
religious history, and the sight of them by sensitive
people is responsible for many quite genuine accounts
given by untrained seers and seeresses. Any great
historical event, having been constantly thought of,
and vividly imaged by large numbers of people, exists
as a definite thought-form on the mental plane, and
wherever there is any strong emotion connected with
it, it is materialised also in astral matter and conse-
quently can be seen by a clairvoyant.
The above applies equally, of course, to scenes and
situations in fiction, drama, etc.
A W 81-83. Considered in the mass, it is easy to realise the
T p 37-38. tremendous effect that these thought-forms or artificial
K 20-21.
elementals have in producing national and race-feelings,
and thus in biasing and prejudicing the mind: for
thought-form, of a similar kind have a tendency to
aggregate together and form a kind of collectiveentity.
We see everything through this atmosphere, every
thought is more or less refracted by it, and our own
THOUGHT-FORMS
astral bodies are vibrating in accord with it. As most
people are receptive rather than initiative in their
nature, they act almost as automatic reproducers of
the thoughts which reach them, and thus the national
atmosphere is continually intensified. This fact
obviously explains many of the phenomena of crowd-
consciousness (see Chapter XXV).
The influence of these aggregated thought-forms K:n: ts.
extends still further. Thought-forms of a destructive
type act as a disruptive agent and often precipitate
havoc on the physical plane, causing II accidents,"
natural convulsions, storms, earthquakes, floods, or
crime, disease, social upheavals and wars.
It is possible also for dead people and other non- osD 83-8,..
human entities, such as mischievous nature-spirits,
(see p. 181) for example, to enter and vivify these
thought-images. The trained seer has to learn to
distinguish the thought-form, even when vivified, from
the livingbeing, and prominent facts of the astral world
from the temporary moulds into which they are cast.
Our third class of thought-emotion forms consists T F 37-38.
of those which are not directly connected with any
natural object, and which therefore express themselves
in forms entirely their own, displaying their inherent
qualities in the matter which they draw around
themselves. In this group, therefore, we have a
glimpse of the forms natural to the astral and mental
planes. Thought-forms of this class almost invariably
manifest themselves on the astral plane, as the vast
majority of them are expressions of feeling as well
as of thought.
Such a form simply floats detached in the atmos- T F 27.
phere, all the time radiating vibrations similar to those
originally sent forth by its creator. If it does not
come into contact with any other mental body, the
radiation gradually exhausts its store of energy and
the form then falls to pieces; but if it succeeds in
awakening sympathetic vibrations in any mental body
near at hand, an attraction is set up, and the thought-
form is usually absorbed by that mental body.
T F 40-41 :
44: 49: .5.5.
T F42.
T FO.
T F12.
THE ASTRAL BODY
T F 27. From the above we see that the influence of a
H 5 II 2~ thought-form is lessfar-reaching than that of a thought-
flibrlJtion, but it acts with much greater precision. A
thought-vibration reproduces thoughts of an order
similar to that which gave it birth. A thought-form
reproduces the same thought. The radiations may
affect thousands and stir in them thoughts of the
same level as the original, though none of them may
be identical with it. The thought-form can affect
only very few, but in those few cases it will reproduce
exactly the initiatory idea.
For pictorial, coloured illustrations of many kinds
of thought and emotion forms, the student is referred
to the classic work on the subject: Thought-Forms,
by Annie Besant and C. W. Leadbeater. This whole
chapter, indeed, is largely a condensed summary of
the principles enunciated in that work.
Vague thoughts or feelingsshow themselves as vague
clouds. Definite thoughts or feelings create clearly
defined forms. Thus a form of definite affection
directed to a particular individual shapes itself not
unlike a projectile: a thought of protective affection
becomes somewhat like a bird, with a central portion
of yellow and two wing-shaped projections of rose-
pink: a thought of universal love becomesa rose-pink
sun with rays in every direction.
T F 43-44: Thoughts in which selfishness or greed are prominent
.51
, 52, 56. usually take a hooked form, the hooks in some cases
.57. 61,62.
actually clawing round the object desired.
T F 46-48. As a general principle, the energy of a selfishthought
:'8~ I 246- moves in a closed curve. and thus inevitably returns
ILl l' and expends itself upon its own level. An absolutely
~2~ 1 261- unselfish thought or feeling, however, rushes forth in
an open curve, and thus does notreturn, in the ordinary
sense, but pierces through into the plane above,
because only in that higher condition, with its addi-
tional dimension, can it find room for its expansion.
But, in thus breaking through, such a thought or feeling
opens a door, as we might say symbolically, of dimen-
sion equivalent to its diameter, and thus provides a
THOUGHT-FORMS 57
channel through which the higher planes can pour
themselves into the lower-often with wonderful
results, as in the case of prayer, both for the thinker
and for others.
Herein lies the highest and best part of the belief T F 46- 4S.
in answers to prayer. On the higher planes there ~L/1
t:6
1
_
is an infinite flood of force always ready and waiting z6z.
to be poured through when a channel is offered. A
thought of perfectly unselfish devotion provides such a
channel, the grandest and noblest part of such a thought
ascending to the Logos Himself. The response from
Him is a descent of the divine life, resulting in a great
strengthening and uplifting of the maker of the
channel, and the spreading all about him of a powerful
and beneficent influence, which flows through the
reservoir that exists on the higher planes for the
helping of mankind. It is this adding to the reservoir
of spiritual force which is the truth in the catholic
idea of works of supererogation. The Nirmanakayas
are especially associated with this great reservoir of
force.
Meditation upon a Master makes a link with Him, 1 L 1 69-70.
which shows itself to clairvoyant vision as a kind of ~s 11 45-
line of light. The Master always subconsciously feels M P 73·
the impinging of such a line, and sends out along it
in response a steady stream of magnetism whicb
continues to play long after the meditation is over.
Regularity in such meditation is a very important
factor.
A thought of definite, well-sustained devotion may T F 48.
assume a form closely resembling a flower, whilst
devotional aspiration will create a blue cone, the apex T F. 46.
pointing upwards.
Such thought-forms of devotion are often exceedingly LAD 57·
beautiful, varying much in outline, but characterised by
curved upward-pointing petals like azure flames. It
is possible that the flower-like characteristic of devo-
tion forms may have led to the custom of offering
flowers in religious worship, the flowers suggesting the
forms visible to astral sight.
T l' 50-51
T 1'53.
T 1'52.
TF.s+
THE ASTRAL BODY
Intense curiosity, or desire to know, takes the form
of a yellow snake: explosive anger or irritation, of
a splash of red and orange: sustained anger, of a
sharp, red stiletto: spiteful jealousy shows itself as
a brownish snake.
T F 66-73: Forms produced by people who have mind and
141~ 57. emotion well under control and definitely trained in
meditation, are clear, symmetrical objects of great
beauty, often taking well-known geometrical forms,
such as triangles, two triangles interlaced. five-pointed
stars, hexagons, crosses, and so on, these indicating
thoughts concerned with cosmicorder, or metaphysical
concepts.
H 5 11 259, The power of the united thought of a number of
26
5. people is always far more than the sum of their separate
thoughts: it would be more nearly represented by
their product.
T F 75-76. Music also produces forms which are perhaps not
~3~ 1 268- technically thought-forms-unless we take them, as
we well may, as the result of the thought of the com-
poser, expressed by the skill of the musician through his
instrument.
These music forms will vary according to the
type of music, the kind of instrument which plays it,
and the skill and merits of the performer. The same
piece of music will, if accurately played, always build
the same form, but that form will, when played on a
church organ or by an orchestra, be enormously larger
than, as well as of different texture from, that pro-
duced when played upon a piano. There will also
be a difference in texture between the result of a piece
of music played upon a violin and the same piece exe-
cuted upon a flute. There is also a wide difference
between the radiant beauty of the form produced by
a true artist. perfect in expression and execution, and
the relatively dull effect produced by a wooden and
mechanical player.
T l' 77. Music forms may remain as coherent erections for a
H 5 1 27
1•
considerable time-an hour or two at least-and
during all that time they are radiating their character-
THOUGHT-FORMS 59
istic vibrations in every direction, just as thought-
forms do.
In Thought-Forms three coloured examples are given,
of music forms built by music of Mendelssohn, of T F 77: Ro.
Gounod, and of Wagner respectively. T F 82.
The forms which are built vary much with different H S 1 269.
composers. An overture by Wagner makes a mag-
nificent whole, as though he built with mountains of
flame for stones. One of Bach's fugues builds up an
ordered form, bold yet precise, rugged but symmetrical,
with parallel rivulets of silver and gold or ruby running
through it, marking the successive appearances of the
motif. One of Mendelssohn's Lieber ohne Worte
makes an airy erection, like a castle of filigree work
in frosted silver.
These forms, created by the pelformers of the music, H S 1 270-
are quite distinct from the thought-forms made by 27
1•
the composer himself, which often persist for many
years, even for centuries, if he is so far understood
and appreciated that his original conception is strength-
ened by the thoughts of his admirers. Similar edifices
are constructed by a poet's idea of his epic, or a writer's
conception of his subject. Sometimes crowds of
nature-spirits (see p 181) may be seen admiring the
music-forms and bathing in the waves of influence
whichthey send forth.
In studying pictorial representations of thought- T F 16-17.
forms it is important to bear in mind that thought-
forms are four-dimensional objects. It is therefore a
practical impossibility to describe them adequately
in words which pertain to our ordinary three-dimen-
sional experiences, still less to portray them in two-
dimensional pictures on paper. Students of the fourth
dimension will realise that the most that can be done
is to represent a section of the four-dimensional forms. T F 48-49
It is a remarkable, and possibly deeply significant
fact, that many of the higher types of thought-forms
assume shapes closely resembling vegetable and animal
forms. We thus have at least a presumption that the
forces of nature work along lines somewhat similar
60
T F 29-30.
T F 28
H S I 274-
275·
H S I 277-
27'
THE ASTRAL BODY
to those along which thought and emotion work.
Since the whole universe is a mighty thought-form
called into existence by the Logos, it may well be that
tiny parts of it also result from the thought-forms of
minor entities engaged in the same creative work.
This conception naturally recalls the Hindu belief
that there are 330,000,000 Devas.
It is also wortliy of notice that, whilst some of the
thought-forms are so complicated and so exquisitely
fashioned as to be beyond the power of the human
hand to reproduce, yet they may be very closelyapprox-
imated by mechanical means. The instrument, known
as a Harmonograph, consists of a fine point guided in
its path by several pendulums, each of which has its
own independent swing, all of these being welded into
one composite movement, which is commanicated to
the pointer, and which the pointer registers on a
suitable surface.
Other, though simpler forms, resemble the sand
figures produced by the well-known Chladni's sound
plate or by the Eidophone (vide Eidophone Voice
Figures, by Margaret Watts Hughes).
Scales and arpeggios throw out lasso-like loops and
curves: a song with a chorus produces a number of
beads strung on a silver thread of melody: in a glee
or part-song intertwining threads of different colours
and textures are produced. A processional hymn
builds a series of precise rectangular forms, like the
links of a chain or the carriages of a railway train.
An Anglican chant makes glittering fragments, quite
different from the glowing uniformity of the Gregorian
tone, which is not unlike the effect of Sanskrit verses
chanted by an Indian pandit.
Military music produces a long stream of rhythmic-
ally vibrating forms, the regular beat of these undu-
lations tending to strengthen tl.ose of the astral bodies
of the soldiers, the impact of a succession of steady
and powerful oscillations supplying for the time the
place of the will-force which, through fatigue, may
have been slackened.
THOUGHT-FORMS 61
A thunderstorm creates a flaming band of colour, H S 1 279-
a crash making a form suggestive of an exploding 280.
bomb, or an irregular sphere with spikes projecting
from it. Sea-waves breaking on the shore create
wavy, parallel lines of changing colour, becoming
mountain ranges in a storm. Wind in the leaves of a
forest covers it with iridescent network, rising and
falling with gentle wave-like movement.
The song of birds shows as curving lines and loops
of light, from the golden globes of the campanero to
the amorphous and coarsely-coloured mass of the
scream of a parrot or macaw. The roar of a lion is
also visible in higher matter and it is possible that
some wild creatures are able to see it clairvoyantly,
thus adding to their terror. A purring cat surrounds H S 1280-
itself with concentric rosy elond-films: a barking 2!jZ.
dog shoots forth well-defined sharp-pointed projectiles
not unlike a rifle bullet, which pierce the astral bodies
of people and seriously disturb them. The bay of a
bloodhound throws off beads like footballs, slower in
motion and less liable to injure. The colour of these
projectiles is usually red or brown, varying with the
emotion of the animal and the key of his voice.
The lowing of a cow produces blunt-ended clumsy
shapes like logs of wood. A flock of sheep makes a
many-pointed yet amorphous cloud not unlike a dust-
cloud. .The cooing of a pair of doves makes graceful
curved forms like the letter S reversed.
Turning to human sounds, an angry ejaculation H S 1282-
throws itself forth like a scarlet spear: a stream of 283.
silly chatter produces an intricate network of hard
brown-grey metallic lines, forming an almost perfect
barrier against any higher or more beautiful thoughts
and icelings, The astral body of a garrulous person
is a striking object-lesson on the folly of unnecessary,
useless and unpleasant speech.
A child's laughter bubbles forth in rosy curves: H 5 1 283-
the g~ffaw of ~n emI;>ty-minded person causes an ~1;l05-106.
explosive effect In an Irregular mass, usually brown
or dirty green. A sneer throws out a shapeless pro-
M P 101.
H 51157.
H 51286-
287.
THE ASTRAL BODY
jectile of dull red, usually fiecked with brownish-
green and bristling with sharp points.
The cachinations of the self-conscious produce the
appearance and colour of a pool of boiling mud.
Nervous giggles create a sea-weed-like tangle of brown
and dull yellow lines, and have a very bad effect upon
the astral body. A jolly, kindly laugh billows out in
rounded forms of gold and green. A soft and musical
whistle produces an effect not unlike that of a small
fiute, but sharper and more metallic. Tuneless
whistling sends out small piercing projectiles of dirty
brown.
Fidgetiness or fussiness produces in the aura tremu-
lous vibrations, so that no thought or feeling can pass
in or out without distortion, even good thought that
is being sent out taking with it a shiver that practically
neutralises it. Accuracy in thought is essential, but it
should be attained not by hurry or fuss but by perfect
calmness.
The strident screech of a railway engine makes a
far more penetrating and powerful projectile than
even the bark of a dog. producing upon the astral body
an effect comparable to that of a sword thrust upon
the physical body. An astral wound heals in a few
minutes, but the shock to the astral organism dis-
appears by no means so readily.
The firing of a gun produces a serious effect upon
astral currents and astral bodies. Rifle or pistol fire
throws out a stream of small needles.
Repeated noises affect the mental and astral bodies
precisely as blows affect the physical body. In the
physical body the result would be pain: in the astral
body it means irritability: in the mental body a
feeling of fatigue and inability to think clearly.
It is abundantly clear that all loud, sharp or sudden
sounds should, as far-as possible, be avoided by any one
who wishes to keep his astral and mental vehicles in
good order. Especially disastrous is the effect, e.g.,
of the ceaseless noise and roar of a city upon the
plastic astral and mental bodies of children.
THOUGHT-FORMS
All the sounds of nature blend themselves into one H S 1 z87.
tone called by the Chinese the "Great Tone" or S D III 463-
, , 464.
KUNG. This also has its form, a synthesis of all
forms, vast and changeful as the sea, representing the
note of our earth in the music of the spheres. This is
said by some writers to be the note F of our scale.
It is, of course, possible to destroy a thought-form, 0 S D73·
and this is sometimes done, for example, where a
person after death is pursued by a malignant thought-
form, created probably by the hate of those whom the
person had injured whilst in the physical world. Al-
though such a thought-form may appear almost as a
living creature-an instance is given where it resembled
a huge distorted gorilla-it is simply a temporary
creation of evil passion and in no sense an evolving
entity, so that to dissipate it is simply like destroying
a Leyden jar, and is not in any sense a criminal action.
Most men recognise that acts which injure others ~ ~ gn.
are definitely and obviously wrong, but few recognise 61.
that it is also wrong to feel jealousy, hatred, ambition,
etc., even though such feelings are not expressed in
speech or deed. An examination of the conditions
of life after death (Chapters XIII-XV) reveals that
such feelings injure the man who harbours them, and
cause him acute suffering after death.
A study of thought-forms thus brings home to the T F p-74'
earnest student the tremendous possibilities of such ~3~ 1 191-
creations, and the responsibility attaching to a right
use of them. Thoughts are not only things, but
exceedingly puissant things. Every one is generating
them unceasingly night and day. Often it is not
possible to render physical aid to those in need, but
there is no case in which help may not be given by
thought, or in which it can fail to produce a definite
result. No one need hesitate to use this power to
the full: provided always that it be employed for
unselfish purposes, and for furthering the divine
scheme of evolution.
MB#
S P 35.
H S 118.
SGOa80.
H S 11 Q.
S G 0 a80'
LL 15.
1 Y 125.
CHAPTER VIII
PHYSICAL LIFE
.IN Chapter II we considered, in general outline, the
composition and structure of the astral body. We
shall now proceed to study it, in greater detail, as
it exists and is used during the ordinary waking
consciousness of the physical body.
The factors which determine the nature and quality
of the astral body during physical life may be roughly
grouped as follows :-
I. The physical life.
2. The emotional life.
3. The mental life.
I. The Physical Life.-We have already seen (p. 8)
that every particle of the physical body has its corres-
ponding astral .. counterpart." Consequently, as the
solids, liquids, gases and ethers of which the physical
is composed may be coarse or refined, gross or delicate,
so will be the nature of the corresponding astral
envelopes. A physical body nourished on impure.
food will produce a correspondingly impure astral
body, whilst a physical body fed on clean food and
drink will help to purify the astral vehicle.
The astral body being the vehicle of emotion, passion
and sensation, it follows that an astral body of the
grosser type will be chiefly amenable to the grosser
varieties of passion and emotion: whereas a finer
astral body will more readily vibrate to more refined
emotions and aspirations.
It is impossible to make the physical body coarse
and at the same time to organise the astral and mental
bodies for finer purposes: neither is it possible to
have a pure physical body with impure mental and
astral bodies. All three bodies are thus interdependent.
PHYSICAL LIFE
Not only the physical body, but also the higher S G 0 a80-
bodies also, are affected by the food which is eaten. 28z.
Carnivorous diet is fatal to anything like real occult
development, and those who adopt it are throwing
serious and unnecessary difficulties in their own way,
for flesh food intensifies all the undesirable elements
and passions of the lower planes.
In the ancient Mysteries were men of the utmost T N P uS-
purity and they were invariably vegetarian. The 119·
RAja Yogi takes especial pains to purify the physical
body by an elaborate system of food, drink, sleep, etc.,
and insists on foods which are salvie, or .. rhythmic,"
A whole system relating to foodstuffs is built up
to help in the preparation of the body for use by
the higher consciousness. Flesh foods are rajdsie, r Y 126.
i.e., they come under the quality of activity, being C W 124·
stimulants, and built up to express animal desires and
activities. They are utterly unsuited to the finer type
of nervous organisation. The yogi therefore cannot
afford to use these for the higher processesof thought.
Foods on the way to decay, such as game, venison,
etc., as well as alcohol, are tamdsie, or heavy, and
also to be avoided.
Foods which tend to growth, such as grain and
fruits, are salvie, or rhythmic, being the most highly
vitalised and suitable for building up a body sensitive
and at the same time strong.
Certain other substances also affect the physical 1 L r .m-B.
and astral bodies detrimentally. Thus tobacco per- ~. S II 20-
rneates the physical body with impure particles, causing
emanations so material that they are frequently per-
ceptible to the sense of smell. Astrally, tobacco not
only introduces impurity, but tends also to deaden
the sensibility of the body: .. soothing the nerves,"
as it is called. While this may, in conditions of
modem life, be sometimes less harmful than leaving
the nerves If unsoothed," it is certainly undesirable
for an occultist, who needs the capacity of answering
instantly to all possible vibrations, combined, of
course, with perfect control.
66 THE ASTRAL BODY
1 L 1 499. Similarly, there is no doubt whatever that from the
H S 11 10. point of view of both astral and mental bodies the
use of alcohol is always an evil.
e W 124. Bodies fed on flesh and alcohol are liable to be
thrown out of health by opening up of the higher
consciousness: and nervous diseases are partly due
to the fact that the human consciousness is trying to
express itself through bodies clogged with flesh pro-
ducts and poisoned with alcohol. In particular, the
pituitary body is very readily poisoned by even a
ew123: 197. very small amount of alcohol, and its highest evolution
is thereby checked. It is the poisoning of the pituitary
body with alcohol that leads to the abnormal and
irrational vision associated with delirium tremens.
1 L 1 499- In addition to the direct coarsening of the physical
l°Os 11 7-a: and astral bodies, meat, tobacco and alcohol are
11-12. open also to the serious objection that they tend to
:8;' 0282 : attract undesirable astral entities which take pleasure
1 Y 128. in the scent of blood and spirits: they surge around
the person, impressing their thoughts upon him,
forcing their impressions on his astral body, so that
the person may have a kind of shell of objectionable
entities hanging on to his aura. Principally for this
reason, in the Yoga of the Right Hand Path meat and
wine are absolutely forbidden.
M B 4.5. These entities consist of artificial elementals, given
birth to by the thoughts and desires of men, and also
of depraved men imprisoned in their astral bodies,
known as elementaries (see p. 145). The elementals
are attracted towards people whose astral bodies
contain matter congenial to their nature, while the
elementaries naturally seek to indulge in vices such
as they themselves encouraged while in physical bodies.
H S 11:12- Nearly all drugs-such as opium, cocaine, the
23· theine in tea, caffeine in coffee,etc.-produce a deleteri-
ous effect upon the higher vehicles. Occasionally they
are, of course, almost a necessity, in certain diseases :
but an occultist should usethem as sparingly as possible.
One who knows how to do it can remove the evil
effect of opium (which may have been used to relieve
PHYSICAL LIFE
great pain) from the astral and mental bodies after it
has done its work on the physical.
Dirt of all kinds is also more objectionable in the H S II 23-
higher worlds even than in the physical, and attracts 25·
a lowclass of nature-spirits (see p. 181). The occultist
therefore needs to be stringent in all matters of cleanli- H S 11204.
ness. Especial attention should be paid to the hands
and feet, because through these extremities emanations
Bowout so readily.
Physical noises, such as prevail in cities. jar the M P 100-
nerves and thus cause irritation and fatigue: the 101.
effect is accentuated by the pressure of so many astral
bodies vibrating at different rates, and all excited
and disturbed by trifles. Although such irritation is
superficial, and may pass out of the mind in ten
minutes, yet an effect may be produced in the astral
body lasting for forty-eight hours. Hence it is diffi-
cult, whilst living in modem cities, to avoid irritability,
especially for one whose bodies are more highly strung
and sensitive than those of the ordinary man.
In general, it may be said that everything which H 5 II 30.
promotes the health of the physical body also reacts
favourably upon the higher vehicles.
Travel is another of the many factors which affect H S 1 II~
the astral body. by bringing to bear on the traveller Ill.
a change of etheric and astral influences connected
with each place or district. Ocean, mountain, forest,
waterfall, each has its own special type of life, astral
and etheric as well as visible, and therefore its own
set of influences, Many of these unseen entities are
pouring out vitality, and in any case their effect on
etheric, astral and mental bodies is likely to be healthy
and desirable in the long run, though a change may be
somewhat tiring at the time. Hence an occasional
change from town to country is beneficial on the
ground of emotional as well as physical health.
the astral body may also be affected by such objects H S 11 69-
as talismans. The methods of making them have },;"P u6.
already been described in The Etheric Double, pp. II3-9.
We shall here deal only with their general effects.
68 THE ASTRAL BODY
When an object is strongly charged with magnetism
for a particular purpose by a competent person, it
becomes a talisman, and when properly made continues
to radiate this magnetism with unimpaired strength
for many years.
It may be used for many purposes. Thus, for
example, a talisman may be charged with thoughts of
purity, which will express themselves as definite rates
of vibration in astral and mental matter. These
vibratory rates, being directly contrary to thoughts of
impurity, will tend to neutralise or overpower any
impure thoughts which may arise. In many cases the
impure thought is a casual one that has been picked
up and is not therefore a thing of great power in itself.
The talisman, on the other hand, has been intentionally
and strongly charged, so that when the two streams
of thought meet, there is not the slightest doubt that
the thoughts connected with the talisman will vanquish
the others.
In addition, the initial conflict between the opposing
sets of thoughts will attract the man's attention, and
thus give him time to recollect himself, so that he will
not be taken off his guard, as so frequently happens.
H S 11 72- Another example would be that of a talisman charged
77· with faith and courage. This would operate in two
ways. First, the vibrations radiating from the talis-
man would oppose feelings of fear as soon as they
arose, and thus prevent them from accumulating and
strengthening one another, as they often do, until they
become irresistible. The effect has been compared to
that of a gyroscope which, once set in motion in one
direction, strongly resists being turned into another
direction.
Secondly, the talisman works indirectly upon the
mind of the wearer: as soon as he feels the beginnings
01 fear, he will probably recollect the talisman, and
call up the reserve strength of his own will to resist
the undesirable feeling.
A third possibility of a talisman is that of its being
linked with the person who made it. In the event
PHYSICAL LIFE
of the wearer being in desperate circumstances, he
may call upon the maker and evoke a response from
him. The maker mayor may not be physically con-
scious of the appeal, but in any case his ego will be
conscious and will respond by reinforcing the vibrations
of the talisman.
Certain articles are to a large extent natural amulets H 5 11 78-
or talismans. All precious stones are such, each 80.
having a distinct influence which can be utilised in
two ways: (I) the influence attracts to it elemental
essence of a certain kind, and thoughts and desires
which naturally express themselves through that
essence; (2) these natural peculiarities make it a fit
vehicle for magnetism which is intended to work along
the same line as those thoughts and emotions. Thus,
for example, for an amulet of purity, a stone should be
chosen whose natural undulations are inharmonious
to the key in which impure thoughts express themselves.
Although the particles of the stone are physical,
yet, being in a key identical at this level with the key
of purity on higher levels, they will, even without the
stone being magnetised, check impure thought or
feeling by virtue of the overtones. Furthermore, the
stone can readily be charged at astral and mental
levels with the undulations of pure thought and feeling
which are set in the same key.
Other examples are (I) the rudraksha berry, fre- H 5 11 80.
quently used for necklaces in India, which is especially
suitable for magnetisation where sustained holy thought
or meditation is required, and where all disturbing
influences are to be kept away; (2) the beads of the
tulsi plant, whose influence is somewhat different.
Objects which produce strong scents are natural H 5 11 80-
talismans. Thus the gums chosen for incense give 81.
out radiations favourable to spiritual and devotional
thought, and do not harmonise with any form of dis-
turbance or worry. Med!zval witches sometimes com-
bined the ingredients of incense so as to produce the
opposite effect, and it is alsodone to-day in LucileriaD
ceremonies. It is generally desirable to avoid coarse
70 THE ASTRAL BODY
and heavy scents, such as that of musk or of satchet
powder, as many of them are akin to sensual feelings.
H S 11 81- An object not intentionally charged may sometimes
8a. have the force of a talisman: e.g., a present from a
friend, worn on the person, such as a ring or chain,
or even a letter
H S 11 8a- An object, such as a watch, habitually carried in
86. the pocket, becomes charged with magnetism and is
able, if given away, to produce decided effects on the
recipient. Coins and money notes are usually charged
with mixed magnetism, feeling and thought, and may,
therefore, radiate a disturbing and irritating effect.
H S 1197. A man's thoughts and feelings thus affect not only
himself and other people, but also impregnate the
inanimate objects round him, even walls and furniture.
He thus unconsciously magnetises these physical
objects, so that they have the power of suggesting
similar thoughts and feelings to other people within
range of their influence.
(2) The Emotional Life.-It is scarcely necessary to
insist that the quality of the astral body is largely
determined by the kind of feelings and emotions which
constantly play through it.
1 L 1576· A man is using his astral body, whether he be con-
scious of the fact or not, whenever he expresses an
emotion, just as he is using his mental body whenever
he thinks, or his physical body whenever he perfonns
physical work. This, of course, is quite a diflerent
thing from utilising his astral body as an indePewlenl
vehicle through which his consciousness can be fully
expressed, a matter which we shall have to consider
later, in due course.
},f Y 1177. The astral body, as we have seen, is the field of
manifestion of desire, the mirror in which every feeling
is instantly reflected, in which even every thought
which has in it anything that touches the personal self
must express itself. From the material of the astral
body bodily form is given to the dark II elementals "
(see p, 45), which men create and set in motion by
evil wishes and malicious feelings: from it also are
PHYSICAL LIFE 71
bodied forth the beneficent elementals called into life
by good wishes, gratitude and love.
The astral body grows by use, just as every other
body does, and it also has its own habits, built up and
fixed by constant repetition of similar acts. The astral D A 39.
body during physical life being the recipient of and
respondent to stimuli both from the physical body and
from the lower mental, it tends to repeat automatically
vibrations to which it is accustomed; just as the hand
may repeat a familiar gesture, so may the astral body
repeat a familiar feeling or thought.
All the activities that we call evil, whether selfish 1 L 1 425-
thoughts (mental) or selfish emotions (astral), invari- 4
21.
ably show themselves as vibrations of the coarser
matter of those planes, whilst good and unselfish
thought or emotion sets in vibrations the higher types of
matter. As finer matter is more easily moved than
coarse, it follows that a given amount of force spent
in good thought or feeling produces perhaps a hundred
times as much result as the same amount of force sent
out into coarser matter. If this were not so, it is
obvious that the ordinary man could never make any
progress at all.
The effect of 10 per cent. of force directed to good
ends enormously outweighs that of 90 per cent.
devoted to selfish purposes, and so on the whole such
a man makes an appreciable advance from life to life.
A man who has even 1 per cent. of good makes a slight
advance. A man whose account balances exactly, so
that he neither advances nor retrogresses, must live
a distinctly evil life: whilst in order to go downwards
in evil a person must be an unusually consistent villain.
Thus even people who are doing nothing consciously 1 L 1 161-
towards their evolution, and who let everything go as ~2V1'4-1.5.
it will, are nevertheless gradually evolving, because of T B 47.
the irresistible force of the Logos which is steadily
pressing them onwards. But they are muving so
slowly that it will take them millions of years of
incarnation and trouble and uselessness to gain even
a step.
72 THE ASTRAL BODY
The method by which progress is made certain is
simple and ingenious. As we have seen, evil qualities
are vibrations of the coarser matter of the respective
planes, while good qualities are expressed through
the higher grades of matter. From this follow two
remarkable results,
It must be borne in mind that each sub-plane of
the astral body has a special relationship to the corre-
sponding sub-plane of the mental body; thus the four
lower astral sub-planes correspond to the four kinds
of matter in the mental body, while the three higher
astral sub-planes correspond to the three kinds of
matter in the causal body.
Hence the lower astral vibrations can find no matter
in the causal body capable of responding to them, and
so the higher qualities alone can be built into the
causal body. Thence it emerges that any good which
a man develops in himself is permanently recorded
by a change in his causal body, while the evil which
he does, feels, or thinks cannot possibly touch the real
ego, but can cause disturbance and trouble only to the
mental body, which is renewed for each fresh incarna-
tion. The result of evil is stored in the astral and
mental permanent atoms: the man, therefore, has
still to face it all over and over again, until he has
vanquished it, and finally rooted from his vehicles all
tendency to respond to it That is evidently a very
different matter from taking it into the ego and making
it really a part of himself.
M B 42. Astral matter responds more rapidly than physical
to every impulse from the world of mind, and conse-
quently the astral body of a man, being made of astral
matter, shares this readiness to respond to the impact
of thought, and thrills in answer to every thought
that strikes it, whether the thoughts come from
without, i.e., from the minds of other men, or from
within, from the mind of its owner.
M B.... An astral body, therefore, which is made by its
owner to respond habitually to evil thoughts acts as
a magnet to similar thought- and emotion-forms in
PHYSICAL LIFE 73
1 L 1.267-
268: 70.
HSI199-
100.
1 L 11 152.
its vicinity, whereas a pure astral body acts on such
thoughts with repulsive energy, and attracts to itself
thought- and emotion-forms of matter and vibrations
congruous with its own.
For it must be borne in mind that the astral world I L I 47.
is full of thoughts and emotions of other men, and H 5 1 102,
that these exert a ceaseless pressure, constantly bom-
barding every astral body and setting up in it vibra-
tions similar to their own.
In addition, there are nature-spirits (see p. 181) H S 1 102:
of a low order, which enjoy the coarse vibrations of I:l9-1
3°'
anger and hatred, and throw themselves into any
current of such nature, thus intensifying the undula-
tions add adding fresh life to them. People yielding
themselves to coarse feelings can depend on being
constantly surrounded by such carrion-crows of the
astral world who jostle one another in eager anticipa-
tion of an outburst of passion.
Many of the moods to which most people are sub- 1 L 1 267-
[ect, in greater or lesser degree, are due to outside ~~:rl8G.
astral influences. Whilst depression, for example, may 99·
bedue to a purely physical cause, such as indigestion,
a chill, fatigue, etc., even more frequently it is caused
by the presence of an astral entity who is himself
depressed and is hovering around either in search of
sympathy or in the hope of drawing from the subject
the vitality which he lacks.
Furthermore, a man who, for example, is beside M V I OII-
himself with rage, temporarily loses hold of his astral lOr 1 8-
body, the desire-elemental (see p. 6) becoming 488• 4 7
supreme. Under such circumstances the man may
be seized upon and obsessed either by a dead
man of similar nature or by some evil artificial
elemental.
The student should sternly and especially disregard
depression, which is a great barrier to progress, and
at least should endeavour to let no one else know that
he is oppressed by it. It indicates that he is thinking
more of himself than of the Master, and it makes it
more difficult for the Master's influence to act upon
74 THE ASTRAL BODY
him. Depression causes much suffering to sensitive
people, and is responsible for much of the terror of
children at night. The inner life of an aspirant ought
not to be one of continual emotional oscillation.
Above all things, the aspirant should learn not to
worry. Contentment is not incompatible with aspira-
tion. Optimism is justified by the certainty of the
ultimate triumph of good, though it is true that if we
take into account only the physical plane it is not
easy to maintain that position.
H 5 1 363- Under the stress of very powerful emotions, if a
37°· man lets himself go too far, he may die, becomeinsane,
or be obsessed. Such obsession need not necessarily
be what we call evil, though the truth is that all obses-
sion is injurious.
An illustration of this phenomenon may be taken
from" conversion" at a religious revival. On such
occasions some men get worked up into a condition of
such tremendous emotional excitement that they
swing beyond the degree of safety: they may then be
obsessed by a departed preacher of the same religious
persuasion, and thus two souls may temporarily work
through one body. The tremendous energy of these
hysterical excesses is contagious and may spread
rapidly through a crowd.
An astral disturbance is set up of the nature of a
gigantic whirlpool. Towards this pour astral entities
whose one desire is for sensation: these are all kinds
of nature-spirits (see p. 181) who delight in and bathe
in the vibrations of wild excitement, of whatever
character, be it religious or sexual, just as children
play in the surf. They supply and reinforce the
energy so recklessly expended. The dominant idea
being usually the selfi.sh one of saving one's own soul,
the astral matter is of a coarse kind, and the nature-
spirits are also of a primitive type.
The emotional effect of a religious revival is thus
very powerful. In some cases a man may be genuinely
and permanently benefited by his .. conversion,"
but the serious student of occultism should avoid
PHYSICAL LIFE 7S
such excessesof emotional excitement, which for many
people are apt to be dangerous. "Excitement is
alien to the spiritual life."
There are, of course, many causes of insanity: it 1 L 1 483-
may be due to defects in one or more of the vehicles 483-
-physical, etheric, astral, mental. In one variety it
is caused by a want of accurate adjustment between
the astral particles and the particles of either the
etheric or the mental body. Such a case would not
recover sanity until he reached the heaven-world, i.e.,
until he had left his astral body and passed into his
mental body. This type of insanity is rare.
The effecton the astral body caused by astral vibra- 1 L 1 4~48.
tions of another astral body has long been recognised lfo/ 1 102-
in the East, and is one of the reasons why it is such .
an immense advantage to a pupil to live in close
proximity to one more highly evolved than himself.
An Indian teacher not only may prescribe for his
pupil special kinds of exercises or study, in order to
purify, strengthen and develop the astral body, but
also by keeping the pupil in his neighbourhood physi-
cally seeks by this close association to harmonise
and attune the pupil's vehicles to his own. Such a
teacher has already calmed his own vehicles and
accustomed them to vibrate at a few carefully selected
rates instead of in a hundred promiscuous frenzies.
Thesefewrates of vibration are very strong and steady,
and day and night, whether he is sleeping or waking,
they play unceasingly upon the vehicles of the pupil,
and gradually raise him to his teacher's key.
For similar reasons, an Indian who wishes to live 1 L 1 47-48.
the higher life, retires to the jungle, as a man of other
races withdraws from the world and lives as a hermit,
He thus has at least breathing space, and rest from
the endless conflict caused by the perpetual battering
on his vehicles of other people's feelings and thoughts,
and can find time to think coherently. The calm
influences ofNature are also to a certain extent helpful.
Somewhat analagous are the effects produced on M Y 161.
animals whichare closelyassociated with human beings. H S I 157·
THE ASTRAL BODY
The devotion of an animal for the master whom he
loves, and his mental efforts to understand his master's
wishes and to please him, enormously develop the
animal's intellect and his power of devotion and
affection. But in addition to this, the constant play
of the man's vehicles on those of the animal greatly
assist the process, and thus prepare the way for the
animal to individualise and become a human entity.
H 5 1 469- It is possible, by an effort of will, to make a shell
~2B 117. of astral matter on the periphery of the astral aura.
This may be done for three purposes: (I) to keep
out emotional vibrations, such as anger, envy or
hatred, intentionally directed at one by another;
(2) to keep out casual vibrations of low type which
may be floating in the astral world and impinge upon
one's aura; (3) to protect the astral body during
meditation. Such shells do not usually last for long,
but need to be frequently renewed if required for any
length of time.
Such a shell would, of course, keep vibrations in
as well as out. The student should therefore make
the shell only of the coarsest astral matter, as he will
not wish to keep away, or to prevent from passing
outwards, vibrations in the higher types of astral
matter.
H S 1 476. As a general principle, it may be said that to use
a shell for oneself is to some extent a confession of
weakness, as if one is all one should be, no artificial
protection of-this kind would be needed. On the other
hand, shells may often be used with advantage to
help other people who need protection.
A p 39-40. It will be recollected (see p. 6) that a man's astral
os D 87-99· body consists not only of ordinary astral matter, but
also of a quantity of elemental essence. During the
man's life this elemental essence is segregated from
the ocean of -similar matter around, and practically
becomes for that time what may be described as a
kind of artificial elemental (see p. 45). i.e., a kind of
semi-intelligent separate entity known as the Desire-
Elemental. The Desire-Elemental follows the course
PHYSICAL LIFE 77
of its own evolution downwards into matter without
any reference to (or, indeed, any knowledge of) the
convenience or intention of the Ego to whom it happens
to be attached. Its interests are thus diametrically
opposed to those of the man, as it is seeking ever
stronger and coarser vibrations. Hence the perpetual
struggle described by St. Paul as .. the law in the
members warring against the law of the mind." Fur-
thermore, finding that association with the mental
matter of the man's mind-body brings to it more vivid
vibrations, it endeavours to stir up the mental matter
into sympathy with it, and to induce the man to
believe that he desires the sensations which it desires.
Consequently, it becomes a sort of tempter. Never-
theless the desire-elemental is not an evil entity: in
fact it is not an evolving entity at all, having no power
of reincarnation: it is only the essence of which it is
composed which is evolving. Nor has this shadowy
being any evil designs upon the man, for it knows
nothing whatever of the man of whom, for the time, it
forms a part. It is thus in no way a fiend to be
regarded with horror, but is as much a part of the divine
life as the man himself, though at a different stage of
its unfoldment.
It is a mistake to imagine that by refusing to gratify 1 L 1 40S.
the desire-elemental with coarse vibrations, a man is OS D 101.
thereby checking its evolution: for this is not the case.
By controlling the passions and developing the higher
qualities, a man drops the lower and helps to evolve
the higher types of essence: the lower kinds of vibra-
tions can be supplied by an animal, at some later time,
even better than by a man, whereas no one but a man
can evolve the higher type of essence.
All through life a man should definitely fight against I z, 1 404.
the desire-elemental and its tendency to seek for the
lower, coarser physical vibrations, recognising quite
clearly that its consciousness, its likes and dislikes, are
not his own. He has himself created it and should
not become a slave to it, but learn to control it and
realise himself as apart from it.
THE ASTRAL BODY
This matter willbe further consideredin Chapter XII.
(3) The Mental Life.-our third and last factor which
affects the astral body during ordinary waking COD-
sciousness is the mental life. The mental activities
have the most far-reaching effects on the astral body
for two reasons:-
(I) Because lower mental matter, Manas, is so
inextricably linked with astral matter, Kama, that it
is almost impossible for most people to utilise one
without the other: i.e., few people can think without
at the same time feeling, or feel without at the same
time, to some extent, thinking.
L L 9-10. (2) Because the organisation and control ofthe astral
body rest with the mind. This is an example of the
general principle that each body is built up by con-
sciousness working in the plane next above it. With-
out the creative power of thought the astral body
cannot be organised.
M B 98 : 68. Every impulse sent by the mind to the physical
body has to pass through the astral body, and produces
an effect on it also. Further, as astral matter is far
more responsive to thought-vibrations than is physical,
the effect of mental vibrations on it is proportionately
greater than on the physical body. Consequently a
controlled, trained and developed mind tends also
D 16. to bring the astral body under control and to develop
it. When, however, the mind isnot actively controlling
the astral body, the latter, being peculiarly susceptible
to the influence of passing thought-currents, is per-
petually receiving these stimuli from without, and
eagerly responding to them.
So far, we have dealt with the general effects pro-
duced on the astral body, during ordinary life, by the
nature of the physical, emotional and mental life.
We have now to deal, but in general outline only, with
the use of the special faculties of the astral body itself,
during the waking consciousness.
The nature of these faculties, and their connection
with the various Chakrams in the astral body, we
have already described in Chapter V. By means of
PHYSICAL LIFE 79
the powers of astral matter itself, developed through
the agency of the Chakrams, a man is enabled not M V r 16-
only to receive vibrations from etheric matter, trans-
mitted through the astral body to his mind, but also
to receive impressions direct from the surrounding
matter of the astral world, these, of course, being also
similarly transmitted through the mental body to the
real man within.
But in order to receive impressions in this manner
direct from the astral world, the man must learn to
focus his consciousness in his astral body, instead of,
as is usually the case, in his physical brain.
In the lower types of men, Klma, or desire, is still M v t 53.
emphatically the most prominent feature, though the M 18: 34·
mental development has also proceeded to some
extent. The consciousness of such men is centred in
the lower part of the astral body, their life being
governed by sensations connected with the physical
plane. That is the reason why the astral body forms L.A D .5.5-
the most prominent part of the aura in the undeveloped
man.
The ordinary average man is also still living almost M V] .53.
entirely in his sensations, although the higher astral
is coming into play: but still, for him, the prominent
question which guides his conduct is not what is right
or reasonable to do, but simply what he himself desires
to do. The more cultured and developed are begin-
ning to govern desire by reason: that is to say, the M V].54-
centre of consciousness is gradually transferring itself
from the higher astral to the lower mental. Slowly as
the man progresses it moves up further still, and the
man begins to be dominated by principle rather than
by interest and desire.
The student will recollect that humanity is still] L I 36.
in the Fourth Round, which should naturally be L L 13
8•
devoted to the development of desire and emotion;
yet we are engaged in the unfolding of intellect, which
is to be the special characteristic of the Fifth Round.
That this is so is due to the immense stimulus given
to our evolution by the descent of the Lords of the
80
MY/54·
1 L t 441.
THE ASTRAL BODY
Flame from Venus, and by the work of the Adepts,
who have preserved for us that influence and steadily
sacrificed themselves in order that we might make
the better progress.
In spite of the fact that, in the vast majority of
cases the centre of consciousness is located in the astral
body, most men are quite unaware of the fact, knowing
nothing at all about the astral body or its uses. They
have behind them the traditions and customs of a
long series of lives in which the astral faculties have
not been used; yet all the time those faculties have
been gradually and slowly growing inside a shell, some-
what as a chick grows inside the egg. Hence a very
large number of people have astral faculties, of which
they are entirely unconscious, in reality very near the
surface, so to speak, and it is probable that in the near
future, as these matters become more widely known
and understood, in great numbers of cases these
latent faculties will break through, and astral powers
will then become far more common than they are
to-day.
The shell spoken of above is composed of a great
mass of self-centred thought in which the ordinary
man is almost hopelessly entombed. This applies also,
perhaps with even greater force, to the sleep life, with
which we shall deal in the next chapter.
We spoke above of focussing the consciousnessin the
astral body. The consciousnessof man can be focussed
in only one vehicle at a time, though he may be simul-
taneously conscious through the others in a vague way.
A simple analogy may be taken from ordinary physical
sight. If the finger be held up before the face, the
eyes can be so focussed as to see the finger perfectly:
at the same time the distant background can also be
seen, though imperfectly, because it is out of focus.
In a moment the focus can be changed so that the
background is seen perfectly, but the finger, now out
of focus, only dimly and vaguely.
Precisely in the same way, if a man who has developed
astral and mental consciousness focusses himself in the
PHYSICAL LIFE 8x
physical brain, as in ordinary life, he will see perfectly
the physical bodies of people, and at the same time he
willseetheir astral and mental bodies,but onlysomewhat
dimly. In far less than a moment he can change the
focus of his consciousness so that he sees the astral
fully and perfectly: but in that case he will see the
mental and physical bodies also, but not in full detail.
The same thing is true of the mental sight and of the 1 L 1 441.
sight of higher planes.
Thus in the case of a highly developed man, whose M V 1 6,5.
consciousness has already developed even beyond the
causal (higher mental) body, so that he is able to
function freely on the buddhic plane, and has also a
measure of consciousness upon the ltmic plane, the
centre of consciousness lies between the higher mental
and the buddhic plane. The higher mental and the
higher astral are in him much more developed than
their lower parts, and though he still retains his
physical body, he holds it merely for the convenienceof
working in it, and not in any way because his thoughts
and desires are fixed there. Such a man has trans-
cended all Kama which could bind him to incarnation,
and his physical body is therefore retained in order M V 1 66.
that it may serve as an instrwnent for the forces of the
higher planes to reach down even to the physical plane.
1 L 1 ..88-
4l1e): 396-
397·
LA DO.
CHAPTER IX
SLEEP~LIFE
11.1488- THE real cause of sleep would appear to be that the
4&g· bodies grow tired of one another. In the case of the
physical body, not only every muscular exertion, but
also every feeling and thought, produce certain slight
chemical changes. A healthy body is always trying to
counteract these changes, but it never quite succeeds
whilst the body is awake. Consequently with every
thought, feeling or action there is a slight, almost
imperceptible loss, the cumulative effect of which
eventually leaves the physical body too exhausted to
be capable of further thought or work. In some cases
H S 1 73-74. even a few moments of sleep will be sufficient for
recuperation, this being effected by the physical
elemental.
In the case of the astral body, it very soon becomes
tired of the heavy labour of moving the particles of
the physical brain, and needs a considerable period
of separation from it to enable it to gather strength to
resume the irksome task.
On its own plane, however, the astral body is
practically incapable of fatigue, since it has been known
to work incessantly for twenty-five years without
showing signs of exhaustion.
Although excessive and long-continued emotion tires
a man very quickly in ordinary life, it is not the
astral body which becomes fatigued, but the physical
organism through which the emotion is expressed or
experienced.
Similarly with the mental body. When we speak of
mental fatigue, it is in reality a misnomer, for it is
1 L I ,pl. the brain, not the mind, that is tired. There is no
AI JI. such thing as fatigue of the tnintl.
SLEEP-LIFE
When a man leaves his body in sleep (or in death), 1 t: 1 360-
the pressure of the surrounding astral matter-which 361.
really means the force of gravity on the astral plane-
immediately forces other astral matter into the astrally
empty space. Such a temporary astral counterpart
is an exact copy, so far as arrangement tis concerned,
of the physical body, but nevertheless it has no real
connection with it, and could never be used as a vehicle.
It is merely a fortuitous concurrence of particles,
drawn from any astral matter of a suitable kind that
happens to be at hand. When the true astral body
returns, it pushes out this other astral matter without
the slightest opposition.
This is clearly one reason why extreme care should
be exercised as to the surroundings in which a man
sleeps: for, if those surroundings are evil, astral
matter of an objectionable type may fill the physical
body while the man's astral body is absent, leaving
behind infiuences which cannot but react unpleasantly
upon the real man when he returns.
When a man ., goes to sleep." his higher principles M B ..8-49-
in their astral vehicle withdraw from the physical body. ~~.98.
the dense body and the etheric body remaining by
themselves on the bed, the astral body floating in the LAD 4"
air above them. In sleep, then. a man is simply using
his astral body instead of his physical: it is only the
physical body that is asleep, not necessarily the man
himself.
Usually the astral body, thus withdrawn from 1 L 1 393-
the physical. will retain the form of the physical ~9~ 3-3
body, so that the person is readily recognisable 3 4·
to anyone who knows him physically. This is
due to the fact that the attraction between the
astral and the physical particles, continued all through
physical life, sets up a habit or momentum in the
astral matter, which continues even while it is
temporarily withdrawn from the sleeping physical
body.
For this reason, the astral body of a man who is 1 L 1391.
asleep will consist of a central portion, corresponding
LAD 45.
1 H 34.
M 849: 100.
D 32.
1 L I 399.
A P34.
1 H 34.
A WC}8.
THE ASTRAL BODY
to the physical body, relatively very dense, and a
surrounding aura, relatively much rarer.
A very undeveloped man may be nearly as much
asleep as his physical body, because he is capable
of very little definite consciousness in his astral
body. He is also unable to move away from the
inunediate neighbourhood of the sleeping physical
body, and if an attempt were made to draw him away
in his astral body, he would probably awake in his
physical body in terror.
His astral body is a somewhat shapeless mass, a
floating wreath of mist, roughly ovoid in shape, but
very irregular and indefinite in outline: the features
and shape of the inner form (the dense astral counter-
part of the physical body) are also vague, blurred and
indistinct, but always recognisable.
A man of this primitive type 11.lS been using his
astral body, during waking consciousness, sending
mind currents through the astral to the physical brain.
But when, during sleep, the physical brain is inactive,
the astral body, being undeveloped, is incapable of
receiving impressions on its own account, and so the
man is practically unconscious, being unable to
express himself clearly through the poorly organised
astral body. The centres of sensation in it may be
affected by passing thought-forms, and he may
answer in it to stimuli that- rouse the lower nature.
But the whole effect given to the observer is one of
sleepiness and vagueness, the astral body lacking all
definite activity and floating idly, inchoate, above the
sleeping physical form.
In a quite unevolved person, therefore, the higher
principles, i.e., the man himself, are almost as much
asleep as the physical body.
In some cases the astral body is less lethargic, and
floats dreamily about on the various astral currents,
occasionally recognising other people in a similar con-
dition, and meeting with experiences of all sorts,
pleasant and unpleasant, the memory of which, hope-
lessly confused and often travestied into a grotesque
SLEEP-LIFE 85
I L 13<J9.
D 33.
A P 34.
1 11 34.
M B 49-5°.
D 33.
A W 101-
lOZ.
caricature of what really happened (see Chapter X
on Dreams) will cause the man to think next morning
what a remarkable dream he has had.
In the case of a more evolved man, there is a very
great difference. The inner form is much more distinct
and definite-a closer reproduction of the man's
physical appearance. Instead of the surrounding
mist-wreath, there is a sharply defined ovoid form
preserving its shape unaffected amidst all the varied
currents which are always swirling around it on the
astral plane.
A man of this type is by no means unconscious in his LAD 46•
astral body, but is quite actively thinking. Neverthe- ~ lfvI;:;'"
less, he may be taking very little more notice of his 101.
surroundings than undeveloped man. Not because he is
incapable of seeing, but because he is so wrapped up
in his own thought that he does not see, though he
could do so if he chose. Whatever may have been
the thoughts engaging hia mind during the past day,
he usually continues them when he falls asleep, and
he is thus surrounded by so dense a wall of his own
making that he observes practically nothing of what
is going on outside. Occasionally a violent impact
from without, or even some strong desire of his own
from within, may tear aside this curtain of mist and
permit him to receive some definite impression. But
even then the fog would close in again almost im-
mediately, and he would dream on unobservantly as
before.
In the case of a still more developed man, when
the physical body goes to sleep, the astral body slips
out of it, and the man is then in full consciousness.
The astral body is clearly outlined and definitely
organised, bearing the likeness of the man, and the
man is able to use it as a vehicle, a vehicle far more
convenient than the physical body.
The receptivity of the astral body has increased,
until it is instantly responsive to all the vibrations
of its plane, the fine as well as the coarser: but in
the astral body of a very highly developed person
86
H S 11238.
H S 11137.
S PIg.
M 39-41.
I L 11 85.
TB71.
THE ASTRAL BODY
there would, of course, be practically no matter left
capable of responding to coarse vibrations.
Such a man is wide awake, is working far more
actively, more accurately, and with greater power of
comprehension, than when he was confined in the
denser physical vehicle. In addition, he can move
about freely and with immenserapidity to any distance,
without causing the least disturbance to the sleeping
physical body.
He may meet and exchange ideas with friends, either
incarnate or discarnate, who happen to be equally
awake on the astral plane. He may meet people more
evolved than himself,and receivefrom them warning or
instruction: or he may be able to confer benefits on
those who know less than himself. He may come into
contact with non-human entities of various kinds (see
Chapters XX and XXI on AstralEntities): he will be
subject to all kinds of astral induences, good or evil,
strengthening or terrifying.
He may form friendships with people from other
parts of the world: he may give or listen to lectures :
if he is a student, he may meet other students and,
with the additional faculties which the astral world
gives, he may be able to solve problemswhichpresented
difficultiesin the physical world.
A physician, for example, during the sleep of the
body, may visit casesin whichhe is especiallyinterested.
He may thus acquire new information, whichmay come
through as a kind of intuition to his waking conscious-
ness.
In a highly evolved man, the astral body, being
thoroughly organised and vitalised, becomes as much
the vehicle of consciousness on the astral plane as the
physical body is on the physical plane.
The astral world being the very home of passion and
emotion, those who yield themselves to an emotion
can experience it with a vigour and a keenness merci-
fully unknown on earth. Whilst in the physical body
most of the efficiency of an emotion is exhausted in
transmission to the physical plane, but in the astral
.11IVI5~·
I H 34.
H S II 167.
C 3,5.
OS Dz8-zg"
SLEEP-LIFE
world the whole of the force is available in its own
world. Hence it is possible in the astral world to feel
far more intense affection or devotion than is possible
in the physical world: similarly an intensity of
suffering is possible in the astral world which is
unimaginable in ordinary physical life.
An advantage of this state of affairs is that in the
astral world all pain and suffering are voluntary and
absolutely under control, hence life there is much
easier, for the man who understands. To control
physical pain by the mind is possible, but exceedingly
difficult: but in the astral world anyone can ir. a
moment drive away the suffering caused by a strong
emotion. The man has only to exert his will, when
the passion straightway disappears. This assertion
sounds startling: but it is nevertheless true, such being
the power of will and mind over matter.
To have attained full consciousness in the astral 1 L 1 376-
body is to have already made a considerable amount 377·
of progress: when a man has also bridged over the
chasm between astral and physical consciousness, day
and night no longer exist for him, since he leads a life
unbroken in its continuity. For such a man, even
death, as ordinarily conceived, has ceased to exist,
since he carries that unbroken consciousness not only
through night and day, but also through the portals
of death itself, and up to the end of his life upon the
astral plane, as we shall see later when we come to
deal with the after-death life.
Travelling in the astral body is not instantaneous: M BIll-liZ.
but it is so swift that space and time may be said to M 14: 39.
be practically conquered: for although a man is
passing through space, it is passed through so rapidly
that its power to divide is nearly non-existent. In
two or three minutes a man might move round the
world.
Any fairly advanced and cultured man has already
consciousness fully developed in the astral body,
and is perfectly capable of employing it as a vehicle,
though in many cases he does not do so, because he
88
1 L IJ 87.
OS D 29.
A P 32.
M !' 1 57.
I n 100.
IL1l87:
90-9:1.
THE ASTRAL BODY
has not made the definite effort which is at first
necessary, until the habit becomes established.
The difficulty with the ordinary person is not that
the astral body cannot act, but that for thousands of
years that body has been accustomed to being set in
motion only by impressions received through the
physical vehicle, so that men do not realise that the
astral body can work on its own plane and on its own
account, and that the will can act upon it directly.
People remain" unawake II astrally because they get
into the habit of waiting for the familiar physical
vibrations to call out their astral activity. Hence
they may be said to be awake on the astral plane, but
not in the least to the plane, and consequently they
are conscious of their surroundings only very vaguely,
if at all.
When a man becomes a pupil of one of the Masters,
he is usually at once shaken out of his somnolent
condition on the astral plane, fully awakened to the
realities around him on that plane, and set to learn
from them and to work among them, so that his hours
of sleep are no longer a blank, but are filled with
active and useful occupation, without in the least
interfering with the healthy repose of the tired physical
body.
In Chapter XXVIII on Invisible Helpers we shall
deal more fully with carefully planned and organised
work in the astral body: here it may be stated that
even before that stage is reached, a great deal of
useful work may be and is constantly being done.
A man who falls asleep with the definite intention in
his mind of doing a certain piece of work will assuredly
go and attempt to carry out his intention as soon as
he is freed from his physical body in sleep. But, when
the work is completed, it is likely that the fog of his
own self-centred thoughts will close round him once
more, unless he has accustomed himself to initiate
fresh lines of action when functioning apart from the
physical brain. In some cases, of course, the work
chosen is such as to occupy the whole of the time
SLEEP-LIFE
spent in sleep, so that such a man would be exerting .'If B 36.
himself to the fullest extent possible, so far as his astral
development permits.
Everyone should determine each night to do some- 1 L 1192-93.
thing useful on the astral plane: to comfort some one
in trouble: to use the will to pour strength into a
friend who is weak or ill: to calm some one who is
excited or hysterical: or to perform some similar
service.
Some measure of success is absolutely certain, and
if the helper observes closely, he will often receive
indications in the physical world of definite results
achieved.
There are four ways in which a man may be LA 1>46-47'
.. awakened" to self-conscious activity in his astral 1 H 35·
body.
(I) By the ordinary course of evolution, which,
though slow. is sure.
(2) By the man himself, having learnt the facts of
the case, making the requisite steady and persistent
effort to clear away the mist from within and gradually
overcome the inertia to which he is accustomed. In
order to do this the man should resolve before going
to sleep to try when he leaves the body to awaken
himself and see something or do some useful work.
This, of course, is merely hastening the natural process
of evolution. It is desirable that the man should first
have developed common sense and moral qualities:
this for two reasons: first, lest he may misuse such
powers as he may acquire; second, lest he be over-
whelmed by fear in the presence of forces which he
can neither understand nor control.
(3) By some accident, or by unlawful use of magical
ceremonies, he may so rend the veil that it can never
wholly be closed again. Instances of this are to be
found in A BewilL);ul Life, by H. P. Blavatsky, and
in Zanoni, by Lord Lytton.
(4) A friend may act from without upon the closed L.f D4~47.
shell surrounding the man and gradually arouse the 1 H 35·
man to higher possibilities. This, however, would
go THE ASTRAL BODY
never be done unless the friend were quite sure that
the man to be awakened possessed the courage, devo-
tion, and other qualifications necessary for useful
work.
M V1 5~57f But the need of helpers on the astral plane. is so
great that every aspirant may be certain that there
will not be a day's delay in arousing him as soon as
he is seen to be ready.
, H 67-68. It may be added that when even a child has been
awakened on the astral plane, the development of
the astral body would proceed so rapidly that he would
very soon be in a position upon that plane but little
inferior to that of the awakened adult, and would,
of course, be much in advance, so far as usefulness is
concerned, of the wisest man who was as yet
unawakened.
But unless the ego expressing himself through the
child-body possessed the necessary qualification of a
determined yet loving disposition, and had clearly
manifested it in his previous lives, no occultist would
take the very serious responsibility of awakening him
on the astral plane. When it is possible to arouse
children in this way, they often prove most efficient
workers on the astral plane, and throw themselves into
this work with a whole-souled devotion which is
beautiful to see.
I H 3,. Also, while it is comparatively easy to waken a man
on the astral plane. it is practically impossible. except
by a most undesirable use of mesmeric in1luence, to put
him to sleep again.
~ ~ I!I~5: Sleeping and waking life are thus seen to be in reality
.. 5· So but one: during sleep we are aware of that fact, and
have the continuous memory of both, t.e., astral
memory includes the physical, though, of course, the
physical memory by no means always includes the
memory of astral experiences.
1 L 1 ..92- The phenomenon of sleep-walking (somnambulism)
493· may apparently be produced in several distinct ways.
(I) The ego may be able to act more directly upon
the physical body during the absence of the mental and
SLEEP-LIFE 91
astral vehicles: in cases of this nature a man might
be able, for example, to write poetry, paint pictures,
etc., which would be far beyond his ordinary powers
when awake.
(2) The physical body may be working automatically,
and by force of habit, uncontrolled by the man himself.
Instances of this occur where servants rise in the
middle of the night and light a fire or attend to other
household duties to which they are accustomed: or
where the sleeping physical body carries out to some
extent the idea dominant in the mind before falling to
sleep.
(3) An outside entity, incarnate or discarnate, may
seize the body of a sleeping man and use it for his own
ends. This would be most likely to happen with a
person who was mediumistic, i.e., whose bodies are
more loosely joined together than usual and therefore
more readily separable.
With normal people, however, the fact that the 1 L 1 ..87.
astral body leaves the physical body during sleep does
not open the way to obsession, because the ego always
maintains a close connection with his body and he
would quickly be recalled to it by any attempt that
might be made upon it.
(4) A directly opposite condition may also produce
a similar result. When the principles or bodies fit
more tightly than usual, the man, instead of visiting
a distant place in his astral body only, would take his
physical body along as well, because he is not wholly
dissociated from it.
(5) Somnambulism is probably also connected with
the complex problem of the various layers of conscious-
ness in man, which under normal circumstances are
unable to manifest themselves.
Closely akin to sleep-life is the condition of trance, S p 4'.
which is but the sleep state, artificially or abnormally S C :Z3s·
induced. Mediums and sensitives readily pass out of
the physical body into the astral body, usually uncon-
sciously. The astral body can then exerciseits functions,
such as that of travelling to a distant place, gathering
THE ASTRAL BODY
impressions there from surrounding objects and bring-
ing them back to the physical body. In the case of a
medium the astral body can describe these impressions
by means of the entranced physical body: but, as a
rule, when the medium comes out of the trance, the
brain does not retain the impressions thus made on it,
no trace being left in the physical memory of the
experiences acquired. Occasionally, but rarely, the
astral body is able to make a lasting impression on the
brain, so that the medium is able to recollect the know-
ledge acquired during trance.
CHAPTER X
DREAMS
CONSCIOUSNESS and activity in the astral body are one LAD 6.
thing : the memory in the brain of that astral conscious- 0 5 D 3U
•
ness and activity are a totally different matter. The
existence or the absence of physical memory in no
way affects the consciousness on the astral plane, nor
the ability to function in the astral body with perfect M D 52.
ease and freedom. It is, in fact, not only possible,
but also by no means uncommon, for a man to function
freely and usefully in his astral body during the sleep
of the physical body, and yet to return to the physical
body without the slightest memory of the astral work
upon which he has been engaged.
The break in consciousness between the astral and M B 50 • 100.
the physical life is due either to undevelopment of the
astral body, or to the want of an adequate etheric bridge
between the astral and the dense physical matter of
the bodies.
This bridge consists of the closely-woven web of 1 L " 116.
atomic matter, through which the vibrations have to
pass, and which causes a moment of unconsciousness,
like a veil, between sleeping and waking.
The only way in which memory of the astral life 1 L 1 156.
can be brought through into the physical brain is
by sufficient development of the astral body and
by an awakening of the etheric Chakrams, one
function of which is to bring forces from the astral 1 L I 151.
to the etheric. In addition, there must be active 5 C 260-261.
functioning of the pituitary body, which focusses the
astral vibrations.
Sometimes, on awakening, there is a feeling that M B ,50-51•
something has been experienced of which no memory I L 1I 105-
remains. The feeling indicates that there bas been
M B 51.
1 L 11 105.
THE ASTRAL BODY
astral consciousness, though the brain is insufficiently
receptive to receive the record. At other times the
man in his astral body may succeedin making a momen-
taryimpression on the etheric doubleand the densebody,
resulting in a vivid memory of the astral life. This is
sometimes done deliberately when something occurs
which the man feels that he ought to remember on
the physical plane. Such a memory usually vanishes
quickly and cannot be recovered: efforts to recover
the memory, by setting up strong vibrations in the
physical brain, still further overpower the more
delicate astral vibrations, and consequently render
success even more impossible.
There are some events, too, which make such a
vivid impression upon the astral body that they become
impressed upon the physical brain by a kind of reper-
cussion (see page 242).
In other cases, a man may succeed in impressing new
knowledge on the physical brain, without being able to
convey also the memory of where or how that know-
ledge was gained. Instances of this, common to most
people, occur where solutions of problems, previously
insoluble, suddenly arise in the consciousness, or where
light is suddenly thrown on to questions previously
obscure. Such cases may be taken to indicate that
progress is being made with the organisation and
functioning of the astral body, although the physical
body is still only partially receptive.
In cases where the physical brain does respond, there
are vivid, reasonable and coherent dreams, such as
occur to many people from time to time.
t L II 114- Few people, when in the astral body, care whether
116. the physical brain remembers or not, and nine out of
ten much dislike returning to the body. In coming
back to the physical body from the astral world there
is a feeling of great constraint, as though one were
being enveloped in a thick, heavy cloak. The joy of
life on the astral plane is so great that physical life
in comparison with it seems no life at all. Many
regard the daily return to the physical body as men
DREAMS 95
often do their daily journey to the office. They do
not positively dislike it, but they would not do it unless
they were compelled.
Eventually, in the case of highly developed and M B 53.
advanced persons, the etheric bridge between the astral
and the physical worlds is constructed. and then there
is perfect continuity of consciousness between the
astral and the physical lives. For such people life
ceases to be composed of days of remembrance and
nights of oblivion, and becomes instead a continuous
whole. year after year. of unbroken consciousness.
Occasionally. a man who has normally no memory of 1 L 1 377-
his astral life. may unintentionally, through an accident 388•
or illness, or intentionally by certain definite practices,
bridge over the gap between astral and physical con-
sciousness, so that from that time onwards his astral
consciousness will be continuous, and his memory of
his sleep life will therefore be perfect. But, of course,
before this could take place, he must already have
developed full consciousness in the astral body. It is
merely the rending of the veil between the astral and
physical that is sudden, not the development of the
astral body.
The dream life may be considerably modified as a M B ~.
direct result of mental growth. Every impulse sent by
the mind to the physical brain has to pass through the
astral body, and, as astral matter is far more respon-
sive to thought-vibrations than is physical matter, it
follows that the effects produced on the astral body
are correspondingly greater. Thus, when a man has
acquired mental control, i.e., has learned to dominate
the brain, to concentrate, and to think as and when he
likes, a corresponding change will take place in his
astral life; and, if he brings the memory of that
life through into the physical brain, his dreams
will become vivid, well-sustained, rational, even
instructive.
In general, the more the physical brain is trained to M B 1°5.
answer to the vibrations of the mental body, the more
is the bridging of the gulf between waking and sleeping
THE ASTRAL BODY
consciousness facilitated. The brain should become
more and more the obedient instrument of the man,
acting under impulses from his will.
ILl 191- The dreaming of ordinary events does not interfere
49Z
• with astral work, because the dreaming takes place in
the physical brain, while the real man is away attend-
ing to other matters. It does not really matter what
the physical brain does, so long as it keeps itself free
from undesirable thoughts
Once a dream is started, its course cannot usually be
changed: but the dream-life can be controlled in-
directly to a considerable extent. It is especially
important that the last thought on sinking to sleep
should be a noble and elevating one, as this strikes
the keynote which largely determines the nature of
the dreams which follow. An evil or impure thought
attracts evil and impure influences and creatures,
which react on the mind and astral body and tend to
awaken low and earthly desires.
On the other hand, if a man falls asleep with his
thoughts fixed on high and holy things, he will auto-
matically draw round him elementals created by
similar efforts of others, and consequently his dreams
will be lofty and pure.
As we are dealing in this book mainly with the
astral body, and phenomena closely associated with it,
it is not necessary to attempt to deal exhaustively
with the somewhat large subject of dream conscious-
ness. Nevertheless, in order to show the proper setting
of the part which the astral body plays in the dream life,
it will be useful to give a very brief outline of the main
factors operative in producing dreams. For a detailed
study of the whole matter the student is referred to
that excellent textbook, Dreams, by C. W. Leadbeater,
from which the following facts are extracted.
D 4<r50. The factors concerned in the production of dreams
are:-
I. The lower physical brain, with its infantile semi-
consciousness, and its habit of expressing every stimulus
in pictorial form.
DREAMS 97
2. The ethericpart ofthe brain, through which sweeps
a ceaseless procession of disconnected pictures.
3. The astral body, palpitating with the wild surgings
of desire and emotion.
4. The ego (in the causal body) who may be in any
state of consciousness, from almost complete insensi-
bility to perfect command of his faculties.
When a man goes to sleep, his ego withdraws further D 50.
within himself, and leaves his various bodies more
free than usual to go their own way. These separate
bodies: (I) are much more susceptible of impressions
from without than at other times; and (2) have a
very rudimentary consciousness of their own. Con-
sequently there is ample reason for the production of
dreams, as well as for confused recollections in the
physical brain of the experiences of the other bodies
during sleep.
Such confused dreams may thus be due to: (I) a D 58-59.
series of disconnected pictures and impossible trans-
formations produced by the senseless automatic action
of the lower physical brain; (2) a stream of casual
thought which has been pouring through the etheric
part of the brain; (3) the ever-restless tide of earthly
desire, playing through the astral body and probably
stimulated by astral influences; (4) an imperfect
attempt at dramatisation by an undeveloped ego;
(5) a mingling of several or all of these influences.
We will briefly describe the principal elements in
each of these kinds of dreams.
I. Physical Brain Dreams.-When in sleep the ego, D 24-25·
for the time, resigns control of the brain, the physical
body still has a certain dim consciousness of its own:
and in addition there is also the aggregate consciousness
of the individual cells of the physical body. The grasp
of the physical consciousness over the brain is far
feebler than that of the ego over the brain, and con-
sequently purely physical changes are capable of
affecting the brain to a very much greater extent. Ex-
amples of such physical changes are: irregularity in the
circulation of the blood, indigestion, heat and cold, etc.
D 26.
M B 30.
D 29.
D 89-3°.
D 30-31.
THE ASTRAL BODY
The dim, physical consciousness possesses certain
peculiarities: (I) it is to a great extent automatic;
(2) it seems unable to grasp an idea except in the form
in which it is itself an actor: consequently all stimuli,
whether from within or from without, are immediately
translated into perceptual images; (3) it is incapable
of grasping abstract ideas or memories, as such, but
at once transforms them into imaginary percepts:
(4) every local direction of thought becomes for it an
actual spatial transportation, i.e., a passing thought
of China would transport the consciousness instantly
in imagination to China; (5) it has no power of
judging the sequence, value or objective truth of the
pictures that appear before it; it takes them all just
as it sees them, and never feels surprised at anything
which may happen, however incongruous or absurd;
(6) it is subject to the principle of association of ideas,
and consequently images, unconnected except by the
fact that they represent events which happened near
to one another in time, are apt to be thrown together
in inextricable confusion; (7) it is singularly sensitive
to the slightest external influences, such as sounds or
touches, and (8) it magnifies and distorts them to an
almost incredible degree.
The physical brain thus is capable of creating
sufficient confusion and exaggeration to account for
many, but by no means all, dream phenomena.
2. Etheric Brain Dreams.:«The etheric brain is even
more sensitive during the sleep of the body than it
is during ordinary waking consciousness to influences
from outside. Whilst the mind is actively engaged, the
brain thereby being fully employed, it is practically
impervious to the continual impingement of thought
from without. But the moment the brain is left
idle, the stream of inconsequent chaos begins to pour
through it. In the vast majority of people, the
thoughts which flow through their brains are in
reality not their own thoughts at all, but fragments
cast off by other people. Consequently, in sleep life
especially, any passing thought which finds something
DREAMS 99
congruous to itself in the brain of a sleeper, is seized
upon by that brain and appropriated, thus starting
a wholetrain of ideas: eventually these fade away and
the disconnected, purposeless stream begins flowing
through the brain again.
A point to notice is that, since in the present state D 31-32.
of the world's evolution there are likely to be more
evil thoughts than good ones floating around, a man
with an uncontrolled brain is open to all sorts of
temptation which mind and brain control might have
spared him.
Even when these thought-currents are shut out, by D 32: 62.
the deliberate effort of another person, from the etheric
brain of a sleeper,that brain does not remain completely
passive, but begins slowly and dreamily to evolve
pictures for itself from its store of past memories.
3. Astral Dreams.-These are simply recollection in
the physical brain of the life and activities of the
astral body during the sleep of the physical body, to
which referencehas already been made in the preceding
pages. In the case of a fairly well-developed person, D 33.
the astral body can travel without discomfort to
considerable distances from its physical body: can
bring back more or less definite impressions of places
which it may have visited, or of people whom it may
have met. In every case the astral body, as already
said, is ever intensely impressionable by any thought
or suggestion involving desire or emotion, though the
nature of the desires which most readily awaken a
response in it will, of course, depend on the develop-
ment of the person and the purity or otherwise of his
astral body.
The astral body is at all times susceptible to the D I(H1.
influences of passing thought-currents, and, when the
mind is not actively controlling it, it is perpetually
receiving these stimuli from without, and eagerly
responding to them. During sleep it is even more
readily influenced. Consequently, a man who has, for
example, entirely destroyed a physical desire, which he
may previously have possessed for lacohol, so that in
100 THE ASTRAL BODY
waking life he may feel even a definite repulsion for
it, may yet frequently dream that he is drinking, and
in that dream experience the pleasure of its influence.
During the day, the desire of the astral body would be
under the control of the will, but when the astral body
was liberated in sleep, it escaped to some extent from
the domination of the ego, and, responding probably to
outside astral influence, its old habit reasserted itself.
This class of dream is probably common to many who
are making definite attempts to bring their desire-
nature under the control of the will.
S C 332-333. It may also happen that a man may have been a
drunkard in a past life and still possesses in his astral
body some matter drawn thereinto by the vibrations
caused in the permanent atom by the drunkenness.
Although this matter is not vivified in this life, yet in
dreams, the control of the ego being weak, the matter
may respond to drink-vibrations from without and
the man dreams that he drinks. Such dreams, once
understood, need not cause distress: nevertheless
they should be regarded as a warning that there is
still present the possibility of the drink-craving being
re-awakened.
D 33. Ego Dreams.-Much as the nature of the astral body
changes as it develops, still greater is the change of the
ego, or real man, that inhabits it. Where the astral
body is nothing but a floating wreath of mist, the ego
D. 34. is also almost as much asleep as his physical body,
being blind to the influences of his own higher plane:
and even if some idea belonging to it should manage to
reach him, since he has little or no control over his
lower bodies, he will be unable to impress the experi-
ence on the physical brain.
Sleepers may be at any stage from that of complete
oblivion up to that of full astral consciousness. And it
must be recollected, as already said, that even though
there may be many important experiences on the higher
planes, the egcmay nevertheless be unable to impress
them upon the brain, so that there is either no physical
memory at all, or only a most confused memory.
DREAMS 101
The principal characteristics of the consciousness D 35-4°.
and experiences of the ego, whether or not they be
remembered in the brain, are as follows :-
(I) The ego'smeasure of time and space are so entirely
different from that which he uses in waking life that
it is almost as though neither time nor space existed
for him. Many instances are known where in a few
moments of time, as we measure it, the ego may have
experiences which appear to last for many years,
event after event happening in full and circumstantial
detail.
(2) The ego possesses the faculty, or the habit, of D 40-42.
instantaneous dramatisation. Thus a physical sound I L 11107.
or a touch may reach the ego, not through the usual
nerve mechanism, but directly, a fraction of a second
before even it reaches the physical brain. That frac-
tion of a second is sufficient for the ego to construct a
kind of drama or series of scenes leading up to and
culminating in the event which awakens the physical
body. The brain confuses the subjective dream and
the objective event, and therefore imagines itself to
have actually lived through the events of the dream.
This habit, however, seems to be peculiar to the ego
which, SO far as spirituality is concerned, is still com-
paratively undeveloped. As the ego develops spirit-
ually; he rises beyond these graceful sports of his
childhood. The man who has attained continuous
consciousness is so f12lly occupied with higher plane
work that he devotes no energy to this dramatisation,
and consequently this class of dream ceases for
him.
(3) The ego possessesalso to some extent the faculty D 43-48.
of prevision, being sometimes able to see in advance
events which are going to happen, or rather which may
happen unless steps are taken to prevent them, and to
impress the same on the physical brain. Many in-
stances are recorded of such prophetic or warning
dreams. In some cases the warning may be heeded,
the necessary steps taken, and the foreseen result
either m0di6.ed or entirely avoided.
102 THE ASTRAL BODY
D 4~49. (4) The ego, when out of the body during sleep,
appears to think in symbols: an idea, which down
here would require many words to be expressed, is
perfectly conveyed to him by a single symbolical
image. If such a symbolic thought is impressed upon
the brain, and remembered in waking consciousness,
the mind may itself translate it into words: on the
other hand it may come through merely as a symbol,
untranslated, and so may cause confusion. In dreams
of this nature, it seems that each person usually has a
system of symbology of his own: thus water may
signify approaching trouble: pearls may be a sign of
tears: and so forth.
1) 66-67. If a man wishes to have useful dreams, i.e., to be
able to reap in his waking consciousness the benefit of
what his ego may learn during sleep, there are certain
steps he should take to bring about this result.
First, it is essential that he should form the habit
of sustained and concentrated thought during ordinary
waking life. A man who has absolute control of his
thoughts will always know exactly what he is thinking
about, and why; he will also find that the brain, thus
trained to listen to the promptings of the ego, will
remain quiescent when not in use, and will decline to
receive or respond to casual currents from the surround-
ing ocean of thought. The man will thus be more
likely to receive influences from the higher planes,
where insight is keener and judgment truer than they
can ever be on the physical plane.
It should scarcely be necessary to add that the man
should also be complete master of at least his lower
passions.
By a very elementary act of magic, a man may shut
out from his etheric brain the rush of thoughts which
impinge upon it from without. To this end, he should,
when lying down to sleep, picture his aura, and will
strongly that its outer surface shall become a shell
to protect him from outside influences. The auric
matter will obey his thought, and form the shell. This
step is of appreciable value towards the desired end.
DREAMS 103
The great importance of fixing the last thought, D 68.
before falling to sleep, on high and noble things, has
already been mentioned; it should be practised
regularly by those who wish to bring their dreams
under control.
It maybe useful here to add the Hindu terms for I Y 16.
the four states of consciousness:
Jag,at is the ordinary waking consciousness.
Svapna is the dream consciousness, working in the
astral body, and able to impress its experiences upon
the brain.
Sushupti is the consciousness working in the mental
body, and not able to impress its experiences on the
brain.
Tu,iya is a state of trance, the consciousness working
in the buddhic vehicle, being so far separated from the
brain that it cannot readily be recalled by outer means.
These terms, however, are used relatively, and vary
according to the context. Thus, in one interpretation
of jag,at, the physical and astral planes are combined, .A. P no.
the seven sub-divisions corresponding to the four
conditions of physical matter, and the three broad
divisions of astral matter mentioned on page 148.
For further elucidation the student is referred to
An Int,oduction to Yoga, by A. Besant, page 16, et seq.,
and also to A Study in Consciousness, where waking S C 219.
consciousness is defined as that part of the total
consciousness which is working through the outermost
vehicle.
CHAPTER Xl
CONTINUITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS
.'tf B 103- As we have seen, for a man to pass in unbroken
1°4· consciousness from one vehicle to another, e.g., from
the physical to the astral, or vice ve,s4, it is requisite
that the links between the bodies should be developed.
Most men are not conscious of these links, and the
links are not actively vivified, being in a condition
similar to that of rudimentary organs in the physical
body. They have to be developed by use, and are
made to function by the man fixing his attention upon
them and using his will. The will sets free and guides
kundalini, but unless the preliminary purification of
the vehicles is first thoroughly accomplished, kundalini
is a destructive instead of a vivifying energy. Hence
the insistence, by all occult teachers, on the necessity
of purification before true yoga is practised.
M B 1o,. When a man has rendered himself fit to be helped
in vivifying the links, such assistance will inevitably
come to him as a matter of course, from those who are
ever seeking opportunities to aid the earnest and
unselfish aspirant. Then, one day, the man will find
himself slipping out of the physical body while he is
wide awake, and without any break in consciousnesshe
discovers himself to be free. With practice the passage
from vehicle to vehicle becomes familiar and easy.
The development of the links bridges the gulf between
physical and astral consciousness, so that there is
perfect continuity of consciousness.
A P 13. The student thus has not only to learn to seecorrectly
on the astral plane, but also to translate accurately
the memory of what he has seen from the astral to the
physical brain: and to assist him in this he is trained
to carry his consciousness without break from the
CONTINUITY OF CONSCIOUSNESS
physical plane to the astral and mental and back again,
for until that can be done there is always a possibility
that his recollections may be partially lost or distorted
during the blank intervals which separate his periods
of consciousness on the various planes. When the
power of bringing over the consciousness is perfectly
acquired, the pupil will have the advantage of the use
of all the astral faculties, not only while out of the
body during sleep or trance, but also while fully awake
in ordinary physical life.
In order that the physical waking consciousness S C 118.
should include astral consciousness it is necessary
that the pituitary body should be further evolved,
and that the fourth spirillae in the atoms should be
perfected.
In addition to the method of moving the conscious- I L I 147-
ness from one sub-plane to another, of the same plane, I+S.
from, e.g., the ast,al atomic to the lowest sub-plane of
the mental, there is also another line of connection
which may be called the atomic short-cut.
If we picture the atomic sub-planes of astral, mental,
ete., as lying side by side along a rod, the other sub-
planes may be pictured as hanging from the rod in
loops, as though a piece of string were wound loosely
round the rod. Obviously, then, to pass from one
atomic sub-plane to another one could move by a
short cut along the rod, or down and up again through
the hanging loops which symbolise the lower sub-
planes.
The normal processes of our thinking come steadily S C 161-161.
down through the sub-planes: but Bashes of genius,
illuminative ideas, come through the atomic sub-planes
only.
There is also a third possibility connected with the
relation of our planes with the cosmic planes, but this
is too abstruse to be dealt with in a work which
purports to deal only with the astral plane and its
phenomena.
Merely to obtain continuity of consciousness between M B 106.
the physical and the astral planes is, of course, quite
106 THE ASTRAL BODY
insufficient in itself to restore memory of past lives.
For this a much higher development is required, into
the nature of which it is not necessaryto enter here.
M B ,.- .5.5. A man who has thus acquired complete mastery over
the astral body may, of course, leave the physical body,
not only during sleep, but at any time he chooses, and
go to a distant place, etc.
S p 47. Mediums and sensitives project their astral bodies
unconsciously,when they go into trance: but usually
on coming out of trance there is no brain-memory of
the experiences acquired. Trained students are able
to project the astral body consciously and to travel to
great distances from the physical body, bringing back
with them full and detailed memory of all the impres-
sions they have gained.
S p 48. An astral body thus projected may be seen by per-
sons who are sensitive or who may chance to be
temporarily in an abnormal nervous condition. There
c 74. are on record many cases of such astral visitations by a
o 5 D 1.5.5. dying person near the time of death, the approach of
dissolution having loosenedthe principles so as to make
the phenomenon possiblefor people who were unable at
any other time to perform the feat. (See also page 50
for a similar phenomenon produced by a thought-form.)
The astral body is also set free in many cases of disease.
Inactivity of the physical body is a condition of such
astral journeys.
A man may. if he knows how to set about it, slightly
densify his astral body by drawing into it, from the
surrounding atmosphere, particles of physical matter,
and thus "materialise" sufficiently to become physi-
cally visible. This is the explanation of many cases
of .. apparitions," where a person, physically absent,
has been seen by friends with their ordinary physical
sight.
CHAPTER XII
DEATH AND THE DESIRE-ELEMENTAL
ATdeath, the consciousness withdraws from the dense D.f 17.
physical body into the etheric double for a short time,
usually a few hours, and then passes into the astral
budy.
Death thus consists of a process of unrobing or
unsheathing. The ego, the immortal part of man,
shakes off from itself, one after the other, its outer
casings. first the dense physical: then the etheric
double: then even the astral body, as we shall see later.
In almost every case the actual passing-away appears 0 S D 45.
to be perfectly painless, even after a long illness involv-
ing terrible suffering. The peaceful look on the face
of the dead is strong evidence in favour of this state-
ment, and it is also borne out by the direct testimony
of most of those who have been questioned on the
point immediately after death.
At the actual moment of death, even when death is K T JOO.
sudden, .a man sees the whole of his past life mar- :11~ 110-
shalled before him, in its minutest detail. In a moment
he sees the whole chain of causes which have been at
work during his life; he sees and now understands
himself as he really is, unadorned by flattery or self-
deception. He reads his life, remaining as a spectator,
looking down upon the arena he is quitting.
The condition of consciousness immediately after the D .4 Z9.
moment of death is usually a dreamy and peaceful one. I L II 91.
There will also be a certain period of unconsciousness, ~I;. D 37:
which may last only for a moment, though often it is a
few minutes, or several hours, and sometimes even days
or weeks.
The natural attraction between the astral counter- 1 L 1393-
part and the physical body is such that, after death, ~n'D 8:-.
108 THE ASTRAL BODY
the astral counterpart, from force of habit, retains its
accustomed form: consequently a man's physical
appearance will still be preserved after death almost
unchanged. Almost-because in view of the fact that
astral matter is very readily moulded by thought, a
man who habitually thinks of himself after death as
younger than he actually was at the time of death will
probably assume a somewhat younger appearance.
1 L 1 402. Very soon after death, in most cases, an important
io; 11 102- change takes place in -the structure of the astral body,
o S D 95-99. owing to the action of the desire elemental.
T B 66. Much of the matter of the astral body is composed of
elemental essence (see page 6): this essence is living,
though not intelligent: and for the time it is cut 011
from the general mass of astral essence. Blindly,
instinctively, and without reason it seeks its own ends
and shows great ingenuity in obtaining its desires and
in furthering its evolution.
Evolution for it is a descent into matter, its aim
being to become a mineral monad. Its object in life,
therefore, is to get as near to the physical plane as it
can, and to experience as many of the coarser vibrations
as possible. It neither does nor could know anything
of the man in whose astral body it is for the time living.
1 L 14°3. It desires to preserve its separate life, and feels that
it can do so only by means of its connection with the
man: it is conscious of the man's lower mind, and
realises that the more mental matter it can entangle
with itself the longer will be its astral life.
On the death of the physical body, knowing that the
term of its separated life is limited, and that the man's
1 L 14tl6. astral death will more or less quickly follow, in order
~Ll~.5-;-cJr. to make the man's astral body last as long as possible,
..4 W II].' it rearranges its matter in concentric rings or shells,
T B 68. the coarsest outside. From the point of view of the
desire elemental this is good policy, because the
coarsest matter can hold together longest and best
stand friction.
A W 113. The re-arranged astral body is called the Yatan4, or
suffering body: in the case of a very evil man in
DEATH AND THE DESIRE-ELEMENTAL log
whose astral body there is a preponderance of the
coarsest matter, it is called the Dh,uvam or strong
body.
The re-arrangement of the astral body takes place 1 L 11 103.
over the surface of the counterpart of the physical
body. not over the surface of the ovoid which sur-
rounds it.
The effect is to prevent the free and full circulation 1 L 1 406.
of astral matter which usually takes place in the astral ~~1J> ~~;~I.
body. In addition. the man is able to respond only to
those vibrations which are received by the outermost
layer of his astral body. The man is thus shut up, as
it were, in a box of astral matter. being able to see and
hear things of the lowest and coarsest plane only.
Although living in the midst of high influences and 1 L 11 47.
beautiful thought-forms. he would be almost entirely
unconsciousof their existence, because the particles of
his astral body which could respond to those vibrations
are shut in where they cannot be reached.
Consequently, also, being able to sense only the
coarsest matter in the astral bodies of other people.
and being entirely unconscious of his limitations, he
would assume that the person he was looking at
possessed only the unsatisfactory characteristics which
he would be able to perceive.
Since he can see and feel only what is lowest and T B 70.
coarsest, the men around him appear to be monsters of
vice. Under these circumstances it is little wonder
that he considers the astral world a hell.
The re-arrangement of the astral body by the desire 1 L 1 399-
elemental does not in any way affect the recognisability 4
00
•
of the form within the ovoid, though the natural
changes which take place tend on the whole to make
the fonn grow somewhat fainter and more spiritual
in appearance as time passeson-for reasons which will
presently be made clear.
In course of time, the outermost shell or ring disin- 1tI R 57.
tegrates: the man then becomes able to respond to 1 L II ..5-,50.
the vibrations of the next higher level of the astral
plane, and thus "rises to the next sub-plane": and so
110 THE ASTRAL BODY
on from one sub-plane to another. His stay on each
sub-plane will, of course, correspond to the amount and
activity of the matter in his astral body belonging to
that sub-plane.
A P 17-18 : When we speak of a man " rising" from one sub-
1:1· plane to another, he need not necessarily move in
space at all: he rather transfers his consciousness from
one level to another. In the case of a man with a
rearranged astral body, the focus of his consciousness
shifts from the outer shell to the one next within it.
The man thus gradually becomes unresponsive to the
vibrations of one order of matter and answers instead
to those of a higher order. Thus one world with its
scenery and its inhabitants would seem to fade slowly
away from his view, while another world would dawn
upon him.
t L 1/ 18-19. As the shell usually disintegrates gradually, the man
os D 60-61: thus finds the counterparts of physical objects growing
1°3· dimmer and dimmer, while thought-forms become more
and more vivid to him. If during this process he meets
another man at intervals, he will imagine that that
man's character is steadily improving, merely because
he is himself becoming able to appreciate the higher
vibrations of that character. The re-arrangement of
the astral body, in fact, constantly interferes with a
man's true and full vision of his friends at all stages
of their astral life.
t L I 4°7. This process of re-arrangement of the astral body,
r L II .51: which takes place with most people, can be prevented
~o~ D 10.5- by the man setting his will to oppose it: in fact, anyone
106. who understands the conditions of the astral plane
should altogether decline to permit the re-arrangement
of the astral body by the desire-elemental. The par-
ticles of the astral body will then be kept intenningled,
as in life, and in consequence, instead of being confined
to one astral sub-plane at a time, the man will be free
of all the suo-planes, according to the constitution of
his astral body.
t L 1/ 103. The elemental, being afraid in its curious semi-
o S D 106. conscious way, will endeavour to transfer its fear to the
DEATH AND THE DESIRE-ELEMENTAL III
man who is jolting him out of the re-arrangement, in
order to deter him from doing so. Hence one reason
why it is so useful to have knowledge of these matters
before death.
If the re-arrangement, or shelling, has already 1 L I 365-
occurred, it is still possible for the condition to be tf'II 5J •
broken up by someone who wishes to help the man, 0 S D lOS.
and for the man to be thus set free to work on the
whole astral plane, instead of being confined to one
level.
CHAPTER XIII
AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PRINCIPLES
L.If D s- IT cannot be too strongly insisted that it is not found
~80~ 11 279- that any sudden change takes place in man at death:
c ...~. on the contrary. he remains after death exactly what
~2.S D 33: he was before. except that he no longer has a physical
body. He has the same intellect, the same disposition,
the same virtues and vices; the loss of the physical
body no more .makes him a different man than would
the removal of an overcoat. Moreover, the conditions
in which he finds himself are those which his own
thoughts and desires have already created for him.
There is no reward or punishment from outside, but
only the actual result of what he has himself done, and
said, and thought, while living in the physical world.
.If p 9. As we proceed with our description of the astral life
OS D 12-13. after death, it will be recognised that the true facts
correspond with considerable accuracy with the
Catholic conception of purgatory, and the Hades or
underworld of the Greeks.
.f p 45. The poetic idea of death as a universal leveller is a
mere absurdity born of ignorance, for, as a matter
of fact, in the vast majority of cases, the loss of the
physical body makes no difference whatever in the
character or intellect of the person, and there are
therefore as many different varieties of intelligence
among the so-called dead as among the living.
This is the first and the most prominent fact to
appreciate: that after death there is no strange new
life, but a continuation, under certain changed con-
ditions, of the present physical plane life.
1L 1126-28. So much is this the case that when a man first
arrives on the astral plane after physical death he by
no means always knows that he is dead: and even when
AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PRINCIPLES II3
he does realise what has happened to him he does not
always at first understand how the astral world differs
from the physical.
In some cases people consider the very fact that ..4 P 4.5.
they are still conscious an absolute proof that they 1 H 84·
have not died: and this in spite of the much-vaunted
belief in the immortality of the soul.
If a man has never heard of astral plane life before, 1 L 1 4°5.
he is likely to be more or less disturbed by the totally 1 H 75·
unexpected conditions in which he finds himself.
Finally, he accepts these conditions, which he does not
understand, thinking them necessary and inevitable. L ..4 D H
Looking out upon the new worlds, at the first glance
he would probably see very little difference, and he
would suppose himself to be looking upon the same
world as before. As we have seen, each degree of M B 38-39-
astral matter is attracted by the corresponding degree
of physical matter. If, therefore, we imagined the
physical world to be struck out of existence, without
any other change being made, we should still have
a perfect replica of it in astral matter. Consequently LAD 7~.
a man on the astral plane would still see the walls, T B 73·
furniture, people, etc., to which he was accustomed,
outlined as clearly as ever by the densest type of astral
matter. If, however, he examined such objects closely
he would perceive that all the particles were visibly
in rapid motion, instead of only invisibly as on the
physical plane. But, as few men observe closely, a
man who dies often does not know at first that any
change has come over him. Thus many, especially in
Western countries, find it difficult to believe that they
are dead, simply because they still see, hear, feel and
think. Realisation of what has happened willprobably
dawn gradually, as the man discovers that though he
can see his friends he cannot always communicate with
them. Sometimes he speaks to them, and they do
not seemto hear: he tries to touch them, and finds that
he can make no impression upon them. Even then,
for some time he may persuade himself that he is
dreaming, for at other times, when his friends are
L.If D 10.
IL1188.
t: AD 43.
ILII88:6.
THE. ASTRAL BODY
asleep, they are perfectly conscious of him and talk
with him as of old.
By degrees the man begins to realise the differences
between his present life and that which he lived in the
physical world. For example, he soon finds that for
him all pain and fatigue have passed away. He also
finds that in the astral world desires and thoughts
express themselves in visible forms, though these are
composed mostly of the finer matter of the plane.
As his life proceeds, these become more and more
prominent.
Moreover, though a man on the astral plane cannot
usually see the physical bodies of his friends, yet he
can and does see their astral bodies, and consequently
knows their feelings and emotions. He will not
necessarily be able to follow in detail the events of
their physical life : but he would at once be aware of
such feelings as love or hate, jealousy or envy, as these
would be expressed through the astral bodies of his
friends.
Thus, although the living often suppose themselves
to have "lost" the dead, the dead are never for a
moment under the impression that they have lost the
living.
A man, in fact, living in his astral body after death
is more readily and deeply influenced by the feelings
of his friends in the physical world than when he was
on earth, because he has no physical body to deaden
his perceptions.
1 L 1110-n. A man on the astral plane does not usually see the
whole astral counterpart of an object, but the portion
of it which belongs to the particular sub-plane apon
which he is at the time.
Moreover, a man by no means always recognises
with any certainty the astral counterpart of a physical
body even when he sees it. He usually requires con-
siderable experience before he can clearly identify
objects, and any attempt that he makes to deal with
them is liable to be vague and uncertain. Examples
of this are often seen in haunted houses, where stone-
AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PRINCIPLES lIS
throwing, or vague, clumsy movements of physical
matter take place.
Frequently, not realising that he is free from the I LIIzH7.
necessity to work for a living, to eat, sleep, etc., a man
after death may continue to prepare and consume
meals, created entirely by his imagination, or even to
build for himself a house in which to live. A case is
recorded of a man who built for himself a house, stone
by stone, each stone being separately created by his
own thought. He might, of course, with the same
amount of effort have created the whole house at once.
He was eventually led to see, that as the stones had
no weight, the conditions were different from those
obtaining in physical life, and so he was induced to
investigate further.
Similarly, a man new to the conditions of astral life I L II 196.
may continue to enter and depart from a room by a
door or window, not realising that he can pass through
the wall just as easily. For the same reason he may
walk upon the earth when he might just as well float
through the air.
A man who has already during earth life acquainted 1 L 1'{ 3-4·
himself, by reading or otherwise, with the general
conditions of astral life, naturally finds himself after
death on ground more or less familiar, and consequently
be should not be at a loss to know what to do with
himself.
Even an intelligent appreciation of occult teaching 0 S D 4z.
on this subject, as experience has shown, is of enormous
advantage to a man after death, while it is a consider-
able advantage for a man merely to have heard of the
conditions of astral life, even though he may have
regarded such teachings as one of many hypotheses,
and may not have followed them up further. In 1 L 11 3-4.
the case of others, not so fortunately situated as to
their knowledge of the astral world, their best plan is
to take stock of their position, endeavour to see the
nature of the life before them, and how they can make
the best use of it. In addition, they would do well to
consult some experienced friend.
n6 THE ASTRAL BODY
LAD49.
A P ..6.
1 H 75-76.
() S D 83.
D A 24-25:
l7: 30.
A W7<f:
107-108.
The conditions of life referred to above constitute
Kamaloka, literally the place or world of Kama or
desire: the Limbus of scholastic theology. In general
terms Kamaloka is a region peopled by intelligent and
semi-intelligent entities. It is crowded with many
types and forms of living things, as diverse from each
other as a blade of grass is different from a tiger, a
tiger is different from a man, there being of course,
many other entities living there besidesdeceased human
beings (see Chapters XIX-XXI). It interpenetrates
the physical world, and is interpenetrated by it, but,
as the states of matter in the two worlds differ, they
co-exist without the entities of either world being
conscious of those of the other. Only under abnormal
circumstances can consciousness of each other's
presence arise among the inhabitants of the two
worlds.
Kamaloka is thus not .:livided off as a distinct
locality, but is separated off from the rest of the astral
plane by the conditions of consciousnessof the entities
who belong to it, these entities being human beings,
who have shaken off the dense and etheric bodies, but
who have not yet disentangled themselves from Kama,
i.e., the passional and emotional nature. This state
is also called Pretaloka, a preta being a human being
who has lost his physical body, but is still encumbered
with the vesture of his animal nature.
The Kamalokic condition is found on each sub-
division of the astral plane.
Many who die are at first in a condition of consider-
able uneasiness, and others of positive terror. When
they encounter the thought-forms which they and their
kind have for centuries been making-thoughts of a
personal devil, an angry and cruel deity, and eternal
punishment-they are often reduced to a pitiable
state of fear, and may spend long periods of acute
mental suffering before they can free themselves from
the fatal influence of such foolish and utterly false
conceptions.
1 H 7~77. It ought, however, in fairness to be mentioned that
OSD 14-16.
AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PRINCIPLES
it is only among what are called Protestant communi-
ties that this terrible evil assumes its most aggravated
form. The great Roman Catholic Church, with its
doctrine of purgatory, approaches much more nearly to
a true conception of the astral plane, and its devout
members, at any rate, realise that the state in which
they find themselves shortly after death is merely a
temporary one, and that it is their business to endea-
vour to raise themselves out of it as soon as may be
by intense spiritual aspiration, while they accept any
sufferingwhich may come to them as necessary for the
wearing away of the imperfections in their character,
before they can pass to higher and brighter spheres.
Thus we see that although men should have been
taught by their religion what to expect, and how to
live on the astral plane, in most cases this has not been
done. Consequently a good deal of explanation is
needed regarding the new world in which they find
themselves. But, after death, exactly as before it,
there are few who attain to an intelligent appreciation
of the fact of evolution and who, by understanding
something of their position, know how to make the
best of it. To-day, large numbers of people, both
"living" and" dead," are engaged in looking after and
helping those who have died in ignorance of the real
nature of the after-death life (vide Chapter XXVIII
on Invisible Helpers). Unfortunately, however, on
the astral plane, as on the physical, the ignorant are
rarely ready to profit by the advice or example of the
wise.
To a man who has, before he dies physically, already 1 z 11 28.
acquainted himself with the real conditions of life on T B 76•
the astral plane, one of the most pleasant character-
istics of that lifeis its restfulness and complete freedom
from those imperious necessities, such as eating and
drinking, which burden physical life. On the astral
plane a man is really free, free to do whatever he likes,
and to spend his time as he chooses.
As already indicated, a man who has died physically, L.If D 10.
is steadily withdrawing into himself. The whole cycle
JIS THE ASTRAL BODY
of life and death may be likened to an ellipse, of which
only the lowest portion passes into the physical world.
During the first portion of the cycle, the ego is putting
himself forth into matter: the central point of the curve
should be a middle point in physical life, when the
force of the ego has expended its outward rush and
turns to begin the long process of withdrawal.
os D 89. Thus each physical incarnation may be regarded as a
putting of the ego, whose habitat is the higher part of
the mental plane, outwards into the lower planes.
The ego puts the soul out, as though it were an invest-
ment, and expects his investment to draw back added
experience, which will have developed new qualities
within him.
LAD u. The portion of the life after death spent on the astral
plane is therefore definitely in the period of with-
drawal back towards the ego. During the latter part
of the physical life the man's thoughts and interests
should be less and less directed towards merely physical
matters: similarly, during the astral life, he should
pay less and less attention to the lower astral matter,
out of which counterparts of physical objects are
composed, and occupy himself with the higher matter,
out of which desire- and thought-forms are made. It
is not so much that he has changed his location in
space (though this is partially true, see Chapter XIV),
as that he has moved the centre of his interest. Hence
the counterpart of the physical world which he has left
gradually fades from his view, and his life becomes
more and more a life in the world of thought. His
desires and emotions still persist, and consequently,
owing to the readiness with which astral matter obeys
his desires and thoughts, the forms surrounding him
will be very largely the expression of his own feelings,
the nature of which mainly determines whether his
life is one of happiness or of discomfort.
S p 41. Although we are not in this book dealing with that
portion of the life after death which is spent in the
" heaven-world," i.e., on the mental plane, nevertheless,
in order to understand fully what is happening to the
AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PRINCIPLES
astral body on the astral plane, it is desirable to bear
in mind that the astral life is largely an intermediate
stage in the whole cycle of life and death, a preparation
for the life on the mental plane.
As we have seen, soon after physical death, the
astral body is set free: expressed from the point of
view of consciousness, Kama-Manas is set free. From
this, that portion of lower-manas, which is not inex-
tricably entangled with Kama, gradually frees itself,
taking with it such of its experiences as are fit for
assimilation by the higher mental body.
Meanwhile, that portion of the lower manas which S P ..a.
still remains entangled with Kama, gives to the astral
body a somewhat confused consciousness, a broken
memory of the events of the life just closed. If the
emotions and passions were strong, and the mental
element weak, then the astral body will be strongly
energised, and will persist for a considerable time on
the astral plane. It will also show a considerable
amount of consciousness, due to the mental matter
entangled with it. If, on the other hand, the earth
life just closed was charactarised by mentality and
purity rather than by passion, the astral body will be
poorly energised, will be but a pale simulacrum of the
man, and will disintegrate and perish comparatively
rapidly.
II9
1L II 18-19.
I H 78.
CHAPTER XIV
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS
1 L II 14-15. IN considering the conditions of a man's astral life,
there are two prominent factors to be taken into
account: (I) The length of time which he spends on
any particular sub-plane: (2) The amount of his con-
sciousness upon it.
The length of time depends upon the amount of
matter belonging to that sub-plane which he has built
into lus astral body during physical life. He will
necessarily remain upon that sub-plane until the
matter corresponding to it has dropped out of his
astral body.
During physical life, as we have already seen, the
quality of the astral body which he builds for himself
is directly determined by his passions, desires and
emotions, and indirectly by his thoughts, as well as by
his physical habits-food, drink, cleanliness,continence,
etc. A coarse and gross astral body, resulting from a
coarse and grosslife, willcause the man to be responsive
only to lower astral vibrations, so that after death he
will find himself bound to the astral plane during the
long and slow process of the disintegration of the astral
body.
On the other hand, a refined astral body, created by
a pure and refined life, will make the man unresponsive
to the low and coarse vibrations of the astral world,
and responsive only to its higher influences: con-
sequently he will experience much less trouble in his
post-mortem life,and his evolution will proceedrapidly
and easily.
The amount of consciousness depends upon the degree
to which he has vivified and used the matter of the
particular sub-plane in his physical life.
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS 121
If during earth-life the animal nature was indulged 5 P ZG-U.
and allowed to run riot, if the intellectual and spiritual 1 H 7
8.
parts were neglected or stifled, then the astral or
desire body will persist for a long time after physical
death.
If, on the other hand, desire has been conquered and
bridled during earth life, if it has been purified and
trained into subservience to the higher nature, then
there will be little to energise the astral body, and it
will quickly disintegrate and dissolve away.
The average man, however, has by no means freed A P 39.
himself from all lower desires before death, and con-
sequently it takes a long period of more or less fully
conscious life on the various sub-planes of the astral
plane to allow the forces which he has generated to
work themselves out, and thus release the higher ego.
The general principle is that when the astral body A P -41.
has exhausted its attractions to one level, the greater
part of its grosser particles fall away, and it finds itself
in affinity with a somewhat higher state of existence.
Its specific gravity, as it were,is constantly decreasing,
and so it steadily rises from the dense to the lighter
strata, pausing only when it is exactly balanced for a
time.
To be upon any given sub-plane in the astral world 1 L 11 211-
is to have developed sensitiveness of those particles in 212.
the astral body which belong to that sub-plane. To
have perfect vision on the astral plane means to have
developed sensitiveness in all particles of the astral
body, so that all the sub-planes are simultaneously
visible.
A man who has led a good and pure life, whose A P 38.
strongest feelings and aspirations have been unselfish
and spiritual, will have no attraction to the astral
plane, and will, if entirely left alone, find little to keep
him upon it, or to awaken him into activity even
during the comparatively short period of his stay.
His earthly passions having been subdued during A P 39.
physical life, and the force of his will having been
directed into higher channels, there is but little energy
IU THE ASTRAL BODY
of lower desire to be worked out on the astral plane.
Consequently his stay there will be very short, and
most probably he will have little more than a dreamy
half-consciousness, until he sinks into the sleep during
which his higher principles finally free themselves from
the astral body, and enter upon the blissful life of the
heaven-world.
Expressed more technically, during physical life
Manas has purified Kama with which it was inter-
woven, so that after death all that is left of Klma is
a mere residuum, easily shaken off by the withdrawing
ego. Such a man therefore would have little conscious-
ness on the astral plane.
rL 1114-15. It is quite possible that It man might, as a result of
..4 p 44-45· his previous incarnations, possess a good deal of coarse
..4 W u3-
us. astral matter in his astral body. Even if he has been
so brought up, and has so conducted his life, that he
has not vivified that coarse matter, and although much
of it may have dropped out and been replaced by finer
materials, yet there may be quite a good deal left.
Consequently the man would have to remain on a low
level of the astral plane for some time, until in fact
the coarse matter had all dropped out. But, as
the coarse matter would not be vivified, he would have
little consciousness and would practically sleep through
the period of his sojourn there.
There is a point known as the critical point between
every pair of sub-states of matter : ice may be raised
to a point at which the least increment of heat will
change it into liquid: water may be raised to a
point at which the least increment of heat will change
it into vapour. And so each sub-state of astral
matter may be carried to a point of fineness at which
any additional refinement would transform it into the
next higher sub-state. If a man has done this for
every sub-state of matter in his astral body, so that it
is purified to the last possible degree of delicacy, then
the first touch of disintegrating force shatters its
cohesion and resolves it into its original condition,
leaving him free at once to pass on to the next sub-
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS 123
plane. His passage through the astral plane will thus
be of inconceivable rapidity, and he will flash through
the plane practically instantaneously to the higher
state of the heaven-world.
Every person after death has to pass through all the A P 39.
sub-planes of the astral plane, on his way to the heaven-
world. But whether or not he is conscious on any or
all of them, and to what extent, will depend upon the
factors enumerated.
For these reasons, it is clear that the amount of A P 38.
consciousness a man may possess on the astral plane,
and the time he may spend there in his passage to the
heaven-world, may vary within very wide limits.
There are some who pass only a few hours or days on
the astral plane: others remain there for many years,
or even centuries.
For an ordinary person 20 or 30 years on the astral H 5 1 44%
plane after death is a faic average. An exceptional 434·
case is that of Queen Elizabeth, who had so intense
a love of her country that she has only quite recently
passed into the heaven-world, having spent the time
since her death in endeavouring, until recently almost
without success, to impress upon her successors her
ideas of what ought to be done for England.
Another notable example was that of Queen Victoria, os D 7%.
who passed very rapidly through the astral plane and
into the heaven-world, her swift passage being un-
doubtedly due to the millions of loving and grateful
thought-forms which were sent to her, as well as to her
inherent goodness.
The general question of the interval between earth-
lives is complicated. It is possible here to touch
briefly only on the astral portion of those intervals.
For further details the student is referred to The Inner
Life, Vol. II., pages 458-474.
Three principal factors have to be taken into 1 L 11 461•
account :-
(I) The class of ego.
(2) The mode of individualisation,
(3) The length and nature of the last earth-life.
124
1 L 11 471-
47:1·
H S 1444.
T B75.
1 L 1118-1g,
1 H78.
1 L1124.
1 L 11. 2So
THE ASTRAL BODY
Generally speaking, a man who dies young will have
a shorter interval than one who dies in old age, but
is likely to have a proportionately longer astral life,
because most of the strong emotions which work them-
selves out in astral life are generated in the earlier part
of the physical life.
It must be recollected that in the astral world our
ordinary methods of time-measurement scarcelyapply:
even in physical life anxiety or pain will stretch a few
hours almost indefinitely, and on the astral plane this
characteristic is exaggerated a hundred-fold.
A man on the astral plane can measure time only by
his sensations. From a distortion of this fact has come
the false idea of eternal damnation.
We have thus seen that both (I) the time spent, and
(2) the amount of consciousness experienced, on each
level of the astral plane depend very largely upon the
kind of life the man has led in the physical world.
Another factor of great importance is the man's atti-
tude of mind after physical death.
The astral life may be directed by the will, just as
the physical life may be. A man with little will-power
or initiative is, in the astral as in the physical world,
very much the creature of the surroundings which he
has made for himself. A determined man, on the
other hand, can always make the best of his conditions
and live his own life in spite of them.
A man, therefore, does not rid himself of evil ten-
dencies in the astral world, unless he definitely works
to that end. Unless he makes definite efforts, he will
necessarily suffer from his inability to satisfy such
cravings as can be gratified only by means of a physical
body. In process of time the desires will wear them-
selves out and die down simply because of the impossi-
bility of their fulfilment.
The process. however. may be greatly expedited as
soon as the man realises the necessity of ridding himself
of the evil desires which detain him, and makes the
requisite effort. A man who is ignorant of the true
state of affairs usually broods over his desires, thus
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS 125
lengthening their life, and clings desperately to the
gross particles of astral matter as long as he can, because
the sensations connected with them seem nearest to
the physical life for which he still craves. The proper
procedure for him, of course, is to kill out earthly
desires and to withdraw into himself as quickly as
possible.
Even a merely intellectual knowledge of the con- 1 L IT. 2.5-
ditions, of astral life, and, in fact, of Theosophical :16.
truths in general, is of inestimable value to a man in
the after-death life.
It is of the utmost importance that after physical 1 L 1119-21.
death a man should recognise quite clearly that he is 1 H 78- @
O.
OS D 60.
withdrawing steadily towards the ego, and that conse-
quently he should disengage his thoughts as far as may
be from things physical and fix his attention upon
spiritual matters which will occupy him when, in due
time, he passes from the astral plane into the mental
or heaven-world.
By adopting this attitude he will greatly facilitate
the natural disintegration of the astral body instead
of unnecessarily and uselessly delaying himsell upon
the lower levels of the astral plane.
Many people, unfortunately, refuse to turn their
thoughts upwards, but cling to earthly matters with
desperate tenacity. As time passes on, they gradually,
in the normal course of evolution, lose touch with the
lower worlds: but by fighting every step of the way
they cause themselves much unnecessary suffering and
seriously delay their upward progress.
In this ignorant opposition to the natural course
of things the possession of a physical corpse is of
assistance to a man, the corpse serving as a kind of
fulcrum on the physical plane. The best remedy for
this tendency is cremation, which destroys the link
with the physical plane.
A few typical examples of astral after-death life will LAD 12.
best illustrate the nature and rationale of that life. ~, ~ (~. 14-
An ordinary colourless man, neither specially good .If W 12Z-
nor specially bad, is of course in no way changed by 12,).
126 THE ASTRAL BODY
death, but remains colourless. Consequently, he will
have no special suffering and no special joy: in fact.
he may find life somewhat dull, because, having culti-
vated no particular interests during his physical life,
he has none in his astral life.
If during his physical life he had no ideas beyond
gossip, sport, business or dress, he will naturally, when
these are no longer possible, be likely to find time hang
heavily on his hands.
A man, however, who has had strong desires of a
low type, who has been, for example, a drunkard or a
sensualist, will be in far worse case. Not only will
his cravings and desires remain with him (it will be
recollected that the centres of sensation are situated,
not in the physical body, but in Kama, see page 24),
but they will be stronger than ever, because their full
force is expressed in astral matter, none of it being
absorbed in setting in motion the heavy physical par-
ticles.
o 5 D 66. Being in the lowest and most depraved condition of
astral life, such a man seems often to be still sufficiently
near to the physical to be sensitive to certain odours,
though the titillation produced is only sufficient still
further to excite his mad desires and to tantilise him
to the verge of frenzy.
LA D I2-J30 But, as he no longer possesses a physical body,
through which alone his cravings can be allayed, he
has no possibility of gratifying his terrible thirsts.
Hence the innumerable traditions of the fires of purga-
tory, found in nearly every religion, which are no inapt
symbols for the torturing conditions described. Such
a condition may last for quite a long time, since it
passes away only by gradually wearing itself out.
The rationale and automatic justice of the whole
process is clear: the man has created his conditions
himself, by his own actions, and determined the exact
degree of their power and duration. Furthermore. it
is the only way in which he can get rid of his vices.
For, if he were to be reincarnated immediately, he
would start his next life precisely as he finished the
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS
preceding one: i.e., a slave to his passions and appe-
tites: and the possibility of his ever becoming master
of himself would be immeasurably reduced. But, as
things are, his cravings having worn themselves out,
he will be able to commence his next incarnation
without the burden of them: and his ego, having had
so severe a lesson, is likely to make every possible
effort to restrain its lower vehicles from again making
a similar mistake.
A confirmed drunkard will sometimes be able to 1 L 116.
draw round himself a veil of etheric matter, and thus ~:~'l66.
partially materialise himself. He can then draw in
the odour of the alcohol, but he does not smell it in the
same sense as we do. Hence he is anxious to force
others into the condition of drunkenness, so that he
may be able partially to enter their physical bodies and
obsess them, through their bodies being once more
able to experience directly the tastes and other sensa-
tions for which he craves.
Obsession may be permanent or temporary. As 1 L 1 ..79-
just mentioned, a dead sensualist may seize upon any ..80.
vehicle he can steal in order to gratify his coarse
desires. At other times a man may obsess someone as
a calculated act of revenge: a case is recorded where
a man obsessed the daughter of his enemy.
Obsession can be best prevented or resisted by an 1 L 1 ..Po...
exercise of will-power. When it occurs it is almost 0 S D "°3·
always because the victim has in the first place volun-
tarily yielded himself to the invading influence, and
his first step therefore is to reverse the act of sub-
mission. The mind should be set steadily against the
obsession in determined resistance, realising strongly
that the human will is stronger than any evil influence.
Such obsession is of course utterly unnatural and
in the highest degree harmful to both parties.
The effect of excessive tobacco-smoking on the H S 11 'll.
astral body after death is remarkable. The poison
so fills the astral body that it stiffens under its
influence and is unable to work properly or to move
freely. For the time, the man is as though paralysed-
128
r L 1:.96.
OS D 1,5.
LA DI3-1",
ILlu:\-
128.
OS D 65:
70·
ILl 126-
12 7.
OS D 52.
T B'/6.
TB76·
THE ASTRAL BODY
able to speak, yet debarred from movement, and almost
entirely cut off from higher influences. When the
poisoned part of his astral body wears away, he
emerges from this unpleasant predicament.
The astral body changes its particles, just as does
the physical body, but there is nothing to correspond
to eating and digesting food. The astral particles
which fall away are replaced by others from the
surrounding atmosphere, The pu,ely physical cravings
of hunger and thirst no longer exist there: but the
desi,e of the glutton to gratify the sensation of taste,
and the desire of the drunkard for the feelings which
follow the absorption of alcohol, being both astral, still
persist: and, as already stated, they may cause great
suffering owing to the absence of the physical body
through which alone they could be satisfied.
Many myths and traditions exist, exemplifying the
conditions described. One of them is that of Tantalus,
who suffered from raging thirst, yet was doomed to see
the water recede just as it was about to touch his lips.
Another, typifying ambition, is that of Sisyphus, con-
demned to roll a heavy rock up a mountain, only to
see it roll down again. The rock represents ambitious
plans which such a man continues to form, only to
realise that he has no physical body with which to
carry them out. Eventually he wears out his selfish
ambition, realises that he need not roll his rock, and
lets it rest in peace at the bottom of the hill.
Another story was that of Tityus, a man who was
tied to a rock, his liver being gnawed by vultures, and
growing again as fast as it was eaten. This symbolised
a man tortured by the gnawings of remorse for sins
committed on earth.
The worst that the ordinary man of the world usually
provides for himself after death is a useless and un-
utterably wearisome existence, void of all rational
interests-the natural sequel of a life wasted in self-
indulgence, triviality and gossip here on earth.
The only things for which he craves are no longer
possible to him, for in the astral world there is no
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS 129
business to be done, and, though he may have as much
companionship as he wishes, society is now for him
a very different matter, because all the pretensions
upon which it is usually based in this world are no
longer possible.
Man thus makes for himself both his own purgatory T B 6"~5.
and his own heaven, and these are not places but states
of consciousness. Hell does not exist: it is only a
figment of the theological imagination. Neither pur-
gatory nor heaven can ever be eternal, for a finite
cause cannot produce an infinite result.
Nevertheless, the conditions of the worst type of A W u3-
man alter death are perhaps best described by the word U4-
.. hell," though they are not everlasting. Thus, for
example, it sometimes happens that a murderer is
followed about by his victim, never being able to escape
from his haunting presence. The victim (unless him-
self of a very base type) is wrapped in unconsciousness,
and this very unconsciousness seems to add a new
horror to the mechanical pursuit.
Such conditions are not produced arbitrarily, but A W 124-
are the inevitable result of causes set in operation by 125·
each person. Nature's lessons are sharp, but in the
long run they are merciful, for they lead to the evolution
of the soul, being strictly corrective and salutary.
For most people the state after death is much T B 76.
happier than life upon earth. The first feeling of
which the dead man is usually conscious is one of the
most wonderful and delightful freedom; he has
nothing to worry about, and no duties rest upon him,
except those which he chooses to impose upon himself.
Regarded from this point of view, it is clear that
there is ample justification for the assertion that people
physically" alive," buried and cramped as they are in
physical bodies, are in the true sense far less .. alive"
than those usually termed dead. The so-called dead
are much more free and, being less hampered by
material conditions, are able to work far more effec-
tively and to cover a wider field of activity.
A man who, not having permitted the re-arrangement T D 113.
13°
T B 71.
LA D 14-1'.
OS D 76-78.
THE ASTRAL BODY
of his astral body, is free of the entire astral world,
does not find it inconveniently crowded, because the
astral world is much larger than the surface of the
physical earth, while its population is somewhat
smaller, the average life of humanity in the astral
world being shorter than the average in the physical.
In addition to the dead, there are also, of course, on
the astral plane about one-third of the living, who
have temporarily left the physical body during sleep.
Although the whole astral plane is open to any of its
inhabitants who have not permitted the re-arrangement
of their astral bodies, yet the great majority remain near
the surface of the earth.
Passing to a higher type of man, we may consider
one who has some interests of a rational nature, e.g.,
music, literature, science, etc. The need to spend a
large proportion of each day in "earning a living" no
longer existing, the man is free to do precisely what he
likes, so long as it is capable of realisation without
physical matter. In the astral life it is possible not
only to listen to the grandest music but to hear far
more of it than before, because there are in the astral
world other and fuller harmonies than the relatively
dull physical ears can hear. For the artist, all the
loveliness of the higher astral world is open for his
enjoyment. A man can readily and rapidly move
from place to place and see the wonders of Nature,
obviously far more easily than he could ever do on the
physical plane. If he is a historian or a scientist, the
libraries and the laboratories of the world are at his
disposal: his comprehension of natural processes will
be far fuller than ever before, because he can now see
the inner as well as the outer workings, and many of
the causes where previously he saw only the effects.
In all these cases his delight is greatly enhanced,
because no fatigue is possible (see p. 82).
A philanthropist can pursue his beneficent work
more vigorously than ever before and under better
conditions than in the physical world. There are
thousands whom he can help, and with greater certainty
of conferring real benefit.
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS 131
It is quite possible for any person upon the astral r L II 101-
plane after death to set himself to study, and to 101.
acquire entirely new ideas. Thus, people may learn
of Theosophy for the first time in the astral world. A
case is on record even of a person learning music there,
though this is unusual.
In general, life on the astral plane is more active .A W 73-
than on the physical plane, astral matter being more
highly vitalised than physical matter, and form being
more plastic. The possibilities on the astral plane, os D 51-53.
both of enjoyment and of progress, are in every way 131- 133.
much greater than those on the physical plane. But
the possibilities are of a higher class, and it needs a
certain amount of intelligence to take advantage of
them. A man who has whilst on earth devoted the
whole of his thought and energy solely to material
things, is little likely to be able to adapt himself to
more advanced conditions, as his semi-atrophied mind
will not be strong enough to grasp the wider possi-
bilities of the grander life.
A man whose life and interests are of a higher type
may be able to do more good in a few years of astral
existence than ever he could have done in the longest
physical life.
Astral pleasures being so much greater than those 1 L 11 117.
of the physical world, there is danger of people being
turned aside by them from the path of progress. But
even the delights of the astral life do not present a
serious danger to those who have realised a little of
something higher. After death a man should try to
pass through the astral levels as speedily as possible,
consistently with usefulness, and not yield to their
refined pleasures any more than to those of the
physica.l.
Any developed man is in every way quite as active 1 L 11 65.
during astral life after death as during his physical
life: he can unquestionably help or hinder his own
progress and that of others quite as much after death
as before,and consequently he is all the time generating
karma of the greatest importance.
In fact, the consciousness of a man living entirely I L II 71.
132
I L tt 51~
520 •
I L 11 7-8.
A P 42.
11.11 II.
H51129·
I L II 21.
1 L II 7-8.
THE ASTRAL BODY
in the astral world is usuaUy much more definite than
it has been during his sleep astral life, and he is corre-
spondingly better able to think and act with determi-
nation, so that his opportunities of making good or bad
karma are the greater.
It may be said in general that a man can make
karma wherever his consciousness is developed, or
wherever he can act or choose. Thus actions done on
the astral plane may bear karmic fruit in the next
earth life.
On the lowest astral sub-plane a man, having other
things to occupy his attention, concerns himself little
with what takes place in the physical world, except
when he haunts vile resorts.
On the next sub-plane, the sixth, are found men who,
whilst alive, centred their desires and thoughts chiefly
in mere worldly affairs. Consequently, they still hover
about the persons and places with which they were most
closely associated while on earth, and may be conscious
of many things in connection with these. They never,
however, see physical matter itself, but always the
astral counterpart of it.
Thus, for example, a theatre full of people has its
astral counterpart, which is visible to astral entities.
They would not, however, be able to see, as we see
them, either the costumes or the expressions of the
actors, and the emotions of the players, being not real
but simulated, would make no impression on the astral
plane.
Those on the sixth sub-plane, which is on the
surface of the earth, find themselves surrounded by the
astral counterparts of physically existing mountains,
trees, lakes, etc.
On the next two sub-planes, the fifth and fourth,
this consciousness of physical affairs is also possible,
though in rapidly diminishing degree.
On the next two sub-planes, the third and second,
contact with the physical plane could be obtained only
by a special effort to communicate through a medium.
From the highest, the first sub-plane, even com-
munication through a medium would be very difficult.
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS 133
1 L 1355-
356.
A W J31-
132 •
T B 8:Z~3.
Those living on the higher sub-planes usually provide 1 L 11 27.
themselves with whatever scenes they desire. Thus in
one portion of the astral world men surround themselves
with landscapes of their own creation: others accept
ready-made the landscapes which have already been
constructed by others. (A description of the various
levels or sub-planes will be given in Chapter XVI.)
In some cases men construct for themselves the 1 L 1127-28.
weird scenes described in their various religious scrip-
tures, manufacturing clumsy attempts at jewels grow-
ing on trees, seas of glass mingled with fire, creatures
full of eyes within, and deities with a hundred heads
and arms.
In what the Spiritualists call the Summerland, people
of the same race and the same religion tend to keep
together after death just as they do during life, so that
there is a kind of network of summerlands over the
countries to which belong the persons who have created
them, communities being formed, differing as widely
from each other as do similar communities on earth.
This is due not only to natural affinity but also to the
fact that barriers of language still exist on the astral
plane.
This principle applies, in fact, to the astral plane in 0 S D zoo
general. Thus, at spiritualistic seances in Ceylon, it
was found that the communicating entities were
Buddhists. and that beyond the grave they had found
their religiouspreconceptions confirmed, exactly as had
the members of various Christian sects in Europe.
Menfindon the astral plane not only their own thought- 0 S D 81.
forms, but those made by others-these, in some cases,
being the product of generations of thought from
thousands of people, all followingalong the same lines.
It is not uncommon for parents to endeavour to H S 1435.
impress their wishes on their children, e.g., with regard 0 S D 79.
to some particular alliance on which their heart is set.
Such an influence is insidious, an ordinary man being
likely to take the steady pressure for his own sub-
conscious desire.
In many cases the dead have constituted themselves
guardian angels to the living, mothers often protecting
134 THE ASTRAL BODY
M 109-110.
1 L II 8-9.
H S r 43.5-
436•
their sons, husbands their widows, and so on, for many
years.
In other cases a dead writer or musical composer
may impress his ideas upon a writer or composerin the
physical world, so that many books credited to the
living are really the work of the dead. The person
who actually executes the writing may be consciousof
the influence, or may be entirely unconscious of it.
One leading novelist has stated that his stories come
to him he knows not whence-that they are in reality
written not by him, but through him. He recognises
the state of affairs: there are probably many others
in the same case who are quite unconscious of it.
H S II 237. A doctor who dies often continues after death to
take an interest in his patients, endeavouring to cure
them from the other side, or to suggest to his successor
methods of treatment which, with his newly-acquired
astral faculties, he sees would be useful.
Whilst most ordinary "good" people, who die natural
deaths, are unlikely to be conscious of anything
physical at all, as they sweep through all the lower
stages before awakening to astral consciousness, yet
some, even of these, may be drawn back into touch with
the physical world by great anxiety about someone
left behind.
rL 119-10. The grief of relatives and friends may also attract
o 5 D 104· the attention of one who has passed to the astral plane,
and tend to draw him down into touch with earth life
again. This downward tendency grows with use and
the man is likely to exert his will to keep in touch with
the physical world. For a time his power of seeing
earthly things will increase; but presently it will
diminish, and then he will probably suffer mentally as
he feels his power slipping from him.
A p 47-48. In many cases people not only cause themselves an
g;rJ1~~8: immense amount of wholly unnecessary pain, but often
43-4'· also do serious injury to those for whom they mourn
13P.~ 137- with intense and uncontrolled grief.
T P 129-'!30. During the whole period of the astral plane life,
D .4 31. whether it be long or short, the man is within the reach
of earth influences. In the cases just mentioned the
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: PARTICULARS
passionate sorrow and desires of friends on earth would
set up vibrations in the astral body of the man who had
died, and so reach and rouse his mind or lower manas,
Thus aroused from his dreamy state to vivid remem-
brance of earth life, he may endeavour to communicate
with his earth friends, possibly through a medium. Such
an awakening is often accompanied by acute suffering,
and in any event the natural process of the ego's with-
drawal is delayed.
Occult teaching does not for a moment counsel
forgetfulness of the dead: but it does suggest that
affectionate remembrance of the dead is a force which,
if properly directed towards helping his progress
towards the heaven-world, and his passage through
the intermediate state, might be of real value to him,
whereas mourning is not only useless but harmful. It
is with a true instinct that the Hindu religion prescribes
its Shraddha ceremonies and the Catholic Church its
prayers for the dead.
Prayers, with their accompanying ceremonies, create
elementals which strike against the Klmalokic entity's
astral body, and hasten its disintegration, thus speeding
him on towards the heaven-world.
When, for example, a Mass is offered with a definite
intention of helping a dead person, that person will
undoubtedly benefit by the downpouring of force:
the strong thought about him inevitably attracts his
attention, and when he is drawn to the Church he takes
part in the ceremony and enjoys a large share in its
results. Even if he be still unconscious, the priest's
will and prayer directs the stream of force towards the
person concerned.
Even the earnest general prayer or wish for the good
of the dead as a whole, though likely to be vague and
therefore less efficientthan a more definite thought, has
yet in the aggregate produced an effect whose im-
portance it would be difficult to exaggerate. Europe
little knows how much it owes to those great religious
orders who devote themselves night and day to. cease-
less prayer for the faithful departed.
135
H S I 261:
34/)·
H S 1124.5.
OS D 17.
OS D 17.
CHAPTER XV
THE AFTER~DEATH LIFE: SPECIAL CASES
1 L 11 5. THERE is practically no difference between the con-
sciousness of a psychic after death and that of an
ordinary person, except that the psychic, being
probably more familiar with astral matter, will feel
more at home in his new environment. To be psychic
means to possess a physical body in some .....ays more
sensitive than those of most people: consequently,
when the physical body is dropped, this inequality no
longer exists.
t L 1115-16. A sudden death, such as from an accident, need not
OS D 36-37· necessarily affect the astral life in any way for the
worse. At the same time, for most people, a more
natural death is preferable, because the slow wasting
away of the aged or the ravages of a long-continued
illness are almost invariably accompanied by a con-
siderable loosening and breaking up of the astral
particles, so that when the man recovers consciousness
upon the astral plane, he finds some, at any rate, of his
principal work there already done for him.
S P :ao. In most cases, when earth life is suddenly cut short
by accident or suicide, the link between kama (desire)
and prana (vitality) is not easily broken, and the
astral body is consequently strongly vivified.
..f P ". The withdrawal of the principles from their physical
encasement, owing to sudden death of any kind, has
been aptly compared to the tearing of the stone out
of an unripe fruit. A great deal of the grossest kind
of astral matter still clings around the personality,
which is consequently held in the seventh or lowest
astral sub-plane.
t L 11 16. The mental terror and disturbance which some-
:1::115- times accompany accidental death are, of course, a
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: SPECIAL CASES 131
very unfavourable preparation for astral life. In
certain rare cases the agitation and terror may persist
for some time after death.
The victims of capital punishment. apart from the D A 38.
injury done to them by suddenly wrenching from the TN P90-9I.
physical the astral body, throbbing with feelings of
hatred, passion, revenge, and so forth, constitute a
peculiarly dangerous element in the astral world.
Unpleasant to society as a murderer in his physical
body may be, he is clearly far more dangerous when
suddenly expelled from the body: and, whilst society
may protect itself from murderers in the physical body,
it is at present defenceless against murderers suddenly
projected on to the astral plane in the fullllush of their
passions.
Such men may well act as the instigators of other C W 96.
murders. It is well known that murders of a particular
kind are sometimes repeated over and over again in the
same community.
The position of the suicide is further complicated by A P 51.
the fact that his rash act has enormously diminished
the power of the higher ego to withdraw its lower
portion into itself, and therefore has exposed him to
other and great dangers. Nevertheless it must be
remembered, as already said, that the guilt of suicide
differs considerably according to circumstances, from
the morally blameless act of Socrates through all
degrees down to that of a wretch who commits
suicide in order to escape the physical results of his
own crimes, and, of course, the position after death
varies accordingly.
The karmic consequences of suicide are usually 1 L 11 12-14.
momentous: they are certain to affect the next life, ~_~8?~77:
and probably more lives than one. It is a crime
against Nature to interfere with the prescribed period
appointed for living on the physical life. For every
man has an appointed life-term, determined by an
intricate web of prior causes-i.e.. by karma-and
that term must run out its appointed sands, before the
dissolution of the personality.
138 THE ASTRAL BODY
The attitude of mind at the time of death determines
the subsequent position of the person. Thus, there is
a profound difference between one who lays down his
life from altruistic motives and one who deliberately
destroys his life from selfish motives, such as fear, etc.
Pure and spiritually-minded men, who are the
victims of accident, etc., sleep out happily the term of
their natural life. In other cases they remain conscious
-often entangled in the final scene of earth-life for a
time, held in whatever region they are related to by
the outermost layer of their astral body. Their normal
kamalokic life does not begin until the natural web of
earth-life is out-spun, and they are vividly conscious
of both their astral and physical surroundings.
1. A D II). It must not for a moment, therefore, be supposed
o S D ..8. that because of the many superiorities of astral over
physical life, a man is therefore justified in committing
suicide or seeking death. Men are incarnated in
physical bodies for a purpose which can be attained
only in the physical world. There are lessons to be
learnt in the physical world which cannot be learnt any-
where else, and the sooner we learn them the sooner we
shall be free from the need to return to the lower and
more limited life. The ego has to take much trouble
in order to incarnate in a physical body, and also to
live through the wearisome period of early childhood,
during which he is gradually and with much effort
gaining some control over his new vehicles, and there-
fore his efforts should not be foolishly wasted. In this
respect the natural instinct of self-preservation is one
which should be obeyed, it being a man's duty to make
the most of his earthly life and to retain it as long as
circumstances permit,
A p 55-56. If a man, who has been killed suddenly, has led a
low, brutal, selfish and sensual life, he will be fully
conscious on the seventh astral sub-plane, and is liable
to develop into a terribly evil entity. Inflamed with
appetites which he can no longer satisfy, he may
endeavour to gratify his passions through a medium
or any sensitive person whom he can obsess. Such
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: SPECIAL CASES 139
entities take a devilish delight in using all the arts of
astral delusion to lead others into the same excesses
in which they themselves indulged. From this class
and from the vitalised shells (see p. 172) are drawn
the tempters-the devils of ecclesiastical literature.
The following is a strongly worded account of the D A 3'.
victims of sudden death, whether suicides or killed by
accident, when such victims are depraved and gross.
If Unhappy shades, if sinful and sensual, they wander
about . . . until their death-hour comes. Cut off in
the full flush of earthly passions, which bind them to
familiar scenes, they are enticed by opportunities which
mediumsaffordto gratify them vicariously. They are
the Pishachas, the Incubi and Succubee of medieval
times: the demonsofthirst, gluttony, lust and avarice :
elementaries of intensified craft, wickedness and
cruelty: provokingtheir victims to horrid crimes, and
revelling in their commission I ..
Soldierskilledin battle do not quite come under this 0 S D 36.
category, because, whether the cause for which they
are fighting be in the abstract right or wrong, they
think it to be right: to them it is the call of duty, and
they sacrifice their lives willingly and unselfishly. In
spite of its horrors, therefore, war may nevertheless be
a potent factor in evolution at a certain level. This,
also, is the grain of truth in the idea of the Moham-
medan fanatic that the man who dies fighting for the
faith goesstraight to a very goodlifein the next world.
In the case of children dying young, it is unlikely 1 L 11 17.
that they will have developed much affinity for the
lowest sub-divisions of the astral world, and as a
matter of experience they are seldom found on the
lowest astral sub-planes.
Some people cling so desperately to material exist- 1 L 1134-37.
encethat at death their astral bodiescannot altogether
separate from the etheric, and consequently they
awaken still surrounded by etheric matter. Such
persons are in a very unpleasant condition: they are
sbut out {rom the astral world by the etheric shell
whichsurrounds them, and at the same time they are
THE ASTRAL BODY
also, of course, shut off from ordinary physical life
because they have no physical sense-organs.
The result is that they drift about, lonely, dumb
and terrified, unable to communicate with entities on
either plane. They cannot realise that if they would
only let go their frenzied grasp on matter they would
slip, after a few moments of unconsciousness, into the
ordinary life of the astral plane. But they cling to
their grey world, with their miserable half-eonscious-
ness, rather than sink into what they think complete
extinction, or even the hell in which they have been
taught to believe.
In process of time the etheric shell wears out, and the
ordinary course of Nature reasserts itself in spite of
their struggles: sometimes in sheer desperation they
recklessly let themselves go, preferring even the idea
of annihilation to their present existence-with a result
overwhelmingly and surprisingly pleasant.
In a few cases, another astral entity may be able
to help them by persuading them to let go their hold
on what to them is life and sink out of it.
In other cases, they may be so unfortunate as to
discover a means of reviving to some extent their
touch with physical life through a medium, though as
a rule the medium's .. spirit-guide" very properly
forbids them access.
The .. guide" is right in his action, because such
entities, in their terror and need, become quite unscru-
pulous and would obsess and even madden a medium,
fighting as a drowning man fights for life. They
could succeed only if the ego of the medium had
weakened his hold upon his vehicles by allowing the
indulgence of undesirable thoughts or passions.
1 I.113~39. Sometimes an entity may be able to seize upon a
T B 88. baby body, ousting the feeble personality for whom it
was intended, or sometimes even to obsess the body
of an animal, the fragment of the group-soul which,
to an animal, stands in the place of an ego, having a
hold on the body less strong than that of an ego. This
obsession may be complete or partial. The obsessing
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: SPECIAL CASES 141
entity thus once more gets into touch with the physical
plane, sees through the animal's eyes, and feels any
pain inflicted upon the animal-in fact, so far as his
his own consciousness is concerned, he is the animal
for the time being.
A man who thus entangles himself with an animal 1 L 114~41.
cannot abandon the animal's body at will, but only
gradually and by considerable effort, extending prob-
ably over many days. Usually he is set free only at
the death of the animal, and even then there remains an
astral entanglement to shake off. After the death of
the animal such a soul sometimes endeavours to obsess
another member of the same herd, or indeed any other
creature whom he can seize in his desperation. The
animals most commonly seized upon seem to be the
less developed ones---cattle, sheep and swine. More
intelligent creatures, such as dogs, cats and horses do
not appear to be so easily dispossessed, though cases
do occasionallyoccur.
All obsessions, whether of a human or an animal 1 L 11 43-
body, are an evil and a hindrance to the obsessingsoul,
as they temporarily strengthen his hold upon the
material, and so delay his natural progress into the
astral life, besides making undesirable karmic links.
In the case of a man who, by vicious appetite or 1 L 11 30-33.
otherwise, forms a very strong link with any type of
animal, his astral body shows animal characteristics,
and may resemble in appearance the animal whose
qualities had been encouraged during earth life. In
extreme casesthe man may be linked to the astral body
of the animal and thus be chained as a prisoner to the
animal's physical body. The man is conscious in the
astral world, has his human faculties, but cannot
control the animal body nor express himself through
that body on the physical plane. The animal organism
serves as a jailer, rather than as a vehicle: and,
further, the animal soul is not ejected, but remains as
the proper tenant of its body.
Cases of this kind explain, at least partially, the
belief often found in Oriental countries, that a man
OS D 1'4.
S P 45-46-
D If 4z-43.
MBn·
THE ASTRAL BODY
may under certain conditions reincarnate in an animal
body.
A similar fate may befall a man as he returns to the
astral plane on his way to re-birth, and is described in
Chapter XXIV on R,-birlh.
The class of person who is definitely held down to
earth by anxiety is often termed earth-bound: as
St. Martin expressed it, such men are" remainers," not
.. returners," being unable thoroughly to tear them-
selves away from physical matter until some business
is settled in which they have a special interest.
We have already seen that after physical death the
real man is steadily withdrawing himself from his
outer bodies: and that, in particular, manas, or mind,
endeavours to disentangle itself from kAma, or desire.
In certain rare cases, the personality, or lowerman, may
be so strongly controlled by kAma that lower manas is
completely enslaved and cannot disentangle itself.
The link between the lower and the higher mental, the
.. silver thread that binds it to the Master," snaps in
two. This is spoken of in occultism as the " loss of
the soul." It is the loss of the personal self, which has
separated from its parent, the higher ego, and has thus
doomed itself to perish.
In such a case, even during earth-life, the lower
quaternary is wrenched away from the Triad, i.,., the
lower principles, headed by lower manas, are severed
from the higher principles. AtmA, Buddhi and Higher
Manas. The man is rent in twain, the brute has
broken itself free, and it goes forth unbridled, carrying
with it the reSections of that manasic light which
should have been its guide through life. Such a
creature, owing to its possession of mind, is more
dangerous even than an unevolved animal: though
human in form, it is brute in nature, without sense of
truth, love or justice.
After physical death, such an astral body is an
entity of terrible potency, and is unique in this, that
under certain rare conditions it can reincarnate in the
world of men. With no instincts save those of the
THE AFTER-DEATH LIFE: SPECIAL CASES 143
animal, driven only by passion, never even by emotion,
with a cunning that no brute can rival, a wickedness
that is deliberate, it touches ideal vileness, and is the
natural foe of all normal human beings. A being of
this class-which is known as an Elementary-sinks
lower with each successive incarnation, until, as the
evil force gradually wears itself out, it perishes, being
cut off from the source of life. It disintegrates, and
thus as a separate existence is lost.
From the point of view of the ego there has been
no harvest of useful experience from that personality:
the If ray" has brought nothing back, the lower life
has been a total and complete failure.
The word Elementary has been employed by various
writers in many different senses, but it is recommended
that it be confinedto the entity described above.
CHAPTER XVI
THE ASTRAL PLANE
THIS chapter will be confined, so far as the com-
plexities of the subject permit, to a description of the
nature, appearance, properties, etc., of the astral plane
or world. A later chapter will be devoted to an
enumeration and description of the entities which live
in the astral world.
A P 1.5. The intelligent student will recognise the extreme
difficulty of giving in physical language an adequate
description of the astral world. The task has been
compared to that of an explorer of some unknown
tropical forest being asked to give a full account of the
country through which he has passed. The difficulties
of describing the astral world are further complicated
by two factors: (I) the difficulty of correctly trans-
lating from the astral to the physical plane the recollec-
tion of what has been seen: and (2) the inadequacy
of physical plane language to express much of what bas
to be reported.
M B 42. One of the most prominent characteristics of the
.iI w 7f;-77· astral world is that it is full of continuaIly changing
shapes: we find there not only thought-forms, com-
posed of elemental essence and animated by a thought,
but also vast masses of elemental essence from which
continually shapes emerge and into which they again
disappear. The elemental essence exists in hundreds
of varieties on every sub-plane, as though the air were
visible and were in constant undulating motion with
changing colours like mother-of-pearl. Currents of
thought are continually thrilling through this astral
matter, strong thoughts persisting as entities for a long
time, weak ones clothing themselves in elemental
essence and wavering out again.
THE ASTRAL PLANE
We have already seen that astral matter exists in
seven orders of fineness, corresponding to the seven
physical grades of solid. liquid, gaseous, etc. Each of
these seven orders of matter is the basis of one of the
seven levels. sub-divisions, or sub-planes (as they are
variously called) of the astral plane.
It has becomecustomary to speakofthesesevenlevels
as being ranged one above the other, the densest at
the bottom and the finest at the top: and in many
diagrams they are actually drawn in this manner.
There is a basis of truth in this method of representa-
tion, but it is not the whole truth.
The matter of each sub-plane interpenetrates that of
the sub-plane belowit: consequently. at the surface of
the earth, all sevensub-planes exist together in the same
space. Nevertheless, it is also true that the higher
astral sub-planes extend further away from the physical
earth than the lower sub-planes.
A very fair analogy of the relation between the astral
sub-planes exists in the physical world. To a consider-
able extent liquids interpenetrate solids, e.g., water
is found in soil, gases interpenetrate liquids (water
usually contains considerable volumes of air), and so
on. Nevertheless it is substantially true that the bulk
of the liquid matter of the earth lies in seas. rivers, etc.,
above the solid earth. Similarly the bulk of gaseous
matter rests above the surface of the water, and reaches
much further out into space than either solid or liquid.
Similarly with astral matter. By far the densest
aggregation of astral matter lies within the limits of
the physical sphere. In this connection it should be
noted that astral matter obeys the same general laws
as physical matter, and gravitates towards the centre
of the earth.
The seventh or lowest astral sub-plane penetrates
some distance into the interior of the earth, so that the
entities living on it may find themselves actually
within the crust of the earth.
The sixth sub-plane is partially coincident with the
surface of the earth.
145
.d P 17.
A W 74.
I L I 351-
352•
I L II 52.
I L '353.
I L 11 52.
T B 72.
ILI356.
H S 1 ....90
THE ASTRAL BODY
1 L 1 '55. The third sub-plane, which the Spiritualists call the
... p 43- "Summerland," extends many miles up into the
atmosphere.
1 L 1 3.~3. The outer limit of the astral world extends nearly to
I L 11'3-54- the mean distance of the moon's orbit so that at
T B 26-:17. '
perigee the astral planes of the earth and moon usually
touch one another, but not at apogee. (N.B.-The
earth and moon are nearly 240,000 miles apart.)
Hence the name the Greeks gave to the astral plane-
the sub-lunar world.
A P 18. The seven sub-divisions fall naturally into three
groups: (a) the seventh or lowest: (b) the sixth, fifth
and fourth: and (c) the third. second and first. The
difference between members of one group may be com-
pared to that between two solids, e.g., steel and sand,
the difference between the groups may be compared to
that between a solid and a liquid.
.A P :16. Sub-plane 7 has the physical world as its background,
::lO~ 119'" though only a distorted and partial view of it is visible,
since all that is light and good and beautiful seems
invisible. Four thousand years ago the Scribe Ani
described it in an Egyptian papyrus thus: "What
manner of place is this unto which I have come? It
hath no water. it hath no air; it is deep. unfathomable;
it is black as the blackest night, and men wander
helplessly about therein; in it a man may not live in
quietness of heart."
For the unfortunate human being on that level it is
indeed true that .. all the earth is full of darkness and
cruel habitation," but it is darkness which radiates
from within himself and causes his existence to be
passed in a perpetual night of evil and horror-a very
real hell, though, like all other hells, entirely of man's
own creation.
Most students find the investigation of this section
an extremely unpleasant task. for there appears to be
a sense of density and gross materiality about it which
is indescribably loathsome to the liberated astral body,
causing it the sense of pushing its way through some
black, viscous fluid. while the inhabitants and the
THE ASTRAL PLANE 147
influences encountered there are also usually exceed-
ingly undesirable.
The ordinary decent man would probably have little A P 42.
to detain him on the seventh sub-plane, the only A Win.
persons who would normally awake to consciousness
on that sub-plane being those whose desires are gross
and brutal-drunkards, sensualists, violent criminals,
and the like.
Sub-planes 6, 5 and 4 have for their background the A P 18.
physical world with which we are familiar. Life on No.
6 is like ordinary physical life. minus the physical body
and its necessities. Nos. 5 and 4 are less material and
more withdrawn from the lower world and its interests.
As in the case of the physical, the densest astral 1 L 1 358.
matter is far too dense for the ordinary forms of astral
life: but the astral world has other forms of its own
which are quite unknown to students of the surface.
On the fifth and fourth sub-planes, merely earthly A P 42.
associations appear to become of less and less import- A W 129-
ance, and the people there tend more and more to
mould their surroundings into agreement with the more
persistent of their thoughts.
Sub-planes 3. 2 and I. though occupying the same A P 26-27:
space, give the impression of being further removed tls D 84-8,5.
from the physical world and correspondingly less A W 130-
material. At these levels entities lose sight of the ¥i, 80.81.
earth and its affairs: they are usually deeply self-
absorbed. and to a large extent create their own
surroundings, though these are sufficiently objective to
be perceptible to other entities.
They are thus little awake ll> the realities of the
plane, but live instead in imaginary cities of their own,
partly creating them entirely by their own thoughts,
and partly inheriting and adding to the structures
created by their predecessors.
Here are found the happy hunting-grounds of the
Red Indian. the Valhalla of the Norseman, the houri-
filled. paradise of the Muslim, the golden and jewelled-
gated NewJerusalem of the Christian, the lyceum-filled
heaven of the materialistic reformer. Here is also
A P 43.
A W lJJ-
1]3.
A P 43.
A W 133-
135·
OSD86.
THE ASTRAL BODY
the " Summerland .. of the Spiritualists, in which exist
houses, schools, cities, etc., which, real enough as they
are for a time, to a clearer sight are sometimespitiably
unlike what their delighted creators suppose them to
be. Nevertheless, many of the creations are of real
though temporary beauty, and a visitor who knew of
nothing higher might wander contentedly among the
natural scenery provided, which at any rate is much
superior to anything in the physical world: or he
might, of course, prefer to construct his scenery to suit
his own fancies.
The second sub-plane is especially the habitat of the
selfish or unspiritual religionist. Here he wears his
golden crown and worships his own grossly material
representation of the particular deity of his country
and time.
The first sub-plane is specially appropriated to those
who during earth-life have devoted themselves to
materialistic but intellectual pursuits, following them
not for the sake of benefiting their fellow-men, but
either from motives of selfish ambition or simply for
the sake of intellectual exercise. Such persons may
remain on this sub-plane for many years, happy in
working out their intellectual problems, but doing no
good to anyone, and making but little progress on
their way towards the heaven-world.
On this, the atomic sub-plane, men do not build
themselves imaginary conceptions, as the,y do at lower
levels. Thinkers and men of science often utilise for
purposes of their study almost all the powers of the
entire astral plane, for they are able to descend almost
to the physical along certain limited lines. Thus they
can swoop down upon the astral counterpart of a
physical book and extract from it the information
they require. They readily touch the mind of an
author, impress their ideas upon him, and receive his
in return. Sometimes they seriously delay their
departure for the heaven-world by the avidity with
which they prosecute lines of study and experiment on
the astral plane.
THE ASTRAL PLANE 149
Although we speak of astral matter as solid, it is 1 L 1 362.
never really, but only relatively solid. One of the
reasons why medieval alchemists symbolised astral
matter by water was because of its fluidity and pene-
trability. The particles in the densest astral matter
are further apart, relatively to their size, than even
gaseous particles. Hence it is easier for two of the
densest astral bodies to pass through each other than
it would be for the lightest gas to diffuse itself in
the air.
People on the astral plane can and do pass through 1 L 1 364-
one another constantly, and through fixed astral 3
65.
objects. There can never be anything like what we
mean by a collision, and under ordinary circumstances
two bodies which interpenetrate are not even appre-
ciably affected. If, however. the interpenetration
lasts for some time. as when two persons sit side by
side in a church or theatre, a considerable effect may
be produced.
If a man thought of a mountain as an obstacle, he
could not pass through it. To learn that it is not an
obstacle is precisely the object of one part of what is
called the II test of earth."
An explosion on the astral plane might be tem- 1 L 1 36.f.
porarily as disastrous as an explosion of gunpowder on ~S4~ 385-
the physical plane, but the astral fragments would 3860
quickly collect themselves again. Thus there cannot
be an accident on the astral plane in our sense of the
word. because the astral body. being fluidic, cannot be
destroyed or permanently injured, as the physical can.
A purely astral object could be moved by means of 1 L 1 395-
an astral hand, if one wished, but not the astral counter- 396.
part of a physical object. In order to move an astral
counterpart it would be necessary to materialise a
hand and move the physical object, then the astral
counterpart would, of course, accompany it. The astral
counterpart is there because the physical object is
there, just as the scent of a rose fills a room because
the rose is there. One could no more move a physical
object by moving its astral counterpart than one could
150
1 L 1 366.
1 L 11 103-
1 L 11104-
THE ASTRAL BODY
move the rose by moving its perfume.
On the astral plane one never touches the surface
of anything, so as to feel it hard or soft, rough or
smooth, hot or cold: but on coming into contact with
the interpenetrating substance one would be con-
scious of a different rate of vibration, which might,
of course, be pleasant or unpleasant, stimulating or
depressing.
Thus if one is standing on the ground, part of one'.
astral body interpenetrates the ground under one'.
feet: but the astral body would not beconsciousof the
fact by anything corresponding to a sense of hardness
or by any difference in the power of movement.
On the astral plane one has not the sense of jumping
over a precipice, but simply of floating over it.
Although the light of all planes comes from the SUD,
yet the effect which it produces on the astral plane
is entirely different from that on the physical. In
the astral world there is a diffused luminosity, not
obviously coming from any special direction. All astral
matter is in itself luminous, though an astral body is
not like a painted sphere, but rather a sphere of living
fire. It is never dark in the astral world. The passing
of a physical cloud in front of the sun makes no differ-
ence whatever to the astral plane, nor, of course, does
the shadow of the earth which we call night. As
astral bodies are transparent, there are no shadows.
Atmospheric and climatic conditions make practi-
cally no difference to work on the astral and mental
planes. But being in a big city makes a great differ-
ence, on account of the masses of thought-forms.
On the astral plane there are many currents which
tend to carry about persons who are lacking in will,
and even those who have will but do not know how to
use it.
There is no such thing as sleep in the astral world.
It is possible to forget upon the astral plane just as
it is on the physical. It is perhaps even easier to
forget on the astral plane than on the physical because
that world is so busy and so populous.
THE ASTRAL PLANE
Knowledge of a person in the astral world does not
necessarily mean knowledge of him in the physical
world.
The astral plane has often been called the realm of
illusion-not that it is itself any more illusory than the
physical world. but because of the extreme unrelia-
bility of the impressions brought back from it by the
untrained seer. This can be accounted for mainly by
two remarkable characteristics of the astral world:
(I) many of its inhabitants have a marvellous power
of changing their forms with protean rapidity, and
also of casting practically unlimited glamour over
those with whom they choose to sport: and (2) astral
sight is very different from and much more extended
than physical vision.
Thus with astral vision an object is seen. as it were,
from all sides at once, every particle in the interior
of a solid being as plainly open to the view as those
on the outside, and everything entirely free from the
distortion of perspective.
If one looked at a watch astrally, one would see the
face and all the wheels lying separately, but nothing
on the top of anything else. Looking at a closed book
one would see each page, not through all the other
pages before or behind it, but looking straight down
upon it as though it were the only page to be seen.
It is easy to see that under such conditions even the
most familiar objects may at first be totally unrecog-
nisable, and that an inexperienced visitor may well
find considerable difficulty in understanding what he
really does see. and still more in translating his vision
into the very inadequate language of ordinary speech.
Yet a moment's consideraticn will show that astral
vision approximates much more closely to true percep-
tion than does physical sight, which is subject to the
distortions of perspective.
In addition to these possiblesources of error, matters
are still further complicated by the fact that this astral
sight cognisesforms of matter which, while still purely
physical, are nevertheless invisible under ordinary
lSI
.A P ra,
ILl 10].
as D 46.
.A P 12: 18-
19·
C37: 40-4 1•
ISZ THE ASTRAL BODY
conditions. Such, for example, are the particles com-
posing the atmosphere, all the emanations which are
continuously being given out by everything that has
life, and also the four grades of etheric matter.
A P 23-240 Further, astral vision discloses to view other and
entirely different colours beyond the limits of the
ordinary visible spectrum, the ultra-red and ultra-
violet rays known to physical science being plainly
visible to astral sight.
Thus, to take a concrete example, a rock, seen with
astral sight, is no mere inert mass of stone. With
astral vision: (I) the whole of the physical matter
is seen, instead of a very small part of it: (2) the
vibrations of the physical particles are perceptible:
(3) the astral counterpart, composed of various grades
of astral matter, all in constant motion, is visible:
(4) the universal life (prana) is seen to be circulating
through it and radiating from it: (5) an aura will be
seen surrounding' it: (6) its appropriate elemental
essence is seen permeating it, ever active but ever
fluctuating. In the case of the vegetable, animal, and
human kingdoms, the complications are naturally
much more numerous.
A P '2-'30 A good instance of the sort of mistake that is likely
to occur on the astral plane is the frequent reversal of
any number which the seer has to record, so that he is
liable to render, say, 139 as Q31, and so on. In the
case of a student of occultism trained by a capable
Master, such a mistake would be impossible, except
through great hurry or'carelessness, since such a pupil
has to go through a long and varied course of instruction
in this art of seeing correctly. A trained seer in time
acquires a certainty and confidence in dealing with the
phenomena of the astral plane far exceeding anything
possible in physical life.
It is quite a mistaken view to speak with scorn of the
astral plane and to think it unworthy of attention.
It would, of course, certainly be disastrous for any
student to neglect his higher development, and to rest
satisfied with the attainment of astral consciousness. In
THE ASTRAL PLANE 153
some cases it is indeed possible to develop the higher
mental faculties first, to overleap the astral plane for
the time, as it were. But this is not the ordinary
method adopted by the Masters of Wisdom with their
pupils. For most, progress by leaps and bounds is
not practicable: it is necessary therefore to proceed
slowly, step by step.
In The VDice of the Silence three halls are spoken of. 1 L 1 102-
The first, that of ignorance, is the physical plane: 10.5.
the second, the Hall of Learning, is the astral plane,
and is so called because the opening of the astral
chakrams reveals so much more than is visible on the
physical plane that the man feels he is much nearer
the reality of the thing: nevertheless it is still but the
place of probationaryJearning. Still more real and
definite knowledge is acquired in the Hall of Wisdom,
which is the mental plane.
An important part of the scenery of the astral plane ..4 P 27-28•
consists of what are often, though mistakenly, called ;oi!;::'.:
the Records of the Astral Light. These records (which
are in truth a sort of materia1isation of the Divine
memory-a living photographic representation of all
that has ever happened) are really and permanently
impressed upon a very much higher level, and are only
reflected in a more or less spasmodic manner on the
astral plane; so that one whose power of vision does
not rise above this will be likely to obtain only
occasional and disconnected pictures of the past instead
of a coherent narrative. But nevertheless these reflected
pictures of all kinds of past events are constantly
being reproduced in the astral world, and form an
important part of the surroundings of the investigator
there,
Communication on the astral plane is limited by the ..4 P 4"
knowledge of the entity, just as it is in the physical C 13,5.
world, One who is able to use the mind-body can
communicate his tbougbts to the human entities there
more readily and rapidly than on earth, by means of
mental impressions r. but the ordinary inhabitants of
the astral plane are not usually able to exercise this
154 THE ASTRAL BODY
power; they appear to be restricted by limitations
similar to those that prevail on earth, though perhaps
less rigid. Consequently (as previously mentioned)
they are found associating, there as here, in groups
drawn together by common sympathies, beliefs, and
language.
CHAPTER XVII
MISCELLANEOUS ASTRAL PHENOMENA
THERE is reason to suppose that it may not be long A PII2-II•.
before some applications of one or two super-physical 5 G 0 zoo.
forces may come to be known to the world at large.
A common experience at spiritualistic seances is that
of the employment of practically resistless force in,
for example, the instantaneous movement of enormous
weights, and so on. There are several ways in which
such results may be brought about. Hints may be
given as to four of these.
(1) There are great etheric currents on the surface
of the earth flowing from pole to pole in volumes
which make this power as irresistible as that of
the rising tide, and there are methods by which this
stupendous force may be safely utilised, though
unskilful attempts to control it would be fraught
with the greatest danger.
(2) There is an etheric pressure, somewhat corre-
sponding to, though immensely greater than, the atmo-
spheric pressure. Practical occultism teaches how a
given body of ether can be isolated from the rest, so
that the tremendous force of etheric pressure can be
brought into play.
(3) There is a vast store of potential energy which
has become dormant in matter during the involution
of the subtle into the gross, and by changing the
condition of the matter some of this may be liberated
and utilised, somewhat as latent energy in the form
of heat may be liberated by a change in the condition
of visible matter.
(4) Many results may be produced by what is
known as sympathetic vibration. By sounding the
keynote of the class of matter it is desired to affect,
THE ASTRAL BODY
an immense number of sympathetic vibrations can be
called forth. When this is done on the physical plane,
e.g., by sounding a note on a harp and inducing other
harps tuned in unison to respond sympathetically,
no additional energy is developed. But on the astral
plane the matter is far less inert, so that when called
into action by sympathetic vibrations, it adds its own
living force to the original impulse, which may thus
be multiplied many-fold. By further rhythmic repeti-
tion of the original impulse, the vibrations may be so
intensified that the result is out of all apparent pro-
portion to the cause. There seems scarcely any limit
to the conceivable achievements of this force in the
hands of a great Adept who fully comprehends its
possibilities: for the very building of the Universe
itself was but the result of the vibrations set up by
the Spoken Word.
A P u,. The class of mantras or spells which produce their
result not by controlling some elemental, but merely
by the repetition of certain sounds, also depend for
their efficacy upon this action of sympathetic vibra-
tion.
A P us. The phenomenon of disintegraJion also may be
~6~ D 359- brought about by the action of extremely rapid
vibrations, which overcome the cohesionof the molecules
of the object operated upon. A still higher vibration
of a somewhat different type will separate these mole-
cules into their constituent atoms. A body thus
reduced to the etheric condition can be moved from
one place to another with very great rapidity; and
the moment the force which has been exerted is with-
drawn it will be forced by the etheric pressure to
resume its original condition.
It is necessary to explain how the shape of an object
is preserved, when it is disintegrated and then re-
materialised. If a metal key, for example, were raised
to the vaporous condition by heat, when the heat is
withdrawn the metal will solidify, but instead of being
a key it will be merely a lump of metal. The reason
of this is that the elemental essence which informs the
MISCELLANEOUS ASTRAL PHENOMENA 157
key would be dissipated by the alteration in its con-
dition : not that the elemental essence can be affected
by heat, but that when its temporary body is destroyed
as a solid, the elemental essence pours back into the
great reservoir of such essence, much as the higher
principles of man, though entirely unaffected by heat
or cold, are yet forced out of a physical body when the
latter is destroyed by fire.
Consequently, when the metal of the key cooled into
the solid condition again, the .. earth." elemental
essence which poured back into it would not be the
same as that which it contained before, and there
would therefore be no reason why the key shape
should be retained.
But a man who disintegrated a key in order to move
it from one place to another, would be careful to hold
the elemental essence in exactly the same shape until
the transfer was completed, and then when his will-
force was removed it would act as a mould into which
the solidifying particles would flow, or rather round
which they would be re-aggregated. Thus, unless the
operator's power of concentration failed, the shape
would be accurately preserved.
Apporls, or the bringing of objects almost instan- A P u6-1I7.
taneously from great distances to spiritualistic seances ~~ 1) 359-
are sometimes produced in this way: for it is obvious
that when disintegrated they could be passed with
perfect ease through any solid substance, such as the
wallof a houseor the side ofa locked box. The passage
of matter through matter is thus, when understood, as
simple as the passage of water through a sieve or of a
gas through a liquid.
Materialisation or the change of an object from the
etheric to the solid state, can beproduced by a reversal
of the above process. In this case also a continued
effort of will is necessary to prevent the materialised
matter from relapsing into the etheric condition. The
various kinds of materialisation will be described in
Chapter XXVIII on Invisible Helpers.
Electrical disturbances of any sort present diffi- 0 S D 370.
THE ASTRAL BODY
culties in either materialisation or disintegration,
presumably for the same reason that bright light
renders them almost impossible-the destructive effect
of strong vibration.
A P 119. Reduplication is produced by forming a perfect
~7:' D 37
1
- mental image of the object to be copied, and then
gathering about that mould the necessary astral and
physical matter. The phenomenon requires consider-
able power of concentration to perform, because every
particle, interior as well as exterior, of the object to be
duplicated must be held accurately in view simul-
taneously. A person who is unable to extract the
matter required directly from the surrounding ether
may sometimes borrow it from the material of the
original article, which would then be correspondingly
reduced in weight.
A P II9-IZO. Precipitation of letters, etc., may be produced in
o S D 357· several ways. An Adept might place a sheet of paper
before him, form a mental image of the writing he
wished to appear upon it, and draw from the ether the
matter wherewith to objectivise the image. Or he
could with equal ease produce the same result upon a
sheet of paper lying before his correspondent, whatever
might be the distance between them.
A third method, quicker and therefore more often
adopted, is to impress the whole substance of the letter
on the mind of some pupil and leave him to do the
mechanical work of precipitation. The pupil would
then imagine he saw the letter written on the paper in
his Master's hand, and objectivise the writing as just
described. If he found it difficult to draw the material
from the ether and precipitate the writing on the paper
simultaneously, he might have ink or coloured powder
at hand on which he could draw more readily.
It is just as easy to imitate one man's hand-writing
as another's, and it would be impossible to detect by
any ordinary means a forgery committed in this manner.
A pupil of a Master has an infallible test which he can
apply, but for others the proof of origin must lie solely
in the contents of the letter and the spirit breathing
MISCELLANEOUS ASTRAL PHENOMENA 159
through it, as the hand-writing, however cleverly
imitated, is valueless as evidence.
A pupil new to the work would probably be able to
imagine a few words at a time only, but one with more
experience could visualise a whole page or even an
entire letter at once. In this manner quite long
letters are sometimes produced in a few seconds at
spiritualistic seances.
Pictures are precipitated in the same manner, except .f P rzo ·122.
that here it is necessary to visualise the entire scene at 0 S D 3~7·
once: and if many colours are needed they have to be
manufactured, kept separate, and applied correctly.
Evidently there is here scope for artistic faculty, and
those with experience as artists will be more successful
than those without such experience.
Slate-writing is sometimes produced by precipitation, .A. P 121.
though more frequently tiny points of spirit hands are
materialised just sufficiently to grasp the fragment of
pencil.
Levitation, that is the floating of a human body in .A. P 121-122.
the air, is often performed at seances by " spirit hands" 0 S D 344-
which support the body of the medium. It may also ~4.5W 86.
be achieved by the aid of the elementals of air and
water. In the East, however, always, and here
occasionally, another method is employed. There is
known to occult science a method of neutralising or
even reversing the force of gravity, which is in fact of
a magnetic nature, by means of which levitation may
be easily produced. Doubtless this method was used
in raising some of the air-ships of ancient India and
Atlantis, and it is not improbable that a similar method
was employed in constructing the Pyramids and
Stonehenge.
Levitation also happens to some ascetics in India, J L II 182-
and some of the greatest of Christian Saints have in 1
83.
deep meditation been thus raised from the ground-
fOI example, S. Teresa and S. Joseph of Cupertino.
Since light consists of ether vibrations, it is obvious .f P 112-
that anyone who understands how to set up these
vibrations can produce .. spirit lights," either the
160 THE ASTRAL BODY
mildly phosphorescent or the dazzling electrical variety,
or those dancing globules of light into which a certain
class o( tire elementals so readily transform themselves.
A P 122. The feat of handling fire without injury may be
~7:' D 37
1
- performed by covering the hand with the thinnest layer
of etheric substance, so manipulated as to be imper-
vious to heat. There are also other ways in which it
may be done.
o S D 373- The production of fire is also within the resources
374· of the astral plane, as well as to counteract its effect.
There seem to be at least three ways in which this could
be done: (1) to set up and maintain the requisite rate
of vibration, when combustion must ensue: (2) to
introduce fourth-dimensionally a tiny fragment of
glowing matter and then blow upon it until it bursts
into fiame: (3) to introduce chemical constituents
which would produce combustion.
..f P 12:1-1:13. The wansmulation of metals can be achieved by
reducing a piece of metal to the atomic condition and
rearranging the atoms in another form.
..f P 1:13. Repercussion, which will be dealt with in the Chapter
on I,.visible Helpers, is also due to the principle of
sympathetic vibration, described above.
CHAPTER XVIII
THE FOURTH DIMENSION
THERE are many characteristics of the astral world
which agree with remarkable exactitude with a world
of four dimensions, as conceived by geometryand mathe-
matics. So close, in fact, is this agreement, that cases 0 S D 109-
are known where a purely intellectual study. of the l~: 467-
geometry of the fourth dimension has opened up astral 4 •
sight in the student.
The classic books on the subject are those of C. H.
Hinton: Scientific Romances, Vols. I and II: A New
Era of Thought: The Fourth Dimension. These are
strongly recommended by Bishop C. W. Leadbeater,
who states that the study of the fourth dimension is the H S I 28-29.
best method he knows to obtain a conception of the ~I!> 248-
conditions which prevail on the astral plane, and that log. 10
C. H. Hinton's exposition of the fourth dimension is C 39-
the only one which gives any kind of explanation down
here of the constantly observed facts of astral vision.
Other, and later books are several by Claude Bragdon:
The Beautiful Necessity: A Primer of Higher Space I
Fourth Dimensional Vistas " etc., Tertium Organum
(a most illuminating work) by P. D. Ouspensky, and
no doubt many others.
For those who have made no study of this subject
we may give here the very barest outline of some of
the main features underlying the fourth dimension.
A posnt, which has .. position but no magnitude,"
has no dimensions: a line, created by the movement
of a point, has one dimension, length: a surface, created
by the movement of a line, at right angles to itself, has
two dimensions, length and breadth: a solid, created by
the movement of a surface at right angles to itself, has
three dimensions, length, breadth and thickness.
162 THE ASTRAL BODY
A tesseract is a hypothetical object, created by the
movement of a solid, in a new direction at right angles
to itself, having four dimensions,length, breadth, thick-
ness and another, at right angles to these three, but
incapable of being represented in our world of three
dimensions.
Many of the properties of a tesseract can bededuced,
according to the following table :-
() S D 114. Points Lines 5urlaus Solids
A Point haa ... 1
ALinehas... 2 1
A Four-sided Surface hal •.. 4 4 I
A Cube haa ... 8 12 6 I
A Tesseract haa 16 32 24 8
C 39. The tesseract, as described by C. H. Hinton, is
stated by Bishop C. W. Leadbeater to be a reality,
being quite a familiar figure on the astral plane. In
SO E 59. Some Occult Experiences by J. Van Manen, an attempt
is made to represent a 4-dimensional globe graphically.
There is a close and suggestive parallel between
phenomena which could be produced by means of a
three-dimensional object in a hypothetical world of two
dimensions inhabited by a being conscious only of two
dimensions, and many astral phenomena as they appear
to us living in the physical or three-dimensional world.
Thus:
o S D 112- (1) Objects, by being lifted through ._Ie third
114 : 122. dimension, could be made to appear in or disappear
from the two-dimensional world at will.
(2) An object completely surrounded by a line could
be lifted out of the enclosed space through the third
dimension.
(3) By bending a two-dimensional world, repre-
sented by a sheet of paper, two distant points could be
brought together, or even made to coincide, thus
destroying the two-dimensional conception of distance.
(4) A right-handed object could be turned over
through the third dimension and made to re-appear as
a left-handed object.
(5) By looking down, from the third dimension,
on to a two-dimensional object, every point of the
THE FOURTH DIMENSION
latter could be seen at once, and free from the distortion
of perspective.
To a being limited to a conception of two dimensions,
the above would appear" miraculous," and completely
incomprehensible.
It is curious that precisely similar tricks can be and 0 S D Jl4.
are constantly being played upon us, as is well known 11 S I 16
4.
to spiritualists: (I) entities and objects appear and
disappear: (2) "apports" of articles from great
distances are made; (3) articles are removed from
closed boxes: (4) space appears to be practically
annihilated; (5) an object can be reversed, i.e., a
right hand turned into a left hand: (6) all parts
of an object, e.g., of a cube, are seen simultaneously .If P 19-111
and free from all distortion of perspective: similarly
the whole of the matter of a closed book can be seen at
once.
The explanation of the welling-up of force, e.g., in C 17-18.
Chakrams, apparently from nowhere, is of course that
it comes from the fourth dimension.
A liquid, poured on to a surface, tends to spread 0 5 D 122-
itself out in two dimensions, becoming very thin in the 12
3.
third dimension. Similarly a gas tends to spread itself
in three dimensions, and it may be that in so doing it
becomes smaller in the fourth dimension: i.e., the
density of a gas may be a measure of its relative thick-
ness in the fourth dimension.
It is clear that there is no need to stop at four
dimensions: for all we know, there may be infinite
dimensions of space. At any rate, it seems certain C 108.
that the astral world is four-dimensional, the mental M 27·
five-dimensional, and the buddhic six-dimensional.
It should be clear that if there are, say, seven dimen- 1 L 11 JIB-
sions at all, there are seven dimensions always and ;;05 I 27.
everywhere: i.e.• there is no such thing as a third or 0 S D 107.
fourth-dimensional being. The apparent difference is
due to the limited power of perception of the entity
concerned, not to any change in the objects perceived.
This idea is very well worked out in Tertium Organum
by Ouspensky.
THE ASTRAL BODY
1 L 11 121- Nevertheless a man may develop astral consciousness
132. and still be unable to perceive or appreciate the fourth
dimension. In fact it is certain that the average man
does not perceive the fourth dimension at all when he
enters the astral plane. He realises it only as a certain
blurring, and most men go through their astral lives
without discovering the reality of the fourth dimension
in the matter surrounding them.
Entities, such as nature-spirits, which belong to the
astral plane, have by nature the faculty of seeing the
four-dimensional aspect of all objects, but even they
do not see them perfectly, since they perceive only the
astral matter in them and not the physical, just as we
perceive the physical and not the astral.
1 L 11 122- The passage of an object through another does not
12
3. raise the question of the fourth dimension, but may
be brought about by disintegration-a purely three-
dimensional method.
c 138-139. Time is not in reality the fourth dimension at all:
yet to regard the problem from the point of view of
time is some slight. help towards understanding it.
The passage of a cone through a sheet of paper would
appear to an entity living on the sheet of paper as a
circle altering in size: the entity would of course be
incapable of perceiving all the stages of the circle as
existing together as parts of one cone. Similarly for
us the growth of a solid object viewed from the buddhic
plane corresponds to the view of the cone as a whole,
and thus throws some light on our own delusionof past,
present and future, and on the faculty of prevision.
The transcendental view of time is very well treated
in C. H. Hinton's story Stella, which is included in
Scientific Romances, Vol. II. There are also two
interesting references to this conception in The Stefa
Doctrine, Vol. I, page 69. and Vol. II, page 466.
H S II 3.5l- It is an interesting and significant observation that
3.53· geometry as we have it now is but a fragment, an
exoteric preparation for the esoteric reality. Having
lost the true sense of space, the first step towards that
knowledge is the cognition of the fourth dimension.
THE FOURTH DIMENSION
We may conceive the Monad at the beginning of its M 27-z8.
evolution to be able to move and to see in infinite H S
12
7-28.
dimensions, one of these being cut off at each down-
ward step, until for the physical brain-consciousness
only three are left. Thus by involution into matter we
are cut off from the knowledge of all but a minute part
of the worlds which surround us, and even what is left
is but imperfectly seen.
With four-dimensional sight it may be observed that 1 L 1 :Zl9-
the planets which are isolated in our three-dimensions ZlO.
are four-dimensionally joined, these globes being in
fact the points of petals which are part of one great
Bower: hence the Hindu conception of the solar system
as a lotus.
There is also. vi4 a higher dimension, a direct con- 1 L 1 357-
nection between the heart of the sun and the centre 359·
of the earth, so that elements appear in the earth
without passing through what we call the surface.
A study of the fourth dimension seems to lead the 0 S D 123-
way direct to mysticism. Thus C. H. Hinton con- 12+.
stantly uses the phrase" casting out the self," pointing
out that in order to appreciate a solid four-dimension-
ally it is necessary to regard it not from anyone point
of view but from all points of view simultaneously:
i.e., the" self .. or particular, isolated point of view must
be transcended and replaced by the general and un-
selfish view.
One is also reminded of the famous saying of St.
Paul (Ephesians iii, 17-18): .. That ye, being rooted
and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend
with all saints what is the breadth. and length. and
depth and height."
CHAPTER XIX
ASTRAL ENTITIES: HUMAN
If P 29 : 63· To enumerate and describe every kind of astral entity
would be a task as formidable as that of enumerating
and describing every kind of physical entity. All we
can attempt here is to tabulate the chief classes and
give a very brief description of each.
ASTRAL ENTITIES
Human.
Non·Human. Artificial.
Physically Physically
Alive. Dead.
I. Ordinary I. Ordinary I. Elemental I. Elcmentals
Person Person Essence formed un-
2. Psychic 2. Shade 2. Astral Bod-
consciously I
2. Elementals
ies of Ani- formed con-
mals sciously
3. Adept or his 3. Shell 3. Nature- 3. Human AI·
pupil Spirits tili.cials
4. Black Magi- 4. Vitalised 4. Devas
cian or his Shell
pupil
S. Suicide and
Victim of
Sudden
Death
6. Vampire
and Were-
wolf
7. Black Mag-
ician or his
pupil
8.. Pu~l .await-
mg eincar-
nation
9. Nirmlna-
kaya
ASTRAL ENTITIES: HUMAN
rn order to make the classification quite complete, A P 64-6,5·
it is necessary to state that, in addition to the above,
very high Adepts from other planets of the solar
system, and even more august Visitors from a still
greater distance, occasionally appear, but although it is
possible, it is almost inconceivable, that such Beings
would ever manifest themselves on a plane as low as
the astral. If they wished to do so they would create
a temporary body of astral matter of this planet.
Secondly, there are also two other great evolutions
evolving on this planet, though it appears not to be
intended that they or man should ordinarily be con-
scious of each other. If we did come into contact with
them it would probably be physically, their connection
with our astral plane being very slight. The only
possibility of their appearance depends upon an
extremely improbable accident in ceremonial magic,
which only a few of the most advanced sorcerers know
how to perform: nevertheless this has actually
happened at least once.
THE HUMAN CLASS. (a) Physically Alive.
I. The Ordinary Person.-This class consists of A P "-3-4.
persons, whose physical bodies are asleep, and who
1I0at about on the astral plane, in various degrees of
consciousness, as already fully described in Chapter IX
on Sleep Life.
2. ThePsychic.-A psychically-developed person will A P 31.
usually be perfectly conscious when out of the physical
body, but, for want of proper training, he is liable to be
deceived as to what he sees. Often he may be able to
range through all the astral sub-planes, but sometimes
he is especially attracted to some one sub-plane, and
rarely travels beyond its influences. His recollection
of what he has seen may of course vary from perfect
clearness to utter distortion or black oblivion. As he
is assumed not to be under the guidance of a Master, he
will appear always in his astral body, since he does not
know how to function in his mental vehicle.
3. The Adept and His pupils.-Thii class usually A P 2930.
168 THE ASTRAL BODY
employs, not the astral body, but the mind body, which
is composed of matter of the four lower levels of the
mental plane. The advantage of this vehicle is that
it permits of instant passage from the mental to the
astral and back, and alsoallows of the use at all times
of the greater power and keener sense of its own plane.
The mind body not being visible to astral sight, the
pupil who works in it learns to gather round himselfa
temporary veil of astral matter, when he wishes to
become perceptible to astral entities. Such a vehicle,
though an exact reproduction of the man in appearance,
contains none of the matter of his own astral body, but
corresponds to it in the same way as a materialisation
corresponds to a physical body.
At an earlier stage of his development, the pupil may
be found functioning in his astral body like anyone else:
but, whichever vehicle he is employing, a pupil under
a competent teacher is always fully conscious and can
function easily upon all the sub-planes.
4. The Black Magician and his pupils.-This class
corresponds somewhat to that of the Adept and His
pupils, except that the development has been for evil
instead of good, the powers acquired being used for
selfish instead of for altruistic purposes. Among its
lower ranks are those who practise the rites of the
Obeah and Voodoo schools, and the medicine-men of
various tribes. Higher in intellect, and therefore more
blameworthy, are the Tibetan black magicians.
THE HUMAN CLAss. (b) Physically Dead.
I. The Ordinary Person after Death.-This class,
obviously a very large one, consists of all grades of
persons, in varying conditions of consciousness, as
already fully described in Chapters XII to XV on
After-Death Life.
2. The Shade.-In Chapter XXIII we shall see that
when the astral life of a person is over, he dies on the
astral plane and leaves behind him his disintegrating
astral body, precisely as when he dies physically he
leaves behind him a decaying physical corpse,
ASTRAL ENTITIES: HUMAN I6g
In most cases the higher ego is unable to withdraw
from his lower principles the whole of his manasic
(mental) principle: consequently, a portion of his
lower mental matter remains entangled with the astral
corpse. The portion of mental matter thus remaining
behind consists of the grosser kinds of each sub-plane,
which the astral body has succeeded in wrenching
from the mental body.
This astral corpse, known as a Shade, is an entity
which is not in any sense the real individual at all:
nevertheless it bears his exact personal appearance,
possesses his memory, and all his little idiosyncrasies.
It may therefore very readily be mistaken for him, as
indeed it frequently is at s4ances. It is not conscious
of any act of impersonation, for as far as its intellect
goes it must necessarily suppose itself to be the indi-
vidual: it is in reality merely a soulless bundle of all
his lowest qualities.
The length of life of a shade varies according to the
amount of the lower mental matter which animates it :
but as this is steadily fading out. its intellect is a dimi-
nishing quantity, though it may possess a great deal of a
certain sort of animal cunning, and even quite towards
the end of its career it is still able to communicate by
borrowing temporary intelligence from the medium.
From its very nature it is exceedingly liable to be
swayed by all kinds of evil influences, and, being
separated from its higher ego, it has nothing in its
constitution capable of responding to good ones. It
therefore lends itself readily to various minor purposes
of some of the baser sort of black magicians. The
mental matter it possesses gradually disintegrates and
returns to the general matter of its own plane.
3. The SheU.-A shell is a man's astral corpse in the A P .52-.53-
later stages of its disintegration, every particle of mind ~ tv~~~.
having left it. It is consequently without any sort 137·
of consciousness or intelligence, and drifts passively T B 86.
about upon the astral currents. Even yet it may be
galvanised for a few moments into a ghastly burlesque
of life if it happens to come within reach of a medium's
170 THE ASTRAL BODY
aura. Under such circumstances it will still exactly
resemble its departed personality in appearance and
may even reproduce to some extent his familiar expres-
sions or handwriting.
It has also the quality of being still blindly responsive
to such vibrations, usually of the lowest order, as were
frequently set up in it during its laststage of existence
as a shade.
.4 p .54-.55· 4. The Vitalised SheU.-This entity is not, strictly
speaking, human: nevertheless, it is classified here
because its outer vesture, the passive, senseless shell,
was once an appanage of humanity. Such life, intelli-
gence, desire, and will as it may possess are those
of the artificial elemental (see page 45) animating it,
this elemental being itself a creation of man's evil
thought.
A vitalised shell is always malevolent: it is a true
tempting demon, whose evil influence is limited only
by the extent of its power. Like the shade, it is
frequently used in Voodoo and Obeah forms of magic.
It is referred to by some writers as an If elementary."
~ p .5.5-.57· 5. The Suicide and Viaim of SuddenDeath.-These
have already been described in Chapter XV on A.fte1-
Death Life. It may be noted that this class, as well as
Shades and Vitalised Shells, are what may be called
minor vampires, because when they have an oppor-
tunity they prolong their existence by draining away
the vitality from human beings whom they are able to
influence.
~ p 57-60. 6. The Vampi,e and Werewolf.-These two classes
are to-day extremely rare; examples are occasionally
found.
It is just possible for a man to live such a degraded,
selfish and brutal life that the whole of the lower mind
becomes immeshed in his desires and finally separates
from the higher ego. This is possible only where every
gleam of unselfishness or spirituality has been stified,
and where there is no redeeming feature whatever.
Such a lost entity very soon after death finds himself
unable to stay in the astral world, and is irresistibly
ASTRAL ENTITIES: HUMAN
drawn in full consciousness into" his own place," the
mysterious eighth sphere, there slowly to disintegrate
after experiences best left undescribed. If, however,
be perishes by suicide or sudden death, he may under
certain circumstances. especially if he knows something
of black magic, bold himself back from that fate by
the ghastly existence of a vampire.
Since the eighth sphere cannot claim him until after
the death of the body, he preserves it in a kind of
cataleptic trance by transfusing into it blood drawn
from other human beings by his semi-materialised
astral body, thus postponing his final destiny by the
commission of wholesale murder. The most effective
remedy in such a case, as popular "superstition"
rightly supposes, is to cremate the body, thus depriving
the entity of his point d'appui.
When the grave is opened, the body usually appears
quite fresh and healthy, and the coffin is not unusually
filled with blood. Cremation obviously makes this
sort of vampirism impossible.
The Werewolf can first manifest only during a man's A P 60- 61.
physical life, and it invariably implies some knowledge
of magical arts-sufficient at any rate to enable him to
project the astral body.
When a perfectly cruel and brutal man does this,
under certain circumstances the astral body may be
seized upon by other astral entities and materialised,
not into the human form, but into that of some wild
animal, usually the wolf. In that condition it will
range the surrounding country, killing other animals,
and even human beings, thus satisfying Dot only its
own craviDg for blood, butalso that of the flends who
drive it on.
In this case, as so often with ordinary materialisa-
tions, a wound inflicted upon the astral form will be
reproduced upon the human physical body by the
curious phenomenon of repercussion (see page 24I).
But after the death of the physical body, the astral
body, which will probably continue to appear in the
same form, will be less vulnerable.
~ P 61-6.1.
THE ASTRAL BODY
It will then, however, be also less dangerous, as unless
it can find a suitable medium, it will be unable to
materialise fully. In such manifestations, there is
probably a great deal of the matter of the etheric
double, and perhaps even some of liquid and gaseous
constituents of the physical body, as in the case of some
materialisations. In both cases this fluidic body seems
able to pass to much greater distances from the physical
than is otherwise possible, so far as is known, for a
vehicle containing etheric matter.
The manifestations of both vampires and were-
wolves are usually restricted to the immediate neigh-
bourhood of their physical bodies.
7. The Black Magician and his Pup-it.-This class
corresponds, mutatis mutandis, to the pupil awaiting
reincarnation, but in this case the man is defying the
natural process of evolution by maintaining himself in
astral life by magical arts-sometimes of the most
horrible nature.
It is considered undesirable to enumerate or describe
the various sub-divisions of this class, as an occult
student wishes only to avoid them. All these entities,
who prolong their life thus on the astral plane beyond
its natural limit, do so at the expense of others and by
the absorption of their life in some form or another.
8. T1Je Pupil awaiting Reincarnation.-This is also
at present a rare class. A pupil who has decided not
to "take his devachan," •.e., not to pass into the
heaven-world, but to continue to work on the physical
plane, is sometimes, by permission only of a very high
authority, allowed to do so, a suitable reincarnation
being arranged for him by his Master. Even when
permission is granted, it is said that the pupil must
confine himself strictly to the astral plane while the
matter is being arranged, because if he touched the
mental plane even for a moment he might be swept
as by an irresistible current into the line of normal
evolution again and so pass into the heaven-world.
Occasionally, though rarely, the pupil may be
placed directly in an adult body whose previous tenant
ASTRAL ENTITIES: HUMAN 173
has no further use for it: but it is seldom that a suitable
body is available.
Meanwhile the pupil is of course fully conscious on
the astral plane and able to go on with the work given
to him by his Master, even more effectively than when
hampered by a physical body.
9. The Nirmanakaya.-It is very rarely indeed that ..4 P 36•
a being so exalted as a NirmAnakaya manifests himself ~/ I 480-
on the astral plane. A Nirm!nakaya is one who, having 1L 1 , 6.
wonthe right to untold ages of rest in bliss unspeakable, M P 237
yet has chosen to remain within touch of earth, sus-
pended as it were between this world and Nirvana, in
order to generate streams of spiritual force which may
be employed for the helping of evolution. If He
wished to appear on the astral plane he would probably
create for himself a temporary astral body from the
atomic matter of the plane. This is possible because
a NirmAnakaya retains His causal body, and also the
permanent atoms which He has carried all through His
evolution, so that at any moment He can materialise
round them mental, astral or physical bodies, if He
so desires.
CHAPTER XX
ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HUMAN
A P"5. I. Elemental Essence.-The word" elemental" has
been used by various writers to mean many different
kinds of entities. It is here employed to denote,
during certain stages of its existence, monadic essence,
which in its turn may be defined as the outpouring of
spirit or divine force into matter.
A P 70-71. It is most important that the student should realise
that the evolution of this elemental essence is taking
place on the downward curve of the are, as it is often
called: i.e., it is progressing towards the complete
entanglement in matter which we see in the mineral
kingdom, instead of away from it: consequently for
it progress means descent into matter instead of ascent
towards higher planes.
A P 65. Before the .. outpouring" arrives at the stage of
individualisation at which it ensoulsman, it has already
passed through and ensouled six earlier phases of
evolution, viz., the first elemental kingdom (on the
higher mental plane), the second elemental kingdom
(on the lower mental plane), the third elemental
kingdom (on the astral plane), the mineral, vegetable
and animal kingdoms. It has sometimes been called
the animal, vegetable or mineral monad, though this
is distinctly misleading, as long before it arrives at any
of these kingdoms it has become not one but many
monads.
A P 66-67. We are here dealing, of course, only with the astral
elemental essence. This essence consists of the divine
outpouring which has already veiled itself in matter
down to the atomic level of the mental plane, and
then plunged down directly into the astral plane,
aggregating round itself a body of atomic astral matter
ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HUMAN 175
Such a combination is the elemental essence of the
astral plane, belonging to the third elemental kingdom,
the one immediately preceding the mineral.
In the course of its 2,401 differentiations on the A P 67.
astral plane, it draws to itself many and various com-
binations of the matter of the various sub-planes.
Nevertheless these are only temporary, and it still
remains essentially one kingdom.
Strictly speaking, there is no such thing as an elemen-
tal in connection with the group we are considering.
What we find is a vast store of elemental essence,
wonderfully sensitive to the most fleeting human
thought, responding with inconceivable delicacy, in an
infinitesimal fraction of a second, to a vibration set up
in it by an entirely unconscious exercise of human will
or desire.
But the moment that by the influence of such thought
or will it is moulded into a living force, it becomes an
elemental, and belongs to the .. artificial" class, to
which we shall come in our next chapter. Even then
its separate existence is usually evanescent, for as soon
as its impulse has worked itself out, it sinks back into
the undifferentiated mass of elemental essence from
which it came.
A visitor to the astral world will inevitably be C H.
impressed by the protean forms of the ceaseless tide of
elemental essence, ever swirling around him, menacing
often, yet always retiring before a determined effort
of the will; and he will marvel at the enormous army
of entities temporarily called out of this ocean into
separate existence by the thoughts and feelings of man,
whether good or evil.
Broadly, the elemental essence may be classified A P 6S-<lg.
according to the kind of matter it inhabits: i.e., solid,
liquid, gaseous, etc. These are the .. elementals" of
the medieval alchemists. They held, correctly, that
an "elemental," i.e., a portion of the appropriate
living elemental essence, inhered in each" element,"
or constituent part, of every physical substance.
Each of these seven main classes of elemental
176 THE ASTRAL BODY
essence may also be sub-divided into seven sub-divi-
sions, making 49 sub-divisions.
.If p ~70. In addition to, and quite separate from, these
horizontal divisions, there are also seven perfectly
distinct types of elemental essence, the difference
between them having nothing to do with degree of
materiality, but rather with character and affinities.
The student will be familiar with this classification as
the ~' perpendicular" one, having to do with the seven
" rays."
There are also seven sub-divisions in each ray-type,
making 49 perpendicular sub-divisions: The total
number of kinds of elemental essence is thus 49 x49 or
2,40 1 •
The perpendicular division is clearly far more per-
manent and fundamental than the horizontal division:
for the elemental essence in the slow course of evolution
passes through the various horizontal classes in
succession, but remains in its own perpendicular
sub-division all the way through.
A p 71, When any portion of the elemental essence remains
for a few moments entirely unaffected by any outside
inBuence-a condition hardly ever realised-it has no
definite form of its own: but on the slightest dis-
turbance it Bashes into a bewildering confusion of
restless, ever-changing shapes, which form, rush about,
and disappear with the rapidity of the bubbles on the
surface of boiling water.
These evanescent shapes, though generally those of
living creatures of some sort, human or otherwise, no
more express the existence of separate entities in the
essence than do the equally changeful and multiform
waves raised in a few moments on a previously smooth
lake by a sudden squall. They seem to be mere
reflections from the vast storehouse of the astral light,
yet they have usually a certain appropriateness to the
character of the thought-stream which calls them into
existence, though nearly always with some grotesque
distortion, some terrifying or unpleasant aspect about
them.
ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HUMAN
When the elemental essence is thrown into shapes d P 7:1·
appropriate to the stream of half-conscious, involuntary
thoughts which the majority of men allow to Bowidly
through their brains. the intelligence which selects the
appropriate shape is clearly not derived from the mind
of the thinker: neither can it derive from the elemental
essence itself. for this belongs to a kingdom further
from individualisation even than the-mineral. entirely
devoid of awakened mental power.
Nevertheless. the essence possesses a marvellous
adaptability which often seems to come very near to
intelligence: it is no doubt this property that caused
elementals to be spoken of in early books as .. the semi-
intelligent creatures of the astral light."
The elemental kingdoms proper do not admit of such
conceptions as good or evil. Nevertheless there is a
sort of bias or tendency permeating nearly all their
sub-divisions which renders them hostile rather than
friendly towards man. Hence the usual experience of
the neophyte on the astral plane, where vast hosts of
protean spectres advance threateningly upon him, but
always retire or dissipate harmlessly when boldly faced.
As stated by medieval writers. this bias or tendency is d P 73-
due entirely to man's own fault, and is caused by his ~ ~ p166
indifference to, and want of sympathy with, other
living beings. In the .. golden age " of the past it was
not so. any more than it will be so in the future when,
owingto the changed attitude of man. both the elemental
essence and also the animal kingdom will once again
become docile and helpful to man instead of the reverse.
It is thus clear that the elemental kingdom as a
whole is very much what the collective thought of
humanity makes it.
There are many uses to which the forces inherent d P 74.
in the manifold varieties of the elemental essence can
be put by one trained in their management. The
vast majority of magical ceremonies depend almost
entirely upon its manipulation, either directly by the
will of the magician, or by some more definite astral
entity evoked by him for the purpose.
THE ASTRAL BODY
By its means nearly all the physical phenomena of
the sea1U:e room are produced, and it is also the agent
in most cases of stone-throwing or bell-ringing in
A p 7':lob- haunted houses, these latter being the results of
10
7. blundering efforts to attract attention made by some
earth-bound human entity, or by the mere mischievous
pranks of some of the minor nature-spirits belonging
to our third class (see p. 181). But the" elemental ..
must never be thought of as a prime mover: it is
simply a latent force, which needs an external power
to set it in motion.
A P ;6. 2. The Astral Bodies of Animals.-This is an
:~. v 1 4
2
- extremely large class, yet it does not occupy a particu-
larly important position on the astral plane, since its
members usually stay there but a very short time.
The vast majority of animals have not as yet per-
manently individualised, and when one of them dies,
the monadic essence which has been manifesting
through it flowsback again into the group-soul whence
it came, bearing with it such advancement or experience
as has been attained during earth life. It is not,
however, able to do this immediately; the astral body
of the animal rearranges itself just as in man's case,and
the animal has a real existence on the astral plane, the
1.ength of which, though never great. varies according
o the intelligence which it has developed. In most
cases it does not seem to be more than dreamily
conscious, but appears perfectly happy.
The comparatively few domestic animals who have
already attained individuality, and will therefore be
re-born no more as animals in this world, have a much
longer and more vivid life on the astral plane than
their less advanced fellows.
tt: 11 44. Such an individualised animal usually remains near
his earthly home and in close touch with his especial
friend and protector. This period will be followed by
a still happier period of what has been called dozing
consciousness, which will last until in some future
world the human form is assumed. During all that
time he is in a condition analogous to that of a human
ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HUMAN 179
being in the heaven-world, though at a somewhat
lower level.
One interesting sub-division of this class consists of A P 76.
the astral bodies of those anthropoid apes mentioned
in The Secret Doct,ine (Vol. I, p. 184) who are
already individualised, and will be ready to take
human incarnation in the next round, or perhaps some
of them even sooner.
In .. civilised" countries these animal astral bodies .of W 90""91
add much to the general feeling of hostility on the astral
plane. for the organised butchery of animals in
slaughter-houses and for .. sport .. sends millions into
the astral world, full of horror, terror and shrinking
from man. Of late years these feelings have been
much intensified by the practice of vivisection.
3. Natu,e-Spi,its of all Kinds.-This class is so large .of P 76-77.
and so varied that it is possible here to give only some
idea of the characteristics common to all of them.
The nature-spirits belong to an evoiution quite
distinct from our own: they neither have been nor
ever will be members of a humanity such as ours.
Their only connection with us is that we temporarily
occupy the same planet. They appear to correspond
to the animals of a higher evolution. They are
divided into seven great classes, inhabiting the same
seven states of matter permeated by the corresponding
varieties of elemental essence. Thus, there are nature- .of P 78.
.spiri~s of the earth, water, air, fire {or ether)-deJinite, jt::;.
mtelligent astral entities residing and functioning in T B 8~. .
each of those media.
Only the members of the air class normally reside
in the astral world, but their numbers are so prodigious
that they are everywhere present in it.
In medizvalliterature earth-spirits are often called
gnomes, water-spirits undines, air-spirits sylphs, and
ether-spirits salamanders. In popular language they
have been variously called fairies, pixies, elves,
brownies, peris, djinns, trolls, satyrs, fauns, kobolds,
imps, goblins, good people, etc.
Their forms are many and various, but most fre-
ISo THE ASTRAL BODY
quently human in shape and somewhat diminutive in
size. Like almost all astral entities they are able
to assume any appearance at will, though they un-
doubtedly have favourite forms which they wear when
they have no specialobject in taking any other. Usually
they are invisible to physical sight, but they have the
power of making themselves visible by materialisation
when they wish to be seen.
At the head of each of these classes is a great Being,
the directing and guiding intelligence of the whole
department of nature which is administered and
energised by the class of entities under his control.
These are known by the Hindus as (I) Ind"(I, lord of
the Alcasha, orether: (2) Ag"i, lord of me : (3) P(lf)(I,""
lord of air: (4) Va,.u,"" lord of water: (5) Kshiti, lord
of earth.
The vast kingdom of nature-spirits, as stated above,
is in the main an astral kingdom, though a large
section of it appertains to the etheric levels of the
physical plane.
t : ~. There is an immense number of sub-divisions or
H s 141~3_ races among them, individuals varying in intelligence
~4~ 0 and disposition just as human beings do. Most of
Ion: 198- them avoid man altogether: his habits and emanations
are distasteful to them, and the constant rush of astral
currents set up by his restless, ill-regulated desires
disturbs and annoys them. Occasionally,however,they
willmake friendswith human beingsand evenhelpthem.
The helpful attitude is rare: in most cases they
exhibit either indifference or dislike, or take an impish
delight in deceivingand tricking men. Many instances
of this may be found in lonely mountainous districts
and in the SNffU room.
They are greatly assisted in their tricks by the
wonderful power of glamour they possess, so that
their victims see and hear only what these fairies
impress '!pon them, exactly as with mesmerised
subjects. The nature-spirits, however, cannot dominate
the human will, except in the case of very weak-
minded people, or of those who allow terror to paralyse
ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HUMAN 181
their will. They can deceive the senses only, and they
have been known to cast their glamour over a consider-
able number of people at the same time. Some of
the most wonderful feats of Indian jugglers are per-
lonned by invoking their aid in producing collective
hallucination.
They seem usually to have little sense of responsi- 5 G 0 I",
bility, and the will is generally less developed than in
the average man. They can, therefore, readily be
dominated mesmerically and employed to carry out
the will of the magician. They may be utilised for
many purposes, and will carry out tasks within their
power faithfully and surely.
They are also responsible, in certain mountainous A P 107.
regions,for throwing a glamour over a belated traveller, Ht I 14,..
so that he sees, for example,' houses and people where 14
he knows none really exist. These delusions are
frequently not merely momentary, but may be main-
tained for quite a considerable time, the man going
through -quite a long series of imaginary but striking
adventures and then suddenly finding that all his
brilliant surroundings have vanished, and that he is
left standing in a lonely valley or on a wind-swept
plain.
In order to cultivate their acquaintance and friend- H S 11 324-
ship, a man must be free from physical emanations 326•
which they detest, such as those of meat, alcohol.
tobacco, and general uncleanliness, as well as from
lust, anger, envy, jealousy, avarice and depression,
i.«, he must be clean and unobjectionable both phy-
sically and astrally. High and pure feelings which
bum steadily and without wild surgings create an
atmosphere in which nature-spirits delight to bathe.
Almost all nature-spirits delight also in music: they
may even enter a house in order to enjoy it, bathing
in the sound-waves, pulsating and swaying in harmony
with them.
To nature-spirits must also be attributed a large A P 107-
portion of what are called physical phenomeua at ;"08SP~4I­
spiritualistic slanus: indeed, many a stance has been 149.
H S 1162-
163.
H S 1139.
THE ASTRAL BODY
given entirely by these mischievous creatures. They
are capableofanswering questions,deliveringpretended
messages by raps or tilts, exhibiting .. spirit" lights,
the appon of objects from a distance, the reading of
thoughts in the mind of any person present, the
precipitation of writingor drawings, and even1l".aterial-
isations. They could, of course, also employ their
power of glamour to supplement their other tricks.
They may not in the least mean to harm or deceive,
but naIvely rejoice in their success in playing their
part. and in the awe-stricken devotion and affection
lavished upon them as .. dear spirits" and .. angel-
helpers." They share the delight of the sitters and
feel themselves to be doing a good work in thus com-
forting the afBicted.
They will also sometimes masquerade in thought-
forms that men have made, and think it a great joke
to flourish horns, to lash a forked tail, and to breathe
out flame as they rush about. Occasionally an
impressionable child may be terrified by such appear-
ances. but in fairness to the nature-spirit it must be
remembered that he himself is incapable of fear and
so does not understand the gravity of the result,
probably thinking that the child's terror is simulated
and a part of the game.
None of the nature-spirits possess a permanent
reincarnating individuality. It seems, therefore, that
in their evolution a much greater proportion of intelli-
gence is developed beforeindividualisationtakes place.
The life periods of the various classes vary greatly,
some being quite short, others much longer than our
human lifetime. Their existence on the whole appears
to be simple, joyous, irresponsible, such as a party
of happy children might lead among exceptionally
favourable physical surroundings.
There is no sex among nature-spirits. there is no
disease, and there is no struggle for existence. They
have keen affections and can form close and lasting
friendships. Jealousy and anger are possible to them,
but seemquickly to fade away beforethe overwhelming
ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HUMAN
delight in all the operations of nature which is their
most prominent characteristic.
Their bodies have no internal structure, so that ]J S I '41.
they cannot be torn asunder or injured, neither has
heat or cold any effect upon them. They appear to
be entirely free from fear.
Though tricky and mischievous, they are rarely
malicious, unless definitely provoked. As a body they
distrust man, and generally resent the appearance of A P 81.
a newcomer on the astral plane, so that he usually
meets them in an unpleasant or terrifying fonn. If,
however, he declines to be frightened by them they
soon accept him as a necessary evil and take no further
notice of him, while some may even become friendly.
One of their keenest delights is to play with and to 11 S 1 I"J.
entertain in a hundred different ways children on the
astral plane who are what we call " dead."
Some of the less childlike and more dignified have
sometimes been reverenced as wood-gods or local
village gods. These would appreciate the flattery
paid them, and would no doubt be willing to do any
small service they could in return.
The Adept knows how to use the services of the A P 81.
nature-spirits, and frequently entrusts them with H oS J 158-
100.
pieces of work, but the ordinary magician can do so
only by invocation, that is,by attracting their attention
as a suppliant and making some kind of a bargain with
them, or by evocation, that is, by compelling their
obedience. Both methods are extremely undesirable:
evocation is also exceedingly dangerous, as the operator
would arouse a hostility which might prove fatal to
him. No pupil of a Master would ever be permitted
to attempt anything of the kind.
The highest type of nature-spirits consists of the 11 S 1 156
sylphs or the spirits of the air, which have the astral ISd.
body as their lowest vehicle. They have intelligence
equal to that of the average man. The normal method
for them to attain to individualisation is to associate
with and love the members of the next stage above
'Ilem-cne astra/ angels.
184 THE ASTRAL BODY
1 L 1 480• A nature-spirit who desires experience of human
life may obsess a personJiving in the physical world.
11S 1150. There have been times when a certain class of
nature-spirits have physically materialised themselves
and 51) entered into undesirable relationships with men
and women. Perhaps from this fact have come the
stories of fauns and satyrs, though these sometimes also
refer to quite a dif(erent sub-human evolution.
H S I 168- In passing, it is worth noting that although the
169- kingdom of the nature-spirits is radically dissimilar
from the human-being without sex, fear, or the
struggle for existence-yet the eventual result of its
unfoldment is in every respect equal to that attained
by humanity.
.If P 82-83. 4. TItI DIII4S.-The beings called by the Hindus
devas are elsewhere spoken of as angels, sons of God,
etc. They belong to an evolution distinct from that of
humanity, an evolution in which they may be regarded
as a kingdom next above humanity.
In Oriental literature the word deva is also used
vaguely to mean any kind of non-human entity. It
is used here in the restricted sense stated above.
1 L II 2"', They will never be human, because most of them are
already beyond that stage, but there are some of them
who have been human beings in the past.
1 t: II 246- The bodies of devas are more fluidic than those of
253· men, the texture of the aura being, so to speak, looser;
they are capable of far greater expansion and contrac-
tion, and have a certain fiery quality which is clearly
distinguishable from that of an ordinary human being.
The fonn inside the aura of a deva, which is nearly
always a human form, is much less defined than in a
man: the deva lives more in the circumference, more
all over his aura than a man does. Devas usually
appear as human beings of gigantic size. They have
a colour language, which is probably not as definite as
our speech, though in certain ways it may express more.
Devas are often near at hand and willing to expound
and exemplify subjects along their own line to any
human being sufficiently developed to appreciate them.
ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HUMAN
Though connected with the earth, the devas evolve .. P 83.
through a grand system of seven chains, the whole of
our seven worlds being as one world to them. Very
few of our humanity have reached the level at which
it is possible to join the deva evolution. Most of the
recruits of the deva kingdom have been derived from
other humanities in the solar system, some lower and
some higher than ours.
The object of the deva evolution is to raise their .. P 8,..
foremostrank to a much higher level than that intended
for humanity in the corresponding period.
The three lower great divisions of the devas are: .. P 84-85.
(I) K!madevas, whose lowest body is the astral: 1 L 11 245·
(2) Rtipadevas, whose lowest body is the lower
mental: (3) Artipadevas, whose lowest body is the
higher mental or causal.
For Rtipadevas and Artipadevas to manifest on the
astral plane is at least as rare as for an astral entity
to materialise on the physical plane.
Above these classes are four other great divisions,
and above and beyond the deva kingdom are the-great
hosts of the Planetary Spirits.
We are concerned here principally with the K~ma· .. P 115.
devas. The general average among them is much
higher than among us. for all that is definitely evil
has long ago been eliminated from them. They differ
widely in disposition. and a really spiritual man may
well stand higher in evolution than some of them.
Their attention can be attracted by certain magical
evocations.but the only human willwhichcan dominate
theirs is that of a certain high class of Adepts.
As a rule they seem scarcely consciousof our physical
world. though occasionally one of them may render
assistance. much as any of us would help an animal
in trouble. They understand. however. that at the
present stage, any interference with human affairs is
likely to do far more harm than good.
It is desirable to mention here the four Deva,etjas, .. " 85-86.
though they do not strictly belong to any of our classes.
These four have passed through an evolution which
186 THE ASTRAL BODY
is certainly not anything corresponding to our
humanity.
They are spoken of as the Regents of the Earth, the
Angels of the four Cardinal Points, or the Cbatur
MaMnljas. They rule, not over devas, but over the
four .. elements" of earth, water, air and fire, with
their indwelling nature-spirits and essences. Other
items of information concerning them are for con-
venience tabulated below:-
Appropriate Elemental Symbolical
Name Point of Hosts Colour
Compass
Dhritarashtra East Gandharvaa White
Virlldhaka South Kumbhandas Blue
VirQpaksha West NAgas Red
Va.ishrlvana North Yakshas Gold
The Secret Doctrine mentions them as .. winged
globes and fiery wheels," and in the Christian Bible
Ezekiel attempts to describe them in very similar
words, Ref-rences to them are made in the symbology
of every religion, and they are always held in the
highest reverence as the protectors of mankind.
They are the agents of man's Kanna during his earth
life. and they thus play an extremely important part
in human destiny. The great Karmic deities of the
Kosmos, the Lipika, weigh the deeds of each person-
ality when the final separation of the principles takes
place at the end of its astral life, and give as it were
the mould of an etheric double exactly suitable to
its Karma for the man's next birth. But it is the
Devarajas, who, having command of the" elements"
of which that etheric double must be composed,arrange
their proportion so as to fulfilaccurately the intention
of the Lipika.
All through life they constantly counterbalance the
changes introduced into man's condition by his own
ASTRAL ENTITIES: NON-HUMAN
free will and that of those around him, so that Karma
may be accurately and justly worked out. A learned
dissertation on these beings will be found in The
Secret Doctrine, Vol. I, pp. 122-126. They are able
to take human material forms at will, and cases are
recorded where they have done so.
All the higher nature-spirits and hosts of artificial
elementals act as their agents in their stupendous
work: but all the threads are in their own hands and
they assume the whole responsibility. They seldom
manifest on the astral plane, but when they do they
are certainly the most remarkable of its non-human
inhabitants.
There must really be seven, not four, Devari.jas, but
outside the circle of Initiation little is known and less
may be said concerning the higher three.
CHAPTER XXI
ASTRAL ENTITIES: ARTIFICIAL
A P 87, THE artificial entities iotm the largest class and are
also much the most important to man. They consist
of an enonnous inchoate mass of semi-intelligent
entities. differing among themselves as human thoughts
differ, and practically incapable of detailed classification
and arrangement. Being entirely man's own creation,
they are related to him by close karmic bonds, and
their action upon him is direct and incessant.
A P 88. r, Elementals f01me4 Unconsciously.-The way in
which these desire- and thought-forms are called into
being has already been described in Chapter VII.
The desire and thought of a man seize upon the plastic
elemental essence and mould it instantly into a living
being of appropriate form. The form is in no way
under the control of its creator, but lives out a life
of its own, the length of which is proportional to the
intensity of the thought which created it, and which
may be anything from a few minutes to many days.
For further particulars the student is referred back to
Chapter VII.
A p 95 96. 2. Elementals f01med Consciously.-It is clear that
e1ementals formed. consciously, by those who are
acting deliberately and know precisely what they are
doing, may be enormously more powerful than those
formed unconsciously. Occultists of both white and
dark schools frequently use artificial elementals in
their work, and few tasks are beyond the powen
of such creatures when scientifically prepared and
directed with knowledge and skill. One who knowshow
to do so can maintain a connection with his elemental
and guide it, so that it will act practically as though
endowed with the full intelligence of its master.
ASTRAL ENTITIES: ARTIFICIAL IBg
It is unnecessary to repeat here descriptions of this
class of elemental, which have already been given in
Chapter VII.
3. Human Arlificials.-This is a very peculiar class, A P 98.
containing but few individuals, but possessing an
importance quite out of proportion to its numbers,
owing to its intimate connection with the spiritualistic
movement.
In order to explain its genesis it is necessary to go A P w·
back to ancient Atlantis. Among the lodges for
occult study, preliminary to Initiation, formed by
Adepts of the Good Law, there is one which still
observes the same old-world ritual, and teaches the
same Atlantean tongue as a sacred and hidden language,
as in the days of Atlantis.
The teachers in this lodge do not stand at the Adept A P 100.
level, and the lodge is not directly a part of the Brother-
hood of the Himalayas, though there are some of the
Himalayan Adepts who were connected with it in
former incarnations.
About the middle of the nineteenth century, the
chiefs 'of this lodge, in despair at the rampant
materialism of Europe and America, determined to
combat it by novel methods, and to offer opportunities
by which any reasonable man could acquire proof of a
life apart from the physical body.
The movement thus set on foot grew into the vast
fabric of modem spiritualism, numbering its adherents
by millions. Whatever other results may have
followed, it is unquestionable that by means of
spiritualism vast numbers of people have acquired
a belief in at any rate some kind of future life. This A P 101.
is a magnificent achievement, though some think that
it has been attained at too great a cost.
The method adopted was to take some ordinary
person after death, arouse him thoroughly upon the
astral plane, instruct him to a certain extent in the
powers and possibilities belonging to it, and then put
him in charge of a spiritualistic circle. He in his
turn If developed " other departed personalities along
190 THE ASTRAL BODY
the same lines, they all acted upon those who sat at
their seances, and .. developed II them as mediums.
The leaders of the movement no doubt occasionally
manifested themselves in astral form at the circles,
but in most cases they merely directed and guided as
they considered necessary. There is little doubt that
the movement increased so much that it soon got
quite beyond their control; for many of the later
developments, therefore, they can be held onlyindirectly
responsible.
The intensification of the astral lifeof the" controls II
who were put in charge of circles distihctly delayed
their natural progress, and although it was thought
that full compensation for such loss would result from
the good karma of leading others to truth, it was soon
found that it was impossible to make use of a .. spirit-
guide II for any length of time without doing him
serious and permanent injury.
In some cases such .. guides II were withdrawn, and
others substituted for them. In others, however, it
was considered undesirable to make such a change,
and then a remarkable expedient was adopted which
gave rise to the curious class of creatures we have
called .. human artificials.II
A P 103. The higher principles of the original .. guide II were
allowed to pass on to their long-delayed evolution into
the heaven-world, but the shade (see p. 170) which
he left behind was taken possession of, sustained, and
operated upon so that it might appear to the circle
practically just as before.
At first this seems to have been done by members of
the lodge, but eventually it was decided that the
departed person who would have been appointed to
succeed the late .. spirit-guide II should still do so, but
should take possession of the latter's shade or shell,
and, in fact, simply wear his appearance. This is what
is termed a .. human artificial II entity.
In some cases more than one change seems to have
been made without arousing suspicion, but, on the
other hand, some investigators of spiritualism have
ASTRAL ENTITIES: ARTIFICIAL
observed that after a considerable time differences
suddenly appeared in the manner and disposition of
a" spirit."
None of the members of the Himalayan Brotherhood
have ever undertaken the formation of an artificial
entity of this sort, though they could not interfere
with anyone who thought it right to take such a
course.
Apart from the deception involved, a weak point
in the arrangement is that others besides the original
lodge may adopt the plan, and there is nothing to .4 P 103.
prevent black magicians from supplying communi-
cating spirits, as, indeed, they have been known to do.
CHAPTER XXII
SPIRITUALISM
THE term "spiritualism" is used nowadays to denote
communication of many different kinds with the astral
world by means of a medium,
The origin and history of the spiritualistic movement
have already been described in Chapter XXI.
The etheric mechanism which makes spiritualistic
phenomena possible has been fully described in Till
Etheric DO'Uble, to which work the student is referred.
There remains now for us to consider the value, if
any, of this method of communicating with the unseen
world, and the nature of the sources from which the
communications may come.
I L 13090 In the early days of the Theosophical Society,
H. P. Blavatsky wrote with considerable vehemence
on the subject of spiritualism, and laid great stress
on the uncertainty I>f the whole thing, and the pre-
ponderance of personations over real appearances.
A • P. There seems little doubt that these views have largely
coloured and determined the unfavourable attitude
which most members of the Theosophical Society take
towards spiritualism as a whole.
1 L I 109- Bishop Leadbeater, on the other hand, affirms that
.10. his own personal experience has been more.favourable.
He spent some years experimenting with spiritualism,
and believes that he has himself repeatedly seen
practically all the phenomena which may be read
about in the literature of the subject.
In his experience, he found that a distinct
majority of the apparitions were genuine. The
messages they give are often uninteresting, and their
religious teaching he describes as being usually
.. Christianity and water": nevertheless, as far as
SPIRITUALISM 193
it goes, it is liberal, and in advance of the bigoted
orthodox position.
Bishop Leadbeater points out that Spiritualists and 1 L 1 208-
Theosophists have much important ground in common, ~~ D 399-
'.g., (I) that life after death is an actual, vivid, ever- 40 1•
present certainty; and (2) that eternal progress and
ultimate happiness, for every one, good and bad alike,
is also a certainty. These two items are of such
tremendous and paramount importance, constituting
as they do so enormous an advance from the ordinary
orthodox position, that it seems somewhat regrettable
that Spiritualists and Theosophists cannot join hands
on these broad issues and agree, for the present, to
differ upon minor points, until at least the world at
large is converted to that much of the truth. In this
work there is ample room for the two bodies of seekers
after truth.
Those who wish to see phenomena, and those who
cannot believeanything without ocular demonstration,
will naturally gravitate towards spiritualism. On the
other hand, those who want more philosophy than
spiritualism usually provides, will naturally tum to
Theosophy. Both movements thus cater for the
liberal and open-minded, but for quite different types
of them. Meanwhile, harmony and agreement between
the two movements seems desirable, in view of the
great ends at stake.
It must be said to the credit of spiritualism that it A P 100-
has achieved its purpose to the extent of converting 101.
vast numbers of people from a belief in nothing in
particular to a firm faith in at any rate some kind of
future life. This, as we said in the last chapter, is
undoubtedly a magnificent result, though there are
those who think that it has been attained at too great
a cost.
There is undoubtedly danger in spiritualism for s P 77.
emotional, nervous and easily influenced natures, and
it is advisable not to carry the investigations too far,
for reasons which by now must be apparent to the
student. But there is no readier way of breaking
194 THE ASTRAL BODY
LADso.
1 H (13-84.
AP411.
OSD40B,
409·
down the unbelief in anything outside the physical
plane than trying a few experiments, and it is
perhaps worth while to run some risk in order to
effect this.
LAD 3-+. Bishop Leadbeater fearlessly asserts that, in spite
os D 2'. of the fraud and deception which undoubtedly have
occurred in some instances, there are great truths
behind spiritualism which may be discovered by anyone
willing to devote the necessary time and patience to
their investigation. There is, of course, a vast and
growing literature on the subject.
Furthermore, good work, similar to that done by
Invisible Helpers (see Chapter XXVIII), has some-
times been done through the agency of a medium,
or of some one present at a seance. Thus, though
spiritualism has too often detained souls, who but
for it would have att.ained speedy liberation, yet it has
also furnished the means of escape to others, and thus
opened up the path of advancement for them. There
have been instances in which the deceased person has
been able to appear, without the assistance of a medium,
to his relatives and friends, and explain his wishes to
them. But such cases are rare, and in most cases
earth-bound souls can relieve themselves of their
anxieties only by means of the services of a medium,
or of a conscious" Invisible Helper."
It is thus an error to look only at the dark side
of spiritualism: it must not be forgotten that it
has done an enormous amount of good in this kind
of work, by giving to the dead an opportunity to
arrange their affairs after a sudden and unexpected
departure.
T L 1 210- The student of these pages should not be surprised
~m. that amongst spiritualists are some who know nothing,
for example, of reincarnation, though there are schools
of spiritualism which do teach it. We have already
seen that when a man dies, he usually resorts to the
company of those whom he has known on earth : he
moves among exactly the same kind of people as during
physical life. Hence such a man is little more likely
SPIRITUALISM I9S
to know or recognise the fact of reincarnation after
death than before it. Most men are shut in from all
new ideas by a host of prejudices: they carry those
prejudices into the astral world with them, and are no
more amenable to reason and common-sense there than
in the physical world.
Of course a man who is really open-minded can
learn a great deal on the astral plane: he may speedily
acquaint himself with the whole of the Theosophical
teaching, and there are dead men who do this. Hence
it often happens that portions of that teaching are
found among spirit-comrnunications.
It must also be borne in mind that there is a higher 1 L 1 au-
spiritualism of which the public knows nothing, and ;rs1 35,5-
which never publishes any account of its results. The 357·
best circles of all are strictly private, restricted to a
small number of sitters. In such circles the same
people meet over and over again, and no outsider is
ever admitted to make any change in the magnetism.
The conditions set up are thus singularly perfect, and
the results obtained are often of the most surprising
character. Often the so-called dead are just as much
part of the daily life of the family as the living. The
hidden side of such siances is magnificent: the thought-
forms surrounding them are good, and calculated to
raise the mental and spiritual level of the district.
At public siances an altogether lower class of dead
people appear, because of the promiscuous jumble of
magnetism.
One of the most serious objections to the general .4 P 4&-47.
practice of spiritualism, is that in the ordinary man
after death the consciousness is steadily rising from the
lower part of the nature towards the higher: the ego,
as we have repeatedly said, is steadily withdrawing
himself away from the lower worlds: obviously,
therefore, it cannot be helpful to his evolution that the
lower part should bere-awakened from the natural and
desirable unconsciousness into which it is passing, and
dragged back into touch with earth in order to com-
municate through a medium.
Ig6
DA 33.
~P47·
D.If 34.
OS D ~02.
A W 12:1-
1:13·
HSI3.58.
OSD4°:l..
!Ol'o :13:1.
THE ASTRAL BODY
It is thus a cruel kindness to draw back to the earth-
sphere one whoselower manas still yearns after k1mic
gratifications, because it delays his forward evolution
and interrupts what should be an orderly progression.
The period in kamaloka is thus lengthened, the astral
body is fed, and its hold on the ego is maintained ;
thus the freedom of the soul is deferred, " the immortal
Swallow being still held by the birdlime of earth:'
Especially in cases of suicide or sudden death is it
most undesirable to re-awaken Trishna, or the desire
for sentient existence.
The peculiar danger of this will appear when it is
recollected that since the ego is withdrawing into
himself, he becomes less and less able to inftuence or
guide the lower portion of his consciousness, which,
nevertheless, until the separation is complete, has the
power to generate karma, and under the circumstances
is far more likely to add evil than good to its record.
Furthermore, people who have led an evil life and
are filled with yearnings for the earth life they have
left, and for the animal delights they can no longer
directly taste, tend to gather round mediums or
sensitives, endeavouring to utilise them for their own
gratification. These are among the more dangerous
of the forces so rashly confronted in their ignoranceby
the thoughtless and the curious.
A desperate astral entity may seize upon a sensitive
sitter and obsesshim, or he may even follow him home
and seizeupon his wife or daughter. There have been
many such cases, and usually it is almost impossible
to get rid of such an obsessingentity.
We have already seen that passionate sorrow and
desires of friends on earth also tend to draw departed
entities down to the earth-sphere again, thus often
causing acute suffering to the deceased as well as
interfering with the normal course of evolution,
Turning now to the kinds of entities who may
communicate through a mediwn, wemay classifythem
as follows:-
SPIRITUALISM 197
Deceased human beings on the astral plane.
Deceased human beings in devachan.
Shades.
Shells.
Vitalised shells.
Nature-Spirits.
The medium's ego.
Adepts.
Nirmanakayas,
As most of these have already been described in
Chapter XIV on Astral Entities, little more need be
said about them here.
It is theoretically possible for any deceased person D.If M.
on the astral plane to communicate through a medium, A P 108-
though this is far easier from the lower levels, becoming
more and more difficult as the entity rises to the higher-
sub-planes. Hence, other things being equal, it is
natural to expect that a majority of the communica-
tions received at seances will be from the lower
levels and therefore from relatively undeveloped
entities.
The student will recollect (seepage 138) that suicides. D A 36-31.
and other victims of sudden death, including executed
criminals, having been cut off in the full flush of
physical life, are especially likely to be drawn to a
medium, in the hope of satisfying their Trishnl, or
thirst for life.
Consequently, the medium is the cause of developing
in them a new set of Skandhas (see page 208), a new
body with far worse tendencies and passions than the
one they lost. This would be productive of untold
evils for the ego, and cause him to be re-bom into a
far worse existence than before.
Communication with an entity in devachan, i.,., in
the heaven-world, needs a little further explanation.
Where a sensitive, or medium, is of a pure and lofty
nature, his freed ego may rise to the devachanic plane
and there contact the entity in devachan. The
impression is often given that the entity from devachan
has come to the medium, but the truth is the reverse of
IgS
A P 49-51.
D A 39-4°.
A P 51-53.
D A 39-4°.
S P 43.
A P 54.
THE ASTRAL BODY
this: it is the ego of the medium who has risen to the
level of the entity in devachan.
Owing to the peculiar conditions of the consciousness
of entities in devachan (into which we cannot enter in
this book), messages thus obtained cannot altogether
be relied upon: at best the medium or sensitive can
know, see and feel only what the particular entity in
devachan knows, sees and feels. Hence, if generalisa-
tions are indulged in, there is much possibility of error,
since each entity in devachan lives in his own particular
department of the heaven-world.
In addition to this source of error,whilstthethoughts,
knowledge and sentiments of the devachanic entity
form the substance, it is likely that the medium's own
personality and pre-existing ideas will govern the form
of the communication.
A shade (see page 170) may frequently appear and
communicate at seances,' bearing the exact appearance
of the departed entity, possessing his memory, idio-
syncrasies, etc., it is often mistaken for the entity
himself, though it is not itself conscious of any imper-
sonation. It is in reality a .. soulless bundle of the
lowest qualities" of the entity.
A shell (see page 171) also exactly resembles the
departed entity, though it is nothing more than the
astral corpse of the entity, every particle of mind
having left it. By coming within reach of a medium's
aura it may be galvanised for a few moments into a
burlesque of the real entity.
Such " spooks" are conscienceless, devoid of good
impulses, tending towards disintegration, and conse-
quently can work for evil only, whether we regard them
as prolonging their vitality by vampirising at seances,
or polluting the medium and sitters with astral con-
nections of an altogether undesirable kind.
A vilalised shell (seepage 172) may also communicate
through a medium. As we have seen, it consists of an
astral corpse animated by an artificial elemental, and
is always malevolent. Obviously it constitutes a
source of great danger at spiritualistic seances.
199
SPIRITUALISM
Suicides, shades and vitalised shells, being minor A P 57.
vampires, drain away vitality from human beings whom
they can influence. Hence both medium and sitters
are often weak and exhausted after a physical stance.
A student of occultism is taught how to guard himself
from their attempts, but without that knowledge it is
difficult for one who puts himself in their way to avoid
being laid more or less under contribution by them.
It is the use of shades and shells at stances which D A 40.
brands so many of spiritualistic communications with
intellectual sterility. Their apparent intellectuality
will give out only reproductions: the mark of non-
originality will be present, there being no sign of new
and independent thought.
Nature-Spirits. The part which these creatures so
often play at stances has already been described on
pages 182 et sqq.
Many of the phenomena of the stance-room are D A 41.
clearly more rationally accounted for as the tricky
vagaries of sub-human forces, than as the act of
.. spirits" who, while in the body, were certainly
incapable of such inanities.
The medium's ego. If the medium be pure and D A 73.
earnest and striving after the light, such upward
striving is met by a down-reaching of the higher
nature, .light from the higher streaming down and
illwninating the lower consciousness. Then the lower
mind is, for the time, united with its parent the higher
mind, and transmits as much of the knowledge of the
higher mind as it is able to retain. Thus some com-
munications through a medium may come from the
medium's own higher ego.
The class of entity drawn to stances depends of s P 200
course very much on the type of medium. Mediums
of low type inevitably attract eminently undesirable
visitors, whose fading vitality is reinforced in the
stance-room. Nor is this all: if at such stances there
be present a man or woman of correspondingly low
development, the spook will be attracted to that
person and may attach itself to him or her, thus setting
200 THE ASTRAL BODY
up currents between the astral body of the living
person and the dying astral body of the dead person,
and generating results of a deplorable kind.
D A 73. An Adept or Master often communicates with His
disciples, without using the ordinary methods of
communication. If a medium were a pupil of a
Master, it is possible that a message from the Master
might ff come through," and be mistaken for a message
from a more ordinary" spirit."
D A 72. A Nirmanak4ya is a perfected man, who has cast
aside his physical body but retains his other lower
principles, remaining in touch with the earth for the
sake of helping the evolution of mankind. These
great entities can and do on rare occasionscommunicate
through a medium, but only through one of a very
pure and lofty nature. (See also page 175.)
1 L 1 6I~.5. Unless a man has had very wide experience with
~a:' D 3
2.5-
mediumship, he would find it difficult to believe how
many quite ordinary, people on the astral plane are
burning with the desire to pose as great world-teachers.
Usually they are honest in their intentions, and really
think they have teaching to give which will save the
world. Having realised the worthlessness of merely
worldly objects, they feel, quite rightly, that if they
could impress upon mankind their own ideas the whole
world would immediately become a very different
place.
Having flattered the medium into believing that he
or she is the sole channel for some exclusive and
transcendent teaching, and having modestly disclaimed
any special greatness for himself, one of these com-
municating entities is often imagined by the sitters to
be at least an archangel,or even somemore direct mani-
festation of the Deity. Unfortunately, however, it
is usually forgotten by such an entity that when he
was alive in the physical world, other people were
making similar communications through various
mediums, and that he paid not the slightest attention
to them. He does not realise that others also, still
immersed in the affairs of the world, will pay no more
SPIRITUALISM 201
attention to him and will decline to be moved by his
communications.
Sometimes such entities will assume distinguished
names, such as George Washington, Julius Cesar, or
the Archangel Michael, from the questionably pardon-
able motive that the teachings they give will so be
more likely to be accepted than if they emanate from
plain John Smith or Thomas Brown.
Sometimes also, such entities, seeing the minds of
others full of reverence for the Masters, will personate
these very Masters in order to command more ready
acceptance for the ideas they wish to promulgate.
Also there are some who attempt to injure the work
of the Master by assuming His form and so influencing
His pupil. Although they might be able to produce
an almost perfect physical appearance, it is quite
impossiblefor them to imitate a Master's causal body,
and consequently one with causal sight could not
possibly be deceived by such an impersonation.
In a lew instances the members of the lodge of .of P I~.
occultists who originated the spiritualistic movement
(seepage 191) have themselves given valuable teachings
on deeply interesting subjects, through a medium.
But this has invariably been at strictly private family
s4ances, never at public performances for which money
has been paid.
The VDice of the Silence wisely enjoins: "Seek not 1 L 1 65.
thy Guru in these rna-ya-vic regions." No teaching
from a sell-appointed preceptor on the astral plane
should be blindly accepted: all communications and
advice which comes thence should be received precisely
as one would receive similar advice on the physical
plane. Teaching should be taken for what it is worth,
after examination by conscienceand intellect.
A man is no more infallible because he happens to M 101.
be dead than when he was physically alive. A man
may spend many years on the astral plane and yet
know no more than when he left the physical world.
Accordingly we should attach no more importance to
communications from the astral world, or from any
202 THE ASTRAL BODY
higher plane, than we should to a suggestion made on
the physical plane.
.4 P JoS-Jog. A manifesting " spirit" is often exactly what it
~OfS: ~2': professes to be: but often also it is nothing of the
kind. For the ordinary sitter there is no means of
distinguishing the true from the false, since the re-
sources of the astral plane can be used to delude
persons on the physical plane to such an extent that
no reliance can be placed even on what seems the most
convincing proof. It is not for a moment denied that
important communications have been made at siances
by genuine entities: but it is claimed that it is prac-
tically impossible for an ordinary sitter to be quite
certain that he is not being deceived in half a dozen
different ways.
D.4 73-7+ From. the above it will be seen how varied may be
the sources from which communications from the astral
world may be received. As said by H. P. Blavatsky:
.. The variety of the causes of phenomena is great, and
we need to be an Adept, and actually look into and
examine what transpires, in order to be able to explain
in each case what really underlies it."
To complete the statement, it may be said that
what the average person can do on the astral plane
after death he can do in physical life : communications
may be as readily obtained by writing, in trance, or
by utilising the developed and trained powers of the
astral body, from embodied as from disembodied
persons. It would therefore seem to be more prudent
to develop within oneself the powers of one's own soul,
instead of ignorantly plunging into dangerous experi-
ments. In this manner knowledge may be safely
accumulated and evolution accelerated. Man must
learn that death has no real power over him: the key
of the prison-house of the body is in his own hands,
and he may learn how to use it if he wills.
.4 E P. From a careful weighing of all the evidence
available, both for and against spiritualism, it would
seem that, if employed with care and discretion, it
may be justifiable, purely in order to break down
SPIRITUALISM
materialism. Once this purpose is achieved, its use
seems too beset with dangers, both to the living and
the dead, to make it advisable. as a general rule,
though in exceptional cases it may be practised with
safety and bene1it.
2°3
S P4r.
Dd 30.
SP41•
CHAPTER XXIII
ASTRAL DEATH
WE have now reached the end of the life-history of the
astral body, and little remains to be said regarding its
death and final dissolution.
The steady withdrawal of the ego, as we have seen,
causes, in a time which varies within very wide limits,
the particles of the astral body gradually to cease to
function, this process taking place, in most cases, in
layers arranged according to degree of density, the
densest being on the outside.
t LII24-25. The astral body thus slowly wears away and disin-
tegrates as the consciousness is gradually withdrawn
from it by the half-unconscious effort of the ego, and
thus the man by degrees gets rid of whatever holds him
back from the heaven-world.
During the stay on the astral plane, in k~aloka,
the mind, woven with the passions, emotions and
desires, has purified them, and assimilated their pure
part, and has absorbed into itself all that is fit for the
higher ego, so that the remaining portion of KAma is a
mere residue, from which the ego, the Immortal Triad
of Atma-Buddhi-Manas (as it is often called), can
readily free itself. Slowly the Triad or ego draws into
itself the memories of the earth-life just ended, its
loves, hopes, aspirations, etc., and prepares to pass
out of kamaloka into the blissful state of devachan,
the" abode of the gods," the" heaven-world."
Into the history of the man when he has reached
the heaven-world we cannot enter here, as it lies
beyond the scope of this treatise: it is hoped, however,
to deal with it in the third volume of this series.
For the moment, however, it may be said, in brief,
that the period spent in devachan is the time for the
ASTRAL DEATH 205
assimilation of life experiences, the regaining of
equilibrium, ere a new descent into incarnation is
undertaken. It is thus the day that succeeds the
night of earth-life, the subjective as contrasted with
the objective period of manifestation.
When the man passes out of kAmalokainto devachan, M B 59: 18.
he cannot carry thither with him thought-forms of an
evil type; astral matter cannot exist on the devachanic
level, and devachanic matter cannot answer to the
coarse vibrations of evil passions and desires. Con-
sequently all that the man can carry with him when
he finally shakes oft the remnants of his astral body
will be the latent germs or tendencies which, when
they can find nutriment or outlet, manifest as evil
desires and passions in the astral world. But these he
does take with him, and they lie latent throughout his
devachanic life, in the astral permanent atom. At S C 105 : 93 :
the end of the klmalokic life, the golden life-web (see 101-
108•
A Study in Consciousness, pages 91-93) withdraws
from the astral body, leaving it to disintegrate, and
enwraps the astral permanent atom, which then retreats
within the causal body.
The final struggle with the desire-e1emental (see ILL ,.07-
pp.6 & 108) takes place at the conclusion of the astral 408.
life, for the ego is then endeavouring to draw back into
himself all that he put down into incarnation at the
beginning of the life which has just ended. When he
attempts to do this he is met with determined opposi-
tion from the desire-elemental, which he himself has
created and fed.
In the case of all ordinary people, some of their
mental matter has become so entangled with their
astral matter that it is impossible for it to be entirely
freed. The result of the struggle is therefore that some
portion of the mental matter, and even of causal
(higher mental) matter is retained in the astral body
after the ego has completely broken away from it.
If, on the other hand, a man has during life completely
conquered his lower desires and succeeded in absolutely
freeing the lower mind from desire, there is practically
206
DA 31.
M B 101.
THE ASTRAL BODY
DO struggle, and the ego is able to withdraw Dot only all
that he .. invested " in that particular incarnation, but
also all the .. interest," i.e., the experiences, faculties,
etc., that have been acquired. There are also extreme
cases where the ego loses both the .. rapital " invested
and the .. interest," these being known as .. lost-souls "
or elementaries (see page 145).
The full treatment of the method in which the ego
puts a portion of himself down into incarnation and
then endeavours to withdraw it again, must clearly be
reserved for the third and fourth volumes of this
series, which will deal with the mental and causal
bodies.
The exit from the astral body and the astral plane
is thus a second death, the man leaving behind him an
astral corpse which, in its turn, disintegrates, its
materials being restored to the astral world, just as
the materials of the physical body are returned to the
physical world.
This astral corpse, and the various possibilities
which may happen to it, have already been dealt with
in Chapter XIX on Astral Entities, under the headings
Shades (page 170), Shells (page 171), Vitalised Shells
(page 172), etc.
CHAPTER XXIV
RE-BIRTH
AFTER the causes that carried the ego into devachan D A 61.
are exhausted, the experiences gathered having been ~I A68.
wholly assimilated, the ego begins to feel again the 90.
thirst for sentient material life, that can be gratified
only on the physical plane. That thirst is known by
the Hindus as trishnti.
It may be considered, first, as a desire to express 0 S D go.
himself: and second, as a desire to receive those
impressions from without which alone enable him to
feel himself alive. For this is the law of evolution.
Trishna appears to operate through kama, which, R 3~38: ..I.
for the individual as for the Cosmos, is the primary
cause of reincarnation.
During the devachanic rest the ego has been free D .A 6a-63.
from all pain and sorrow, but the evil he did in his K T 95·
past life has been in a state, not of death, but of
suspended animation. The seeds of past evil ten-
dencies commence to germinate as soon as the new
personality begins to form itself for the new incarnation.
The ego has to take up the burden of the past, the
germs or seeds coming over as the harvest of the past
life being called by the Buddhists skandhas.
Kama, with its army of skandhas, thus waits at the
threshold of devachan, whence the ego re-emerges to
assume a new incarnation. The skandhas consist of
material qualities, sensations, abstract ideas, tendencies
of mind, mental powers.
The process is brought about by the ego turning his 1 L 11 436-
attention, first to the mental unit, which immediately 07·
resumes its activity, and then to the astral permanent
atom, into which he puts his will.
The tendencies, which wehave seen are in a condition M B s9-60:
78: I~.
208 THE ASTRAL BODY
Dn.
.... P ZZ.
1 L 1390-
391•
1 L [,404.
O'S D 93.
H S 11283.
OS D 9Z~3. of suspended animation, are thrown outwards by the
:6~6;08 :ego as he returns to re-birth, and draw around them-
r N P 37-39. selves, first, matter of the mental plane, and also
elemental essence of the second great kingdom, these
expressing exactly the mental development which the
man had gained at the end of his last heaven-life. He
thus begins in this respect exactly where he left oft.
Next, he draws round himself matter from the astral
world, and elemental essence of the third kingdom,
thus obtaining the materials out of which his new
astral body will be built, and causing to re-appear the
appetites, emotions, and passions which he brought
over from his past lives.
The astral matter is gathered by the ego descending
to re-birth, not of course consciously,but automatically.
This material is, moreover, an exact reproduction of
the matter in the man's astral body at the end of his
last astral life. The man thus resumes his life in each
world just where he left it last time.
M B s~ : The student will recognise in the above a part of the
ic09
4
4
. workings of karmic law, into which we need not enter
in this present volume. Each incarnation is inevitably,
automatically, and justly linked with the preceding
lives, so that the whole series forms a continuous,
unbroken chain.
The astral matter thus drawn round the man is not
yet formed into a definite astral body. It takes, in
the first place, the shape of that ovoid which is the
nearest expression that we can realise of the true
shape of the causal body. As soon as the baby
physical body is formed, the physical matter exerts a
violent attraction for the astral matter, which pre-
viously was fairly evenly distributed over the ovoid,
and so concentrates the great bulk of it within the
periphery of the physical body.
As the physical body grows,the astral matter follows
its every change, 99 per cent. of it being concentrated
within the periphery of the physicalbody,andonlyabout
1 per cent. filling the rest of the ovoid and constituting
the aura, as we saw in an earlier chapter (seepage 1).
RE-BIRTH
The process of gathering matter round the astral K ...-e-
nucleus sometimes takes place rapidly, and sometimes
causes long delay; when it is completed the ego
stands in the karmic vesture he has prepared for
himself, ready to receive from the agents of the Lords
of Karma the etheric double, into which, as into a
mould, the new physical body will be built (see TJ..
Etheric DOfIble, page 67).
The man's qualities are thus not at first in action: H 5 II 283-
they are simply the genns of qualities, which have ;St 11 38-
secured for themselves a possible field of manifestation 439. 4
in the matter of the new bodies. Whether they 0 S D 94~"
develop in this life into the same tendencies as in the
last one will depend largely upon the encouragement,
or otherwise, given to them by the surroundings of the
child during his early years. Anyone of them, good
or bad, may be readily stimulated into activity by
encouragement, or, on the other hand, may be starved
out for lack of that encouragement. If stimulated, it
becomes a more powerful factor in the man's liIe this
time than it was in his previous existence; if starved
out, it remains merely as an unfructified genn, which
presently atrophies and dies out, and does not make
its appearance in the succeeding incarnation at all.
The child cannot thus be said to have as yet a definite
mind-body or a definite astral body, but he has around
and within him the matter out of which these are to
be builded.
Thus, for example, suppose a man was a drunkard osD ".16.
in his past life: in kAmaloka he would have burnt out
the desire for drink and be definitely freed from it.
But although the desire itself is dead, there still remains
the same weakness of character which made it possible
for him to be subjugated by it. In his next life his
astral body will contain matter capable of giving
apression to the same desire; but he is in no way
bound to employ such matter in the same way as
!'d0re. In the hands of careful and capable parents,
In fact, being trained to regard such desires as evil,
he would gain control over them, repress them as they
210 THE ASTRAL BODY
appear, and thus the astral matter will remain unvivi-
fled and become atrophied from want of use. It will
be recollected that the matter of the astral body is
slowly but constantly wearing away and being replaced,
precisely as is that of the physical body, and as
atrophied matter disappears it will be replaced by
matter of a more refined order. Thus are vices finally
conquered and made virtually impossible for the
future, the opposite virtue of self-control having been
established.
During the first few years of the man's life the ego
has but little hold over his vehicles, and he therefore
looks to his parents to help him to obtain a firmer
grasp and to provide him with suitable conditions.
H S II 28,- It is impossible to exaggerate the plasticity of these
a86. unformed vehicles. Much as can be done with the
physical body in its early years, as in the case of
children trained as acrobats, for example, far more can
be done with the astral and mental vehicles. They
thrill in response to every vibration which they en-
counter, and are eagerly receptive of all in1luences,
good or evil, emanating from those around them.
Moreover, though in early youth they are so suscep-
tible and so easily moulded, they soon set and stiffen
and acquire habits which, once firmly established, can
be altered only with great difficulty. Thus to a far
larger extent than is realised by even the fondest
parents, the child's future is under their control.
S G 0 578. It is only the clairvoyant who knows how enormously
and how rapidly child-characters would improve if
only adult characters were better.
M P 8,-36. A very striking instance is recorded where the
brulality of a teacher irreparably injured the bodies
of a child so as to make it impossible for the child in
this life to make the full progress that was hoped for it.
M P 88. So vitally important is the early environment of a
child that the life in which Adeptship is attained
must have absolutely perfect surroundings in childhood.
1 L 11 437. In the case of lower-class monads with unusually
strong astral bodies, who reincarnate after a very
RE-BIRTH 21I
short interval, it sometimes happens that the shade or
shell left over from the last astral life still persists,
and in that case it is likely to be attracted to the new
personality. When that happens it brings with it
strongly the old habits and modes of thought, and
sometimes even the actual memory of that past life.
In the case of a man who has led such an evil life 1 Y 129-13°.
that his astral and mental bodies are tom away from
the ego after death, the ego, having no bodies in which
to live in the astral and mental worlds, must quickly
form new ones. When the new astral and mental
bodies are formed, the affinity between them and the
old ones, not yet disintegrated, asserts itself, and the
old mental and astral bodies become the most terrible
fonn of what is known as the .. dweller on the
threshold."
In the extreme case of a man, returning to re-birth, 1 L 11 30-33.
who by vicious appetite or otherwise, has formed a
very strong link with any type of animal, he may be
linked by magnetic affinity to the astral body of the
animal whose qualities he has encouraged, and be
chained as a prisoner to the animal's physical body.
Thus chained he cannot go onward to re-birth: he is
conscious in the astral world, has his human faculties,
but cannot control the brute body with which he is
connected, nor express himself through that body on
the physical plane. The animal organism is thus a
jailor, rather than a vehicle. The animal soul is not
ejected, but remains as the proper tenant and controller
of its own body.
Such an imprisonment is not reincarnation, though
it is easy to see that cases of this nature explain at
least partially the belief often found in Oriental
countries that man may under certain circwnstances
reincarnate in an animal body.
In cases where the ego is not degraded enough for
absolute imprisonment, but in which the astral body
is strongly animalised, it may pass on normally to
human re-birth, but the animal characteristics will be
largely reproduced in the physical body-as witness the
ala THE ASTRAL BODY
people who in appearance are sometimes pig-faced,
dog-faced, etc. The sufferingentailed on the conscious
human entity, thus temporarily cut off from progress
and from self-expression, is very great, though, of
course, reformatory in its action. It is somewhat
similar to that endured by other egos, who are linked
to human bodies with unhealthy brains, i.e., idiots,
lunatics, etc., though idiocy and lunacy are the results
of other vices.
CHAPTER XXV
THE MASTERY OF EMOTION
THIS book will have been compiled in vain if the
student has not become impressed with the necessity,
first, of controlling the astral body: secondly, of
gradually training it into a vehicle of consciousness,
completely subservient to the will of the real man, the
ego: and thirdly, in due time, of steadily developing
and perfecting its various powers.
The average worldly person knows little and cares
less about such matters: but to the student of occul-
tism it is clearly of fundamental importance that he
should attain full mastery over all his vehicles-physi-
cal, astral and mental. And although for purposes of
analysis and study it is necessary to separate these
three bodies and study them individually, yet, in
practical life, it will be found that to a great extent
the training of all of them can be carried on simul-
taneously, any power gained in one helping to some
extent in the training of the other two.
We have already seen (page 64) the desirability of
purifying the physical body, by means of food, drink,
hygiene, etc., in order to make slightly less difficult
the control of the astral body. The same principle
applies with even greater force to the mental body,
for it is in the last analysis only by the use of mind and
will that the desires, emotions and passions of the
astral body can be brought into perfect subjection.
For many temperaments, at least, a careful study of
the psychology of emotion is of very great assistance,as
it isclearlymuch easierto bring under control a forcethe
genesisand nature of which is thoroughly understood.
For this purpose, the present writer very strongly
recommends a thorough study of the principles laid
214 THE ASTRAL BODY
down in that masterly treatise The Science of the
Emotions, by Bhagavan Das. (An admirable epitome
of this work has been written by Miss K. Browning,
M.A., under the title An Epitome of the Science of the
Emotions.) The main thesis may be very briefly set
out as follows.
S E I~SI. All manifested existence may be analysed into the
Self, the Not-Self, and the Relationship between these
two.
S E 1'-Z4. That Relationship may be divided into (I) Cognition
(Gnyanam) : (2) Desire (Ichcha) : (3) Action (Kriya).
To know, to desire, and to endeavour or act-those
three comprise the whole of conscious life.
S E SI-ZZ: Feeling or emotion is of two kinds-pleasurable or
~7 y'8°9-90. painful. Pleasure, fundamentally a sense of moreness,
S c 311. produces attraction, love (r~a): pain, fundamentally
a sense of lessness, produces repulsion, hate (dvesha).
From attraction proceed all love-emotions: from
repulsion proceed all hate-emotions. All emotions
arise from love or hate, or from both, in varying degrees
of intensity.
The precise nature of a particular emotion is also
determined by the relationship between the one who
experiences the emotion and the object which is the
occasion of the emotion. The one who experiences the
S B S9. emotion may be, so far as the circumstances connected
with the particular emotion are concerned, (I) Greater
SF. 55-38, than: (2) Equal to: or (3) Less than the object.
Pursuing this analysis, we arrive at the six possible
types of emotion-elements given in column three of
the table appended. Column four gives sub-divisions
of the primary elements in varying degrees of intensity,
the strongest being at the head and the weakest at the
foot of each group.
S E 59. All human emotions consist of one of these six
emotion-elements, or, more frequently, of two or more
of them combined together. The student must now
be referred to the treatise mentioned above for a
detailed elaboration of the fundamental principles set
forth above. His labour will be amply rewarded.
THE MASTERY OF EMOTION
GENESIS OF EMOTIONS
Relation towards the object
Ig.g~tati"
Primary Degrees
Emotion- of the
Qualitative Element Emotion
1 3 ~
WOlllhip
Adoration
IS__ Reverence Reverence
Esteem
Respect
Admiration
I
Affection
,
Comradeship
I
LOVE (for)--Equal A1fection Friendliness
\~
Politeness
I
I
ComplllSion
Benevolence Tendemess
Kindness
Pity
HOrTor
/~-
Fear Dread
Fear
Apprehension
Hostility
Rudeness
HATE (for)-Equal Anger Avelliion
-, Coldness
Aloofnell
Scorn
Pride or Disdain
Tyranny (a) Contempt
Supercilloue-
ness
(a) The English language appears to possess no ene word which
accurately describes this emotion-element.
Another valuable line of study, for the student who
is aiming at self-knowledge in order to attain self-
mastery, is that of collective or crowd-consciousness.
By far the best book, with which the present writer is
acquainted, on this interesting subject is The Crowd in
Peace and War, by Sir Martin Conway.
215
216 THE ASTRAL BODY
With wonderful lucidity and richness of illustration,
Sir Martin demonstrates the following fundamental
facts.
C P IV 4-8. (r) The great majority of men are brought up in,
and all their lives belong to, certain psychological
" crowds," •.e., groups of people who think, and above
all, feel similarly. Such crowds are those of the home,
friends and associates, schools and universities, pro-
fessions, religious sects, political parties, schools of
thought, nations, races, and so on. Even those who
read the same newspapers or belong to the same club
form a psychological " crowd."
e P IV 26- (2) Such crowds are in the main fonned by, nour-
;]~ ¥~94- ished on, and dominated by feeling or emotion-fSOt
29". by thought. A crowd has all the emotions,· but no
intellect: it can feel, but it cannot think. The
opinions of crowds are seldom or never reached by
reason, but are merely infectious passions which
sweep through the whole body like an electric current,
these frequently originating from a single brain.
Once caught up in the crowd, the individual rapidly
loses his power of individual thought and feeling, and
becomesone with the crowd, sharing its life,its opinions,
its attitudes, prejudices. and the like.
(3) Very few ever have the courage or the strength
to break away from the various crowds to which they
belong; the vast majority remain all their lives under
the sway of the crowds which have absorbed them.
e p W 27- Our author then proceeds to enumerate and describe
32
• the various crowd virtues and to show that they differ
from the virtues of the individual, being on the whole
at a much lower and more primitive level.
e P IV 8~ Every crowd, being unable to lead itself, needs and
19. finds a leader. Of such leaders there are three main
types.
(a) The Crowtl-CompelTu. He is one who domi-
nates and leads the crowd by imposing upon it his
own ideas by the sheer force of his own personality.
Examples of this type are Napoleon, Disraeli, Czsar,
Charlemagne.
THE MASTERY OF EMOTION
(6) The Crowd-Exponent. This type, totally dis- C P IV 101-
tinct from the Crowd-Compeller, is one which feels by 102.
natural sensitiveness what the crowd feels, or is going
to feel, and which expresses in clear and usually
graphic language the emotions of the crowd, which on
its own account is inarticulate. Such men seldom
think out problems for themselves and then proclaim
their gospel. Rather they wait for the emotions of the
crowd to take form: then they plunge into the thick
of the fray and say with eloquence, power and en-
thusiasm that which people about them are dimly and
vaguely feeling. Examples of this type are very
common, especially in the field of politics.
(c) The Crowd-Representative. Crowd leaders of C P IV n4-
this type are picturesque figureheads rather than 118.
individual forces. Typical examples are a constitu-
tional king, a consul, an ambassador, a judge (at any
rate in England). These men are merely the people,
.. public opinion," personified: they speak with the
voiceof the people, act for them, and stand for them in
the sight of the world. They must suppress or conceal
their own individual opinions, and appear to feel as
the public feels, to act in conformity with the public
wishesand sentiments.
The above is the merest sketch of the leading
principles enunciated in the extremely able book
mentioned, and the student is urged to make a careful
study of that work for himself. It will help him not
only to appreciate more justly the forces by which
.. the public" is swayed, but also to assessat their true
value many of his own beliefs, opinions and attitudes
towards many questions of the day.
It is clearly of the utmost importance that, in all H S 12gB.
his feelings and thoughts, the student of occultism
should act deliberately and consciously. The Greek
saying Gnothi seamon, Know Thyself, is a fine piece of I L I 260.
advice, for self-knowledge is absolutely necessary to
any candidate for progress. The student should not A W 81-8].
allow himself to be swept off his feet by becoming K 20.
submerged in a collective emotion-or thought-form,
218 THE ASTRAL BODY
which forms a kind of atmosphere through which every
thing is seen and by which everything is coloured, and
which so manifestly dominates and sways the many
B S 1 292. crowds amongst which he moves. It is no easy matter
to stand against a strong popular bias, owing to the
ceaseless beating upon us of the thought-forms and
currents of thought which fill the atmosphere: yet
the student of occultism must learn to do so.
A E P. He should, moreover, be able to recognise the various
types of crowd-leaders and to refuse to allow himself
to be dominated, persuaded or cajoled into accepting
ideas or following lines of action unless he does so quite
deliberately, and with all his own faculties alert.
The influence of psychological crowds and crowd-
leaders in the world to-day, as well probably as in
every age, is very great indeed, and the forces they
wield subtle and far-reaching, so that the student who
aims at self-mastery and who wishes to lead his own
emotional and intellectual life, must be continuously
on his guard against these insidious influences.
The present writer is of opinion that a study of
The Science of theEmotions and The CrOUJd in Peace atul
Wal' is an invaluable preliminary to the task of training
and developing the astral body till it becomes a useful
and obedient servant of the sovereign will of the ego.
One other line of study is also strongly urged upon
the student, viz., that of the sub-conscious mind,
to-day often called the "unconscious," For this
purpose, as an introduction to the subject, The LaUl
ofPsychicPhenomena by T. J. Hudson, is recommended.
In studying this book, the student should recollect
that it was written in I8g2. In the light of present
day knowledge it is not necessary to subscribe wholly
to Hudson's analysis, classification, or terminology.
Moreover, in the opinion of the present writer, Hudson
builds a great deal too much on his premises, straining
his theories far beyond breaking-point. Nevertheless,
the book is still of great value, first as encouraging a
healthy scientific scepticism towards accepting too
readily plausible and glib explanations of many psychic
THE MASTERY OF EMOTION 219
phenomena, and secondly, in bringing home with great
force the tremendous potentialities latent in the sub-
conscious part of man's nature, which may be utilised
by the careful and discreet student to considerable
effect in bringing his own astral nature under control
and, in general, purifying and building up his own
character. There are, of course, hosts of other and
more modem books which will also help towards this
end.
Briefly, Hudson states :-
(I) That the mentality of man is clearly divisible L P P 29
into two parts, each with its own separate powers and
functions. These he calls the objective and the sub-
jective minds.
(2) That the objective mind is that which takes
cognisance of the objective world, using as its medium
of observation the physical senses, and having as its
highest function the reason.
(3) That the subjective mind takes cognisance of
its environment by means independent of the physical
senses. It is the seat of the emotions and the store-
house of memory. It performs its highest functions
when the objective senses are in abeyance, e.g., in a
state of hypnotism or somnambulism. Many of the
other faculties attributed by Hudson to the subjective
mind are clearly those of the astral body, e.g., the
ability to travel to distant places, to read thoughts, etc.
Furthermore, whilst the objective mind is not L P P )('.
controllable by " suggestion," against reason, positive
knowledge, or the evidence of the senses, the subjective
mind is constantly amenable to the power of suggestion,
whether from other people, or from the objective mind
of its owne,..
With the help of modem knowledge regarding our
astral and mental bodies, and the nature and use of
thought- and-emotion-forms, the student will recognise
here many interesting and independent confirmations
of what he has learnt from Theosophical authorities,
and, as already said, he will be better able to realise
that virtually limitless powers latent in his own psycho-
220 THE ASTRAL BODY
1 LI8g-gI.
lLll1~
III.
logical make-up, which he may proceed to use along
lines laid down by occultists of repute: such as that
of meditation, for example. He will also, perhaps,
realise rather more vividly than before the way in
which kama, or desire, and manas, or mind, are
entangled, and how they may be disentangled, to the
great benefit and strengthening of both.
S c 318-319, It must ever be remembered that it is by thought
.IU
• that desire can be changed, and finally mastered.
As mind learns to assert control, desire becomes trans-
muted into will, the governance then not being by
external objects that attract or repel, but by the spirit
of the man, the ego, the inner ruler.
We shall now return to our more specific" Theoso-
phical" authorities, and proceed to consider certain
other factors in the development and training of the
astral body.
It is obvious that the student should aim at mastering
and eliminating certain minor defects, such as emotional
weaknesses or vices. In this task it is important to
recollect that such a vice as irritability, for example,
which has become a habit through repeated indulgence,
is stored up, not in the ego as an inherent quality, but
in the astral permanent atom (seepage 207). However
great the force that is there piled up, it is a scientific
certainty that perseverance will in due time lead to
victory. On the side of the ego, there is the force of
his own will, and behind that the infinite force of the
Logos Himself,because progress by means of evolution
is His will. A grasp of the idea of unity thus gives the
man an adequate motive for the undoubtedly hard,
and at times distasteful, work of character-building.
However great the struggle, the forces of infinity being
on his side, he is bound ultimately to overcome the
finite forces for evil which he has stored up in his past
lives.
A man who seeksto kill out desire, in order to balance
his karma perfectly and so obtain liberation for him-
self, may achieve his object. He cannot, however,
escape from the law of evolution, and sooner or
THE MASTERY OF EMOTION 221
later he will be swept forward again into the stream by
its resistless pressure, and so be forced into re-birth.
Killing out desire is not the path of the true occultist.
Personal loves are not to be killed out, but are to be R 40 •
expanded till they become universal: loves are to be 1 Y 102.
levelled up, not down. The failure to realise this, and
the tremendous difficulty of the task, when realised,
have led in some cases to the stiding of love instead of
its growth. But overflowing love, not lovelessness,
will save the world. The Mahltml is the Ocean of
Compassion: not an iceberg. To try to kill out love
is the way of the left-hand path.
It is. however, necessary to kill out completely the 1 L 1292-
lower and coarser desires; the remainder must be 293·
purified and transmuted into aspirations, and resolu-
tion. It is waste of force to desire or wish: the
occultist wills instead. Will is a higher aspect of
desire.
It has also been said that we should slay the "lunar 1 L 1 293.
form," t.e., the astral body. This does not mean that
all feelings and emotions should be destroyed. but
rather that the astral body should be completely
under control, that we should be able to slay the lunar
form at wiU. As the man develops, he makes his will
one with the will of the Logos, and the Logos wills
evolution. Needless to say, such an at-one-ment
ipso facto eliminates such desires as ambition, desire
for progress, and the like.
The VDiu of the Silence warns us that beneath each 1 L 1103-
flower in the astral world, however beautiful it may
be, lies coiled the serpent of desire. In the case of
afiection, for example, everything of a grasping nature
must be altogether transcended: but high, pure and
unse1Dsh affection can never be transcended, since it
is a characteristic of the Logos Himseli, and is a
necessary qualification for progress upon the Path
which leads to the Masters and to Initiation.
I L 11171•
..4 P 31.
OS D 46,.
L L 3-4.
1 L 11171.
(J 21-23.
C W 230.
TNP80-
8a.
CHAPTER XXVI
DEVELOPMENT OF ASTRAL POWERS
THE possession of psychic powers does not necessarily
involve high moral character, any more than does the
possession of physical strength, neither are psychic
powers in themselves a sign of great development in
any other direction, e.g., that of intellect.
While, therefore, it is not true that the great psychic
is necessarily a spiritual person, it is true, on the other
hand, that a great spiritual person is inevitably psychic.
Psychic powers can be developed by anyone who will
take the trouble, and a man may learn clairvoyance or
mesmerism just as he may learn the piano, if he is
willing to go through the necessary hard work.
Astral senses exist in all men, but are latent in most,
and generally need to be artificially forced if they are
to be used in the present stage of evolution. In a few
they become active without any artificial impulse; in
very many they can be artificially awakened and
developed. The condition, in all cases, of the activity
of the astral senses is the passivity of the physical, and
the more complete the physical passivity the greater
the possibility of astral activity.
Clairvoyance is often possessed by simple peoples.
This is sometimes called the lower psychism, and is by
no means the same thing as the faculty possessed by a
properly' trained and more advanced man, nor is it
arrived at in the same way.
The occasional appearance of psychism in an unde-
veloped person is a kind of massive sensation vaguely
belonging to the whole vehicle rather than an exact and
definite perception coming through specialised organs.
This was especially characteristic of the Atlantean
DEVELOPMENT OF ASTRAL POWERS 223
(Fourth) Root Race. It works not through the astral
Chakrams, but through the astral centres connected
with the physical senses. These are not distinctively T N P 80-
astral, although they are aggregations of astral matter ~zc Z5I.
in the astral body. They are of the nature of con-
necting bridges between the astral and physical planes,
and are not developed astral senses in the proper
sense of the tenn. II Second sight II belongs to this
type of sensitiveness, and is often symbolical, the
perceiver transmitting his knowledge in this curious
symbolical way. To stimulate the centres which are TN P lZ5.
bridges, instead of evolving the Chakrams, which are
the astral organs,isa complete blunder. This lower psy-
chism is also associated with the sympathetic nervous
system, whereas the higher psychism is associated with
thecerebro-spinal system. To revive control of the sym- s C 431.
pathetic system is a retrograde and not a forward step.
In course of time the lower psychism disappears, to
re-open at a later stage when it will be brought under
the control of the will.
Hysterical and highly nervous people may occasion- C 53·
ally become clairvoyant, the fact being a symptom
of their disease, and due to the weakening of the
physical vehicle to such a degree that it no longer
presents any obstacle to a measure of etheric or astral
vision. Delirium tremens is an extreme example of
this class of psychism, victims of the disease often being
able temporarily to perceive certain loathsome elemen-
tal and etheric entities.
For those who have not yet developed astral vision, M B 39.
it is desirable to appreciate intellectually the reality
of the astral world, and to realise that its phenomena
are open to competent observation just as are those of
the physical world.
There exist definite methods of Yoga by which the M B 47-48.
astral senses may be developed in a rational and
healthy way. But it is not only useless, it may be
dangerous, to attempt these until the preparatory
stage of purification has first been passed. Both the
physical and the astral body must first be purifled,
224 THE ASTRAL BODY
MR4°·
C 166.
by breaking the bonds of evil habits in eating, drinking,
giving way to hate-emotions of all kinds, etc.
Speaking generally, it is not desirable to force the
development of the astral body by artificial means,
for until spiritual strength is attained the intrusion of
astral sights, sounds, and other phenomena is apt to
be disturbing and even alarming.
Sooner or later, according to the karma of the past,
one who follows the .. ancient and royal" path will
find knowledge of astral phenomena gradually coming
to him: his keener vision will awaken, and new vistas
of a wider universe will be unfolded to him on every
side. It is an illustration of the saying: .. Seek ye
first the Kingdom of Heaven, and all these things
shall be added unto you."
..4 P 12'. The attainment of astral powers as an end in itself
~7~ 11 17a- inevitably leads to what is called in the East the
C 24: '2-": laukika method of development: the powers obtained
~6J.sIA4·'U.'I_ are only for the present personality and, there being
461: no safeguards, the student is extremely likely to misuse
i sIlil
tiJl.them. To this class belong the practices of Hatha
T N P 127. Yoga, prtnayama or breath-control, invocation of
elementals, and all systems which involve deadening
the physical senses in some way, actively by drugs
(e.g., bhang, haschish, etc.), by self-hypnotisation, or,
as among the dervishes, by whirling in a mad dance of
religious fervour until vertigo and insensibility super-
vene: or pflSSively by being mesmerised-so that the
astral senses may come to the surface. Other methods
are crystal-gazing (which leads to nothing but the
lowest type of clairvoyance), the repetition of invoca-
tions, or the use of charms or ceremonies.
A man who entrances himself by the repetition of
words or charms may probably return in his next life
as a medium or at any rate be mediumistic. Medium-
S G 0 S3S. ship should not be regarded as a psychic power at all :
for a medium, so far from exercising power, on the
contrary abdicates control over his own bodies in
favour of another entity. Mediumship is thus not a
power but a condition.
DEVELOPMENT OF ASTRAL POWERS 225
There are many stories of some mysterious ointment C 33-34-
or drug which, when applied to the eyes, enables a
man to see fairies, etc. Anointing of the eyes might
stimulate etheric sight but could not by any possibility
open astral vision, though certain ointments rubbed
over the whole body will greatly assist the astral body
to leave the physical in full consciousness-a fact, the
knowledgeof which seems to have survived to medieval
times, as can be seen from the evidence given at some
of the trials for witchcraft.
The IokoUara method consists of Raja Yoga or.d P 125-
spiritual progress, and this is unquestionably the best i2~.:rj4;72
-
method. Though slower, the powers gained by it 173.
belong to the permanent individuality and are never Cr6S- 167: 20.
, 0 S D ..64-
again lost, while the guiding of a Master ensures perfect 165.
safety so long as His orders are scrupulously obeyed. L 12-
1
4.
Another great advantage of being trained by a C 21.
Master is that whatever faculties the pupil may achieve
are definitely under his command and can be used
fully and constantly when needed: whereas in the
case of the untrained man such powers often manifest
themselves only very partially and spasmodically, and
appear to come and go, as it were, of their own sweet
will
The temporary method is like learning to ride by 1 L 11 173.
stupefying the horse: the permanent method is like
learning to ride properly, so that any horse can be
ridden. The permanent method means real evolution,
the other does not necessarily involve anything of the
sort, as the powers gained by it may perish with the
death of the body.
The wider sight of the astral plane is not an unmixed .d P 126.
blessing, as it reveals the sorrow and misery, the evil C 169-
1
70.
and greed of the world. The words of Schiller spring
to mind : II Why hast thou cast me thus into the town
of the ever-blind, to proclaim thine oracle with the
opened sense? Take back this sad clear-sightedness;
take from mine eyes this cruel light I Give me back my
blindness-the happy darkness of my senses; take
back thy dreadful gift I ..
226 THE ASTRAL BODY
1 L II 185- Clairvoyant power, if properly and sensibly used,
188. may be a blessing and a help: misused, it may be a
hindrance and a curse. The principal dangers attend-
ant upon it arise from pride, ignorance, and impurity.
It is obviously foolish for a clairvoyant to imagine
that he or she is the only one thus endowed, and the
one person specially selected. under angelic guidance
to found a new dispensation: and so on. Moreover,
there are always plenty of sportive and mischievous
astral entities ready and anxious to foster such delusions
and to fulfil any role that may be assigned to them.
It is useful for a clairvoyant to know something
of the history of the subject and to understand some-
thing of the conditions of the higher planes, as well,
if possible, as to possess some knowledge of scientific
subjects.
Further, a man of impure life or motive inevitably
attracts to himself the worst elements in the invisible
world. A man who is pure in thought and life, on the
other hand, is by that very fact guarded from the
in1luence of undesirable entities from other planes.
C 19-20. In many cases a man may have occasional flashes of
astral consciousness without any awakening of etheric
vision at all. This irregularity of development is one
of the principal causes of the extreme liability of error
in matters of clairvoyance in at any rate its earlier
stages.
1 L r 10..- In the normal course of things people awake to the
10'. realities of the astral plane very slowly, just as a
baby awakes to the realities of the physical plane.
Those who are deliberately and, as it were, prematurely
entering upon the Path, are developing such knowledge
abnormally, and are consequently more liable to err at
first.
Danger and injury might easily come were it not
that all pupils under proper training are assisted and
guided by competent teachers who are already accus-
tomed. to the astral plane. That is the reason why
all sorts of horrible sights, etc., are shown to the
neophyte, as tests, so that he may understand them and
DEVELOPMENT OF ASTRAL POWERS 227
become accustomed to them. Unless this were done,
he might receive a shock which might not only prevent
his doing useful work but might also be positively
dangerous to his physical body.
The first introduction to the astral world may come A P 14.
in various ways. Some people only once in their C z6.
whole lives become sensitive enough to experience the
presence of an astral entity or some astral phenomenon.
Others find themselves with increasing frequency seeing
and hearing things to which others are blind and deaf:
others again begin to recollect their sleep-experiences.
When a person is beginning to become sensitive to A W 8J-84.
astral influences, he will occasionally find himself ~8~ 0 Z04-
suddenly overpowered by inexplicable dread. This I'N P66-67.
arises partly from the natural hostility of the elemental
world against the human, on account of man's many
destructive agencies on the physical plane, which react
upon the astral, and partly to the many unfriendly
artificial elementals, bred by human minds.
Some people begin by becoming intennittently C 26.
conscious of the brilliant colours of the human aura:
others may see faces, landscapes, or coloured clouds
floating before their eyes in the dark before they sink
to rest. Perhaps the most common experience is to
begin to recollect with increasing clearness experiences
of the other planes acquired during sleep.
Sometimes a person once in his whole life will C 54.
perceive, for example, the apparition of a friend at the
point of death. This may be due to two causes, in
each the strong wish of the dying man being the
impelling force. That force may have enabled the
dying man to materialise himself for a moment, in
which case, of course, no clairvoyance is needed: more
probably it may have acted mesmerically upon the
percipient and momentarily dulled his physical and
stimulated his higher sensitiveness.
A man with developed astral vision is of course no M D 99.
longer limited by physical matter: he sees through aU
physical bodies, physically opaque substances being
to him as transparent as glass. At a concert, he sees
228 THE ASTRAL BODY
glorious symphonies of colours: at a lecture, he sees
the speaker's thoughts in colour and fono, and is
therefore in a position to understand him more fully
than one without astral vision.
M D 100. A little examination will reveal that many people
H S 1 345.
gain from a speaker more than the mere words convey:
many will find in their memory more than the speaker
uttered. Such experiences indicate that the astral
body is developing and becoming more sensitive,
responding to the thought-fonos created by the
speaker.
1 L 1 .~66. Some places afford greater facilities for occult work
TN P 73-74· than others: thus California has a very dry climate
with much electricity in the air, which is favourable
for the development of clairvoyance.
Some psychics require a temperature of 80° in order
to do their best work: others do not work well except
at a lower temperature.
M v 178-;9. A trained clairvoyant being able to see a man's
Me 3
8-39.
astral body, it follows that on the astral plane no man
42 •
can hide or disguise himself: what he truly is, that he
is seen to be by any unprejudiced observer. It is
necessary to say unprejudiced, because a man sees
another through the medium of his own vehicles,
which is somewhat like seeing a landscape through
coloured glass. Until he has learnt to allow for this
influence, a man is liable to consider as most prominent
in another man those characteristics to which he him-
self most readily responds. Practice is needed to free
oneself from the distortion produced by this personal
equation so as to be able to observe clearly and accu-
rately.
Most of the psychics who occasionally get glimpses of
the astral world, as well as most of the communicating
entities at spiritualistic seances, fail to report many of
the complexities of the astral plane which are described
in this book. The reason is that few people see things
as they really are on the astral plane until after very
long experience. Even those who do see fully are often
too dazed and confused to understand or to remember,
DEVELOPMENT OF ASTRAL POWERS
and hardly anyone can translate the recollection into
physical plane language. Many untrained psychics
never examine their visions scientifically: they simply
obtain an impression, which may be quite correct,
but may also be half false, or even wholly misleading.
Also, as we have seen, frequent tricks are played by
sportive denizens of the astral world, against which
the untrained person is usually defenceless.
In the case of an astral entity who constantly works
through a medium, his finer astral senses may even
become so coarsened as to become insensitive to the
higher grades of astral matter.
Only the trained visitor from the physical plane, who
is fully conscious on both planes, can depend upon
seeing both astral and physical planes clearly and
simultaneously.
True, trained, and absolutely reliable clairvoyance A P IU.
demands faculties belonging to a plane higher than the
astral. The faculty of accurate prevision also belongs
to that higher plane: yet flashes or reflections of it
frequently show themselves to purely astral sight,
more especially among simple-minded people who live
under suitable conditions-what is called second-sight
among the Highlanders of Scotland being a well-known
example.
There are astrally, as well as physically, blind M B 3tr40.
persons, so that many astral phenomena escape :oL.II03-
ordinary astral vision. At first, in fact, many mistakes 4
may be made in using astral vision, just as a child
makes mistakes when it first begins to use its physical
senses, though after a time it becomes possible to see
and hear as accurately on the astral as on the physical
plane.
Another method of developing clairvoyance, which C 161.
is advised by all the religions alike, and which if 0:D 469-
adopted carefully and reverently can do no harm to 41 .
any human being, is that of meditation, by means of
which a very pure type of clairvoyance may sometimes
be developed. A succinct account of the processes
involved in meditation is given in The Other Side of
230
C W 223.
11.1328-
32') : 348•
H S 1226-
2.•0.
THE ASTRAL BODY
Death, by Bishop C. W. Leadbeater, pages 4~476,
as wellof course as in many other books.
By means of meditation extreme sensitiveness can
be developed, and at the same time perfect balance,
sanity and health.
The student will readily recogmse that the practice
of determined meditation builds higher types of
matter into the bodies. Grand emotions may be felt,
which come from the buddhic level, i.e., from the plane
next above the higher mental, and are reflected in the
astral body. It is, however, necessary also to develop
the mental and causal bodies in order to give balance.
A man cannot leap from the astral consciousness to the
buddhic without developing the intervening vehicles.
With feeling alone we can never obtain perfect balance
or steadiness: grand emotions that have swayed us in
the right direction may very readily become a little
twisted and sway us along less desirable lines. Emo-
tions provide motive force, but directing power comes
from wisdom and steadiness.
There is a close connection between the astral and
the buddhic planes, the astral body being in someways
a reflection of the buddhic.
An example of the close relationship between the
astral and buddhic planes is found in the Christian
Mass. At the moment of Consecration of the Host a
force rays out which is strongest in the buddhic world,
though also powerful in the higher mental world: in
addition, its activity is marked in the first. second and
third astral sub-planes, though this may be a reflection
of the mental or an effect of sympathetic vibration.
The effect may be felt by people even far away from
the church, a great wave of spiritual peace and strength
passing over the whole countryside, though many
would never connect it with the Massbeing celebrated.
In addition to the above, another effect is produced
as a result of, and in proportion to, the intensity of
the conscious feeling of devotion of each individual
during the celebration. A ray, as of fire, darts from the
uplifted Host and sets the higher part of the astral
DEVELOPMENT OF ASTRAL POWERS 231
body glowing intensely. Through the astral body, by
reason of its closerelation with it, the buddhic vehicle
is also strongly affected. Thus both buddhic and
astral vehicles act and react on one another.
A similar effect occurs when the Benediction is H S 1 231.
given with the blessed Sacrament.
C 59: 61.
C 6a-a.
C88,~:
g3.
CHAPTER XXVII
CLAIRVOYANCE IN SPACE AND TIME
THERE are four methods by which it is possible to
observe events taking place at a distance.
I. By means of an astral current. This method is
somewhat analogous to the magnetisation of a bar of
steel, and consists of what may be called polarisation,
by an effort of the will, of a number of parallel lines of
astral atoms from the observer to the scene he wishes
to observe. All the atoms are held with their axes
rigidly parallel to one another, forming a kind of
temporary tube, along which the clairvoyant may look.
The line is liable to be disarranged or even destroyed by
any sufficiently strong astral current which happens
to cr09S its path: this, however, seldom happens.
The line is formed either by the transmission of
energy from particle to particle, or by the use of force
from a higher plane, which acts upon the whole line
simultaneously: the latter method implies far greater
development, involving the knowledge of, and power to
use, forces of a considerably higher level. A man who
could make a line in this way would not, for his own
use, need such a line at all, because he could see far
more easily and completely by means of a higher
faculty.
The current or tube may be formed even quite
unconsciously and unintentionally, and is often the
result of a strong thought or emotion projected from
one end or the other-either from the seer or from the
person who is seen. If two persons are united by
strong affection, it is probable that a fairly steady
stream of mutual thought is constantly flowingbetween
them, and some sudden need or dire extremity on the
part of one of them may endue this stream temporarily
CLAIRVOYANCE IN SPACE AND TIME 233
with the polarising power which is needful to create
the astral telescope.
The view obtained by this means is not unlike that
seenthrough a telescope. Human figures, for example,
would usually appear very small, but perfectly clear:
sometimes,but not usually, it is possible to hear as well
as to see by this method.
The method has distinct limitations, as by it the astral
telescope reveals the scene from one direction only, and
has a limited and particular fieldof view. In fact, astral
sight directed along such a tube is limited much as
physical sight would be under similar circumstances.
This type of clairvoyance may be greatly facilitated C 66: 86.
by using a physical object as a starting point-a
focus for the will power. A ball of crystal is the most
common and effective of such foci, as, owing to its
peculiar arrangement of elemental essence, it also
possesses within itself qualities which stimulate psychic
faculty. Other objects are also used for the same
purpose, such as a cup, a mirror, a pool of ink, a drop
of blood, a bowl of water, a pond, water in a glass bowl
or almost any polished surface, or, on the other hand,
a dead black one, produced by a handful of powdered
charcoal in a saucer.
There are some who can determine what they C 8j.
see by their will, that is to say they can point their
telescope as they wish : but the great majority form a
fortuitous tube and see whatever happens to present
itself at the end of it.
Some psychics are able to use the tube method only C 66-67.
when under the influence of mesmerism. There are
two varieties of such psychics: (1) those who are
able to make the tube for themselves: (2) those who
look through a tube made by the mesmeriser.
Occasionally, though rarely, magnification is also
possible by means of the tube, though in these case!'
it is probable that an altogether new power is beginning
to dawn.
2. By the projection of a thought-form. This method C 67-69.
consists of the projection of a mental image of oneself, 0 S D 166.
234 THE ASTRAL BODY
round which astral matter is also drawn, such connec-
tion with the image being retained as will render it
possible to receive impressions by means of it: the
form thus acts as a kind of outpost of the consciousness
of the seer. Such impressions would be transmitted
to the thinker by sympathetic vibration. In a perfect
case, the seer is a')le to see almost as well as he would
if he himself stood in the place of the thought-form.
In this method it is possible also to shift the point of
view, if desired. Clairaudience is perhaps less fre-
quently associated with this type of clairvoyance than
with the first type. The moment that the intentness
of the thought fails the whole vision is gone, and it
will be necessary to construct a fresh thought-form
before it can be resumed. This type of clairvoyance is
rarer than the first type because of the mental control
C 71. required and the finer nature of the forces employed.
It is tedious except for quite short distances.
C 69-71. 3. By travelling in the astral body, either in sleep
or trance. This process has already been described in
previous chapters.
C 78-79. 4. By travelling in tlt.e mental body. In this case,
the astral body is left behind with the physical, and,
if it is desired to show oneself on the astral plane. a
temporary astral body, or m~yAvirupa is formed, as
described on p. 255.
C 61-62. It is possible also to obtain information regarding
events at a distance by invoking or evoking an astral
entity, such as a nature-spirit, and inducing or com-
pelling him to undertake the investigation. This, of
course, is not clairvoyance, but magic.
C 7'l' 81. In order to find a person on the astral plane, it is
necessary to put oneself en rapport with him, a very
slight clue being usually sufficient,such as a photograph,
a letter written by him, an object which belonged to
him, etc. The operator then sounds out the man's
keynote when, if the man sought is on the astral plane,
an immediate response will be forthcoming.
1 l. '1 20.' This keynote of the man on the astral plane is a sort
CO~81. of average tone which emerges from all the different
CLAIRVOYANCE IN SPACE AND TIME
vibrations which are habitual to his astral body.
There is also a similar average tone for each man's
mental and other bodies, all the keynotes together
forming the man's chord--or mystic chord as it is
often called.
The trained seer attunes his own vehicles for the
moment exactly to the man's note, and then by an
effort of will sends forth its sound. Wherever in
the three worlds the man sought may be, an instant
response is evoked from him; this response is at once
visible to the seer, so that he is able to form a magnetic
line of connection with the man.
Another form of clairvoyance enables the seer to C 126.
perceiveevents that have happened in the past. There
are many degrees of this power, from the trained man
whocan consult the Akashic Records for himself at will,
down to the person who gets occasional glimpses only.
The ordinary psychometer needs an object physically
connected with the scene in the past that he wishes to
see, or, of course, he may use a crystal or other object
as his focus.
The Akashic Records represent the Divine memory,
which is briefly mentioned on p. 155. The records
seen on the astral plane, being but a reflection of a
reflection from a much higher plane. are exceedingly
imperfect, fragmentary in the extreme, and often
seriously distorted. They have been compared to the
reflections in the surface of water rufBed by wind.
On the mental plane the records are full and accurate
and can be read with exactitude: but this, of course,
demands faculties pertaining to the mental plane.
235
CHAPTER XXVIII
INVISIBLE HELPERS
THEstudent of the preceding pages will by now have
perceived that the instances of "intervention" in
human affairs by invisible agents, which occur from
time to time, and which are, of course,quite inexplicable
from the materialistic standpoint. may readily be
explained, rationally and simply, by one who under-
stands something of the astral plane and its possibilities.
1 11 II. In the East the existence of II invisible helpers"
LAD 38• has always been recognised; even in Europe we have
had the old Greek stories of the interference of gods in
human affairs, and the Roman legend that Castor and
Pollux led the legions of the infant republic in the
Battle of Lake Regillus. In mediaeval times there
were many stories of saints who appeared at critical
moments and turned the fortune of war in favour of
the Christian hosts-such as that of St. James having
led the Spanish troops-and of guardian angels who
sometimes saved a traveller from serious danger or
even death.
1 H 23. Help may be given to men by several of the classes
of inhabitants of the astral plane. It may come from
nature-spirits, from devas, from those who are physi-
cally dead, or from those who, whilst still alive physi-
cally, are able to function freely on the astral plane.
1 If 29-30. The cases in which help is given to men by nature-
LAD 41• spirits are few. Nature-spirits (see Chapter XX)
mostly shun the haunts of man, disliking his emana-
tions, his bustle and his unrest. Also, excepting some
of their higher orders, they are generally inconsequent
and thoughtless, more like happy children at play than
like grave and responsible entities. Asa rule they cannot
be relied upon for anything like steady co-operation in
INVISIBLE HELPERS 237
this class of work, though occasionally one of them will
become attached to a human being and do him many
a good turn.
The work of the Adept, or Master. lies chiefly upon 1 Hz...
the arupa levels of the mental plane, where He may
influence the true individualities of men, and not the
mere personality, which is all that can be reached in
the astral or physical world. It is seldom, therefore,
that He finds it necessary or desirable to work on a
plane so low as the astral.
The same consideration applies to devas, those of
this class of entity, who sometimes respond to man's
higher yearnings or appeals, working on the mental
plane rather than on the astral or physical, and more
frequently in the periods between incarnations than
during physical existence.
Help is sometimes given by those who have recently 1 H 30.
died physically and who remain still in close touch LAD 43·
with earthly affairs. The student will readily perceive,
however, that the amount of such help must in the
nature of things be exceedingly limited, because the
more unselfish and helpful a person is, the less likely
is he to be found after death lingering in full conscious-
ness on the lower levels of the astral plane, from which
the earth is most readily accessible.
Furthermore, in order that a dead person may be able 1 H 31.
to influence one still living physically, either the latter
must be unusually sensitive, or the would-be helper
must possess a certain amount of knowledge and skill.
These conditions are of course fulfilled only very rarely.
It follows, then, that at present the work of helping 1 H Z7. 31.
on the astral and lower mental planes is chiefly in the L.1 D 44·
hands of pupils of the Masters, and any others who are
sufficiently evolved to function consciously upon these
two planes.
Varied as is this class of work on the astral plane, 1 H 31.
it is all, of course, directed to the one great end of ~' Y 1 45 :
furthering evolution. Occasionally it is connected 1.
with the development of the lower kingdoms, elemental
as well as vegetable and animal, which it is possible
11169.
I H U-13:
13-14: 15:
l~lS: 47
-51.
I L I 442.
THE ASTRAL BODY
to accelerate under certain conditions. It is, in fact,
in some cases only through connection with or use by
man that the progress of these lower kingdoms takes
place. Thus, for example, an animal can individualise
only through certain classes of animals whichhave been
domesticated by man.
By far the largest and most important part of the
work is connected with humanity in some way or other,
chiefly with his spiritual development, though very
rarely even purely physical assistance may be given.
In the classic book on the subject, Invisible Helpers,
by Bishop C. W. Leadbeater, a number of typical
examples of physical intervention are given. Some-
times an invisible helper, with his wider vision, is able
to perceive a danger which is threatening some one,
and to impress the idea upon the person threatened,
or upon a friend who will go to his assistance. In
this way, shipwrecks have sometimes been prevented.
At other times the helper may materialise himself,
or be materialised by a more experienced helper,
sufficiently to lead some one out of danger, e.g., to
take a child out of a burning building, to save someone
from falling over a precipice, to bring home children
who have lost their way, and so on. One instance is
given where a helper, finding a boy who had fallen over
a cliff and cut an artery, was materialised in order that
he might tie a bandage and so stop the bleeding, which
otherwise would have proved fatal, another helper
meanwhile impressing the idea of danger upon the boy's
mother and leading her to the spot.
It may be asked how it is that an astral entity
becomes aware of a physical cry, or an accident.
The answer is that any cry which has in it a strong
feeling or emotion would produce an effect upon the
astral plane, and would convey exactly the same idea
there as on the physical plane. In the case of an
accident the rush of emotion caused by pain or fright
would flame out like a great light, and could not fail
to attract the attention of an astral entity if he were
anywhere near.
INVISIBLE HELPERS 239
In order to bring about the necessary materialisation
of an astral body, so that a. means of performing purely
physical acts may be obtained, a knowledge of the
method of doing this is clearly essential.
There are three well-defined varieties of materialisa- 1 H 54-55.
tion: (I) that which is tangible, though not visible A P u8.
to ordinary physical sight; at stances, this is the
commonest kind; it is used for moving small objects
and for the " direct voice." An order of matter is
used which can neither reflect nor obstruct light, but
which under certain conditions can be used to produce
sound. A variety of this class is one which is able to
affect some of the ultra-violet rays, thus enabling
" spirit-photographs" to be taken. (2) That which
is visible. but not tangible. (3) The perfect mate-
rialisation, which is both visible and tangible. Many
spiritualists are familiar with all these three types.
Such materialisations as we are here considering, I H 42-.13.
are brought about by an effort of will. This effort,
directed towards changing matter from its natural
state into another, is temporarily opposing the cosmic
will, as it were. The effort must be maintained the
whole time, for if the mind be taken off it for one
half-second, the matter :flies back to its original
condition like a flash of lightning.
At spiritualistic stances, a full materialisation is r H.".
usually brought about by utilising matter from the
etheric and the physical bodies of the medium, and also
from those of the sitters. In such cases, it is clear
that the very closest connection is thus set up between
the medium and the materialised body. The signifi-
cance of this we shall consider in a moment.
In the case of a trained helper, who finds it necessary r H 57.
to produce a temporary materialisation, quite another
method is employed. No pupil of a master would ever
be permitted to put such a strain on anyone else's body
as would occur were matter from that body to be used
for the materialisation: nor, indeed, would such a
plan be necessary. A far less dangerous method is to
condense from the circumambient ether, or even from
THE ASTRAL BODY
the physical air, such amount of matter as may be
required. This feat, though no doubt beyond the
power of the average entity manifesting at a seance,
presents no difficulty to a student of occult chemistry.
In a case of this kind, whilst we have an exact
reproduction of the physical body, it is created by a
mental effort, out of matter entirely foreign to that
body. Consequently, the phenomenon known as reper-
cussion could not possibly take place, as it could
happen where a fonn is materialised with matter
drawn from a medium's body.
I H 51\ -57. Repercussion occurs where an injury inflicted upon
a materialised form is reproduced, with faithful
accuracy, upon the corresponding part of the medium's
body. Or it may occur, as is very common at
spiritualistic seances, where chalk is rubbed, say, on
a materialised hand; after the materialised hand has
vanished, the chalk is found upon the hand of the
medium.
An injury to a form materialised by a helper from
the ether or air could no more affect the helper's
physical body by repercussion than a man could be
I Y 131-132. affected by an injury to a marble statue of himself.
But if on the astral plane one is unwise enough to
think that a danger which belongs to the physical,
e.,., a falling object, can injure one, an injury to the
physical body through repercussion is possible.
I H 53. The subject of repercussion is abstruse and difficult,
and as yet by no means fully understood. In order to
understand it perfectly, it would probably be necessary
to comprehend the laws of sympathetic vibration on
more planes than one.
I H 58. There is no doubt whatever as to the stupendous
power of will over matter of all planes, so that if only
the power be strong enough, practically aft.)' result
may be produced by its direct action, without any
knowledge or even thought on the part of the man
exercising the will as to how it is to do its work.
1 L I 327. There is no limit to the degree to which will may be
developed.
INVISIBLE HELPERS
This power holds good in the case of materialisation, 1 H 58-59.
although ordinarily it is an art which must be learnt
just like any other. An average man on the astral
plane would no more be able to materialise himself
without having previously learnt how to do it, than an
average man on this plane would be able to play the
violin without having previously learnt to do so.
There are, however, exceptional cases where intense 1 H 63.
sympathy and firm deliberation enable a person to
eftect a temporary materialisation even though he does
not consciously know how to do it.
It is worth noting that these rare cases of physical 1 H 46.
intervention by an astral helper are often made
possible by the existence of a karmic tie between the
helper and the one to be helped. In this way, old
services are acknowledged and a kindness rendered in
one life is repaid in a future life, even by such unusual
methods as those described.
Or, in great catastrophes, where many people are LAD f8.
killed, it is sometimes permitted for one or two persons
to be .. miraculously" saved, because it so happens that
it is not their .. karma .. to die just then, i.e., they owe
to the Divine law no debt that can be paid in that
particular fashion.
Very occasionally, physical assistance is given to
human beings even by a Master.
Bishop Leadbeater describes a case which happened 1 H 18-19.
to himself. Walking along a road, he suddenly heard
in his ear the voice of his Indian teacher, who at the
time was physically 7,000 miles away, cry .. Spring
back I .. He started violently back just as a heavy
metal chimney pot crashed upon the pavement less
than a yard in front of his face.
Another remarkable case is recorded where a lady, 1 H 20-21.
who found herself in serious physical peril in the middle
of a dangerous street fracas, 'Has suddenly whirled
out of the crowd and placed quite uninjured in an
adjoining and empty by-street. Her body must have
been lifted right over the intervening houses, and set
down in the next street, a veil, probably of etheric
I H75-77.
LAD..,:
49.
I H 86-87.
I L 11 25.
H 5 112j3.
OSD38•
I L 11 51.
THE ASTRAL BODY
matter, being thrown round her whilst in transit so
that she should not be visible as she passed through
the air.
From a perusal of the chapters on After-Death
Life, it will be evident that there is ample scopefor the
work of invisible helpers among people who have died.
Mostof these beingin a condition of complete ignorance
regarding life after death, and many, in western
countries at least, being also terrified at the prospect
of Of hell," and If eternal damnation," there is much
to be done in enlightening people as to their true
state and the nature of the astral world in which they
find themselves.
The main work done by the invisible helper is that
ofsoothing and comforting the newlydead, ofdelivering
them, where possible,from the terrible though unneces-
sary fear which but too often seizes them, and not only
causes them much suffering, but retards their progress
to higher spheres, and of enabling them, so far as may
be, to comprehend the future that lies before them.
It is stated that this work was in earlier periods
attended to exclusively by a high class of non-human
entities; but for some time past those human beings
who are able to function consciously upon the astral
plane have been privileged to render assistance in this
labour of love.
In cases where the rearrangement by the desire-
elemental of the astral body has taken place, an astral
helper may break up tha.t arrangement and restore the
astral body to its previous condition, so that the dead
man can perceive the whole of the astral plane instead
of only one sub-plane of it.
Others who have been longer on the astral plane
may also receive help from explanations and advice
as to their course through its different stages. Thus
they may be warned of the danger and delay caused by
attempting to communicate with the living through a
medium, and sometimes, though rarely, an entity
already drawn into a spiritualistic circle may be guided
into higher and healthier life. The memory of such
INVISIBLE HELPERS 243
teaching cannot, of course, be directly carried over to
the next incarnation, but there always remains the
real inner knowledge, and therefore the strong pre-
disposition to accept it immediately when heard again
in the new life.
Some of the newly-dead see themselves on the astral LAD ~o.
plane as they really are, and are therefore filled with
remorse. Here the helper is able to explain that the
past is past, that the only repentance worth while is
the resolve to do better in future, that each man must
take himself as he is and steadily work to improve
himself and lead a truer life in the future.
Others, again, are troubled by their desire to make 0 S D 128:
reparation for some injury they did whilst on earth, 220.
to ease their conscience by disclosing a discreditable
secret they have jealously guarded, to reveal the hiding
place of important papers or money, and so forth.
In some cases it is possible for the helper to intervene
in some way on the physical plane and so satisfy the
dead man; but in most cases the best he can do is to
explain that it is now too late to make reparation and
therefore useless to grieve over the trouble, and to
persuade the man to abandon his thoughts of earth
which hold him down in close touch with earth-life,
and to make the best of his new life.
An immense amount of work is also done for the 1 H 88-&g.
living by putting good thoughts into the minds of those
who are ready to receive them.
It would be perfectly easy-easy to a degree quite
Incredible to those who do not understand the subject
practically-for a helper to dominate the mind of an
average man and make him think just as the helper
pleased, without arousing any suspicion of outside
influencein the mind of the subject. Such a proceeding,
however, would be entirely inadmissible. All that may
be done is to throw the good thought into the person's
mind among the thousands that are constantly surging
through it, and hope that the person will take it up.
make it his own, and act upon it.
Very varied assistance can be given in this manner. 1 H 89.
LAD 47.
1 L I 195-
196.
THE ASTRAL BODY
Consolationis often given to those in sorrowor sickness;
reconciliations are attempted between those who have
been separated by conflict of opinions or interests;
earnest truth-seekers are guided towards the truth;
it is often possible to put the solution of some spiritual
or metaphysical problem into the mind of one who is
H S I 346- spending anxious thought upon it. Lecturers may be
lf99. helped by suggestions or illustrations either materialised
in subtler matter before the speaker or impressed
upon his brain.
1 L II 95-{16. A regular invisible helper soon acquires a number
of .. patients," whom he visits every night, just as a
doctor upon earth makes a regular round among his
patients. Each worker thus usually becomes the
centre of a small group, the leader of a band of helpers
for whom he is always able to find constant employ-
ment. Work can be found in the astral world for any
number of workers, and every one who wishes--man,
woman or child-may be one of them.
I H 8~. A pupil may often be employed as an agent in what
1 L I 195· practically amounts to the answering of prayer.
Although it is true that any earnest spiritual desire,
such as may be expressed in prayer, is a force which
automatically brings about certain results, it is also
a fact that such a spiritual effort offers an opportunity
of influence to the Powers of Good. A willing helper
may thus be made the channel through which energy
is poured forth. This is true of meditation to an
even greater extent.
In some cases such a helper is taken to be the saint,
etc., to whom the petitioner prayed, and there are
many stories to illustrate this.
I H 90-91• Pupils who are fitted for the work are also employed
~1f2\~. to suggest true and beautiful thoughts to authors,
poets, artists and musicians.
Sometimes, though more rarely, it is possible to
warn people of the danger to their moral development
of some course that they are pursuing, to dear away
evil influence from about some person or place, or to
counteract the machinations of black magicians.
INVISIBLE HELPERS 245
There is so much work for invisible helpers on the 1 L 1 37·
astral plane that it is clearly emphatically the duty of
the student to fit himself by every means in his power
to assist in its performance. The work of the invisible
helpers would not be done unless there were pupils at
the stage where it is the best work that they can do.
As soon as they pass beyond that stage and can do
higher work, the higher work will certainly be given
to them.
It should be borne in mind that when power and LAD •
..-..,.
training are given to a helper, they are given to him C 17
2
•
under restrictions. He must never use them selfishly,
never display them to gratify curiosity, never employ
them to pry into the business of others, never give what
at spiritualistic seances are called tests, i.e., he must
never do anything which can be proved as a phenome-
non on the physical plane. He might take a message
to a dead man, but not, unless under direct instructions
from his Master, bring back a reply from the dead
to the' living. Thus the band of invisible helpers is
neither a detective office nor an astral information
bureau, but is intended simply and quietly to do such
work as is given to it to do or as comes in its way.
As an occult student progresses, instead of assisting
individuals only, he learns to deal with classes, nations,
and races. As he acquires the requisite powers and
knowledge, he begins to wield the greater forces of the
lkAsha and the astral light, and is shown how to make
the utmost possible use of each favourable cyclic
influence. He is brought into relationship with the
great Nirrnanakayas, and becomesone of their almoners,
learning how to dispense the forces which are the fruit
of their sublime self-sacrifice.
There is no mystery as to the qualifications needed I H 93.
by one who aspires to be a helper: to some extent H S II 235·
these have already been incidentally described, but it
rna}:' be useful also to set them out fully and
categorica-lly.
(1) Single-mindedness, sometimes called one-pointed- 1 H 93-94.
ness; the would-be helper must make the work of LAD 51.
THE ASTRAL BODY
helping others his first and highest duty: the work
which the Master would have him do must be the one
great interest of his life.
Furthermore, intelligent discrimination is needed
not only between useful and useless work, but also
between the different kinds of useful work. Economy
1 [. 1 38-40: of effort is a prime law of occultism, and every student
y1l~' 180' should devote himself to the very highest work of
200-201. • which he is capable. It is also essential that the
M p .53· student should on the physical plane do the utmost
that lies in his power to further the same great ends of
helping his fellows.
1 H 94-9,5. (2) Self-Control.-This comprises complete control
L..4 D .51. of temper, so that nothing seen or heard can cause real
irritation, for the consequences of such irritation
would be far more serious on the astral than on the
physical plane. If a man with fully awakened faculty
on the astral plane were to feel anger against a person
on that plane, be would do him serious and perhaps
H 5 II 236. fatal injury. Any manifestation of irritability, excite-
ment or impatience in the astral world would at once
make a helper a fearsome object, so that those whom
he wished to help would fly from him in terror.
1 I II 89. A case is recorded where an invisible helper keyed
herself up to such a state of excitement that her astral
body greatly increased in size, vibrating violently
and flashing forth fiery colours. The newly-dead
person she was hoping to help was horrified to see the
huge, flaming, flashing sphere rushing at him, took it
for the theological devil in proprid persona, and fled
in terror, his terror being increased by the would-be
helper persistently following him.
1 H 95-96. In addition, control of nerve is essential, so that
LAD 51. none of the fantastic or terrible sights that may be
encountered may be able to shake the student's
dauntless courage. As previously stated, it is to make
sure of this control of nerve, and to fit him for the work
that has to be done, that candidates are always made,
now as in days of old, to pass what are called the tests
of earth. water, air and fire
INVISIBLE HELPERS 247
The student has to realise that in the astral body the
densest rock offers no impediment to his freedom of
movement, that he may leap with impunity from the
highest cliffs, and plunge with absolute confidence into
the heart of a raging volcano or the deepest abyss of
the fathomless ocean. These things have to be
sufficiently realised for the student to act upon them
instinctively and confidently.
Further. control of mind and desire are needed: of 1 H 96-97.
mind. because without the power of concentration it LAD 51.
would be impossible to do good work amid all the
distracting currents of the astral plane; of desire,
because in the astral world to desire is very often to
have, and, unless desire were well controlled, the
student might find himself faced with creations of his
own of which he should be heartily ashamed.
(3) Calmness.-This means the absence of worry 1 H 97-98.
and depression. Much of the work consisting of sooth- i/ll:iz
ing those who are disturbed and cheering those in .
sorrow. it is clear that a helper could not do such work
if his own aura were vibrating with continual fuss and
worry. or grey with the gloom of depression. Nothing
is more fatal to occult progress or usefulness than
worrying over trifles, The optimistic view of every-
thing is always nearest to the divine view, and therefore
to the truth, because only the good and beautiful can
be permanent. while evil by its very nature is tem-
porary; unruffled calm leads to a serenity which is
joyous. making depression impossible.
As stated previously, depression is exceedingly
contagious, and must be entirely eliminated by one who
aims at becoming an invisible helper. Such an one
would be characterised by his absolute serenity under
all possible difficulties, and by his radiant joy in
helping others.
(4) Knowledge.-The more knowledge a man has 1 H 98.
in any and every direction, the more useful he will be. tt B~I.
He should fit himself by careful study of every- c i25. 3·
thing that has been written about the astral plane
and astral work in occult literature, for he cannot
THE ASTRAL BODY
expect others, whose time is already fully occupied, to
expend some of it in explaining to him what he might
have learnt for himself in the physical world by taking
the trouble to read books.
C 125. There is perhaps no kind of knowledge of which a
use cannot be found in the work of the occultist.
1 H99. (5) Love.-This, the last and greatest of the quali-
L.if D 51. ftcations, is also the most misunderstood. Emphati-
cally it is not backboneless sentimentalism, overfiowing
with vague and gushing generalities, which fears to
stand fum for the right lest it should be stigmatised
by the ignorant as .. unbrotherly." What is wanted
is love strong enough to act without .talking about
it; the intense desire for service whicn is ever on the
watch for an opportunity to render it, even though it
prefers to do so anonymously; the feeling which
springs up in the heart of him who has realised the
great work of the Logos, and, having once seen it,
knows that for him there can be in the three worlds
no other course but to identify himself with it to the
utmost limit of his power-to become, in however
humble a way, and at however great a distance, a
tiny channel of that wondrous love of God which, like
the peace of God, passeth man's understanding.
1 L 11 99. It will be recollected that for two persons on the
C 12
5. astral plane to communicate with one another astrally,
it is necessary that they should have a language in
common; therefore the more languages an astral
plane helper knows, the more useful he is.
1 H 99-IOJ. The standard set for an Invisible Helper is not an
LAD 51-52. impossible one; on the contrary it is attainable by
every man, though it may take him time to reach it.
Every one knows of some case of sorrow or distress,
whether among the living or the dead does not matter.
On going to sleep a resolution should be made to do
what is possible, whilst asleep and in the astral body, to
help that person. Whether the memory of what has
been done penetrates into the waking consciousness or
not is of no consequence; it may be taken as a certainty
that something has been achieved, and some day,
INVISIBLE HELPERS 249
sooner or later, evidence will be forthcoming that
success has been attained.
With a person who is fully awakened to the astral 0 S D 35.
plane the last thought before going to sleep would
matter less,becausehe wouldhave the powerof turning
readily from one thought to another in the astral
world. In his case, the general trend of his thought
would be the important factor, for equally during day
and night his mind would be likely to move in its
accustomed fashion.
CHAPTER XXIX
CONCLUSION
ALTHOUGH there are at present relatively few who
possess direct, personal knowledge of the astral world,
its life and its phenomena, yet there are many reasons
for beLeving that this small group, of those who know
these things from their own experience, is rapidly
growing and is likely to be very largely increased in
the near future.
Psychic faculty, especially among children, is
becoming less and less rare: as it gradually becomes
accepted, and ceases to be regarded as unhealthy or
.. tabu," it is likely to increase both in extent and in
intensity. Thus, for example, books have recently
been published, and widely read, dealing with nature-
spirits, better known as fairies, and showing even
photographs of these dainty creatures and their work
in the economy of nature: whilst any open-minded
enquirer will experience little difficulty in finding
people, young and old, who frequently see fairies, at
work and at play, as well as many other entities and
phenomena of the astral world.
Again, the enormous vogue of spirituaUsm has
made the astral world and many of its phenomena
objectively real and thoroughly familiar to many
millions of persons in every part of the globe.
Physical science, with its ions and electrons, is on
the threshold of the astral world, while the researches
of Einstein and others are rapidly making acceptable
the conception of the fourth dimension, which for so
long has been familiar to students of the astral world.
In the realm of psychology, modem analytical
methods give promise of being able to reveal the true
nature of, at any rate, the lower fraction of man's
CONCLUSION
psyctuc mechanism, confirming incidentally some of the
statements and teachings put forward by ancient
Eastern books and by Theosophists and occultists of
to-day. Thus, for example, a well-known author of
books on psychology and psycho-analysis, recently
informed the present writer that in his view the" com-
plex" was identical with the "skandhlra" of the
Buddhist system, while another psychologist of world-
wide repute told a friend of the present writer that his
psychological---not psychic--researches had led him
irresistibly to the fact of re-incarnation.
These are some of the indications that the methods
of orthodox Western science are leading to results
identical with those which have for ages been common
knowledge in certain parts of the East, and which have,
during approximately the last half-century, been re-
discovered by a small group of individuals who,
guided by Eastern teachings, have developed within
themselves the faculties necessary for the direct
observation and investigation of the astral (as well as
higher) worlds.
It would be a platitude to remark that the acceptance
by the world in general of the existence of the astral
plane and its phenomena-which cannot be much
longer deferred-will inevitably and immeasurably
enlarge and deepen man's conception of himself and
his own destiny, as well as revolutionise his attitude
towards the outer world, including the other kingdoms
of nature, physically visible and invisible. Once a
man succeeds in establishing to his own satisfaction
the reality of the astral world, he is compelled to
re-orient himself, and to make for himself a new set
of values for the factors which affect his life and
determine his activities.
Sooner or later, but inevitably, the broad conception
that merely physical things play a very small part in
the life of the human soul and spirit, and that man is
essentially a spiritual being, unfolding his latent powers
with the help of the various vehicles, physical, astral,
and other, which from time to time he assumes-will
THE ASTRAL BODY
displace all other viewpoints and lead men to a
complete re-alignment of their lives.
A realisation of his own true nature, of the fact
that through life after life on earth, with interludes
in other and subtler worlds, he is steadily evolving
and becoming more and more spiritual, logically and
inevitably leadsman to seethat, if and whenhe chooses,
he may cease from dallying with life and with drifting
on the broad current of the evolutionary stream, and
may instead assume the helm of his own life-voyage.
From this point in the growth of his II awareness"
of things, and of his own inherent possibilities, he will
pass to the next stage, where he approaches the
If ancient and narrow" Path, upon which he will
find Those Who, outstripping Their fellows, have-
achieved the maximum possible in purely human
development. These are They Who, eagerly, yet with
limitless patience, wait for Their younger brothers to
come out of the nursery of ordinary worldly life into
Their higher life where, with Their guidance and
assisted by Their compassionand power, man may rise
to the stupendous heights of spirituality to which
They have attained, and become in his turn a saviour
and helper of mankind, thus speeding the mighty plan
of evolution towards its goal.
INDEX
A Bewitched Life, 89
Accident, death from, 136, 138
Accidents caused by thought, 55
Accident on astral plane, 149
Adaptability, colour of, 12
Adept on astral plane, 167
Adeptship and childhood, 210
Affection, colour of. 12
Agni, ISo
Airships, 159
Air-spirits, 179, 183
AkAsha, forces of, 245
AkAshic records, 235
Alchemists, 7, 149, 175
Alcohol
and nature-spirits, 181
and injury to web, 35
and man's bodies, 65, 66
Alcoholics on astral plane, 128.
129
Ambition,
colour of, 12
intensification of, 39
after death, 129
Amputation, 8
Amulets,6g
Anandamayakosha, 27
Angels, 184
guardian, 50, 13)
of the Cardinal Points, 186
Anger,
colour of, II
effect on web, 35
flash of, 19
thought-forms of. 58, 61
Anglican chants. 60
Animal
characteristics in man, 2 II
link with, 142, 2II
obsession of, 140
reincarnating as, 141
soul, the, 24
Animals,
association with men, 76
astral bodies of, 178
clairvoyance of, 61
feelings of, 25
individualisation of, 76, 2)8
Annamayakosha, 27
Anthropoid apes, 179
Apogee of moon, 146
Apparitions, 50, 51, 106, 227
Appearance of man after death,
106
Apple-green in aura, 12
Apports. 157, 182
Arhat, bodies of, 16
Arpeggios, form of, 60
Artificial elementals, 45,175,188
Artist on astral plane, 131
Arupadevas, 185
Aspiration, colour of, 12
Assimilation of experiences, 205
Astral
and buddhic planes, 230
centres, 22)
current, 232
currents, 84
death, 204
dreams, 99
entities,
artificial, 188
human, 166
non-human, 174
light, 153
Light, the. 51, 245
matter. grades of. 4
origin of word, 7
world, size of, 1)1
Astrology. rationale of, 9
Atlantis,
airships of, 159
and spiritualism, 189
black magicians of. 5)
language of, 18g
Atma, a principle in man, 29
Atma-buddhi-manas, 28, 29. 204
Atmosphere on astral plane, 150
Atomic
astral matter, 14
matter, )6
short-cut, 105
sub-plane of astral. 148
sub-planes, )6, 105
web. 93
Atoms, 5
line of, 2)2
male and female, 5
Atoms,
spirilbe in, 10)
254 INDEX
Atrophy of qualities. 209
Attitude of mind after death.
125
Aura. 7. 208
forming shell round, 102
of deva, 184
of metal, stone. etc.• 8
regularity in. 22
Author. reaching thought of, 54
Authors and mental images. 53
Automatism. physical. 91
Avarice.
colour in aura. II
effect on aura. 2 I
Average
length of astral life, 131
man after death. 121
man's astral body. 15
Awakening on astral plane. 89
BABY
body, obsession of, 140
physical body. 208
Bach, 59
Bars in astral body. II. 21
Base of spine chakram, 31. 38
Beer-houses. 66
Bell-ringing. 178
Benediction (Church service).
231
Between eyebrows chakram, 31
Bhagavan Das, 214
Bhang, 224
Bhiititman. 27
Black in aura, I I
Black magic and lower chakrams
31,39
and shade. 169
vampires and werewolves.
171
and Spiritualism, 191
Black magicians of Atlantis. 53
on astral plane, 168, 172
Blavatsky and spiritualism, 192,
202
Blindness, astral. 229
Bliss sheath, 27
Blood and vampires. 171
Blood, scent of. 66
Bloodhound, baying of. 61
Blue in aura, 12
Blue-green in aura. 12
Boils. 17
Book seen astrally, 151
Books. word of dead, 135
Bragdon, Claude. 161
Brain dreams, 97
Brain intelligence, 26
Break in consciousness, 93
Breath-control. 224
Bridge, astral body a. 23, 25. 26
Bridge, etheric, 93. 95
Brown-grey in aura. I I
Brownies, 179
Browning. Miss K.. 214
Brown-red in aura. II
Brutality of teacher, 210
Bubbles in koilon, 5
Buddha. aura of. 7
Buddhi
and thought-forms, 43
principle in man. 29
sheath of, 27
Buddhic plane, 230
vehicle. 103
Buddhists.
and skandhas, 207
Butchers' shops, 66
Butchery of animals, 179
CAFFEIN,67
Cage of thoughts. 47
California, 228
Calmness, 247
Capital punishment. 137
Captain Kettle, 64
Carnivorous diet, 65
Casting out the Self, 165
Castor and Pollux, 236
Catalepsy, 171
Catastrophes, 241
Cat's furring, 61
Causa body.
and lower vibrations, 72
effect of astral on, 14
entangled with astral. 205
gaps in. 14
luminosity, 14
of Master, 201
other bodies resemble. 16
power of magnification, 33
Cells, consciousness of, 97
Centre of Consciousness, 79
Centres. astral. 223
Cerebro-spinal system. 223
Ceremonial magic. 167
Chakrams, 31. 79
and fourth dimension. 163
and memory of astral life. 93
Chamber of horrors. 51
Change of particles in astral
body, 129
Charlemagne. 216
Charms, 224
Chatter, silly, 61
Chatur MahArijas, 186
Cheerfulness, 13
Chemical affinity. 25
Chicago. 227
Child. aura of. 17
INDEX 255
Children
and city life, 62
dead. 183
dying young, 139
mental body of, 209
on astral plane, 90
terror of, 74
Chinese, 63
Chladni's sound plate. 60
Chord, mystic plate, 235
Cities, life in, 17, 62, 67
Clairaudience 234
Clairvoyance,
danger of, 226
in space and time, 232
not unmixed blessing, 225
reliable, 228
untrained, 228
Cleanliness, 67
Climate
and astral plane, 150
and occult work, 228
Clinging to physical life, 126, 139
Closed curves, 56
Coarse astral body. 120
Coarse bodies, 64
Cocaine, 66
Coffee. 35, 67
Coils in astral body, 18
Coins. 70
Collective emotion, 217
Collision on astral plane. 149
Colour-language, 22, 184
Colourless man after death, 126
Colours,
meaning of, II
of thought and emotion, 43, 46
position of, 13
quality 0(,7
Communicating entities, 197
Communication on astral plane,
34, 154
Composition of astral body, 6
Concrete thoughts, 45
Consciousness, physical, in
dreams, 97
Consciousness, unbroken. 87
Continuity of consciousness, 87,
95, 104
Control of astral body. 78
Control of thought, 102
Controls, spiritualistic, 190
Conversion. religious, 74
Convulsions. 55
Conway, Sir Martin. 215
Corpse,
astral, 169. 206
physical, 126
Correspondence of sub-planes, 72
Cosmic planes, 105
Counterpart,
after death, 107
composition of. 7
during sleep, 83
quality, 64
of books, 148
of child, 208
of developed man, 85
of objects. 8
of objects, moving, 150
of physical world, 118
of rock, 151
of undeveloped man, 150
re-arrangement of, 109
seeing, 114
Cow, lowing of, 61
Cravings after death, 127
Cremation, 126, 171
Criminals, 147
Crimson in aura, 12
Critical state of matter, 122
Crowd-compeller, 216
Crowd-consciousness, 55, 216
Crowd-exponent. 217
Crowd in Peace and War, 215
Crowd-leaders, 218
Crowd, psychological, 216
Crowd psychology, 215
Crowd-representative, 217
Crowds, living amongst, 17
Crystal-gazing, 224
Crystal, nature of, 233
Cruelty, karma of. 21
Cunning, colour of, 12
Curiosity, colour of, 58
Currents, astral, 84, 150
Curses come home to roost, 49
Cycle of life and death, 117
DEATH. 107
appearance after, 108
astral, 204
usually painless, 107
Death-warnings, 52
Decaying food, 65
Deceit, colour of, 12
Delirium tremens, 36, 66, 223
Demons, 139
Densest astral matter, 147
Density of gas, 163
Depression,
barrier to progress, 74
causes of, 73
colour of, 12.21
must be eliminated, 247
Dervishes, 224
Desire and will, 24
Desire-elemental, 6, 10, 77, 107
dominance by, 73
final struggle with, 205
INDEX
Desire, killing out, 220
Destruction of thought-forms,
63
Devachan, 204
communicating with, 197
giving up, 172
Devarajas, 185
Devas, 184
link with, 27
number of, 60
work of, 237
Developed man, astral body of,
15
Devotion, colour of, 12
Devotional thought-form, 57
Dhritarashtra, 186
Dhruvam, 109
Diet, 65
Direct voice, 239
Dirt, 67
Discriminating sheath, 27
Discrimination, 246
Disintegration, 156, 164
of astral body, 109, 126, 136
of key, 156
Disraeli, 2I 6
Distance thoughts travel, 44,
50
Divine memory, 153, 235
Djinns, 179
Doctor after death, 135
Dog, barking, 61
Dog-faced man, 212
Dominating mind of another,
243
Doves, cooing of, 61
Dozing consciousness, 178
Dramatisation by ego, 97, 101
Dread, inexplicable, 227
Dream consciousness, 103
Dreams, 93
and astral work, 96
astral,99
brain, 97
changing, 96
confused, 97
controlling, 96
ego, 100
etheric brain, 97
how produced, 96
modification of, 95
symbols in, 102
vague, 93
vivid,94
warning. 101
Drink craving, 100
Drugs, 66, 224
Drunkard
after death, 127, 129, 147
and rebirth, 209
Drunkenness, dreams of, 100
Dvesha, 214
Dweller on threshold, 2I I
Dying young, 125
EARTH-BOUND persons, 142
Earth elemental essence, 157
Earthquakes, 55
Economy of effort, 246
Egg shape of aura, 13
Eidophone, 60
Eighth sphere, 171
Einstein, 256
Ego
affected by thoughts, 14
and desires, 29
and kundalini, 41
and personality, 28
asleep, 100
consciousness of, 101
direct action of, 91
dramatisation by, 97, 101
dreams, 100
hold on vehicles, 210
measure of time and space,
101
of medium, 198
prevision of, 101
symbols used by, 102
withdrawal of, II7, II8, 126,
136, 196, 204, 206
Electrical disturbances, 157
Electrons, 5
Elemental essence, 174
and heat, 157
and re-birth, 208
and talismans, 6g
appearance of, 144
earth, 157
evolution of, 108
in astral body, 6, 76
in thought forms, 44
responsiveness of, 45
kingdom. third 6
kingdoms, 174
self, 27
Elernentals, 188
artificial, 45
from astral body, 71
like a storage battery, 51
of air and water, 159
of alchemists, 175
of fire, 160
Elementary, 66, 143
Elizabeth, Queen, 123
Elves, 179
Emerald green in aura, 12
Emotion, 24
collective, 217
Emotion-elements, 214
INDEX 257
Emotions,
genesis of, 215
intensity of, 86
mastery of, 21]
Entanglement of kama and
manas, 142
Entities, astral, 166, 174, 188
Etheric
brain, 97
brain-dreams, 98
bridge, 9]
currents, 155
double
and karma, r86
and materialisations, 172
and re-birth, 209
principle in man, 29
pressure, 155, 156
shell after death, r39
Evocation, 18], 185, 234
Excitement,
dangers of, 74
on astral plane, 246
Explosion on astral plane, 149
Ezekiel, 186
FACULTIES,
astral, 79
latent, 80
Fairies, 179
Falling in love, 20
Fatigue,
nervous, 67
not in astral body, 82, 1I4
not in mental body, 82
Fauns, 179, 184
Fear,
colour of, 12
on astral plane, 89
Feet, emanations of, 67
Fidgetiness, 62
Fiery Power, ]8
Fifth
Root race, 80
roundv So
sub-plane, 134, 147
Film on astral body, 19
Fire
elementals, 160
handling, 160
production of, 160
First sub-plane, 147, 148
Five dimensions, 16]
Flash of anger, 19
Fleece of Jason, 254
Flesh food, 65, 66, 181
Floating thought-forms, 55
Flower-like forms, 57
Flowers in worship, 57
Flush in astral body, 19
Flute, 58
F note, 6]
Focus of consciousness, 79, 81,
1I0
Fohat, ]8
Food, 64, 65
Food, not for astral body, 10, 129
Food-sheath, 27
Force-centres, ]1
Forcing development, 224
Forests, influence of, 67
Four dimensions, 31, 59
Four-dimensional globe, 162
Fourth dimension, 161
Fourth Dimension, The, 161
Fourth
root race, 50, 170, 223
round.Bo
spirillse, 103
sub-plane, 134, 147
Freedom on astral plane, 130
Freewill, 29
Functions of astal body, 2]
Fussiness, 62
GAMBOGE in aura, 12
Gandharvas, 186
Genesis of emotions, 215
Genius, flashes of, 105
Geometrical thought-forms, 58
Geometry, 164
Ghosts, 51
Giggles, nervous, 62
Glamour
on astral plane, 151
of nature-spirits, 180
Glutton after death, 127
Gnomes, 179
Gnyl\nam, 214
Goblins, 179
Going to sleep, thought before,
85, 88, 96, 103, 248
Gold in aura, 12
Golden age, 177
Golden crowns, 148
Good and evil,
effect of, 7I
how stored, 72
"Good People," 179
Gorilla-like thought-form, 6]
Gravitation and astral matter,
145
Gravity, neutralising, 159
Great Tone, the, 6]
Green in aura, 12
Greenish-brown in aura, I I
Gregorian tone, 60
Grey
in aura, 12
livid, 12, 19
INDEX
Grey-green in aura, 12
Grief for the dead. 135. 196
Growth of objects, 164
Guardian angels. 50. 135
Guffaw thought-form. 61
Guide. spirit, 142. 190
Gums in incense. 6g
Gun-fire. 62
Guru. 203
Gyroscope. 68
HABITS,
how formed, 41
of astral body. 11
Hall
of Ignorance. 153
of Learning. 153
of Wisdom. 153
Handling fire. 160
Hands, emanations of. 61
Hand-writing. imitating. 158
Happy hunting-grounds. 148
Hardening web. 36
Harmonograph, 60
Haschish, 224
Hate-emotions. 214
Hatha Yoga. 224
Hatred. colour of, II
Haunted houses. 114. 118
Haunted places, 51
Health, physical. 61
Hearing. astral. 32
Heart chakram, 31
Heaven-world, 118, 204
Hell
apparent, log
a figment, 128
Helping by thought. 63
Hermit, 15
Higher manas, 29
Highlands, 51
HimAlayan Brotherhood. ISg
Hinton. C. H., 161
Historical events, 54
Hooked thought-forms, 56
Horizontal divisions. 116
Host. The, 230
Hostility of elementals, 221
House, building on astral plane,
115
Hudson, T. J., 218
Human arti1icials. ISg
Hungary, 110
Hypnotism, 48, 219
Hysteria, 14
and clairvoyance. 223
leHCHA-, 214
Idiots. 212
Illusion and astral plane, 151
Images in mental body, 45
Imaginary cities, etc., 141. 148
Impersonal thought, 43
Incense.6g
Incubi. 139
Indian jugglers, 181
Indigo in aura, 12
IndividuaIisation,
helped by man. 16, 238
mode of, 123, 12~
Individualised animals. 118
Indra, ISo
Inflammation, centres of, 11
Initiation,
qualifications for, 7
Injury to astral body, 149
Insanity. 36, 75. 212
Instigation to crime, 137
Intellect, colour of, 12
Interpenetration, 4, 149
Intervals between lives. 123
Investment of ego, 118•.208
Invisible helpers, 236
Invocation. 183. 224, 234
Iridescence. 16
Irritability in aura, II, 58
Irritable man, 21
Irritation,
causes of, 61
on astral plane, 246
JA-GRAT, 103
Jealousy,
colour of. II
thought-form of, 58
Jewels. 51, 6g
Jiva,21
Joy in aura, 12
Joy of life on astral plane. 94
Jumping on astral plane, ISO
KALI,53
KA.ma, 23. 28. 79
and lower manas, 119
cause of reincarnation. 207
reflection of AtmA.. 24
transcended, 81
KA.madevas, 185
KA.inaloka, 116
KAma-manas. 26, 21, 28. 29. 45.
78
freein~ from. 119
KAma-rupa, 24
Karma
and re-birth, 208
on astral plane, 133
Karmic deities, 186
Key, disintegration of. 156
Keynote of man. 234
INDEX 259
Killing out
desire. 220
love, 221
Knowledge, qualification of, 247
Kobolds. 179
KoHon. bubbles in. 5
Kriyi. 214
Kshetragna, 27
Kshiti,I80
Kumbhandas, 186
Kung, 63
LAKE Regillus, Battle of. 236
Language
on astral plane, 34, 134, 154.
248
on mental plane, 34
Latent faculties, 80
Laughter, thought-forms of. 61.
62
Laukika method. 224
Law of Psychi& Phenomena.
218
Layers of consciousness. 91
Leadbeater and Spiritualism,
192
Length of astral life. 124
average, 131
Levitation. 159
Leyden jar, thought-forms like,
45. 63
Life-term, appointed. 137. 138
Light. destructive effects of,
158
on astral plane, Iso
Lilac-blue in aura. 12
Limbus. II6
Lines in astral body, 12. 18,
n
Links between bodies, 104
Lipika,I86
Liver, 25
Logos, astral body of, 9
Lokottara method, 225
Loosening of principles, 106
Lords
of Karma, 209
of the dark face. 53
of Venus. 80
Lossof the soul, 144
Lost souls, 206
Lotus and solar ll}'lItem. 165
Love.
killing out, 22I
qualiJication of. 248
selfish. colour of. 12
unselfish. colour of. 12
Love-emotions, 214
Lower
chakrams, 31, 39
rnanas, 28. 29
and Rima. 119
part of aura, 13
psychism, 223
self. 26
quaternary, 23
Luminosity of astral matter.
ISO
Lunar form, slaying, 221
Lunatics. 212
MAGICAL ceremonies, 89. 177
Magnetised objects, 68
Magnification. 33, 233
Mahat.29
Malice, colour of, I I
Manas, 29
Manas and Kima, 78. 119
Manas. projection from, 28. 29
Manomayakosha, 27
Mantrams, 156
Manu, 27
Mass, Christian, 230
Mass effect of thoughts. 54
Masses for the dead, 136
Master,
causal body of, 201
communication from. 200
impersonation of, 201
meditation on. 57
work of, 237
Mastery of emotion. 213
Materialisation, 157
by drunkard, 128
of astal body, 106
of thought-form, So
varieties of. 239
Materialism, breaking down, 194
Materialists on astral plane, 148
Miyivirllpa, 234
Meals on astral plane, 115
Meditation
and psychic development. 229
and shell to protect, 76
on Master, 57
opens up channel, 244
thought-forms of, 58
Medium's ego, 199
Mediums
and trance, 92, 106
communication through, 134,
136
passing into astral body, 91
Mediumship, 224
not a power, 225
Memory
of astral life. 35, 37. 92, 93. 104
of past lives, 105
on astral plane. go, 151
MendeLssobIJ, 59
260 INDEX
Mental body,
affected by emotion, 20
astral body resembles, 16
consciousness, 103
of child, 209
used by pupils, etc., 170
Mental matter, entanglement of,
108
unit, 207
Mesmeric action of thought, So,
227
Mesmerism
akin to glamour, 180
to stimulate psychism, 224, 233
to waken man on astral plane,
90
Metals, transmutation of, 160
Metaphysical thought, 58
Military music, 60
Mineral monad, 108
Minerals, k4ma in, 25
Minification, 33
Minor vampires, 170, 199
Miser, 21
Mohammedan fanatic, 141
Moment of death, 107
Monad,41
powers of, 165
Monadic essence, 6, 174
Monads, animal, vegetable, etc.,
174
Money, 70
Monsters, 212
Moods, 73
Moon-men, 124
Moon's orbit, 146
Morality of thought, 63
Mountains, influence of, 67
Mourning, injurious, 135, 196
Movement
of astral particles, 8, 15,34, 113
of astral objects, 149
Murderer after death, 130, 137
Music
and nature-spirits, 181
forms, 58
Music
learning on astral plane, 132
on astral plane, 131
Musk,70
Mysteries, Ancient, 65
Mystic chord, 235
Mysticism and fourth dimension,
165
Myths, ancient, 129
NJ.OAS, 186
Napoleon, 216
Narcotics, 35
National thoughts, 54
Nature-spirits, 179
and coarse vibrations, 73
and dirt, 67
and music, 59
and spiritualism, 178, 199
as invisible helpers, 236
ensouling thought-forms.yj, 55
faculties of, 164
glamour of, 180
higher types, 187
irresponsible, 182
playing with children, 183
seeking sensation, 74
Navel chakrarn, 31, 32
Nervous diseases, 17,66
New Jerusalem, 148
Nimbus, 17
Nirrnanakayas, 57, 173,200,245
Nirvana, 173
Noises, 62, 67
Novelist after death, 135
OBEAH, 168, 170
Objective mind, 219
Obsession
and religious revivals, 74
and sleep, 91
and web, 35, 36
by desperate entity, 196
by drunkard, 128
by nature-spirit, 184
by sensualist, 128
of drunkards, 66
of mediums, 140
resisting, 128
through loss of control, 73
Obstacles on astral plane, 149
Ocean influences, 67
Odours, 127
Ointments, 225
One-pointedness, 245
Open curves, 56
Opium, 66, 67
Optimism, 247
Orange in aura, 12
Orchestra, music-form made by,
58
Ordinary man after death, 123
Organ, church, 58
Ossification of web, 36
Ouspensky, P. D., 161, 163
Outline
of astral body, 6, 7, 13
of thought-form, 46
Outpourings, 174
PAIN,
control of, 87
on astral plane, 87
produces repulsion, 214
INDEX 26I
Painters, 53
Paradise, 148
Paralysis of astral body, 128
Parents and children, 210
Parrot scream, 61
Particles, rapid movement of, 8,
15,34, 113
Passage through matter, 157
Passions and kama, 23
Passivity of physical body, 222
Pavana, 180
Pearls, a dream symbol, 102
Perigee of moon, 146
Peria, 179
Permanent atoms, 220
and lower thoughts, 14
and re-birth, 207
at end of astral life, 205
evil stored in, 72, 100
of Ninnanakllyas, 173
Peroulums, 60
Personality, the, 26, 29
Perspective and astral sight, 152
Philanthropist on astral plane,
132
Physical
consciousness, 97
elemental, 82
life, 64
Physician in sleep-life, 86
Piano music-forms, 58
Pictures, precipitation of, 159
Pig-faced man, 212
Pineal gland, 33
Pishlchas, 141
Pituitary body
and alcohol, 66
and astral consciousness, 105
and memory of astral life,
93
and top of head chakram, 33
link with astral body, 41
Pixies, 179
Planetary
influences, 9
spirits, 185
Planets,
astral,9
joined four-dimensionally, 165
Plants, feeling in, 25
Plasticity of vehicles, 210
Pleasure and genesis of emotions,
21 4
Pleasures of astral life, 132
Poet, thought-forms of, 59
Pole to pole currents, ISS
Politics and crowd-psychology,
217
Population of astral world, 131
Potential energy, ISS
Prana,
a force from Logos, 38
a principle of man, 23, 29
and kama, 24
and spleen chakram, 32
sheath of, 27
special type in web, 36
PrAnamayakosha, 27
Pranayama, 224
Prayer,
answers to, 57, 244
for the dead, 136
Precious stones, 6g
Precipitation, 159
Pressure of ~houghts, 7
Preta,II6
Pretaloka, 116
Prevision, 101
Pride.
colour of, 12
satanic, 39
Primrose yellow in aura, I2
Principles in man, 23, 29
fitting tightly, 91
loosening of, 106
Probationary pupil, 250
Problem-solving in sleep, 94
Production of fire, 162
Projection
of astral body, 106
of thought-form, So, 234
Protective thought, 49, 56
Protection against thoughts, 4
Protestantism, 117
Psychic
after death, 136
faculties, 12
developing, 222
on astral plane, 167
Psychism
and spirituality, 222
lower and higher, 223
spasmodic, 225
Psychology, modem, 257
Psychometer, 235
Public opinion, 217
Pupil
awaiting incarnation, 16g
awaking on astral plane,
88
on astral plane, 167, 168
Purgatory, 117. 127
Purification of bodies, 2I 3
Pyramids, how built, 159
QUALIFICATIONS
for initiation, 7
for the Path, 245
Quality of astral body, 120
Quaternary, 28, 29, 142
INDEX
Queen Elizabeth, 123
Queen Victoria, 123
RACE-FEELINGS, S4
Radiating tbought-vibrations,
43, S6
RAga, 214
Railway engine screech, 62
RAjasic foods, 6S
RAja Yoga, 22S
Yogi,6S
Rates of vibration in astral body.
14. 16
Ray of manas, 28, 29
Rays, 10, 176
Rearrangement of astral body,
108
breaking up, 111,242
Re-birth, 207
Rebounding thought-form, 49
Records of astral light, IS3
Red in aura, II
Reduplication, IS8
Refinement of bodies, 64
Regents of the Earth, 186
Regularity of aura, 22
Reincarnation
and ktma-manas, 26
and s,Pirltualism, 194
in animal, 2 II
Religious
excitement, 74
man, 21
" Remainers," 142
Remorse after death, 129, 243
Repentance, S2
Repercussion, 240
and sympathetic vibration, 160
injuries through, 171
on pbysical brain, 94
Replica of pbysical world, 113
Reproduction of tboughts, S6
Reservoir of spiritual force, S7
Responsibility of tbought, 63
Restfulness of astral life, 117
Reversal on astral plane, IS2
Review of life at death, 107
Revival, religious, 74
Rhytbmic foods, 6S
Ride-fire, 62
Rippling of astral body, 13
Rising through sub-planes, 109
Robinson Crusoe, S4
Rock seen astrally, IS2
Roman Catbolic Church, 117
Rose-eolour in aura, 12
Rudraksha berry, 69
Rilpadevas, 18S
Rush of feeling, 18
Russia, 170
SACHET powder, 70
St. ~ames, 236
St. osepb of Cupertino, IS9
St. artin, 142
St. Paul, 77, 16S
St. Teresa, IS9
Salamanders, 179
Satvic foods, 6S
Satyrs. 39, 179, 184
Scales, musical, 60
Scarlet in aura. 11
Scenery,
imaginary, 147, 148
on astral plane, 134
Scents, 69
Schiller. 22S
Science of the Emotions, 214
Scientific man, astral body of, 21
Scientific Romances, 161
Scientist on astral plane, 131, 148
Scribe Ani. 146
Sea-waves, 61
Second
Outpouring, 6
sight, 223
sub-plane. 134. 147, 148
Self-centred thoughts, 47
Self-control. 246
Self-bypnotism, 224
Selfish
religionist, 148
thoughts, S6
Selfishness, colour of. II
Sensation
and astral matter. 6
and kAma. 23, 24
and prana, 24
Sense centres, 2S
Senses, astral, 34
Sensualist after deatb, 127, 147
Sensuality, colour of, 11
Separateness, beresy of, 26
Serpent fire, 32. 38
Serpent of desire, 221
Seven Rays, The, 24
Seventh sub-plane
and sudden death, 136, 138
description of, 146
locality of, 14S
type of inhabitant, 133, 147
Sex and nature spirits, 182
Shade, 168
and re-birth, 211
and spiritualism, 198
Shadows on astral plane, ISO
Shakespeare's characters, S4
Shape of objects, disintegrated,
IS6
Sbeatbs of man, 27
Sheep, baaing of, 61
INDEX
Shell. I6g
and re-birth, 2II
and spiritualism, 198
during meditation. 76
during sleep. 102
of thought. 80
vitalised, 139
Sherlock Holmes, 54
Shield. atomic. 35
Shipwrecks. prevention of. 238
Shock. effect of. 35
Short-cut. atomic. 105
Shriddha, 136
Siddhis.33
Sight, astral. 151
Single-mindedness. 245
Sisyphus. 129
Sitting for development. 37
Six-dimensional world. 163
Sixth sub-plane, 133. 134. 145.
147
Size of astral body. 7
ofthough~fo~. 45. So
Skandhas, 197, 207
Slate writing, 159
Sleep,
cause of. 82
going to. 83
of astral body, 84
of average man, 85
of developed man, 85
of undeveloped man. 85
on astral plane. 151
surroundings in. 83
thought before going to. 85.
88, 96, 103. 248
work during, 88
Sleeping through astral life. 122
Sleep-life, 82
Sleep-walking, 91
Smell on astral plane, 128
Socrates. death of. 137
Solar plexus. 13
Soldiers killed in battle, 139
Some Occult Experiences, 162
Somnambulism, 91. 219
Song of birds. 61
Sons of God, 184
Sorcerers. 167
Specific gravity of astral matter.
14, 19
Spells, 156
Spine. 40. 41
Spiral course of kundalini, 38.
40
Spirit
-guide, 140, 190
-hands, 159
-Iights, 159. 182
-photographs, 239
Spiritualism. 192
achievements of. 193
and reincarnation, 194
dangers of, 193. 196. 202
history of, 189
objections to, 195
Spiritualistic phenomena. 181
Spirituality. colour of. 12
Spleen, 25
chakram.3I
Spooks, 198
Sport. 179
Stars in aura, 12
Stella, 164
SthiJla Sharira, 24
Stonehenge. how built. 159
Stone throwing, lIS, 173
Storms. cause of. 55
" Strong Body," 109
Study in Consciousness, 205
Study on astral plane, 132. 149
Sub-conscious mind, 219
Sub-divisions of astral plane. 145
Sub-lunar world. 146
Sub-planes. correspondence of.
72
Sub-types. 10
Subjective mind, 219
Succubee, 139
Sudden death. 136. 139. 170
rush of feeling, 18
Suffering on astral plane. 87
" Suffering Body." 109
Suggestion, 219
Suicide, 136, 137, 139, 170
not justifiable. 138
Suicides and spiritualism, 196
Summerland, 134. 146. 148
Super-physical forces. ISS
Surprise in aura. 13
Sushupti, 103
Svapna, 103
Symbols, used by ego, 102
Symmetry of aura. 13
Sympathetic
system, 223
vibration. 230
and astral phenomena. ISS
and projected thought-form.
234
and repercussion. 160,240
Sympathy, colour of. 12
TALISMANS, 68
linked,6g
Tamasic foods, 65
Tantalus, 129
Tea. 35, 67
Teacher. association with. 74
Telescope. astral. 233
INDEX
Temperature and occult work,
238
Tempters on astral plane, 139
Tempting" devils," 47
Tendencies in permanent atoms,
205
Terror,
after death, u6, 136
colour of, 19
Tertium Organum, 161, 163
Tesseract, 162
Test of earth, etc., 149, 226, 245
Test phenomena, 245
Theatre, counterpart of, 133
Theine, 67
Third sub-plane, 134, 146, 147
Thought-control, 102
-currents, 99
-forms, 43
-transference, 34
Throat chakrarn, 31
Thunderstorm, 61
Thyrsus,41
Tightness of principles, 91
Time
and space, for ego, 101
not fourth dimension, 164
on astral plane, 125
spent on sub-planes, 120
Tityus,129
Tobacco,
and nature-spirits, 181
and undesirable entities, 66
deadening effect, 36
detrimental effects, 65
effect on astral body, 128
effect on web, 35
Tongue, meditation in, 33
Top of head chakram, 31, 33
Touching astral objects, 150
Trail of thoughts, 48
Trance,
akin to sleep-life, 9I
and Turiya, 103
of mediums, 106
Transmutation of metals, 160
Travel, benefit of, 67
Travel
in astral body, 32, 86, 234
in mental body, 234
Triad,
higher, 142
immortal, 204
Trishna, 196, 197, 207
Trolls, 179
Tube, astral, 232
Tulsi plant, 6g
Turiya, 103
Two-dimensional world, 162
Tyburn, 51
Types
of essence, 176
of matter, 9
men, animals, etc., 10
ULTRA-RED
in aura, 12
on astral plane, 152
Ultra-violet
in aura, 12
on astral plane, 152
Unconsciousness after death, 107
Undines, 179
Unit, mental, 207
United thought, 58
Universal mind, 29
Upper part of aura, 13
VAGUE thoughts, 56
Vo1ishro1vana, 186
Valhalla, 148
Vampires, 52, 170
minor, 170, 199
Van Manen, J., 162
Varona, 180
Vegetables and kama, 25
Vegetarianism, 65
Venus, Lords of, 80
Versatility, colour of, 12
Vertical divisions, 176
Vertigo, 224
Vices, overcoming, 220
Victoria, Queen, 121
Vignanamayakosha, 27
Village gods, 183
Violet in aura, 12
Violin music forms, 58
Vinidhaka, 186
Virapaksha, 186
Vision, astral, 151
Visitors from other planets, 167
Vitalised shells, 139, 170, Ig8
Vitality, 12, 23, 29, 32, 36, 38, 67
sheath,27
Vivisection, 179
Vivisector on astral plane, 130
Voice of the Silence, 151,201,221
Voodoo, 168, 170
Vortices in astral body, 18
WAGNER, 59
Waking another on astral plane,
89
Waking consciousness, 103
Wandering demons, 51
War,
causes of, 55
killed in, 141
Warning dreams, 101
Watch seen astrally, 151
