{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__raymond___that_unseen_presence.pdf","mytitle":"That Unseen Presence","mylang":"de"}
WALTER W. RAYMOND
Author of
The Way of Spirit
Alexandria Lectures on Fourth-Dimensional
Consciousness
Los Angeles
First Church of Divine Science
424 South Broadway
Z5\)at l£tiseen "Presence
Copyright 1927 by
WALTER W. RAYMOND
Los Angeles
J. F\ ROWNY PRESS, LOS ANGELES
Dedicated to My Wife
MARION H. RAYMOND
Through Whose Loving Co-operation
This Book is Offered to Students
OF
ULTIMATE TRUTH
FOREWORD
It gives me great pleasure to introduce to you this
book, "That Unseen Presence," the expression of the
mind, heart and soul of my friend Walter W. Ray
mond.
I speak from the position of one who knows inti
mately the writer of this book, and who has had abun
dant opportunity to observe his inner and outer life,
when I say that to him there undoubtedly has come
that wondrous experience —that spiritual illumination
—that awakening of the soul —which has brought the
consciousness of that Something Within—that "Un
seen Presence"—the contact with which transforms
the life, enlivens the soul, and quickens the mind of
those blessed by that privilege.
In the pages of this book, its writer has sought to
express, so far as it is humanly possible to express such
things, the thoughts that have come to him while in
conscious contact with that "Unseen Presence." While
no one can know better than that writer that it is
impossible adequately to clothe in finite terms and for
mal words that which by its very nature is beyond such
forms of expression, yet he must feel (as do I) that
even in such inadequate forms the spirit of his thoughts
and experiences must shine through and become per
vi foreword
ceptible to those who read his words and meditate
upon his thoughts.
And, so, I commend to you those reports of that
experience which form the contents of this book. To
each of you they will bring a different message —a
message intended for you at this particular time, at
this particular place, at this particular stage of your
spiritual unfoldment. Tomorrow, you will be able to
receive and understand a newer and fuller message
from them. A year from now, you will discover still
deeper meanings in them. And so, on and on. It is
always thus with the Message spoken from the con
sciousness of, and the contact with "That Unseen
Presence."
May the recognition, realization and the manifesta
tion of the Infinite Presence, the Infinite Power, and
the Infinite Peace be yours, forever.
Yours in the Truth,
WILLIAM WALKER ATKINSON.
Los Angeles,
August 23, 1927.
CONTENTS
Foreword William Walker Atkinson
Chapter One
That Unseen Presence 9
Acknowledgment of the Presence 10
Acceptance of the Presence 10
Appreciation of the Presence 11
Complete Surrender to the Presence 12
Harmony Here and Now 13
Mastery Through Peace 14
Courage Through the Storm 15
"to, I Am With You Always" IS
The Secret of Letting God Lead 16
Chapter Two
Realization of the Inner Power 18
The Eternal Reality 18
The Highest Practice 19
Spirit Always Available 19
The Almightiness of God 20
Are You Seeking Truth or Things? 21
"Being" Versus Getting 22
Little-Child Attitude Necessary 23
"Beginner's Luck," and Why We Lose It 24
Chapter Three
The Creative Vision 26
Expect Your Dream to Come True 27
The Vision Splendid 28
Fulfilling Your Spiritual Purpose 29
The Potency of the Inner Urge 30
How to Direct Your Thought 31
The Inescapable Fulfillment 32
Chapter Four
Man's Intention an Active Force 34
The Determining Power Within 34
Spiritual Response 35
Universal Law of Tendency 36
Freedom in Truth 37
Realization of the Ideal Within 38
In Fellowship With God 39
Spiritual Attainment Through Acceptance 40
Thoughts and Feelings 42
The Rebuilding Power 42
Ideas Made Manifest 43
Changeless Perfection 43
Take Command 44
Seeking the Kingdom 45
The Nearness of God 45
vii
viii CONTENTS— Continued
Chapter Five
Freedom Through Law of Harmony 47
Your Good Is Inescapable 47
When God Works Man Works 48
To Lead, You Must Think 49
Nothing Impossible With God 49
The Magic of Joyous Expectation SO
Put Your Thoughts to Work 50
The Mind Way to Success 51
The Power of An Idea 51
Pour Joy in Your Thinking 52
The Secret of Joyous Freedom 53
The Right Place Is for You 54
Prosperity Your Divine Right 54
Chapter Six
Clearing the Mental Vision 56
Manifestation Through Expectation 56
Your Good Available in the Ever-Present Now 58
Man, the Distributor of Divine Opulence 58
Acquiring the Wealth Consciousness 59
Wealth from Within 60
The High Calling 61
Constructive Forgetting 63
Greater Things Ahead 64
Ventures of Faith 65
Chapter Seven
The Healing Power of Prayer 66
Right Thinking for Health 67
The Action of Divine Principle 67
Go Forth and Heal 68
Health Is Divinely Natural 69
Treatment Is Spontaneous Expression 70
Becoming Aware of God 71
What Is Divine Science? 72
CHAPTER I.
THAT UNSEEN PRESENCE
There comes a moment in the lives of each of us
when we are conscious of a presence unseen that seems
to be a part of our very being and yet not ourselves
but something in which we participate in a more won
drous reality, and for that moment all our limitations
and material conditions, our physical and mental lone
liness, fade away.
In this Unseen Presence we live and move and have
our being; therefore, we have not only a life of our
own but we have a part in the life of the All, and it
is this unitive life and consciousness that make for
complete peace, happiness and life. Someone has said
"there is but one wisdom to understand the knowledge
by which all things are steered through the All," and
as in the wholeness, completeness and unity of the All
there is only perfection, a glorious beauty and gran
deur, the understanding reveals the glory of the All in
the experience of the individual.
Our life exists not only in this material, physical,
visible world, in which we are conscious of presence
only by its appearance. Our life moves at once in
both the natural and spiritual worlds. Rudolph
iz
10 That Unseen Presence
Eucken writes, "Man is the meeting point of various
stages of Reality."
ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF THE PRESENCE
Most of us are conscious only of our existence and
not of our substance. We know we are ourselves be
cause we know we are not the other person. This
gives us a consciousness of our existence. We identify
ourselves as individuals in the world of the natural by
stating what "I am," whereas we are what we are
plus what we are not; for in the spiritual world, that
larger field of our life, we have a part in the existence
of that which we are not.
In the realization of this Unseen Presence we enter
into a conscious participation in the life of All. We
realize the truth of Plato's statement, "never less alone
than when alone," for all men and all stages of Real
ity are in our presence. In this realization we know
what Jesus meant when he said, "In that day you
shall know that I am in my Father and you in me
and I in you." John 14:20.
ACCEPTANCE OF THE PRESENCE
There is no going forth nor coming to but an inner
affinity which makes all things one, and that person
who has this realization lives in the "world of the
wondrous" and all abide with him.
The first step toward this realization is the knowl
edge of the existence of this unseen presence. We
know that we are unable to completely express our
That Unseen Presence 11
selves through our corporeal manifestation. That no
matter how we appear to the seeing world there is
always some part of ourselves unmanifested. There
fore, to the seeing world there is always the seen and
the unseen presence of each of us. We might say we
live in two worlds, which in the higher realization we
know as one world seen differently.
In divine metaphysics . we know man to be not ma
terial but spiritual. Not that we deny the corporeal
body but we acknowledge that it exists in an incor
poreal body. We are so accustomed to think of our
spiritual or greater self as existing in our corporeal
body. In our consciousness the manifested world is
the larger, whereas the unseen, or our incorporeal
body, is the greater, and the visible or corporeal body
exists within it. "For we live and move and have our
being in Him."
APPRECIATION OF THE PRESENCE
This unseen presence, this spiritual world, has been
known by all true masters of wisdom. Kant makes
the following statement, "I confess that I am very
much inclined to assert the existence of immaterial
natures in the world, and to put my soul itself into
that class of beings. These immaterial (unseen)
beings are immediately united with each other, they
might form, perhaps, a great whole which might be
called the immaterial world. Every man is a being
of two worlds: of the incorporeal world and of the
material world . . . and it will be proved, I don't
12 That Unseen Presence
know where or when, that the human soul also in this
life forms an indissoluble communion with all im
material natures of the spirit-world, that alternately
it acts upon and receives impressions from that world."
We are beginning to know that man is a four-
dimensional being conditioned in a three-dimensional
world; that the real man lives in a spiritual world
that interpenetrates the material world in which he
now enjoys a perfect harmonious state of being with
all existing beings.
COMPLETE SURRENDER TO THE
PRESENCE
The conscious knowledge of this unseen presence
and perfect world is gained by first an acknowledg
ment of its existence. "In all thy ways acknowledge
Him." Then by an unqualified acceptance through a
complete surrender of human concepts and ideas of
reality to the Christ principle, which is ever manifest
ing itself as order and harmony. This establishes for
us a new mode of receptivity, then by enlarging our
capacity of appreciation we expand our consciousness
to knowledge of this unseen presence that is "nearer
than hands and feet, closer than breathing."
In this unseen presence all consciousness of separa
tion ceases and we have now all that we are capable
of enjoying. You are now conscious of the actuality
of your being, all things are with you now and your
joy is full.*
•For further study read my Alexandria Lectures on
Fourth Dimensional Consciousness.
That Unseen Presence 13
HARMONY HERE AND NOW
Happiness is that state of being which all mankind
is seeking. Life harmonious is the experience every
man desires to realize.
He dreams of a life filled with joy and bliss, and
executes his every plan to that end. It is safe to say
that everything a man does is to gain some degree of
happiness; much that he thinks, says and does fails to
bring that much desired result—happiness —due to the
means he employs to accomplish the end in view. This
is because of his ignorance of the law of harmony!
"All things work together for good."
This failure on the part of man to realize a life
harmonious has caused the great majority to think and
to believe that such a condition of being is only attain
able in that far-away place known as the Christian
heaven.
With all our faith and hope in a future state of hap
piness on the Beautiful Isle of Somewhere there is
within you and me a ceaseless desire for life harmonious
here and now, urging and ever urging us on and on to
make the hoped-for happiness a present reality.
We are today adrift in a storm of doubt and fear.
Our barque of life is being tossed about by the winds
of avarice, greed and public opinion while we are trying
to make the port of happiness without the compass of
divine consciousness.
14 That Unseen Presence
MASTERY THROUGH PEACE
The key secret to a life harmonious is revealed to
man in the story of the Christ quelling the storm on
the Sea of Galilee with the words, "Peace, be still."
The sea is the symbol of restless humanity, whose
thought waves are never still, and are easily lashed
into furious storms by the elements of the material
world, the consciousness of the race since the beginning
of time, and the negative criticism of so-called friendly
or unfriendly forces.
Overwhelmed by the turbulence of ignorant thought
and action, humanity seeks to wreck the barque of
reformation, crucifies the saviors of the age and fastens
upon itself darkness, despair and misery. The Master
and his faithful students embarked upon this sea and
were sailing against the waves of popular opinion. Tak
ing the opportunity to rest from his labors, the Master
left his disciples to keep watch at the portal of thought.
While the storm of public sentiment waxed stronger
and ever more intense, threatening destruction to all
who faced its fury, fear for their safety and the life of
their Master tightened its hold upon the minds of the
disciples, filling them with uncertainty, doubt and
confusion. In this state of consciousness they called
upon the Master to guide them to safety. With that
great consciousness of unquestioned power he com
manded, "Peace, be still," and calm and peace were
manifest. The Christ spoke to that condition of mind
in himself that was responding to the storm of human
That Unseen Presence IS
thought and action, and thus made of himself the
Rock-of-Ages principle to which humanity has endeav
ored to cling for the last two thousand years.
COURAGE THROUGH THE STORM
You and I, seeking for life harmonious, are tossed
about by the storms of thought and action. We are
constantly battling with the elements which constitute
our material existence, hoping to make the port of hap
piness and be at peace, ever forgetful that happiness
and harmony are conditions of consciousness realized
within, known and enjoyed without in just that pro
portion that they exist within—not to be found, not to
be made nor realized in the world, until we can enjoy
the peace that is never disturbed.
This deeper consciousness of peace, poise and power
divine precludes all recognition of mental or physical
storms in our lives, removes doubt, fear and uncertainty
from our minds; fills our hearts with joy, and the har
mony of our being is never broken. "Great peace have
they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend
them."
"LO, I AM WITH YOU ALWAYS"
The storms of life destroy the harmony of our being
only as they stir up within us slumbering false mental
concepts, beliefs and ideas as to their power, meaning
and import ; otherwise we pass through them unharmed
and unafraid. When thou passeth through the waters,
16 That Unseen Presence
I will be with thee, and through the rivers, they shall
not overflow thee, when thou walkest through the fire
thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flames
kindle upon thee.
It is not for you and me to destroy nor change the
nature of things, but to have that consciousness that
passeth through unmoved and unharmed. Many of us
think that adverse conditions must be removed, and
if they cannot be removed then they must be changed
before we can enjoy a life of harmony. We are
constantly treating to change, to reform things and
conditions that they may be more harmonious to
us. It is not things, conditions, nor people that must
be changed that we may have peace and joy in our
lives, but our concepts, ideas and beliefs as to the truth
of all these.
THE SECRET OF LETTING GOD LEAD
We must work to realize that mind that was in
Christ Jesus, to have that consciousness that passes
through, to know those depths of being that are not
stirred by surface storms of human thought and action.
I recall an instance of a lady coming to me in great
distress. For years she had endured the cruelty of her
husband for the sake of her children until her spirit
was broken and her nerves shattered. Life seemed to
hold very little for her, and her tendency was to let
go even of that. But we talked about divine love and
the adjusting power of divine mind; the eternal law
That Unseen Presence 17
and order of God's finished kingdom in which she
lived and moved and had her being. She learned the
real meaning of "be still and know that I am God."
She learned the inner secret of leaving it with divine
law. Daily she grew in the realization that God alone
governs woman, and she is eternally free, joyous and
happy. That man is activated by divine ideas express
ing through him as love, protection and helpfulness.
After a few weeks it was my joy to hear her say:
"I am so grateful —my husband is absolutely changed,
and harmony is the law of our home."
To remove our thought from our fears may not be
humanly possible. The better way is to turn our
minds completely and steadfastly to God—to Good —
and let the peace thereof govern. Thus life becomes
attuned to the harmony of the Infinite and the in-
harmonies of the finite fade away.
CHAPTER II.
REALIZATION OF THE INNER POWER
A new dawn is breaking. Mankind is waking to
the realization that there exists around, above and
about man a power that will beatify his life ; Emerson
glimpsed this truth and wrote: "This deep power in
which we exist, and whose beatitude is all accessible
to us, is not only self-sufficing and perfect in every
hour, but the act of seeing and the thing seen, the
seer and the spectacle, the subject and the object are
one."
Before man can enjoy the completeness of his life he
musr know this eternal unity and he must have the
individualized consciousness of the at-one-ment which
is All in All—this deep power.
THE ETERNAL REALITY
The need of the world today is for man to acknowl
edge Him the only true God, in all his ways and be at
ease. The great seers of the world all have glimpsed
the truth that man can and must eventually become
conscious in his individual life of the order and har
mony of the universe. That what is true of God is
always true of man and his condition of being.
18
That Unseen Presence 19
"How can I make my life more complete and enjoy
the highest, the truest and the best?" is the universal
question. The answer given by Divine Science is that
your life is now complete and perfect in that finished
kingdom in which you live, move and have your being,
but each individual must know this Omnipresence as
the "strength of his life."
THE HIGHEST PRACTICE
You and I know that all of us is not contained, as
Whitman says, "between our hat and our boots." That
the altogether essential real "I" bears the likeness of
and abides in this "deep power" and has infinite capac
ity, ability and resources to express individually this
ever-present beatitude of God which is ever available
to be utilized by you and me. To be utilized by us
not by application but by practice : the highest practice
of the presence of God. In this practice of our "high
calling in God" we are "strengthened with might by
the Spirit in the inner man," which expresses itself in
our bodies and our affairs, making our lives more beau
tiful, complete and enjoyable —an individual expression
of the highest, the truest and the best.
SPIRIT ALWAYS AVAILABLE
We are so concerned with the things and conditions
of the world and of ourselves that we fail to realize
the beatitude of this infinite power that is all accessible
and instantly available to man. This concern about
20 That Unseen Presence
the things of life keeps us from completely knowing
life-in-itself, the world-in-itself and man-in-himself.
We mistake and accept what we see, hear, sense, taste
and smell to be the Real, whereas, in the words of
Kant, "we know merely the form of our knowledge of
the thing, and not the Thing-in-itself." Someone has
said, "Each of us is in reality an abiding physical entity
far more extensive than he knows, an individuality
which can never express itself completely through any
corporeal manifestation." This explains the Bible
statement, "Greater is he (that deep power) that is in
you than he that is in the world." If this "I" which
we feel and are only conscious of in ourselves is "that
I Am" which is one with and in the likeness of God,
it must abide in this "deep power" and is self-sufficing
and perfect in every moment of our lives.
THE ALMIGHTINESS OF GOD
As this truth is understood we realize more and
more that the order and harmony of our individual
lives is not in the becoming, but is already a state of
being, and we are relieved of the necessity of making
our lives more complete, but impressed with the neces
sity of knowing the wholeness and completeness of
the life of God in which we live and move and have
our being.
It is our knowledge of the beatitude of this deep
power that reveals itself in the things and conditions
of our lives and gives us a sense of joy, peace and
That Unseen Presence 21
happiness. The Master teacher said, "My kingdom
is not of this world," referring to that kingdom of
Heaven, where man enjoys now the "peace that passeth
all understanding." As we increase in knowledge and
understanding we renew our minds and our lives are
transformed from sickness to health, from darkness to
light, from sadness to joy and peace, revealing unto us
the glory of God. Seek ye first the kingdom of God
and its righteousness and all these things, peace, joy
and happiness, shall be added unto you."
ARE YOU SEEKING TRUTH OR THINGS?
Truth seekers at the present time as never before
in the history of man are attending lectures, classes,
reading volumes of books trying to acquire knowl
edge of Mind, Truth, God, for the purpose of
remaking their lives, that is their bodies, and changing
their conditions. In contacting these groups one be
comes impressed with the state of mental confusion
which in itself accounts for the lack of success in mak
ing what has been termed demonstration. These peo
ple are all possessed with the idea of getting knowledge.
Each one says, "I want to know, I must know more
about this, that, and the other thing." Some say, "Have
you heard this teacher or have you read that book? It
is the deepest teaching and the only teaching," and the
distressed seeker acquires knowledge of this, that, and
the other philosophy or teaching.
It is a matter for conjecture and one of general
interest, why with all this accumulated knowledge
22 That Unseen Presence
one should fall short in realizing that for which he is
seeking, i. e., health, happiness and prosperity. I am
amazed at the great fund of knowledge which has
been acquired by those who demonstrate the least.
"BEING" VERSUS GETTING
I recall the experience of Mrs. A. She told me
how she used to observe her neighbor, Mrs. B., who
possessed an abundance of the luxuries of life and who
seemed devoid of care or anxiety. On becoming ac
quainted, Mrs. B. told Mrs. A. that her wealth
was acquired through her knowledge of Truth. Now
Mrs. A. had to work and earn enough to provide food
and clothing for herself and her little boy, and often
they were in great need, so she decided to learn about
this Truth. She visited a teacher who outlined a
course of reading for her and advised her regarding
the lectures she should attend. Within a year things
began to happen for Mrs. A. She had established her
self and her boy in abundance and enjoyed the com
forts for which she had longed before she knew of
Truth. She had many conversations with Mrs. B.,
and was greatly impressed with the latter's knowledge
regarding astrology, reincarnation, the masters of the
far east and other teachings deep and mysterious. But
one day Mrs. B. came to Mrs. A. and unburdened
her heart to her. She told her she could not meet her
obligations, that she was ill in mind and body, and
that life meant nothing to her. These women had
That Unseen Presence 23
changed places. It was a great surprise to Mrs. A.,
and she said to her friend, "I cannot understand how
you have come to this state when you know so much
about Truth." Mrs. B. replied, "I cannot understand
it myself. I guess it is my Karma."
LITTLE CHILD ATTITUDE NECESSARY
What do you think my friendly reader? Doubt
less you are familiar with many cases similar to this.
There are those who have impressed you with their
wide range of knowledge, and you wonder why their
lives do not measure up to their knowledge.
Now, what is the reason? I am sure we cannot
acquire too much knowledge. I feel that we should
know all things. I know it was not this woman's
breadth of knowledge, neither was it her karma that
brought reverses into her life. Rather, I am certain
that it was her confusion of thought. Herbert Spen
cer has written, "When a man's knowledge is not in
order, the more of it he has the greater will be his
confusion of thought." Unless we can become as little
children with our knowledge, we shall not enter the
kingdom of heaven. Solomon said, "Get wisdom;
and with all thy getting get understanding." Under
standing is the order of our knowledge of Truth, in
finite intelligence.
24 That Unseen Presence
"BEGINNER'S LUCK" AND WHY WE
LOSE IT
It is this confusion of thought that disorganizes our
lives and causes lack, disease and death. Very often
we find one with only simple faith, often with little or
no education, using a simple statement of Truth, such
as "God is health," and yet they heal the sick and
relieve the heavy-hearted. We say it was blind faith,
but the fact
is,
there was no confusion
in
thought.
Many do their best demonstrating when they first turn
to Truth, and that
is
because their knowledge, limited
to simple ideas of Truth,
is
in order. Some think
that unless they use deep profound statements their
knowledge will not sufficiently impress their students,
and we find teachers using terms and phrases which the
average man does not understand. It
is
well to hold
to simple, basic fundamental statements of Truth and
to meditate upon them frequently. The statement
"God
is
All" includes the most profound and compli
cated statement of reality. Jesus used simple state
ments of Truth and they said of him "never
a
man
spake as that man," and the influence of his words in
the lives of men, daily grows greater and greater.
I
repeat
it
is
well to return often to our basis of truth.
When
a
musician practices
a
difficult selection and
he finds he
is
failing to produce the interpretation he
feels
in
his soul, do you think he keeps on playing
it
over and over? No, the true musician returns to his
scales and five-finger exercises and then to the difficult
That Unseen Presence 25
composition again. Put your mental house in order
by thinking in simple terms, if your body is ill and
your affairs out of harmony. If you have knowledge
of many teachings and you are in confusion, begin to
confine your search to one presentation of the science
of life. Attend that church and those meetings where
in the spirit and teaching rest your soul and bring
order and harmony to your world. Go where you find
friendly influences. We cannot afford to lose the
human touch of fellowship one with another. Empty
and futile is learning unless it blesses our lives and
points the way to God.
CHAPTER III.
THE CREATIVE VISION
"Your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall
see visions."
We are learning more and more every day that there
is a real value to the ideal element in our nature. The
capacity to see something beside the present actual con
ditions of things, has a value which we often under
estimate or judge too lightly.
In our practical workaday world of today the public
generally scorns the dreamer. Not through conviction
but through habit the practical business man raises the
eyebrow of scorn or bestows the smile of tolerance on
the dreamer, forgetful of the secret vision of his own
heart, once radiant but long since blurred by the mists
of materiality which keep him groping in what seems
real, and blinded to the divine purpose of him—the
vision perfect —the dream ideal.
To the mind of the old prophet Joel, the contem
plation of a time when dreaming of dreams by the old
and seeing visions by the young would be common
among men was one full of great joy. I am sure he
loved to think of a time when it would be realized by
his own people, for Jehovah had promised the crown
of blessing to his people.
26
That Unseen Presence 27
EXPECT YOUR DREAM TO COME TRUE
The Hebrew people could conceive of no greater
loss than to be deprived of a vision of the Divine Pur
pose, and therefore the greatest boon which a man of
God could offer to his people was a season of seers and
dreamers.
They say today we want facts, not fancies; accurate
statement of what
is,
not ideals of what might be.
Students of Divine Science know that these ideals are
essential conditions of progress, they lie at the heart
of all reality and activity, "Now we are the sons of
God, but
it
doth not appear what we shall be."
The youth has an idea of what life is to be to him
and of what he intends to do with it. That vision
is
the alluring power of his life.
It
is
the means by
which the spiritual purpose of his being
is
revealed to
him.
It
restores his hope when he grows discouraged,
it
inspires him to do all that he can today that he
may be one day nearer the realization of what he calls
his dream.
We may smile at youth's bright wisdom, but
it
is
this great expectation of the future which makes youth
so confident and so rich in enthusiasm. That man
is
forever young who keeps these fires burning
in
his
life. There are many sad things that may happen to
youth, but the saddest thing of all would be the loss
of vision from his soul.
Perpetual youth
is
for you. We are young—while
28 That Unseen Presence
we see in our lives some ideal to make real by the
might of the Spirit that is within us.
THE VISION SPLENDID
Progress ceases for that person who has no vision
of something still to dare or to do. It is the "Vision
Splendid" that keeps us moving on ; let it vanish and
we stand still. We are old that moment that the
vision of something still to be attained has fled.
To live is to move on toward the realization of
some vision of the Soul. When there seems nothing
more to live for, when there is no new course of
thought and no new line of action opening up before
us, when there is no new interest in things, when the
heart no longer beats in glad response to some appeal
to a higher life, then for us life has lost its meaning
and the upward vision has lost its pull.
There is within us a Something that is always pull
ing us to the better things and conditions of life. A
man passing a little boy sitting on the street curb no
ticed him looking with interest and animation into the
skies. Stopping, he said, "What are you doing, little
boy?" Without moving his eyes from the heavens, he
replied, "Flying a kite." The man answered, his eyes
following the boy's gaze, "I can't see any kite." The
boy with breathless awe replied, "But gee! feel it pull."
So with you and me —we do not always have a vision
of this Ideal, but we do feel its pull, if we still have
some vision of our soul to lead us on.
That Unseen Presence 29
FULFILLING YOUR SPIRITUAL
PURPOSE
Our ideals are the high-water mark of our spiritual
development, and the vision makes possible all individ
ual and collective progress. That nation, that state,
that organization, business, fraternal or religious, that
person who has no vision of something to be accom
plished in or through its life, is a dead and barren
thing, and they begin to perish when they become un
conscious of any ideal, and it would be well for them
if some prophet could renew life within them by a
revelation of the purpose for which they were placed
in the world. Every person, every organization, every
state, every nation, has a spiritual purpose and there
is "within" a power to accomplish and fulfill that pur
pose. Everything moves and lives according to the
nature of its dreams and according to its ability to
release the hidden power of its ideals to fulfill its
destiny.
That person or institution which has a vision for
which it is willing to make ventures of faith has al
ready an assurance of success. There is no value in
our thinking of a larger faith if we fear to attempt
some new thing.
It has always been men of great vision who have
moved the ages and they have always done it with a
revelation of the ideal element in life and duty.
Moses saw a vision of God as eternal ; Jesus saw
mirrored in his own pure nature the image and like
30 That Unseen Presence
ness of God; Martin Luther caught a glimpse of the
personal relations in which man stands to God. They
gave humanity a vision of a nobler aim and higher
purpose which inspired them and moved them to
greater thoughts and deeds. We cannot do without
the ideal and visionary element in the work of the
world. All the persons in history who are regarded
as worthy of remembrance are those whose thoughts
and deeds were a protest against what was thought
and believed to be the eternal order of things.
THE POTENCY OF THE INNER URGE
Our dreams of an ideal state of things may seem
all wrong to the wisdom of the hour, but in so far
as they reveal a world of perfect justice, order and
harmony, we will be nearer right in the future than
those who mock our dreams. The world is ever mov
ing towards a higher justice and a greater, larger love.
The universe is in our hands; we have dominion over
all things. The difference between the man of visions
and the practical man is that one sees what is today
a fact, and the other what ought to be and will be
the truth.
An ideal, a vision for us to be, helps us to create it.
There is a story of a very poor boy who wanted to
hear the song of the water elf who was supposed to
live in the stream near his home. Night after night
he sat on its bank thinking every now and then that
he heard the music of the elf. Later in his life the
way was made for him to study music, and when he
That Unseen Presence 31
had learned to play the violin he tried to reproduce
something of what he yearned to hear and sometimes
thought he did hear. People after a time loved to
hear him play because there was something in his music
that entranced them, something which none could un
derstand but all could feel throb in every note; and
so it is with every one who has an ideal of life. Rob
ert Browning has well said,
"
'Tis not what man does
that exalts him, but what man would be." Through
everything he says and does we feel the yearning of a
man's soul to make his dream come true.
HOW TO DIRECT YOUR THOUGHT
The best of us lies in what we seek to be and to do.
Never overlook the truth that Spirit is the only form
ing power and that you have that in you that is greater
than that which is in the world, that every idea has
within itself the power to express itself. You are a
Divine Idea, active in the world as a self-conscious
intelligence with all power to express the vision of your
spiritual being.
The glory of you is not in your action but in your
aim ; therefore, keep your thoughts high and lofty and
your visions will be of the glory of the Most High.
Always look up, "Unto the hills from whence cometh
my help." Help always comes from above, above the
clouds of the sense world. It has been accepted that
man cannot think without words, therefore let us do
our thinking in heaven (our ideals), that our words
may not return unto us void. "Greater things shall
32 That Unseen Presence
ye do also" was spoken of you, but you must fill your
mind with visions of greater things, more wonderful
conditions of peace, health and success, if you would
enjoy greater liberty, more joy and life more abun
dantly.
THE INESCAPABLE FULFILLMENT
Keep before your mind always the highest concepts
of God and his perfect world you can form, then en
deavor to enlarge that idea to a greater, more won
derful concept of the Christ Consciousness; in this
way "the mind that was in Christ Jesus" will become
more and more manifest in you and you will come into
more wonderful experience of demonstration than vou
ever dreamed possible.
Great things are in store for those that love the
Lord. Fall in love with God and be at peace. We
cannot escape the fulfillment of the vision of our souls,
the spiritual purpose of our lives. Our vision is in
finite, though our attainment be little, and what we
long for is God's promise of what we shall be.
"Still thru our paltry stir and strife
Glows down the wished ideal,
And longing molds in clay what life
Carves in the marble real.
To let the new life in, we know
Desire must ope the portal ;
Perhaps the longing to be so
Helps make the soul immortal.
That Unseen Presence
"Longing is God's fresh heavenward will,
With pur poor earthward striving,
We quench it that we may be still
Content with merely living.
But would we learn that heart's full scope
Which we are hourly wronging,
Our lives must climb from hope to hope
And realize our longing."
CHAPTER IV.
MAN'S INTENTION AN ACTIVE FORCE
In his "Destination of Man" Fichte has written,
"The will is in itself a constituent part of the tran
scendental world. By my free determination I change
and set in motion something in this transcendental
world, and my energy gives birth to an effect that is
new, permanent, and imperishable." That is to say,
man's intention is an active force in both the so-called
visible and invisible worlds, and this faculty of the
spirit of man determines the effect that he is to ex
perience, be it health of his body, adjustment of his
affairs or the establishment of peace, that peace that
passeth all our understanding.
THE DETERMINING POWER WITHIN
The cosmic energy of man's being is released in his
joyous contemplation of All Good, and with his free
determination it follows the channel of his intention
to works, marvelous manifestations following. In the
degree that I release the world, the symbol of my ex
perience, and acknowledge the loving presence of the
Spirit of Truth, in that degree is born in my con
science a power that shall establish eternal values in
my life—eternal health, peace and bliss.
34
That Unseen Presence 35
We are now participants in the life of this transcen
dental world that exists in that dimension which per
meates this world of matter, and there exists within
ourselves transcendental faculties and determining
power that will establish us in a perfectly new sphere
of life, giving us the experience of health, love, happi
ness and opulence world without end.
This Omnipresence which includes all and which is
undefinable, this nameless One, which is at work
throughout its universe, is responsible for the infinitude
of manifested life which surrounds us and is likewise
responsible for each of us. Therefore there is that
common intelligence in all in varying degrees of con
scious awareness as evidenced in the livingness of things,
and this Nameless One cares for us in the degree that
our will, our intention conforms with the law of its
tendency.
SPIRITUAL RESPONSE
We must realize that this world of matter is not
something to be acted upon by our will and compelled
to contribute to our peace, joy, happiness, and abun
dance; for such an attitude is an acknowledgment on
our part that Omnipotence and perfection in the com
pleteness and the Unity of existence is not a truth, but
that we "mere particles of the whole" have discovered
something that the Whole is not aware of, and that it
is our purpose to acquaint this Omnipotence of this
imperfection that we have discovered in the universe,
36 That Unseen Presence
in order that Omnipotence might be brought to bear
and correct or destroy this error. It is true the spirit
of Truth is not aware of this error, disease, sin and
death, any more than we are aware of the warfare
going on in our bodies between the white and red
corpuscles.
Hence, if the conditions of our being are not to be
compelled by the exercise of our will to contribute to
our peace, joy, and happiness, it must be that there is
some better way whereby conditions of our being re
spond in the spirit of Truth and reveal unto us the
glorified body, and the kingdom of heaven as our actual
experience of existence.
If the discord, disease, sin and death of which we are
aware, have no existence in the beauty, glory and
grandeur of a universal unity—the soul of the universe
in which we are "hid with Christ" —these things must
exist as an image in mind and are symbols by which
we seek to interpret an experience. If these have no
reality in the universal unity, that which is All, then
these ideas have no reality in us, and exist only because
we assume them to be.
UNIVERSAL LAW OF TENDENCY
Of our free determinations we change in our ob
jective consciousness by assumption, and set in motion
in the transcendental world, in harmony with the uni
versal law of tendency, something which, by our inten
tion to experience life more abundantly, establishes
effects that are permanent and imperishable.
That Unseen Presence 37
We do not enter into this new state of being by as
suming the old order of things not to be, but by an
acceptance and acknowledgment of the Christ truth.
Someone has said, "Belief in limitation is the one, the '
only thing, that causes limitation (sin, sickness and ,
death) because we thus impress limitation upon the
creative principle; and in proportion as we lay that
1
belief aside, our boundaries will expand, increasing life
and more abundant blessings will be ours."
FREEDOM IN TRUTH
Belief is an assumption, an idea that dominates our
interpretation of the world. If you believe in limita
tion, sin, sickness, and death, you cannot change this
belief because it is nothing in itself. In your mental
process to change it you have identified it in the realm
of existence, and you experience an opposition. Where
as the mere assumption of what is true in the Universal
Unity establishes you in perfect freedom.
Oug tendency is to assume that to be true which we
do not wish to experience and find ourselves acting in
accordance with that idea as if it were already an estab
lished fact. We should know no man after the flesh,
that
is,
as he appears; but we must know him in the
spirit of truth, and find him in Christ perfect "even as
his Father in Heaven
is
perfect." In this manner we
set
in
motion effects in the transcendental world that
reveal the glory of God among men.
"If ye know these things, happy are ye
if
ye do
them."
38 That Unseen Presence
REALIZATION OF THE IDEAL WITHIN
Man today is looking upward and forward to his
desired ideal. He is ever trying to work to his ideal
and finds, no matter how hard he tries and how fast
his progress, his ideal is always beyond him.
Many are inclined to say, ideals are not real and are
never to be realized ; and this because they must pos
sess their ideal in order to realize it and their ideal must
be separate from them to be real.
Ideals are not to be possessed and because of man's
desire to possess them are they beyond his reach. He
has recognized them as being separate from himself and
therefore they are not fully realized. We realize that
if man knew the ideal to be one with himself he could
not desire to possess it; if he knew that he is the
creator of his ideal and that the ideal is, therefore, the
image of his "Realself," he could not desire to possess
himself. Therefore
it
is
not the working to the de
sired ideal, thereby placing
it
in the objective —the
without —and living separate from the ideal that makes
it
real, but
it
is
the working from the ideal thereby
placing
it
in the subjective —the within—and living in
fellowship with the ideal that makes
it
real.
The ideal being the reflection or image of the "Real-
self," the origin or source from whence the ideal
is
made
is
that Realself, therefore the Realself
is
now all
that the ideal may be or ever shall be.
To make our ideals an objective reality we must live
in
and move from an ideal reality subjective; that
is,
That Unseen Presence 39
we must enjoy an ideal subjective reality before we
can experience an ideal objective reality. All ideals
must be subjectively realized before they can become
objectively realv y
It is not that which goes in that makes reality, but
that which comes out. It is not what we take into our
selves that makes us objectively, but that which we
give unto ourselves, and we can only give subjectively
—from within.
IN FELLOWSHIP WITH GOD
Man expresses objectively that which he is sub
jectively. Many today accept as real that which is
objective or discernible through the faculties of sense or
reason, while it is only the reflection or image of the real.
All things and conditions must be perfected subjectively
in the within—before they can be perfect objectively—
without. Only as we are conscious of a certain perfect
condition subjectively—within—can we rectify or
change a corresponding objective condition. Realizing
the ideal to be a child of the Realself we should unite
the child ideal with the parent Realself, thus causing a
fellowship consciousness to exist between the two.
The child desiring to be more and more like the parent
and the parent desiring the child to know more and
more of itself.
The Realself is the ideal, the image of God, and as
it is the Realself that gives to the outer man, it is
God that gives to the Realself. The gifts of God, the
Soul of the Universe, to the Realself comes as an in
40 That Unseen Presence
heritance wherein to enjoy this consciousness and the
outer man inherits the fruit of this God fellowship
which is the Realself's kingdom made manifest. To
make our ideals objectively true and real in the realm
of physical existence there are two essentials. We
must determine just what action our ideal would take
with the problem that confronts us. We must then
make that our objective activity.
Most of man's ideals are merely beautiful pictures
of things or conditions. He does not see his ideals
in action, therefore he gazes upon them with fond and
longing eyes and dreams of a time and place where
they become real and he shall meet them face to face,
while he becomes weary, tired and discouraged as he
endeavors to climb to them and make them his.
When man determines what his ideal would do
with this or that problem, he makes his ideal a living
actor which he sees in, as it were, a mental moving
picture; he watches its every movement; he enjoys its
conditions; he lives in fellowship with it; and as he
makes its activity his objectively he no longer works to
it but he works from
it,
thereby making his conditions
ideal here and now.
Put all your ideals within; live
in
constant fellow
ship with them, then will your without become ideal.
SPIRITUAL ATTAINMENT THROUGH
ACCEPTANCE
All our many ideals are but parts of one grand sub
lime reality separately recognized and objectified. In
That Unseen Presence 41
the creating of the many we are only endeavoring to
know and realize the One. In this manner we enlarge
our consciousness of self potentialities, and as we make
them the pattern of our daily lives the nearer Christ
like do we become.
Ideals are not material but spiritual, and we objec
tify them in materiality. Therefore, the one ideal
from which all ideals spring is the spiritual "I" of the
inner-man which deals its inherent qualities to the
outer-man as the outer-man is capable and willing to
receive.
We must know and understand our ideals, also the
relation they bear to us and to all things. Knowing
the source of a thing or condition does not necessarily
entail a knowledge of
it,
but only of its quality. We
know that all things and conditions are of God, the
Mighty Soul of the Universe, but we likewise know
we are, today, far from knowing all things consciously.
To know and realize our ideals we must be cogni
zant of their purpose, their workings and their supe
riority over their opposite or comparative condition.
For illustration,
if
we have conceived an "ideal life"
we must know and understand the laws governing
such
a
life
;
we must know the purpose of our ideal life
and what caused us to conceive
it
;
also we must see and
know wherein
it
is
superior to that life we desire to
better.
very man's mission
is
to make manifest his high-
J
est, noblest and truest conception of God's perfect man
and perfect environment. Is that not man's ideal man
42 That Unseen Presence
and ideal condition? Thus it is our mission to make
manifest our ideals. This does away with our hopes
for an ideal reality and necessitates our making reality
ideal.
THOUGHTS AND FEELINGS
"Feeling is deep and still; and the word that floats
on the surface is as the tossing buoy, that betrays
where the anchor is hidden."
In this "battle" of life does it seem to you that you
are facing defeat? Are you thinking that the forces
of the world are too much for you ?
Let us meditate upon the wisdom of Emerson, ftthe
only possibility of defeat is within yourself;" and the
great exemplar, Jesus, consolingly tells us "he that
is within you is greater than he that is in the world."
Through the wisdom of the ages we are ever learning
that all that appertains to our peace, happiness, health
and good fortune exists within ourselves, and that
which conditions us—the form of our bodies, our cir
cumstances and environments —is determined by the
nature of our thoughts and feelings.
Spirit is the only forming power and it follows the
channels in consciousness made by our thoughts and
feelings. The Universal Principle of life is not ma
terial but spiritual, and its livingness is not deter
mined by form or size but by thought and feeling.
We are prone to limit our thinking to the conditions
THE REBUILDING POWER
That Unseen Presence 43
of the world and our feeling to the forces of adversity,
whereas^
we should be unlimited in our thinking of \/
"that something" which is not of the world without /
but of the heart within, feeling the power of that I
which rebuilds conditions to fit the requirements of
an expanding soul.
IDEAS MADE MANIFEST
Man is always governed by Divine Mind and our
prayers are answered in God. The form taken by our
thoughts and feelings is determined by the source from
which we receive our ideas. Are you allowing your f
mind to take suggestion from the world of affairs?
If so, your doubts and fears will come upon you, for j
"the mind produces what it sees." Or are you "look
ing unto the hills" for your inspiration? If so, you
will experience the order and harmony of God's king- (
dom here and now.
"I am my own good fortune." I deal myself health, '
peace and prosperity for man is a distributor of Divine
opulence, health and happiness. The purpose of dis
tribution is a more perfect expression of God.
CHANGELESS PERFECTION
We can not add anything to nor can we take any
thing from God. We cannot add one pound to the
existing power of the universe ; but we can concentrate,
direct and distribute its force to a lesser or greater
degree. Therefore, you —made in the image and like
ness of Almighty Power —are now complete and
whole and nothing can be added to you spiritually nor
44 That Unseen Presence
taken from you spiritually. To establish ourselves in
peace, happiness and prosperity we must concentrate
all the forces of our spiritual being to the issue of the
moment.
TAKE COMMAND
We so often think that if our environment were
different we would be happier, have better health and
more wealth, and so we go to work on our environ
ment, ever forgetful that the power within is greater
than environment and that there is a voice that speak-
eth in the heart. "Circumstances prevent me from
being what I would?" "I will do it when I can."
"I need a change of climate." These are all pet ex
cuses of ours./ Be something now where you are ! You
are in command. Do not wait for a change of climate
or circumstance. Begin now. You must start and
you must start from where you are. We are told
"seek ye first the kingdom of God and its righteous
ness and all these things shall be added unto you."
You and I have been working so hard on the "things,"
the things of this world, and all the while if we would
but turn to the kingdom of God by a process of right
thinking, all things would be ours. Do you ever stop
to think how easy it all has been made for us? We
make it difficult. It is the habit of human thought to
make the worth-while things seem intricate and hard,
i We have been "laboring" to enter the kingdom that
we might have the good things of life, whereas all we
have to do is to "seek," not locate
it,
not find
it,
but
just "seek." The kingdom of God cometh not with
That Unseen Presence 45
observation. Neither shall they say, Lo here! or Lo
there! for behold, the kingdom of God is within you." J
—Luke 17:20, 21.
SEEKING THE KINGDOM
This kingdom within us is a perfect state of con
sciousness and we seek it by turning in thought to God,
not by looking for a better environment, climate or
state of affairs. Lao-Tze has said, "The further a
man goes in search of
it,
the less likely he
is
to find it."
We must "stand watch at the portal of thought" so
that our thoughts are always Godward and our feel
ings sense the nearness of Divine Love. The late Wil
liam James once said, "The Divine, for active life,
is
limited to abstract concepts, which as ideals interest
and determine me, but do so but faintly in compari
son with what
a
feeling of God might effect.
It
is
largely
a
question of intensity, but differences of in
tensity may make the whole center of one's energy
shift."
We must turn in thought from the seeming im
pending adversities to God, and this continual think
ing will make new channels in consciousness through
which the Universal Life energy flows, thus will we
develop
a
more intense sense of the nearness of God
and awake to find "all things new."
THE NEARNESS OF GOD
We have been doing
a
great deal of thinking about
God —the almightiness of spirit —the eternal realities
of His kingdom. We have tried very hard to see the
46 That Unseen Presence
good in things, while all we needed was to "be still
and know" and the deep intense feeling of Omnipres
ence would reveal all things good. We must not
strive to see the good —God—in things, but so think
as to feel the presence of God and the order and har
mony of His kingdom that reveals all things good.
So to live is Heaven. It frees us from all aims that
end in self and keeps our minds on divine things.
CHAPTER V.
FREEDOM THROUGH LAW OF
HARMONY
According to Emerson, "the simplest person, who in
his integrity worships God, becomes God; yet forever
and ever the influx of this better and universal self is
new and unsearchable."
Every day we hear people say "How I wish I were
free from the worries of the day, there are so many
things pressing in on me that I do not know which
way to turn." It is this state of mind which causes
man in his extremity to turn to the study of Divine
Science, in the hope that therein he will find freedom
and peace. Divine Science in practice is the true wor
ship of God in spirit and in truth which reveals to man,
in his immediate life experience, the order and harmony
of the Christ.
YOUR GOOD IS INESCAPABLE
One day a young man, who was struggling to pro
vide for his family, said "I know I can succeed in my
business, but each day I am nearly crazy wondering
how I am going to get the next dollar." I reminded
him that "your father knoweth you have need of all
these things." It is difficult for us to realize this truth
when no man at any time hath seen the Father, only
47
48 That Unseen Presence
the Son declareth Him. It is difficult to go forward
when we do not know as a certainty that the Father
knoweth our need. We shall understand some day that
time and things are but events in the life of the soul in
its Godward march. Can we satisfy ourselves that the
Father cares and knows? If Emerson's statement,
"The simplest person, who in his integrity worships
God, becomes God," is an utterance of Truth, then
you—you awakened God —are the father that knoweth
you have need of these things. Because you yourself
are the father of your personal and immediate experi
ence of life, accepting Emerson's statement, is it not
reasonable that you, more than anyone else, already
know all that is necessary for you to experience the
glory, power and peace of Christ? With the influx of
this better and universal self, the unity in Christ, is
there anything too hard for you to do? If you believe
in God you must believe in yourself, and you must like
wise believe that you cannot escape from your good.
WHEN GOD WORKS, MAN WORKS
The answer to a problem in mathematics is con
tained within the problem, and when we know the
answer there is no longer the problem. Just so when
we know God we reveal the Christ within. Many of
us have been trying to find the Christ within ourselves,
believing that it exists as some integral part of our
selves, hidden under the sin, sorrow and darkness of
mortal man, whereas, it is a revelation in experience —
we worship and know Him, the only true God, for
That Unseen Presence 49
"there is no bar nor wall in the soul where man, the
effect, ceases and where God, the cause, begins."
TO LEAD YOU MUST THINK
Why do we fail to succeed and to experience the
beauty, grandeur and joy of achievement? Because
we are so concerned about the next dollar, that of
which "the Father knoweth we have need." The
president of a large business house is not and cannot be
concerned with the details. He is interested in main
taining the big vision and the underlying purpose of
his firm. He is the president because he has been able
to free himself from the "next dollar." Marshal Foch
is reported to have said, when asked why he did not
lead his troops like the generals of old, "It is not my
business to fight, but to think."
NOTHING IMPOSSIBLE WITH GOD
Behind this knowledge that you have need of these
things, there is the influx of this universal self —the
Christ within—that makes all things possible for you
to the degree that you can make it or let it become the
activating motive of your being. This universal mind,
active in all creation, is today recognized by the
thinkers of the world. Thomas Edison says, "All sci
entists, in getting near the first great cause, feel that
about and through everything there is the play of an
eternal mind," and, according to Emerson, "Every man
is an inlet to the same (this mind) and to all the same."
This should free us from the idea that only a favored
50 That Unseen Presence
few succeed and are happy, and should fill us with the
will to do and dare, to make new ventures of faith.
Julius Caesar had this vision of the unity and com
pleteness of man-in-himself and the assurance that his
objective was more important than the way to
it,
for he
said, "Life
is
not worth having at the expense of
a
petty and feverish activity."
THE MAGIC OF JOYOUS EXPECTATION
Establish yourself in the finished kingdom of suc
cess, joy and happiness. Delight yourself now in the
Lord, and He will give you the desires of your heart.
We cannot delight ourselves in the Lord and be filled
with
a
feverish anxiety. Do each moment what your
hand findeth to do with joyful expectation of your good
to be revealed. All things work together for good,
and man, through the Christ within, has access to the
entire mind of the Creator.
PUT YOUR THOUGHTS TO WORK
The thought
in
the minds of many
is
"I am out of
place.
I
am so dissatisfied with my position in the
world." And then the question, "How can
I
change
it? Where and when shall
I
find that place which
I
can fill joyously?"
I
would say to you, "Where
a
man thinketh himself
to be there he is." This
is
just as true as "As
a
man
thinketh so
is
he." Did you ever want to be in some
place, or desire something so intensely that in thought
you lived
in
the joy of it? If not, do not be surprised
That Unseen Presence 51
that your desires seldom materialize. Nothing happens:
thinking only makes it so.
THE MIND WAY TO SUCCESS
The thought of wrong placement is so prevalent
that I wish I could acquaint you with the truth that
at no time are we out of our rightful places, and
though it seems to us that we are, we are where we are,
and what we are, in the world of affairs because we
are thinking ourselves to be in such a place and con
dition. It makes no difference where you are now, nor
how you feel about it. Do you sincerely desire it to
be different ? If so, there is an individual way of escape
and it is for YOU.
THE POWER OF AN IDEA
Have you an idea of what you would like to be and
where you would like to be? An idea! That is what
you must get. Do you know that God conceived an
idea and made man, you and me, in its image and
likeness? We are then God's idea, a self-conscious
entity with like power to give reality to our ideas;
therefore what is more important to you than your
idea of yourself and of your activity—your place?
Your present condition, physically or otherwise, be
what it may, is only your idea about yourself. It is not
you, for you are always the thinker, a divine idea—an
idea of God.
How shall we escape? Only through channels in
consciousness made deep with thoughts of divine
realities.
52 That Unseen Presence
Yes, we have been thinking, thinking, thinking,
but all remains the same. We have been thinking
ourselves in the thing or condition while we should
have been thinking on the JOY of the thing or
condition.
POUR JOY IN YOUR THINKING
A man whose income was small placed his boy in
a country bank. His duties were to keep things neat
and tidy and to sweep up after hours. The father's
advice to the boy was this, "When you do your work
always think of yourself as the president of the bank;
sweep the floor and dust as you think he would do it."
After a time that boy became the president of that
bank, and later the head of a chain of banks.
The only difference in working in what you think
is the wrong place and working in your right place is
in the joy of it. We feel we know all about the wrong
place, but we know nothing about our right place
because we have not yet realized it. So seek to know
and to think in the joy of your right activity. We
seem always to think on what we consider is the way
and means to the end, whereas we should conceive
the idea —the spiritual idea of the end; that is the
joy of
it,
and leave the way and the means with the
Divine Love, which never fails. There are ways
and means and forces we know not of, but which are
open and not unknown to the "I" that you are. "God
works in mysterious ways His wonders to perform."
Think in the joy of your idea and leave
it
all with
Him.
That Unseen Presence 53
THE SECRET OF JOYOUS FREEDOM
A lady once came to me with the problem of selling
an automobile. I said, "I do not sell automobiles."
She replied, "But you must help me to sell this auto
mobile." I saw that she was greatly disturbed and
worried, which revealed to me that her problem was
more than selling an automobile. It was only the
means to an end. Upon further inquiry it revealed
itself to be that she had obligated herself to pay a
debt which she had assumed out of her great love for
another, thinking that she had the wherewith to meet
it. She found it hard to sell the automobile, which
was one of the resources she had counted on to meet
the obligation, and as time passed, she was being pressed
more and more to close the account. Her inability to
fulfill her agreement disturbed her so greatly that she
felt she must sell the automobile and get all the help
she could to do it. I pointed out to her that it was not
the sale of the automobile she wanted so much as it
was the joy of being free from the obligation. I
explained to her that this was the idea she had to get,
"the joy of freedom." To think in God's kingdom,
there is joy, joy, joy. Woman is a divine idea, made in
the image and likeness of God, perfect, pure, divine,
harmonious and ever in the joy of her Lord, she was
free—joyously free. Later she received a very curt
summons to the office of the firm. She went and told
them she would pay the account just as soon as she
could, explaining to them just how and why she assumed
54 That Unseen Presence
such an obligation. They asked her how she expected
to raise the necessary amount, and she said by the sale
of an automobile. After asking her about the auto
mobile they informed her they would take the car
and receipt her bill. This was her unknown channel
of escape, the door she had kept closed by trying to
make God sell the car to get money to pay the bill to
have the joy of freedom.
THE RIGHT PLACE IS FOR YOU
Think in the joy of your desires, not in the letter
of them, and God shall make them manifest unto you.
Man is a spiritual being, living in a spiritual uni
verse governed by law and order ; therefore the order of
spirit has provided a right place for you, and spiritual
law causes man, you, to come into his place.
Our material place, position, can only be conceived
by thinking of our relation to other things; therefore,
to enjoy our true position, place, we must think of it
in its spiritual actuality and consider it in the light
of our relation to God, divine principle, and no one
who learns the truth of man's relation to God need
fail to be always in his right place and joyously living
its activity.
"The son can do nothing of himself but what he
seeth the father do; for whatsoever things he doeth,
these also doeth the son likewise."
PROSPERITY YOUR DIVINE RIGHT
The master of divine science understood man's
relation to God, and that man's relation to God never
That Unseen Presence 55
can be interrupted nor severed. Man never must think
himself apart from God and his spiritual position.
God works by means of man, therefore man is God
in action and the realization of your spiritual unity
with God establishes you now at work in your proper
place. If you see God at work your thoughts will be
ideas of perfection, harmony, abundance, joy, and as
thought begets action, you will be actively perfect,
harmonious, happy and prosperous, and you will know
yourself to be in your proper place, doing joyously
your work.
Do your thinking in that world where things are not
made with hands, the heaven thought-world, and divine
love will keep your feet in the way you should go to
greater joy, peace and prosperity.
CHAPTER VI.
CLEARING THE MENTAL VISION
Someone has said: "There are two conditions that
the mind carries as a mask : personal opinion and fear."
Is it not true that the majority of us view the events
and conditions of our lives through the lens of our fear,
our belief, and our opinion? These are the colored
glasses through which we see the world and which
establish moods of mind and habits of behavior. We
are so absorbed and concerned in our feverish anxiety
that life offers little that cheers and makes our living
interesting. Oh, that we might know that the suffer
ings of this present time are not worthy to be compared
with the glory which shall be revealed in us. This
knowledge and understanding is only attainable
through the unmasking of our minds.
MANIFESTATION THROUGH
EXPECTATION
One of the greatest forces we possess is in that
power which we have of giving assent or of with
holding it. We have masked the Christ mind, that
which is the true mind of ourselves, by giving assent
to "the sufferings of this present time" and by not
withholding assent to our fear for the future. You
56
That Unseen Presence 57
may say: "I never give assent to my fears; I use my
affirmations religiously." But assent is not given nor
withheld by thinking, but by "that something" which
Paul refers to in his words "earnest expectation." We
are somewhat like the man who attended a social gath
ering, and on being asked how he enjoyed himself, re
plied : "Pretty well, but then, I didn't expect to." We
declare and deny, but all the while "we didn't expect."
Unmasking our minds is infinitely more than intellec
tual certainty; it is that earnest expectation that wait-
eth for the manifestation, enjoyed and exercised in
terms of our Godward vision.
It is truly a habit of ours to expect our fears, and
our mental work is to the end that we may destroy the
things we fear. In so doing we are giving assent to
the possible experience of loss, sorrow, disease, and
death. Giving and withholding assent is unified in
"earnest expectation," and if we can possess our souls
in patience, the glory of God shall be revealed in us.
We find ourselves filled with that feeling of uncer
tainty whenever we contemplate the outcome of our
present conditions.
To remove these mental masks that are no part of
ourselves- we must turn to God and heaven and expe
rience, in the living Christ consciousness, a fulfillment
of our highest hopes. The acknowledgment of this
will cause a deep conviction within as to the certainty
of our good. A great peace as to the outcome of our
life experience will possess us, and we will see things
58 That Unseen Presence
and the world not as they appear to be, but as they
ought to be and will be.
YOUR GOOD AVAILABLE IN THE EVER
PRESENT NOW
If the All-Good is All, and we participate in this
All-Good, this unity in the Christ consciousness that
is established in man makes it impossible for man to
escape his own good. From the basis of this allness
and unity of man in Christ, these fears and opinions
are only personal illusions, and have no power nor
reality in them. They have existence only in the men
tal mask of man and in themselves are no-thing.
It is the acknowledgment of these fears that gives
them power and brings them upon us, whereas "earn
est expectation" of the good removes anxiety and gives
us assurance of peace, health and happiness, which in
good time shall manifest in us.
We must realize that we are important and neces
sary to the completeness, unity and perfection of the
All-Good, and as such the All-Good has already pro
vided for us from the foundation of the world all that
is required for a healthy, happy and prosperous life in
eternity—this immediate experience —for eternity is the
ever-present now.
tyAN, THE DISTRIBUTOR OF DIVINE
OPULENCE
To the great majority of the children of men the
demands of the day are perplexing, often terrifying.
Life seems to be a treadmill, and men rush hither and
That Unseen Presence 59
thither to escape the bondage of limitation. The Bible
seeks to inform us that everything needful to man's
life, love and happiness is the free gift of God. That
we cannot originate the source of our living nor of
our good, but that God, the source of all good and
every perfect gift, originated us, and from the same
source comes our everlasting and eternal supply.
Therefore, the relation we bear to the storehouse of
infinite abundance is as faithful stewards, and as such
we are privileged to distribute the opulence of the
Lord. If we experience lack and friction, it is being
caused by some error in our thinking, because the
originating spirit of our being can never change, it
being All. We limit our supply and cut ourselves off
from Its love and care when we think or recognize
that our supply is being withheld by some conditions in
the world of matter.
ACQUIRING THE WEALTH
CONSCIOUSNESS
The late Judge Troward stated : "Our desires should
not be directed so much to the acquisition of particular
things, as to the reproduction in ourselves of particular
phases of the Spirit's activity, and this being in its
very nature creative is bound to externalize as corre
sponding things and circumstances." This, in Divine
Science, is exchanging the objective thing for its spir
itual idea. Upon this spiritual idea we focus our
minds and our mental processes to the end that we
may enlarge our concepts of spiritual values and reali
60 That Unseen Presence
ties. This in turn supplies us with the necessary things
or conditions to give us the experience we desire.
We err in our thinking when we concentrate our
minds upon definite things or conditions, believing that
they are necessary to the fulfillment of our needs. All
our mental processes should be to establish in our con
sciousness the Allness of God and an understanding
that we participate in the glory and beauty of the
Christ, of Omnipresence, the one foundation which
has always been established in Christ.
WEALTH FROM WITHIN
Man in his search for his good is prone to seek in
the outer. "Progress is not toward God, but within
the Infinite Life." Progress that will destroy and
change confusion and. set man free is within his very
being. Within is that power which is greater than all
that is in the world. Within is "the peace that pass-
eth all understanding."
We think aimlessly because we are moved upon from
the outer world. Mechanism moves from without,
but organism moves from within. When we are
moved by the outer conditions of our environment, we
are placing our dependence upon something exterior,
whereas we are complete in ourselves. When we look
for something to add to ourselves, to make it possible
for us to set things right, then we are not building
upon the foundation that is established within us—
that foundation of the living spirit of Christ.
We must progress inward to that contemplation and
That Unseen Presence 61
acknowledgment of a supreme, perfect and divine king
dom in which we live now. We are one with God, in
Christ. Whatever we think to be true of God and
ourselves is likewise true of everyone else. When we
know man only after the pattern of Christ Jesus, then
we will find there comes to us a deep sense of abiding
peace.
We must be pure in our thinking: we are the tem
ples of God. Confusion is what makes it impossible
for the light within to shine. We are so active re
sponding to the things of the world that we are moved
upon —we are not activated from within. If we can
be still in the very silence of our souls, we can turn
to that inward presence, and upon that foundation
build that which we hope to express. No one can
build for us; we must build for ourselves. Man may
assist us and give us the pattern, but we must do the
building.
The foundation is established. ^As we think and
move from within, so we realize in the outer/7 Let us
identify ourselves as the Christ and build upon that
foundation. What is true of Christ is true of us;
what is true of God's kingdom is true of our kingdom.
"Awake, thou that sleepest, and behold that glory of
God."
THE HIGH CALLING
"But this one thing I do, forgetting those things
which are behind, and reaching forth to those things
which are before ; I press toward the mark of the prize
of the high calling in God."
62 That Unseen Presence
We are all trying to get an insight of how to make
our lives successful, how to arrive at a greater realiza
tion of peace, happiness and prosperity by the applica
tion of divine power.
The quotation above is the divine prescription for
success given by Paul. "This one thing to do." He
wrote this epistle while in a Roman prison, an old
man very shortly to leave what we call the "material
world." His had been a life full of events and intense
feeling. There must have been times when he felt
that he had achieved the heights, yet here, reviewing
it all, he says, "I count myself not to have appre
hended, but this one thing I do,—I press forward
toward the mark of the prize of the high calling of
God."
He is here pointing out to us an ideal state—success
—toward which we must keep pressing, unmindful of
our past, with no remorse, no regret, no belittling
thought of what we have done, or left undone. I
think we all have more of a tendency to look backward
than we have to look forward. Paul had discovered
that he would not arrive at the "high calling" by
looking back on the stonings and the imprisonments,
the suffering and deaths he had caused, but forgetting
those, he was looking steadfastly forward to the divine
purpose of his calling.
This looking back stops progress and causes the
reappearance of past events in our lives. You and I
find ourselves determined to look backward ; we think
That Unseen Presence 63
about the mistakes we have made and the disappoint
ments that have come to us, and the things we wish
we had not done, while all the time we should be
"forgetting those things which are behind."
CONSTRUCTIVE FORGETTING
The other day I overheard a man and a woman on
the street having an argument and there could be no
doubt about its being a forceful one. She said, "You
are all the time throwing those old things up to me."
He was reminding her of some of the things that had
transpired in their lives. Poor man —had he been a
student of psychology he would have realized that he
was bringing those things up to have them happen all
over again. In states of anger we are not to remind
people of those things which are behind, nor must we
remind ourselves of that which has happened, because
the mind in us, that which we sometimes call the "sub
conscious mind," only needs a reminder to produce the
same condition over and over again, and in this way
keep from us "the high calling"—the success we desire.
A person came to me to help her make a financial
demonstration. She said, "I can't get started in the
right way." After talking together for some time I
discovered she had a deep sense of remorse because of
a mistake she had made in her life. She felt it was
known and discovered by everyone. I had her write
the names of all the people she knew who knew all
about these circumstances. She could think of about
64 That Unseen Presence
twenty persons. I then said, "Think of the thousands
that know nothing of it. 'Go and sin no more.' God
holds nothing against you; forget those mistakes which
are passed, and go forward to your success." She is
now successful in a nearby city.
GREATER THINGS AHEAD
In the old thought we have been accustomed to
think, "Have mercy upon me, a miserable sinner," so
that the sympathy of the divine heart might be moved
to help us. This is only another way of expressing
self-pity. Now we know the curse of self-pity, do we
not? It weakens the will to do and to be, and makes -
one feel, "Oh, what's the use."
This looking backward in time causes us to make
excuses for our present condition, and to discount
the promise of the future. There is within you a
power, a divine power, that is greater than that which
is in the world. This power is ever moving forward to
greater things. You and I must hold the forward
look if we would make use of this divine power that
is within us, this power that is greater than all that
is in the world ; this power that makes use of all of
your mistakes.
I once knew a man who said he made and lost four
fortunes before he learned how to keep and enjoy his
wealth. I asked him what he thought was his greatest
power in recreating his finances. He replied, "For
getting my losses, and applying my mind to rebuilding
That Unseen Presence 65
my estate. I lost no thought nor sleep in worry over
what I had done, but occupied my mind with what
I was going to do." He was using every ounce of
his energy, strength and mental power "pressing for
ward to the high calling"—success.
VENTURES OF FAITH
To achieve success we must have some objective,
the "prize of the high calling in God" for which we
are willing to continually make ventures of faith. Step
out of your despair, your feeling that your stars are
not with you, shake off your regrets and morbid
thoughts, and press forward. All that happens in
our lives are only events, and each exists in the present
instant, therefore this present instant is free for that
successful event of your life, providing you keep your
self open to divine impulse, and to do this your mind
must be as a little child's, free of "Oh, dears! Oh,
mys!" and "I wish I hadn't." Forgetting is not a
process of mind functioning, but is the result of the
complete concentration of all the forces and faculties
of your being to the great objective of your life, the
high calling in God, a state of health, peace and pros
perity. We must keep our minds filled with great,
deep and wonderful ideas and concepts of a perfect
man in a perfect world enjoying a perfect condition
of being, then the indwelling presence of the mind that
was in Christ Jesus will establish us in that conscious
ness of perfect success which is changeless and eternal.
CHAPTER VII.
THE HEALING POWER OF PRAYER
The people of the world today are giving more and
more attention to divine healing. Every person has a
problem, either physical or mental, a business or do
mestic difficulty, in the solving of which he needs God's
help. "I am thy God who healeth all thy diseases."
We are knowing today that inharmony, poverty, fail
ure and distress are diseases just as much as a bodily
sickness is a disease. In fact, physical illness is the re
flection of states of consciousness, existing in and con
trolling the mind of man.
The people of the world are turning to prayer for
the recovery of the sick because of the promises found
in the Bible, and thousands can testify to the efficacy
of Divine healing. Prominent physicians are recogniz
ing that there are certain diseases which respond more
readily to religious mind cure than to any other treat
ment, and in all conditions they treat the mind as an
important factor toward recovery.
If prayer has a curative effect could it not also have
a preventive influence? and, as "an ounce of preven
tion is worth a pound of cure," why not pray without
ceasing ?
Psychologists know that an idea phrased in reli
gious terms is more readily accepted and acted upon
66
That Unseen Presence 67
by the mind of man than the same idea expressed in
any other way. It receives less resistance because of
the subconscious faith and belief in the order and har
mony of the word of God,, and the almightiness of
God to do and to make every whit whole.
RIGHT THINKING FOR HEALTH
The application of religious mind cure to our human
ills releases that which governs the processes of body
building and functioning and frees us from the stran
gling grip of our fears, false beliefs and ideas. It es
tablishes new attitudes of mind which reveal to us
greater channels of expression and work, developing
new ideas as how more fully and completely to enjoy
them.
Prayer is the only scientific application of mind cure
and true prayer is the turning to God by a process of
right thinking. Solomon many years ago declared
that as a man "thinketh in his heart, so is he." Hence
the quality of the man is determined by the quality of
his thought, and right thinking is true prayer; know
ing the truth that shall free man from sin, disease,
poverty and death. All sin, sickness and suffering has
been thought into existence and will remain until
thought out of the mind of man by true prayer, as the
application of religious mind cure.
THE ACTION OF DIVINE PRINCIPLE
How healing is accomplished through the mind is a
difficult idea for most people to understand. It is an
acknowledged and understood fact that the mind pro
68 That Unseen Presence
duces what it perceives as an idea. All that man
knows or thinks of himself exists as ideas in his mind.
Placing his thought in a channel where only true,
pure, healthy ideas can exist, reverses his thought
processes, and external conditions change to conform
to the new ideas. It is difficult for a person to reverse
his ideas of himself because they are so firmly estab
lished in his consciousness. If his idea of himself is
that he is suffering from pain in the heart, that is the
condition he is most certain of and to think he has no
pain in the heart would be a lie, because he would be
certain of the pain. It is generally accepted that God
is Principle, omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent.
God is Mind, the creative governing Principle of the
universe, and as such we cannot conceive of pain of
any kind existing therein, therefore prayerfully re
joicing that there is no pain in the heart in God's
kingdom, the kingdom of Heaven, we cause our mind's
eye to perceive our highest concept of God and His
perfect condition. Thus our mind is filled with new
ideas and they in turn become evident in our condition
of being, body and mind.
GO FORTH AND HEAL
Every thought is a treatment, but we must learn to
treat scientifically. It is not for lack of treatment that
we fail in our demonstration of healing, but because
our every thought is not "brought into bondage to
Christ." Our belief in the reality of our weakness,
pain and disease delays our healing.
That Unseen Presence 69
When we treat weakness, pain and disease we are
treating unscientifically because we are treating from
our belief, and not from our consciousness of the allness
of truth and the perfection of man in the divine idea.
Most of us are only humanly conscious and it is diffi
cult for us to understand anything that is not percept
ible by our human faculties and knowledge. Most of
us have very little first-hand material knowledge. The
greater percentage of our human knowledge is by ac
ceptance, and we have incorporated it into our belief
and faith which is the power that governs our demon
strations. By spiritual re-education we incorporate in
our belief and faith, new ideas of reality in health,
strength and joy, by acknowledgment, acceptance and
appreciation of the Christ ideal.
HEALTH IS DIVINELY NATURAL
We must now acknowledge that God, the divine
creative and sustaining spirit, made man out of itself
of its own substance, in its own likeness ; therefore man
is not material, but spiritual "perfect now as his Father
is perfect."
We now acknowledge that this Universal life made
manifest in us is eternal, and is the changeless reality
of our being ; for we cannot exist apart from
it,
nor be
different from our source of being.
This divine creative principle
is
omniactive as life,
power and perfect being. All that
is
unlike God
is
only seeming, and has its only reality in man's mind.
70 That Unseen Presence
Therefore a spiritual treatment is not a corrective
method, but a realizing force that makes us responsive
to the Christ consciousness in man which reveals the
wonder, the glory, the peace, and the beauty, strength
and health of our being as sons of God.
TREATMENT IS SPONTANEOUS
EXPRESSION
A treatment is scientific only when it affirms that
which is the truth of man as he abides in the Father —
the finished kingdom. The wording of the treatment
should be the spontaneous expression of man's apprecia
tion of the allness of God.
There is a harmony and order of the Christ spirit
now manifesting itself as perfect health, and our ac
knowledgment and appreciation of it reveals it to us
in our bodies. The mathematical truth that two plus
two is four is an eternal reality. The fact that we
call it five does not change the truth of its being four.
By our ignorance we stand in our own light, for the
Christ spirit is omniactive in us now as perfect health.
For you and me to be directly benefited by the activity
of the omnipresent Christ spirit, we must acknowledge
Him the only true God, and keep our mind stayed on
Him. .
Though you and I do not see the appearance of the
omnipresent perfection in our bodies, it is still the truth
that health is the true state of our being, for God is all
and there is none other.
That Unseen Presence 71
BECOMING AWARE OF GOD
In a scientific treatment we seek to gain a deeper
understanding of God's perfect man, living now in a
perfect kingdom, by enlarging our capacity to appre
ciate.
"The changeless reality of my being is health, life
and power sustained by the omniactive Christ spirit
of me."
We should take this statement of actuality for a
month, and each day meditate upon
it,
thereby enlarg
ing our capacity to know and understand the basic
truth contained
in
it. By this process these ideas will
become incorporated in our consciousness, and we will
each day become aware of the glory of God being made
manifest in us.
A scientific treatment
is
to "hold the pattern of
healthful words which thou hast heard from me
in
faith and love which
is
in Christ."
72 That Unseen Presence
WHAT IS DIVINE SCIENCE?
DIVINE SCIENCE is that Science which teaches
the way to the understanding and realization of the
actual presence of God constantly active in man's life
and in all his affairs.
Therefore Divine Science teaches the practical appli
cation of the laws of God to all problems arising in
man's daily life and to the solving of them by spiritual
forces.
It brings to the mind the realization of the nearness
of God, of the presence of that Power which trans
forms the entire scheme of man's existence —when thor
oughly understood.
Divine Science reveals the supremacy of love and
the essential of faith whereby man may with divine
assurance challenge the promise of the Master that
according to the law —"whatsoever ye ask of the
Father it shall be done unto you."
Divine Science is a revelation of man's actual con
tact with the UNSEEN PRESENCE— that all per
vading Spirit which is the Substance of all Good and
of all life and which is the activating principle of every
object in Creation —from the radiant far-away suns to
the tiniest flower that blooms ; from the mightiest ocean
to the infinitesimal grain of sand on its shore, and the
life activity is impartially zealous and eager in the
perpetuation of all manifestations.
That Unseen Presence 73
Divine Science teaches that way by which the mind
of man can comprehend the allness of Spirit and realize
the ephemeral visionary nature of visibility. In its
light, the understanding pours into the consciousness
of man as the dammed up waters of a stream pour into
the sea when the obstruction is removed. The obstruc
tion in the mind of man has been his ignorant belief,
his doubt, his uncertainty of the actual meaning of the
Master's promise in declaring that all things possible
to God are possible to man. But Divine Science
comes with its declaration of the actual Presence, and
proves by startling demonstrations the great Power
within the soul of man that is forever seeking co-oper
ation with the visible intelligence.
Divine Science demonstrates the actual presence of
the kingdom of Heaven HERE and NOW.
you Should ^ave^
Walter W. Raymond's
Alexandria Lectures
on_>
"Fourth Dimensional Consciousness1'
m
Love as a Cosmic Phenomenon
Karma and Divine Science
The Key to the Invisible World
Realizing the Invisible World
Common Sense and Cosmic Sense
The Soul of the Universe
The Birth of Consciousness
Development of Superconsciousness
Sensing the Invisible World
The Power of the Resurrection
The Path of Initiation
The Infinite in Man
Temporal and Eternal Unity
The Key to Mystical Experience
The Escape of the Soul
The Secret of Illumination
The Voice of the Silence
The Dream World
The New Master
The First Church of Divine Science, Inc.
204-206 Broadway Central Bldg., 424 So. Broadway
Los Angeles
The
First Church of Divine Science
Walter W. Raymond, Pastor
Sunday services at 1 1 and 8 o'clock
Healing service Wednesday at 2 o'clock
Mid-week service Wednesday at 8 o'clock
Classes in the study of Divine Science
424 South Broadway Los Angeles
The author will be pleased to hear from readers of
this book who desire private instruction or assistance
in the solution of their personal problems.
Address :
REV. WALTER W. RAYMOND
Taster
First Church of Divine Science
424 South Broadway, Los Angeles, California
Divine Science Fellowship
Metaphysical Books and Library
Lectures Daily
By Prominent Teachers and Authors
424 South Broadway Los Angeles
