{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research 8860 7891","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_proceedings_v1_circular_n1_december_1883.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V1 Circular Number 1 December 1883","mylang":"de"}
Oircular No.1. 295
To lembers and Associates of the Society for Psychical Research.
:CIRCULAR No.1.
(SECOND EDITION).
ON THE GENERAL WORK OF THE SOOIETY.
14, DEAN'S YARD, WESTMINSTER, S.W.,
December, 1883.
The Coullcil of the S.P.R. have from time to time receive4 letters
from ·Members and Associates, inquiring in what practical manner they
could best further the Society's objects.
The Council on their part wannly welcome such offers of assistance.
They feel that the task which the Society has before it is a long and arduous
one, and can only be achieved by the co-operation of many labourers. It
is, moreover, desirable that these labourers should be widely distributed over
this and other COUJ;ltries, in order that each may act as &. centre for the
collection of information, for the formation of local committees, or· at any
rate for the dissemination of a spirit of serious inquiry. It has been thought,
therefore, that an account, somewhat more detailed than has been already
published, of the lines of work which seem to offer the best chance of useful
results, may with advantage be circulated among all our members. Their
active help in research is more important even than their pecuniary support.
The research-work of the Society is at present divided between six
Committees, elected by the Council from among the Members and Associates.
The following are the names and addresses of the respecth"e secretaries :-
1. Committee on Thought-tramjef'ence.
PROFESSOR BARRETT,6, De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown, Co. Dublin.
2. Committee em Mem&eriBm.
MB. F. PODMORE, 16, Southampton Street, Fitzroy Square, W.
3. Committee on Reichenbach', and ai,nilaf' experiments.
Ma W. H. COFFIN, 94, Cornwall Gardens, South Kensington, S.W.
4. Committee em Phyaical Phenomena.
MBo FRANE SBPTIMUS HUGHEs, 1, Clilford'. Inn, LondoD, E.C.
w2
Digitized by Google
296
5. Oommittee on Haunted Housu.
MR. EDWARD R. PEASE, 11,Osnaburgh Strect, Regent's Park, N.W.
6. Literary Oommittee (for the collection examination, and presentation of
etJidmee).
MR. EDMUND GURNEY, 26, Montpelier Square, S.W.
MR. F. W. H. MYERS, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Taking these Committees in order, let us consider how the work of each
may be most effectively furthered.
(1) Thought-reading-or, as we should prefer to call it, thow.Jht-
transference,-is the branch of our research in which hitherto most progress
has been made. This is right and natural; till this comparatively simple
class of facts shall have been widely and intelligently recognised, our
labours in other directions must fail of their full effect. And we think that
thero ought to be little difficulty in rapidly rendering our investigation on
this side so complete as to leave no further room for objections, however
trivial or unfair. But this rapid progrOBB depends on the amount of
collaboration that we receive. There is yet much to be done b:efore our
ovidence can present itself to the eyes of a world, consisting not wholly
of philosophical and dispassionate persons, as a sufficient foundation for the
structure which we desire to raise upon it.
WA fully allow tl1at for this end the conditions of the experiments have
not as yet been sufficiently varied-the trials having been conducted, for
the most part, by one set of experimenters, and with but a few subjects.
It may fairly be ·argued -that if this faculty of thought-transference is
found in some persons ill a high state of perfection, it should be present in
a rudimentary state in many more : this hypothesis has so far been most
insufficiently tested. We have to allow, moreover, that we are as yet only
leBS ignorant than the rest of the world as to the conditions under which
these phenomena occur, and their relations to other natural facts. Thus
we neither know what circumstances favour the receptivity of the recipient,
nor how best to arrange the number, or to direct and concentrate the
impreBSional energy, of the experimenters; nor have we any certain induc-
tion as to the effect of greater or less distances or of obstacles interposed
between the experimenter and the "subject." Again, while our experiments
so far seem to prove that the transferred impression is sometimes of a visual,
sometin1es of an auditory kind, sometimes, again, of th~ nature of suppressed
speech, we are ignorant of the relative frequency of these several modes,
and of the conditions which favour anyone of them rather than the othel'll ;
whether, .for instance, the explanation of such differences is t~ be sought
rather in the peculiarity of the subject, or in the special manner in which
the attention of the experimenters is concentrated. Once more; in our
Digitized by Google
Circular No. 1. 297
experiments on the mental transference of rude drawings, which could not be
expre8lled in words, the visual impression in the recipient's mind has some-
times been laterally inverted, and in the complementary colour of the
original,-black lines on a white ground appearing as white lines on a dark
ground,---obviously fuller information on these points is most important.
What is needed, then, is a large number of experiments similar to those
already published, but conducted by different groups of persons and under
~erent conditions. We have reason to believe that the percipient faculty,
80 far from being abnormal or infrequent, is pretty generally diffused; and
if this fact is gradually made good among persons of recognised position ~d
intelligence, attempts to explain the results by trickery and collusion
will become increasingly ridiculous. Only thus, moreover, can we obtain
llufficient material upon which to base generalisations.
The experiments required are neither difficult nor costly; they involve
no great expenditure of time, nor do they demand any other qualities than
patience and accuracy. Even where they fail, the time spent upon them
will not ha\'e been wasted; for where the aim is not merely to demonstrate
the existence of particular facts, but to ascertain the conditions of their occur-
rence, failure may be as instructive as succeBB.
We shall be grateful, therefore, to all persons, whether members of our
Society or others, wlto will undertake a series of experiments of the kind
detailed below, and will forward the results to us. These results will
be collated and summarised, and the whole or a portion of the evidence
will be eventually published, together with any general conclusions and
observations that may be suggested by it. W~ must specially urge, however,
that those who are willing thus to co-operate with us will accurately
record the results of every experiment made; we do ~ot desire selected.'
results.
Instead of sending the results of their investigation to the Committee,
our friends may prefer to present a paper on the subject, in their own name,
to the Council; such papers will be gladly received, and if paBBed by the
Council will be read before the Society, and "referred" for publication in
the Proceedings of the Society. We would further ask all intending
(:oadjutors to communicate their names to the Hon. Secretary of the
Thought-transference Committee. Forms, a speeimen of which is sent
herewith, for recording the results of the experiments., and coloured
discs, &c., can be obtained on application to the Secretary of the Society,
at 14, Dean's Yard, Westminster, S.W.
The objects recommended for experiment are (1) cards, (2) numbers,
(3) words and names, (4) coloured discs, (5) geometrical figures, patterns, &c.,
(6) tunes.
If the experiment is made with cards the whole pack should be used, and
not a selected portion of it. If with numbers, names, &c., the principle
Digitized by Google
298 Oircular :No.1.
on which the selection is made should be indicated (e.g., that the number
consists of two figures, or that the name is a Christian name), in order
that some estimate may be formed of the chances against succeBB. In no
case should more than two trials be allowed; and when the number of
objects to be selected from falls below ten, there should be no second trial.
Absolute silence should be secured during the ProgreBB of the experiments.
If the first trial is a failure, the percipient should learn that fact from the
silence of the experimenter, or "agent," as we prefer to call him. It should
further be stated what precautions, if any, have been taken to preclude
the poBBihility of learning the object selected by ordinary means. There
are reasons why experiments conducted by two persons only are specially
valuable. Particular attention should be paid to the following points:-
(1) the exact nature of the impreBBion produced, and the relative sensibility
of difterent persons to the visual and other sorts of impreBBion; (2) the-
comparative succeBB of the experiment with one "agent," and with many,
and especially whether success seems to be promoted by the fact that the-
circle contains a member or members nearly connected by blood, or by
any sympathetic bond, with the "subject"; (3) the cconnection between the-
experiments and the state of health of both agent and percipient; (4) the-
duration of the sensitive stage; (5) its capacity for improvement by exercise.
.Any other observations suggested by. the experiments will, of course, be
welcomed by the Committee. A specimen schedule is appended; X indicates.
quite right; 0 indicates that no impreBBion was produced, and no gueBB made~
Digitized by Google
Circular No.1. 299
FORM No. I.
EXPERIMENTS ON THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
~--------------~------------------~--------------------------
AGRNT: PEROIPIENT :
JohnSmiUt Robert JO'1Ie.
AGBNTS:
John Roberts,
Mary Robert&,
Henry Owen.
Date.
Object
selected.
(e.y., a card.)
First trial.
! Object
Second trial. IDate. selected.
I (e.y.,
Mar. 4of diamonds x
I,
18Jffi. IE of club, 3 of club. x
Q. of spade, .1 of .pade. Q. of clubs
10f hem"/;8 x
3 of spades
8 of heartB
5 of diamo7UIs
Kn. of heartB
7 of clubs
6 of healU
Q. of spade, x
1 of heartB I x i
x I I
Kn.of diamd,.I K. of hearts
4of he:rta \9 ofdiamonds
April
3,
1883.
a name.)
Hutchin8O'1l
\ Watkins
Scftm
Orton
Hiuuins
Inman
PERCIPIENT:
Ada Roberts.
First
trial_
x
Wells
Skiptm
x
Hitcki-rIB
o
Second
trial.
x
x
x
o
-- ----------I,---------I-------'-il-- ----1------1--------
Total No.
of
experiments,
10.
No. right
on
first trial,
4.
No. right
on
second trial,
8.
I
Total No.
of experi-
ments,
6.
No. right
onfirst
trial,
2.
No. right
on&econd
trial,
'"
u.
Observations :-In ttOO out of the three experiments with cards which failed
Qil both trials, the two guesses together include the. correct designation of the card.
In two of the three experiments ufith'1i.ames, which t/Jere succe88ful on the secolld
trial, the name giren on tlte -fil:,t trial bore a distinct resemblance to the
rigM one.
igitized by Googl
300 Oircular No.1.
(2) The transition f1'om thought-transference to the phenomena of so-
called me3meriam is a gradual one. Many, at least, of the commonly reported
~esmeric phenomena consist .parlIy of some transmission of thought or
sensation from the operator to the subject. We should be glad to hear
of and to witneu any such cases. We are allxious also for evidence as to
the curative power of mesmerism; and if any of our membel'll, resident
in or near London, can suggest a case· where mesmeric treatment seems
likely to be of service, we shall be glad to consider whether we can provide
such treatment, under the sup&rvision of a duly qualified physician.
We are especially anxious to witness cases of what is tel1Jled mesmeric
lucidity, or clairroyance. The distinction between thought-transference
(mesmeric or otherwise) and cla.irvbyance we take to be that in thought-
transference the idea or image is fiashed into the recipient!s mind from
some other mind in which it is already present, whereas the clainJ01Jant
is said to discem at a distance inanimate objects, or persOllS whose thoughts
are in no way directed towards him. Such clairvoyance is undoubtedly rare,
but there is much evidence for its occasional occurrence. Experiments in
these higher phenomena of mesmerism need to be conducted under careful
supervlBlon. There is reason, however, for confident belief that they can
be safely carried on under experienced guidance; and the Committee
earnestly request that early information may be sent to them of cases
where these occurrences are observed.
(3) The Reic1&enbacll Oommittee, who have recently achieved unexpectedly
favourable results, will be glad to receive information as to any peculiar
electric or magnetic effect observed in connection with special OrganisatIOns ;
or as to any unexplained luminous appearances attaching to crystals,
magnets, and the human form. The occurrence of natural somnambulism
is a marked prognostic of sensitiveness of this kind; and the Committee
will be glad to offer facilities for experiment, at their rooms in Dean's Yard,
to any person in whom this symptom has shewn itself.
(4) The Committee on Physical PluJft.omena-of the kind commonly
called spiritualistic. This is a subject which has been largely brought before
the public through paid mediums. In such cases it is clear that there are
strong temptations to fraud, and the Committee (some of whom have for
many years attended specislly to this particular point) are of opinion that
results obtained where the medium is paid, and the investigators untrained.
are generally worthleu fo1' scientific purposes. They desire to eliminate, at
least one temptation to fraud, by sitting with private and unpaid mediums,
and they eamestly request communications from private circles, giving an
account of such phenomena (occurring spontaneously or otherwise), as
lights, movements of objects, raps, voices, unexplained noises, and other
cognate occurrences. It should be specified whether such ph~nomena came
under the observation of more than one person, and if so, whether their
Digitized by Google
OiJ~cular No.1. 301
accounts were coru.istent. An exact description of the conditions of observa-
'tion is also requested. The Secretaries of this Committee, or other members
of it, would gladly assist, if so permitted, at the further verification of these
reported phenomena. They can easily understand that private circles
may be reluctant to admit any observers from without. But they would
impress upon such circles the extreme importance of so doing, in order that
the scattered phenomena may be brought to a focus, and set forth in a
manner to command scientific attention.
Any account of personal experiments with· the so~led "divining rod "
will also be welcomed by this Committee.
(5) The Oommittee on Haunted, HO'U8es invite information on any unusual
()Ccurrences seemingly confined to parlicula.r localities, such as bell-ringing,
unseen footsteps, &c. ; but, especially, apparitions of any kind. It should
- -. be specially noted whether these phenomenawere observed at fixed periods or
(In certain days of the year. There are houses bearing this kind of reputation
in most localities ; and it would be of real service if any member would
take pains to sift the rumours current about such houses in his own neigh-
bourhood, and, if possible, track them to their source. It may probably be
-often found that the reputation of being " haunted" is due to easily
~xplicable sources of noise or disturbance, and it is eminently desirable
that all such cases should be distinctly cleared up.
'Ve shall gladly avail ourselves of any opportunity which our members
mny be able to procure for us of personally investigating occurrences of this
nature. As the pecuniary value of a house is sometimes thought to be
-endangered by a reputation for being haunted, we may here repeat the
$ta~ement which refers equally to communications received by all tho
()ommittees-viz., that all information will be regarded as confidential, when
it is so desired.
(6) The Literary Oommittee. The communications hitherto invited have
mainly been concerned with phenomenanow occurring, or presumably capable
-of reproduction. But the Literary Committee are anxious to receive accounts
-of experiences, in the past as well as the present, of any kind at all cognate
to those already enumerated. Dreams, premonitory, symbolic, or coincident
eit.her with other similar drenmB or with the external fact dreamt of;
instances of so-called second-sight; accounts of apparitions during life, at
the moment of denth, or after death; or, on the other hand, of spectral
illusions recognised as such by the subject of them ;-there is hardly any
kind of abnormal phenomenon which, if exactly recorded and fully attested,
may not add a valuable item to the vast collection of facts which must be
garnered up before generalisations can be safely attempted.
The Committee are glad, also, to receive references to passsges in books.
in any language, where phenomena of this kind are incidentally recorded.
Digitized by Google
302 Oircular No. 1.
In many biographies some such incident occurs; nnd a reference to such a.
, story, with the title-page and date of the book distinctly given, will alwa)'l\
be gratefully received. Infonnation as to foreign researches on psychical
subjects is also desired; nnd as the Society is founding a library for the use
of its members, any offers of books, either as gifts or for purchase, will be
glsdly considered.
It may be added, in conclusion, that any criticisms or suggestions with
which readers of this paper may favour us, will be a welcome form of
assistance.
=
Digitized by Google
