{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__krishnamurti___by_what_authority.pdf","mytitle":"By What Authority","mylang":"de"}
BY WHAT AUTHORITY?
OMMENCAMP FIRE TALKS 1927
B Y J r K R I S H N A M 'U R T I
T HE STAR P U B L IS H IN G T R U S T
EERDE OMMEN HOLLAND
lfV
\
COPYRIGHT 1927
THE STAR PUBLISHING TRUST TRANSLATION RIGHTS RESERVED
COPYRIGHT 1927
THE STAR PUBLISHING TRUST TRANSLATION RIGHTS RESERVED
B Y W H A T A U T H O R I T Y ?
I
During my talks here
every evening I want to point out the way and to
arouse in you the necessary strength so that you
will be able to discover for yourselves your own
source of greatness, your own source of nobility,
the beginning of your own aspiration and of the
desire to achieve Liberation and Happiness. In
doing that and in giving you an explanation of
what I mean by Liberation and Happiness, I must
ask you to set aside, all the time, your own con-
ceptiens and enter into my thoughts and feelings,
so that you will be able to understand from my
point of view what is meant by Liberation and by
Happiness. In order to facilitate your thought, so
that you will be able to dig deep within your­
selves, I am going to tell you a story.
Once upon a time, there
was a flame of immense magnitude, of great
height, reaching to the heavens, and out of that
flame came many sparks and among those many
sparks there was created, from ~one spark, a
human being, and that human being we shall call,
for the moment, Krishnamurti. I take that story
because I know Krishnamurti well and as I shall
examine him impersonally, I am going to ask you
to do the same. Before I begin with my story, I
want you to detach yourselves from your indiyid-
ualities, so that you will be able to examine]
yourselves as I am going to examine Krishnamurti.]
That spark, through aeons*
of time, through endless passage of time, became1
a human being. At first that human being was in
the shape of a savage. He had, like all savages
and barbarians, one desire, and that was the
satisfaction of the physical; he gave way to the
desires of the body, the pleasures of the body; to
him the existence of life, the purpose of life, the
end of life, was in the mere satisfaction of those
desires and those cravings that are of the body.
During many lives he learned, he suffered, he
learned to acquire, he learned to possess, he
learned to gather everything for himself. He was
not happy till he had many possessions, many
acquisitions — all things that perish. He dwelt in
the winter time of ignorance; while he was young
in evolution, he had only one purpose and that
was the mere satisfaction of the body and the
pleasures of the body. But through the passage of
time, through sorrow, he began to learn the laws
of the community, the laws that exist for the
benefit of all, and through observing those laws
and obeying those laws, he began to distinguish
what is true and what is lasting from what is
false and what is fleeting. He began, by the
breaking of those laws, to suffer; and through
many lives he was acquiring experience, till he
grew to the state of a civilised being. Through
8
many aeons, through the passage of time, through
years of suffering, and longing to escape from
those things which the world considers are essen-
tial for the well-being and the happiness of human
beings, he sought for knowledge. Because, he said
to himself, wherever I go, wherever I live, there is
misery, there is turmoil around me and within me,
and in order to escape this turmoil, in order to
escape this limitation, this unhappiness. I must go
out, seek and wander, to discover that which is
lasting, that which is permanent.
He began to depend on
other people for his happiness, he began to depend
on others for his affection, on others for his love,
on others for his worship; in this search for the
lasting truth, he began to lose himself in temples,
in ceremonies, at the altars, in all those things
which are limiting and binding, but he was not
satisfied and he was in constant revolt. He desired
to extricate himself from those shrines that are by
the wayside leading to the mountain-top. His
desire was intense to discover what lay behind the
picture which he was worshipping, what was
behind the eyes and the mind of that image which
was put before him, which he had worshipped
life after life. To discover what lay behind the
eyes, behind the heart of that picture, he went
through immense sorrows, great disappointments
and intense longings. Little by little, by austerities,
by tortures, by starvation, in many lives, he was
able to control his body, and while he was con­
trolling his body, he was training at the same time
his emotions and his mind; because when they
are not cooperating, when they are not coordi­
nated, when they are not synthetic, then there is
discord, then there is no well-being.
As the fisherman goes
out to sea on the open waters to gather fish, so
he started on life to gather experience and while-
gathering experience he was caught in his own
net and he had to. cut himself loose from that net
of experience to be free, to enter into that flame
which is the essence of all experience. Little by
little that person whom you know as Krishna-
murti, who started as a separate spark, as a sepa­
rate being from the flame, has been able, through
great experiences, to be united with the flame.
I have told you that story,
because ordinarily, when an individual starts as
a separate being, it takes aeons, it takes centuries
of time to acquire all the lessons, all the teachings
that life can give before there is the possibility of
perceiving, of seeing that vision of Liberation and
Happiness. But for everyone of you who is here,
it is possible now to perceive that vision of Libera­
tion and Happiness, because you are now in the
presence of the Beloved, and when the Beloved is
with you, time as such ceases. You need not go
through all the experiences of sorrow, of afflic­
tion, of grief, of intense joy, to perceive that goal
which is the end for all. As the river at the
beginning of its course knows its end and seeks
sedulously to enter that sea, so you must know
; from the very beginning of your days, the end
which awaits all.
I am saying this, not to
impose authority, not to make you credulous, not
to make you give devotion to the personality of
one being. I am telling you all this because when
you have become united with the Beloved, when
you have merged into the flame, you can then go
* out and give that Happiness and that Liberation
to others; you can give to those who are hungry,
the Happiness that is lasting; you can give to those
who are held in a prison of sorrow and grief, the
vision of Liberation. You can but give it, you can
I but show it, but the individual must struggle to
attain it. For authority can be cut down as the
tree; and if you have not roots deep within you,
i well established in the ground, your tree will die,
and will have to be re-planted. But if you have
the roots well and firmly established, then it will
sprout and bear tender leaves and buds and give
shelter once more. And in telling you of this
attainment of Liberation and Happiness,- I am
going to urge every one of you to think not of the
- individual that is speaking, but to go within and
examine yourselves. Because I have found my
happiness, because I have found my tranquillity
and my peace, because l have been united with
p T
my Beloved, I would have you do the same. And
to do that, to feel that union with the Beloved,
there must be within you the strong and pure
heart, the clear and tranquil mind. As the sun
shines on all, on the daisy and on the forest tree,
and helps them to grow, so, when the Beloved
* is with you, you will grow to your fullest measure,
no matter at what stage of evolution you may be.
For such is the purpose
of life: to start as the spark of a flame, to gather
experience, and eventually to re-join the flame, so
that the individual self is destroyed. Happy is he
who has been able to' unite himself with the
Beloved. Happy is he, for he will be able to help
others, for he will be able to give of the living
waters of life to those that are thirsty, to those
that are in want.
So, friend, I want you to
realise from the very beginning that Happiness
does not depend on any other individual, but on
yourself. It has been my intense longing to unite
with my Beloved, and it has been fulfilled because
it has been my purpose from the very ancient of
days. Now, while the Beloved' is with you, when
there is the possibility of seeing that vision, of
holding that vision and well establishing it within
your heart and within your mind, I want you
to set aside and destroy all things that separate
you and sp become one with the Beloved. There
is a great opportunity, there is a great possibility
12
of attainment for you, if you feel strongly and
intensely enough.
It is my purpose to show
you that within you lies the strength and the
power to attain and to establish within yourself
Happiness and Liberation, so that when you go
out into the world, you will be able to speak with
your own authority which is born out of your
own experience.
II
This afternoon I was
walking in the garden where the flowers were
in full bloom. There was a border of varied
flowers and every flower had reached the culmi­
nation, the fruition of its being, had fulfilled its
function and blossomed into the world giving
pleasure to man. It had waited the whole summer
to blossom out and bring forth its scent and give
of that scent to the man who delights in beauty.
In the same way man is
searching everywhere for the fulfillment of him­
self, in all climes, in all places, under all skies.
Through political, social and economic activity,
he is seeking for the fruition, for the development
of himself through happiness. All people of the
world, whether they be in the East or in the West,
whether their skin is yellow, brown, black, or
white, they are all seeking happiness. Happiness
is the heritage of all, happiness is the goal for all,
happiness is the end for all \— the happiness that
outlasts all touch of sorrow, that is eternal, that
is permanent, that is the fruition of the accumu­
lation of all experience. There is such a permanent,
lasting, indestructible happiness, but man must seek
for it through the passing stages of unhappiness.
Go where you will, there you will find man
seeking happiness in perishable things. Whether it
be in the East or in the West, all suffer alike, all
14
have the same sorrows, the same afflictions, the
same desires, the same agonies; and all are seeking
for that happiness, which dwells ever within,
which is eternal. Man seeks in trivial things for
that Happiness which is everlasting, for that
Happiness which is Liberation. If he be hungry,
he seeks to satisfy his stomach; if he be sorrow­
laden, his happiness lies in forgetting himself. The
Sannyasi, the man who has renounced the world
and withdrawn into the secluded valley, seeks that
happiness; the creator, the artist, the genius seeks
for that happiness which will last, which will stand
the test of time, which will give him strength,
which will give him vitality to withstand the
onslaughts of sorrow, of grief and of affliction.
But in search of that happiness which is lasting,
they lose themselves in the impermanent. Of what
use is the happiness that can be destroyed? Of
what use is it to be momentarily delighted when
that delight disappears? Of what use is creation
which gives momentary pleasure when that which
you have created is destroyed?
Wherever you go, wher­
ever you wander, there is a longing search to dis­
cover an abode where you can dwell peacefully
and in tranquillity, where you can become one
with that Kingdom of Happiness. There are
many ways of seeking and attaining that
Happiness, but the end, the goal, is the same
for all, to whatever temperament or type a
man may belong. Whatever his mode of activ­
ity in the world may be, the goal for him
is the attainment of Happiness and Liberation.
For when once you have perceived that end, to
attain it you will throw aside all transient things,
all those things which pass away with the touch
of sorrow.
You will find that the
man — under whatever clime — who is seeking
for that Kingdom, which he knows dwells within,
is like the butterfly, wandering from one flower
to another, gathering honey. He is always looking
outwards, always trying to find that happiness,
that beauty, that comfort, that Liberation in the
outward manifestation. And while he is wandering
outward in the world of shadow, he is caught as
in a net in the world of the unreal, and hence he
begins to create karma. What he sows he will reap;
whatever his actions may be, they will bear their
own fruit. He cannot escape, and so he is caught
continually in that world of transient things: from
one sorrow he goes to another sorrow, from
great sorrows to greater sorrows, from little
pleasures to greater pleasures. While sorrow and
fleeting pleasure cage him and hold him, he
cannot go into that Kingdom where lies eternal
Happiness.
That Kingdom of Hap­
piness lies not in the world of manifestation, where
there are shadows and decay, but within each
one of you, and it is there that you must turn and
seek. As the flower contains the scent, as the
flower hides divinity within itself, so within each
one of you lies the Kingdom of Happiness, what­
ever be your stage of evolution, whatever be
your griefs or afflictions. When once you have
discovered it within yourselves, #then you can
wander forth from the real to the unreal.
I want, for the moment,
to give you an image so as to make it clear to
you that the goal for all human beings is Libera­
tion and Happiness. Let us imagine for a moment
the top of a mountain where there are the last
rays of a setting sun, where the beauty of the
past day is concentrated. On that mountain are
various stages, various sheltering huts, and each
shelter invites you to stop and worship the partic­
ular god that it holds. And so man, though he
knows that there is an ultimate goal, stays in these
huts, enjoying himself and wasting his time, hence
creating unnecessary karma which binds him to
the wheel of life and death. So he must pass
through those stages, rest in every shelter, if he
is weak and has not sufficient strength and suffi­
cient will to climb to the top. To acquire that will,
that determination, that purposefulness, he must
go within and awaken himself to the Reality which
lies there.
Most of you worship a
picture, and when that picture becomes alive you
wish that it had not, for that picture will tell you
to go within yourselves, and not to worship that
which is destructible, a mere canvas that can be
torn. W hen that picture tells you to go within
and there discover the Kingdom of Reality, the
Kingdom of Truth, the Kingdom of Happiness
and Liberation, you find it difficult because it
requires thought, it requires training, it requires
self-examination, self-criticism, which very few of
you are willing to go through. You require some
great miracle to transport you to the mountain-top.
You are waiting for some Divine M anifestation to
exhibit Himself miraculously, amidst thunder and
lightning, and give you some medicine which will
transform you, purify you and give you strength
to leap to the mountain-top.
But, friend, the Truth lies
in you; and because I have found that Truth,
because I have identified myself with that Truth,
and because my Beloved and I are one in my
hearty I would tell you how to open those gates
which will let you into your own heart, into your
own mind, where you will find peace and tran­
quillity. But you must know what is sorrow, what
is suffering, what is affliction, what are pleasures
that are imperishable, what are pleasures that are
lasting. W isdom comes out of experience, and
understanding out of a pure heart; and if there
is no experience, if the heart is not willing to
understand, you will remain long in the shelters
18
/
° n/ the upward mountain path. And because you
kfjave the Beioved with you, you can leave all those
shelters and become the Beloved.
j There lies the greatness
f of the moment, for there be very few days of
> summer, days when you .can gather in your hay,
when you can prepare your house and put all
things in order, to welcome the Guest; because you
will find that the Beloved is yourself —>
ennobled,
glorified, yourself made perfect. And when once
you have found Him within your heart and well
established Him in your mind, then you have
entered into that Kingdom of Happiness which is
everlasting, into that Liberation which has no
limitations.
So those who would seek
Happiness and Liberation must wander within,
must search out and find their own Kingdom. And
when they have found that abode they will dis­
cover that it is the Kingdom for all — for all are
searching, all are suffering and sorrow-laden. And
those who have drunk at that fountain, who have
developed that wisdom which is- the outcome of
experience, can go out and give to the afflicted of
that lasting Happiness which is Liberation.
19
I should like you to liste.c
diligently, this evening, to the voice of my words
and understand its full meaning, so that there may
be comprehension both of the mind and of the
heart. I desire, this evening, if I can, to take you
into my heart and into my mind and to show you
how my dream has been realised, how I have
found my tranquillity and my peace — that peace
which gives Happiness and Liberation — and how
it has been given to me to behold and to possess
my Beloved. And that you may understand and
comprehend fully, I would beg you not to use me
as an authority, because it is my purpose to lead
you into your own hearts, if you would follow me,
so that you will there meet with my Well-Beloved
and there enter on the path of peace where there
is certainty, where there is no shadow of doubt.
That you may understand me fully, I must make
you realise the Truth for the moment, and perhaps
for the rest of your life, so that you will be able
to shatter your prejudices, the walls that you have
erected during this life around the conception and
the understanding of the Truth. For I would that
you should completely destroy your narrowness,
your limitations, and the things that you have
acquired, the things that have become part of your
being, which have made you narrow, which have
perverted the judgment of Truth. What I am
going to say is very simple, so simple that the
complicated mind cannot understand, because the
complicated heart and the complicated mind seize
and pervert the Truth. What I say must not be
taken as an authority to convince others, or even
to convince yourself.
I know that many in this
Camp are troubled about certain subjects that need
clearing, that need understanding, and it is my
purpose this evening to tell you that it will be fatal
if we fight over words. There are people in this
Camp, and in the world, who demand that in order
to believe, in order to understand something that
is very simple — for great truth is always simple
and direct — there must be a miracle. I was told by
someone that before he could believe that I am
that which I profess to be, there must be a miracle.
W hat greater miracle can there be than that you
should understand and grasp the Truth? What
greater miracle need there be than that a person
should be able to lead you into your own hearts,
into your own minds, and there help you to dis­
cover the Truth? What miracle need there be to
understand the smooth waters that flow down to
the sea and the boisterous, dancing waters of the
sea itself, or to understand the pure, beautiful rose,
or the clear skies and a solitary cloud? What con­
viction need^there be on the part of the beholder,
on the part of the seeker, on the part of the suf­
ferer, to alter his course of thought, his attitude
r
of mind? I know it is much more difficult to believe
the Truth, to be convinced of the Truth than to
be hypnotised by a miracle. If I were able to per­
form a miracle, you would at once believe. But
conviction is not born through transient things;
the miracle is for the moment, but the Truth is
eternal and permanent. And because I would take
you into my heart, and would give of that under­
standing which I possess, I ask you to set aside
all your complications, all your theories, all your
judgments, so that you can understand the Truth.
It has been given to me,
as I said, to be able, as an individual, to attain
a certain altitude where I perceive life differently
from the ordinary human being, where life which
possesses most people does not possess me, where
life is understood in its simplicity and in its purity.
It has been given to me to attain this Happiness
and this Liberation. For it is in freeing, in liber­
ating oneself from all narrowing affections, from
all sorrows, afflictions and griefs, that one truly
attains the eternal Happiness. It is my purpose to
give of that understanding, of the waters of life
which shall satisfy .the thirsty, and I shall do it,
whether people call me by one name or by another
name. And it is because of that intense, burning
desire to give, that I would take you to my heart
and give you the understanding which I possess.
The Truth lies in giving happiness to others, that
lasting Happiness which will liberate them from
their own afflictions, from their own pettiness,from
their own narrowness, from their limitations and
from their prejudices. And I shall be able to do it,
because in me I possess that fountain. Do not let
us quarrel, do not let us disagree over a word.
W hat matters is that you should understand the
Truth, because you are suffering, because you are
longing to find the Truth which I have found,
because you are caught in the wheel of life and
death, and desire to escape from its limitation.
It does not matter who
gives you the Truth, who gives you the under-
standing that will enable you to climb to the
mountain-top where you will discover yourself
and the Kingdom of Happiness. If you worship
the personality, the personality of Krishnamurti,
if you give your affection to that being, you will
suffer, because that being passes away, is
destroyed and decays, because it is a transient
thing. W'hile if you are the disciples of the Truth,
then you will become part of that Truth. When
you see the beauty of a sunset, that sunset does
not give you a moral code, it does not give you
laws, regulations, dogmas, creeds, but if you
become part of that beauty, then you need never
worry about laws, regulations, modes of life, moral
laws and so on. If you have that understanding,
you will not be held in the net of transient things,
of complicated things that have no value.
23
In saying all this, I do not
wish to exercise authority, but to convince you
of your own value, of your own strength, to
multiply your own desires so that you may
achieve, so that you may give. Whether I am
this or that, or whether I am that which I profess
to be, is of no value. That which I am, remains
with me. That which I am not, falleth away from
me. That which I have gained, that which I pos-
sess, that which is part of me, can never go.
So, with that understand­
ing, let us examine the question. The world —
what does it desire? It desires people who have
found the Truth, who are not swamped by creeds,
by dogmas, by quarrels. It does not care what you
think of me, or what I think of you, but it desires
to drink of that knowledge which you possess,
and if you dissipate yourselves in these petty
discriminations, you are oblivious of the needs of
those people who are suffering, who are afflicted,
those people who are longing to find the Truth.
As I have said, I am
burning with the desire to give you such an under­
standing that you will rid yourselves of all your
jargons, all your systems, all your philosophies,
such an understanding as will put a mirror before
you, so that you will see yourselves as you are,
so that you will from that vision gather strength
in order to climb. To discover yourself, to find
yourself, to strengthen yourself, is all that matters,
i
is
and not your dogmas, your creeds, your philos-
ophies. Because you all suffer, you want to be
mesmerised by words, you want to be hypnotised
by soft-sounding, melodious notes, but you can
never by these means destroy the cause of
sorrow; you may pass it by for a season but it
will return as inevitably as the sunrise. In order
to destroy that sorrow, in order to annihilate that
which creates sorrow, you must go within and
discover the world of reality, the world of Libera­
tion, the world of Happiness.
The world problem is the
individual problem; if the individual is at peace,
has happiness, has great tolerance, and an intense
desire to help, then the world problem as such
ceases to exist. You consider the world pro­
blem before you have considered your own
problem. Before you have established peace and
understanding in .your own hearts and in your
own minds, you desire to establish peace and
tranquillity in the minds of others, in your nations
and in your states; whereas peace and under­
standing will only come when there is under­
standing, certainty and strength in yourselves.
What is the purpose of
life? W hy do you suffer? Why are you afflicted?
•Why have you to weep? Why have you to
ercise control? Why have you to struggle? It is
process of evolution from the very beginning,
iom the very foundation of the earth, from the
time when the spark starts forth on its individual
progress. While it is climbing towards that moun-
tain-top, it accumulates those things that are
unnecessary, and through this accumulation it
creates karma, and gradually, as it progresses on
that upward path, it begins to discard, it becomes
more simple, until it joins the flame and becomes
the Truth itself. From the flame you came forth,
to the flame you will return and thus unite the
beginning and the end. The purpose of life is to
lose the separate self which started as an individ­
ual spark and when you have done that, then
the Truth is established within you and you
become part of the Truth, and you are yourself
the Truth.
When you go away from
here, people will question you, and because they
see the light in your face and happiness in your
heart, they will desire to share it. In what manner
are you going to give it? Are you going to say:
“You must believe in such-and-such an individual
with such-and-such a label”? Or are you going
to say: “He has opened my heart and has given
me understanding and I wish to share it with
you”? By that alone you will be judged, and by
that alone you will be able to help. People do not
require names, labels, badges, societies and orders;
they are not going to be satisfied by creeds and
dogmas and enforced beliefs, but by under
standing, sympathy and affection. They requir
that water which shall quench their thirst, which
shall quench their burnings and their longings,
and pacify and give them certainty, and'hence
strength, in themselves. If you make use of author^
ity — it does not matter whose it is — you are
limiting them to that particular authority, and they
will suffer and the time will come when they will
desire to free themselves from that authority.
That Truth which dwells
in each one of you must be uncovered, and in me
lies the power to give you encouragement, as the
sun shines on the daisy as well as on the rose. If
you have the longing, if you have sufficient
understanding and purpose, you will understand
the Truth in its pure sense, in its simplicity; but if
you are complicated, you will pervert it. The river
which meanders down to the sea feeds all the
peoples of the world, without concerning itself as
to whether they be brown, black, white or yellow.
All that it remembers is that it must keep its
source alive and undefiled, so that it may feed
those people on its banks who are thirsty, and the
trees that have roots deep under the earth.
W hether man pollutes it by his machines or by
his complications, is not its concern.
So, friends, because you
have gathered from all parts of the world, and
you will go away again and talk of all that you
have heard here, I would that you could destroy
your misunderstandings of the Truth, your narrow
judgments, your limitations, so that you will be
able to give to those who are hungry, of that
which will satisfy them eternally. And to do that,
you have to set aside *— as you put aside your
cloak '— your small theories, your complications,
and become simple, as simple as a single star in a
naked sky. When you see beauty, the beauty of the
rose, the beauty of the sunset or of the sky, and
you cannot appreciate and understand that beauty,
it is of no use for me to tell you concerning the
beauty of it. If you have a veil in front of your
eyes, I may be able, perhaps, to tear it away, but
if you have the power again to grow another veil,
woe to you! When you go out, you must have
understood the Truth, but if you have little
understanding, little narrownesses, you will per­
vert the Truth, you will not be able to help
others. I know you give your devotion, your love,
to the personality of Krishnamurti, but that is not
enough, friends. You must understand the Truth,
you must, during these few days, go inside your­
selves and there discover Krishnamurti, for there
you will find him, as I have found my Beloved.
And when you find him, you will have found
peace, you will have entered on the path of peace,
you will have opened the gates of Happiness and
Liberation.
28
IV
In ancient days man
retired from the turmoil and bustle of the
world, and withdrew into the world of reality
within himself to seek peace and happiness. He
secluded himself to search, to discover, to com­
mune with himself and so to enter into that King­
dom where there is Sappiness, where there is
Liberation. But as times are now, when you have
to build both materially and spiritually, you must
remain in the world and there find your Libera­
tion and your Happiness. While building mate­
rially, you must at the same time build your
spiritual strength, your spiritual determination,
and be liberated from that very building
itself. When the artist paints a picture, he
is not attached to the picture, he is merely
concerned with reproducing his ideas and mate­
rialising them on canvas; after he has done that,
he is free. Likewise those of you who are still
seeking, who are still groping, who would desire
to enter into that realm of Happiness and of
Truth which abides in each one, you must still
live in the world of forms, the world of mani­
festation, the world of unreality, and there,
working in the unreal you must discover the real.
You must be of the Truth, part of the Truth, and
yet work with the unreal and the fleeting. You
cannot withdraw, as of yore, into forests, into
monasteries, into quiet, secluded valleys to seek
and to commune with yourself. That is not Liber­
ation, that is mere seif-attainment, that is mere
self-seeking; those who would really attain in the
times of to-day, while they are working in the
world, while they are making the world beautiful
and noble, and perfecting the transient things,
even while they are struggling, while they are
suffering and are afflictedTmust seek that Libera­
tion and that Happiness.
So if you look at it from
that point of view, Liberation is not annihilation;
on the contrary, it is construction; Liberation is
not negative, but on the contrary, it is positive.
It is not entering into a mere void and there losing
yourself, but it is entering into Truth, becoming
part of the Truth, and going out and liberating
those who are worshipping the reflections on the
still pools; then you have great energies and vital­
ity, then you are part of the world. W hen once
you have attained Liberation and when once that
Happiness becomes part of your being, then you
realise that Liberation is constructive and not a
mere vague dream. It is as tangible as that fire
which you see, as alive and dancing as that flame.
There are those who imagine that Liberation is
the annihilation of the world, the entering into
a void where there is no self. It is true that there
is no separate self, but there is the self of all;
there the world is one; the flower, the blade of
30
grass, the vast skies, every tree, every human
being exists in that Kingdom. Because many have
the idea that Liberation means the annihilation of
all things around them, the destruction of the world
of material welfare, of art, of science, of beauty,
I would urge on you that it is rather in making
those things that are around you more beautiful,
more noble and more perfect, that you attain
Liberation, although at the same time you must be
detached from them all. As the scent of the flower
is wafted through the air and leaves the flower
' as it was, so is the liberated man who gives
freshness, who gives delight to every passer­
by. So those of you who would seek this
Liberation and this Happiness must not only
dream, must not only have contemplations
and solitary retreats, but must work in the
world of transient things, making the world
beautiful, making it noble, and making human
beings happy, even though these are temporary.
In order to forget the physical you must first
perfect it; in order to attain you must not
neglect it.
For what profit is know­
ledge, understanding and wisdom, if you do not
use that understanding, that wisdom and that
knowledge to break the fetters that bind you?
M any of you are more learned in the ways of
books than perhaps I am, many of you are much
more aged in this life than I am, but because I
have found my Liberation and because I have
attained that Kingdom of Happiness which dwells
within me, I would tell you that, if you would
enter into that abode, you must be free from all
fetters, you must destroy those cords of affliction
which bind you. For wherever a soul is bound by
affliction, by the cords of sorrow, he will be
unable to enter within himself, he will be unable
to see himself clearly. When he has renounced all
things, then he will be able to control his mind
and his heart, for the heart waiketh after the eye
and the mind followeth the heart. Unrest is con-
stant until there is this intense desire to discover
the Truth. Because you suffer from your own
actions, from your own desires, from your own
little knowledge, from your own little purposes,
your own little deceits and little conceits, because
you have not been able to rid yourselves of these,
you will never be able to enter into that Kingdom
which dwells within you.
There was a time when
Krishnamurti, as an individual, desired to find
Liberation, but, like all human beings, he was
caught in the wheel of his own desires, of his own
knowledge, of his own little conceits and
deceits. Because he desired to reach that
Truth which is the purpose of life, because he
desired to destroy that separateness which existed
between the Truth and his ignorance, he suffered,
he was bound to the wheel of birth and death.
32
r / But now he is consumed in the fire of Liberation
j and of Happiness, and exists no longer as a
\ separate being because his desires, his creations,
j his self-expression, have become those of his
I Beloved.
Because it has been my
purpose to show you that path of Liberation and
Happiness and to open your heart so that you
\ will enter into your own inward self and there
j discover the Truth, I would tell you that you must
1 renounce all things. You must renounce your
\ books — the books that bind you, the philosophies
j that restrict you, the works that encompass you.
/ You must give up your friends to enter within
. \ yourself, you must give up your families. If you
/ would go within and there discover the Truth as
1 a single star in the sky, you must give up your
gods, the rites they demand and the ceremonies
they require. For if you seek to enter with all
^ these burdens, you will be caught in their limita­
tions, you will be caught in the shrines in which
^ you worship, you will be held by superstitions, by
dogmas and by creeds, and to escape from these
very things you must renounce those things. I
i know it is easy and comforting to hide yourself
I behind books, behind philosophies, behind creeds
and dogmas, behind gods and behind ceremonies,
* but as long as you are held by them, you will be
limited, you will be bound and there will be
fleeting joys and sorrows. The moment you leave
these things behind — as a man passes through
a bank of clouds — and enter within and there
discover the Truth, you will become part of the
Truth. Then you will need no supports, no
crutches, but you will need strength, you will need
determination and ecstasy of purpose. You must
give up your narrowness, your pettiness, your
little knowledge, in order to understand the simple
truth. Because your mind is complicated, you
will make the Truth complicated; because you
have the knowledge of books and the authority
of books, you will give to that Truth the authority
and the knowledge of books.
So, friend, if you would
learn to seek that Truth, if you would enter into
that abode where lives the Truth like a flame that
is ever dancing, that is ever enticing you, that is
ever giving you energy to fulfil your purpose, you
must set aside all things, you must give up all
things and enter within. It is because it is so diffi­
cult to give up all things, because the Truth
is so difficult to conquer that you need crutches.
It is much easier to live in the secluded shrine
than to live in solitude, in loneliness on the
mountain-top. Though you may perceive the
mountain-top in moments of tranquillity, in
moments of peace, though you may occasionally
enter within your heart and there discover
the Truth for yourself, it requires great
determination to cling to that Truth, for the world
of unreality is much more real to those who have
not entered into the Kingdom of Happiness, who
have not tasted this freedom, and so you have to
be supported by those things which have no value.
But all things meet in the end; whether you come
from one shelter or another, you will come to
the same goal. And for those who have perceived
the end, it becomes their purpose, their determina­
tion, and their duty to go forth and give life to
those who have not yet seen, who have not yet
felt, who have not yet the knowledge of such
things.
A)
35
V
We have another evening
before this Camp is closed, and so I would desire
that you should comprehend that which I have
been explaining, before you leave. By now you
must have all perceived in what way the Truth
comes, where it lies and in what manner
you must proceed in order to find it. In the dis­
covering of that Truth you pray, naturally, for
comfort, but you should pray rather for under­
standing. For comfort passes, and understanding
remains, as understanding is the residue of ex­
perience, as it is the wisdom that comes from
maturity, from ripeness, from thought, from joys
and sorrows. Comfort is pleasant, comfort is
delectable, comfort is satisfying, but comfort does
not give substance, does not enrich the soul — it
merely stagnates, and forms a green scum over
the mind.
I have found my Libera­
tion and my Happiness through sorrow, through
suffering and experience, through setting aside all
things, through renouncing the gods I have
worshipped; and because of that finding I would
give.
Truth is generally not
understood. Those who would gaze upon the sun
need strong eyes, and there be very few who have
such strong eyes. They need coloured glasses
36 l
F
And because Truth is dazzling, because Truth is
r powerful, annihilating and yet constructive, you
do not desire Truth in all its nakedness, in all its
purity; so you clothe it, you call it by pretty-
I sounding names, so as to comfort yourselves in
those names. I know, as I have myself done it; it
has been my lot to deceive myself behind coloured
I glasses so as not to be dazzled; but I had to
\ remove those coloured glasses through sorrow,
I through suffering, through the desire and the
[ incessant prayer for understanding. Before you
* can 'find the Truth, you require a clear under­
standing, and with it Truth will come. I have
^ found the Truth which abides in everyone
and which abides in me; I have found that
Happiness which exists in all and in myself;
i I have found that Liberation which is in all and
I in myself; and if I am to give that Truth to.you,
I you must remove those glasses that you have
t coloured with prejudice, through little under-
U standing, through little sorrows, through little
pleasures.
. : You desire comfort, you
I desire substance, you desire knowledge and wis­
dom, but, friend, that knowledge, that substance,
that wisdom come only when you can behold the
j Truth in its entire nakedness, when you can be
with the Truth and abide with that Truth,
j \ those who would understand this Truth, this
I k th of Happiness and Liberation, must set aside
37
those things which they have accumulated, those J
things which have grown up and have hidden the
Truth during the past. I would that you could
find the Truth for yourself, the Truth of your
own understanding, of your own creation, which
is the same as ray understanding and my creation.
For authority is like a cloud. It darkens and it does
not clear, it hides the face of the mountain, and
hence that which you worship is hidden; but you
should have all things open, clear and precise in
your understanding. Then you will discover the
Truth.
38
There must not be in your
miftd the fear of missing something. Many people
are afraid, naturally, that because of their mis­
understanding or their lack of understanding of
the Truth, they will not see the glory of the
Beloved. But, friend, if ypu would see the glory,
if you would see the face of the Beloved, you
must have a pure heart and a tranquil mind. Then
you will have the power to discriminate, the power
to choose, the power to set aside those things
which are trivial, those things which are transient.
And so I would ask you
not to crave for comfort, but for understanding,
for with understanding you have judgment, with
understanding you have tolerance and affection;
without these, woe to the man who searches fori
Truth, for he will be bound by his own fetters. Scl
I would ask you to have understanding and no
a definite set of beliefs, of dogmas, of authorities,
of credulities. Then you will be able to help, then
you will be able to become the real disciples of the
Beloved, then you will have the Beloved with you.
Like everyone else Krishna-
murti, in the past, searched, obeyed and wor­
shipped, but as time grew, as suffering came, he
wanted to discover the reality which hides behind
the picture, behind the sunset, behind the image,
behind all philosophies, behind all religions, all
sects, all organisations, and to discover and to
understand that, he had to hang on to a peg of
unreality, of untruth, till, little by little, he was
able to pass all those'shrines that are limiting, that
are binding, all the gods that insist on worship.
In passing all those he was able to arrive where
all religions, where all affections are consum­
mated, where all worship ends, where all
desire ceases, where the separate self is purified
by being destroyed. It is because I have gone
through those stages that I am able to speak with
the authority of my own experience, with the
authority of my own knowledge, and I would give
to you of that knowledge, of that experience.
The guide knows the
short mountain-path, and though it be dangerous,
though there be great obstacles to climb, though
there be many pitfalls, if you would be as the
guide himself, you must follow the guide who
knows — follow not blindly, not superstitiously,
riot in credulity, but through your own desire to
find the Truth, through your own suffering,
through your own desire to set aside those things
which are fetters, which are holding you as cords
of affliction. So, if you would follow me into your
own hearts, where there lies this Truth, where
dwells the Beloved, you must have a mind that is .
trained through understanding, that is unpreju­
diced, that is not bound, that is not limited in
its vision of greatness. For prejudice hides and
does not make clear, prejudice is like the cloud
which hides the sun, and most people prefer to
dwell behind the cloud rather than in front of it
where there is no barrier between themselves and
the clear sun. So if you have a mind that is
without prejudice, that is not narrow, that is
understanding, Truth will come, Truth will invite
you into its abode, which is your own heart,
which is your own understanding.
Then you must have a
tranquil heart, a heart that is affectionate, yet
detached and impersonal. It is essential to love, for
through love you grow, you expand, you live as
the bird lives in the free air, joyous at all times.
So must be a heart which is full of affection, but
it must be detached, impersonal and able to give
its affection to all, and not to one individual alone,
or to one particular group.
Then you must have a
body made perfect with understanding; for
40
without a clean, fine body, there is ill-health. So
when you have the mind, the emotions and the
body in perfect cooperation, assisting each other,
developing each other, encouraging each other,
that veil which separates you from the Truth will
be destroyed. Then will come that which you
desire, the comfort of understanding, not the
comfort of stagnation. As on the pools in the
woods where there have not been many winds,
where the life has not been, where the birds do
not alight, you will find a green scum, you will
find that no animal comes to drink, that no human
being delights there, you will find that there is no
reflection of the heavens or of the open skies or of
the flying birds, so is the mind, so is the emotion,
so is the body which is comforted. But the moment
you desire to seek understanding, the moment you
desire to have that Truth within you, then you
are "as the dancing waters of the sea; you will
have your calmness, your moments of tranquillity,
but you will also be like the rivers that dance
down to the sea.
So those who follow the
Truth, which abides in me, must discover their
wisdom in their understanding, in their experience,
in their sorrows, and in their joys. Of what avail
is it to give a beautiful picture to a child? He
would little understand its beauty. But give it to
the real artist, give it to the man who has great
understanding of pictures, and he will appreciate it,
he will desire, not to copy, but to create it in him­
self, in his own fashion, in his own manner. Because °
you desire to copy, there is misery; because you b
desire authority, there is trouble; but if you desire s
to understand, if you desire to cooperate, if you s
desire to create in the light of that understanding, r
then you will not be troubled, then you will have e
found peace, then you will have established within £
you the delight of being ever with the Beloved.
And, friend, in this short time that we have been 1
together, some who have knowledge — not of ^
mysterious things — will have found understand­
ing; with them dwells the responsibility of co­
operating with that understanding. W hen within
you lies the glory of the Truth, you can develop
it fully, as the flame develops when you throw
logs of wood into it; or you can let that flame die
down and wait for an aeon, for centuries, to re­
kindle it so that it will give comfort, give warmth,
give substance to the mind, to the heart that
suffers.
VI
Once there was a moun­
tain whose head was hidden beyond the clouds;
around it there were vast plains, and valleys upon
valleys. In search of that mountain-top, people
gathered from all quarters of the world; people
of many nationalities and of many types came
there to discover the truth which the mountain
held. Some came to examine the flora and the fauna
of the mountain-side, others came to examine
scientifically its strata, its height and its width,
how much shadow it cast. People came to worship
it, to rejoice in its glory, to see it and to carry
back that memory to their homes and cherish it
in their hearts. Some came to paint it, some came
to photograph it, some came to take away little
bits of earth and stone from the mountain, some
came to perform ceremonies round about it, some
v
. came in order that they might tell of the truth of
that mountain to others, some came and talked
and heard their own echo — their laughter
reached their own ears, back from the mountain.
Others came wanting
knowledge, and. desiring that the mountain should
give them the solution for all their troubles. But its
head was beyond the clouds, nearer the heavens,
and there were very few who had climbed to the
very top and who beheld from there the full
view of all the peoples, all the temperaments,
all the valleys and all the plains. So is Truth.
You who have gathered
here from forty different countries, have com
e
to worship the Truth, to discover the Truth,
but you have come with your own under­
standings, with your own doubts, with your
own encouragements, with your own wisdom,
to discover, to understand, that which I have
been holding up to you. You have come to see
me, the Truth, and you have come partly under­
standing, partly prejudiced, partly judging, partly
perverting the Truth. He needs to be a strong
man who would climb the mountain-top, who
would understand the entire Truth in all its
nakedness, in all its perfection. He needs to have
a strong heart and a strong mind to contain it and
to hold it, and strong eyes to see the vision, to
see the glory of that Truth. People who come to
worship an image, to worship the rocks of the
mountain, only perceive a part of it and then
return home convinced in their own little under­
standings, in their own little knowledge, in their
own little wisdom. But unless you have the entire
Truth, the absolute Truth in all its profundity, in
all its simplicity, you are not the Truth. The part
does not make the entire Truth; one aspect of the
Truth does not give the full understanding of the
whole Truth.
I have been desiring to
give you the full Truth which abides within me,
44
• and which I have learned, through centuries,
through many lives, to conquer and to establish
well in my heart. You have come from different
lands, with your different temperaments, with
your different understandings, with your different
wisdoms, and before you can accept this Truth
fully, before you can understand it in all its
nakedness, in all its simplicity, there must be
purity of mind and tranquillity of heart. You all
desire immediate solutions for your passing
shadows of sufferings, passing shadows of afflic­
tions, passing shadows of joys, and because the
solution is never without, but is of your own
understanding, of your own knowledge, of your
own wisdom that abides within you, you are
disappointed. Because you cannot understand the
Truth in its entirety, there is puzzlement, there is
confusion, there is questioning, there is doubt. You
want all your sorrows, all your griefs, all your
accumulations of ages to be swept aside by one
brief momentary glimpse of the Truth. How can
you keep the river clean, pure, undefiled, if the
source is sullied? So you must return to the
source and there begin anew, begin again to tread
the very stages that you have already trodden;
go over them in your minds, interpret them anew,
so that you will grow straight as the fir tree on
the mountain-top in solitude and in firmness. But
this requires complete renunciation, your going
through greater sorrows, greater pleasures and
mmmm 4 5
greater ecstasies, if you would arrive at that
mountain-top which holds its head above the
clouds of human understanding. So you have to
begin where all people begin, for there only lies
knowledge, there lies wisdom, there lies under­
standing which is in the mind and in the heart.
If you have not a pure mind and a clean heart,
if you have not a njind that has understanding
and a heart that is sympathetic and affectionate,
then whatever authority, whatever knowledge of
books or of persons you may possess, it will all
wither away as the leaf in the autumn.
So those who would climb
to the heights of understanding and of Truth in
all its fullness, in all its greatness and simplicity,
must keep their minds and their hearts clean,
strong and perfect. To do that you must watch,
examine, criticise yourself and change constantly.
You must needs be a strong man, you must needs
be a man that is experienced in wisdom, before
you can understand Truth in its fullness, in its
greatness. If you would climb to those heights
where lies the Truth, you must watch all your
actions, you must watch all your thoughts, you
must watch all your affections, for they are limit­
ing if they are not clean, if they are not pure, if
they are not strong in proportion to the Truth.
And who can help the weak man to climb to the
mountain-top? He can only help himself, he can
only gather strength to climb, from within himself.
And so those who would desire the Truth that
will destroy their sorrows, their fleeting affections,
their passing desires and impermanent afflictions,
must possess a strong, pure and clean heart. You
must have wisdom, you must have experience,
you must have the intuition that guides, and if
you have not those, many suns will set, many
years will pass, before you can perceive the Truth,
And. to acquire these, you must doubt, you must
question every action, every thought that springs
within you, and never be satisfied until you have
gained that Truth which abides within you, till
you are certain of your own Truth, till there is
this certainty which is born out of great uncer­
tainty — uncertainty of your purpose, uncertainty
of your goal, uncertainty of your determination.
Out of these uncertainties, immense, strong, pur­
poseful certainty will be born.
Likewise beware of
authority. Authority may comfort for a moment,
but it is not the Truth, it is not lasting, it
is not permanent; it is like the cloud across
the fair sky, it passeth away and you are
left naked, burning in the brilliant sun. So if
you would have that knowledge which is your
own, which is of your own creation, which is the
outcome of your own experience, then you must
go within, cleanse yourself of all those things
which you have accumulated, cleanse yourself of
those impurities; and, little by little, as the sun rises
in the morning and disperses the mist by its warm
rays, so in you there will be born the strength, the
determination, the purpose to achieve the moun~
tain-top. And there lies the only comfort, for what
you gather from your own experience, from your
own knowledge, is lasting, is permanent; and
nobody, whoever he may be, can destroy that
which you have created with your own hands,
with your own sufferings, with your own afflic­
tions. Out of that comes the desire to live nobly;
for who can give the desire to live nobly except
yourself? W hat heart, except his own, can prompt
and urge a human being to tread the path of peace,
the path of Liberation and of Happiness? Others
may encourage, others may discourage, but in you
alone lies the power to tread, in you alone lies
the determination, in you alone lies the wisdom.
If you would attain that Truth, if you would
become perfect in the knowledge of that Truth,
you must go through this process of renunciation,
setting aside those things which have no value,
putting aside your little knowledge in order to
acquire greater knowledge, putting aside your
little wisdom in order to acquire greater wisdom;
and so when you reach the abQde where there is
no cloud of doubt, of misjudgment, where there is
no question of perverting judgment, or of false
thoughts, of false emotions, of fleeting affections,
then you are truly in possession of the Truth, then
truly are you like myself — the Beloved.
So those who have come
from far-off lands to worship the mountain, will
worship it, will photograph it, will carry away the
earth and the stone which they have gathered,
will "examine the fairies, the angels, round about
the mountain; but those who have climbed to the
top will become the mountain, those who have
reached the summit will know the delight of
helping, of giving, of liberating others.
So, friends, you who have
gathered from different nations to worship the
mountain, should beware of what you take back;
beware whether it be part of the Truth, or the
full Truth. If it be a part, then let there be a
burning desire within you to reach the very moun­
tain-top, to become the Beloved, to become the
Truth itself. And when you have reached that
stage, as I have, when you have become the
Beloved, as I have, then you will be able to give
those waters of life that are eternal, then you
will be able to satisfy the thirsty, then you will
be able to give balm to the afflicted, then you will
be the redeemers of the world. You are all walking
by the light of the candle, but because I hold you
in my heart, I would give you the light of the sun.
Now, this is our last
evening, and you are all going away to different
countries with part of the Truth; you are going
away with greater burdens than you know of,
you are going away to enrich your own lives and
the lives of others. W ith a sun in your heart, with
delight in your mind, you must create those things
which are lasting, those things which will give
eternal comfort to others. For one who has
reached Liberation, for one who has achieved, for
one who is in full possession of the Truth, there
is no sorrow in parting. And because in me you
all exist, for me there is no separation; but because
you do not possess me, for you there is separation
and sorrow. There is separation for those who,
because of their little understanding of Truth,
have not conquered the Truth, have not
become part of the Truth. But if you bear
that Truth in your heart, if you bear me, who am
the end of all search, in your heart, then there will
be no separation. In that strife, in that struggle to
attain the mountain-top, there is unity both in
affliction and in joy. So, friend, wherever you may
go, if you have that Truth, you will not be lonely,
you will not be depressed, you will need no com- \
fort from without, you will need no truth except 4
this one Truth.
