{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__kingsland___was_she_a_charlatan.pdf","mytitle":"Was She A Charlatan","mylang":"de"}
A CH.ARLATAN ?
A Critical Analysis
of the 1885 Report
OF THS
Society for Psychical Research
on the Phenomena connected with
Mme. H.
WILLIAM KINGSLAND
•
PRICE:
One Shilling and Six Pence Net
LONDON:
-, THE BLAVATSKY ASSOCIATION
26, BEDFORD GARDENS., W.8
CONTENTS
PREFACE
THE REPORT: INTRODUCTORY
THE REPORT : MR. HODGSON
THE REPORT : THE COULOMBS
THE REPORT : THE ' SHRINE ' PHENOMENA
nm REPORT : THE HANDWRITING EVIDENCE
M. SOLOVYOFF AND ' A MODERN PRIESTESS OF ISIS '
THE REPORT: CONCLUSIONS
CONCLUDING REMARKS
3
PAGE
5
I2
r6
28
34
39
45
50
PREFACE
I HAVE been asked by the Council of the BLAVATSKY
ASSOCIATION
to write for them a concise analysis of the 1885
Report of the Society for Psychical Research '' on the pheno-
mena connected with the Theosophical Society "-otherwise, the
. phenomena associated with the personality ofMme.H.P. Blavatsky.
I have undertaken to do this with great reluctance and
distaste-but nevertheless with a somewhat strong inner urge-
for several reasons. In the first place, the Report is now prac-
tically out of date, and it seems rather late in the day to write
about it at all ; so much has happened since then in the spread
of the Theosophical Movement which Mme. Blavatsky inaugur.-
ated that the conclusions of the Report, and the prophecies
which the Committee who drew it up ventured to make, are
already falsified; whilst psychical research has itself made such
progress as to place the phenomena on a much more credible
basis to-day than was the case forty years ago.
At the time the Report was issued Mme. Blavatsky had
not written The Sectet Doctrine, The Key to Theosophy, or The
Voice of the Silence. Moreover, we have recently come into
possession of a large volume of The Letters of the Mahatma,s to
A. P. Sinmett, and also the letters of Mme. Blavatsky herself
to Mr. Sinnett. These throw a flood of light upon many incidents
which were previously obscure.
In the second place, the Report has only an indirect bearing
on the teachings oi Theosophy : these teachings being what I
was in the first instance-and am to the last-interested in;
the phenomena, and even the personality of the teacher being to·
me at that time of quite secondary importance; as, indeed, they
must necessarily lDeto-day for all those whose lives have been
so profoundly influenced by these teachings, and who did not
know Mme. Blavatsky personally. Moreover1 as Mahatma
'M' says in one of his letters to A. P. Sinnett (p. 262): "If our
philos0phy is wrong a wonderwill n0t set it right." And we might
paraphrase this and say: If the philosophy is right, a bogus
wonder will not make it wrong.
The S.P.R. Rep0rt cannot to-day-nor indeed did it at that
time-make any c;lifferenceto those for whom Theosophy, the
Ancient Wisdom Religion, has lDeenthe great TRUTH which has not
6 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN.?
merely presented the only rational solution of the more intel-
lectual problems of life, but which has also appealed. t? their
deeper intuitions in a strange, mysterious manner, as 1f it were
the recovery of a knowledge attained in far back incarnations,
and now happily once more discovered.
In the third place, the H. P. Blavatsky whom I knew
personally was certainly not the " accomplished impostor "
presented to us in the S.P.R. Report; and I was absolutely un-
acquainted with the Mme.Blavatsky presented to us in Solovyoff's
book, A Modern Priestess of Isis, to which I shall make a
short reference later on, since the S.P.R. saw fit, ten years
after their own Report was issued, to endeavour to bolster up
their case by sponsoring Solovyoff's book : their Report by itself
having entirely failed to bring about the collapse of the Theo-
sophical Movement.
If such a personality as is presented in these two documents
ever existed, she must have utterly vanished by the time I came
to know the author of The Secret Doctrine and Tlie Voice of t!ie
Silence, etc.
Nevertheless, the Report and the book are even now sometimes
quoted as having definitely proved that the psychic phenomena
associated with Mme. Blavatsky were entirely fraudulent ; and
also that the Masters or Mahatmas from whom she claimed to
have received her teachings were her own invention, and do not,
in fact, exist.
I shall show that the Report does not prove by any evidence
that would be accepted in a court of law either the one or other
of these assumptions. As for Solovyoff's book-that shall speak
for itself later on.
I have fou~d, on making a close analysis of the Report for the
purpose of this monograph, that there are several vital discrep·
ancies in it which previous critics on behalf of Mme. Blavatsky
appear to _haveoverlooked; and it may be as well for the sake
of postenty,_ as also for our present purpose, since Mme.
Blavatsky will undoubtedly be for posterity one of the most
n?table characters ~~ the nineteenth century-" the sphinx of the
nmeteenth century -to place on record in a concise form a
c~t~c~lsurvey of this da~natory Report. The only other concise
cnbc1sm at present available is that of Mrs. Annie :Besant,
published_in r907 under th~ title ofH. P. Blavatsky and the Masters
of the ~isd~tn. The r~plies which were made to the Report
at the bm~ 1t was published are more or less scattered in bookS
and magazines.
PREFACE 7
The attacks which are made to-day on the character and work
of the founder of the Theosophical Movement emanate princi-
pally from so-called ' Christian' arid ' Spiritualistic' sources ;
but it is seldom that the teachings themselves are impugned.
It is apparently thought by these detractors that if they only
throw sufficient mud at the woman who gave the teachings to
the world they are thereby amply discrediting the teachings
themselves. But if any one wishes to prove that Shakespeare
wrote bad plays, or Wagner bad music, he surely does not do so
by endeavouring to prove that the one was once a poacher and
the other an immoral man.
I have often been aghast at the freedom with which some of
these detractors, even so-called ' dignitaries ' of the Church, have
not hesitated to slander and vilify a dead woman by repeating
statements which have been amply refuted over and over again,
and which in any case the recognized code of decent respect for
the dead-not to mention the Karmic Law, "judge not that ye
be not judged", and, for all those who call themselves Christians
at all events, the precepts and example of Jesus Christ Himself-
should have prevented them from doing. When these detractors
have been challenged to show-apart from the promulgation of
the teachings which they dislike-what evil Mme. Blavatsky
did, they have been silent.
My own association with Mme. Blavatsky commenced in
1888, after the S.P.R. Report had been published nearly three
years. She was then permanently settled in London-the head-
quarters of the enemy-and had gathered round her a devoted
and highly intellectual group of workers in the cause of Theosophy.
I never saw her perform any phenomena, nor did I ever ask her
to perform any. I did not see how any of the phenomena she
was reputed to have performed could be any evidence of the
truth of the teachings, though they might possibly have gone to
prove the existence of the Masters, as also the fact that every
individual possesses unknown and undeveloped psychic faculties
and powers. This, as I have said above, has since been amply
proved by psychical research itself. I did consider, howe'Ver,
in spite of the S.P.R. Report, that her phenomenal powers had
been fully testified by a very large number of credible witnesses.
I naturally held in reserve a great many conclusions when I first
made her acquaintance; but I have never seen any reason to go
back on my first favourable impressions; and I have since then
made the philosophy which I leamt from her the basis of all my
own literary work during the last thirty-five years.
8 vVAS SHE A CHARLATAN ?
For the purpose of this monograph I have made a much _closer
study and analysis of the S.P.R. Rep~rt than I_had prev10~sly
done. I not merely find nothing therein to modify my l?rev10us
conclusions, but more and more as I have proceeded with that
analysis I have perceived that the Report is a colossal example
of suppressioveri, suggestio
Jals£.
The Report is drawn up with such a plausible appearance of
exhaustive investigation that it is difficult for those who have
not a more extended knowledge of the facts than is presented
therein to recognize the specious nature of the ' evidence ' put
forward, and how much has really been suppressed. But I do
not see how any one can make a really critical study of it without
recognizing the fact that it is simply a brief for the prosecution.
The history of our law courts is full of cases which show how
easily a prosecution can twist circumstances and events into an
apparently damning indictment.
But even further than that, the Committee of the S.P.R closed
the· case after receiving Mr. Hodgson's Report of his visit to
India ; in other words, the Committee closed the case after hearing
the speech of the counsel for the prosecution. On page 205 they
say: "After examining Mr. Hodgson's Report of the results of
his personal inquiries, they are of opinion that the testimony
to these marvels is in no case sufficient, taking amount and
character together, to resist the force of the general presumption
above mentioned." This 'presumption' was: "That all the
marvellous narratives put forward as evidence of the existence
and occult power of the Mahatmas are to be explained as due
either (a) to deliberate deception carried out by or at the insti-
gation of Madame Blavatsky, or {b)to spontaneous illusion, or
hallucination, or unconscious misrepresentation or invention on
the part of the witnesses."
Well, if they had stopped there, and had left every one to
form their own opinion from the Report, there might have been
less to be said. But as a matter of fact they go far beyond this
in the last paragraph of their statement, and definitely brand
Mme. Blavatsky as an impostor. Moreover, they never gave 1
her or any one else a chance of seeing the Report and replying
to it before they published it. They did not even submit to the
defence the alleged forged letters from Mme. Blavatsky to
Mme. Coulomb on which so much of their ' evidence ' rests.
What would be thought of such a procedure in a court of law?
A detailed analysis of the Report would fill a large volume,
and certainly would not be read to any extent ; nor do I suppose
PREFACE 9
for one moment that it would serve to convince those who do
not wish to be convinced. I shall therefore confine myself in
this monograph to showing as concisely as possible, in the first
place, that the Report proves nothing by any evidence that would
be accepted in a co1.1rtof law ; and that in fact it is simply a
mass of conjectures and theories, in many cases too absurd to be
considered for a moment ; and in the second place I shall show
that even if fraud could be said to have been proved in one or
two instances, the sweeping inferences which are drawn therefrom
go far beyond their legitimate bearing, and do not in any case
touch the great work which Mme. Blavatsky accomplished in
the literature which she gave to the world in Isis Unveiled, The
Secret Doctrine, The Key to Tlteosopliy, and The Voice of the
Silence. It is by that literature and its gradual acceptance as
being a fresh inflow of spiritual teaching at a time when the
world was drifting into materia.lism, and not by the S.P.R.
Report, that H. P. Blavatsky will be judged by posterity. And
though for a long time to come there must necessarily be many
who cannot accept the teachings contained in her works, and
who will doubtless continue to denounce these teachings because
they may appear to nm counter to their own religious or other
prejudices, yet I may perhaps hope that this analysis will do
something to check the reckless use of the S.P.R. Report as if it
were an infallible document. I trust also that it will help to
dissociate entirely the phenomenal and merely personal aspects
0£ Mme. Blavatsky's life from the teachings and literary work
which she gave to the world, and which will most assuredly as
time goes on place her name amongst those of the world's great
light-bringers.
If, as is most probable, when all is said and done, those who
wish to accept the conclusions of the S.P.R. Report will still
continue to do so, then we must say to them: Very well, you
have still to account for the greatest of all the phenomena, the
production by this same woman whom you denounce as a fraud
and a charlatan of the literature I have named; and more
particularly the production by a broken-down worn-out woman,
who ought physically to have died years previously, of that great
work The SecretDoctrine. This was perhaps the greatest wonder
of all in the life of this wonderful woman. We have it on indis-
putable evidence that she was at least three times restored to
life, when practically dead, by the direct presence and acti0n of
her Master. This, and her own indomitable will to write The
Secret Doctrine. and to carry her work thrnugh to the farthest
2
10 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
possible point before giving in, kept l~ernot mere!y alive, bu~ at
her desk from morning to night in spite of a contmuous physical
martyrdom. You have either to solve the psychological problem
as to how Mme. Blavatsky the ' charlatan ' could be the same
perso
1t as the Mme. Blavatsky who wrote that work, or else
you must fall back upon some double personality theory, and
acknowledge that there is no connexion whatever between the
one person and the other ; between the phenomena which you
say were fraudulent, and which the Society for Psychical Research
did not witness, and the greater phenomenon of The Secret
Doctri.newhich stands visibly before your eyes.
But there is possibly even a greater difficulty than that for
critics and detractors to solve. How is it that notwithstanding
the S.P.R. Report Mme. Blavatsky was able to settle in
London, and to gather round her a devoted band of men and
women of character, ofpublic standing, and scholarly and literary
ability?
Perhaps the best answer of all to anything that can be said
or written in reply to the S.P.R. Report is the symposium issued
soon after Mme. Blavatsky's death in 1891, and entitled In
Memory of Helena PetrovnaBlavatsky, by Some of Her Pupils.
There are twenty-three personal records in that book, besides
other matter to which one can pass from the S.P.R. Report and
Solovyoff'sbook as one might pass after stumbling in the darkness
of a primeval forest through slimy bogs into brilliant sunshine,
and find one's feet on firm ground.
I can only instance two cases from this symposium, since they
bear directly upon the question of the validity of the S.P.R.
Report. These two cases are those of Mrs. Annie Besant and
Mr. Herbert Burrows. It is well known that these two were
closely associated in Socialistic work and agnostic propaganda.
To join the Theosophical Society, as they did together in 1889,
was practically to turn their backs on all their past efforts and
their. present ~s~ociates. Yet they took the step becauseof the
teachings. This 1swhat Mr. Burrows says of his early impressions
of H. P. Blavatsky :
" I caught glimpses of a lofty morality t of a self-sacrificing 1
zeal, of a coherent philosophy of life, of a clear and definite
science of man and his relations to a spiritual universe. These
it was which attracted me-not phenomena, for I saw none. . . .
Quickly I learned that the so-called charlatan and trickster was
a noble soul."
Well, before Mme. Blavatsky would accept these two as
j
PREFACE 11
members of the Theosophical Society she told them to go and
read the S.P.R. Report. This is what Mr. Burrows says of this
in another place (Isis Very iVfoch Unveiled, p. 8r) :
" We read it separately, analysed it-and joined. I brought to it
my Civil Service training, what business faculties I had, and a fair
knowledge of the laws of evidence. I am a sceptic by nature, and I
was then a materialist, and the honest conclusion that I came to was
that the case for the prosecution was far too weak to warrant a con-
viction. That opinion I still hold. I suppose that nine out of ten
people who talk glibly about the Report have never seen even the
covers of it."
I may add to the above one more testimony, a quite recent
one. Mr. G. R. S. Mead, the well-known scholar, and for seven-
teen years editor of The Quest Quarterly Review, was intimately
associated with Mme. Blavatsky during the last three years
of her life, having given up his profession of teaching to work
with her. This is what he says in The Q-uest, April 1926:
" Whatever else Yelena Petrovna was . . . she was not, within
my experience at any rate, the vulgar trickster and charlatan of
hostile popular legend. I do not of course know what happened when
I was not there; but then nearly all of her accusers are equally in the
same boat."
I wish to add here that all that I am saying in this analysis
to discredit the S.P.R. Report does not mean that I unhesitatingly
accept each and all of the phenomena dealt with in that Report
as having actually occurred as testified by those who witnessed
them. I am no more in a position to prove that they did than
Mr. Hodgson was to prove that they did not ; and as I have said
above, I do not really concern myself as to whether they did
or did not.
THE REPORT: INTRODUCTORY
The following is quoted from the Proceedingsof the Society,
Part IX, pecember r885, p. 2or ff. •This number of th~ Pro-
ceedings also contains the fu~ Report made by Mr. ~1chard
Hodgson after his visit to India, November. r_8~4to Apr~l r88?,
and which is mainly the subject of the cnhc1sm contained m
the following pages :
"In May 1884 the Council of the Sociely for Psychical Research
appointed a Committee for the purpose of taking such evidence as to
the alleged phenomena connected with the Theosophical Society as
might be offered by members of that body at the time in England, or
as could be collected elsewhere.
"The Committee consisted of the following members, with power
to add to their number: :Messrs.E. Gurney, F. vV. H. Myers, F.
Podmore, H. Sidgwick, and J. H. Stack. They have since -added
Mr. R. Hodgson and 1\frs.Sidgwick to their number."
After stating that the Committee had the opportunity of
examining Col. Olcott and Mme. Blavatsky, as well as several
other members of the Society, the Report goes on to say (p. 203) :
" In December 1884 the Committee considered that the time had
come to issue a preliminary and provisional Report .... The con-
clusion then come to was expressed as follows: On the whole (though
with some serious reserves) it seems undeniable that there is a prinia
facie case, for some part, at least, of the claim made, which, at the
point which the investigations of the Society have now reached, cannot,
with consistency, be ignored."
Aceordingly, Mr. R. Hodgson was sent to India to continue
the investigations. Mr. Hodgson's instructions were: in the
first place to ascertain if possible the genuineness of the letterS
said to have been written by Mme. Blavatsky to M. and
Mme. Coulomb, portions of which had been published in
The Madras Christian College Magazine for September and '
October 1884; or whether, as stated by Mme. Blavatsky and
other Theosophists, these letters were forgeries.
M. and Mme. Coulomb, it may be explained ,here, had
previously occupied a position of trust at the head-quarters oJ
the Theosophical Society in Bombay and Madras, but were
12
REPORT: INTRODUCTORY 13
expelled in May 1884 for very substantial reasons, which will
appear later on (p. 29).
In the second place, Mr. Hodgson was instructed (p. 204) :
"by cross-examination and otherwise to obtain evidence which might
assist the Committee in judging of the value to be attached to the
testimony of some of the principal witnesses; that he should examine
localities where phenomena had occurred, with a view to ascertaining
whether the explanations by trickery, that suggested themselves to
the Committee, or any other such explanations, were possible; and
in particular, as already said, that he should, as far as possible, verify
the statements of the Coulombs with a view to judging whether their
explanations of the phenomena were plausible. For it is obvious that
no value for the purpose of psychical research can be attached to pheno-
mena where persons like the Coulombs have been concerned, if it can
be plausibly shown that they ·might themselves have produced them :
while at the same time, their unsupported assertion that they did
produce them, cannot-be taken by itself as evidence" (Italics mine).
With this latter paragraph I am in full agreement; but I
must remark here, in the first place, that the Report does not
contain a single scrap of evidence which would be accepted in a
court of law as proof that the phenomena were actually produced
as stated by the Coulombs; and in the second place, that there
is altogether lacking in the Report any evidem:ethat Mr. Hodgson
did subject the Coulombs to the severe examination required,
"where persons like the Coulombs are concerned." Indeed, I
may say here, and I shall show later on, that when the whole
Report is boiled down and strained out there is not a single
witness, according to Mr. Hodgson, in the whole case whose
evidence is worth anything except the Coulonibs l
In quoting the above paragraph I have italicized the words
' possible ', ' plausible ', and ' might ', for this reason : the proof
that a certain explanation of a phenomenon ispossible or plausible
is not proof that it did take place in that manner. There is a
vast difference b~tween mere assumption and actual proof, and
though we may agree that '' for the purposes ofpsychical research "
a phenomenon cannot be said to be of any evidential value when
a purely physical explanation is possible, that is quite a different
matter from branding a woman as a fraud and a charla:tan on
the basis of these ' possible ' or ' plausible ' explanations.
In this respect, therefore, the Committee went far beyond
the limits of what they themselves professed to be their objective,
viz. to ascertain whether there might be ' possible ' or ' plausible '
explanations of the phenomena which would put them out of
14 vVAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
court for the purpose of psychical research. The utmost verdict
of the S.P.R. should have been, 'not proven'; with every one
left free to form their own opinions from the Report itself and the
replies which were published thereto. These replies ought' in
fact to have appeared with the Report. Without them it is
simply a statement for the prosecution, with an endeavour to
twist every incident and every witness into a pre-judged verdict.
Unfortunately those who read (?) the Report, seldom if ever have
the replies before them.
The pages of the Report are almost as freely besprinkled with
'if', and 'might', and 'possibly', and 'probably', etc., etc.,
as there are full-stops on a page.
One very general misconception about the Report whi~h
appears to prevail among those who make use of it, even in the
present day, may be corrected here. It would appear from what
I have already quoted from the Report itself as to its scope that
neither Mr. Hodgson nor any member of the Committee witnessed
the actual phenomena with which the Report deals. The
phenomena themselves took place from one to four years before
Mr. Hodgson went to India.
Now the Report is entitled: "REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE
APPOINTED TO INVESTIGATE PHENOMENA CONNECTED WITH THE
THEOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY."
But:
(r) The Society never investigated the phenomena.
(2) It delegated the work to a Committee.
(3) The Committee never investigated the phenomena.
(4) The Committee delegated the work to Mr. Hodgson to
investigate the evidence for, phenomena which had
taken place years previously.
(5) Mr. Hodgson, therefore, did not investigate the pheno-
mena.
.. Consequently, the very title on the Report is misleading, for
th': phen_omena
connected with the Theosophical Society" were
no~ mvestigated at all. What was investigated was simply the
eVJdenceof persons said to have witnessed the phenomena· and
what the Committee really endeavoured to do-as is sho~n by
the words of the _Reportitself-was to find ' plausible ' theories
whereby the genume nature of the phenomena could be explained
away. To what lengths this plausibility goes will appear in due
course.
The Report is by no means an easy one to assimilate in all its
REPORT: INTRODUCTORY 15
details ; the real 1:nwardnessof it-perhaps I should rather say
the real shallownessof it-is so wrapped up in a mass of' plausible'
assumptions that it is not easy to disentangle the really important
from the spurious and irrelevant matter.
One can very well understand that a reader already prejudiced
against Mme. Blavatsky, or against Theosophy itself, would not
merely accept with satisfaction, but without any critical judg-
ment, the seemingly ' plausible ' conclusions of the Committee,
but would also readily be able to pick out here and there sentences
which lend themselves to a cheap and vulgar ridicule. I do not
suppose that one in ten of Mme. Blavatsky's critics and detractors
who have quoted from this Report have taken the trouble to
read it from beginning to end, much less to analyse it, or to
apply to it the recognized principles of legal evidence.
It is, in fact, only by patient and detailed analysis that the
evidence-or rather the lack of any real evidence-for the
conclusions formed, the bias of the investigator, and the irrele-
vancy of many of the conclusions, are brought to light. I may
go further and say, that but for my own intimate knowledge of
much that has been left out of the Report I should not have been
able to appreciate or evaluate its spurious character.
Apart from that, however, when one patiently endeavours to
evaluate the weight of evidence on the one side or the other, the
amazing conclusion dawns upon one that, accordingto the Report
the only credible witnesses are the witnesses for the prosecution.
The manner in which Mr. Hodgson endeavours to discredit the
theosophical witnesses, the trifling inconsistencies which he lays
hold of and magnifies for this purpose, will be shown presently ;
but there is an entire absence from the Report of any similar
effort to discredit the evidence of the Coulombs, who, 0£ all the
witnesses, are the most to be distrusted, since their evidence was
given out of reyenge, and they were paid by the missionaries for
their Judas betrayal of their benefactor, Mme. Blavatsky.
As a final instance of the way in which all evidence for the
defence was treated, I may say that the letters which Mme.
Coulomb said she had received from Mme. Blavatsky, and which
Mme. Blavatsky said were forgeries, were withheld by the
Committee of the S.P.R., and neither Mme. Blavatsky nor any
other Theosophists were ever allowed to see them.
THE REPORT: MR. HODGSON
Mr. Richard Hodgson, B.A., was a young man of whose
qualifications for the task entrusted to him by the ~.P.R. it is
not possible to say anything except what one m~y. Judge from
the Report itself. He appears to have had an unlimited amount
of self-confidence, and we must at least credit him with a con-
siderable capacity for painstaking detail; but he does not appear
to have had any acquaintance with the laws of evidence, and
still less with the nature of the occult phenomena with which he
was called upon to deal. Psychical research at that time had
not accumulated the evidence for the possibility of the genuine-
ness of the phenomena which is available to-day. In The Occult
Review for April r923 Mr. Ralph Shirley, the editor, writes as
follows:
"It was many years after this (S.P.R. Report) when the S.P.R.
came to learn, in the case of Eusapia Palladino, that even consistent
trickery maygohand in hand with occultphenomenawhichwillstand
the most rigid investigation, and found themselves compelled to
recant in Eusapia's favour an earlier adverse decision. But in the
caseof Mme.Blavatsky, a far more complexcharacter and a far more
remarkablepersonalityhad to be dealt with, and neither Mr.Hodgson
nor probablyany other membersof the Societyin question were equal
to tacklingso profound a psychologicalproblem."
Mr. Sinnett, in his reply to the S.P.R. Report,1 points out
also that Mr. Hodgson was totally unfamiliar with the native
mind in relation to the occult matters with which Theosophy was
dealing ; that they strongly resented any attempt by Europeans
to obtain admittance into the inner arcana of Eastern Occultism,
and would in fact do all in their power to throw dust in the eyes
of" an exceedinglyself-reliant young man from England attempt-
ing the investigation ~f occult mysteries by the methods of a
Scotland Yar~ detective." This will largely aecount for :Mr,
Hodgson havmg found the native witnesses so unreliable:
witnesses in respect of whom, as Mr. Sinnett says, he should
~ave been particularly on his guard. Mr. Hodgson went to India
m November r884, and returned to England in April 1885 (p. 203)·
Mr. Hodgson's examination of witnesses and the whole 1
I
1
See b1~de11tsin tlie Life of Madame Blavatsky, p. 306.
16 j
REPORT: lVIR. HODGSON 17
method of his procedure is so absolutely one-sided that we cannot
admit his preliminary claim to be completely impartial; nor can
we admit that his acceptance of telepathy as a proved fact
constituted any qualification or 'safeguard' (p. 208) against
prejudice. As a !'natter of fact he does not once mention telepathy
as a possible explanation of some of the phenomena, though
Mrs. Sidgwick does so when she wishes to d·iscredit a certain
phenomenon (seep. 395).
Let us see, however, to what extent Mr. Hodgson's own
statements are to be relied on.
On pp. 357, 358 of the Report we find a statement by Mr.
Mohini M. Chatterji to the effect that on one occasion when with
Mme. Blavatsky he had heard the direct voice of one of the
Masters speaking from another part of the room, and that he
had heard Mme. Blavatsky speaking at the same time, so that
it could not have been ventriloquism on her part. Commenting
on this Mr. Hodgson says : " Concerning this incident, I need
only remind the reader of the hollow in the wall, which was near
the• corner of Mme. Blavatsky's room. The confederate 1-nay
have been [italics mine] Babula, previously instructed in the
reply, and with a mango leaf in his mouth to disguise his voice."
Really ! How very simple, how very ' easy ' to explain the
matter away thus ! It is a good sample of all his ' explanations ' ;
but what is it worth as evidence of fraud ? Less than nothing,
for it is a sitggestio falsi. The joke of the matter is that the
phenomenon did not take place at Adyar, where Mme.Blavatsky's
room had a "hollow in the wall" and a confederate who could
speak " with a mango leaf in his mouth ". It took place at
Darjeeting.1 But then of course there -might have been more
contederates and more mango leaves there I They appear
according to Mr. Hodgson's account to have existed all over
India, whether Mme. Blavatsky was on the spot or thousands of
miles away. We shall come across one presently even riding out
of Tibet into Sikkhim to personate a Mahatma.
That Mr. Hodgso:n's own statements are not to be relied on
may be further sh0wn in one very important matter. I shall in
fact show that in this case we must-if we apply Mr. Hodgson's
ownmethods and language-accuse him of" a wilful and deliber.ate
falsehood" (p. 230). This is a phrase which he uses in connexion
with the evidence of Mr. Damodar K. Mavalankar, a witness he
particularly desires to discredit, and which related to the question
1 Sec A. P. Sinnett's The Occult World Phenomena a11dt!ie S.P.R. George
Redway. 1886.
3
18 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
as to who had charge of the keys of Mme. Blavatsky's rooms when
she was at Ootacamund in 1883. On one occasion Mr. Damodar
had said the keys were in his possession ; on another occasion
he said that they were in the possession of the Coulombs. It is
the first of these statements that Mr. Hodgson characterizes as
a " wilful and deliberate falsehood".
Now, it so happens that this same question as to the possession
of the keys of Mme. Blavatsky's rooms comes up later in the
Report with reference to the interval between Mme. Blavatsky
leaving Adyar in February 1884and the dismissal of the Coulombs
in the following May. This interval is the one during which the
Theosophical Board of Control said that M. Coulomb had con-
structed the various contrivances in the Occult Room and in
Mme. Blavatsky's room which were afterwards asserted by them
to have been used for the production of bogus phenomena. It is
Mr. Ho<lgson'sendeavour to show-as counsel for the prosecution
-that M.Coulomb could not have constructed these contrivances
during the time stated. This is what he says (p. 340)-:-the
italics are mine :
" Nowit wouldappear that after Mme.Blavatsky's departure from
head-quartersin r884, the OccultRoomand the Shrine werein charge
of Mr. Damodar(seeAppendix XI); and moreover it is apparent/ly,
not denied by the Theosophists that workmen were about on the
terraceduring the interval assignedto M. Coulombfor his secret work,
and accordingto Mr. Damoda.r
the door of the stairs was at all times
open. If M.Coulombunder these circumstances could, without the
knowledgeof any persons at head-quarters, have constructed the
double-backedcupboard, the panel in the boarding, the sideboard
panel, and the aperture into the recess, he would have performed a
feat whichI should find much more difficultof explanation than ail
Mme.Blavatsky's phenomenatogether."
yery well. Let us see what this apparently crushing statement
1s worth.
In the first place, he says that the keys of the Occult Room
and the Shrine were in charge of Mr. Damodar after Mme,
Blavatsky's departure. Turning, however, to p. 280 of the
Report, I find him saying: "The reader will remember that the
contrivances for trickery were investigated (by the Board of
Control) wizenM. Coulombgave up the keys of Mme. Blavatsky'S
rooms on May r7th or 18th." Also in a ' Mahatma ' letter wbicll
I have quoted later (p. 38), and which Mr. Hodgson says was
"no doubt written by Mme.Blavatsky ", it is stated that : " TheY
REPORT: MR. HODGSON 19
[the Coulombs] are sole masters of the top story. They alone
have full entrance to and control of the premises." Again, on
p. 217 Mr. Hodgson says definitely: "When Mme. Blavatsky
and Col. Olcott left Madras to come to Europe in 1884 M. and
Mme. Coulomb were left in complete charge of Mme. Blavatsky's
rooms." Finally, on p. 222 he says: "The panels in the wardrobe
and in the teak-wood door were shown by M. Coulomb to the
Board of Control when he gave upthe lwys of Mme. Blavatsky's
rooms in J.vlay 1884."
So then, Mr. Hodgson, it appears that, like your own con-
demnation of Mr. Damodar's evidence, you can say one thing at
one time and exactly the opposite at another time as may suit
your purpose. ShaU we then apply to you the same words that
you have used about Mr. Damodar in a like case? Well, at all
events we shall say that it absolutely discredits your contention
that M. Coulomb could not have constructed the appliances for
evidence of trickery at the time stated; and it also, to say the
very least of it, reflects most seriously upon the reliability 0£your
statements in general. We shall in fact apply to you the words
which you have applied to Col. Olcott in another place: "The
testimony of Col. Olcott (:Mr. Hodgson) himself I found to be
fundamentally at variance with fact in so many important points
that it became impossible for me to place the slightest value
upon the evidence he had offered" (p. 210). This statement of
yours concerning Col. Olcott has not the slightest value in view
of your own lack of truth, and plain intention to discredit every
witness for the defence,
With regard to the rest of the paragraph I have quoted, I
need merely say that notwithstanding that he has found
Damodar such an untruthful (?) witness, he can, it appears,
quote him and accept his word whenever it suits his purpose to
do so.
Here is another case of Mr. Hodgson's truthfulness(?). On
p. 220 we find him saying :
" Moreover,the Occult Room, when I first receivedpermission to
inspectit, had been considerablyaltered ; its wallswere coveredwith
fresh plaster, and I was informed by Mr. Damodar that all traces 0f
the alleged ' machinations ' of the Coulombs in connexion with the
Shrinehad been obliteliated. This was not true, for the bricked frame
and the aperture into the recess still existed."
Now if this means anything it means that the aperture existed
when he first visited the room ; and here again he makes the
20 VvAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
unfoi:tunate Damodar to be a liar. On turning to p. 228 we
find him stating the following :
" Nowwith respect to the sideboardaperture and the recess, these
were,as I afterwards found, still in existencewhen I arrived at Adyar,
though Mr. Damodar stated to me that the recess had been blocked
up. This last statement of Mr. Damodar's I can regard only as a
deliberatemisrepresentation."
Very good. So far the paragraph confirms the one on p. 220
above quo·ted. But he goes on to say :
" Had I known that the recess still existed, I should of course
myselfhave encteavouredto enter, and should at once have discovered
the untruth of Mr.Darnodar'saccount ofhis ownentrance." (That is
to say that he was only able to enter with great difficulty.)
But this second part of the paragraph absolutely negatives
the first part and the statement on p. 220 above, in which he
says that these contrivances did exist when he first visited the
room. Who then is here the liar, Mr. Hodgson or Mr. Damodar ?
But what are we to think of the Committee of the S.P.R.
itself ? What sort of a critical analysis could they have made
of Mr. Hodgson's Report to have overlooked the glaring incon-
sistencies I have now pointed out ? It becomes more and more I
evident as we proceed that the case was so absolutely prejudged
that all sense of proportion, of justice, or of truth had been
obscured and placed in the background. As regards Mr. Hodgson's
assertion that Mr. Damodar was a confederate with :Mme.
Blavatsky and the Coulombs, there is at least one letter in the
Blavatsky-Coulomb letters which would negative this, and none
which would support it. It is the letter No. 9 (p. 214) in which
Mme. Blavatsky is represented as asking Mme. Coulomb to
~onvey a letter to Damodar" in a miraculous way". By why so
if Damodar was a confederate ? Damodar's whole life and action
in givin~ up_hisfamily and caste negatives all Hodgson's assertions
about h1sdishonesty and complicity; and Mr. Hodgson himself
acknowledges (p. 310) that he had deprived himself of substantial
property and sacrificed his worldly prospects for the sake of
1
Theosophy. Mr. Hodgson, however, in his usual conjectural
manner, endeavours to furnish Mr. Damodar with m0tives far
other than that of enthusiasm for the cause.
Finally, as regards Damodar, it is recorded in Col. Olcott's
OldDiaryLeaves(Vol. III, p. 265) that on the 23rd April 1885 be
set out on the final stages of his journey into Tibet to go to the
REPORT: lVIR. HODGSON 21
Masters. This is what Col. Olcott says, after quoting the last
entry in Damodar's D-iary,saying that he was proceeding from
Kabi alone:
"Here the Diary ends, and this is the last written trace of this
devoted, high-minded, enthusiastic young Brahmin, whose record
since joining H.P. B. and myself at Bombay is one of unbroken energy
and unfaltering zeal in the cause of humanity. A nobler heart never
beat in a human breast, and his departure was one of the hardest
blows we ever received. As above remarked, he had almost broken
down bis constitution by incessant official work, and when leaving
Adyar had begun to spit blood and show signs of a rapid decline. Yet,
with undaunted courage, he undertook the hard journey across the
Himalayas, indifferent to the biting cold, the drifted snow, the lack
of shelter and food, intent upon reaching the Guru whom he had first
seen in bis youth when lying on a sick bed, of whom he had lost sight
for many years, but whom he recovered soon after joining lhe Theo-
sophical Society, as his spiritual faculties developed, and he was able
to seek him in the s1tkshmasarira. ... The last that was seen o{him
by the coolies wa,;when, with face turned towards the Tibetan frontier,
he trudged painfully on and disappeared behind a turning of the road."
Well, was that the act of one who had played the part of a
confederate to Mme. Blavatsky in the production of 'bogus
Ma.hatmas ' ? Whether Mr. Hodgson knew of this incident before
he published his Report or not I am unable to say. He would
apparently be on his return voyage when it took place. But in
any case such an incident as this goes a very long way towards
the absolute falsification, not merely of what Mr. Hodgson has
said about Damodar in his Report, but even of the whole Report
itself.
With regard to Mr. Hodgson's acceptance 0£ the evidence of
the Coulombs, we find a str:-angeabsence in the Report of the
meticulous analysis of their evidence, which Mr. Hodgson exhibits
in the case of witnesses for the defence. From the fact that they
were paid by the missionaries for their' disclosur,es', as also that
they were by self-acknowledgment fraudulent people, there should
have been the greatest possible caution; but one would gather
from the Report that there was not a single case in whieh the
Coulombs were <discoveredin any way to have been unreliable
witnesses, or to have contradicted themselves; and where their
evidence is contradicted by theosophical witnesses it is invariably
accepted in preference to that of the latter. Mr. Hodgson says
on p. 20 that he has never trusted to any unverified statements
ofthe Coulombs, but that " neither by frequent cross-examination
22 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN ?
nor by independent investigation of their statements wherever
circmnstances permitted, have I been able to break down any
allegations of theirs which were in an'?'way mat~ria_l.'.' . .
One must note the reservations wluch I have 1talic1zedm this
sentence. Mr. Hodgson does not give us any indication as to the
number of times he has accepted their evidence where " circum-
stances" did not permit; and he is apparently the sole judge as
to those in which their allegations "were in any way material".
There is in the Report a strange absence of any mention of this
" independent investigation of their statements ". I can only
find two mentioned. The first of these is in connexion with the
so-called' saucer phenomenon' (p. 2r8), in which a broken saucer
is said to have been phenomenally repaired in the Shrine.
Hodgson's explanation of this is, that a similar whole saucer was
introduced into the Shrine through the back by M. Coulomb.
This was the Coulombs' statement, and Mr. Hodgson endeavours
to confirm it in the following manner. He says:
"The whole 'saucer' found in the Shrine was shown to me at
Adyar at my request. I examined it carefully, and I also examined
carefully the broken piecesof the saucer which Mme.Coulomb exhibited
as those for which the whole saucer had been substituted. The two
' saucers ' manifestly formed a pair."
He then goes on to say that he had ascertained that "two
porcelain pin trays" had been purchased at a shop by Mme.
Coulombon the 3rd July, at least five weeks prior to the date of
the phenomenon. He says that' pin trays' better describes the
articles than ' saucers '. Very well. The first question we should
ask in a cross-examination is : How does Hodgson know that the
saucer or pin tray shown to him at Adyar, and the pieces sho"vn
to him by Mme. Coulombwere the actual ones used in the pheno-
menon ? We may legitimately make use here of Mr. Hodgson's
method of arguing which runs through the whole Report. We
shall therefore say: Assuming that the Coulombs were at the
time collecting material for a subsequent charge of fraud against
Mme. Blavatsky-and there is every reason to think that they
were-what could have been easier for them than to have substi-
tuted, after the event,another saucer, to wit, one of the' pin trays',
for the whole one ? Who was there to identify the saucer ?
The answer is, General Morgan and Damodar, the only other
people present besides the Coulombs when the ' phenomenon '
took place. There is no word to show that Hodgson took anY
trouble to obtain this absolutely necessary €onfumation.
.L
REPORT : MR. HODGSON 23
We may remark further, with regard to this incident, that it
was absolutely necessary in support of the Coulomb's assertion
and Mr.Hodgson's theory that there should have been an opening
at that time into the back of the Shrine from Mme. Blavatsky's
room. This opening Hodgson has assivmed, but cannot be said
to have proved ; whilst, on the other hand, there is a mass of
evidence from various witnesses that such an opening did not
exist. All this evidence Mr. Hodgson tries to explain away by
one assumption or another of unreliability on the part of the
witnesses.
But what finally disposes of the theory of fraud in this case
is the letter which Mme.Coulombherself wrote to Mme.Blavatsky
describing the incident. Mme. Blavatsky was at the time at
Ootacamund, and the only thing to connect her with the incident
is in the forged letters, Nos. 2, 3, and 4 of the Report (p. 212).
These letters, it may be observed, are not dated. On the 13th
August l:VIme.
Coulomb wrote to Mme. Blavatsky describing the
incident, regretting the breakage of the saucer, and saying, among
other things : " I verily believe I shall go silly if I stay with
you.... I say you have dealings with old Nick'' This is a
view which Mme. Coulomb had expressed previously, as she was
supposed to be a Christian! But would she have written thus
had she been a confederate? Mr. Hodgson says: " It is easy to
read between the lines of Mme. Coulomb's letter, even without
her statement that Mme. Blavatsky told her to be prudent in
what she wrote." Yes, it appears to be very easy for Mr. Hodgson
to read much which exists only in his own imagination ; but he
does not explain why Mme. Blavatsky, who thus cauti0ned Mme.
Coulomb as to being prudent in what she wrote, should herself
have been so very imprude11,t as the forged letters would make
her out to be.
The second incident in which Mr. Hodgson endeavours to
establish outside confirmation is similar to the first, and refers
to a pair of vases which Col. Olcott said he had received pheno-
menally. I shall not occupy space with the details, because
Hodgson did not see the vases, which, he says, "had disappeared
mysteriously " ; insinuating that Mme. Blavatsky herself had
made away with them.
Now Hodgson found that Mme. Coulomb had purchased two
pairs of vases at a certain shop on the 25th May, and Olcott's
entry in his diai;y shows that the ' phenomenon ' happened on
the 26th. But what is there to show that the vases which he
received were the ones purchased by Mqie. Coulomb P Nothing
24 vVAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
whatever but the word of the Coulombs ; nor is there anything
to show that these vases were purchased under instructions from
Mme. Blavatsky.
Another case of the loose ·way in which Mr. Hodgson pieces
together his 'evidence' is to be found on p. 260 .. He is trying
to explain how one of the phenomena described by Mr.
Sinnett in The Occult World, might have been fraudulently
produced.
He begins by asking : " What arrangements would be necessary
for the phenomenon if it was a trick ? i\•Ime.Blavatsky, we may
suppose "-does so-and-so. Then in a foot-note he naively
remarks: "M. Coulomb declares the arrangements were as here
described." Indeed! And what 'independent investigation'
has he to bring forward to support M. Coulomb's statement ?
None whatever. Not merely so, but it would appear that M.
Coulomb made this statement after being prompted by Hodgson ;
for it is Hodgson who suggests the 'arrangements' in the first
instance. But further than this : the ' arrangements ' necessi-
tated the assitmption of a confederate at Mr. Sinnett's home eight
hundred miles away; this confederate having previously been
instructed to place a piece·of broken plaster plaque in a drawer
in Mr. Sinnett's room, and also a Mahatma letter in a closed
telegram envelope. This latter he is supposed by Hodgson .to
have done, "possibly by careful manipulation of the eyelets which
are used to fasten telegram envelopes in India ; possibly by
substituting eyelets slightly larger." But as regards this latter
part of the ' arrangements ' there is an utter absence of confinna-
tory evidence of the further suggestion that the ' confederate '
who was to do these supposed manipulations was Mr. Bhavani
Rao, who was at Mr. Sinnett's house at the time with Col. Olcott.
Mr. Hodgson apparently does not dare to suggest that the con-
federate might have been Col. Olcott himself. Mr. Hodgson" can
find no imprnbability in the supposition " that Bhavani Rao was
the confederate. Very well: Hodgson is no doubt entitled to
form what opinions he likes ; but where is the proof in all this
mass of suppositions? Is there any genuine psychical pheno-
menon whatever which cannot be, and which has not as a matter
of fact been, explained away by one sceptic or another on a
similar basis 01 what might have been the case ? There is a vast
difference between a might have been and a was. In the one case
we are entitled to reserve our judgrnent ; but we are certainly
not entitled to level accusations of fraud as if we had definitely
proved the case. If we are to say was we must have very definite I
.I
REPORT : MR. HODGSON 25
proof, and of that proof-apart from the word of the Coulombs
-there is a total absence in the S.P.R. Report.
One reads with ever-increasing disgust these conjectural
phrases with which almost every page is freely besprinkled:
'it may have been'-' there is nothing which might not have
been'-' it might well have been'-' it would appear'-' it is
possible'-' what seems to have happened'-' probably'-' I
think'-' we may suppose'-' she might have'-' cannot be
regarded as at all unlikely'-' there might have been'-' she
may have '-etc., etc. On one page (268) I find: 'inclined to
explain'-' probably' (twice)-' may have' (seven times)-' seems
to have'-' may not have'-' might have'. Is it any wonder
that in the end Hodgson succeeded in persuading himself that
all these suppositions were what really happened, so that he
.finally sticks at nothing, and rejects as 'unreliable', or else as
' deliberate lies ', every scrap of evidence offered for the genuine
explanation ? Is it any wonder that, going altogether outside
the limits of his own investigations, he finally takes his courage
in both hands and declares his" unqualified opinion" that" no
genuine psychical phenomena. whatever will be found among the
pseudo-mysteries of the Russian lady alias J{oot Hoomi Lal Sing
alias Mahatma Morya alias Mme. Blavatsky " ?
Well I that 'puts the lid on' the matter with a vengeance!
Every one who has testified to these phenomena is thus coolly
written down as either a fool or a dupe-or perhaps worse-and
this must include all the members of Mme. Blavatsky's own
family who have testified to her. extraordinary psychic powers
from her childhood onwards.
To show to what lengths Mr. Hodgson can go-we mig:ht
perhaps say, rather, to what depths he can descend-in his
endeavour to discredit witnesses, we may instance the
following:
It is tolerably well known that Mme.Fadeef, Mme. Blavatsky's
aunt, has placed it on record that about the year I870, when
Mme. Blavatsky had not been heard of by her family for several
years, and they were ready to believe that she was dead, she
(Mme. F.) received in Odessa a letter in French, in the hand-
writing afterwards familiar as that of' K.H.', telling her that her
niece was alive, and would be restored to her family "before r8
new moons shall have risen ". This letter is in fact the first
' K.H.' document on irecord, and is many years pFevious to any
other similar communication. Mme. Fadeef goes on to say
that this letter " was brought to me in the most incomprehensible
4
26 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
and mysterious manner, by a messenger of Asiatic appearance,
whothen disappea1
1
ed be/orerny very eyes".
Commenting upon this on p. 292 of his Report Mr. Hodgson
says:
" I think it not improbable that this document was written by
Mme.Blavatsky in 1879or 1880,when the idea of correspondingwith
oneofthe" Brothers" appears to have bee11
first mooted. In weighing
the statement of :Mme.Fadeef that she received the document about
the year 1870,we should remember that she is a Russian lady, and
the aunt of Mme.Blavatsky, and that .Mme.
Blavatsky may have been
influencedby political motives in the founding of the Theosophical
Society."
In other words, because Mme. Fadeef is a Russian lady, and
the aunt of Mme. Blavatsky-she is probably a liar!
Mr. Hodgson, it appears, afterwards became a convinced
spiritualist; and I have no doubt that if this had been the case
when he was ' investigating' Mme. Blavatsky's phenomena, he
would have given a very different account of them, and would in
all probability have put her down as a very powerful medium.
Mr. Hodgson's method of dealing with the overwhelming
evidence for the existence of the Masters or Mahatmas given by
those who had met with them in the flesh, is characteristic of all
his other' plausible ' hypotheses. This is what he says on p. 245 :
" I neednot saymuchonthe other allegedappearancesofMahatmas
in either their ordinary physical or their ' astral ' bodies. A con-
federate in disguiseis generallyan easy and sufficientexplanation of
them."
Really! We may of course agree that the explanation is
' easy ' enough ; but as for its being ' sufficient ', we may ask
here again: Would it be sufficient in a court of law without any
troof? No doubt it is sufficient enough for any sceptic, but is
it true ? What proof has Mr. Hodgson to offer for his tbeorY
in everycase? Not a scrap apart from the word of the Coulombs
that on two or three occasionsthey had personated the Mahatmas
at the ~ead-quarters of the Society. Their mere word in this
r~pect 1s absolutely valueless, and in any case it does not deal
with the physical and 'astral' appearances of the Mahatmas at
quite other places. I shall refer to one of these physical appear-
ances later on (p. 51).
Is it believable that in such a mass of evidence as the Coulorob.S
have given rela~ive to phenomena which took place from one to
four years previously there should have been no contradictions,
REPORT: MR. HODGSON 27
no small slips even? Mr. Hodgson only records one instance of
the latter (p. 219) where Mme. Coulomb says in reference to the
' saucer' incident that she gave two rupees eight annas each,
instead of this amount for the pair. Instance after instance is
given by Ivir. Hodgson of the unreliability of witnesses for the
defence on account of small slips like this. Mr. Sinnett complains
bitterly in his published reply to the Report that Mr. Hodgson
has discredited his evidence on account of a difference between
ten and thirty seconds in reference to two different accounts of
a certain phenomenon. Mr. Sinnett's remarks are worth giving
here. He says ofthis discrepancy of a few seconds that :
"It is nevertheless the foundation ofthe major part ofMr.Hodgson's
subsequent theorizing about my book (The Occult World). I am an
inaccurate man ; I must be given up; I have been shown to have
told one story at one time and another at another about the same
thing, and there is an end of me. And whatever I may say after this,
even if the thing itself does not betray error, it is impossible to have
confidence in so careless an estimator of seconds. And the picture
Mr. Hodgson gives of himself opening a letter-doubtless with ready
appliances of boilingwater and all that may be wanted-his monstrous
assumption that Mme. Blavatsky has " probably superior skill and
practice" at such work-with water, it is to be presumed, al\Vays
boiling in her pocket-is merely the beginning of the stupendous
pyramid of extravagant conjecture which he builds, bottom upwards,
upon the famous discrepancy of the seconds; and which men with
reputations for intelligence to squander, are, marvellous to say, not
ashamed to publish in the Proceedings of the Psychical Research
Society." 1
That is, as Mr. Sinnett says, a very good example of the way
in which he has treated every witness exceptthe Coielombs. The
conclusion is inevitable : that Mr. Hodgson must have deliberately
suppressed everything tending to discredit in the least degree the
evidence of the Coulombs.
So much for the 'evidence', the reliability, the truth of the
young man whose Report the S.P.R. accepted, apparently without
even a critical examination on their part, and certainly without
giving the defendant the slightest opportunity of examining it,
or of replying before they bran.ded her as a fraud and a charlatan.
Can they be said to have done this in their zeal for TRUTH?
Well, if so, then we may perhaps be allowed to say, 0 sancta
simpticitasI
1, The ' Occ11ltWorld Phenomena' aml Liu:Societ;1for Psyc!lical Research by
A.. P. Sinnett, 1886, p. 17.
THE REPORT : THE COULOMBS
The whole issue of Mr. Hodgson's Report turns practically on
the truth or otherwise of the statements made by M. and Mme.
Coulomb. These statements were, that they had assisted Mme.
Blavatsky in causing bogus letters purporting to have come from
the Mahatmas to appear apparently miraculously at various times
and places, and more particularly in connexion with the ' Shrine'
in the Occult Room at Adyar. They are also said to have
impersonated the Mahatmas on some occasions when these were
supposed to have made an 'astral' appearance.
Now with regard to the above I may remark at once that
there is not in Mr. Hodgson's Report a single scrap of direct
evidence in any single case in support of their statements. The
evidence-if such it can be called-which Mr. Hodgson brings
forward is entirely circumstantial and inferential.
We lay our finger here on what is perhaps the decisive factor
which would cause us to discredit totally the evidence and
·statements of the Coulombs. It is this: According to Mr.
Hodgson, almost every one at Theosophical head-quarters appears
to have been implicated in some way or another in a conspiracy
to defraud. It would appear to have been a sort of mutual
deception society. Mme. Blavatsky is accused of having bad
innumerable confederates besides the Coulombs ; indeed, she
would seem, according to Mr. Hodgson, to have had these con·
federates not merely at bead-quarters but all over India. Now,
how is it that out of this army of confederates not a single one
comes forward to support the statements of the Coulombs?
Not merely so, but Mme. Coulomb ·in her published statement
(" Some Account of my Intercourse with Mme. Blavatsky '')
does ~ot even n:ention. any one as being implicated in these
deceptions. Is 1t credible that if Mr. Hodgson's wholesale
suppositions as to confederates were true, Mme. Coulomb would1
not know of at least some of them and have called them to her
side in support of her statements ? Is it credible that the
missionaries would not also have bribed one or two of these, as
they bribed the Coulombs,to sell their ' evidence ' ? According I
to Mr. Hodgson, Mr. Damodar was the principal confederate at
head-quarters. How is it that Mme. Coulomb does not implicate
him? Not merely so, but as I have already stated (p. 20), in
28
REPORT : THE COULOMBS 29
one of the forged letters she is requested to convey to Damodar
a Mahatma letter " in a miraculou,sway ". Why so if Damodar
was a confederate ? Of the impossibility of his being a con-
federate I have already said sufficient on p. 2r. The plain fact
is that the statements of the Coulombs rest entirely on their own
word-except as regards the forged letters, with which I deal
later on. Just imagine : out of the whole army of confederates
not one to support them! Would the evidence of" persons like
the Coulombs" have been accepted in a court of law without
this support ?
Well, then, the only evidence which they produce to support
their statements consists of a number of letters said by them to
have been written to Mme. Coulomb by Mme. Blavatsky, and
which, if gen,uine,would undoubtedly appear to be decisive as to
the matter of certain instructions given to the Coulombs to
produce bogus phenomena. And even then we cannot account
for Mr. Hodgson's supposed innumerable confederates. The
genuineness or otherwise of these letters turns entirely on the
question of the handwriting experts' evidence ; but with that
I shall deal later on. What I must now consider are the facts
about the Coulombs themselves, and Mr. Hodgson's method of
dealing with their evidence apart from the question of the letters.
The Report states (p. 203) that :
" M. and Mme. Coulombhad occupied positionsof trust at the
head-quarters of the Theosophical Society for some years, but had
been expelled from it, in May I884, by the General Councilof that
Society during the absence of Mme. Blavatsky and Col. Olcott in
Europe."
The reasons for this expulsion are mentioned by Mr. Hodgson
on pp. 278 ff, but are not given in full. I therefore give them
here, premising that the Coulombs were cited to a~pear before
the General Council on the r3th May r884. The following were
the charges laid against them as set forth in the official report
of the meeting. 1
I. It was shownby four affidavits,that Mme.Coulombrepeatedly
said to members of the TheosophicalSociety as well as to
outsiders, that the Theos0phical Society had for its object
the overthrow of the British rule in India.
ll. Nine affidavits gave evidence that she said that the objects
of the Society.were inimical to what she believedto be true
religion.
1 See Report of 0bser11alio1is,etc., by F. Hartmann,
,
.
30 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
III. Ten affidavits proved that Mme. Coulombfrequently said that
the 'occult phenomena' occurring at head-quarters were
frauds, while at other occasions she said they ·were the works
of the devil.
IV. Four affidavits went to show Mme.Coulombguilty of attempt-
ing to extort money from members of the Society.
V. Three affldavits proved that she had wasted the funds of the
Society.
VI. All the affidavits showed her guilty of lying and backbiting.
VII. One affidavit proved her guilty of having grossly slandered
H.P.B.
VIII. Two affidavits stated how she had dissuaded people from
joining the Society.
IX. All the affidavits agreed unanimously, that her presence at
the head-quarters was causing an immense waste of time,
energy, money, and that her continuance there was against
the interests of the T.S.
X. Letters proved that a blackmailing letter was sent to H.P. B.
by Mme. Coulomb.
,.,
The charges against M. Coulomb were :
I. Aidingand abetting hiswifein the abovedescribed machinations.
II. Disobedienceto the orders of the Board of Control.
As the result of this ·Council Meeting-Mme. Coulomb having
neither acknowledged nor denied any of the charges-the Coulombs
were discharged.
This crisis appears to have been hastened by a 'Mahatma'
letter addressed to Dr. Hartmann, and given to him by Damodar.
Mr. Hodgson's theory about this letter is that it was ' no doubt'
(p. 279) written by Mme. Blavatsky-who was then apparently
in Paris-that it was posted to Damodar, and would reach him
'aboi,t' April 26th, on which date he gave it to Dr. Hartmann.
There is, however, not a scrap of prooJ of this, not even the
calculation as to how it would reach Damodar about the 26th.
Now this letter says :
" Fo~so1;lle
time already the woman [Mme.CoulombJ has open~dI
eommurucahon-a regular diplomatic pourparlers-with the enemies
of the caus:, certain padris. She hopes for more than 2,ooo rupees
from them if she helps them ruining or at least injuring the Society
by injuring ~hereputation of the Founders. Moreover, when needed,
trap-doors will befound, as they have been forthcoming for some time-
They are sole masters of the top story. They alone have full entrance
to and control of the premises."
REPORT: THE COULOMBS 31
The letter contains some further remarks which I need not
quote here. Mr. Hodgson's theory about this letter is (p. 302)
that Mme. Blavatsky wrote it and posted it from Paris to Damodar
" in order to serve as a guard against the disclosure of the trick
apparatus". He says also: "The substance of the document is
certainly much more suggestive of the cunning combined with
the inevitable ignorance of Mme. Blavatsky in Paris, than of
any divine wisdom or knowledge of the supposed" Mahatma M"
in India."
What might suggest itself here, however, to an impartial
reader is rather, I think, that in endeavouring to prove so much
cunning and foresight on the part of Mme. Blavatsky, Mr.
Hodgson cuts the ground from under his own feet. He proves
far too much ; for such an accomplished impostor would certainly
never have given herself away as she is represented to have done
in the forged letters.
Now with the exception of the letter above quoted, in which
it is stated that the Coulombs expected to receive 2,000 rupees
from the padris for their 'exposure', Mr. Hodgson does not
mention or deal with this most important item in considering
the motives of the Coulombs, and its bearing upon their testimony
as reliable witnesses. That the Coulombs were paid by the
Madras Christian College authorities is acknowledged; though
the exact amount that they received is uncertain. As to the
morality of this transaction, we may leave our readers to decide
for themselves.
Apart from the College authorities having obtained" the best
evidence possible at Madras as to the genuineness oJ the hand-
writing" of the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters (p. 208), they do not
appear to have taken any steps towards ascertaining the reliability
or truth of the statements made by the C0ulombs. Mme.Coulomb
appears, from her own statements, to have regarded, during the
whole time that she was at head-quarters, the phenomena of
Mme. Blavatsky as " the work of the devil ". Mr. H0dgson makes
no attempt to dispute this ; but it is absolutely incompatible
with the theory that Mme. Coulomb had herself produced so
many of them by tricks.
Dr. Hartmann in his aforementioned paJOphlet, Report on
Observations, etc., thus d.esc.ribesMme. Coulomb (p. 2I) :
"A weird witch-like creature, with wrinkled features, a stinging
look and an uncouth form. She seemed to consider it her especial
purpose of life to pry into everybody's pri.vateaffairs, pick up stray
letters here and there, that were not addressed to her, probably for
32 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
the purpose of studying the handwriting; she attempted to wrig_gle
herself into the confidenceof new-comers,and had a way of finding
out their secrets by pretending to tell their fortunes by means of a
pack of cards; while at the same time she would t1:Y
to awaken the
sympathiesof strangers by her tales, how fro~ a life of luxur)'. ~he
had sunk down to a position of servitude, and if she found a willing
ear she would never hesitate a moment to insinuate that the whole
Societywas a humbug, the phenomena produced by fraud, and that
'she could tell many things, if she only wanted to do so '. If asked
to explain herself she would say: 'My mouth is shut up, I cannot
talk against the people whose bread I eat ', and when she was told
that the occult phenomenaoccurred even when Mme.Blavatsky was
thousands of miles a,vay, she would say that ' she knew what she
knew '.... Shehad arrived at head-quarters penniless,and had been
taken into the houseby :Mme.
Blavatsky out of charity."
One of the ' stray letters ' mentioned above which Mme.
Coulomb would pick up and keep for future use was a fragment
in Mme.Blavatsky's handwriting which appeared to give credence
to the accusation that she was a Russian spy. This was duly
passed on to Mr. Hodgson, and he publishes it on p. 317, and
also gives it in facsimile. Alas for Mr. Hodgson's theory: this
fragment was either a discarded portion of a translation which
Mme. Blavatsky made at Mr. Sinnett's request for the Pioneer
(of which he was at that time the editor) from Col. Grodekoff's
Travels in CentralAsia; or else it was possibly a part of a trans-
lation made for the Indian Government itself for whom Mme.
Blavatsky at one time did some work. Mme.
1
Blavatsky herself
said it was for the Pioneer.1
Dr. Hartmann's Report of Observations, it should be noted,
was published in October 1884,before Mr. Hodgson visited India,
and has therefore no reference to that visit or to the S.P.R.
Report itself.
In December 1883, during the annual Convention of the T.S.
at Adyar, Mme. Coulomb endeavoured to obtain a 'loan' of
2,000 rupees from Prince Harisinghji who attended that Con-
vention. In this she was unsuccessfui. When Mme. Blavatsky
l~f: Adyar _inFebruary 1884for Bombay en route for Europe, she
visited Pnnce Harisinghji on the way. Mme. Coulomb had
asked and had been granted permission to accompany her to
Bombay, and she then made another effort to obtain this' loan'
from the Prince. The Prince complained at last to Mrne-
Blavatsky, who immediately put a stop to Mme. Coulomb's
1
See Sinnett's Incidents in the Life of Madam& Blavatsky, p.
3
u.
REPORT: THE COULO~IBS 33
efforts. Dr. Hartmann, who was present, says: "Her (Mme.
C'.s] fury knew no bounds, and her passionate outbursts of anger
and jealousy were in no way soothed down by Mme. Blavatsky
reproaching her for her unjust attempt at extortion." Whether
this was an attempt to blackmail is not stated, but Mme.Coulomb
evidently thought that she had some hold on the Prince to enable
her to ask for such a 'loan'. Be that as it may, this appears
to have been the turning-point in her rupture with the Society,
for Dr. Hartmann says that when leaving the boat at Bombay
after saying good-bye to Mme. Blavatsky, she turned to Babula,
Mme. Blavatsky's servant, and said: "I shall be revenged on
your mistress for preventing me from getting my 2,000 rupees."
Here again we may remark that if Mme. Coulomb had had
such a powerful weapon of revenge as the forged letters disclose
she might, and would, have held these over Mme. Blavatsky as
a threat to prevent any rupture or interference with her plans.
General Morgan writes of Mme. Coulomb :
" When we consider the characteristicsof this woman,her eaves-
dropping, purloining of letters, her hatred of the memberscomposing
the Society,her swearingshe wouldbe revenged,her incessantespion-
age of Mme. Blavatsky, and those she might be talking with, the
motive and manner of her concocting these letters is not difficultto
understand."1
This, and a good deal more which could be said about the
Coulombs, does not appear to enter at all into Mr. Hodgson's
estimate as to their reliability as witnesses, or the truth of their
statements.
1 Reply t.o a Report of au Examination by J. D. B. Gribble.
THE REPORT: THE' SHRINE' PHENOMENA
The so-called Shrine was a wooden cupboard between three
feet and four feet in width and height, and one foot or fifteen
inches in depth, with a drawer below the cupboard portion, and
with corner brackets. It was supposed to be in special occult
communication by means of certain etheric or other currents
with the Masters. It was hung, not fixed, against a double
partition wall between the Occult Room and Mme. Blavatsky's
private rooms, and there appears to have been a space about
twelve inches in depth between the two portions of this double
partition wall. There appears also to have been a space of some
inches between the Shrine itself and the wall against which it
was hung. The Shrine contained portraits of two of the Masters,
and some other ' sacred ' articles, and was an object of great
veneration by the native chelas, though it does not appear to
have been so to other natives who visited the place, nor to the
Europeans at head-quarters.
Mr. Hodgson, in order to sustain his theories of fraud in
connexion with this Shrine, had to prove first of all that the
Shrine had a movable back ; and in the second place that there
was a hole in the party-wall at the back of the Shrine so that
letters, etc., could be placed in it from Mme. Blavatsky's room.
I may note here, first of all, that Mr. Hodgson never saw the
Shrine, for it had been removed and destroyed after the Coulombs
were expelled, and before Mr. Hodgson reached India. The date
appea~s to have been September 20th (see p. 220).
.With regard to the back of the Shrine, and the possible
existence of a ~ovable portion, the evidence is very conflicting,
though many witnesses assert that they had thoroughly examined
the Shrine and had found the back to be solid. Mr. Hodgson
endea~ours to discredit these witnesses by showing that according
to th~JI ~wn statements they had not made a sufficiently close
exammahon. Well, let us see.
Mr. Hodgson says on p. 221 :
"M. Coulombstates that he removed the Shrine just after it was
origin8:11Y
placed against the wall, sawed the middle panel (at the
back) m two, and attached a piece of leather behind to serve as a
handle,sothat the top portioncouldbe easilypulledup. The junction
34
REPORT : THE ' SHRINE ' PHENOMENA 35
between the two halves of the panel was, he says, hiddenfrom those
lookingat the inside of the Shrineby a mirrorwhichjust coveredit."
Now there is not a single mention of this mirror-which must
have been three feet or four feet long-in any description of the
Shrine by any of the numerous witnesses who examined it inside
and outside. No one appears to have noticed it, and there is
only M. Coulomb's word for it. Indeed, Mr. Hodgson himself
says on p. 222, "M. Coulomb's statement as to the half panel
cannot of course be verified, and must be taken for what it is
worth." Precisely; but if it is worth nothing-as indeed is the
case in face of the evidence of those above mentioned-the whole
of Mr. Hodgson's case breaks down ; for if there was no such
access to the Shrine from the back, then that explanation of the
Shrine phenomena, upon which Mr. Hodgson relies entirely, is
absolutely discredited. And yet Mr. Hodgson builds up the
whole of his case on this one assertion which he himself says
" cannot be verified ". After this he occupies page after page of
his Report in an endeavour to show that there was a hole in the
wall behind the Shrine: that is to say, in the wall in the Occult
Room, forming one wall of the double partition between that
room and Mme. Blavatsky's room.
It would occupy too much space here to go into an analysis
of Mr. Hodgson's futile attempt to sustain his contention that
there was such a hole. The whole weight of the evidence goes
to show that there was no such hole at any time that it could
have accounted for any of the Shrine phenomena. Further, it
is absolutely certain from Mr. Hodgson's own showing, and from
the evidence of the Board of Control, that no such hole existed
when the Coulombs left; whereas it was absolutely essential in
order to prove their case that such a hole should have existed.
Mr. Hodgson very lamely endeav0urs to insinuate that the hole
did once exist, but that M. Coulomb had himself filled it up.
This is simply absurd, for his whole case rested on the existence
of a through communication from Mme. Blavatsky's room to the
interior of the Shrine. The contention of the Board of Control
was, that M. Coulomb had not had time to complete this remaining
piece of ' evidence ' before his work was disturbed by them and
he was dismissed. This is by far the most likely explanation.
Since this hole did not exist, all the evidence for a hole on the
side of the partition in Mme. Blavatsky's room is superfluous,
though Mr. Hodgs0n devoted many pages of his Report to it.
There is no doubt that there was such a hole in Mme. Blavatsky's
36 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
room when the Coulombs left (seep. 19 supra), and this undoubt-
edly strengthens the contention of the Board of Control just
mentioned, and confirms what is said in the occult letter I have
referred to on p. 30 that "when needed trap-doors will be found".
But as.regards this we may note further that Mr. Hodgson
admits that at the end of October or the beginning of November
1883 Mme. BlaV'atsky, in consequence of a doubt expressed by
Mr. G-- concerning the panelled boarding which at that time
existed on Mme. Blavatsky's side of the wall, had this panelling
removed and a brick wall substituted. He contends, however,
that after this had been done a sideboard was placed against the
bricked part, that some of the bricks were removed, and that
the sideboard had a movable back which would permit of access
to the space between the two partitions constituting the wall.
There is no doubt that this sideboard was placed there, and also
that it had a movable back when examined by the Board of
Control, as well-as already said-that there was a hole in the
wall on this side of the partition, for these were disclosed " when
the Coulombsgave up the keys of the rooms " on their dismissal
in May r884. But there is not a scrap of evidence to show that
these contrivances were available for phenomena during the time
that Mme. Blavatsky was in occupation of the rooms, or that
they existed at that time. Besides, of what use would they have ,
been without the corresponding hole in the other half of the
partition wall behind the Shrine ; and that, according to Mr.
Hodgson's own account, certainly did not exist when these other
contrivances were discovered.
There were some other contrivances in the way of sliding
panels in the Occult Room which were supposed by Mr. Hodgson
to have been used for bogus phenomena; but, according to bis
own admissions, at least one of these " could, when I saw it, be
opened and shut only with considerable difficulty " (p. 339).
Also Mr. J. D. B. Gribble, a gentleman who visited the head-
quarteFSin October 1884,practically on behalf of the Missionaries
says:
" I was also shown two oi the sliding doors and panels said to have
been made by M. Coulomb after Mme. Blavatsky's departure. One
of these is on the outside of the so-called occult room and the other
is on the outside of the sitting-room upstairs. Both of these have
~een made without the slightest attempt at concealment. The fonner
~sat the _topof a back staircase and consists of two doors which open
mto a kind of bookshelf. This gives the idea of having been con-
structed so as to place food on the shelves inside without opening the
_
REPORT : THE ' SHRINE ' PHENOMENA 37
cloor. The other contrivance is a sliding panel which lifts up and
opens and shuts \.vitbsome difficulty. It is evidently of recent constmc-
t-ion. Certainly in its present state it would be difficult to carrv out
any phenomena by its means. In th!s case also there is no attempt
at concealment. Neither of these two appliances communicate with
the Shrine, which is situated on the cross-wall dividing the occult
room from an adjoining bedroom. I was not allowed to sec the
Shrine " (see /l Report of an Examination, etc., p. 29).
1\fr.Gribble is slightly at fault in this last sentence in saying
that he was not ' allowed ' to see the Shrine, for, as we have
seen, it was destroyed in September. That shows again how
easily witnesses may make mistakes in their statements-mistakes
which cannot ~eallybe taken as making them unreliable in respect
of all their other evidence.
Now Mr. Hodgson endeavours to dispose of all this difficulty
in the working of the panels by saying that : " Disuse for a Jew
months, or a little grit, would, I think, account £or this fact "
(p. 223). Indeed. Are we really to accept such feeblestatements
as ' evidence ' disposing of the case ?
The real fact is, that whatever may have been the history of
these sliding doors, sliding panels which ' lift up:, holes in the
wall, etc., etc., there is not a particle of evidence beyond the word
of the Coulombs to show that any of the phenomena mentioned
in connexion with the Shrine were ever produced by these means.
Setting aside the question of the forged letters, with which I
shall deal immediately, and looking broadly at the question of
the phenomena and Mr. Hodgson's method of dealing with the
evidence for their genuineness, there is a very strong presumption
that what Mr. Hodgson states as his final conclusion-i.e. t~at
" no genuine psychical phenomena whatever will be found among
the pseudo-mysteries of the Russian lady " (p. 317)-was in
reality his starting-point. It was the a priori judgment that the
phenomena were impossible, therefore no evidence for them could
be valid, and every one who witnessed them was either consciously
or unconsciously inaccurate or untruthful in his or her evidence.
This is in fact what his whole energies are directed to showing,
and he discredits the witnesses one by one on the most trivial
grounds, and suggests alternatives to explain the pheno~ena
which will not bear a moment's examination in face of the direct
evidence, since some of the most important factors which cann0t
be explained away are deliberately omitted from the account,
or ignored.
Mr. Hodgson not merely thus discredits the witnesses for the
...
38 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
genuineness of the phenomena, but he appears to go to the other
extreme in the case of the Coulombs, and to have accepted their
evidence without any such incredulity as he exhibits in the case
of the witnesses for the defence. At all events there is not in
the Report the slightest indication that he applied to their
evidence the same methods of meticulous analysis that he has
applied to the others. It is absolutely inconceivable that the
Coulombsshould have been unimpeachable in their evidence, or
that a cross-examination would not have convicted them of as
many inaccuracies-not to say 'deliberate misrepresentations'
-as Mr. Hodgson puts forward in connexion with the actual
witnesses o-fthe phenomena-and of which he hirnself is gitilty.
THE REPORT: THE HANDWRITING EVIDENCE
The letters said to have been written by Mme. Blavatsky to
Mme. Coulomb, which were sold by her to the Missionary authori-
ties, and some of which were published in the M a,lras Cltr-istian
CollegeMagazine, September and October r884, and which would,
if genuine, undoubtedly implicate Mme. Blavatsky in trickery
in collusion with the Coulombs, were declared by Mme.Blavatsky
to be forgeries.
The following is Mme. Blavatsky's letter to The Times,
October 9th r884 with regard to these letters.
"Sir,-With reference to the alleged exposure at Madras of a
dishonourable conspiracy between myself and two persons of the
name of Coulombto deceivethe publicwith occultphenomena,I have
to say that the letters purporting to have been written by me are
certainly not mine. Sentenceshere and there I recognize,taken from
old notes of mine on different matters, but they are mingled with
interpolations that entirely pervert their meaning. With these
exceptionsthe whole of the letters arc fabrications.
" The fabricatorsmust havebeengrosslyignorantof Indian affair~,
since they make me speak of a ' Maharajah of Lahore', whenevery
Indian schoolboyknows that no such person exists."
The only evidence which the S.P.R. Report puts forward as
to the genuineness of the letters is that of various handwriting
'experts', of whom the principal one was Mr. F. G. Netherclift
-I beg Mr. Hodgson's pardon: he himself appears to have been
the principal 'expert', for Mr. Netherclift gave it as his first
opinion that certain letters submitted to him were not in :Mme.
Blavatsky's handwriting; but when Mr. Hodgson had returned
to England, and had duly coached Mr. Netherclift, that gentleman
obligingly altered his opinion (p. 282). We are naively told
(p. 283) that Mr. Sims of the British Museum also changed his
opinion under the same circumstances.
This fact of change of opinion is somewhat dishonourably set
forth in the Report. On p. 204 the Committee-not Mr. Hodgson
-say that Mr. Netherclift and Mr. Sims "came independently to
the conclusion that the letters were written by Mme. Blavatsky "•
It is not till we reach pp. 282-3 in Mr. Hodgson's Report that
we find the fact of the change of opinion of the 'experts'; so
39
--
40 vVAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
that any one reading only the first opinion ?fthe C~mmittee is
misled not merely in respect of the suppress1011of th1s fact, but
also in the employment oi the worcl ' independently ' ; for
whether these ' experts ' formed their opinions independently of
each other or not, they certainly did not do so independently
of Mr. Hodgson.
But further than this: the Committee of the S.P.R. appeart
to have been in such a hurry to condemn Mme. Blavatsky that
1
they actually accepted Mr. Hodgson's conclits£ons,and published
them six months before Mr. Hodgson's Report was completed
and published ! The conclusions were announced by the Com-
mittee on the 24th June; the Report, as we have seen, was
published in December. On p. 276 of the Report Mr. Hodgson
says:
"I have nowin myhandsnumerousdocumentswhichare connected
with the experiencesof Mr.Hume and others in connexion with Mme.
Blavatskyand the TheosophicalSociety. These documents, including
the K. H. MSS.above referred to, did not reach me till August, and
my examination of them has involved a considerable delay in the
production of this Report." 1
It is scarcely believable that a Society of ' honourable ' men
who had undertaken what was practically a judicial trial shoul~
have conducted it throughout in the manner in which th!S
' investigation ' was conducted from beginning to end.
But there is perhaps even a greater stain on the reputation of
the S.P.R. than this hasty promulgation of the verdict before
even the evidence was completed, much less submitted to the
defendant. This further stain is that neither Mme. Blavatsk)'
herself nor any other witness for the defence was ever allowed
to see the incriminating letters. How would such a proceeding
have been treated in a court of law · and what credence can be
given to evidence thus withheld fro; the defence?
Mr._Hodgson d~votes more than twenty pages of his Report
to _a_rrunu_te
analysis and comparison of Mme. Blavatsky's band·
wntmg with those of the reputed Mahatma letters and he gives
two sheets of fascimilereproductions to illustrate his conclusions
th
a~
th
ey are identical. Re does not give any analysis or c01
!1
•
parison °ftheBlavatsky-Coulo-mblette1·s,
nor doeshegive a,nyjascfniile
reproductions._The fact is hardly believable, for these are the
le~ters on which the accusation of trickery is based ; yet everJ'
thmg that could give the defence any chance of dealing with tbe!ll
1
See TJ,c Occult World P/ienomena and the S.P.R., by A. P. Sinnett.
l
REPORT : HANDWRITING EVIDENCE 41
is rigorously suppressed ! This fact by itself is qt1ite sufficient
from a judicial point of view to dismiss the whole case; but what
can we say of the ' honourable ' gentlemen of the S.P.R. ?
In cases of forgery such as this the evidence respecting the
paper on which the documents in question are written, and even
the ink with which they are written, is of material importance.
There is not in the Report a single scrap of evidence with respect
to these, nor even a mention of it. \,Veare, I think, entitled to
assume that there were substantial reasons why these letters were
withheld from the defence, and this question of the paper might
very possibly have been one of them.
Another point with which Mr. Hodgson does not deal is the
difference between the illiterate French which appears in the
letters and the educated French which Mme. Blavatsky wrote.
Mr. Hodgson says on p. 208 that he bad " circumstantial
evidence offered by Theosophists in proof of their being forgeries".
But that evidence he has suppressed ; there is not a scrap of it
in the Report. He merely says that he has ' considered' it. He
gives pages of theosophical evidence in the Report in the matter
of phenomena, to give the impression that he is being fair to both
parties; but it does not take much perspicacity to perceive that
he only does this when he thinks he can show a :flawin the
evidence. But this ~uppression of everything in connexion
with the forged letters is not merely dishonest but is legally fatal
to their l)eing accepted as genuine.
But what is Mr. Netherclift's evidence as an ' expert' worth ?
What is the evidence of any handwriting expert worth ?
The Evening Standard for July 15th 1926reported Mr. Justice
Swift as having said in a case which he tried on that day:
" There are no experts on handwriting, although I know some
people who come here and claim to be handwriting experts."
The worthlessness oJ such ' expert ' evidence has often been
shown in legal cases, as well as the conflicts of 0pinion between
the 'experts' themselves. As regards Mr. Netherclift's expert-
ness, we find that Mr. Montague Williams, Q.C.,says in his b?ok:
!eaves of a Life (V01.II, p. 134)," I never was much of a believer
In experts in handwriting. I have examined, and more frequently
cross-examined Chabot Netherclift and all the experts of the
clay, and have
1
nearly always caught them tripping. In fact, in
my opinion they are utterly unreliable." ..
As against Mr. Netherclift, however,.we may place the opiruon
of Herr Ernst Schutze, Caligra.phist to the Court of the Emperor
-,.
42 ,¥AS SHE A CHARLATAN?
of Germany. Some specimens of Mme. Blavatsky's handwriting,
together with some letters from the l\fal~atm~s.'were st~bmitted to
lrim by Mr. G. Gebhard. Herr Schutze s opm1.on_
w~s m,,each and
every case that there was "not the remotest s1m1lanty . 1
Mr. J. D. B. Gribble was the ' expert ' who examined the
Blavatsky-Coulomb letters on behalf of the Missionaries, and gave
it as his opinion that they were written by Mme. Blavatsky.
But when he came to examine the' K. H.' letters he gave it as his
opinion that there was no resemblance. In his Report of a11
Examination, etc., p. 28, he says :
" On the 3rd of OctoberI again went to Adyar, accompanied by a
native gentleman. I explained that all that I was concerned in was
the genuinenessof the letters, and I asked if I could be shown some
other Mahatmamessages. Severalwereshownto me, somepurporting
to have been written by Koot Hoomi,some by another Mahatma, and
others by a Chela. I certainly saw three different handwritings, and
I am bound to say that in noneof these did I notice any of the peculiar
characteristicsI have mentionedin the report. Koot Hoomi's hand-
writing is very peculiar, upright and somewhat round .. It is not a
running hand."
Any one can now examine this handwriting of K. H. in The
Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnett, published in r923, where a
facsimile is given. The internal evidence in this inestimable
volume is sufficient to show, without any disputable handwriting
evidence, that they could not have been written by Mme.
Blavatsky, though even in this matter there will doubtless be
sceptics who wish to think, and therefore will think, the
contrary.
It might be as well to conclude this criticism as to the value
of the Blavatsky-Coulomb letters with the following letter frorn
~r. A. 0. Hume, C.B., published in the Calcutta Statesman at the
~ime0 ~ the· exposure '.. Mr. Hume was a high government official
m India, ~ndhad b~enm the first instance deeply interested in the
Theosoph1~l tea_chmgs. He had witnessed several of the pheno-
mena_described m Mr. Sinnett's Occult World, and is repeatedlY
m~ntioned as an arch-sceptic in The Mahatma Letters to A. P. 1
Smnett.
The following is his letter :
"_Sir,-I have seenan article in the Times of India, referring to
certam letters alleged to have been written by Mme. Blavatsky to
Mme.Coulomb,and your brief notice of the same. I desire to warn
your readers and the public generallyagainst accepting these supposed
1
See A. P. Sinnett's It1cid1mls in tl:e Life of Madame Blavatsky, Appeo<li"•
REPORT: HANDWRITING EVIDENCE 43
letters as altogether genuine. I can do this with the better grace that
all connexion between myself, Mme. Blavatsky, Col. Olcott, Mr.
Damodar, has long since ceased. I was unable to approve of many
things in the conduct of the Society and its Journal, and hence, though
still warmly sympathizing in its avowed objects, I have, for the last
two years or more, been only a nominal member of the Theosophical
Society. It is wholly without bias therefore that I advise all persons
interested in the question to suspend their judgrnents as to the authen-
ticity of these supposed letters. I will not now raise the question as
to whether Mme. Blavatsky is capable of participating in foolish
frauds, such as these letters would make her appear to have directed.
All I desire to point out is•this: Mme. Blavats!?.yis no fool; on the
contrary, as al1 who know her, be they friends or foes, will admit,
she is an exceptionally clever and far-sighted woman, with a remark-
ably keen perception of character. Would such a woman ever give
a person like Mme. Coulomb the entire power over her future that the
writing of such letters involves ? Or, agaill, say she had, in some
mad mood, written such letters, would she have come to an open
rupture with the holder of them? Parts of the letters may be genuine
enough; one passage cited has a meaning quite different from that
in which the Ti-mesof India accepts it, and, believe me, Mme.Blavatsky
is far too shrewd a woman to have ever written to any one anything
that could convict her of fraud." ALLAN Hu~m
Mr. Hodgson says on p. 274 of his Report that : " Latterly,
and partly in consequence of the evidence I ·wasable to lay before
him (Mr. Hume), he came to the conviction that the letters in
question were actually written by Mme. Blavatsky."
On p. 275, however, he says: " Mr. Hume's position at
present is that, despite all the frauds perpetrated, there have been
genuine phenomena, and 'that, though of a low order, Mme.
Blavatsky really had and has Occultists of considerable though
limited powers behind her; that It H. is a real entity, but by
no means the powerful and godlike being he has been painted, and
that he has had some share, directly or indirectly-though what
Mr. Hume does not pretend to say-in the production of the
K. H. Letters."
Fortunately we have now in The Mahatma Letters to A. P.
Simiett a means of forming a more correct estimate of the per-
sonality, powers and claims of ' K. H.' than was the case at that
t· • '
1me.
According to the editor of The Cliristian CollegeMagazine
(October 1884) Mme. Coul@mbdid not communicate with him
until the 9th August ; s0 that it would ap!])earthat it took her
from the 18th May, when she was dismissed, to that date to
--
44 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
prepare her forged documents. Is it likely that she would have
wasted all that time if the documents had been genuine and
already to her hand ?
The editor's statement is somewhat disingenuous. It does
not preclude Mme. Coulomb's previous negotiations with the
pad1·is,which she had certainly had. The editor does not denyI
this; he merely says: " It is probable that, had there been
any previous negotiations between Mme Coulomb and the padris,I
such as the Mahatma mentions, we should have heard of it.''
But, in any case, why did Mme. Coulomb lose nearly three
~onths before exploding her 'exposme'?
Summing up the evidence as to the genuineness of these
alleged Blavatsky-Coulomb letters we must say that on the
followinggrounds we must conclude not merely that there is no
proof of their being genuine, but that the weight of evidence goes
to show that they were clever forgeries in which scraps of actual
letters had been incorporated with spurious and compromising
material:
(1) There is no evidence apart from that of the handwriting
' experts' that the letters were genuine.
(2) Handwriting ' expert ' evidence is valueless.
(3) Mme.Coulomb is known to have been collecting for some)
years every scrap of stray writing or letters that she could
get hold of.
(4) M. Coulomb's handwriting is said to have been very like
that of Mme. Blavatsky.
(5) Mr. Hodgson does not give any facsimile reproductions of
the letters in question.
(6) The Coulombs were known to have been very shady
eharacters, and to have been desirous of revenging them·
selves for their dismissal.
(7) Mme. Coulomb's letters to Mme. Blavatsky do not sub·
stantiate the forged letters.
(8) Mme. Blavatsky as" an exceedingly clever fraud " would
never have placed herself in the hands of the Coulombs
as these letters represent.
(9) The Coulombsdid not produce the letters till nearly three l
months after they left head-quarters.
(ro) The l~tte~s were never submitted to the defence for I
exammation.
. T~s last fact would, apart from anything else, necessitate our
reJection of the whole case as put forward by the S.P.R.
M. SQLOVYOFF AND ' A MODERN PRIESTESS OF ISIS '
As I have already mentioned (p. 6) the S.P.R. adopted this
book of M. Solovyoff as being confirmatory evidence supporting
the conclusions of their former Report ten years previously.
Why they should have done this unless they felt the weakness
of that Report is not at all evident ; indeed, they must assuredly
have been lost to all sense of proportion-one might even say,
to all sense of decency-to have sponsored a book like Solovyoff's,
which not merely deals with the phenomena, and with M.
Solovyoff's own personal relations with Mme. Blavatsky in the
dishonest manner which I shall now indicate, but which also
gives the most ludicrous caricatures of the personality of Mme.
Blavatsky, Col. Olcott, and other theosophical personages. In
these representations he gives details which are not merely
intended as caricatures to give a journalistic spice to his work
in order to catch the popular fancy and make it a saleable work,
but he further descends to vulgar insinuations about Mme.
Blavatsky of the vilest kind. He could of course rely upon the
general ignorance of the Russian public, when the book was
published in the first instance ; but it is a book which the
Committee of the S.P.R. certainly ought at that time to have
recognized as a worthless melodramatic presentation, calculated
merely to tickle the popular imagination and ignorant prejudice.
They ought also to have recognized that the book was written
for the express purpose of discrediting and slandering Mme.
Blavatsky after she was dead by a man who was her bitterest
enemy. It is but one more instance of their own willingness to
strike by any means.
Now let us see what the book is worth.
We find (p. 97) that in October or November 1884M.Solovyoff
had already determined that :
" 'WhatevercameI wouldcollectsuch proofsof all these deceptions
as should be sufficientnot only for me but for all these blind dupes
{theosophists
in Paris). I wouldnolongergiveway to the involuntary
sympathy and pity, which, in spite of everything, still attracted me
to Helena Petrovna. I would in the first place deal only with Mme.
Blavatsky the thief of souls, who was trying to steal my soul too."
He then shamelessly confesses that in order tha:t Mme.
Blavatsky should have no suspicion that he was trying to ruin
45
46 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN ?
her he would still pose as her friend. The sentence which I have
qu;ted above we shall find, however, to be merely a blind to
cover up the undoubted fact that at the time to which it refers
he was an ardent believer. Now let us see.
Some six months afterwards (June 12th 1885) he wrote the
following letter : 1
.. DEAR HELENA PETROVNA,
"The last two weekshave not passed in vain. Crookes and Sinnett
have been here. I have made their acquaintance; but the thingis
that all is now arranged and prepared to overwhelm, here at least-
that is in the Paris press-all this rabble of Coulombs and all the
asses, to what learned society soever they may belong, who couldfor
a moment pay attention to her abominable pamphlet. The pamphlet
has produced universal indignation here, and I have not even had to
defend you to anybody-so that after all this dirty intrigue, they have
only increased the sympathy felt for you. . . . Ah, if I could only
see you." Your sincerely devoted and affectionate
Vs. SoLovvoFF
It will be seen that this letter has a direct reference to the
Coulomb scandal. Taken in conjunction with the following
letter it is impossible to credit that it was otherwise than a
genuine expression of opinion at the time it was written. The
following was written still later (October 8th 1885) (p. 288):
., DEAR HELENA PETROVNA,
"Which is the better, to write at random, or to hold one's tongue
a~d wor~ for the good of one's correspondent? ... I have madeI
fnends with Mme.Adam, and talked a great deal to her about you;
I have greatly interested her, and she has told me that her Revueis
open not only to ~heosophybut to a defence of yourself personally if
necessary. I prmsed up Mme. de Morsier to her and at the same
time there was another gentleman there who spok; on your behalf.in
the same tone,.and Mme. Adam wished to make acquaintance witb
Mme. de_M~rsier,who will remain in Paris as the official means of
com~umcation between me and the Noiwelle Revue. Yesterday the
rneetmg of the two ladies took place; our Emilie was quite in rap·
tures: • • •.In ~y case this ~ very good. To-day I passed t~e
mormn? wit~ Richet, and again talked a great deal about you, lll
c:nexion \~th Myersand the Psychical Society. r can say positivelY
t t J aoni-incetf
Richet of the reality ofyour personal power and of //le
Phenom~nawinch Proceedfrom you. He put me three questions
categonc_ally. To the first two I answered affiFlllatively· with respect
to
th
e third I said that I should be in a position to answe; affirmativelY
Lea~SeJii~prn:a: in _his book as translated for the S.P.R. by Mr. Wa.lte:
Bl?,~tsky's s1iter Mm
bemJgl~bstrkyac~
from a Pa~phlet published by MO!
• c. e ovs , in reply to Solovyofl's book.
'A MODERN PRIESTESS OF ISIS' 47
without any trouble, in two or three months. But I do not doubt
that I shall answer affrrmatively, and then, you will see ! there will
be such a triumph that all the psychists will be wiped out. ... Yes
soit willbe ; for you did not ,treat me as a doll ? . . . I start the day
after to-morrowfor St. Petersburg.... What will happen? "
Yours cordially devoted
Vs. SoLovYOFF
Even Mr. Leaf has to admit with reference to this letter that :
" This does, so far as I can judge, imply a real inconsistency in
M. Solovyoff's narrative." There are numerous other 'incon-
sistencies ' which can be pointed out, but I think that these will
sufficehere.
With regard to the phenomena, however, there are two
respecting which M. Solovyoff published accounts which show
that he accepted their genuineness at the time that they took
place, but which he afterwards attempts to explain away. In
Light, July r884, there was published an account of a remarkable
clairvoyant feat by Mme. Blavatsky which was witnessed and
attested by six witnesses, M. Solovyoff being one of them.
Solovyoff afterwards sent an account to the Russian journal
Rebus. He finishes his account with the following words:
" The circumstances under which the phenomenonoccurred in its
smallestdetails, carefully checked by myself, do not leave in me the
smallestdoubt as to its genuineness and reality. Deception or fraud
in this particular case are entirely out of the question" (see Sinnett.
Incidents, p. 273).
The second case was one in which one of the Masters appeared
to him astrally during the night at a hotel in Elberfel<l when he
wason a visit to H. P. B. Notwithstanding that Mme. Blavatsky
told him the next morning that the Master had been to see him,
he endeavours in his book to make out that the whole matter
~as an hallucination or a dream. The original account appears
m full in the S.P.R. Report (p. 393); and it is most certainly
that of a man who at the time fully believed in the genuineness
of the visitation. Mrs. Sidgwick in commenting upon it on
behalf of the S.P.R., rejects the theory of hallucinati0n, and
ac:e?ts that of dream, an<dafterwards naively remarks : " Since
":1bng the above I have learnt that, owing to events which have
since ~ccur-red,M. Solovyoff no longer regards his experienee as
affording evidenee of occult agency" (Italics mine). In other
words: if you have afterwards decided that 'a man is a liar, you
lllust reject every previous incident in which he told you the truth !
So much for the value of M. Solovyoff's work. I have only
---
48 ,VAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
dealt with a very small portion of it as bearing directly upon the
s.P.R. Report. To illustrate fully its un~ruthiul and s~andalou.
1
nature would require numerous extracts wluch cannot be givenhere.
Mme.Blavatsky's own attitude towards M. Solovyoff maybe
very briefly illustrated by two short extracts from letters written
by her to members of her own family. ,
In 1884 she wrote to her aunt, Mme. Fadeef :
" It's not long sinGeI have come to London, but I have already
got two such pitiful letters. The only thing he (Solovyoff)asksol
meis to care for him and not forget him. He says he has never loved
any one outside of his family as he loves poor old me " (The Path,
New York, Vol. X, p. 76).
In 1885 she wrote to her sister, Mme. Jelihovsky:
" I am travellingwith him (Solovyoff)in Switzerland. I really
cannot understand what makes him so attached to me. As a matter
offact I cannothelphim in the least. I can hardly help him to realize
any ofhishopes. Poorman, I am so sorry for him" (Tbicl.,p. 108).
The real fact was that Solovyoff was of a neurotic, unbalanced
and somewhat psychic nature; that he became violently imbued
in the first instance with the idea of becoming a chela, and oi
thereby acquiring occult knowledge and phenomenal powers;
that Mme. Blavatsky recognized his utter unfitness to take even~
the first steps in Occultism, but that nevertheless she gave billl
his chance, though she refused him the direct communications
which he so eagerly desired. The result was inevitable, for ii
is an occult law which operates in all cases, of those who contaci
these occult forces, that the inner nature of the man corne5
violently to the surface, Whether for g0od or for evil. Jn
Solovy~ff's ~ase-as in others which could be given-it w~
the e~il_which predominated, and the result is seen in bJS
repudiation of all that he once accepted, and his bitter attack
on the woman who had endeavoured to save him from hilll 5elf.
B~t wha~ of the S.P.R. who fathered the English translati 0\
of th1s obvrnusly venomous attack on a woman whose w~rk,
becomesmore and more appreciated as time goes on and in wbicb
the aut~or stands self-condemned as a liar ? Mr.' H. Sidg-vick
who wntes the Preface on behalf of the S.P.R., says that:
"~uch English readersas were likely to be interested in lea.mi~
any~g more about Mme. Blavatsky would not so much de~
addition.alproof that she was a charlatan-a question already judg
anf
dhde~tded-but rather some explanation of the remarkable succe55
o er unposture."
'A MODERN PRIESTESS OF ISIS' 49
Th~s '~xplanation ' he finds in "Mr. Solovyoff's entertaining
narrative .
"Entertaining "-yes. That is precisely w11atit was intended
to be for those whose appreciation of the entertainingnature of
a book increases in proportion as it is scandalous. But we should
not have expected to find the learned members of the S.P.R.
Committee in this category. It is simply amazing that any one
with a reputation to lose should have lent their approval to a
work of this nature ; more particularly because its author waited
till Mme. Blavatsky was dead before launching his attack.
In the recent case of Capt. Peter Wright v. Viscount Gladstone,
Mr. Justice Avory said in his summing up :
"Lord Gladstone used the word 'coward'. The jury shouldask
themselves,' Is not the man who slanders the dead a "coward" ? '
'What is the differencebetween stabbing a man in the back-which
is what a coward would do-and slandering a dead man in a way
which it must be known would bring the greatest pain upon his
descendants, knowing it would be almost impossibleteclmicallyto
disprovethe charge."
That is practically the position in which the S.P.R. Council
put themselves by fathering lVI.Solovyoff's scandalous book.
And their plea for this publicity is that the book is' entertaining' !
Mr. Sidgwick in his apology for thus publishing the book does
not venture to guess " whether the Theosophical Society willlast
much longer". He evidently thinks that it willnot. But at all
events we can say to-day, that subsequent history has given the
lie as to either this book having ' explained' the "remarkable
success of Mme. Blavatsky's imposture "-i.e., Theosophy in all
its aspects as she presented it to the world-or the S.P.R. Report
as having "judged and decided" that she was a charlatan.
So intent have these learned fraud-hunters been to prove
that Mme. Blavatsky's phenomenal powers could not be c~edited
because they were altogether outside the range of therr own
experience at that time, that they have entirely overlooke~ the
fact that the ' explanation ' lay in the nature of the teachmgs,
and not at all in the per.sonality of the teacher.
It will readily be seen, indeed, that the blind confi~enceand
~onceit of these Psychical Researchers in their own JU?gments
is ~lrnost pathetic ; for they do not even h<:5itate~opublish facts
~hich flatly contradict their own conclusions, smce ~hey ?ave
, no difficulty ' in explaining away these facts as bemg either
hallucinations ', or ' impersonations ', or-as a last resource-
'dreams·.
......
THE REPORT: CONCLUSIONS
I must now deal with the Conclusions put forward by tbi
Committeeof the S.P.R. These Conclusionsinvolve the followin
5
1
questions:
(1) The question of fraud on the part of Mme. Blavatsky a~i
others in the case of the particular phenomena dealt with11
the Report.
With regard to this I may remark in the first place that
every one is entitled to form his own opinion on the basis ofth'.
Report provided they have ge11,uinely
studied and analysed tlue
Report, and have also made themselves acquainted with _the
evidence on the other side. How many who have so glibly
quoted the conclusionsof the Report have ever done this?
In the second place I would remark, that the conclusion that
"no genuinepsychical phenomena whatever will be found am~ng
the pseudo-mysteriesof the Russian lady" (p. 317), is one whic~
not merely goes far beyond the scope of the Report itself, but:
absolutely negatived by innumerable witnesses of phenomelli
with which the Report does not deal at all. This, however,~
Mr. Hodgson's personal statement. The Committee themselvei
are more guarded in their conclusions. They say (p. 205) '' as1
~
the &orrectness
ofMr.Hodgson'sexplanation ofparticular marvels
they {the Committee) "do not feel called upon to express a.llY
~efi.ni~e
conclusion''. Really! But if Mr. Hodgson's 'explan;
hons . cannot be definitely accepted, how on earth can t
Comnuttee pronounce any judgment at all-much less tbl
sweepingcondemnation of Mme. Blavatsky to which they ha\~
committed themselves?
The answer to this question is to be found in the fact th31
th~ ease was_so absolutely prejudged that the Committee afl
blind to the mcongruities of their own statements. t
(z) The question as to the existence or non-existence of th1
Masters or Mahatmas. I
In respect of this the Committeesay (p. 204
) "There is ~01
quentl! a very strong presumption that all the manreU~j
narratives put forward as evidence of the existence and ocC~
po~verof the M~atmas are to be explained as due either (a)~
deliberate deception carried out by or at the instigation of ]t1J11
REPORT: CONCLUSIONS 51
- ~~~
B}avatsky, or (b) to spont · l}S>Al~~~r hallucination, or
unconscious misrepresentat °-9-·
or ip:yentio'1i,.-4,
~ ,t the part of the
. " ./J'/ JI • -( ~ :c'•I('
witnesses. , ~v.: <.l~;'.l, .,\.l' ,,
Here again I must repifrk,d:h~t.' p~es.'iJ.m_µt+1'{1'
is not proof,
andthat when the Commiftee say·'!.'all th~_mar~ pus narratives",
they go far be;Yondthe sc'llipe...,...of
the ·R~pott. ,fl:.t
,a matter of fact
all the narratives are not~<U"yellous in any ?ehse of the term;
many are simple matter-of-'mf(-0:ptPtings '5Y~th
the Mahatmas in
the flesh. But then of course··'t.his~,a,p.-•friways
be 'easily' ex-
plained away on the theory of a confederate.
The Report itself mentions one such narrative, that of Mr.
Ramaswamier (p. 359), who recounts how he set out from
Darjeeling to cross the frontier into Tibet in order "to find the
Mahatmas-or Drn ". When he had come into Sikkhim be was
met by a solitary horseman, whom he immediately recognized as
the Mahatma' M ', and with whom he then had a long talk.
As this meeting with the Mahatma could not be attributed to
a' dream '-it was between 8 and 9 a.m.-Mr. Hodgson can see
" no £mprobabiljty i1i siipposing that the Mahatma was personated
by one of Mme. Blavatsky's confederates", Really and truly,
will not these fraud-hunters " strain at a gnat and swallow a
camel". We may say here, indeed, that we could perhaps find
no better example of the saying that 'extremes meet'. The
extreme of incredulity in this case is simply the extreme of
credulity; for they "see no improbability in supposing "-any-
thing rather than the straightforward narrative, which clearly
shows in this case that impersonation was out of the question.
But how in any case can the S.P.R. disprove the existence of
the Masters, Adepts, or Mahatmas? The existence of Adepts
and Initiates has been a matter well known to special students
all through the ages, not merely in the East but also in the West.
On_thegeneral principle of evolution we are boun? to accept of
their existence, even if we do not accept the evidence for the
existence of the particular ones with whom Mme. Blavatsky
Worked. This, indeed, was the way in which Mme. Blavatsky
represented the matter to me. She never asked me, nor any one
else so far as I am aware, to set aside our personal d0 ubts m the
matter so far as one's own experiem:e might not h~ve confirmed
that of others · much less did she-in Mr. Hodgson s words-ask
~ny one to r~nder " a profound obedience to the behests of
llnagina:r:yMahatmas''. .
Mme. Blavatsky only brought to the notice of the world 10
general the existence of a trans-Himalayan Centre; but the
52 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
reception by the world in general of that information wasno;
such as to encourage any other of the numerous Centres in oth{I
parts of the world to authorize a similar disclosure. .
On this point I might refer my readers to the evidence~
Louis Claude de Saint-Martin (1743-1803). What he says is~l
applicable both to Mme. Blavatsky herself and to The Sec1i:
Doctrine which she wrote, that I may be excused from quoth11
it here. It is to be found in Mr. A. E. Waite's work on "'Th:
Unknown Philosopher" (p. 82) : 1
"For such an enterprise as that which I have undertaken mon
than common resources are necessary. Without specifying th0,:
which I employ, it willbe enough to say that they connect withtlH
essentialnature of man, that they have always been known to som
among mankind from the prime beginning of things, and that the)
will never be withdrawn wholly from the earth while thinking beiiw
exist thereon. Thence have I derived my evidence, and thencemJ
conviction upon truths the search after ·which engrosses the entiri
universe. After this avowal, if I am accused of disseminatingai
unknowndoctrine,at least I must not be suspected of being its inventor
for if it connectwith the nature of man, not only am I not its inventor
but it wouldhave been impossiblefor me to establish any other on,
solid basis. The principles here expounded are the true key to~
t?e allegoriesand all the mysterious fables of every people, the Prun
hve source of every kind of institution, and actually the pattenic_
th?se laws which direct and govern the universe, constituting-~
beings. In other words, they serve as a foundation to all that eXJ5
and to all that operates, whether in man and by the hand of rnan
whether outside man and independently oi his will. Hence, in ~
absenceof these principles there can be no real science and it isb)
r:ason of having forgotten these principles that the e~th has b~
~':en ove: to errors. But although the light is intended for alley~
~t~s~ertamthat all eyes are not so constituted as to be able to behol,
It m its splendour. It is for this reason tl1at the small number ofIll~
who are depositaries of the truths which I proclaim are pledged{,
prudence and discret· b h ,,
ion Yt e most formal engagements.
0
Mme_-
Blavatsky was the chosen agent during the last quart!!
f
th
e nmeteenth century by one particular Centre 0f " the s!1la
numbe~,of_men who are depositaries of the truths" thus colt
nected ~vith the essential nature of man " • and her phenorneJll
~rely disclosed a very small portion of that essential ,natw
e sequel showed very plainly that "it is certain that all e~
are not so constituted as to be able to behold it in its splendollf
1
It is taken from D E "'"di1
of 1782. es rreursetdela Ve,rita,PartI,pp.5,6,7,S,10. s:, -
REPORT : CONCLUSIONS 53
Nevertheless, thousands did at least discern that the light was
~here, and set about the work of training themselves to perceive
1t more clearly. Hence the success of the Theosophical Movement
inaugurated by iv~me.Bla~atsky, but by no means dependent
upon her personality, adnuttedly defective in many respects for
the work entrusted to her. On p. 263 of The Mahatma Letters
to A. P. Sinnett, Mahatma ' M ' says :
" One or two of us hoped that the world had so far advanced
intellectually, if not intuitionally, that the occult doctri.nemight gain
an intellectual acceptance, and the impulse given for a new cycleof
occultresearch. Others-wiser as it wouldnowseem-held diHerently,
but consent was given for the trial.... In casti.ngabout we found
in Americaa man to stand as leader-a man of great moral courage,
unselfish, and having other good qualities. He was far from being
the best, but (as Mr. Hume speaksin H.P. B.'s case),he was the best
one available. ·with him we associateda womanof most exceptional
and wonderful endowments. Combined with them she had strong
personaldefects, but just as she was, there wasno secondto her living
fit for this work. We sent her to America,brought them together-
and the trial began. From the first both sheand he were.givenclearly
to understand !hat the issue lay entirely with themselves."
For those who deny the existence of this higher knowledge-
well : who can open the eyes of those who do not wish to see ?
(3) The question as to whether the letters which Mme.
Blavatsky asserted came from the Mahatmas did so in reality,
or whether they were her own production.
It is not of so much importance here to deal with the corn•
paratively trivial messages with which the Report is principally
concerned, as with the mass of correspondence whioh Mr. Sin~ett
obtained, and on the basis of which he wrote EsotericBuddhism.
We are to.day fortunately in a much better position to form an
opinion on this matter since the publication in 1923 of a Volume
of these letters which were found among Mr. Sinnett's papers
after his death, and from which the above abstract is taken.
There are 129 letters in all. There is nothing to show h~w these
were individually received, but there is a very great deal m _them
bearing upon the occult means of their production and delivery.
This is too large a <auestionto enter into here, and the reader
must be referred to the letters themselves. A good deal of light
will thereby be thFown upon the handwriting question.
But the real crux of the whole matter rests upon the internal
evidence 0£ the Letters. Are they of such a nature that Mm~.
Blavatsky could not possibly have been their author P To this
--..
54 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?.
question I must answer, that I do not see how any one with any
knowledgeof the circumstances in general, or of Mme. Blavatsky's
characteristics and resources, can possibly think that she could
have written them herself, consciously, ' out of her own head'.
There may of course be exceptions in some of the Letters; but
in the great bulk of them the internal evidence is of such a nature
I
that it is impossible for me to think that Mme. Blavatsky could
have been their original author.
There will doubtless be some sceptics who will boggle even
at that. It is not a matter that cari easily be proved ; or perhaJE
it cannot be proved at all. Every one must form their own
judgment. Here again, however, I must point out that whether
Mme.Blavatsky did or did not write them wholly and fully and
consciously,it is the teachings which they contain, the information
itself, the philosophy, the cosmology, the anthropology, and the
occult PATH of initiation therein set forth, which gives the value
to these Letters-let their immediate source be what it may.
The Letters make no claim to be infallible. The circumstances
under which many of them were dictated and transmitted make
mistakes and errors almost inevitable, and doubtless any critic
who wishes to disparage will find many points on which he can
lay his hand. Moreover-as the Letters themselves state over
and over again-the whole teaching cannot be given out, and
[
many of the statements are deliberate ' blinds ', concealing, and
yet disclosing to the initiated, the inner truth.
TheseLetters are in fact a magnificent addition to our infonna·
tion respecting the fundamental principles and teachings 01
Theosophy as set forth in the literature which H. P. BlavatskY
gave to the world. If these teachings are inherently sound, no
attacks on the character of the teacher can make them othenvise.
An acknowledgment of them in academic literature and circles
c~n hardly be expected as yet; but any one who is acquainted
~ith ,thechange which is taking place even in the most conserva·I
ti~e . seat~ of _learning' cannot fail to recognize that the nell'
Pi:tnciplesm scienceand philosophy are coming nearer and nearer
WJ.
th :a?h re-adjustment to those laid down in The Secret Doctritte-
In rehgion, the fundamental teaching of Theosophy is THEwvni£
NATURE OF MAN; or, in the words of the Upanishads, THATAJ.f
THo~. To what extent Christian theology is approximating to
that IS t~o large a question to enter into here. eI
(4~Fmally, Mr. Hodgson finds himself confronted with tb
quest!on as to ~me. Blavatsky's motive for spendin.g "so :t11ai
labonous days In such a fantastic work of imposture " (p. 3):3)1
REPORT: CONCLUSIONS 55
Well, as :rheos~phy is not " a fantastic work of imposture ", the
problem 1sof !us own making. However, let us see what is his
solution.
He rejects in turn the hypotheses of " religious mania ", of
"the sordid motive of pecuniary gain", and of" a morbid yearning
for notoriety". Well, we must be thankful at all events that he
has granted so much. But what remains ? The greatest Mare's
Nest of the whole of this wonderful Report : the theory that it
was all done-because slie was a Russian spy !
How or in what manner the phenomena which he has dealt
with could further her plans in this respect he does not attempt"
to show ; but perhaps it may be sufficienthere to set onedetractor
against the other. M. Solovyoff deals very drastically wi.ththis
wonderful discovery of Mr. Hodgson. On p. n4 of his book
he says:
" This (spy theory) he had to prove, and to prove exactly as he
proved her fraudulent phenomenaand all her other deceptions; yet
hehas no evidenceof any sort, forit is impossibleto regardas evidence
the fragments he quotes from her writings, from which no serious
man could draw a conclusionof the sort. ... I-I. P. Blavatsky was
not a spy."
Having thus so kindly cut the ground from beneath Hodgson's
feet, he proceeds to do the same with regard to the :findingof the
Committee that Col. Olcott was not a party to Mme.Blavatsky's
' fraudulent phenomena ' ; but with that I need not deal.
Perhaps the one thing which somewhat redeems the character
of the S.P.R. Committee is that they did exonerate Col. Olcott
from any complicity in fraudulent representations or phenome~a.
Thus Mr. Hodgson is left entirely ' in the air ' as to any motive
for this elaborate structure of fraud which he had endeavoured
to erect with so many hypotheses as to what ,might ltave been
the case.
However, with M. Solovyoff's testimony to the value of Mr.
Hodgson's judicial faculty and reasoning powers I shall be
content to conclude this survey and criticism of THE GREAT
~ARE's NEST of the Report of the Society for Psychical R.esea~ch
in their attempt " to investigate the phenomena connected Wlth
the Theosophical Society ".
Ex nihilo nihil fit.
CONCLUDING REMARKS
I have shown that the Committee of the S.P.R. "appointed
to investigate the Phenomena connected with the Theosophical
Society", never investigated the phenomena at all. That, more-
over, they practically left the investigation of the ~vide~1ce
for
the phenomena in the hands of one man, whose quahficahons a;
Counsel for the prosecution may perhaps be admitted, but who
otherwise sho'vvedhimself to be utterly incompetent not merely
to understand the nature of the phenomena and the psychological
problem involved in the personality of Mme. Blavatsky, but also
utterly lacking in any judicial faculty, and even in the powerto
form rational conclusions from the evidence before him.
I have shown further that the Committee actually, with th,
most indecent haste, adopted and promulgated Mr. Hodgson'i
conclusions before even his Report was completed ; and thal
they not merely withheld from the defence the incriminating
Blavatsky-Coulomb forged letters, but closed the case altogetbei
on the basis of Mr. Hodgson's incomplete Report, and stigmatiz~
the defendant as a fraud and a charlatan without giving her,orr
any one on her behalf, a chance of analysing the evidence put
forward in the Report, and replying thereto. I
I have shown also that ten years after the Report was printed
in their Proceedings, the Society gave their i11iprimatitr to 311
j
"entertaining" but scandalous and obviously untruthful b~
which was~ further slander on a dead woman, who by that tiJn'
at. l~ast might have been recognized as the pioneer of a grea:
~pmtual movement; whose literary work had been large!)
mcreased and widely acknowledged; and with whose teachint,
every advanc~ in science, in philosophy, in archaeology, anc
anthropology is seen to come more and more into line. .
One ca:1not,then, but speculate as to what would have ~~I -
the result if the S.P.R., instead of thus rejecting and stigrnat!Zl~j
:
on the most superficialgrounds the wholly exceptional phenoJJle~•
pres~nte~ to them, had treated the matter sympatbeticallY:~:
albeit with evf_!rynatural reservation of judgment-and ~3.1 ;
~estowe~ upon it the same amount of patient care and inves~I
twn \~hich the~ afterwards bestowed upon certain mediUJllS~
•
Eus~pia Pall~dino, for example. The haste with which tJt' :
published their conclusions, indeed, shows quite clearly that
CONCLUDING- REMARKS 57
wholematter was prejudged. They had not the wit to see that
evensupposin~ fraud to have been proved in somecases,that only
added to the interest of the problem as to how Mme. Blavatsky
the' fraud' ~~uld be the same person as' H.P. B.', the pioneer
of a great spmtual movement. At the very least it presented a
psychologicalproblem of the greatest possibleinterest : a problem
of double personality if of nothing else. They had themselves
absolved Mme. Blavatsky from all worldly motives of pecuniary
benefit or even of notoriety; and Hodgson could only evolve
out of his imagination a ridiculous 'Russian Spy' theory to
account for all her labodous years of sacrifice.
If, then, they had treated the matter sympathetically, and
had taken the testimony of Col. Olcott and others as to how
Isis Unveiledwas written (seeOldDiary Leaves,Vol. I, pp. 202 ff.);
if instead of seeking for a ' fraud ' they had recognized the
spirit1talnature of :Mme.Blavatsky's work, and had sought for
the source of her inspiration ; if, indeed, they had merely taken
her as an interesting psychological problem of an altogether
exceptional nature ; they might have discovered that the investi-
gation led them to a rich mine of information which would have
advanced the science of psychology by many decades, and would
have thrown a vivid light on the problems of human personality
in many of their phases both ordinary and extraordinary-from
a nom1al point of view-not to mention higher possibilities of
development and evolution which are known only to those who,
having recognized these possibilities, have not turned away from
the evidence offered, or the method of obtaining confirmatory
proof in their own personal experience.
Eighteen years afterwards, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, o~e of t~e
Committee responsible for the S.P.R. Report, _pubhsh:d his
voluminous work The Hmna1i Pers011alitya11d its S14
rvwal 01
Bodily Death. That work itself can be said to contain much
which, had Mr. Myers been acquainted with it at the tim~ o£the
~eport, would certainly have led him to take a gre~ter mtereSt
tn, and altogether a different view of, the personality of _Mme.•
Blavatsky. But what would the book itself ha~e be_enif _Mr.
Myershad devoted to her the same amount of patient mvestiga-
r • · h • t other
ion and reservation of conclus10nswhich he as given ° .
:nuch less significant cases, even after fraud had been admitted
lS part of the problem ? . f
Well: when all is said and done, what happens 1s always or
:he best. Perhaps we may be allowed, therefore, to ~ake here
•0me conjectures of our own as to why this thing happened as
58 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
it did. In the first place, perhaps the world was not readyfo
the officialrecognition which might have resulted from the ruo
sympathetic treatment which I have mentioned. Perhaps t~
world is not ready even yet. Perhaps the very fact of the S.P.
Report being so adverse was part of a larger ne~essity, guard~
against the premature ?1sclosure of matters wlu~h humanityJ
a whole was then, and IS as yet, unfitted to receive. I
Plotinus tells us : "This, therefore, is manifested by tl
mandate of the mysteries, ,vhi~~ ?rders that they shall n_ot
~
divulged to those who are ummtiated. For as that which
;_I
divine cannot be unfolded to the multitude this mandate forbi~
1
the attempt to elucidate it •toany one but him who is fortunate,
able to perceive it:• (Enn. VI, 9, II). There is plenty of evideo
to show that the same ' mandate' is in force to-clay. I har
quoted on p. 52 the testimony of Louis Claude de Saint-Marti
to the same effect. The Mahatma Letters to A. P. Sinnettai'I
full of the same warnings.
Physical science to-day recognizes itself as being on tl
borderland of a revolutionary discovery as to the nature ofinlc
atomic energy; the discovery of a reservoir of energy of such
tremendous nature that when compared with it our preSc
sources of energy are but playthings. Is humanity readyfi
that discovery? Most certainly not, for it would be immediat1
applied for destruction and war. But our modern scientists11
'
never admit_t~at there can be any Adepts in the world whokn~
all about this mter-atomic energy, and who can use it for ph_e
mena,suchas weresome of those which Mme. Blavatsky exhibit~
or that these Adepts have. in fact penetrated far beyond I!
Ether of science into the arcane region of Primordial Substano
and the nature of the great World-process.
Well: so be it. God knows what would have happene~:
tha~ knowledgehad been indisputably demonstrated to the sa~
!~chon of our learned Academies and Royal Societies. Perna~
. en, t~e S.P.R. Report served a useful and necessary pu~.
m hold.in~back premature disclosures in this region of phY51
Psychical _researchsimilarly is just on the borderland of
J
tremendous di~covery~s t? the inner nature and powers o_f
~"!1
we know as Mind. Mmd Is not something which each indiVldo
P?ssess_es
as_a little bit of his own personality associated wbt
witb_his t~nking faculty and physical brain. Nothing caJl
J
mamfested m the individual which is not Cos111lic
in its origill
nature, and ~nd is a tremendous Cosmic Force, as well a5t
mode of CosrrucSubstance, infinitely more potent than anYJ1l
CONCLUDING
REMARKS 59
physical force: He:e is a ?anger, therefore, which far outweighs
even the ~oss1bled1sc~venes of ph:ysicalscience. Already there
is a suffic'.ent ?ange: m th~ promiscuous dabbling by ignorant
and untrained_investigators in so-called spiritualistic phenomena,
whilst hypnotism and psycho-analysis also lie on the borderland
and introduce elements of the most undesirable, not to sa;
dangerous nature.
Here again the world is not ready; and who shall say what
might have been the result if the S.P.R. had taken up seriously
" the investigation of phenomena connected with the Theosophical
Society".
'Whilst, therefore, condemning the S.P.R. Committee for their
hasty, prejudiced, unjudicial, and unjust condemnation of a
pioneer in a region to which humanity as a whole must one day
advance, but into which as yet only a few are advanced enough
to enter, we must perhaps not regret on the whole that the
S.P.R. Report served to turn aside from this deeper quest what
we might call the orthodox or academic investigator ; and that
in so doing it perhaps saved the world-for the time being at all
events-from the appalling disasters which result, both to the
individual and to the race, from the misuse of occult forces.
Already at that time Mr. Sinnett had done more than enough
by the publication of his OcC1tlt
World to arouse an unhealthy
interest in phenomena, in wonders for their own sake ; for
always and ever there are those !vho are seeking merely after
signs and wonders. He himself was warned about this over and
over again.
In a passage I have already quoted (p. 53) Mahatma' M'says:
. "One or two of us hoped that the world had so_
far ~dvanc~d
mtellectually,if not intuitionally, that the Occultdoctrinemightgam
an intellectual acceptance, and the impulsegiven for a nc_w
cycleo,~
occultresearch. Others-wiser asit wouldnowseem-held differently.
That was written in 1882, three years before the S.P.R.
'investigations' : so that even at that time it would appear that
the effort had been pronounced a failure. The_S.P.R. R~port
only came as the culmination and seal of this failure-a failure,
be it noted, only so far as the world at large was concerned.
Perhaps H.P. B. bad already exceeded the powers ent:11ste_d
her, and the S.P.R. Report was merely her Karma; but ~fthis
Wasthe case it was due to the persistent demands of_
A. P. Smnett
and others for test phenomena, which they foolisb~y thou~ht
"Wouldconvince the scientific world and the public, despite
60 WAS SHE A CHARLATAN?
everything the Masters told them to the contrary. Perha
Mme. Blavatsky, the 'shell' (see Mahatma Letters, p. 256)w·
actually made to appear as a fraud and a charlatan because" ,
this ought to have been limited to an inner and very SECR.
circle" (see Mahatma Letters, p. 323). A careful study of n
Mahatma Letters throws much light upon these inner mattin
which can only be hinted at here. But perhaps also, whileMm
Blavatsky, the outer personality, chafed and raged under tu
stigma placed upon her, the real H. P. B. regarded the who£
matter with those calm, deep, far-seeing eyes which look outo·
us from her portraits as from a soul untouched by the passi~
shows and storms of this life : knowing that all that happens,
in accordance with immutable LAW; and knowing also that h·
(his) mission involved the crucifixion of the lower personality
involved that to the undiscerning eyes of those who could seec
deeper than the outer personality, that personality should evr.
appear to be a fraud and a charlatan.
Even thus are the great secrets of Man's inner nature a·
powers guarded and protected from the unworthy seekers aft.
signs and wonders, and from the premature discovery of th
powers by such as would use them without any regard for mor.
and spiritual laws.
H.P. B. was a mirror, strongly and truly reflecting exact~
what those who came to her were themselves in their own illll•
nature; and what they sought for, that they found.
The S.P.R. sought only for a fraud-and so, inevitably, th~
found one-or rather made one. And though there are s0.,
~o-day who would perpetuate this verdict, yet the world-W
1
influence of this great pioneer becomes more and more fi ,
establi~hed with every passing decade, as more and more i'.
recogmzedthat the TEACHINGS to which she directed our attentl
"comiect with the essential nature of Man "-and the UNIVE
Primed l>yJarro/d &. Sons Ltd. Norw-icli
