{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__hill___what_next.pdf","mytitle":"What Next","mylang":"de"}
WHAT NEKS*
Dictated by"
"C N."
thru the pencil of
Ethel P. Hill
Bon Voyage
AUTHOR'S EDITION
Illustrated by
CORINNE MALVERN
1927
Published by
COSMOS PUBLISHING CO.
BOULDER CREEK - CALIFORNIA
ERRATUM
First line, page 18, should read: My chief aim in
thus addressing—
Twelfth line, page 118, should read: spirit flashes
with the fleeting glory —
Spirit Picture of "C. N.", the Spirit Author
and ETHEL P. HILL, the Receiver
of the Message "WHAT NEXT"
I
Copyrighted 1927
by
Chas. W. Callaway
Ethel P. Hill
Price 97c Net
(Postage extra)
DEDICATION
I will dedicate the book to all who feel the
divine urge toward a greater harmony of
thought and a greater charity and considera
tion between those who desire to help instead
of hindering the final appearing of the Christ
and the establishment of his kingdom upon
earth.
This should cover every Christian religion
by whatever name men call it.
"C. N."
662645
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Much credit is due to those who so ably
assisted in the preparation of this book.
Mrs. Ella York, San Jose, Calif. Rev.
Elizabeth R. Courtney, pastor of Central
Spiritualist Church of Los Angeles, Calif.
Dolly Callaway of San Jose, Calif. Mr. Sore-
boe of Hollywood, Calif., the photographer.
Fqr the beautiful cover page and all the illus
trations accompanying each chapter we are es
pecially indebted to Miss Corinne Malvern and
her wonderful ability as an artist, also of Los
Angeles, Calif.
Cosmos Publishing Co.
PREFACE
"There is no death! What seems so is transition.
This life is of mortal breath
Is but the suburb of the life elysian
Whose portal we call death."
—Longfellow.
Phenomena must still serve as proof of the
continuity of life, the bed-rock upon which the
superstructure of a spiritual philosophy is built.
Other-world testimony is imparative as sign
that there is another world than this, that con
scious life survives death. The dove going
forth over the waste of waters must bring back
the olive leaf to prove that a world of verdure
and reality exists. The voyager to distant
islands of the sea returns with some products
of the new found country. The ladder at
Jacob's pillow, upon which the angels of the
ancient ascended and descended, has never been
drawn back into heaven. Every human gate
way, through which intelligence from Beyond
is transmitted, is crowned by those arisen spirits
who yearn to reach their loved-ones, as also
every other soul in need. The PHENOMENA
proves to the honest investigator after TRUTH
and FACT, that there is a "Psychic Gateway"
of interchange with the Spirit-world.
To be of value a thing must be KNOWL
EDGE, not mere belief. It MUST be a knowl
edge based upon logical inferences from facts.
More evidence and a more positive demonstra
tion is required upon the question, "If a man
die, shall he live again," than upon any other
7
6 WHAT NEXT?
question. This is the question that is being
pondered over and over in the minds of all who
think, regardless of their station in life or re
ligious affiliations. Many would give ALL
they possess to be assured beyond a doubt that
conscious life survives death. Lay aside ALL
your bias, all prejudice and enter upon the
reading of the message, "What Next?" with
an open mind—It may light the great abyss
that seems to lie just in front of you.
There is no necessity for any mortal to fear
the process called death; it is never painful in
its natural way. The spirit of John McCul-
lough said, "I seemed to be bourne away in the
arms of friends, and felt the arms of their love
about me, for LOVE in the spirit-world is
something tangible." Death is dreaded simply
because of ignorance born of FEAR.
The Spirit-world bends toward you, yearn
ing to lift you into a higher plane of vibration.
It calls to you, 'Come up, come up higher,' and
instead of making effort to meet these spirit
helpers in their own realm of consciousness, you
persistantly reply, 'Come down, come down,
give us another proof that you can come down,'
and so you grovel in the material plane of
phenomena, giving small attention to growth
in spiritual realization, to the unfoldment of
soul possibilities.
Never mean to draw any spirit down to
your plane of development. Bring your spirit
life up in harmony of vibration with the in
fluence above.
Mediumship (much misunderstood, malic
iously maligned, and most shamefully mis-
PREFACE 9
used) is a beautiful gateway leading through
soul unfoldment to the wisdom of the sphere.
Mediumship is a God-given and beautiful
thing, for the purpose of illuminating this
dark world and uplifting and instructing hu
manity. It throws a flashlight into the so-
called future; and certainly that man is best
qualified to act who walks in the light of the
Spirit—to whom spiritual revealment is in
deed a lamp unto his feet and a light upon his
path."
Do your own thinking — "There is some
thing in the immortality of thought that time
can never touch." Strong and mighty is the
man or woman who has outgrown the preju
dice and fear of ridicule and the personality of
ordinary humanity into the birthright of im
mortal consciousness.
* * * *
Thought transference is a demonstrated
FACT.
Automatic writing is a scientific truth and
there is no phase of mediumship, other-world
contact if you please, more dependable.
"All things can be proved, if we obtain the
facts and comprehend the laws."
"The facts must be self-evident, or demon
strable to our senses; and, the number of senses
must not be limited by out experiences."
"As spirit is conscious of its consciousness,
we, therefore assume as a self-evident fact,
that:
Individual life is; and, that:
Individual life manifesting through human
organism is a spirit.
10 WHAT NEXT?
Is the theory of spirit return scientific?
Does it best explain all the facts?
Can all the facts Jse referred to any other
theory?"
It does not so much concern us to know
from whence came life, as to be assured of its
continuity and the conditions under which it
progresses.
It is important to know that it does not end
with the termination of our existance here. To
know that it continues as a personal, individu
alized entity; that it continues as a sentient,
thinking, remembering ego, as now, is of value
to all. To know this fact now; to know some
thing of the conditions of the next existance;
to acquire some of the essentials for a fair start
in that existance is of great value to us all
These are a few of the reasons and the ulti
mate purpose of the Spirit Author, here
known as "C. N.", the receiver of this mes
sage, Ethel P. Hill, of Los Angeles, Califor
nia, the Publishers and distributors.
Cosmos Publishing Co.
Chas. W. Callaway.
CONTENTS
Introduction 1 2
Foreword 1 8
Chapter 1 —The Awakening 21
Chapter 2—Light 30
Chapter 3 —Laughter 33
Chapter 4—Fear 39
Chapter 5—Substance 43
Chapter 6—Wisdom 47
Chapter 7—Love 54
Chapter 8 —Welcome 60
Chapter 9—Art 64
Chapter 10—Desire 69
Chapter 11—Work 74
Chapter 12—Originality 80
Chapter 13—Longing 85
Chapter 14—Workmanship 90
Chapter 15—Veracity 96
Chapter 16—Morality 100
Chapter 17—Heredity 105
Chapter 18—Beauty 110
Chapter 1 9—Mentality 1 1 5
Chapter 20—Winning Immortality 120
Conclusion 125
INTRODUCTION
When a new book claims the attention of
the public and challenges their judgment on its
merits the enquiry becomes inevitable, "Who
is the Author? What claims has he upon the
public? What fitness to discuss the particular
theme involved? And what justification can
be offered for adding another to our over
crowded book shelves of today?"
It is to answer in part these enquiries that
this Introduction is penned.
The book is born into the mortal realm, as
all inspired books are, through the mental ac
tivities of one who, has in dying escaped death,
and who finds himself through his experiences
in the spirit realm prepared to give to his mor
tal friends and brothers a message of cheer and
instruction through a human instrument on
the earth-plane by what is called Automatic
Writing.
The Author of this book "What Next?"
some few years ago joined "the innumerable
caravan which moves to that mysterious
realm" of the so-called dead, not as one who,
wearied neath his threescore years and ten,
"wraps the drapery of his couch about him
and lies down to pleasant dreams," but, as he
tells us, was "catapulted suddenly" out of a
strenuous life of varied public activities "into
eternity."
His mind had vigorously repelled the figu-
12
INTRODUCTION 13
rative and fantastic concepts the average man
holds concerning the spirit world. The dreamy
haze of etheric bliss," with its golden streets,
pearly gates, and winged angels, never appealed
to this man of parts, with his numerous busi
ness activities and interesting social engage
ments. So he evaded the topic in conversation,
and like the multitude of men ignored the
whole question of the future.
He was an American, ardent and enthusias
tic, and, for a considerable time in his coun
try's service, rejoicing in the large liberty,
fuller privileges and greater possibilities of
American citizenship. For a considerable time
he occupied a highly responsible position.
As he had never been conversant with Spir
itualistic thought and literature or identified
in any way with Spiritualism, and his people
are of the Orthodox school of thought, his
name is necessarily withheld from the public.
About his past he does not tell us much, but
among the few important things he gives us
are the following: the future had always been
"shrouded in impenetrable mystery to him;"
he belonged to "the strictly moral but un-
spiritual and unimaginative type of man;"
"Men known and trusted all over the civilized
world honored me with their friendship;" he
assures the readers of his message in the book:
"I am every whit as real and every bit as sin
cere in my motives and actions now" as be
fore the transition; his purpose in the book is
to describe to the best of his ability in words
understandable to mortals "what actually oc
curred" to him since leaving the earth life.
14 WHAT NEXT?
Of himself in the new life of the spirit
world, the larger, fuller, diviner and more in
tensified life, he tells necessarily much, since,
after meeting and recognizing his father and
other friends of his earth life, he becomes the
interrogator, the deeply interested pupil and
disciple, and is led forth by them to view this
land of beauty with its happier conditions and
nobler institutions and ever-widening fields of
knowledge and interesting pursuits.
Of his Co-Worker on the earth-plane, the
wonderfully endowed woman who received
and penned the message, and without whom
the book had been an impossibility, we must
give the reader a few salient facts. Her por
trait and name will be found in the book.
Like the Unseen Inspirer on the spirit side
of life, up to a year or so ago the Future Life
was an enigma and the subject of Spiritualism
and the inter-communion of the two worlds,
received no attention from her. She was not
interested in these subjects, attended no Spirit
ualist Services, had never been at a seance, was
living a life of utter indifference to these mat
ters. The beginning of her interest was a
strange feeling of uneasiness in her arm, un
usual, persistent and unaccountable. Then a
flood of strong thoughts on her mind —ideas,
impressions and in some cases, a connected line
of thought.
This puzzled and amazed her. She began
to question herself about her health. Was her
brain working properly, or was there some
thing not just right with her mentality? Talk
ing to a friend in confidence she was advised
INTRODUCTION 15
that Automatic Writing usually comes to
some people in this way, and told to hold a
pencil in her hand and wait and, doing so,
soon found herself in communication with an
intelligence claiming to be discarnate and wish
ing in this way to send out his message to
mortals.
When the book was finished, she and Mr.
C. W. Callaway, a Teacher, Author, Pub
lisher, and an adept in putting educational
books into large circulation met, apparently by
chance, in a public meeting and were intro
duced. Mr. Callaway being an ardent believer
in the Spiritual Philosophy and the open door
of communication between the mortal and the
spirit realm and being captivated with the
style and subject matter of the book, an ar
rangement was soon consummated for putting
the manuscript into book form; and so the
work goes forth to the world, inspired by the
Arisen Brother of the Unseen Realm, penned
by the gifted Psychic whose wonderful pow
ers were unknown to herself and the world a
short time a,go, and will be pushed into large
circulation through the harmonious working
of Mr. C. W. Callaway and his company.
At first it was only contemplated that the
picture of the writer, Mrs. Ethel P. Hill,
should appear in the book. But Mr. "C. N.,"
the inspiring intelligence of the book, expressed
a wish to Mrs. Hill that she would sit for a
photo and said that he would come upon
the picture. A little later he wrote, "Will you
have the photo taken as soon as you can? You
don't know what you are missing. "A little
16 WHAT NEXT?
later he wrote, "If you want to know what I
look like why don't you have our picture
taken?. After the picture is taken there will be
more to talk about." So it was decided to sit
for a photo.
There was difficulty in finding a professed
spirit photographer. Then came word through
a lady friend that a gentleman had had a
photo taken by a Mr. Soreboe, a photographer
of Hollywood, and that unexpectedly a spirit
face was found upon it. So it was agreed to
try Mr. Soreboe, but he could not be found,
having moved away. After locating him with
difficulty he was called up and an engagement
was made without mention of the special pur
pose in view. Calling on him the day ap
pointed he was told the purpose in view
was to obtain a spirit photo. Mr. Soreboe af
firmed he did not believe a spirit photo pos
sible—he was not a Spiritualist. He would,
however, make a photograph in the regular
way as a matter of business. When the pic
ture was finished Mr. Soreboe was astonished
and friends interested in the book were de
lighted, because a spirit face appeared on the
picture and that face has been identified by
some who knew "C. N." in earth life and de
clared a fine likeness of him.
It is significant that so deep is the interest
created by these facts among the few hundred
people to whom they have become known that
a considerable portion of this first edition has
been sold before a word of the book was typed.
The book has a great mission and will help
dispel the fear and foreboding of multitudes
INTRODUCTION 17
in the thought of death. It will replace "the
dreamy haze of etheric bliss" by concrete facts
of actual experience in spirit life and bring joy
and comfort to thousands in the demonstrated
fact that our departed friends are consciously
living the diviner life, not "far, far away" but
in communicable distance of their sorrowing
earth friends who wait to join them in our
"Father's many-mansioned Home."
B. F. Austin.
FOREWORD
Y CHIEF AIM is thus addressing the
public through the medium of the press
is a sincere desire to allay the fears and
forebodings of mortals who possess, as
I did but a short time ago, a thorough
distaste for things that savored of visionary and
unprovable theory. I have always been of a
strictly moral but unspiritual and unimagina
tive type.
Picture, then, my surprise when, in the midst
of a strenuous life devoted to a variety of activ
ities in business and social life on the earth
plane, I found myself suddenly catapulted, as
you might say, into Eternity!
It is one thing to say, "I don't know what
comes after death and prefer not to indulge in
any fantastic imaginings on such a dispropor
tionately far away and unnecessary subject," and
quite another to be brought right into the mid
dle of this higher plane and allowed to investi
gate and discover for myself those practical,
everyday facts about this next existence which
had always to me been shrouded in impene
trable mystery.
Golden streets and pearly gates and angels
with their wings and harps had never presented
to my mind a state of existence compatable with
the instincts and necessities of any man's practi
cal, workaday nature and desires.
I refused to even attempt to picture myself
18
FOREWORD 19
floating about in a dreamy haze of etheric bliss
doing nothing but twanging a tune nobody in
their right senses could possibly enjoy hearing
if it resembled in the slightest degree my earthly
attempts at melody. So I politely evaded the
subject in conversation and sidetracked my
mind when it showed a tendency to wander in
that direction.
Had I ever read a plain, sensible account of
what had happened to someone I knew on their
arrival in the country you call Heaven, it would
have been of most absorbing interest—provid
ing I had placed the slightest credence in its au
thenticity.
Recalling these facts so recently true in my
own life, I have determined to attempt to de
scribe to the best of my ability in words under
standable to mortals, what actually occurred
to me after leaving that life with its intensely
interesting problems and mundane activities
equally controlled by the conscious working of
a more or less active and efficient brain devel
oped along lines of business achievement. The
manner in which this has become possible will
be treated in its proper sequence as my story
proceeds.
Of my own identity it is not necessary to
specify otherwise than a general statement that
men known and trusted all over the civilized
world honored me with their friendship and
confidence during my sojourn on that plane
and, since I assure you I am still every whit as
real and every bit as sincere in my motives and
actions now, you will be quite safe in follow
ing their example to the extent of reading and
20 WHAT NEXT?
believing the truth of the facts set forth in this
volume.
It is, therefore, with confidence I dedicate
this volume to those who, not satisfied with
visionary unrealities, crave a solid, concrete ex
ample of what they may expect upon the ter
mination of their earthly existence.
To all such I send greetings and a hearty
wish for their corresponding pleasure in all of
the very real and most vividly interesting activ
ities of this higher plane they must some day
enter, whether they are planning for the transi
tion or not.
Why not learn the truth and so make it a
matter of joyful anticipation?
"C. N."
CHAPTER ONE
Y STORY STARTS, naturally, where
most stories end—at The Great Divide.
At a time when all my earthly activities
were at their peak, when the earth life
held for me much of the success for
which men strive with tireless energy, the sud
den summons came! I stood with reluctant feet
upon the brink of Eternity!
With half-averted eyes I contemplated the
unwelcome prospect of a complete change of
scene and environment. My body was under
going the painful accompaniments of a most
severe form of pneumonia.
The most merciful feeling of peace and rest
stole over me. I sank into a profound slumber.
My spirit took its leave of my pain-racked phy
sical body and I rested for a period of many
days upon a couch of soft silken fabric such as
women love to use to fashion their negligees.
21
22 WHAT NEXT?
Not in the least like the rough blankets the
doughboys slept in on the battlefields of France.
Such a chap slept beside me. Imagine the
contrast for him. To sink into the death coma
amid the horror and din of a hideous nightmare
of death and destruction and find himself so
suddenly conveyed, with no jolting, torturing
ambulance, to the peaceful, restful silence of
these chambers of repose.
Almost imperceptibly my eyes were unveiled
and the beauty of this wonderful place was
slowly revealed to me. There was no fear in
my consciousness, only a mighty wonder at
the naturalness of the new powers I slowly dis
covered I possessed and a great thankfulness
that instead of being deprived of any of my
cherished powers of thought and action, they
were every one intensified to an almost incred
ible degree.
I spoke to the lad who slept beside me to as
sure myself that what I saw and felt was not a
dream.
He answered with the same awe and unbelief
in his tone.
"Why, I actually seem to be alive after all!"
he said. "I heard them say I was dying but this
isn't death. No, siree! There's no death here!"
For some little time we lay there discussing
our feelings and voicing our amazement over
the beauty of our surroundings. We both felt
the same faint sense of dismay at the mere
thought that this newly apprehended world in
which we found ourselves might fade away and
leave us back on our old stamping ground, the
material earth where you now live.
THE AWAKENING 23
We talked, and as we spoke, it was as though
veil after veil of almost transparent curtaining
was removed until everything stood out clearly
and distinctly.
We arose and donned garments of some light
material into which we slipped without con
scious effort and stepped outside the room
where we had found ourselves.
I was not prepared in any way for the sight
which greeted our eyes. Spirits, all wearing the
same sort of loose, comfortable garments, made
pleasant groups here and there. All were evi
dently quite engrossed in some pursuit which
was to them of great interest. There was a
pleased and eager look on every face, as though
what they were doing and saying was of the
utmost importance to them.
As we waited a moment, taking in the pleas
ant scene, the youth by my side gave a joyous
shout and I turned to find him in the midst of
a bevy of welcoming spirits each of whom he
greeted by name.
While I looked on, thrilled at this happy re
union, I was suddenly conscious of a smiling
face close to mine and turning, looked into the
eyes of my father, glowing with affection. Al
though we had been separated for many earth
years, it was as though we had parted but the
day before.
"I have many, many things to show you, my
boy," he said when the first glad greetings were
over. "Knowing you would soon awaken and
throw off the earth daze I have invited many of
your earth friends newly arrived to meet you
at my home."
24 WHAT NEXT?
"Your home?" I asked, and he laughed at
my surprise.
"But, surely, you guessed we had homes!" he
said. "How else could we enjoy the pleasant
companionship of those we love and where
would we spend the hours we devote to study
and meditation?"
"Do you still write sermons, and where do
you preach?" I asked, for my father had been
a minister.
"You shall see for yourself. Come with me!"
he answered.
As he spoke I was conscious of a swiftness of
motion difficult to describe. Involuntarily I
closed my eyes.
"Here we are," my father announced, and I
saw we had entered a garden. It was very beau
tifully laid out with flowers and trees, spray
ing fountains and pleasant pathways winding
about. But I had scarcely time to notice my
surroundings for friends greeted me, welcoming
me home and together we all went laughing
and chatting gaily to enter the open doorway
to my father's home.
With much pleasure I noted the spaciousness
of the cool, quiet room we entered with its in
viting chairs, soft carpets, beautiful paintings
and especially I noted a picture of my mother,
almost living in its realistic beauty, which hung
at the far end of the room under a light which
shone from somewhere above and shed a rosy
glow over the features. Almost it seemed she
would speak to me, so exquisitely natural was
the pose and coloring.
"She will soon be with us!" my father told
THE AWAKENING 25
me. "I watch the painting day by day and it
grows more beautiful as her spirit nears the
time of awakening. She is sleeping in the valley
that intervenes between the earth plane and this
land of freedom."
"Where is this valley," I asked: "Could we
not awaken her?"
But my father said, "No, indeed! She must
sleep until she awakens slowly, of her own ac
cord. Her astral body must reach a state of per
fection which will permit of her fully entering
into our mode of living. She now sleeps in one
of the chambers of repose constructed for those
in a transitory state. The time varies greatly.
Some spend barely a few hours there, as you
are in the habit of measuring time; others must
remain months or years."
I was deeply moved, for my father had loved
my mother with a deep, true affection and the
longing in his voice told me his love was un
changed.
With pleasure we conversed with all the
friends gathered in honor of my arrival. I was
most curious regarding their occupations.
"What do you do here all day?" I asked a
young girl I had known very well on the earth
plane.
"I do the same things I did on earth, only I
do them really well here," she answered, laugh
ing at my surprise.
Later, when the wide hallway was cleared of
the friends who drifted away after welcoming
me to my heavenly home, my father and I re
turned to the large, pleasant room he called his
den. Knowing his appreciation of fine furni-
26 WHAT NEXT?
ture and beautiful paintings, I was not sur
prised by this time to note the extravagance of
his taste as displayed in the furnishings.
"Not much like the economical makeshifts
of your parsonage at W ," I said.
"No need of economy here, my boy," he
laughed. "Depriving myself of such luxuries
would not benefit anyone. When we sacrifice
any personal pleasure or comfort here it is for
the express purpose of helping someone else.
And then it is no sacrifice at all, for we get more
pleasure out of seeing them enjoy it than we
would from having it ourselves."
"Sounds quite like a Sunday School lesson,"
I commented.
"Just as simple as that, only you have yet to
learn that the simplest truths are the most pro
found."
"But where did these marvelous things come
from? Who made them? What did they cost?
If you have no money, how did you pay for
them?" The questions fairly tumbled over one
another, so intense was my interest in this ut
terly new scheme of existence.
My father motioned to the table.
"Will you have a drink?" he enquired, with
his peculiarly pleasing air of oldtime courtesy.
I looked. There was nothing upon the table
which in the least resembled any form of drink
able fluid.
"I asked you a question," he reminded me,
with a certain humorous twinkle I well remem
bered in his eye.
"Thank you," I responded, instantly. "It
would be refreshing, sir!"
THE AWAKENING 27
He reached out, raised a glass, or what resem
bled a glass, full of sparkling water, clear as
crystal and bade me drink. I drank. There was
a peculiarly refreshing quality about that water,
as though it were charged with the elixir of life.
We seated ourselves by an immense window,
overlooking a wide expanse of rolling country,
dotted with charming homes with gardens and
trees, and flitting about, were birds of brilliant
hue, singing as they winged their way past our
window.
The window was open and gentle breezes
wafted to us the fragrance of sweet scented blos
soms.
My father waved a deprecating hand. "I
cannot offer you a cigar — they are not al
lowed," he explained.
I made no comment. I was trying to decide
in my own mind just how that hand of his dif
fered from a mortal hand. It was visible to my
astral eye, yet I knew the form was not as an
earthly hand would appear.
Many matters were discussed, personal and
private matters, which would not interest you,
then the conversation drifted to the subject of
astral music. For some time I had been hearing
a low, sweet melody of extraordinary beauty,
even to my untrained ears.
Perceiving the question in my mind, my
father answered.
"It is a little cripple from one of the prov
inces of Belgium. The twisted body is straight
and lovely now. In pain and poverty he kept
his spirit brave and his faith undimmed and
the music he longed to play, but could not there
28 WHAT NEXT?
find means of expressing, was waiting for him
here in this instrument you hear. Even as his
astral body was, through his faith and love,
made perfect for his habitation before his com
ing, so was this instrument created by the in
tensity of his longing to satisfy his desire for
music."
My father called; that is, it had that effect.
He spoke no word. As I was myself conscious
of his desire, so was his thought-wish projected
in a flash to the mind of the child, for he came
swiftly, bringing with him the curiously con
structed instrument, upon which he played.
"Your music is very beautiful, my lad," I
said, "What was the name of the selection and
who was the composer?"
"I was playing for my mother," he ex
plained, eagerly. "I was in the Room of Many
Mirrors and I looked until I found my mother.
She was very weary, so weary she wished to
weep in her loneliness but instead of weeping,
she thought of me and smiled. Then I knew
she was listening to me with the ears of her
spirit, so I played for her my sweetest song and
she listened and glad tears came into her eyes.
With her spirit mind she heard and understood
and said, 'My boy is well and happy now and
he can play the music he so loves.' So, you see,
she really heard me as you said she would! Her
spirit is not deaf any more!"
At the boy's cry of triumph I was struck by
the strange paradox. My father tried to make
it clear.
"To those who watch from this plane, the
real eyes are the eyes of the spirit, the real ears,
THE AWAKENING 29
the ears of the spirit. Until mortals can see and
hear with their spiritual senses, they are to us
hopelessly deaf and blind. As you pity one
whose physical eyes and ears are useless and set
your specialists to work to try and cure him, so
we pity those whose spiritual vision is defec
tive and apply curative osteopathy to give them
sight and hearing."
CHAPTER TWO
WONDERED, as time passed, why it
did not grow dark.
There was a quiet hush as everyone
sought their homes for a period of rest
and recreation. I thought that soon the
rosy glow which lighted everything would fade
away and darkness would enshroud the world
where I now dwelt.
Again reading my mind, my father spoke.
"There is no night here," he said. "You re
member in the Bible it states distinctly, 'There
shall be no night there but sorrow and sighing
shall flee away.' There will- come a time when
mortals will begin to actually prove the truth
of the facts which they now read with a sort of
conscientious dumbness. They seem to think
they have to be feeble-minded to accept the
Bible truths. The trouble is they lose the con
nection between the physical and the spiritual."
I confessed I did not quite catch his meaning.
30
LIGHT 31
"We will illustrate with this subject of
Light," he said. "It is a good example of my
meaning. When you say 'Light' you think of
its effect on your physical eye or your astral eye
as the case may be. But what is the light itself
—the force which produces this effect? It is a
series of vibrations. The vibrations produce the
effect of which you are conscious as they come
in contact with what you call your eye. Your
own scientists will admit that. Well then, here
we go a step further and by our spiritual ad
vancement we actually increase the rate of vi
brations in our own consciousness so that we
are sensitive to the finer light vibrations mortals
miss entirely with their more obtuse sense of
sight. In other words, their anthropic meter
will not record vibrations of such rapidity,
which we contact with perfect ease. Once the
spirit of a mortal is sensitized to these finer
light vibrations, his spirit sees with absolute
clearness of vision realities which are utter mys
teries to one still impervious to the higher rate
of vibration. Does that make it any clearer to
you?"
"We inadvertently use some apt phrases on
the earth plane, then," I commented. "When
we say a man with a good mind and character
is 'fine' it is a scientifically correct statement!"
"Just so," my father agreed. "He has by
concentrating his attention upon realitites so
attuned his mind and spirit to their tempo that
his own rate of vibrations has automatically in
creased to meet the power he has contacted."
"Then, any man who has, as mortals say, 'a
spark of manhood' may, if he so wills contact
32 WHAT NEXT?
these light vibrations in such a way as to in
crease his own rate of vibration?"
"He increases his own receptivity!"
"Then what is light to me might be utter
darkness to another and visa versa?"
"Not might be, but IS!" my father an
swered. "Again I quote the Bible—Christ says,
'I am the Way, the Truth and the Life.' This
is not a mere allegorical symbol as mortals sup
pose. It goes on, 'No man cometh unto the
Father but by Me!' It is so simple one wonders
at the blindness which stumbles over it. Christ
was, indeed, the materialized exponent of all
Truth. Accept Christ (the Way) follow His
teachings (which are the Truth) and there is
no escape from the inevitable consequence —you
WILL walk in the Light of Life eternal."
My mind was busy with these new ideas and
as I tried to adjust my mental machinery to the
new viewpoint, I was conscious of a most won
derful uplift of spirit.
My father sat in silence for a time, then rose
and motioned to me to follow him and we came
to the Place of Many Mirrors.
But of that I shall tell you in another
chapter.
CHAPTER THREE
E CAME INTO a room where, waiting
our touch, stood mirrors—hundreds of
them, all tipped at various angles and
each reflecting some scene at a far dis
tant point. These were moved at will,
much as one would direct a telescope to reach a
distant star. However, there was this differ
ence; in a way it would be impossible to ex
plain to you, we were able to read the motives
of the actors on these miniature stages. While
the action was interesting, as you can well im
agine, a thousand times more interesting were
the mental processes of the actors.
Seeing it for the first time I was convulsed
with mirth. People were doing all sorts of mor
tally solemn things for absolutely absurd rea
sons.
What I most wished to see was one of my
own loved-ones on earth.
33
34 WHAT NEXT?
"All you need to do is to get the right focus,"
my father explained. He helped me adjust one
of the mirrors.
What I saw filled me with pity. It was too
intimate a scene for description, but my own
immediate family were weeping over my pass
ing on, and conning over my supposed virtues.
My sister was sitting apart from the others.
I yearned to speak a word of comfort to her.
"Can I not reach her in some way?" I asked.
"You can go to her but she will not be con
scious of your presence," my father said.
"How do I go?" I asked, but even as I spoke
the mirror was gone and I was actually with
those I had been watching from afar but a mo
ment before.
I knew I was invisible to all of them, but so
acute was my desire to make them hear me that
I tried to shout.
Some faint echo of my astral voice must have
reached my sister for she spoke in sudden eager
ness.
"Perhaps he is not so far away as we think!
He may be quite close listening to us—knowing
all that we are doing and planning," she said.
The others smiled, as at some childish fancy,
but still her words carried some faint sense of
conviction.
What I might have been led to attempt in my
frantic desire to let them know I was still alive
(even more so than when they had seen me in
the flesh) I do not know, for my father insisted
upon my leaving.
So we returned to the Mirror Room and
LAUGHTER 35
watched the drama of earth-life from this van
tage point.
What I saw in the mirrors was fascinating. I
watched men go through the most fantastic
maneuvers to convince their wives of their af
fection while in their minds they were plotting,
with devilish cunning, to elude detection as they
carried on their illicit love affairs, so called.
How much love there was involved varied with
the individual —most of it was ludicrously im
mature and distorted. I saw maidens set them
selves to decoy men and tempt them and then
pretend surprise and horror when their thinly
veiled advances produced the affect they in
vited. I saw women hide their passion for the
man they truly loved and gravely accept the
unholy passion of another that they might en
joy the material possessions they fancied would
bring them happiness. Oh, it was a queer,
twisted, impossible world I saw in those mir
rors!
Just try for one day looking for people's ac
tual motives, even as you see them dimly, and
you will agree with me that there is no care
fully concocted comedy presented on any stage
or screen half so funny as the daily life of the
average human being when you can see into
his mind (hidden from mortal vision) and dis
cover the real motives back of his simplest acts.
You will get some idea of what I mean if you
watch yourself and ask yourself why you make
such a fuss about the town gossip! Do you
really care two cents whether John Jones runs
off with a lot of money that doesn't belong to
him, or are you merely using it as an excuse to
36 WHAT NEXT?
extol your own superior virtues by contrast?
Does Mary Smith's deflection from the path
of rectitude really shock you, or do you merely
feel a pleasant sense of worldly antipathy to her
more primitive methods of satisfying her
natural instinct for motherhood, which you,
perhaps, deny from motives far more despic
able.
At first, I was horrified at the spectacle, then
the absolute absurdity of all the sham and pre
tense appealed to my sense of humor and I
laughed as I had never laughed in all the years
of my earth-life. All these human beings so
seriously and earnestly striving to deceive them
selves and each other —doing things they de
tested year after year in order that someone they
cared nothing for (or even despised) might
think them different than they really were.
"So few mortals have the courage to follow
their convictions!" my father commented.
"Follow their convictions," I scoffed, "why,
they haven't courage enough or sense enough
to do as they please! Why, they're afraid of
their own shadows! Here's a girl afraid to say
she loves a man because he has on a flannel
shirt when his competitors for her favor wear
linen! Here's a man who decides to make his
home in the city, which he heartily detests, be
cause his wife wants to appear more sophisti
cated —which she isn't or she wouldn't feel that
way. Here's a boy who wants to be a plumber
and his mother insists on his learning the vio
lin, while this boy who has a passion for the
fiddle must sell soap! Here's a girl, wonder of
wonders, who really loves to do housework —
LAUGHTER 37
but her family is aghast at her plebian tastes—
she must learn to dance and flirt and fritter
away her time, bore herself and benefit no one."
I watched the mirrors a long time, shifting to
this scene and that. It was a funny, funny
world from where I watched.
Where the people were the most solemn and
filled with a sense of their own importance,
they were the funniest judged by their motives.
Where they were most simple and natural and
full of fun, they were not so up-side-down in
their words and acts.
My father finally suggested that we leave
this mirth-provoking scrutiny of the mental
processes of mankind and seek our couches for
a period of repose.
"But father, what will ever teach the world
the futility of all this sham and pretense?" I
asked.
"Laughter is the very best medicine on earth
for worldly folly," he said, quite earnestly.
"When men learn to laugh at conventions that
have no real sense, to laugh at their own fears,
to laugh at foolish customs that were better
forgotten—when they laugh their way to free
dom and laugh at those who fear to follow the
path that leads into the light—then there will
be a great improvement in the social and indus
trial world at least, not to speak of the great
physical benefit to be derived from a hearty
laugh!"
I laughed at the idea of so broad an applica
tion of the laugh cure.
"It's positively the best spiritual antiseptic
yet discovered," my father went on. "It de-
38 WHAT NEXT?
stroys the germs of every sort of destructive
force. It is at once the simplest and most effec
tive antidote for every sort of poison used by
destructive forces to thwart our efforts to lift
the spirits of mortals to a higher plane of
thought and action!"
"I will remember and keep it in my 'First
Aid' Kit," I said.
CHAPTER FOUR
PON arising from my couch in the early
morning of my second day on this
plane, as you measure days, I was con
scious of an intense curiosity concerning
the method by which my father had
produced certain substances necessary for our
comfort. The water I drank, the coverlet for
my couch, the food of which we had partaken,
the very couch itself seemed to have appeared
at his behest in some magical way I could not
in the least understand.
As I considered the strange happenings of
the previous day, a strange feeling of forebod
ing came over me and I became conscious of a
pair of eyes regarding me with a glare of hatred.
I drew back but the wierd shape followed
me and spoke in sepulchral tones.
"Now let ME show you a few things," It
said.
39
40 WHAT NEXT?
Seemingly hypnotized by the eyes of this
horrible monster, I followed and It led me to a
precipice. I looked over and beheld a carnival
of vice and horror. Terrible shapes, nameless
tortures, hideous noises, a pandemonium of all
the unutterably vile and loathsome things the
mind of man could conceive.
"This is my kingdom! Here I reign supreme!
I am the Prince of Darkness and my name is
Fear!" It said.
A great dread came upon me and I felt the
edge of the precipice crumbling beneath my
trembling feet. My guide seemed to give a call
of triumph and command and I felt the clutch
of powerful hands that pushed and pulled me
to the very edge of that dark and horrible
chasm. Choking clouds arose and enveloped
me. I struggled but it was useless. I was slip
ping and my struggles only hastened my de
scent. Then I turned and laughed in the face
of my tormentors.
"You can't force me to go with you!" I
cried. "I don't belong to your tribe. I am a
citizen of a country called Heaven. You don't
dare carry me beyond the boundary line with
out my consent and I refuse to go with you!"
I made my last lone stand.
Then I turned to fight them—but there was
no one to fight. There was no precipice. In
place of the darkness where the horrible pit had
yawned before me, a great light shone on a
pleasant valley and beside me stood one in shin
ing garments.
"My name is Faith. You called me?" she
asked.
FEAR 41
"But where has the Prince of Darkness
gone," I asked her in return.
'
'He has no real power except over those who
still dwell in the darkness of unbelief," she told
me. "When the Light shines — Pouf! He is
gone!" Faith laughed and at the music of her
laughter a troupe of maidens appeared and
danced lightly and joyously where a moment
before Fear's murderous chasm had yawned.
You think this is a fairy tale, but I assure
you it is nothing of the kind. I have promised
to tell you of my experiences in words which
are comprehensible to you. If I must use ma
terial symbols to carry my meaning, accept
them as accurate representations of what really
took place and you will arrive at a very definite
idea of what I encountered.
Try to realize that Faith is real, is alive, is
so powerful that no evil force can stand against
her. I use the feminine form of speech, for Faith
is ethereal. Now, to you ethereal means some
thing so fine and so transparent it is practically
invisible to the human eye. Faith is all that,
but you overlook one important point. This
ethereal power we call Faith (for want of a bet
ter name) is the most powerful force in the en
tire Universe. It is in all substance—without
it there would be no substance. It permeates all
thought —without it there would be, literally,
nothing to think about. It is the life principle
of all spirit. It even precedes and creates life it
self.
Faith is life in its etheric essence. "Accord
ing to your Faith be it unto you" is a plain,
simple statement of a scientifically demonstra
42 WHAT NEXT?
ble fact, above and beyond any and all material
conceptions, but provable through its physical
manifestations. A force which is placed, by the
mercy of the Ruler of the Universe, at the serv
ice of every mortal who, by the exercise of his
own conscious will, calls it into effect. Where
Faith is absent, Fear abides. And let me em
phasize one point—the only thing any mortal
need fear for one moment is—FEAR!
AN C E
CHAPTER FIVE
Y WONDER over the beauty of all I
saw increased with every passing mo
ment. I felt I must have some explana
tion of the process by which these for
tunate beings acquired clothing, food,
drink, the books they studied. Even the very
houses in which they lived, the beds in which
they slept were made in some mysterious way
which passed my understanding.
"A city not built with hands, eternal in the
heavens." It was my father who spoke and
Faith smiled at his words.
We seated ourselves under a tree- upon the
hillside overlooking a rolling countryside while
a whole heavenly world of unspeakable beauty
lay before us and invited our most profound at
tention and approval. Faith and her attendants
were close by—a sort of body guard.
"I am waiting for some light on this marvel
ous place and its wonderful methods of opera
tion," I said.
43
44 WHAT NEXT?
"What do you see," my father asked, "that
you wish explained?"
"I see—let us say—a tree. Where does it
come from? How did it grow?"
"It is purely a product of thought," my
father said.
"Do you mean I merely imagine a tree and
there is no tree there?" I asked, rather startled
at this idea.
"No, not at all! There is a very real tree. I
see it and you see it. It even has life."
"Must it, in the course of time, be cut down
and another take its place?" I questioned.
"Yes, it will some day be dissolved by
thought, even as it was created."
"What prevents a whole wilderness of trees
from springing up? If I think of a pepper tree
and you think of an oak to occupy the same
spot on the landscape, which one of us gets the
tree?"
"It is no such hit or miss business as that,"
he laughed. "All is harmony here! Each has
his own work. It is planned and alloted by
those in authority. All is governed by fixed,
unchangeable law."
"Then, when you become a spirit you lose
your free will?"
"By no means, but whatever your chosen oc
cupation, you must pursue it in strict accord
with the laws in operation here or it will fail
utterly."
"You do, then, sometimes fail in your under
takings?"
"There is no such thing as failure if we learn
and apply the laws governing all life. A con
SUBSTANCE 45
scious acceptance of the law of harmony pre
cedes all creative work."
"My mind seems not to grasp the first rudi
ments of this creative process," I admitted.
"We will illustrate with a glass of water —
the commonest necessity. My astral body craves
this drink. I am conscious of this need. My
mind constructs an image of the object needed.
This image calls into existence a certain mi
nutely constructed embryo of the object desired
which is the nucleus of a vibratory battery
which produces on my senses the result I wish."
"Is it a tedious process?" I asked.
"Through practice it becomes almost instan
taneous!"
"Could mortals use this higher law?"
"They can and do use it but in its more
clumsy and tedious manifestations."
"How does this tree I see differ from an earth
tree, for instance?"
"It is not fully solidified. It is matter in its
more perfect, astral form."
"But is not the material form more perfect
and complete?"
"Not at all! It is stiff, solid, immovable. It
has no permeability. It is like the difference be
tween the picture of a thing and the thing itself.
You paint the picture of a rose. You say it is
perfect. Each line, each shade is an absolute
reproduction of the beauty of the rose—but it
is only a fac-simile, it is not the rose itself.
True, it is solid and substantial—you can look
at it—feel it—you say it is a real picture —but
who would not rather have the glowing, frag
rant rose itself, fragile and perishable though it
46 WHAT NEXT?
be? Do you see the analogy?
This is the actual, the lasting, the living
reality. Material forms are but mortal concepts,
cast in solid form to fill a necessary place in a
lower form of life. As you reach the higher
planes of thought and life, the material sym
bols are discarded for the actualities of the
spirit. A child does not carry his blocks with
him through life, although they are useful
enough in their place."
"I am willing to dispense with my blocks,"
I agreed. "What is the next step?"
"Wisdom!"
•Comment before starting this chapter.
"What we need now is a new set of words and another kind of
a brain to comprehend them."
CHAPTER SIX
|
ATER WAS the symbol my father took
to illustrate the method of attracting
and holding together the necessary ele
ments to create any given object.
My own mind was busy with an
other application of the same creative law. Sup
pose I wished a more complicated mortal con
cept to gather form—for instance, a horse or a
dog?
My father laughed at this idea before I could
put it into words.
"No, no! Not so fast!" he cautioned me.
"Before you are prepared to make any use
whatever of this wonderful creative power, you
must apply yourself to the study of its various
manifestations and the laws which govern its
only legitimate purpose."
I had noticed groups of astral forms all drift
ing toward an immense building with stately
47
48 WHAT NEXT?
columns, from which issued the deep melodious
tones of an organ played by a master's hands.
When we joined this throng I was struck by
the joyous eagerness of their attitudes as they
hastened to the Place of Worship. For so I
found it to be. Not a college, as I at first guessed
but a Temple of Praise. Those who attended
all joined in the anthems of worship and adora
tion of the Supreme Being whose we are and
whom we serve.
One spoke to us of Love—of Mercy —of the
Wisdom of God—told of His supreme manifes
tation of Divine Love—the Christ! My heart
swelled with an emotion quite new to me. I
was beginning to feel and realize the actual ex
istence of things which had always appealed to
me as pleasant and morally uplifting fancies,
rather than actual facts. All my previous un
belief faded away and was forgotten in the
flood of Light which poured into my mind, il
luminating sayings of the Bible which had
seemed obscure and clothed in mystery. When
Christ said, "Knowledge is the world's salva
tion," He put it in words of the time in which
He lived and this is the version you read:
"Whatsoever a man soweth that shall he also
reap."
You interpret this saying as a mere figure of
speech. It is not—it is the exact statement of a
scientifically accurate fact, quite clear and ex
plicit to one versed in the higher laws of the
Universe.
The sowing begins with a thought seed. It
is planted in your mind. It develops into a full-
grown object of some sort and is projected into
WISDOM 49
the fluid ether as a mould into which the neces
sary elements form themselves as your thought
force impels them. Thus the thought seed
brings forth from the primal fluid essence of
all substance the exact fruit of your thought.
The original thought seed was your own. You
could do with it as you pleased. You could
plant it in the fertile soil of your mind or cast
it from you and destroy it utterly. But once
planted, it grows whether you wish it or not.
It grows into a form in accord with its true
nature.
Mortals go through the earth-life in igno
rance of this first important principle of all hu
man endeavor and progress. They try to change
the "fruit" —the RESULT of their thoughts,
instead of changing the thought from which it
sprang.
And now we will go a little deeper and dis
cover the origin of thought and its only reliable
method of control. Deep within the spirit of
every mortal born into the world is a hidden
purpose—which is the keynote of his conscious
existence. All his desires, his little-understood
intuitive motivating instincts spring from that
hidden purpose. It may be diverted into vari
ous channels or it may be sealed up and made
dangerous by repression —but those who fol
low the plan of their Creator, give to this pur
pose its freedom to activate their lives with mo
tives that are pure. Now we are getting to the
real source of all our joy and all our sorrow.
This hidden purpose is good. There is no
real life in a bad purpose. The original purpose
of every human expression of the Divine Ego
50 WHAT NEXT?
must be and is essentially (that is in the essence
of its being) GOOD! All that you call bad is
a perversion or twisting of this good purpose
into something quite foreign to its intention.
Every mortal then, is endowed at the mo
ment of his entrance into a state of conscious ex
istence, with a good purpose. Could he follow
his own purpose, could he give it full sway and
be led by its impetus, all would be well. It is
the willful perversion of this purpose which
brings sorrow of every sort into human lives.
Every purpose is good — every purpose is
constructive —that is its nature. It furnishes
the incentive to growth—expansion, but every
purpose is not identical in its character. There
are varying purposes, all good. Of this we shall
learn later.
If one would develop in harmony with the
Divine Plan, he must, first of all follow his
own purpose. A purpose other than his own,
even though it be good, will not bring the same
peace and contentment of mind.
What I learned that morning, as I listened to
the words of wisdom that fell from the lips of
the teacher who addressed us with such an illu
minating message, was the importance of
knowing my own purpose and following it val
iantly. What my purpose is and how you may
find your own true purpose, will be told in the
following chapter.
When we reach a place where it is possible
to open our eyes to true learning, we come to
see the futility of purely intellectual attain
ments.
The "understanding heart (which is the
WISDOM 51
heart imbued with true learning—God-given)
wants no set rules to guide its loving ministra
tions. When Love rules the intellect, turning
ideas into actions, proving theories by their
applicability to ease pain, to lighten burdens,
to serve one's fellow-man in any capacity that
fits the occasion —then, real wisdom has en
tered the mind through the illuminated path
way of Love and the brain is turned into a
factory for the manufacture of beautiful deeds.
Intellect, pure and simple, is like a shining
instrument which may be used to destroy quite
as easily as to save precious human lives. Put
it under the rule of Love and it becomes a
priceless power for good.
You think you are aiding human progress
when you introduce the higher courses of
study to people of primitive habits but, un
less you teach them how to use this knowl
edge for the benefit of themselves and others,
far better leave them in ignorance.
We, of the higher planes, must learn our
lessons of Wisdom before we are allowed to
explore the higher realms of thought and,
when mortals learn the true meaning of life,
they will put Wisdom far ahead of intellect.
But Love comes first of all. We progress in
our lives here, not in proportion to our intel
lectual vibrations but (with our awakening
minds attuned to spiritual vibrations) we must
adjust what knowledge we may have pre
viously acquired to this spiritual interpretation
of life with its duties and pleasures.
We find many who were accounted igno
rant in the earth-life, raised to positions of
52 WHAT NEXT?
trust and responsibility here, while others who
spent many years in intellectual pursuits on
earth, are relegated to comparatively menial
positions.
When you consider your mental treasure-
house from this angle, it is easier to cultivate
those attributes of lasting value, instead of
wasting many precious years of earth-life in
acquiring a vast amount of intellectual pro
vender you will never succeed in turning to
real account. We cannot too strongly stress
the importance of applying the practical test
of involuntary mind reactions to any new line
of study. Does it bring you closer to the ob
ject of your life in its ultimate analysis? Will
it give you a deeper understanding of your re
lation to your fellow mortals? Is it a purely
selfish acquirement for your personal pleasure
or do you hope to use it to benefit others?
If the purpose of the intellectual develop
ment is to aid in the progress of the world in
any way whatever, it automatically lifts you
to a level of real beauty of understanding.
This is the Wisdom that gives impetus to
every worthy project.
We have at all times a complete compen
dium of the knowledge of all past ages at our
command; nor is it a tedious task to extract
from this mass of bygone booklore the partic
ular information we require for our work.
But the point I am trying to bring out is
this—that we do not set ourselves a certain,
lengthy course of study and lay aside all work
until this is completed. Rather, we use each
bit of knowledge, get it thoroughly incorpo-
WISDOM 53
rated in our being—then, dig out another bit
—thus proving the actual truth of what we
have learned as we go along. Through this
process we escape the snare of self-deception
and self-satisfaction which bars the intellect-
ualist from true progress.
A mass of unassimilated information may
cause a terrible case of spiritual indigestion.
My father came and laid his hand upon my
shoulder.
"If any man lack wisdom, let him ask of
God, Who giveth liberally to all."
"I must be sure I know and understand be
fore I dare do anything," I said.
"You shall learn," my father promised me.
With that promise I left the Temple of
Praise and we mingled with those who jour
neyed to their daily tasks.
CHAPTER SEVEN
TURNED to my father for further
advice. I felt bewildered and uncertain.
"How may one be sure of their own
purpose—how discover its outstanding
mental quality?" I asked him.
"You may always be absolutely sure of one
quality which is the basic principle of each and
every constructive purpose —that is Love! No
good purpose is without it and no purpose is
wholly evil. It must always contain in em
bryonic form its original Love possibility. It
must always remain subject to reclamation
through the transforming power of Love."
"Still, Love must have an object. Might not
a love be evil if the object loved were evil?"
"Love will not defile itself, no matter what
test you make. Many feelings and qualities are
masked as Love, but Love itself is never evil, it
never serves an evil purpose."
54
LOVE 55
"What is my own purpose and how may I
best serve it?" I asked him.
"We will suppose, for instance, that you see
a person whom you feel is doing something
quite contrary to the known laws of the Uni
verse and is suffering the consequences. What
would your first impulse be, your first
thought?"
"A feeling of pity for his evident ignorance
of the law he was so transgressing and a desire
to enlighten him and so ease his suffering," I
answered promptly.
"That gives you your keynote. You wish
to reconstruct his mental apparatus in order
that it may function easily and harmoniously."
"But, surely, everyone would feel the same
desire," I argued.
"All would feel the same pity, which is an
other name for Love, but all would not feel the
same urge for service, or rather would not ex
press it in the same manner."
"Then, judging from that reaction, how do
you classify my purpose?"
"Your purpose is Light!"
"What other purpose might I serve?" I asked
with wide-eyed interest.
"There are seven main purposes," he told
me, "all with the same actuating motive of
Love!"
"And what are these seven purposes?"
"The constructive purposes all aid in the
progress of all conscious existence toward the
final goal of Perfection. Each may choose the
purpose he will follow according to his own in
stincts and desires, but first let him purify the
56 WHAT NEXT?
source of all desire—his own spirit. Let him
work from the only worthy motive —a deep,
indwelling Love for others. This lights the
flame of Service. And remember, it is only as
one serves others that they may themselves
progress. Think only of yourself and you in
evitably retrograde. It is an inviolable law.
Even an honest effort to progress defeats its
own object if the motive be anything but Love.
The power of Love is unlimited. It furnishes
the fuel for every flame that gives vitality to
action. Any deed, no matter how perfect in it
self, is worse than useless if it be not inspired
by Love. Any teaching fails of its mission when
it lacks the vital spark of Love and makes a
merely mental impression."
"How may one ignite this spark of Love in
his own heart?" I wanted to know.
"By consecrating his life to the service of
Him whose name is Love," my father answered.
At his words there awoke in my conscious
ness a mighty desire to so consecrate my life and
thus actually and actively claim my citizenship
in the Kingdom of Heaven which is only an
other name for the Kingdom of Love.
My father motioned to a very beautiful
Spirit standing near and she approached us.
"I am ready!" she said.
"Guide my son to the Temple of Consecra
tion," my father said, and at his request she
took me by the hand and led me to a place of
marvelous beauty. But before we reached this
silent Temple of Devotion, I asked her to tell
me her name and she said, "I am called Wis
dom!"
LOVE 57
So Wisdom, clad in shining garments of
Truth, guided me to the Temple of Consecra
tion and as I entered, I saw written over the
doorway one word, "LOVE."
My whole life is now spent in teaching others
the art of expressing the Divine Essence of Love
in all they say or do, wherever circumstances
may have placed them. This is life in its sim
plest and most exalted form. To do this per
fectly is to attain to a sublime height of living
that confers on one the inestimable privilege of
communion with the Master Himself!
Can you not see the beauty of such a service
to others? It carries with it that vital inspira
tion that renders living a joyous adventure!
Such living is in itself a sermon beside which
the spoken word pales into insignificance.
Count the day well spent that has been cast
into the Crucible of Time with its Mantle of
Mortality dipped in the crimson hue of costliest
sacrifice, if that sacrifice is performed with a
glad heart and a willing hand, led by the Divine
Spirit of Love! What does the loss of a pleas
ure, the giving up of some cherished hope count
when pitted against the Glory of Love trans
muted into the priceless treasure of a daily life
aglow with gladly given service? "By their
deeds ye shall know them!"
Oh, tell to your fellow travelers on that
transitory plane this immortal truth! It is not
their pleasure or pain that is of moment —it is
the building up of a character that shall stand
the tests of trials and difficulties and emerge
purified from selfish motives and purged from
covetousness. A character that shall admit
58 WHAT NEXT?
them to a life they little dream awaits them,
where the joys they have foregone and the per
sonal sacrifices they have made will all be re
warded by participation in Eternal Life—that
knows no pain or sorrow.
Put aside the thought of material gain and
strive earnestly for the pure gold of a heart
that thinks no evil. Make it your constant aim
to give that most precious and costly of all hu
man gifts—Love! Give it freely, without stint,
to all you meet. Let there be no limit set to the
outflow and the source of supply will automat
ically increase to supply the demand —but in a
ratio which will far exceed your utmost need.
The manner in which you express your
abundance of love will vary with circumstances.
It may be a smile, a word of sympathy. It may
be a simple service rendered or it may be a gift
that involves self-sacrifice on your part. What
ever it is, keep your eyes wide open to recognize
your opportunity. Count your riches by what
you give—not by what you receive. And still,
when others offer you a service, remember to
receive it in the same Spirit of Love.
Would that I might write upon the moun
tain tops in letters a mile high, that shivering
mortals crowded in the Valleys of Doubt, Fear
and Despair might read and live — LIFE IS
LOVE!
The more fully love is expressed in your
lives, the more radiantly alive you will become.
It is the very breath of Life Eternal! It will lift
you out of the bog of mental depression that
holds you in its numbing clutch—it will free
you from every chain that holds you in bond-
LOVE 59
age to the torture of earthly concepts and im
pulses—it will set you climbing to the heights
of self-forgetfulness, where you will find to
your surprise all the joys you sought in vain
have been stored up for you in a measure far
exceeding your most exalted dreams of bliss.
This is not a vague and visionary idea —it is
plain, unvarnished Fact!
All Joy, all fullness of Life, comes through
your obedience to the Divine Law of Love.
"LOVE IS THE FULFILLING OF THE
LAW."
CHAPTER EIGHT
OW LONG I tarried in the Temple of
Consecration I cannot tell. It was a
sacred time and what I experienced was
too intimate and personal for discus
sion.
There was given me, at the end of my period
of consecration, a definite object which typi
fied my own chosen purpose and signified Di
vine approval and acceptance of my enlistment
under the particular division of the Forces of
Construction. It was a torch whose flame could
never be extinguished, and thus I entered my
heavenly vocation and definitely cast my lot
with those serving the purpose of Light.
From the dim silence of this sanctuary I
passed through a doorway into an open court.
My appearance there seemed to be expected, for
60
WELCOME 61
I was greeted by a welcoming band of spirits
who appeared to be delighted at my arrival.
What surprised me most was the light-heart-
edness of all these friends with whom I was to
spend Eternity.
"We have many, many things to show you,
«ach more marvelous than the other!" they
cried.
So in gayest mood they "drew straws" to see
who should first conduct me to their favorite
wonder shop.
A Spirit of radiant beauty made the final
choice and drew the winning straw, so they pre
sented me to her.
"The first honors go to Music," they said.
I was mystified to know how Music could
be so closely associated with my newly acquired
friends, all serving the purpose of Light. The
entire band of welcoming spirits accompanied
us as Music led the way to the music factory
where musical instruments were made. The
process by which they were made was explained
to me but I will try to explain that to you in
another chapter.
"Who plays all these strange and wonderful
instruments?" I asked.
In reply, they took me to their musical acad
emies where countless Spirits learned to perfect
themselves in the playing of some particular in
strument. Strangely enough the noises they
made did not jangle in a horrible discord, as
one might expect, but blended in perfect har
mony.
"How can it make so pleasing a symphony
62 WHAT NEXT?
with so many playing and all of them pupils?"
I asked.
"Each plays his part (even if it is only a
single note) perfectly. Discord is not wished
for by anyone, therefore, it is absent," I was
told.
Many interesting personalities made up that
assembly of musicians and I would have en
joyed learning the earth-life histories of a few,
at least, but this was a sort of a sight-seeing
tour of the principal points of interest and I
didn't want to detain the company, so I joined
them once more and we proceeded to a Place of
Fulfillment. Here were gathered together the
composers and all who had to do with the mak
ing of melodies that play so important a part
in the world's progress.
Whenever an earthly composer feels stirring
in his soul the urge to expression, it is in answer
to the summons of the immortals, and if his
mind be attuned to the theme of their glorious
symphony, he has but to open the door of his
mind heavenward and listen with his astral
mind and his human brain will catch the har
mony they play and translate it into earth terms
comprehensible to his fellow mortals. When
such a result is consummated, you call it "in
spiration." It is actually a relaying of music
originated here on the higher planes to your
more remote sphere of activity.
My guide directed my attention to a little
chap who sat apart wrapped in dreamy medita
tion.
"He is listening to melodies from still higher
planes," she explained to me. "It is all a relay
WELCOME 63
system and the really beautiful songs and sing
ing melodies that live on in the minds and
hearts of mortals from one generation to an
other—the ones which mortals say 'can never
die'—are relayed from far beyond this plane."
"How many planes lie beyond this?" I en
quired of her.
"They are numberless as the sands of the sea
shore—they reach to the purpose beyond Per
fection."
My astral mind would not stretch to com
prehend her full meaning, but she drew my at
tention to the glow of light which seemed to
illuminate the place where they worked.
"It is always brilliantly illuminated," she
said. "They need much light for their work. It
is one of the most potent factors in the unlift-
ing of spirits on every plane."
I meant to ask her more about this but she
had left me and in her place stood one who said
her name was Art.
CHAPTER NINE
HEN I LOOKED up from my friend
Music to see who accompanied her I was
wonderstruck at the spirit who stood
at her side. Clothed in a misty, almost
transparent gauze which glowed with
a myriad changing hues, her luminous eyes ar
rested my attention and I mentally made a vow
I would never again worship beauty that lacked
the spirit-radiance which so marvelously illu
mined that lovely face.
With what grace I could muster, I stam
mered my pleasure at the introduction Music
then made, although why the youthful vision
of loveliness should condescend to notice a
clumsy tenderfoot like me, newly arrived in the
heavenly kingdom was beyond my comprehen
sion.
64
ART 65
However, I decided to accept my good for
tune without any foolish questioning and Art
gave me a glance which bade me follow her,
which I did most gladly.
After a few moments wandering through a
beautiful garden where grew flowers of every
variety you would recognize and many entirely
unknown on the earth plane —we were wrong
when we compared them to earth flowers, for
these were of a size and beauty quite unknown
to mortals, but only so can I bring you a hint
of their most exquisite and exotic loveliness —
we hurried through this flower strewn maze
and found ourselves within the portals of one
of those temples of which we have so many here
in this frontier of heaven's vast domain.
I watched with wondering eyes as Art glided
before me and pointed out the various objects
which were grouped here and there for the con
venience for those who wished to study them.
When I tell you there were statues of aston
ishing excellence, it will only convey to your
mind an imperfect idea of the reality, for these
statues carried perfection of form and feature
to a point which transcended all mortal concep
tions.
Take all the dreams of human sculptors —
their most inspired visions of achievements
never to be wholly realized in any earthly form,
and you will still fall far short of the amazing
sight which greeted my wondering eyes. What
this revelation of miraculously virtuous and
uplifting reproductions of the forms of Na
ture's material manifestations would have
meant to one who had made this a life-study
66 WHAT NEXT?
on the earth plane is within your own scope of
understanding. With my superficial knowledge
of such subjects, I was dumbfounded by their
veracity of detail and wonderful perfection of
technique.
One thing I noticed was an odd luminosity
about every subject treated which rendered it
deceptively lifelike.
"Why does every statue possess this curious
haze of light?"I questioned my guide and she
answered :
"Each object is the direct result of some vivid
conception of beauty inspired by a passionate
love of absolute perfection of line and color.
Each object thus brought into existence pos
sesses an actual spirit-essence, which manifests
itself in the glow you notice. The thought back
of the material expression has a Love-life that
is so thoroughly identified with its offspring
that all who look with the eyes of understand
ing upon the finished work catch a glimpse of
the Love-motive that gave it birth.
"That creative instinct which prompts such
expressions of an artistic nature on your earth-
plane carries the same possibility of a true spirit
quality in a lesser degree."
"Are all of these products of those who fol
lowed sculpture as their chosen profession while
on the earth-plane?" I asked.
"Oh, no!" said Art, decidedly. "Many of
the most remarkable groups were executed by
those who had never had the opportunity to
exercise their talent while on earth. Often
times, a secret longing, ever mounting higher
in its impulse for expression, creates a capacity
ART 67
for performance which is immediately put into
practice here."
The actual accomplishment of one's purpose
is of great importance on the earth-plane, but
of far more vital import is the desire. All pure
and holy aspiration tends to a development of
latent powers, even when circumstances pre
vent the tangible realization of such wonderful
visions.
Leaving the outer portals devoted to sculp
ture and its allied arts, we entered an immense
gallery hung with paintings of the masters.
Here another curious effect struck me. Every
portrait (of which there were too many to es
timate the number) possessed a distinct aura.
Upon questioning my guide, she gave me this
explanation of the phenomena: "When we
paint a likeness of any personality, even though
it be a fabrication of our own fancy, the entity
thus visualized must be endowed with certain
soul qualities. Each of these characteristics has
a distinct rate of vibration which gives it a
color. As the painting grows to perfection, un
der the direction of its creator, the predomi
nating soul-attribute imparts this vibratory
orbit to the finished portrait."
"Those of your mortal painters who have
mastered the secret of developing this vibratory
aura through a certain creative purpose which
you call genius, make use of this same law, al
though only through an intuitive perception of
its possibilities. With us it is an exact science."
What I saw in this amazing Temple of Art
would fill many volumes if I attempted to de
scribe it in detail. One thing impressed me. It
68 WHAT NEXT?
was the countless throng of spirits constantly
passing us, all intent upon the wonderful im
agery so perfectly presented.
"Are these spirits all artists in training?" I
asked.
But Art smiled.
"Not in the sense in which you classify them
thus," she assured me. "There is not one soli
tary occupation in which we are engaged which
does not embrace Art in one or more of its man
ifold forms. Beauty of form and line—beauty
of color, of texture, the tree, the flower, the
homes in which we live, our clothes, the very
food we eat; every form of life expressed in
material form is instinct with Art."
"But have you none of the grotesque, the
hideous, the vicious reproduced in your art gal
leries? Does not Art cover everything in the
realm of reality?" I questioned.
"Art serves the purpose of Light here," she
answered. "When Art is perverted and por
trays such subjects, they are banished to the
Kingdom of Darkness. There is no place for
them here."
She led me back to my father's home where
he was awaiting my return.
"You will meet me often," she said, in part
ing. "My work takes me everywhere that spirits
strive to attain perfection." And before I could
thank her, she was gone.
As I watched her retreating form, she was
joined by a multitude of spirits in whose faces
I read worship of her supreme beauty of spirit,
feature, and form.
CHAPTER TEN
ENTERED my father's home once
more and we sat for a time conversing
about the remarkable revelations which
had been made to me. I was greatly
amused by the antics of a frolicsome
kitten which played about the floor.
"How did an animal get to heaven?" I
asked, pointing to the tiny creature as it ran to
and fro, chasing the rose leaves that had
dropped from the vase my mother had carried
across the room.
You wonder that I have not mentioned my
mother's awakening; but this was my very
first glimpse of her after she had arisen from
her sleep.
"Your mother was fond of it," my father
said, with a glance of affection at the beauti
69
70 WHAT NEXT?
ful spirit who now approached me with her
well remembered, humorous smile.
"Well, Charles, we seem to have had several
mistaken ideas about heaven; but I thoroughly
approve of its being so perfectly natural and
comfortably happy," she said. Then emotion
overcame her and she gathered me to her with
all the mother-love which had ever been my
solace in the earth-life.
The ecstacy of a heavenly embrace is beyond
the comprehension of mortals. It is the ming
ling of the spiritual senses in an exquisite har
mony of emotion. No earth-love, no matter
how lofty, can equal this blending of mind
and spirit in loving unity.
"Have you seen our beautiful library?" my
mother asked.
I confessed my ignorance. What sort of a
place a heavenly library could be, my brain re
fused to conjecture. My father joined us and
we entered a very large room where there were
thousands of volumes lining the walls from
floor to ceiling. All of them were arranged in
systematic order and every subject in the uni
verse was treated in a most enlightening way.
Each book was the product of a master brain.
/'Where do you buy these books?" I stupidly
inquired.
"We pay for them in the coin of intellect,"
he answered. "The store where they are kept is
close at hand. It is kept locked, but Desire ever
holds the key, and Desire is a faithful servant
always within call. She waits patiently, and
call you ever so faintly, she will hear and pro-
DESIRE 71
duce from the written records of great minds
passed on, the knowledge you crave.
"As you learn to love and prize Desire, she
will bring to you the most amazing treasures
gleaned from the wisdom of all the centuries
gone by."
"And does she bring knowledge of evil as
well as good —records of crime as well as saintly
volumes?"
"The book you ask for, you receive, be it
good or evil; for Desire is your servant, not
your guide. As you command, so must she
obey."
I pondered this awhile and resolved within
my soul to strive ever to prove a good master
and give to Desire those commands which I
knew could be fulfilled with gladness.
A thought struck me and I looked closely at
the face of Desire.
"Why, I know you very well!" I cried.
"You were often with me on the earth plane!"
"I ever attended you from the hour of your
birth," Desire answered, laughing at the won
der in my face. "You should know me very
well indeed! I have done your bidding always.
Throughout the earth life, although you com
manded me daily, seldom did you look upon
my face and then, but dimly, did my form ap
pear to you. But, indeed, I am glad at last to
thank you for your care of me through the
years we have spent together. You have taught
me to love beautiful things—you have given
me the loveliest of garments — you have pro
vided me with companions who have brought
me much joy. Now, as you see me and recog
72 WHAT NEXT?
nize me for the first time, I kneel and thank
you for your many gifts to me."
"But 'tis you who have brought gifts," I
cried in sudden enlightenment. "You have
brought me every good gift that has ever come
to me."
"And some things not so good," Desire re
minded me and hung her head in sorrow at the
thought. But it was quickly lifted in sudden
joy. "But I brought you here!" and she gave
me a smile of triumph.
"I thought Death brought me," I answered,
quickly.
"Ah, yes! It was Death who called you
from the earth-plane, while I stood by dumb
and helpless. But, although you knew it not,
it was I who whispered to Death our destina
tion. And He obeyed me, too! I wasn't afraid
of him, even if you were!" she concluded, with
a happy little laugh.
"Ah, Desire, come closer and let us get bet
ter acquainted," I said, "Let us plot and plan
together to travel the pathway of Eternal Life
in joyous harmony and if ever I command thee
to take a backward step, pause and give me
warning that I may reconsider my command."
And this is one message I would send back
to the earth-plane—"That mortals would gaze
closely into the face of Desire and realize the
wonderful power she holds to bring you weal
or woe according to your own express com
mands."
As you rise to higher planes her powers in
crease, but even upon the earth plane it would
be difficult to place a limit to what she can ac-
DESIRE 73
complish if properly directed by her rightful
master—the human brain.
Study this handmaiden, Desire—test and try
her ability. Little do you guess the hidden
treasures of these higher planes which she will
bring at your earnest entreaty.
And one other thing I would call to your at
tention. Desire is what you make her. If you
condemn her to dull drudgery, if you deny her
the companionship of Love, of Fancy, of
Truth, of Loyalty, of Joy, if you send her on
errands of Malice and Hatred, then she will
grow ever more hideous until you will fear to
catch a glimpse of her ugly face as you summon
her to your presence to give your commands.
But treat her decently, keep her clean and
pure, healthy and happy, and you may send
her on errands of the most difficult nature and
she will serve you well.
For remember —Desire holds the key to both
Knowledge and Happiness —on the earth-plane
as well as on the planes beyond.
"Ask and ye shall receive; seek and ye shall
find; knock and the door shall be opened unto
you."
CHAPTER ELEVEN
ITH THE AID of my newly found
friend, Desire, I spent a wonderful time
in that library of my father's for a
number of days.
As I sat one day in his easy chair and
worked my mind into a foolish worry over the
multitude of things of which I discovered I had
no knowledge, or worse than that, an entirely
erroneous idea, Desire patiently labored at my
side bringing me book after book of more than
worldwide information upon every subject
upon which I chanced to wish enlightenment.
You will picture me, in a great state of be
wilderment, trying to learn in a minute, all the
mighty laws in force on this higher plane —
trying to unlearn all the utterly mistaken im
pressions I had always carried regarding life
beyond the earth-plane. The first thing I
74
WORK 75
wanted to find out was the exact process by
which these heavenly spirits acquired what you
call "the bare necessities of life" —food, drink,
clothing, homes, furnishings —where did they
come from and how?
When I questioned Desire, she brought me
a volume on Universal Laws of Vibration, and
I learned the most marvelous things about the
manner in which we may extract, as you might
put it, any desired object from the surrounding
ether and shape it to conform with our thought-
picture.
With my newly acquired insight, I delved
into the possibilities of an entirely new system
of immunity from any possible lack of what
you term the physical necessities. That their
form here differed from the material forms to
which I had been accustomed on the earth-
plane made them not one whit less real and
tangible to me.
In my eagerness to pursue the subject to its
final chapter, I studied with feverish haste,
skimming over volume after volume of the
most intricate and exhaustive treatises on this
particular subject.
I read of the creation of your world and of
countless others by a Master Mind using with
absolute precision the Laws He Himself made
for the control of the invisible but irresistibly
powerful forces of the Cosmic Universe.
Absorbed in my study of these heretofore
mysterious subjects and delighted beyond meas
ure with what I was learning, I was utterly ob
livious of the lapse of time and rather resented
my mother's interruption as she put her hand
76 WHAT NEXT?
on my shoulder and said, with her oldtime air
of authority, "Come Charles! You have done
enough studying for today! We have a feast
prepared for you in the garden and we await
your presence there."
"Please, mother, don't disturb me now! I
am learning the most wonderful things! So
wonderful I can scarcely believe they are true."
"I know perfectly well how absorbing you
find them, but I still insist on your coming with
me," she said, with a smile.
We went out into the other room where my
father stood talking with a number of spirits
unknown to me.
"My boy, I want you to meet some very dear
friends of mine," he said, and introduced me to
several scientists whose names were familiar to
me, although I had never had the pleasure of
meeting them on the earth-plane.
When we reached the garden we found there
a bountiful feast. What was the nature of the
food, and how prepared, I will try to make
clear to you. Much of the menu consisted of
various fruits, many of which resembled your
earthly varieties. There were salads, fresh and
green —and for drink, water, crystal clear and
sparkling with a winelike quality which gave
one a curious feeling of elation as one drank.
This was due, as I afterwards discovered, to a
quality of etheric energy infused during the
process of distilling.
We seated ourselves at the table spread un
der a wonderful bower of roses and as we con
versed in light and happy mood, handmaidens,
fleet-footed and silent, served us daintily and
WORK 77
bountifully, so that our appetites were most
pleasantly satisfied. I asked the names of the
spirits who so deftly supplied our unexpressed
needs and found my ever faithful maid Desire
was aided by a spirit even more pleasing to the
eye, whose name was Fancy, while flitting to
and fro was Music, playing for our entertain
ment a brand new song written and set to
sound-harmony in honor of the occasion.
I asked my father if there were some reason,
aside from pure pleasure, why Music should
attend our feast, with Laughter ever dancing
at her side. He passed the question on to a
learned scientist sitting beside me, who gave me
this explanation.
"Music is, in its final analysis, a series of vi
brations, caused by the setting in motion of
certain etheric waves of longer or shorter dura
tion. As these vibratory waves strike the astral
ear they effect a harmonizing of every form of
vibration which holds our astral bodies in their
form and thus causes, of which you are igno
rant, produce a soothing, delightful sensation
which you interpret as emotion caused by the
beauty of the melody."
"That was one very good habit we had on
the earth-plane," he remarked, "the employ
ment of orchestras at our banquets, only the
form of vibration was not always well chosen
for musical vibrations are quite capable of pro
ducing discord, if not understood and used in
accord with certain laws we are aware of here.
"We, therefore, invite music to attend us in
our work and our play, bringing that serenity
78 WHAT NEXT?
of mind so conducive to forceful and unwearied
effort.'/
As we conversed on many themes of over
whelming interest to one so entirely ignorant of
the Laws under which this plane exists, I ex
pressed my ever increasing desire to know of
what my work would consist and how soon I
would be able to take it up definitely. Then
my father spoke.
"You are now laying the absolutely neces
sary foundation for your work," he said. "The
first essential to work in any specific line is a
thorough understanding of the Law governing
its various manifestations. When you are en
tirely familiar with the cause of whatever con
dition you seek to remedy, you are then quali
fied to judge of the force which will most per
fectly control or eliminate the undesirable fea
tures and so make a really dependable change
in the conditions resulting from the natural ac
tion of this force."
"Then it would appear that knowledge must
precede all work! Must one then be idle until
one's knowledge is perfected? In that case, one
would be forever learning and never do any
thing."
"Quite the contrary," my father assured me.
"Each bit of knowledge must be tested and
proven until it is a very part of you—only in
this way can it be of any benefit to you or any
one else. Only as it becomes identified with
your very spirit itself can it manifest in any
form of force.
"Knowledge is power and this power in turn
generates more power, ever stimulated by your
WORK 79
own desire. This power must not be bottled
up to be used at some future time. It is as a
flowing stream — a mighty river of thought,
whose current ever grows more swift and force
ful as new knowledge adds fresh impetus.
"You must learn to do your work with
these thought forces. They are the dynamos
which run the machinery of the Universe. So,
whatever wheel you want to turn, you must
learn which button controls it and apply the
necessary thought force to set it revolving."
"But how—? I began."
"You learn to work by working," my father
assured me. "This is the Law!"
CHAPTER TWELVE
ILL OF MY INTEREST was now cen
tered upon acquiring an accurate, work
able knowledge of the Laws which were
used by my fellow spirits, on the heav
enly plane upon which I found myself,
to produce a thousand marvels to me utterly
inexplicable.
Imagine for a moment the sensation of fly
ing, with no visible means of propulsion,
through hundreds of miles of space and being
not in the least inconvenienced by the barrier
of a wall or a world or any material obstacle.
How? How? How? This was my only
thought for weeks.
As I became familiar with one after another
of those mysterious causes which underlie all
80
ORIGINALITY 81
material effects, I began to feel an almost child
ish pleasure in putting my newly acquired
knowledge to various tests. I learned how to
create the simpler forms of wonderful astral
flowers, which I presented to my mother with
a sense of Godlike proprietorship in their
beauty of form and color. They were "mine"
in a sense I had never before even dimly appre
hended. I had visualized their every petal and
stamen, their lovely coloring —even their frag
rance—it was all as I, their creator, had planned
it. My thought had called from the etheric es
sence emanating from the Divine Love Prin
ciple exactly the elements necessary to reproduce
my thought-flower as my mind had pictured it.
What my sensation was, as I beheld my
precious thought- flower slowly form before
me, would be very hard to describe. It was not,
however, a feeling of boastful pride but a won
dering, wisely tinctured with reverence. The
God-given powers which enabled me to pro
duce astral objects of matchless beauty and per
fection filled me with a profound sense of grat
itude to the All - pervading Love which be
stowed such powers upon me.
As I wondered about the beings who made
voices audible or projected them to far distant
points, my curiosity led me to make some inter
esting experiments. One day I made a sort of
astral radio and, after a great many trials of a
more or less laughable nature, I finally suc
ceeded in constructing an apparatus which pro
jected actual word sounds to any given point
with absolute accuracy. The same effect had
been produced before in various ways, but the
82 WHAT NEXT?
machine I was able to invent had features which
made it more direct and reliable. I made my
machine according to prevailing standards but
I found a new system of tuning which ren
dered it far more penetrating and gave it a
greater scope and consequently a wider sphere
of usefulness.
As the knowledge of life beyond the grave is
perceived and accepted as a proven fact by mor
tals, the way is opened to us whereby we are
enabled to construct a number of very helpful
channels of inter-plane communication.
You must understand that we do not at once
"become like Gods" as we step from the earth-
plane to these higher planes. Much of liberty
we enjoy —much of power—much of the abso
lute ecstacy that comes from a rightful exercise
of our marvelously amplified powers of enjoy
ment of every spirit attribute but, just as our
power of thought develops in a steady, normal
process of growth and expansion so every
power we possess is gradually unfolded.
From the very first time I was shown the
apparatus, by which the immortals reached the
consciousness of those they had left behind in
the march of progress, I was filled with a de
sire to improve and perfect the system so that
not only would we be able to contact those on
the planes below us, but the planes above would
also be included in our range of contacts. Thus
my work became specialized to a certain degree,
and I devoted my time almost exclusively to
this subject of inter-plane communication.
This point I might mention of general inter
est to every earnest student along any of the in-
ORIGINALITY 83
numerable avenues of progressive effort. As
you enter the higher planes and learn to see and
appreciate the Infinite Wisdom and Love
which prompts the Universal Laws under
which we work, you are gradually freed from
every sort of forcible supervision and allowed
to exercise your own powers of original thought
with a maximum amount of intelligent co-op
eration from other spirits intent on the same
general species of work.
There are groups, and divisions of groups,
and still other subdivisions, so that while all
work with uniform purpose, each separate en
tity is allowed full liberty to give free rein to
his imagination and every incentive is afforded
him to follow out new lines of thought to their
logical conclusion and apply the knowledge so
gained to the particular branch of progress
which has been placed under his direction.
As I watched the effect of this system upon
my fellow workers I began to see where much
of the carelessness and lethargy of our earth-
lives originate. We are too much bound by
precedent —too much governed by prejudice —
too much, far too much, held back by fear of
ridicule.
Could we of the higher planes contrive some
means by which we might reach earthbound
spirits and persuade them of the actual, under
standable life which lies beyond the earth plane,
could we instil into their minds the desire to
fathom the mysteries of the Laws governing
their lives, then they would sense the thrill of
real achievement gained through complying
with these wonder-working Laws instead of
84 WHAT NEXT?
ignorantly mis-applying them and stupidly
blaming the Law for its inevitable action.
You advocate freedom —which is all very
fine. But, who would advocate turning a mis
chievous, small boy loose in an electric power
house? Must he not be trained to know the
Laws in force before he is fit to be trusted to
manipulate the buttons and switches which
direct the application of this partially under
stood force? And do you wonder that more in
tricate and far more potent forces should have
equally wise and necessary Laws governing
their action?
Infinite Wisdom aids and abets any earnest,
constructive effort to advance in knowledge
and when that effort is directed along distinctly
original lines, following untrodden pathways
of logical reasoning, then powers invisible and
incomprehensible to mortals lend their assist
ance in meeting and overcoming the inevitable
obstacles of ignorance and jealousy which block
your progress there.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
ITH A DEEPER insight into the way
in which the Spiritual Laws affect all
physical life on the earth-plane, there
came to me a most intense longing to
return to the earth in some manner
comprehensible to mortals and give them the
benefit of my discoveries on this higher plane.
Let them in on some of the secrets of compli
ance with and use of the more difficult thought
forces which may, by proper understanding, be
so directed as to exercise so tremendous a power
over human lives.
All my study was, therefore, devoted to the
cultivation of every known channel by which
such information could be projected to the earth
plane. I learned the art of speaking through a
medium and made use of this method of com
munication on many occasions. What was
85
86 WHAT NEXT?
made clear to me on these occasions was the
difficulty of securing the services of an experi
enced stenographer and the very natural inac
curacies which occurred when such messages
were repeated from memory.
It seemed to me it would be of a distinct ben
efit to the human race, if an instrument could
be perfected, which would present to the mind
of the messenger selected, a thought-picture of
the word to be written at the same time send
ing a controlling, vibratory current to the hand
which would be a sort of safety device to elimi
nate the indistinctness and also diminish the
danger of distortion of thought vibrations by
cross currents of cosmic influence.
I worked on this for many weeks, making a
great number of tests which were not altogether
satisfactory; although I could see improvements
over previous experiments with instruments
then in use, I was not satisfied with results.
In making these tests it was necessary to se
lect some person whose receptivity was devel
oped to a certain degree. Also one whose vibra
tion naturally corresponded with my own.
During my various tests, I discovered a certain
person who was easily effected by the thought
waves, mentally. For several weeks I worked
to break through the barrier interposed by an
absolute ignorance on the subject of spirit man
ifestations of any sort and an utter lack of un
derstanding of the reason for the thoughts and
longings which came unbidden to her mind.
Perceiving the harmony of the thought vi
brations as mind spoke to mind, although un
recognized as an actual personality at that time,
LONGING 87
I was able to so impress her consciousness that
she began a systematic search for some reason
able solution for the questions that arose in her
mind and clamored for settlement.
Patiently I worked to open her mind to a
possibility of a more beautiful and satisfying
explanation of Life and its meaning than any
which had been presented to her through the
church. After several weeks of preparation
through books and teachings, I was able to influ
ence her to accept the truth. At last she reached
a place where I could safely introduce myself.
But here a difficulty arose which seemed for
a time impossible to solve. I succeeded in im
pressing her mind with the fact that someone
was trying to send her mental messages of cheer
and comfort. But, never having entertained the
idea of a spirit-mind being able to reach her, or
wishing to do so, she was merely puzzled by
these impressions.
Feeling positive that I could use her hand to
write my messages, as has frequently been done
by spirits on this plane, I made an attempt to
control her hand, but to no purpose. Having
no idea of the object of the current she felt, it
did not occur to her to give the co-operation of
intelligent attention necessary to get a message
through in this way. At last I hit upon a plan
to get this idea through to her by insistently
sending the currents of etheric thought-force to
her arm. She mentioned the feeling it occasioned
quite casually to a friend and to my joy it was
suggested that she try holding a pencil when
she felt the force in her hand and see if the pen
cil would answer the question in her mind and
88 WHAT NEXT?
explain the reason for the curious sensation she
had described.
Thus, after weeks of patient effort, at last I
was able to begin what has proved to be a most
helpful and interesting friendship. Her own in
tense interest in the truths which were presented
through this method of communication, carried
us through the initial period of mistakes and
misunderstandings and we are now loyal friends.
It was some time before she was fully con
vinced of my reality. In fact, she continually
reverted, in doubtful moments, to the possibil
ity of the whole thing being a fabrication of
her own fancy, until in desperation at her atti
tude I threatened to leave her and discontinue
the messages entirely. When she found the pen
cil refused to move and the feeling of pleasant
companionship had vanished, she discovered
that I was to her a very real and definite per
son and she assured me she did not wish to lose
my friendship.
There is a law in force on the higher planes
which prohibits our forcing ourselves or our
messages upon an unwilling mind. This law
which we understand and practice, we also
strive to impress on those who work with us on
that plane. Do not insist upon anyone's accept
ing the Truth! Do not attempt to coerce their
will, for this is the Law — only as their own
spirit craves knowledge will it be of the slight
est benefit to them.
So many teachers make the mistake of trying
to force spiritual truths upon unwilling listen
ers. This is worse than useless. Soul hunger
must precede any spiritual satisfaction to be
LONGING 89
gained from any presentation of the truth. The
appetite indicates a readiness for nourishment
in the mental and spiritual life quite as much as
the physical.
The law of supply and demand is very im
perfectly adjusted in your present state of civil
ization. There is collosal waste of material in
one place which causes a corresponding shortage
elsewhere. But in the Eternal Scheme of Life
as carried forward in these higher spheres of ac
tion, the Law of Supply and Demand acts much
more equitably.
As you consciously apply this Universal Law
to your own mental and spiritual life, you will
be surprised at the exactitude of its operation.
What you earnestly desire, you will receive.
But the earnestness of purpose is necessary for
the more perfect fulfillment. Longing, prompted
by a pure, unselfish Love-motive, cannot fail to
bring its answer—it is there waiting —you have
only to reach out with your spirit hands and
take it.
What you long for with every fiber of your
being, you shall receive. The intensity of the
desire is the measure of the response.
If you could only see as we do, you would
realize that this must be so, for the thing you
long for really prompts your longing. You
get the thing exactly wrongside foremost! Love
awaits you and it is your vague, imperfect vis
ion of Love which first awakens a longing to
know her better.
Learn to cherish every longing of your
hungry soul as a promise —which shall not fail
of a glorious fulfillment!
HIP
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
ORTALS BELIEVE in a thorough un
derstanding of what you call "practi
cal things." How to cook — make a
house—wash — conduct a business—
run a newspaper —this, that, and the
other —all most excellent things in their way
AS LONG AS THEY LAST!
Now, the question is, will you be logical
enough to concede an equally earnest considera
tion of other "practical" things which last
through that life and right on through the life
hereafter?
You have wonderful school systems, but you
need to add a few more courses! You need a
course in THINKING. That sounds absurd
but only about one student in ten ever really
gets an accurate idea of how to control and use
his brain force. He can't even keep his mind
90
WORKMANSHIP 91
focused on one object long enough to get really
started thinking about it.
When you start your boy to school you see
he is physically fit—and that is fine! Then his
mental workshop (his brain) is given a great
variety of miscellaneous work to do. Perhaps
he is wise enough to really work hard and teach
his brain habits of clear, logical reasoning, but
more often he learns his lessons like so many
chores to hurry through.
You do not realize, and naturally, cannot
teach him that your brain is a sort of index to
your character. Most mortals applaud physical
strength, pay more or less grudging tribute to
brilliance of intellect, but regard spiritual at
tainment as something to be rather ashamed of.
This exactly reverses the actual, relative im
portance of these three phases of life, especially
after you leave the earth-plane.
What we want to come back to tell you is
this—work out your lives from the inside out
—not from the outside in. Build your eternal
habitation with all that is durable, and not
with stubble that the wind will blow away.
Put your trust in those things which will abide
—not in gold and fleshly habiliments.
You are on your way to a splendid country
where Spirit is supreme over all and Mind its
servant. Then make that Spirit worthy of a
place of honor in this Land of Fulfillment.
You admire anyone who takes raw material
and forms it into shapes of beauty and useful
ness. If, with consummate skill, they shape a
thing of exquisite perfection, using patience and
wisdom in their work, you say they are gifted
92 WHAT NEXT?
beyond measure and you honor them accord
ingly. You gather their products in museums
and guard them carefully that future genera
tions may gaze upon them with awe and ad
miration.
Just look at it this way! To each of you at
birth is given a priceless, immortal gift—Your
Spirit] It possesses marvelous, latent powers
and possibilities. As this gift is placed in a cer
tain receptacle especially designed for its safe
keeping in a place of many dangers, you are
taught to care for this protective covering that
it may serve its purpose well. But instead of
guarding faithfully this beautiful, radiant
spirit, which is to live through all Eternity, you
smother it till it scarcely breathes —you starve
it until it is weak and almost dead —you teach
it to Hate when it should Love. Then, when
it has grown ugly and useless and weak from
abuse, you shake your head and say you "doubt
its divinity!" No wonder you doubt! What
have you done to the glorious being you might
have become? What sort of a workman are
you?
That is the question which decides your
status here when your time of testing is over
on the earth-plane. When you have a certain
work to be done — a splendid structure to be
erected —any important work which requires
skilled labor—do you not choose artisans of
proven merit? Why trust tasks of vital impor
tance to the mercy of inexperienced bunglers?
Picture to yourself then the arrival of a new
workman upon the scene!
"What work has he done?"
WORKMANSHIP 93
"In what particular branch of work does he
excel?"
"Show us his qualifications? What skill has
he with the tools we are using?"
These are the natural questions. This is not
a childish allegory—it is what actually hap
pens.
Can you not see that circumstances are given
as grindstones upon which to sharpen the tools
of your intellect? Your mind is given you to
use. With its aid you fashion, you guide, you
mould the spirit into a lovely, glowing, radiant
being fit to be ushered into the presence of the
Immortals.
You say you know all this. It has been told
you many times in many ways. Of course it
has! But is it real to you? Do you act as
though you believed it?
You say, "Heaven is a far-off, hazy, indefi
nite place! How do I know I shall ever get
there? Perhaps it's just imagination, anyway,
to think there is such a place —why should I
worry over it? If I go there when I die, I'll
find out all about it when I get there —that's
time enough for me!"
Ah, friends! If you could see, as I do, some
of the awakenings!
You say, "Oh well, if I go to Heaven, I'll be
made over" — but you ARE NOT MADE
OVER! You come here just as you leave there.
True, you leave your mortal body. You
are provided with an astral body which faintly
resembles your earthly one — but your mind
and your spirit remain unchanged. The place
you have fitted yourself for is the exact place
94 WHAT NEXT?
you occupy here. Your period of probation
and preparation and opportunity for rapid ad
vancement is over. Without realizing it in the
least, you have definitely defined your own
standing. Henceforth, you must work your
way up from plane to plane of spiritual attain
ment through a slow, steady, normal growth
—and growth is only possible through work.
What I would urge you to do is to try most
earnestly to realize the relative importance of
what you do there.
You are tempted — why? To make you
strong! You resist —the thing which tempted
you has lost its power to attract you. It has
accomplished its purpose. The thing itself was
not of the slightest consequence. The only
thing of any importance is—what did it do to
you—to your spirit—to your character?
You say, perhaps, that Life is too hard! You
have never had a chance!
If life is too hard for you, it is your own
fault entirely! Evil is negative—it is weakness
—it is failing to avail yourself of an inexhaust
ible supply of Wisdom, Love and Courage to
meet any and every adverse circumstance. When
you destroy, you work with negative forces,
but when you build up you ally yourself with
the irresistible forces, which never fail to come
to the aid of one who puts his whole soul into
the effort to progress spiritually, mentally, and
physically.
Good workmanship on the earth-plane is
appreciated and encouraged by those here who
are watching and guarding those who are to be
WORKMANSHIP 95
their future partners in this glorious scheme of
Life Eternal.
Don't think yourself forgotten or neglected!
Prove yourself worthy and you shall have the
help and companionship of unseen friends to
cheer you on your way to final victory beyond
the grave.
You "believe"—but I KNOW! The hand
that writes this is mortal—but the mind that
guides that hand has attained immortality and
seeks to write words that shall reach your con
sciousness and inspire you to so live that you
may inherit a Heavenly Home of undreamed
beauty and happiness.
I am living where I can see the things which
you cannot — the THINGS WHICH EN
DURE!
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
HAVE SPOKEN of an instrument —
You doubt my word—The Bible men
tions no such contrivance! Does the
Bible speak of the telegraph, the tele
phone, the radio, the electric light you
use without a twinge of conscience?
Is there anything sacrilegious in the aviator
hopping into his plane and sailing off in search
of the north pole? Yet, where one man makes
such a trip and discovers new facts you are
eager to learn, a thousand step from the earth-
plane to an unknown section of the universe —
and you shut your ears when they try to tell
you what they discover.
Do you expect soon to emigrate to the North
Pole?
Yet, tomorrow may find you transported to
this Heavenly Country!
The North Pole is the center of a cold, deso
96
VERACITY 97
late waste of uninhabitable country. Still, you
must know all about it! Well, a man goes—
presently he returns. You listen to all he has to
say. Even if he told you something entirely
contrary to your preconceived theories, you
would accept his word with implicit confidence.
Why? You believe him to be sincere in his mo
tive. He has gone with the express purpose of
aiding science and adding to the sum total of
the world's knowledge. You do not doubt his
veracity. You gladly adapt your beliefs to cor
respond with his facts.
Suppose he were unable to return—his air
plane wrecked — but he succeeded in rescuing
an apparatus for broadcasting and your radio
stations here and there picked up his messages,
you would still believe and every newspaper in
the land would help spread the good news.
There is nothing unmanly or weak-minded
about listening to what he has to say. No one
thinks you "looney" for believing what he tells
you. You don't say, "Yes, that is his name—
he did go there —he knew we wanted to find
out all about it, but how do we know it isn't
someone trying to fool us?" Not at all! You
use your common sense! You know your radio
does catch the invisible etheric waves and trans
late them into words and you accept his evi
dence.
I am sending you just that kind of a message!
I am telling you this is a beautiful country!
I mean a real place! I mean you can see and feel!
I mean you go on LIVING —not merely ex
isting!
I am telling you that what you learn and
98 WHAT NEXT?
what you do there decides your place and occu
pation here. I don't mean you keep a store or
manufacture vacuum sweepers or run a bank—
but the ability you have developed there fits
you for certain work here.
But remember one thing—you won't work
for money and you won't work to fill a cer
tain number of hours. You'll work because
you want to DO something and when it's done
it will be of some actual benefit to someone.
Perhaps, you think you don't want to work
—you want to rest, to play, to get away from
the grinding drudgery of the earth-plane. I as
sure you, it is worth all the weariness to learn
the meaning of rest. It is worth all the pain and
disappointments of the earth-life to feel the
glorious freedom and exultation of REAL
LIVING as we know it here.
If I can, in any way, bring to you an accu
rate picture of our life here, our occupations,
our amusements, our interests and ambitions,
you will recognize the supreme necessity of us
ing the opportunities given you there to pre
pare for this wider field of opportunity.
Nothing is more important to mankind than
the action of their minds in the acceptance of
new channels of information. The mere fact
that they are open to conviction is a powerful
lever for the inculcating of invaluable lessons
along lines of vital importance to the race.
More and more we are able to cut through
the intervening mist of doubt that separates us
and impress the minds of mortals with the
reality and amazing beauty of these higher
planes.
VERACITY 99
Every individual won to this consciousness
of an actual, understandable existence which
begins immediately upon the termination of
your earth-life, is one more link to weld to
gether the Forces of Constructive effort that
are urging us ever onward toward perfection.
Do not underestimate the importance of each
separate entity in the contemplation of the vast-
ness of the final aggregation. Each must be won
separately and individually and each is an ab
solutely essential part of the whole. Until every
spirit which possesses a conscious existence is
working together with every other conscious
spirit in a solid unit of constructive effort, our
work will not be done.
What we are striving to accomplish is a
general awakening of those who are ignorantly
neglecting the opportunities constantly pre
sented for their co-operation in furthering this
great work. It is worthy the best efforts of any
human being to so awaken the slumbering pur
pose in the heart of a fellow mortal.
One heart and mind aroused to the necessity
for action and recognizing the glorious possi
bilities of such a service, may lead to a vast mul
titude being finally united in one grand, trium
phant effort. It is a system of compound in
terest that piles up with surprising rapidity.
No person, once convinced of the absolute
truth of our existence on this plane, can be per
suaded to keep the knowledge to themselves. It
is far too wonderful a revelation to keep it a
secret!
MORALITY
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
HEN WE MAKE the vital change you
have named Death, we acquire auto
matically a more extended view of very
wonderful processes of which we only
catch occasional, warped glimpses on
the earth-plane.
We see action of any kind in a distended way
—that is, we visualize its effect in a manner
difficult to explain to you. Some of your wiser
philosophers have cultivated this faculty to an
extent which gives them powers which seem
miraculous to you. To us, their vision is still
extremely limited.
But the point I wish to bring out is this:
Whereas, you strive by many laws (not Uni
versal Laws of cause and effect but petty laws
of punishment arbitrarily inflicted) to curb the
consequences of human folly and misdirected
energy—we, of the higher planes, are taught in
100
MORALITY- ••iei-
a far different manner to respect and cheerfully
comply with every Law provided for our own
best progress.
You treat Crime as a mental monstrosity
which must be caged and tortured until it is by
some not-yet-discovered wonder of inverse logic
rendered quite docile and tractable. When your
eyes are opened to the wider vistas of truly Con
structive Effort, you will plainly see the faulty
logic of such reasoning.
Crime is in itself a punishment. Isolation is
often a necessity for the safety of others, but
mere brutal, physical punishment will never
prove a successful remedy. All the whipping
in the world never made a boy love Truth,
Honesty and Justice!
As you progress in the natural order of
things, from mortal body to astral form, you
are ushered into a much more wise and equit
able administration of the Laws which are nec
essary for the continuity of life. Here, knowl
edge forms the basis for progression. We don't
say a man is "bad," we say he is ignorant.
Suppose your child were made ill by eating
poison of some sort—you would first relieve
his physical pain, and then impress the lesson
Nature had given, by telling him the natural
laws governing the action of poison, and spec
ify what substances produced such dire results.
In other words, you would teach him the Law
of Cause and Effect.
Every Universal Law is planned for your
own protection, progress and pleasure. Were
you to understand and apply these Laws (even
as an absolutely selfish proposition) you would
•:..:/• what next?
gain personally in every way through such a
course. Every physical blessing comes through
a strict observance of the Laws of Health. Every
intellectual achievement is attained through the
application of the mind in accordance with cer
tain fixed laws. Every spiritual accomplish
ment is the direct result of your obedience to a
definite Law provided for this specific purpose.
While I was consciously concentrating on
the various forces by which certain effects are
produced (such as the etheric waves which
carry sounds, or rather reproduce the vibrations
which cause sound) it was more and more
forcibly brought to my attention that what you
call Sin, or Crime, is simply Ignorance of the
Law and its inevitable effect. The only cure
for these ills (rightly so named) is a simple
course of instruction in Universal Laws.
I am not alone in the earnest wish to return
to the earth-plane and try to open the eyes of
mortals to the tremendous advantage of gain
ing a better understanding of these Universal
Laws and their wonderful power to transform
a mortal existence into a magnificent affair in
stead of the sorry muddle so many make of it.
When I talked with those who had at
tempted to reach the ears of mortals, I found
them very skeptical over my ability to make
any impression on mortal minds through direct
communication.
"You will find they don't want to hear from
us!"
"They fear us!"
"They feel it is blasphemous to claim to have
listened to our voices!"
MORALITY 103
"They think we are devils trying to tempt
them!"
"They think we are annihilated and resent
our continued existence!"
J'They are doing things in secret their own
judgment tells them are wrong and they can't
bear to think we know about them!" So the
comments ran.
So many had tried and met with every sort
of rebuff. No wonder they gave it up. Of
course, a few persisted and were finally fully
identified and warmly welcomed by their loved
ones, but the preponderance of public sentiment
was violently opposed to such demonstrations.
And, yet it seemed to me the only hope of
making any real progress in helping those on
the earth-plane was through convincing them
of a real, sane, dignified and monstrously in
teresting and active life after they cast aside
their cumbersome material bodies and assumed
control of a strictly modern, up-to-date, effi
cient body capable of indefinite power and
service.
What is a body anyway but a machine? Who
ever heard of a man or woman with any pep
and gumption over running a car, who would
refuse to change a squeaky, worn-out, old four-
cylinder car for a powerful, smooth-running
car of the latest model? I'm just making a com
parison you can understand.
Study your machine! Learn a little about its
construction and learn the traffic rules. Learn
to be a good driver and you'll find it easy to
slip into your new car and really enjoy its in
creased speed and power.
104 WHAT NEXT?
Do I shock you with my everyday compari
sons? Can't you understand that we are still
confronted with "everyday" tasks here?
That's just the message I'm bound and de
termined to get through to you!
You go on LIVING—useful, happy, help
ful lives, if you so WILL.
You go on LEARNING —starting HERE
where you left off THERE.
You go on LOVING—the things you have
loved there (unless they are silly, useless things
you must gradually discard) .
You say, "How do I KNOW?"
If you are as sensible as I think you are, you
will FIND OUT.
You can if you want to, but you'll have to
admit the possibility of there being something
to find out before you make any attempt to
really bridge the chasm of silence that has so
long interposed an impalpable barrier between
your plane and mine.
If I come through the mist to meet you, may
we not pierce the dark curtain of doubt and
let in, at least, enough light to prove there is
something more than an Eternal blankness be
yond the veil.
At least I am determined to try.
HE RED I TY
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
HEN I STARTED studying the sub
ject of maintaining a steady, depend
able contact with the earth-plane with
the object in view of giving to mortals
the privilege of acquiring information
which might be of real benefit to them, I was
brought to see what a sad muddle mortals
make of the period which has been provided
for their development of various attributes of
character.
For life on the earth-plane is like a spiritual
gymnasium. One is supposed to use the dif
ferent apparatus devised by the Master Trainer
to develop Faith, Love, Patience, Loyalty—in
fact, every soul muscle should be strengthened
and rendered fit for any strain which may be
put upon it.
Life, the trainer, gives us such circumstances
105
106 WHAT NEXT?
as seem best suited to develop our weak points.
For Life is ever conniving with Nature to cir
cumvent our heedlessness and folly. Together
they must contrive, in some way, to bring mor
tals under the Law of Progression. They seek
valiantly to strengthen and build up what man
ruthlessly and witlessly destroys.
The mortal who consciously and gladly al
lies himself with these mighty Universal Forces
and intelligently follows out their Constructive
Purpose in his own life, may accomplish seem
ing miracles with the utmost ease.
When obstacles arise, let him tackle them
with a will, realizing that only so may he de
velop the wonderful power and endurance
which makes him impervious to temptation.
Life holds for you rare gifts. They are
placed (for a wise purpose) just beyond your
reach. As you patiently and steadfastly press
forward to grasp these gifts, your character
gradually attains grace and symmetry—until
you "measure unto the full stature of a man"
—that is, a spiritually perfect, fully developed
Mortal, eligible for the Life Immortal which
is your inheritance here.
We see, immediately we step across the thres
hold of life into the higher planes, how tre
mendously important is this period of earthly
training and development.
Since the world began, mortals have been
vouchsafed in various ways, visions of the
glories of this Life Beyond. The form of these
revelations has varied with the mental develop
ment and spiritual perception of those to whom
they were sent. What was the use showing
HEREDITY 107
them things they could not faintly glimpse the
meaning of? Tell a Hottentot of a radio, and
it would not create in his mind a ripple of in
terest. It is too far beyond him.
So mortals were shown symbols (to them
understandable) of the wonders of these higher
planes. These appeared to them as a form of
reward for certain acts of devotion rather than
the natural, logical consequence of all mortal
effort toward progression. Thus originated the
childishly twisted conception of a Supreme Be
ing who erratically and capriciously dispensed
these gifts quite without regard to any fitness
on the part of the recipient to accept or use
them.
Thus we have, to this day, in every religion,
a smattering of this crude, almost laughable
conception of an irrational, at times a diaboli
cal, Ruler of the Universe who personally su
pervises the endless torture of those who do not,
in some mysterious manner, curry favor with
Him, and so insure immunity from an outpour
ing of His wrath.
Most mortals today (unhampered by the
traditions of the past) would gladly accept a
logical presentation of the Truth.
Could the marvelously wise Scheme of the
Universe, (not only as the Supreme Creator
planned it, but as it is actually working out to
day) be presented to their minds in a more ex
tended vision, which includes this next step in
its endless progression toward Perfection—then
there would begin on earth an era of un
dreamed-of prosperity.
Many thousands see the Light—many mil-
108 WHAT NEXT?
lions long to see and understand, but they cling
to the worthless symbols of bygone days.
Perhaps they cast them aside as inadequate to
satisfy their present needs, but still they fear to
entirely cut loose and follow a new revelation
of Eternal Progress.
It is this hereditary blindness we of the
Higher Planes seek to cure.
But you say, "God does not change?" and
you are absolutely correct. God —All-wise —
All-powerful —All-loving—was, is and ever
will be the same changeless Ruler of this chang
ing Universe.
Because your turbulent minds caught a dis
torted vision of His character and purpose yes
terday, shall the clearer vision of today be
deemed untrue?
Cast aside your outgrown creeds — forget
your impotent dogmas —loosen the clutch of
hereditary superstitions and follow fearlessly
the Path of Progress.
You will find it is the Path the Master trod
—for Christ taught Eternal Truths. Yet He
spoke in parables, trying to adjust the meaning
of His message to the limited mental and spirit
ual development of His audience.
We would make a still further adjustment
of these same teachings. We are enabled,
through the rapid progress of the past few
years, to reach the mentality of mortals, while
we are still on a higher plane, with correspond
ing vibrations. Those of yet higher planes must
reach the earth-plane through us. It is a relay
system.
There have always been gifted ones who have
HEREDITY 109
possessed a supersensitiveness to vibratory in
fluences who could receive such messages, but
the time is close at hand, when all who will,
may confirm their belief in a Life Beyond the
earth-plane by actual, undeniable, personal
proof of its existence.
This is the purpose of my determined effort
to break down the wall which unbelief has
erected between us, send a challenge to the
world to prove I am not real —not living—not
gloriously happy! To defy the scoffers and
convince the earnest seekers after Truth, that
their hope of immortality is indeed to be ful
filled —that the Earth-life is merely the pre
lude to the mighty song of Eternal-Life and
Love. "To those who believe shall be given to
drink of the Water of Life freely."
I would lend you my eyes that you might see
the boundless opportunities life affords you to
prepare for this wider, fuller, infinitely-satisfy
ing life beyond the grave—that grave you fear
but never enter, for never yet has the spirit of
a mortal man been held in the narrow confines
of a grave. As you view the uninhabited body,
the spirit soars to new worlds to continue in un
interrupted sequence the march toward Perfec
tion begun on the earth-plane.
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
HEN YOU REACH the plane where I
am, you will place a very different
value on beauty. Each object which
my eye rests upon is beautiful in form
and color. The thought which brought
it into being was beautiful, therefore, it cannot
be otherwise.
Beauty is absolutely essential to spiritual
growth. Have you not noticed how sensitive
to beauty are those whom you recognize as pos
sessing more than ordinary ability in any given
direction. Love of perfection along any line is
a .sign of progressiveness. Even the worst case
of personal vanity (which everyone dispises)
is not quite so hopeless as it seems. Change the
quality of selfishness which makes it repulsive
and you have a wise and just appreciation of
110
BEAUTY 111
one's own possibilities and responsibilities.
To us, the present wild orgy of paint, pow
der, jazz and petting parties is a sign of awak
ened desire wrongly directed. These young
folks want something they don't know how to
get. This girl with her crude attempt to make
herself beautiful, her fierce determination to
live her own life and choose her own pleasures,
is far from hopeless. She wants something that
the primly conventional conduct laid down for
her by her ancestors for generations past fails
to give her.
What she needs is not a curb and bit with a
touch of the whip to bring her to her senses, as
so many good people advocate. What she needs
is a channel for her awakened energy and long
ing for self-expression. Don't dam it up, that
is dangerous, that is where the trouble has been
in the past. Self-repression has been woman's
handicap for centuries. Now the dam has
broken and you have a flood of pent-up energy
and ambition turned loose with no adequate
provision made for its legitimate distribution
and use.
When you substitute knowledge for the
present ghastly ignorance — when you teach
them the vast difference between the false and
the genuine—when you stop trying to quiet
them with time-worn admonitions and give
them what they are seeking — real interests,
wonderful visions of real accomplishments —
real beauty and real affection —they will gladly
relinquish the counterfeit they have found so
unsatisfactory.
If you cannot teach them (or will not) then
112 WHAT NEXT?
the great teacher, Life, must show them the
Truth!
Life is beautiful —Truth is beautiful —Love
is beautiful. Why do you make them ugly as
you present them to your sons and daughters?
Why do you clothe them in Fear, which is the
ugliest garment you can find with which to
disguise their true character? Do away with
FEAR entirely and let LOVE take its place!
Teach your young folks to go to meet Life
fearlessly, joyously, confident that it holds for
them all they crave of glorious achievement.
Instead of holding them back, warning, dis
couraging — urge them forward, teach them
confidence and show your faith in their certain
ultimate victory.
When you realize the real meaning of Life,
in its relation to this next phase of existence,
you will be in a position to point out the very
obvious advantages of a thorough preparation
for it.
Indeed, in view of what awaits you here,
there will be a tremendous change in your
whole attitude toward life there. It will be
changed from a drab, meager, disappointing
struggle for an ever vanishing dream of happi
ness, to a radiant, glowing demonstration of
the Divine Love which has the power to trans
form and beautify the most ordinary life.
This eternal quest for Beauty is in itself a
truly lovely thing. Those who seek for Beauty
may adopt strange methods in their anxiety to
discover where she hides—they may often mis
take her identity and overlook her entirely or
be misled by her many deceptive imitators, such
BEAUTY 113
as Vanity, Pride and Ostentation—for Beauty
is shy and lurks in quiet, lovesome spots among
the simple, natural surroundings of unspoiled
Innocence and Purity.
And still, the most beautiful spirits that
come to join us here have often been counted
quite plain and uncultured there. They have
lacked, perhaps, the material blessings which
tend to lend grace and charm to the physical
body, but they have kept their spirits glowing
with health —bathed in a quiet tranquillity of
Faith — ever alert to offer Sympathy, Love,
Service. A spirit that had grown with exquisite
simplicity of motive to a strength of purpose,
a symmetry of character which even shone
through the clumsy robe of flesh and compelled
the admiration of earth-blind mortals.
There is nothing virtuous or desirable about
an ugly, misformed body. It is the result of
countless errors of those who preceded it. The
body should be cared for most skillfully and in
telligently. It will amply repay you for the
most painstaking and systematic attention. It
is the home of your spirit. Much of your spirit's
health and happiness depends upon the way
you keep your body fresh and clean and ready
for instant service at all times.
Much can be done to improve the appearance
and mechanical action of this body of yours
through a better understanding of laws already
known, and others more or less mysterious to
most of you now. Although your present body
is to be laid aside for the far more beautiful and
expressive astral body which clothes our spirits
here, still, while you do possess it you are
114 WHAT NEXT?
greatly dependent upon its health for the nor
mal development of your spirit life.
Cherish this body of yours—train it in hab
its of clean, wholesome living—give it the ben
efit of fresh air, sunshine and water—these are
the three best and safest tonics any doctor can
prescribe. There are other forces of a curative
nature which you may summon at will from
the surrounding ether, but it is not the inten
tion of this book to go into details regarding
this and other knowledge of a more technical
nature. This subject alone would fill an entire
volume if treated properly. It cannot be clearly
demonstrated and explained in a few sentences.
If the subject of bodily training, for efficiency,
interests you there are many excellent books
which will enlighten you on its various aspects.
It has occupied the attention of many very able
men.
Bodily development, beauty of form and
wonderful grace come from systematic exercise
and training. This is very important and really
precedes the still more important training of
the brain, but of that we shall treat in another
chapter.
HENTALITYt
CHAPTER NINETEEN
E NEED NOT let our minds rust for
lack of use when we have so wide a uni
verse for them to play around in. If
one subject fails to interest you, try an
other. Hunt for your "natural bent."
Everyone has one! When you find the one
thing you never tire of, that is a sure indication
you have discovered your real talent. Your task
then is to develop that talent. And whatever
else you may be, don't be ashamed of that tal
ent and try to camouflage it with a lot of flu-
mididdles that don't go with it at all!
You have a right to live your own life in
your way. Don't let fear of ridicule deter you
and don't count your progress altogether by
the amount of gold you are able to accumulate.
When Burbank left that plane, he left—
what? Gold? Any man could have done that.
It doesn't take any great amount of brains to
115
116 WHAT NEXT?
make money the way most of it is made —self
ishly.
When Burbank came to join us here, he
brought as his passport a wonderful talent,
carefully and skillfully developed through long
years of patient effort. Do you think for one
moment we did not honor him for his devotion
to his own individual purpose and its marvel
ous growth from a mere vague, you might say
visionary, ideal to a beautiful reality? So, also,
men honor and revere Luther Burbank. He had
already joined the ranks of the Immortals be
fore he left the earth-plane. We watched, with
eager anticipation, his awakening from the
earth-daze. When he fully aroused and discov
ered he was really alive, and that his work here
would be a continuation of his earth-life among
the flowers and plants he loved, his enthusiasm
was a joy to behold! The fact that he did not
believe in a vengeful Diety with human frailties
and human loves and hates did not for one mo
ment prevent his letting the Spirit of Love
work through him for the progress of your
world toward perfection. The words you
quibble over are so unessential. It's the idea
they represent that is of importance.
Man cannot worship Goodness, Beauty and
Purity without worshiping God. Every flower
is God smiling at you! Every beauty of Nature
—the glow of the sunset — the music of the
waterfall —the mysteries of the heavens—are
whispers of God to your spirit. And very few
will dispute the fact that a little innocent child
is God reaching down to bless you.
When the orbit of our conscious mind en-
MENTALITY 117
circles a new strata of Truth, we are automati
cally raised to a higher plane of thought. Our
vision broadens and every aspect of Life as
sumes a more correct proportion.
Our passing from the earth-plane to a higher
state of existence, where we are freed from the
limitations of our earthly bodies, does not nec
essarily imply that we at once attain any con
siderable proficiency in the use of the latent
powers set free by this transition.
No mortal undisciplined and untrained in
the more subtle attributes of his spirit nature
can hope to step immediately into the possession
of those faculties which render life on the higher
planes so glorious an adventure.
Only the truly devout followers of the prin
ciples of living so clearly set forth in the New
Testament can hope to attain any degree of
proficiency in the modes of thought which
adapt his spirit to the requirements of this at
mosphere of high thinking and high living.
When the mind of a mortal is imbued with
Love—that Divine Love of which the Christ
was the mortal manifestation, then will his
thoughts bear the imprint of a greater Mind
than his own. It is as though Love opened a
door into his mind through which there en
tered a marvelous mist of gold which worked a
miracle and changed each thought into a gleam
ing, golden glory which made the eyes of mor
tals light with hope.
Make a mental note of this very important
difference between a "Love- thought" and the
most scintillating wit of a master brain un-
118 WHAT NEXT?
lighted by the divine glow that comes from this
life-giving force.
The Love- thought has the power to per
meate an almost impenetrable wall of opposi
tion. It may be clothed in the simplest of word
garments, make no pretense of more than ordi
nary beauty; but a Love-thought, however sim
ply expressed, glows with a warm, living Love-
principle that possesses an omnipotent power
to attract and influence other minds; while the
thought unlighted by this divine quality of
spirit slashes with the fleeting glory of a meteor
and falls lifeless to the earth—its burst of elo
quence devoid of any lasting power over the
living souls of men.
We may use the precious endowment of in
tellect we all possess in either of these two ways
—what we must at last come to realize is the
fact that not only are we responsible for our
spoken words, but the thought they clothe has
actual power to hurt or to heal—to lift up or
to drag down —to bring light or to plunge into
darkness—exactly in proportion to its activa
ting Love-motive.
We, of the higher planes, work unceasingly
to acquire power of intellect, but we place far
greater value on the Spirit-power back of the
thought which supplies its pulsating etheric
essence of energy.
With every thought that emanates from a
mortal mind, there goes forth more than a
pleasant or an unpleasant word-picture. A posi
tive spirit-power for good or evil is hidden be
neath the words. This power is the spirit of
the message presented and is brought into be
MENTALITY 119
ing by the Motive that prompted the expres
sion in word-form of the thought. Thus we
are all of us creators in a sense not ordinarily
comprehended by mortals.
The thought then, clothed in its material
garment of words (which may be as simple or
elaborate as one's fancy dictates) has Life. This
life may be a feeble, flickering flame, in which
case its light and warmth are quickly extin
guished and it dies without having made any
lasting impression on any conscious entity.
But suppose it to be conceived in Hate and
brought forth in Malice; this gives it a spurious
but powerful Life-principle which manifests
itself in any number of hurtful ways.
But, take the Love-thought, born through a
fusion of a selfless flame of service for others
and a divine spirit of love, and the Thought-
child possesses a vitality which makes mortals
marvel. A book or a song thus fathered and
mothered may live for years or centuries!
We, of the higher planes, learn to make use
of this thought creation in its more vital and
far-reaching forms.
Not only has a thought a distinct life of its
own as you send it forth from your brain, but
it has the power to multiply itself and produce
like thoughts in the minds of those it touches.
A thought may and does possess this same
power whether it is put into words or cast
forth as pure spirit, but I speak here of the con
scious mental Thought-child in its commonly
accepted Word-form.
CHAPTER TWENTY
T IS GENERALLY conceded to be a
fact that no mortal can trace the begin
ning of a thought. It is as real as the
sun in the heavens, yet it comes to you,
you know not whence.
Your deepest desires are also mysterious in
their origin. They may have some plausible
excuse for their existence but more often they
are as unexplainable as the cyclone that sweeps
across the face of the earth in sudden fury.
Men take them for granted in a sort of fatal
istic way, giving sway to them from force of
necessity. That such a mortal process of mind
is the result of certain forces culled from the
surrounding ether by a quality of soul you un
consciously possess from birth never seems to
occur to your scientists who dig and delve for
hidden causes.
Training and environment can and do de
termine your physical condition and mental
120
WINNING IMMORTALITY 121
attitude to a large extent, but beneath the sur
face polish and acquired system of conduct lies
a strata of consciousness that yields to no forced
methods of cultivation. It is the keynote of
your character and sooner or later, in some way,
it will work its will with your destiny.
You may train your body in habits con
ducive to health and physical well being—you
may train your mind to habits of strong, logi
cal reasoning —but who can train a man's soul
if he has no visicn, no yearning for the higher
things cf life, no reaching out to the life be
yond?
Men make themselves miserable struggling
against some irresistible impulse strengthened
by indulgence, yet they overlook the only natu
ral and effectual way to check and conquer its
devastating sway. The desire is the result of a
certain quality of soul. They must go deep
enough to recognize and deal with this soul-
quality before any permanent change can be ef
fected in the hidden motives that actuate all
mental and physical processes.
Act on the assumption that man cannot
change this quality of soul by any conscious ef
fort of mind and you make him a puppet—a
plaything of chance! But grant that he may
call to his aid a mighty transforming power
which will charge this soul with a motivating
instinct for better, higher things and you will
arrive at the actual starting point of all prog
ress —mental, moral and physical.
What this power is and whence it comes is
the problem whose baffling answer has eluded
the search of the learned in mortal professions
122 WHAT NEXT?
of vastly intricate pursuits along the Highway
of Knowledge and has been revealed to those
who, in lowly obscurity, have pitted their puny
strength against the tide of material evidence
hurled at them by would-be teachers. Beaten
and buffeted by every trial and vicissitude of
adverse circumstance, they have still clung with
glorious tenacity of purpose to their inborn
faith in a spiritual life immune from the disap
pointments and sorrows that beset their earthly
existence.
To these loyal souls is granted the privilege
of sharing in their earth-life the joys which
have no mental or physical origin but spring
pure and fresh from the Immortal Spirit of
Love Eternal!
What matters it, the path they take to reach
the portals of this beautiful Land of Dreams
Fulfilled? When each one enters the promised
home "Prepared for those who love Him" they
will forget all about the curious little idiosyn
crasies that distinguished their pet theories dur
ing the earth-life in the amazing revelation of
a life too gloriously complete to admit of one
thought which might cause a note of discord to
creep in and mar the soul-satisfying harmony
and beauty of the whole.
Unity of purpose, with its natural offspring
Harmony of Thought and Act, receives far too
scant attention from those who imagine them
selves to be following the footsteps of the
Christ. Perhaps, the most important lesson
which can be brought home to the minds and
hearts of Christ's followers, is the fact that all
the struggle and sacrifice necessary to build up
WINNING IMMORTALITY 123
a church of ANY denomination is "as sound
ing brass and tinkling cymbal" if, in the stress
of building a beautiful exterior, they have lost
sight of the Church Invisible, whose founda
tion is Love, whose pillars are Faith and Hope,
whose aisles are open to all who hunger and
thirst after righteousness and whose mission is
to feed the hungry the Bread of Life!
When will mortals be called to account for
their substituting of material gifts for the real,
priceless gifts which God, their Spiritual Father,
asks of them? Give love, give sympathy, give
kindly deeds, give all that mortal mind can de
vise to comfort and encourage those about you;
and if these be best expressed by the gold you
count so precious, then give of your gold; but
let the gift be sanctified by the Spirit of Love
before it reaches the altar of the Divine Ruler
of the Universe, else will it fail of its mission
to others and also fail of its promised blessing
to you, the giver!
Count the value of your gift, not by the size
of its earthly contents, but by the strength of
the purpose which prompted it. He who gives
without thought of self will be truly blessed
in the giving. "Whether, therefore, ye eat or
drink or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory
of God!"
What I am trying to impress on your mind
is that all human effort is useless, all attempted
achievement futile unless the motive be pure.
When you purify your innermost sanctuary
where dwells your spirit, more than you can
possibly conceive will be the ratio of improve
ment in every function of mind and body.
124 WHAT NEXT?
Why do mortals make the absurd mistake of
maintaining a costly and elaborate retinue of
servants to gild the outside of their mortal
bodies and let the inmate freeze to death for
lack of the Divine Flame of Love? What a
deplorable failure you make of life when you
deny the absolute supremacy of the spirit!
When the spirit is warmed and fed and its radi
ance undimmed by a smothering load of un
necessary material paraphernalia, then the winds
may blow and the tempests rage—Peace reins
and Joy abides in spite of all outward condi
tions.
Now this positively is NOT "religious cant"
—it's positive Truth. It has been demonstrated
all through the ages —it is true for you today.
The Spirit, heaven-born and heaven-sus
tained, must and shall rule before the soul of
man can reach its rightful place and claim its
divine inheritance of Immortality!
CONCLUSION
Friday, May 14th, 1926.
I am very happy tonight over the consum
mation of my clearly cherished scheme of reach
ing the Earth-plane with a message that should
appeal to the plain, workaday man or woman
who does not have the time or inclination to
ferret out the Truth from the more abstruse
and involved philosophies which have hereto
fore expounded this theory of progressive voli
tion of action from plane to plane.
The American people are my own country
men! For them I feel that peculiar bond of
love and loyalty which stirs within the soul of
all true-hearted mortals at thought of those
dear to them through the home ties.
Although now an inhabitant of the limit
less expanse of the Cosmic Universe which
knows no arbitrary boundaries of color, speech
or nationality among its citizens, still my heart
goes questing back to the dear, frank, inquisi
tive fun-loving American whom I call brother
in a sense you all understand. We think along
the same lines, we feel the same impulse to scoff
at subterfuge and fight for the truth, we pos
sess the same respect and tenderness for all that
is truly beautiful.
^May this simple, sincere message from one
who has passed through the portals that lead
to the Next Step in our eternal progress toward
Perfection, be received in the same spirit of
125
126 WHAT NEXT?
hearty comradeship in which it is sent.
I thank you for your fair, unbiased reading
of my words of sympathetic warning and ad
monition. I know some things you are wanting
to know. I have tried to answer some questions
I, myself, was asking very recently. If I have
succeeded in convincing you of my own pert
sonal existence as a conscious entity, with every
faculty you possess and many you have not
yet developed, then the purpose of this book
will have been accomplished and you will be in
a better position to prepare yourself sensibly
and more competently for What Comes Next.
"C. N.
NOTE
If this little book has in any way helped you
to see a little deeper into God's purpose with
regard to your own life, here and hereafter, let
another share it with you! Thus you will be
doubly blessed!
By special request of the author,
"C. N."
READ THIS
The subjects are treated in question and answer form—
the easiest method to understand.
COMMUNICATION AND HOW ESTABLISHED
TESTS AND EVIDENTIAL MATTER
SPIRIT LAND AND SPIRIT HOMES
THE NEGATIVE ASPECT OF SPIRIT LIFE
ACTIVITIES AND OCCUPATIONS
THE AURA, PERSONALITY AND INDIVIDUALISM
OTHER WORLDS AND OTHER UNIVERSES
REINCARNATION, FALSE OR TRUE
SPIRITUALISM AND THE BIBLE
THE AWAKENING
THE SPIRIT BODY
SPIRIT SENSES
SPIRIT LIFE
LANGUAGE AND SPEECH
STUDY AND TEACHING
LOVE AND SERVICE
SPIRIT FORCES
VIBRATION FORCES
UNDEVELOPED SPIRITS
SPIRIT INFLUENCES
PROGRESS
EVIL
SPHERES, CIRCLES AND PLANES, MESSENGER
SERVICE, MOVEMENT AND TRAVEL, ASTRONOMY
AND CHEMISTRY, OBSESSION, THINKING, GHOSTS,
RIGHT LIVING, RACE PROBLEMS, GOD, SUBCON
SCIOUS MIND, INFANTS IN SPIRIT LAND, DEATH,
LIFE, TIME, GUIDES, MENTAL PROCESSES, SPIRIT
CLOTHES, EVOLUTION, GEOGRAPHY OF THE
HEAVENLY SPHERES
If you WANT your many WONDERS satisfied and
your QUESTIONS answered so YOU understand them,
Read and STUDY
SPIRIT WORLD AND SPIRIT LIFE
Especially Priced: $1.75. Postage Paid.
272 pages and beautifully bound in green cloth.
COSMOS PUBLISHING CO.
BOULDER CREEK - - -CALIFORNIA
Printed by
CHASE « RAE
OCCULT BOOK PUBLISHERS
548 CASTRO STREET
IAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
