{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__krishnamurti___temple_talks.pdf","mytitle":"Temple Talks","mylang":"de"}
o r *
T
emple
talks
J.KMSHNAHURTI
t A f e K q F f f c , .
H
B
HOLL AN
introduction
These talks were delivered by Krishnaji during the
winter of 1925-26, in the Hindu Temple at Adyar,
Madras, India, in connection with the reformed Puja
instituted by the Bharata Samaj. Krishnaji endeav­
ours in these talks to express the spirit which
should underlie every form of religious worship, the
ideal which both priest and congregation should keep
before themselves if religion is to be a living force
and not merely a dead form. He speaks of the new
dawn which is breaking over the world and is eager
that India shall take her rightful place among the
nations that are working for the coming day.
India has ever been the spiritual mother of the world,
and if she is once again to play her part in the
spiritual regeneration of mankind, she must cease to
be satisfied with a past which, however great, is of
little value unless it leads on to the creation of a still
more glorious future.
Will India rise to the measure of her opportunity?
is the question which underlies these Temple Talks.
temple talks
I
•*
If you have travelled a great deal and have had the
privilege of observing a great m any things, you w ill
find that people all over the world ask: "W h y has
India lasted through all these centuries; w hy has its
civilisation not crumbled like th a t of other nations;
why have its people not succumbed to the pressure
of the Western world?” — and the only reply you
| can give is that Indian civilisation has been founded
on religion.
I In India, religion is like a vast tree w ith its roots and
branches spreading all over, giving protection from
the burning sun, giving shade and shelter and com­
fort. But that great tree has begun to shed its leaves
and it no longer affords us the same protection; the
( rays of the sun penetrate through the branches and
i s°orch us. The Tree of Life no longer gives us the
same shade as of old; the fruits of religion no
longer satisfy the intelligence or the emotions.
The Tree has suffered and is dyin g th ro u g h lack o f
nourishment. We have to give it new life . We have
^ to realise religio n in its purest fo rm .
} It is only th ro u g h re lig io n th a t we can m aintain a '
high standard o f liv in g , th a t we can have a noble
attitude o f m ind tow ards every question. The great­
ness o f re lig io n , the greatness o f the Teacher, the
greatness o f those who fo llo w zealously, intensely,
depends on how fa r we can tran slate religion to the
V j physical plane. It is essential th a t religion should
once m ore play a d efin ite role in life . It m ust no
longer be the P riest alone who is th o u g h t o f as great
7
and noble. The congregation, the people, m
u
equally live up to the noble standards set for th*
Priest in the olden days. Worship must not becoi^l/,
a mere outer form, the Temple must not merely y
a building of bricks and m ortar, the ceremonies m
ust
not merely be chanting in a particular tone.
must set a new standard of desires and emotions.
We have to bring about a new way of life and it
must be started by all those who have the revival]
of Hinduism at heart, who desire to see India return
to her former greatness and culture.
The old Tree is beginning to put forth new roots and
tender leaves and soon it will become once more a
protection from the blazing sun. In each of us a new
life is beginning to awaken. It is vital that we should
have new standards of thought and carry these new
standards into every action of our lives. It is not
enough merely to feel sentimental devotion, merely
to go into ecstasies of worship during the Puja.* We
must carry our devotion, our worship, into daily life.
Religion carried out in daily life matters far more
than religion in the Temple.
In the rays of the morning sun everything becomes
more beautiful, every flower has a sweeter scent
than in the evening. Most of us have reached the
evening time, and the cool dews and the soft breezel
of the night will enable us to become as new buds
on the Tree of Life, giving scent to all the world, Wq
must feel the new life springing forth within us,
producing new leaves, new roots, new beauty, so
that the old Tree may live again and give fresM
shade and protection to the world.
d
i f
ft
* Ceremonial worship.
8
2^
m
m
KV
V
fj
a
i
ii
• only achieves its purpose when it becomes
^ in our thoughts in our emotions, and in our
j^Mon and adoration are not intended to be fo r
one"moment only; they should be the result o f
constant pressure from the higher worlds,- and if we
do not respond w illingly to th a t urge, we shall have
respond to it through suffering and m isery. It is
little use to worship, to feel the flo w of adoration
I merely in the Temple- You m ust carry it w ith you
•| wherever you go; you must feel that, you are p a rt
I of;the Temple, its Priest in- th e outer w orld, and you
must act the part of •a d riest w herever you go and
jnot merely act the part o f a worshipper. It is the
primary duty of all religion to teach ds how to
remain all day long a£ the high standard^of thought
andfeeling that We experience a t the tim e of worship.
Religion is the greatest support we can have in life .
It is the moral crutch of those who are lame*
Religion upholds us^w hether we he happy or
depressed, whether we he ignorant or fu ll of know-
*A fedge. Religion always gives and never takes,
gfl Religion *embellishes -the noblest- o f -characters;
ifetherefore it should be an essential element in our
>
| daily *;life* the- fundam ental -basis o f our being.
Whatever we th ink, whatever we do, it should have
« the benediction of. religion.
All over the world, but especially;, in India, although
i people may attend Church ^ P u& every -d ^ ^ th e
worship, the devotion they feel then, Js, not applied
with intelligence and common sense tp th e tin o g s o f
daily bf®* * ^ - ‘1
Civilisation does not consist of big actions
once; it consists in continuous effort day aftsrj^
in little things perfectly done which produce
flower of civilisation. We, in India, who have kn<3
a little more, studied and thought a littldmore, m3 1
make tremendous efforts to produce this flow
er, ^
create a magnificent morality, to have once a
g
a
in
a great and mighty civilisation.
/
fe
r
1/
I
0
To achieve this, we ought to look upon religion,
especially in India, as a unifying force. There arehen
so many different castes, so many different races,s
o
many different temperaments and religious csr|jj
monies; religion should have the definite object o
f
unifying them all.
Whenever we worship we should have in mind tin
thought of India as a whole, and its people as one
in spite of all the differences that exist. Through
India we ought to send out spiritual force to the
whole world, because India always has been a
n
d
always will be the spiritual centre of the world. G
o
back to the great Rishis as They sat in meditation
on the banks of the Ganges, They thought of India
as one: its rivers, its trees, its holy places. If in our
worship each person is merely thinking of his own II
evolution, we shall fail. We must regard ourselves as y
creative forces making for unity. As in the time of
your forefathers, meditate on the unity of India and
the One Life which pervades it. Then it will becom
e
real and wonderful to you. You, who are Theoso-1
phists or who belong to other movements which all
have the same tendency towards unity, must realise
what that unity really means. You must feel your*
selves one with everything and everybody.
We can all feel one with our Guru or with the altan
10
m i worship most of our life . B ut we have to
lise
in the coolie, in the
flS .it is the sam sjife, that there are the
feaiise y& . .
m | j feelings in the pariah
ant ' - ;s
- , J i \ |§
| am very proud of being a Brahm in because I
P -fbelievethat it does carry w ith it a certain refinem ent,
1
acertain culture; but th a t pride does not make met
want to dominate* It only makes me more eager to
spread those qualities, th a t a ll may share them .
Everypariah, every scavenger, should have a part in
the beauty and the happiness o f life . T hat is the
spiritual idea of aristocracy which Manu laid down
o
for us. We must find ■unity through, division and
onlythrough religion tsah we worship tru ly the One
Lie.
What we, in India, must particularly keep in mind is
that the reform ation we w ant to bring about must
not, as in Europe and in Western countries, be based
upon political or social principles. The reform ation
we want to bring about in India m ust have a
& spiritual and a religious ideal as its foundation. It
11mus* he based on the e th S ^a n d principles of
v |Hinduism.
ii jWe cannot here in India, as they do in other cbun-
ijfltrjes, carry out our reform s on purely economic or
fj social lines. We cannot afford torlhduigs in; reform s
ii which are brought about by sufferings which are
brought about by pain and the to rture of individuals.
We have to find another rway, and bring abput
£ reforms by d iffe re n t means, by another course, born
through religion, and based uppn ideals. And what-
1 ever we try to bring about, whether, in religion or.
philosophy, sh ou ld all be based upon the idea of
h a rm iessn ess.
ff reforms are to stand they must be based juppnJ
ideal. Revolution must begin from the top^and not
from below. Only in that way shall we avoj|
bloodshed and misery. If revolution comes through
the spontaneous sacrifice of those on the top, then
happiness w ill follow and the reforms will be of %
true type.
1
Hilt*
■
Iw
W*
■
A devotional attitude alone is not enough in thitj #
period of the world’s history. New ideas are beingput; |
forward, new plans are being developed, and w
e
who want to mould, who want to change, who want
to bring about a new condition, must have intelli-i
gence. If we have the fundamental desire tojjiave
the present conditions of India changed, or rather
to try to bring back the old ideals, we must 'first of
all develop a very keen mind, for without a mind,
w ithout intelligence, we can do nothing. We must
learn to distinguish; we must learn to sift; w
e
must learn to choose. In other words, we must learn
to discriminate. Through religion and religious
thought, we must develop a keen mind; we must
be real builders; we must cultivate understanding.
Emotions are the driving, power, likewise devotion
is the driving force which gives energy, but it is the
mind which plans, which thinks out, which foresees,
which comes to a definite conclusion. We must have
th a t mind, th at intelligence, th a t genius.
j£lf
Ip
if:
III
&i
I m
I I I
] M
| fe'
I
I do not th ink there is a greater quality in the world V
than th a t which we have in India — the capacity to j
follow. To follow is a Wonderful thing. It can be \
noble and m agnificent, but to follow intelligently^
means th a t you must understand w hat the leader
has seen, what the Master wants. If you can
12
liP
ll
jt becorties quite.easy to jo llo w .a n d to be also
Instructive. H B H H H H H H I I
area very civilised people; we are very sensitive;
W
e have certain standards.. B ut those, instead o f
keing real, instead-of being vita l, have, become
superstitions. There, is no i$aJ, thought behind our
^standards. We are follow ing them because our fore­
fathers, our grandfathers:, followed them . It is only
whenthere is.thougbt behind •QU'P-dctjons th a t we can
^ ,.^Ido something great, th a t we can create something'
^ \R e w ,a n d that-js where thoseof us tyho have studied
B d p little more, who are &■little more intelligent, can’
pj*nd must understand and create.
*^e of greater knowledge, we should
L| create a new world, ^ new^fprtn th ^ shall have in
Hb EKBm meaning, greater - reality and greater
strength.
Thafjs the *,ele o f the f$harata Samaj ^ th at is the:
dtrty of those who belong.to :it,* o f those who feel
real. enthusiasm about It, . They must- become
themselves examples and see th a t certain changes
are brought af>out ijn India;
I shall go as fa r as l oan into details concerning these
Ganges, but le t^me^say.;a t the o u tle t th a t-it would
very unfortunate if you. get h u rt by any plain
| speaking. I have: bad many -open. talfe4 -mauiy plain
words from many people; l have always welcomed
them because: .theyi!fJhowed. th at there w ere-still
little crooked things that; 1must take, away from my
character^ I B
me KYou a re ^ ^ in g a mistake in that direction” ,
* An ^ and religious
.reform ;in ftw#®-
I always pay attention when I think they a r d f l
but their criticism does not disturb me if whattfei
say is not true. I w ant all of you to look at
the same way.
We must produce wonders in India, but in order
do this you must not let your superstitions stands]
the way and feel that those people who speak here
are not real Hindus, that they are Europeanise^
because they eat with spoons, for instance. We must
have an open mind. Surely I am as much of!a Hindu
as any of you here. I cannot become a non-Hin<ft|
because I eat with a spoon, or put on European dress
when I go abroad. Those things are superficial
things and one must not judge merely by the out­
ward conditions of life.
That is just what we have been doing; we tfiink w
e
are real Brahmins because we have the plantain
leaf, put of which we eat, turned in a particular
direction. We think we are real Brahmins because
we perform our Puja and do not eat onions. B
y
eating an onion you do not become less of a Brahmin
or less noble, but that is what We have| conSe to
believe. We consider ourselves so deeply spiritual,
that we see no need for change.
The religion of Hinduism is very old — many; many
centuries old — and during that time it has gathered
many accretions; many superstitions have grown up;
many useless customs have developed. We have to
discard, to eliminate; to destroy,- if necessary, those
i
1
f
p
|
m
H
E
fidtil
s
a
d
t
tfthe
superstitions, changing our beliefs into?2living
flowers.
I am very proud and happyjto^being±&i In d ia J H
because the advantages areij tremendous and j
supreme, if you can understand.thew drfririlfflM
14
L sense. But if I should w ant a new body, 1 often
feeder if 1would be born here again, because th e
* ! ity which we once had in our w orship, in our
■founding^ in our tffees,, irt\ our beauty; has
Home superstition; and, although w e consider
■Reives a very religious, people, we are irre lig io u s
MJd superstitious in our hearts.
Ben though we attend the Tem ple,p ra ctically every
H y, our religion has in £fact become unreal, some-
K g to which we have to subm it. One can see th a t
9 p us religion, instead of being a d rivin g force, a
creative and living force, has become a. superstition
■Rich subjugates and kills. And if we keep it a mere.
H itter of form, we shall n o t build India, we shall
H t bring her back to w hat she used to be, the glory
.so im portant for. a ll o f us, whatever
-iwe are, whether Hindus or C hristians, always to
;®ok behind the outward form , behind the gorgeous
Robes or the simple* cloth. We m ust find the re a lity
■behind the outward show. In other .words,.we m ust
I fend the God we are all worshippings we m ust all
I pad the Path we ta lk about. We m ust have a great
Realisation of the God we worship. Then a ll form s
■will take a secondary place because we then shall
| have seen the Reality, the Beauty, and the- Glory
■of the One Perfect Being.
Ill
1
m f .r
M B B f c . v j
Our principal duty is to feel the new life s tirriJ L ftv
India, and to bring about new ideals of re fo ri!® /^
religion, in social customs, in politics. Only we
do it with true dignity, in the real spirit of lnJ K s%
,
and of Hinduism, always remembering that wemuSy^r
make religion our Light, our Guide, our potent*^
Power, jK #
The greatest and most difficult problem that c o ® ^
fronts us at the present stage is the idea thatj^EN
translating religion into ordinary physical thing**!
we shall materialise it too much. We think retigiJ Lfri0
*
1
1
can only act on the spiritual plane. We think
religion has its sway on the ideas of the spirituJfcere
planes only. But it seems to me that if we cann^feryt
translate religion into practical use we shall n°®ane'
become spiritual, for if we are not perfect on ttijjjorta
physical plane, having the full understanding of iBpul
we are not really spiritual. Still
We are on the physical plane for a definite purpos^fco*
not merely, to subjugate matter but to create an® |
produce material beauty, to realise spirituality oi#w
the physical plane; hence there must be a constan*j
effort, a constant urge to. change and mould ouale
surroundings according to -spiritual ideals.
In the West, they begin everything from the lowesfl
rung of the ladder of life which is the physical. Wefl
in India have spent our life and our whole irpagina®
tion on the spiritual plane without attempting to l
materialise (in the right sense of the word) our!
spirituality. Our ideals remain ideals; we do not]
16
:/s
N 1
<
X
|,.1
sic
a
l
'in
k
.
1
1Wk
C
J
lIllll
s
h
a
ll
s
to
n
in
g
o
fu
them concretely, transforming them into
""Tower, real force.
"“ have had a tremendous privilege in having the
JLern nations at our door. They have brought us
scientific knowledge of matter, precision, exact
observation, together with tidiness on the physical
, cleanliness, sanitation. They have forced our
doorsopen, in an attempt to introduce their ideas.
I|nwhat way have we profited? How much have we
learned from the West? Have we altered? Have our
customs of untidiness, our habits of slovenliness, of
slothfulness been changed? Have we translated our
religion, our beliefs, into practical actions? We have
not! We are the same old Hindus living in the old
I fashion, even though there is a new Dawn coming,
e
v
e
nthough there are new doors being opened every­
w
here in the world. We have had, as you can see in
everything, a negative idea of reform on the physical
plane; we have neglected it and forgotten its im­
portance while we have thrown ourselve? .heart and
so
u
l into the effort to conquer the spiritual world.
I think we may say that in India, we have under­
stood the spiritual world and its value. In India you
will always find many who are ready to sacrifice
everything in order to conquer the spiritual world,
but in striving to conquer it, they have forgotten the
existence, the importance of the physical world. It is
f essential that you should understand that to attain
J to the truly spiritual, you must conquer your
yj material nature first.
t In the West they have put the emphasis on the
> material plane; they have thought first of acquiring
Physical com fort and the right physical environment;
the spiritual development has been put aside. In
17
jo
u
r
r i
m
India, on the contrary, we have tried to
understand s p iritu a lity and the rules and ra j
m ents o f the sp iritu a l w orld, but we have n o t!
our knowledge to the physical world. What U
use o f having a beautiful tree unless it gives sW
to those who s it under it, unless it produces beau!
flow ers and luscious fru it? It m ight as well be dJ
The very idea of s p iritu a lity is not merely mea
tio n , not m erely conquering the spiritual world, ft]
the application o f sp iritu a l principles to the men!
the em otional, the physical worlds.
To me, the first essential for a spiritual person!
cleanliness, truly religious cleanliness — cleanlinj
that is born of religion and religious ideas. Above a|
we must realise that unless we are clean, we caru^
be really religious; we cannot be spiritual unless
are absolutely and scrupulously clean.
For us Hindus, cleanliness is an aspect of religk
and our bath is a religious ceremony. But is ■
performed with the idea of physical purity? Is i|
really a cleansing bath?
We should, when we wash, clean our bodies not onli
magnetically but physically as well — not mereljj
pour water on ourselves.
I think for most people in India, bathing is merely aj
superstition. How can we be clean when we have
not washed every part of the body thoroughly?
You cannot be clean if you leave one part of your
body dirty. If you wash thoroughly your arms anc
your hands, and leave the nails dirty, your hands an
not perfectly clean.
N ail., hair, ears, feet, the w hole body m u st h „ .1
before you can call yo urself clean * * b C,ea
A fU r the bath we generally p u t on clean clothe
\ \ \ \
n £ H L
% v i m
n m
1 „ften happens W you pu^on clean clotfces
lit . - ■ J _4
-Ua liioicf UAII l/AAn
• M i
v s ^ i u
F orTtop! and below or round the waist you keep
dirty doth, probabiy because it does not show.
S i
. m m 1
&
3|
c
V %
remember once visiting a temple at Conjeeveram.
one.of the tanks a priest ,was taking his bath,
Itfhen he came out he put on a clean dhoti, but kept
Vj^.istill the dirty cloth which he had around his loins.
jJHknew he was going-to function as. a priest in the
■ITemple, and I was much surprised to see him per-
f ifectiy contented to keep, th a t d irty cloth under the
^felean dhoti. The. tp ajo rity of people do not seem to
Realise that if they ^weat a n y spiled clothes they
Jcannot be really clean, and yet they consider them-
pelves Brahmins and are afraid tp come near the
Ipariah. They g # |p the Temple ,and feel holy :and
[perfectly clean*
1
1should i*ke tp. ^iye. s till another instance: most of
H was^ your hair every m orning and afterwards
oil it, using cocoanut oil which is often rancid. When
about a thousand people are gathered together who
all use rancid oil on th e ir hair^Jyou can imagine the
Fresult.
One o th e r^h in g has surprised me. We are very
careful not to touch anything after we have put bur
hands to our m ouths while eating. But how often
we seen the?' very, highest Brahmin ta^e his
) ffM an £ a v t r a m * and.blow ,his nose w ith j£ and
,( keep it over hiaijshoulder, or women taka a Bit o f
arm
stt-j ^ e|r sat.j ancj >vipe th e ir nose w ith it.
handsM
M ^ f
.$ thr0Ugh sheer lack of interest in life that we
1 fcave |0s t a ll the refinem ents which reially make #
b e d s it
rb
o
d
ie
s
00t j
ngismelJ
hen w
eimm
stott**.' * A
nation perfect; yet they are just as importJ
m eetings or attending prayers or worship or rJ
or m editating, because they show the character
the person.
W e m ust change our slovenliness if we want to
really religious and real disciples of the great R
ishj
Clothes are of no value in themselves; it is w
h
they represent that matters. Clothes show f
m ental condition of the individual. If they a
i
untidy or soiled, it means that the individual do
not take trouble over himself, over his surroundin
and over the little details of life that are of im
poi
ance. Look at the difference between a man whl
dresses in a slovenly fashion and a man who dressJ
well. We have carried that slovenliness to such I
degree in India that it has become appalling lusi
the word intentionally! We have no sense of fitness
or of proportion and yet — where it has not been
spoiled — there is a natural dignity to be found in
j
India. The coolie in India has much more dignity
than the working man in Europe. We ought toi
encourage dignity because beautiful action is the
expression of life. If you have not a sense of the
beautiful you are not spiritual.
How often have I seen a man come to a meeting with
a dhoti and a towel on his shoulder, or else a dhoti
and a shirt above. We should be harmonious in our
dress. If we are Hindus let us be Hindus thoroughly*
If we want to be Swadeshi, let us be Swadeshi
thoroughly. Do not put on English clothes one day
and Indian clothes the next, nor mix the two. Remem-
b«r that the whole structure of Indian life is based
on simplicity. We are bad copies of the West and
now we are neither Hindu nor really Wester
/
V
/
4
1 that we should not wear sandals even
* out in the Streep beoMjgyge should
b u t is i t n o t
m\Sl
\ WT«ueh"teathef- InU p T ' aSree’
r | „ touch leather fhsffl |® Walk in tiie filth of
*»®Vp»T*w«t»? If you go down to Madras you w ill see
E^hmins and other castes* who would Consider th a t
th
e
y y^re defiled if they approached those o r a
W r caste»walking barefoot:those, filth y Streets
withoutthe leait hesitation*
O
urideasof caste arefso absurd th a t they Haverto'be
broken— not the real ideals, but the superstitions
that have grown up airound the ideals^th e super-
Fstitionsto which w^clirig*:;-? ,
If we wish to rebuild Ihdiav: wo,o|^iv.only do it by
paying attention to the m inutest details. Details do
matter, because theyrnake fd rth e refinement of life,
fortiie creation ;c^a civilisa tio p ,^e t mosfe.of'us have
not been trained to pay^attention to these details
fo tijand that is why we Want the Bharata Samay to ~
emphasisethem.
Go into any Indian h o u ^ ^ apartment and you w ill
find general scjiialor,. unsanitary^ conditions, untidi-
swarms of flieSQ-l often w o n d e rif a Master
wereto cometp o r^ % tihibse houseswhat Be would
think-.
W
e ail want the Mastere,±63eome arid lift\is o u to f
the rut of mediocrity, tOFshow us a different beauty*
to give us a new conception o fi!fe | laid yet we do
not make the least e ffo rt to alter"the circumstances
around us. V^ecalt iv ^ ^ p ^ c p m e pupils, and tread
the Path &nd lead the worship and rdforni the world.
We cannot do earnefi^ desire
to reform ourselves firs t
In India, * * * * * ? ¥ “
21
heat —
various
seems
other
to be ii
in great favour. Chillies
strong spices act as stimulants
enable one to eat more in a hot climate than
ii
/
w ould otherw ise do.
We fin d the same taste fo r highly seasoned disJ|
in M exico, South Am erica and some parts of Spafl
b u t I have been told th a t chillies, as food, were nevA
used in ancient India; red chillies were brought hen
by th e Portuguese, and the word "ch illi” comesfro®
Spain. T his convinces me th at chillies are
fo re ig n to our nature.
The eating o f hot food is bad, medically and spirl
tu a lly , because it stim ulates the body on the oneside!
and d ulls sensitiveness and deadens the nerves oil
the other. It has the same effect, though perhapsi i
a less b ru ta l fo rm , as the eating of animal mattei
W hen people eat very hot food, the body ceases t i
respond to noble ideas and happenings; a genera
W hat we w an t is a body th a t can respond quickly
th a t has s u ffic ie n t nourishm ent to carry out the will]
o f the tru e self. It should be a machine that can runj
p erfectly w ith the dynam o o f the s p irit behind it, and
we m ust n o t stim ulate it unnecessarily with hot
food.
I w ould stro n g ly urge th a t you should try cutting
down the seasoning o f food to a m inim um and you j
w ill feel, I am sure, a considerable difference both
in lightness o f body and clearness o f brain.
You m ust have noticed th a t young .children all
through India, even in some o f th e very best families,
have enorm ous stom achs and very, very th in arms
and legs. T h a t comes fro m e ating rtce i n |aree
q ua ntitie s; it m erely bloats them o u t # th p u t
22
64 >
K S k S m to the b
od
y- 1 gives rep,etion
**A M , "
d
r
i
v
i
n
gs
tamina and energy,
k \ m & d0 °
of repletion that every animal and some
W r Z t i t f i$notquitesPirituaInoris 1 refined»
V o / # ^ especially, gives that sense of repletion
* r d of the dynamic energy that we ought to
wouid be much better to eat less rice and
H p K * V
egetables and other energising food. The boys
H ftm L girls would then grow strong.
West they think that vegetarians have not the
Length and endurance of meat-eaters, but many
Lperiments have been made and various forms of
Lgetarianism hav.e been tried on young people, and
proved to be very successful. Some of the greatest
{Athletes are vegetarians. It is possible for vegeta­
riansto have very strong, very vigorous bodies, but
pey must supply the right kind of food to the body,
tggs we do not eat and it is right that we should
bot, but they do contain proteins and we ought to
finda substitute for eggs. It is our duty towards the
bodyto give it a carefully balanced diet. It is the lack
offoodand right nourishment that produces anaemic
thought and emotions, and which leads to the
f deterioration of the body,
f Because we are neglectful, we let our children grow
fog! upwithout giving them the proper food, nor do they,
'o
nI in other ways, receive the care and attention that
thl all children should have.
f You w ill see here, at Adyar, little girls carrying a
11 child on their hip; you w ill see children made to
f carry burdens too heavy for them. This should not
I be tolerated and yet we do nothing to prevent it We
> want our children to be healthy and vigorous;
instead, we are ruining their bodies by overstraining
[ and underfeeding them. ;
Do you know that the average length of lif •
is between twenty-three and twenty-fiv^ 'n
<
J
while in New Zealand it is over sixty?
We want to build a strong race for future
tions; but we shall achieve it only by
extH
physical care in every home and every school^^P
the Hutv of naron+s and tnanhnrs to u
/atnU 1
. A
# 1 *
the duty of parents and teachers to watch the
,r
being of the children in order that they may^H
without care or worry. T h e y must be happy. V i
must fight and struggle for them to assure
happiness.
We want to bring about reformation in India aloiL
every line. We must become vital flames in ortfl
that other lamps may be lighted at our torch. wl
must energise the worldf because we have understofl
with creative devotion. Because we have felt realm
we must act nobly. We must, as a new body, creata
new ideas; we must introduce new reforms whiJ
shall shatter the old superstitions. We must use
intelligence while we destroy, so that there may b
e
]
a new flow of life.
We must set aside all the old forms, all the oil
thoughts, and begin a new day. I am sure that a new
Day is beginning all over the world if you coula
only see it; a new Dawn is coming if you could bnljl
feel it. The Spring is here and the trees are putting
forth fresh buds and blossoms, and tender leaves.]
The Spring is coming with a new glory that shall
ennoble the world.
v,'
ic"
V vi®
E m *
I n V«
P *
fheo*0
gig*
Urnn
o
1
24
IV
, (L O
t
S\ \
v S'.
O
m\
% X
'*>S
.A
the4
fann
conHi
t realise that spirituality and religion, as. I
f* so often, do not consist merely in the
Jon of the form, but in the recognition of the
Ka^ental truth that ,ieS behind the form’ How"
J r much intelligence and devotion we may have,
|E |ess we carry out our ceremonies with under­
standing, we are likely to become mere gramo-
phones repeating words without proper feeling,
Lithout proper determination, without proper
Ireation.
Instead, we must see what lies behind the words,
fondout the inner meaning, through our knowledge
of Theosophy, and be fully aware that because we
fare Theosophists we have a definite work to achieve,
adefinite responsibility towards India,
pam not myself greatly inclined to ceremony, as you
know. I like to go to my goal directly; I like to reach
fthe summit by the quickest path without any inter­
mediary. That is my personal attitude of mind and
feeling. But there are naturally many thousands
who express themselves by ceremonial, to whom
ceremonial is the only path along the mountain.
The Bharata Samaj has decided that this particular
form of worship and the idea it expresses, shall
spread throughout India. It is here in Adyar, in this
Temple, that we are creating the form, and we must
be diligent and exceedingly careful not to create
any unnecessary thoughts which shall lead to super­
stition, any unnecessary gestures, any unnecessary
methods that shall eventually become superstitions.
We must be direct and simple. We must not be carried
/
25
away
We m ust
f f
I j9
|by chants, or mere devotional 9^53
^ ^ W e r s ta n d really and not only ]
ficially, the m eaning of all the Sanskrit shlow
order to grasp th e ir real significance.
As you know , the GayatrT is one of the most P
0
d
ful M antras in S anskrit, and we — both the®
and the congregation — should repeat it t o f l
Only bear in m ind w hat the Mantra means. It®
that by m editating on th a t glorious, wonderful!
peaceful subject, the great God, the Essence!
God behind the Sun, He will carry us to the h fl
where our intuition, our noble side, shalljlj
awakened.
It is very simple, but, if each one of us puts his mi!
into it and concentrates on it, we shall exert atr|
mendous influence.
That Mantra has been repeated by thousands, ■
millions, for so many centuries; by some with un<fl
standing, by some with the desire to reach fl
highest, and by others automatically. Now we hal
to do it consciously, with mental effort, with ffl
understanding of what it means. You must bear in
mind that the essence of this ceremony is perfe<!
peace, perfect harmony, and that we ought to sen!
out on India that perfect peace and beneficence —
1
the peace that comes through knowledge, through
virility and through vigor, and not through
negative qualities; and we can do so if we concen-J
trate on this when we repeat the Gayatri.
Remember that we are giving a new meaning, a new'
explanation to an old form. The greater our under-
standing, the more help we shall be able to give to
Ind.a. I want to urge especially all Hindus who are
Theosophists and who have attended these
r.4
Meetings
26
m
to otiard against any -form, against any
« tion for both of them are unreal. You should
worship the lighted cloud but you should
US f^fpthe sun that lights the cloud.
, explain as briefly as f cart the general out-
^ what we do in the Temple, the fundamental
' n B rp °se our Puia’ j want to make sure that all of
S M realise that for us Hindus, the priest Is only
‘ primus i n t e r P a t e s first among th#
juals. In no sense is the priest different from any
|ne of us, he is no more than the leader and there
S
hould be no distinction between the congregation
pfidthe priest^ ^ ; - ;
[ewho are Brahm ins are a il priests,"but w hether we
Ifform as p rin ts or not, we are a ll equals and the
^'est is only a leader fo r the m om ent, a conductor
f t directs the m usic and nothing else. Hence it
Inessential, it is desirable, th a t a ll the people, a ll the
ftgregation, every individual should concentrate,
should throw him self into the w orship and n o t leave
Jt all to the priest.
where must be a continuous urge from the whole c o n ^l
gregation who m ust n ot be content m erely to listen
|° the priest. We should a ll m ake the same e ffo rt in
[the same direction and n ot leave' it to one or tw o
Individuals. We m ust n o t rem ain passive, but m ust
learn to concentrate on the cerem ony th a t is being
performed and th erefore it is im p orta nt th a t we
should understand its fu ll m eaning.
The firs t process is the p u rify in g o f the~priestTThe
priest p u rifie s h im self firs t, then a fte r purification
he d istrib u te s to th e people ordinary w ater, n e t
magnetised. W ith th a t w a te r in your hand you oatt
on S urya. M anyu and the hosts o f Manyu to come
left
and purify you, to
A
* . t
purif> your word,,
your acts, your deeds, your thoughts,
IYou put yourself — your real self Z. int h f j
of im m ortality and ask Surya, the Sun, to J
immense power to purify you, and with th J
drink the drop of water — merely as a symbol
T hat is the firs t point to remember. As you*
the water you purify your body on the three p
*
and call on Surya to come with His immense pj
in order th a t your whole nature may becomep j
and beautiful and p u re .|
As you know, passions of the ordinary animal tjj
consist merely in the enjoyment of the act}
whereas in the more evolved human beingthereisl
anticipation, the process itself and the satisfacfl
afterwards. When you drink this water you arepi}
fying those three aspects of passion: the thougj
the emotion and the act.
The next process is the invocation of the Devas.1
the ringing of the bell you ask them to drive a
w
a
jj
with deliberation and intention, all the evil spirr
all the undesirable nature spirits
After that, you begin the worship, having first buil
an invisible wall around the physical temple bl
repeating the Gayatrf. You worship on the m
ental
plane, on the emotional plane, as well as on tha
physical plane, so that the power shall act directly!
on those three planes.
Then you have the incensing, followed by a five­
fold call on the Gods. You ask Indra to come and1
give you the power of right leadership, to enable you
to lead people along the right path, to make you a
true disciple; a true disciple is a true leader. Then
you ask Soma for joyfulness, happiness, delight;
V
f
y
o
' *
28
i s N 'v
\ V \
°n
r tn
e rig
h
t
itelity
sk varuna for the power of right percep-
* mental point of view, so that your
shall always be pure and unbiassed; Then
ask Yama, the Lord of Karma, to remove all
Edts. to purify you of all your karma; and
r j |y you ask Surya, the Sun, to give you energy
vitality.
repeating afterwards the Gayatri you assimilate
| t0the physical plane and physical body those five
tomendous qualities: energy, the power to arrest
^ItBrma, joyfulness, clearness of perception and right
Sth w ad
ersh
ip
^ %his-ends the first part of the ceremony.
[youbegin the second part with the worship of Agni.
‘H
eisthe Fire God, and you describe Him as having
adefinite form, a definite shape. He is the Eternal
[Being, He is everywhere. He is first to be born in the
world, and He is born with every birth, and He will
b
eborn in the future. Though He is immanent in
all things, you ask Him to come and embody Himself
fin that fire, and He i s in that fire.
W
hen you throw the small tw ig into the fire you
symbolically throw yourself with it. It is a symbol:
every particle of you goes with that twig into the
fire and you get purified, you become one with Agni,
one with the Eternal God. Three times you do it,
and then you ask Agni to lead you along the right
Path, the Path of spirituality, the Path which leads
[ to enlightenment; you ask Him to disentangle the
web of life, to help you to struggle against your
evil nature.
Agni — only a symbol again — is unwinking, ever-
watching, all-knowing. We must conform to His laws,
and thus shall we be fu ll of fresh energy and glory,
the D
e
v
%
■
odriveif,
9 evil s
p
ir
fc
g firstbij
tem
pleh
i
tie m
e
n
ta
l,
is o
ntlx
tdii
and no distress of mind shall touch us far or no*, i
main point to bear in mind here is the desireto M
the Path, and you ask Agni to come and h e lp l
You must believe what you repeat. He does W
and He h a s concentrated Himself in that fire l
the ashes that are distributed over the various
of the body should instil into you the desire to ea
the Path. You ought to take the ash on the thf
finger of the right hand (which is supposed to b
<
|
connected with the heart); you take it w ith]
thought that you desire to tread the Path,
struggle against all evil things. You must first tod
the chakram at the top of the head, then the fo|
head between the eyebrows, then the centre
the throat, then the solar plexus, then
heart, then the left shoulder and finally the rid
shoulder; you will notice that it forms a perff
cross. Those are centres in the body, chakrail
(force-centres) that can be awakened if you doji^
properly. And in awakening them, you acquire th^
knowledge of the higher worlds. You should all d
ti
it and not only the people on the M a n d a p a m . l
Then you take water. Fire is the symbol of the
physical, water represents the emotions. You elimil
nate all impurity from the water by asserting thal
the water is the source of delight, the source of
energy, the source of great visions and inspiration,
and finally you say. "Let the water which is there
give me Knowledge.” Then you assert that the water
Is immortality, the water is power, the water is the
secret harmonies of the world, the water is the
essence of all ceremonies, and last you assert thai
* Dais in front of the shrine.
30
!.\\
*
»
r is H jB B W B M y
<
>
« «•» <« V
aruna-
pV of the W ater Kingdom, the world of
ie tions. Then you s a y again, "W e break Thy laws
^.ry day. we offend the Deva Kingdom.” And yot»
\ W
"Please do not be angry w ith us. We sin and
m ' ignorant; forgive us, H Q desire to be
l,y beloved.” *You send fo rth those hosts of Varuna
ito the four comers of the earth; and in doing so.
|5| pu must put will behind it. You must help to clean
^ be whole-^wprld.
I, lext you come to the Light,, which represents the
Kind. Again you worship theJSun. Burning camphor,
yousay: "By leaving the darkness of the world and
^ || opntenipleting on the Sun which is?represented by
^ a lta r, we reach th e real Light, the
aJ glory behind the veil, the e ss^ce 61 all things.” You
$ cpscnbethat L ig h t:||H e sees the universe, He is the
?
ace ancl o f a ll the gods in the w orld
-o f, M itra, Varuna, Agni, and He is
J
!f| fYerY being, animate^ and inanimate.” Thus you
'2: valisethat the Sun is the eissence,-the representative
•a
s of the Logos^yand by contemplating on the physical
i\ sun you g o t 4n touch w ith th ^ ^ S irit behind the sun,
e
ft?pfter that you assent:<W
1 am the Light, I am Brah*
%plan, I am i,’! T h is is no negative quality or desire*
You havecalled th S ^u n through th e i^ i^ a n d y o u
go back to the Su.n- And you describe the immanent
and transcendent God- He. characterises.the 'First
Jfcay; He is th e Lord of the Worlds the thousand
Jheaded^urushayvithout limipHe. exfefeeverywhere,
| above and below; there is no measuring Him.; You
% eak o f Hiro -ag tbe- Three-|yed, the. greatest-of
1r>.Ac the H H H H B li
I Then com” -«*• ««
H K r ' 31
all should concentrate on the Second Aspect,,
Second Ray, the Lord Maitreya and the Lord B
udi
You say: " Y o u are everything, You are in ail ft
ties of the heart in the world.” Then you take]
w ater which has been purified and you purif]
again by repeating the Gayatrf. You w i l l that]
Sun should come and concentrate Himself in tl
w ater, after which you break the thought-form;!
w ater is then distributed and what it contains g
<
right through the world.
Finally the priest gives the blessing. He says: "S ij
we have approached You through the sacrifice, m
w e liv e o n e h u n d r e d y e a r s w it h th e Masters ai
E t e r n a l O n e s . M a y t h e r e b e n o unhappiness of ai
k in d , w h e t h e r t o t h e lit t le a n im a ls , th e big anima
o r t h e h u m a n s ; m a y t h e r e b e p e rfe c t beauty, perfei
h a p p in e s s , p e r f e c t jo y a ll th ro u g h the world.
H e r e e n d s t h e w o rs h ip .
A s y o u h a v e s e e n , th e e s s e n tia l purpose of all cen
m o n y is t o c o lle c t t h e s p ir itu a l fo rce ex is tin g aroun
u s , a n d d is tr ib u te i t to th e w o rld a t large. Th
w o rs h ip p e r , a fte r p u r ific a tio n , c o lle c ts th e fore
e m b o d ie s i t in o n e special co n s tru c tio n , in a though!
fo r m ,' b re a k s t h a t t h o u g h t -fo r m , a n d sends it oii
to th e
I f w e s u ffic ie n tly c o n c e n tr a te o n w h a t w e are doinj
a n d re a lis e w h a t Is e x p e c te d o f u s, w e shall naturall;
a c q u ire g r e a t p o w e r. T h e S a n s k r it w o rd s themselvei
h a v e p o w e r, a n d w ith in te llig e n t cooperation, we cal
p ro d u c e th e - desired e ffe c t; t h a t is* ju s t w hat w
<
sh o u ld a ll d o a t o u r w o rsh ip .: •
We m ast n o t'repeat -
l
i
k
e
parrots, but use our intelli.
gence and emotion w ell as the physical form
m a k in g a perfect cpm
bfnation ^f.the threer6hus™
e
0 f
to construct the thought-form on the three
^ themental; emSionaf and physical,
realisethe symbolism: of it, the utter direct­
ion
of it, then you see the^^aiity that lies behind
Sworship, you sg^tha^tweare all priests, though
priests may better than others, Vi/e are
Rods, though we are all human beingig We are
I theessence of the beautiful and the glory of life.
V
character, real nobility of vision, and the great
of our standards.
achieve that, our physical body must be perfectjaA',
well as the emotions and the mind.
We must conquer the world, beautify the world anv*1
,
get all the experience of the world, and then we
throw aside all the trivial things of the world.
must perfect every little thing around us, every littiyiv
thought and feeling and action. We must be c
o
iM k
stantly on the watch lest slovenliness creep intflpte
mind or action. It is the mind chiefly that has to biM
purified and made clean, the mind that has to bAe
made simple. Then we shall become fit to worship*!
truly, then we shall become of real use to theA
Masters, to the Devas, to the Lord.
The impression, nowadays, is that you become a *
Rishi, a Sannyasi, when you have nothing better*
to do. When you have no capacities, no power ton
struggle, when you give in physically, emotionally,*
mentally, then you become a Sannyasi. But we w antl
*v v i a i, io r w
m*. the true Sannyasi is the true aristocrat The
position in the world, the outside garb, these do not
34
to establish a new type of spiritual aristocrat for to
V \ '
C \ V :
\
f. ^hat
should
does matter is th at your mind, your
have the true instincts of tho
^ -fuIly the idea of spiritual aristocracy, we
have well-trained minds — orderly, intelligent
and not mere devotion* though it has its
m
* 1
n
instance, we must have realised by now th at in
der to perform the Puja rightly, quite definite
ntal exertion on our part is needed. We must con-
ntrate more and more if we Want to produce a
^finite form.
giving our devotion* in pouring ourselves out in
p
rsh
ip
, it is not only necessary to give ourselves
titirely, but we must also give intelligently. It is no
|oodgiving devotion w ithout thought behind it; any
ierson may give impulsively* but the person Who
gives intelligently *— who has suffered* Who has
striven* and then gives —* is Of greater value.
®ur devotion should be tinged and guided by our
intellect so that we, in giving* can create and not
|nly receive;
W
eall want the Truth* but we must struggle to find
it and not merely sit and w ait fo r authoritative state­
ments. Unless we can th ink fo r Ourselves We shall
never create, we shall never be independent* we shall
3 never become the leaders th at We ought to be in
India. Neither shall We find the Truth* I know this
has been said over and over and Over again* every,
sacred book* every teacher has said it that
Truth must be found fo r Oneself* th at the Creation
of perfection in thought and feeling must be born
in ourselves* * ^
We Who have learned to read and to meditate, have
35
n o t y e t re a lise d th a t th e T ru th is w ithin ours«J
a n d n o t o u ts id e o urselves. We shall certainly*
a lth o u g h w e have a ll fe lt th e inner authority,9
w a it fo r s u p e rfic ia l a u th o rity . L et us always renfl
h e r t h a t a ll a u th o r ity is su p e rficia l unless it is *
in h e r a u th o rity .
W e m u s t develop in itia tiv e . We m ust not w a i t *
sp o o n -fe d d a y a fte r day, fo r th a t is the g re a te s t*
in In d ia . W e m u s t develop w ill-p o w e r and then i s *
o u t on a lin e o f o u r o w n ; we m ust be independefH
in c re a tio n , and fin d b e a u ty fo r ourselves. A n d *
B h a ra ta S a m a j, o r a n y o th e r sp iritua l organisation
e x is ts o n ly fo r th a t purpose and fo r no other.
I f th e B h a ra ta S a m a j w a n ts to fu lfil a new roleB
In d ia n life* it m u s t fu lfil th a t new role in eveq
d e p a rtm e n t o f life . I t m u s t be vital, enthusiast*
fo rc e fu l in its a c tiv ity th ro u g h o u t India. It mus^ta
a n ew vessel in to w h ic h th e new life can flow — yoa
m u s t be a w are th a t n ew life is com ing all over th|
w o rld :igS | fo r if it c a n n o t provide the new vehidq
som e o th e r o rg a n isa tio n w ill sp ring up and succe*
w here it fa ile d.
1 have n o t y e t join ed th e B h ara ta Samaj mysei
a lth o u g h th e y k in d ly le t me conduct the ceremonj
here. I am w a itin g to jo in t ill I am sure th at then
is no likeliho od o f its n a rro w in g down m y ideas of
life . I do n o t w a n t to belong to it, if it means that I
m ust- ju s t conform , if it m eans ju s t going back td
th e old ideas o f life* to the old superstitions.
I t is th e d u ty o f a new body to produce, to instil intJ
H induism new reform s along religious lines.
I believe th a t th is B harata Sam aj has a wonderful
fu tu re . I do n o t say th is because someone else has
to ld me, because some great understanding has
x ;i
r
\
v \
' i s
s>
V
• v
> 1 1
°le ,v
j jt to me; I say
has a natural beauty, a possibility of be­
like the lotus, the flower of India. But to
\his, we have to create new developments, to
J7ate the spiritual life.
cannot lead to progress. Progress
K
l/ov*.
W
vete
d
e
u
ce
a
sremo/i/f
it then
icktel
lin
te
l
h
a
sI
fia $ l
1 sav it because the Bharatal
here' ------------
jn&i
lise
n
O
V
Lservatism cannot lead to p ro g re ss^
Aes only when you have the constant desire to
■angeyour ideas, your life, and to a certain extent
Ee
nyour beliefs. And th at is where we have failed,
a
t is where our religion has failed. We all believe
at ours is the greatest religion, the greatest philo-
|pphy in the world. How have we used it, in what
ay have we brought about changes in India? Those
|f you who are Theosophists, who are supposed to
know better, what good have you done to your com-
iunity or to India?
Ind that is the question which each one of us has
lo ask of himself.
lit is not mere study, not mere meditation, but the
potion that follows the meditation and the study that
^natters. That is w hat we have to learn quickly, even
though some of us be old and some of us be young
— the quick reformation, the quick alteration of
[ideas and habits. If we can do it we shall see the
glory of being really powerful individuals in the
building up of India.
That is the duty of the Bharata Samaj: to create this
new, this immense power to build, not to stagnate
in the old superstitions and old ideas. That is the
duty of the Star, of the Theosophical Society and of
any other sim ilar organisation: really to create the
true discontentment out of which shall be born the
true contentm ent and the true happiness.
Believe me, if India does not open her doors to the
37
r«a l su n lig h t, the greatness of India will sliD
those closed doors and go to other countries J l
shall become a nation of unevolved, uncivil!
people, a people w ith o u t standards, a people w3
c u ltu re shall be lim ited, a people without a sen*,!
p ro p o rtio n or a sense o f greatness.
I t is th e d uty o f the Bharata Samaj to deal witfU
problem s. If it does not do so, something else U
accom plish its w ork.
W e have begun w ell, w ith a greater blessing iiM
m ost o f you realise. If we do not live up to thJ
blessing, it w ill pass on to others and we shall has
tost the greatest o f all opportunities in the worleil
If we do n ot reform and change, if we do not brij
su n lig h t into our religion, if we do not open all tm
w indow s to let in the light, then, woe to every IndJ
and to India! I
H ow rapidly we let the days go by! How little effci
we m ake to change and to create!
I w an t to put before you, very earnestly, the ine^
table tu rn th a t events are taking.
W e have had Dr. Besant w ith us now for over thirt]
five years; she has given us her teaching, her energ
her whole life. W hat is the result? How many re
w orkers, real follow ers, real initiators, real devote
are there upon whom she can rely? About tv
dozen a t the most. Now we have come to a st^
where those tw o dozen are not sufficient. We ne
three hundred dozen, nay more, and we do not wa
them in th irty years* tim e but today.
Perhaps you do not see the urgency or understa
the imperative necessity of immediate action.
The responsibility fo r our w ork, fo r the fulfilme
o f our ideals, is being placed on the shoulders
38
ty/j
N ' j
'Peo
! T
°Uti
Can one or even two dozen of us guide,
rotect three hundred millions of people?
(ilr r '
, many are there ready to come forward and
mselves and all their capacities, and say:
fi'a
ve acquired knowledge and I want to help
to live differently” ?
Lge of us who have received so much should go
f into the world with our arms full, ready to
ribute our bounty to the suffering and starving.
b
t i$ the life that matters, not the form however
Irfect, the life to live and make other people live
n
dbe happy, not merely coming here to worship,
ireceive and distribute blessings. That is good and
biouid be in its place, but we must go out and
Rpeaf, not to our own small circle but to the vast,
im
m
ense crowds.
wll over the world life is moving swiftly forward, but
fiere in India we are just slipping back. We must
Improve present-day conditions instead of continu-
png in the old ways. There is a new Dawn coming,
anewSunrise and a new Sunset, but it will not come'
a
swe expect it.
W
e are looking for some miracle to happen, but it
will appear as a thief in the night when we are not
watching, when we are asleep, not when we are
expecting miracles and thunderstorms. It-will come
by paths of which we know nothing. .
He is coming, not to preach to us who already know,
not to help us who are already helped in abundance,
but to those who are still longing, still searching,
still starving. And we in India do not realise this.
We are still the same people with the old ideas
unchanged, immovable either emotionally or
mentally*
,UP
tO
;
*» J
6w
o
r/^
j
R
o
tb
ri
in all
ry
ln
d
h
ee
ffo
i
mi
39
In d ia is supposed to be the most spiritual natiaJ
th e w orld and I believe it is the most spiritual
if w e do n o t distribute the flowers which are in
basket, w e shall fall, we shall be trodden down,
o th er nations, other races, will come along
bring new flow ers, and new baskets to carry
fresh flow ers. W e shall become mere savages,
relics of the past, and our civilisation will J
destroyed. India is like a beautiful vase, and if wj
are not careful it w ill be broken.
N o w is th e tim e to live, to understand the meanin
o f life , and no lon ge r to w a it, w ait, w a it
W e k n o w o u r land and all th a t we have been. wJ
k n o w to w h a t e x te n t o u r vision stretches. We kno\J
w here o u r w eakness and o u r strength and ourcapacs
tie s lie, and y e t w e are w a itin g fo r something tcj
tu rn us in to m en. W e are w a itin g fo r somebody on
some u nkn ow n pow er to th ro w us into the stream
x>f life so th a t w e can sw im to the other shore.
Do you th in k th a t such a pow er can ever come tcj
o u r aid? If we do n o t help ourselves, do you thinld
th a t someone else is g o in g to help us? If we wantj
to satisfy o u r hunger and th irs t, do you imaging
th a t someone else is g o in g to feed us?
Do you realise w h a t we have to do? Do you realise
how every th in g , liv in g and non-living, is crying out
fo r help, is searching, is Stretchings out its arms to
be fed, to be^.com forted, to be raised to the level
where it can see the same g lo rio us sunrise and sunset
th a t we have, seen?
We have to be n et mere follow ers, b u t leaders, and
lead weg m ust have strength, and vision and
W m m m B | | Bg i a i g w hich is th e sym bol of the
irt n f - hi « w
'-k
.--' _ ’ ISeaS? OT tn e
inner attitude, should supply us^vyfth th e
Inspiration,
je
$
iret longing, but we must not be content
},ere and worship and see the sunrise, or the
r > pass into the sunset 3nd vanish from our
y It w i l l vanish if we do not go outside and
gothers, help them to see the new sunrise, the
jrday* the new sunset.
^that is our dutyi
the star pu blish in g TRUST
EERDE OMMEN HOLLAND
This book has been designed by C. H. van dor Leeuw,
Rotterdam, and printed in the Antique iettertype by
Van Staai &. Co. at Rotterdam, Hoiiand, November. T9£7
