{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1927__estep___the_great_revelation____v1.pdf","mytitle":"The Great Revelation","mylang":"de"}
The Great Revelation
o r
The White Prophecy
By
Prof. W m. Instep, Dr. P. T.
The W hite Prophet and Divine H ealer
Vol. I.
W ashington
1927
.Et
Copyright, 1927
By WILLIAM ESTEP
©Cl A1010715
T H E L I B R A R Y P R E S S
W A S H I N G T O N . D . C .
DEC-6'27
INTRODUCTION
I have written this book to teach mankind
the secrets of inner and outer life and the
presence of the supreme being in the differ­
ent planes of life, for there is no plane of
intelligence void of that most sacred prin­
ciple whom many call “God.”
The world is in the depth of the abyss of
misunderstanding. Everyone, it seems, is
seeking God in a faraway place and yet the
very seeking is inspired by that divinity
which they seek, still in their blindness they
cry out, “Oh where is my God, my Heaven
and my Immortality.” Know ye not that
in that realm of Heaven, or unseen bliss,
there is no space, place, nor time.’ There­
fore, we begin our journey into the sphere
of inner man, and through introspection
and revelation, we find that which we seek.
I dedicate this book to those seekers of
the higher light whose path I desire to illum­
inate. I am now lifted up into spirit and
the voice commands me to write; for in
spirit there is truth and light and its rays
4 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
fill the soul of a prophet and give life eternal
unto a dying world.
Keep an open mind as you peruse this,
my message of the two worlds, i. e. matter
and spirit. ‘In matter I walk and talk with
men; in spirit I commune with the arch
angels. Thus I live in two worlds.'
THE AUTHOR.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 5
CHAPTER I
The Universal Laws of Creation
We will begin the discourse by invoking
the presence of the Almighty Universal
Master in the mind of the readers.
This presence is an intelligence of inner
life principle that knows neither gladness
nor sorrow, and experiences neither the
pangs of hunger nor thirst. It is He who
is the supreme pinnacle of wisdom, love and
light; and by His power and universal will,
He holds in His grip of fire, earth, air and
water, the movement, growth and decay of
an entire universe. Using His power and
Universal will, He transforms creatures like
a circular movement slowly revolving as a
disk, dispensing to mortals, mortal life and
force; and to immortals, eternal life and
consciousness.
Since His light is the eternal vehicle
thereof and His love the cause of such mani­
festation which we term life, He evolves
individuals of consciousness; namely, we
mortals of this earth plane. We receive His
life and potential power through the rays
6 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
of the sun and moon which are the father
and mother of physical life. The power of
His soul is dispensed to us in the form of a
ray of light which illuminates our body by
the presence of a soul. The combination of
these divine powers are arranged by Ilis
mighty law of friction whose source of
power is the solar system. We individuals
receive these powers in the form of influence
which is potential and moves around the
Throne of Grace, the Spiritual Sun, while
each Being is illuminated by a sunny ray.
We receive the combinations of these
beneficent energies in the form of conscious­
ness which evolves and grows, while in the
circular movement, since it is assisted by
germs of fife on the planes which are be­
neath the astral powers. These life forces
we govern by our impulse, causing them to
perform either good or bad and functioning
according to the expression of our conscious­
ness.
On the higher planes of life, such as the
fifth, sixth and seventh heavens, we are
assisted by Arch-Angels who conform to the
principles of His light and who are the
vehicles thereof. Therefore, we of the
THE WHITE PROPHECY 7
world of matter, continually move in a cir­
cular formation around the Throne of
Grace, transforming our lives by the recep­
tion or rejection of influence which either
builds or destroys our consciousness; for not
one iota of inperfection or ignorance can
exist in the presence of His divine light.
Those who absorb the rays of His light and
love, are eternal because of His presence
therein; and those who absorb the dark­
ness, destroy themselves because of the
absence of His light. Thus the drama of
life is being enacted in our midst, some
choosing light and finding continuous bliss,
and others choosing darkness and smould­
ering in the fires of its torment.
We receive His power to rule, or rather
transform, in the form of thought. Each
thought rules its life germs according to its
own influence and thus it becomes an entity
without embodiment. With such germs of
life as it gathers from the lower celestial
spheres, it builds its own form which acts
as the vehicle of its energies and produces
either a perfect or an imperfect likeness
according to the pressure of friction and
force used by its creator.
8 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
These mighty powers when at rest we
term kinetic which is always associated
with and effected by motion. This then
from contact with solar energy evolves
materialized ether which we call matter.
This matter is continually changing—the
impure decays while the pure build up our
earthly bodies.
The soul, the inner consciousness of the
ego, is not subject to this continuous move­
ment, and change, as its rate of vibration
corresponds to that of the spiritual sun: for
it is above the vibration of the sphere of the
fixed stars and all heavenly satélites since
it is a combination of the influence of the
'seven spirits of God' who influence the
creation of all intelligence. It manifests in
the world of matter through the rays of the
seven planets whose power governs the
birth and energizing of all physical bodies.
This soul is above the rulership of planets
and is designed for the reception of angels
and contacts with the Gods of nature. The
soul, in its divine rate of vibration, sits as a
king upon a throne knowing the past,
present and future, and directing the forces
of life according to its influence over the
THE WHITE PROPHECY 9
body. It teaches and warns the conscious­
ness of wrong doing, as its wisdom is the
wisdom of God, and its judgment, the judg­
ment of God; for even the soul is Supreme
Universal Intelligence. Therefore, the King­
dom of the Father is within; knock and the
“I am” will open it unto you, and the seeker
will find, “I am that I am.”
CHAPTER II
Revelation on Thought Forms
As every plant and human in their re­
spective kingdoms is different from one
another in construction, so, in the realm of
mind, which is the consciousness manifest­
ing on the planes of positive and negative,
every thought of one’s mind is different in
its manifestation; each becoming a living
reality and stamped with a likeness of its
Creator.
These thought forms having good and
bad functions, according to their quality,
operate on the astral plane, producing good
and bad effects, the results of which are
always in our mind, body and nervous
system in the form of health or illness.
10 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
Thoughts which are destructive, drift where
they are invited by a destructive impulse,
and those which are constructive, obey the
same law. Thus they become tbe basis of
action among one or more persons. These
thought forms cause the many changes in
physical nature but do not disturb tbe reas­
onable part of our being, the real self, for
it is above the laws governing the life germs
and thought forms.
The disciple who finds his real self also
finds Him who sent us, for they are one and
the same being, divided only by the distinc­
tion of individuality and non-individuality.
Since* the Master Creator is non-individual,*
the disciple should seek that which is of the
Master rather than that which is of the lower
self and thus become one with the supreme
law of creation; for He holds in His grasp,
energies and forces beyond the conception
of mortal man and'ijrives the worlds before
Him as a charioteer drives his chariot.
Forms evolve, and under His powerful im­
pulse, the imperfect become perfect, mortals
become immortals, and bodies and forms
decompose; all following the grand circular
movement upward and onward in the end-
THE WHITE PROPHECY 11
less procession of eternal progression. To
glorify the seven ruling Arch Angels who
move around the Throne of Grace, such
action and progress forms the plan of sal­
vation which is the essence of evolution,
and satisfies that divine heavenly hierarchy
for whose cause all things exist; and for
whose very spirit, all beings yearn even
though they do so in ignorance of the first
cause which is infinite intelligence.
Revelation on the Symbol of Creation
As my single eye perceived the glories of
creation and my mind conversed with the
Angel Balis, my bliss was beyond expression
and I beheld this symbol of creation.
I saw a large fountain in space. Its base
was blue ethers and its streams of force
could be likened unto the sun, golden in
color and illuminated like precious stones.
“Its powers came from within the center of
its base which was God,' and there were
seven large streams outshining all others in
brilliance. ‘These were the powers of the
seven spirits and their streams of light and
power divided unto many, falling as it were
from the supreme fountain with their es-
12 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
sence streaming downward, nourishing the
worlds and space in the universe, and thus
causing matter to rise upward on mortal
planes. By this friction, mortals decom­
posed and upon decomposition, the refining
process excluded all coarser material and
this power flowed through immortal bodies
without resistance for they were at one with
their light. Then I saw eternity as a great
ocean at the base of this fountain and by
the power of odesity, immortals were drawn
up into the base of the fountain which was
so bright that even I could not fathom its
source or power. When these immortals
were enfolded in this light, they became one
with the power and no individual could
conceive the power of that central point.
Then individuality was lost in oblivion of
bliss and they all became one with the seven
rays of light which governed the seven
cycles of time.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 13
CHAPTER III
Torment
Ignorance causes all torment for it is the
opposite to knowledge which causes all bliss.
Ignorance is a creation of man while knowl­
edge is a creation of God; and even as light
dispels darkness, so does knowledge over­
come ignorance.
The world of man is changeable. One
moment it seems as if all was pleasure be­
cause the senses are pleased, then another
change follows which turns pleasure into
pain because it displeased the senses. Thus
by man seeking change and not controling
himself, he brings upon himself torment
caused by ignorance, some of which is even
more tormenting than one being cast in a
lake of molten lava. Man is corrupted
through misdirection and misapplication of
eternal energy because he refuses to save
himself from such anguish through gaining
knowledge.
I am now lifted up, mentally, into spirit,
that I may behold the working of the law
of change and witness its destructive powers
14 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
which form man’s torment in this and other
worlds unknown to him.
I see before me an endless molten sea, and
I hear the voice of Him upon the Throne of
Wisdom, say, “Behold the burning of the
miserable mixture of man’s wasted energy.”
My vision seems to penetrate the substance
of this sea and in it I see people full of pain
and hear their cries and wailings which
sound like a muffled thunder. They try to
rise upward and escape its burning heat but
since their senses seek to be pleased they
stop to pray and go through rituals of soul
purification. This pleases for a time, then
their minds once more begin to seek other
thrills until they are again aware of the heat,
and once more they seek to rise upward.
But as they struggle, the great hand which
is known as hereditary darkness or train­
ing, reaches out to them and they stop to
admire it and thus again forget their plight
until they begin to perceive their misery;
but since they arc lacking in will, they are
detained by many attractive objects until
their consciousness is expended. Then
weary and still uncertain of the road that
leads to freedom, they fall in the molten and
THE WHITE PROPHECY IS
restless lava where their bodies decompose
and their spirit leaves in the form of sparks
of light. Then, like the body the spirit
drifts here and there, being first attracted
to and then losing attraction in objects along
the way, until it also becomes weary and
begins to lose its glow. It is then that the
rays of the spiritual sun, which are count­
less and beyond comprehension, draws the
spirit first to one and then the other of
them, each time taking some of its sub­
stance, until it becomes identified with the
rays of the sun and loses its individual form.
This law of change is the cause of man’s ills
and in its hidden folds, waiting to become
visible to the careless victim of ignorance,
are the torments of mankind.
Thus the mind, which is the instrument
of the senses, is both man’s torment and his
salvation; for he may find another world
within his world if he would seek the realm
that is changeless and thus become the Son
of God. When he quits wandering and re­
turns home to the true I am, the Supreme
Spirit will be his God and he shall be God’s
son. There in the Kingdom which changes
not, there is neither death nor sorrow for
16 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
all is at one with the ruling powers. All the
angels, who are individuals without attach­
ment, travel from the highest to the lowest
planes administering unto the needs of man.
Seek that inner light by doing the work
of Him who sent you and become lost in
contemplation or inner prayer to the change­
able world. Even become unknown to the
worldly that you may be known to the
spirit and seek, ever, to have no strong at­
tachment except to truth which changes not.
Cast your gaze inward and see the real and
do not be deceived by reflection which is
only the shadow of the real; for as you be­
come peaceful, you lose desire for the world
of change and your powers flow toward the
center of your being. Your illumination
then begins and you rise above the molten
sea of darkness and oblivion, escaping dis­
ease and worldly things. You inherit eter­
nal life and escape the fires of man-made
hell, for everyone creates his own destiny
by his thoughts and deeds. One’s Universal
Temple is composed of these thoughts and
deeds which are performed on the mundane
plane. If they be of the quality that illumi­
nates the inner recesses of the soul, they
r
THE WHITE PROPHECY 17
become a golden thread that reaches unto
eternity and gives a feeling of security to
the ego. Seek, therefore, to he calm and
changeless like the deep of the ocean and
think the beautiful and uplifting thoughts
that become our beacon lights in eternity.
By devotion, build an ark of safety so that
3r
ou may float safely over the molten sea of
material desire and passion as an illumi­
nated soul. By this illumination, you can
see the Angels of Light waiting to direct the
pilgrim from darkness, fear and all the re­
actions of ignorance into perfect light which
is the consciousness of the invisible.
The closer you draw your likes and fancies
to the real self, the less you will experience
the disappointments and tortures of the
outer self. The longer you tarry on the
road of souls progress, the heavier will be-
m come your burden for your strength to en­
dure is lessened by each hardship. Medita­
tion and inner prayer are the golden keys
that unlock the universal storehouse of
power and by their use, you may lighten
your burden for the ego says, “Come unto
me and I will show you the way to bliss and
rest.”
-
18 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
CHAPTER V
The Heavenly Spheres
There are in number, seven heavenly
spheres, each representing a step in human
progression of immortality and also cor­
responding to the seven spirits before the
Throne of Wisdom.
The following narrative is the description
of the first of the heavenly spheres that was
received through revelation.
Being lifted up into spirit, my conscious­
ness ascended and scaled the rates of vibra­
tion until all thoughts of my body had dis­
appeared. Then I heard the voice of the
Father, the Cosmic voice, say, “Behold, I
will show you the secret of immortality and
the heavenly spheres so that you may write
the truth concerning these.”
Before my eyes there appeared a great
globe of white light which became so intense
that I drifted in consciousness within its
center. 'The walls of it seemed to be trans­
parent and I could see through them at ease.
The spheres were then visible in the form
of universal steps of progression, each step
being a state of spiritual consciousness.
r
THE WHITE PROPHECY 19
This sphere symbolizes the Aquasia or
Universal record of the soul where all con­
sciousness is judged by the inner self. After
this judgment which is a process of inward
perception of all right and wrong performed
by the individuals, takes place, the con­
sciousness, if light, awakens to bliss, and if
heavy, drifts downward into unconscious­
ness. These unconscious Astral bodies,
burdened and sorrowful, decline down the
scale of vibration and become enveloped in
darkness of their own making. Then drift­
ing through space, unconscious of sur­
roundings, they seek their level which is to
obsess people in the physical plane.
This law of retrogression causes some
individuals to reincarnate and others to
disseminate, according to their rate of vi­
bration.
The law of progression is the opposite of
retrogression and provides a means of at­
taining immortality. Those benefited by
this law ascend beyond the center of the
first heavenly sphere and develop full con­
sciousness of being, eventually becoming •
angels of light for the guidance of mankind.
They also perform through impulse, the*
M H
20 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
office of helping others by relieving their
suffering and they illuminate the lower
spheres by the brilliance of their aquasic
record. Through this service, they build a
spiritual personality and retain full memory
of their former earthly existence. They
advance through the eternal regions, con­
tacting the higher angels of the spheres who
have the power to transcend the rate of vi­
bration of all the spheres. In this way they
begin to progress and continue until they
» reach the'God-head.
This is the operation of the law of retro­
gression and progression of the first heav­
enly spheres as is experienced by the indi­
vidual following mortal death.
Now the operation of this law in the
second sphere is as follows:
Standing in the great white globe sur­
rounded by a whirling light, I ascended
\ from the first to the second heavenly sphere.
My vision became plainer and I saw be­
fore me countless forms and faces of indi­
viduals of this sphere. Some were more
illuminated than others, those being the
teachers from higher spheres instructing
those less illuminated.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 21
Those from the higher planes were robed
in white and were guided by a great illumi­
nated star which was ever before them. It
had six points from which rays of power
vibrated in all directions and in its center
was written the word, “Anon” which
means, “forever and ever.” The voice then
spoke and said, “Behold, the star is the
image of truth and blessed are those who
know its meaning, for they are the children
of light who uplift and care for humanity.”
As I gazed intently on this six-pointed
star, a feeling of rapture passed through my
being and I became aware of a blue maze
surrounding me. Then it gradually disap­
peared and I discovered myself once more
in the white globe, this time journeying to 3,
the third heavenly sphere.
The voice spoke in a muffled tone re­
sembling thunder and said, “Behold the
third sphere of the heavens.” The beings
that appeared before me were exchanging
thoughts without the use of words and all
seemed self-conscious and free to do as they
desired. Some were meditating on the
progression of the soul while others seemed
attached to relatives and things of the phy-
22 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
sical plane. There were some teachers
among them preparing them for a full soul-
consciousness and telling them to become
calm and non-individualistic so they could
cross the great divide. Their mission was
solely an unselfish one for they had pro­
gressed beyond the plane of individual con­
sciousness and were members of the broth­
erhood of the beings with a pure conscience,
which means, “White Brotherhood.” They
were teaching beings in groups, each group
representing a certain state of development.
The one’s of the lesser development had
still retained their desire for food which
they satisfied by power of thought.
There seemed, apparently, to be a con­
tinuous struggle of the beings to raise
higher and higher in consciousness. This
ascension was governed by their will and
evolutionary development which caused
some to ascend the scale of vibration and
others to descend. Those who descended
resumed their studies of spiritual laws under
the teachers, so they could succeed in the
future.
After observing the acts of the beings of
the third heavenly sphere and the laws gov-
>
THE WHITE PROPHECY 23
erning their progression, I transcended the
rates of vibration and passed from the third
to the fourth heavenly sphere.
Once again, the voice of the cosmos spoke
in a penetrating tone and said, “Behold the
fourth heavenly sphere which is the sphere
of the transma or the state of confusion. It
is the dividing line between the realms of
arch angels and lower spheres.”
The walls of the globe, being then trans­
parent, I viewed many forms and beings,
seemingly in a whirlpool of vibration and
light. In order to escape this whirlpool of
vibration, they had to lose all thoughts of
individuality and cease to he torn between
the two forces of positive and negative
within themselves. This produced a calm­
ness which transported them beyond this
state of confusion. Those not overcoming
the positive and negative forces within them­
selves, were thrown back into the lower
spheres by impacts of vibration, where they
developed strength and power to finally suc­
ceed in attaining this calmness. When they
attained this, they transcended the rates of
vibration to the higher spheres.
24 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
As this vision grew dimmer, the great
voice ceased to speak and I felt a confusing
force within me. Then my being was en­
folded in a blue and purple light and I be­
came almost unconscious as I raised higher
and higher through space, propelled by a
force from within. Then there developed a
beautiful quiet bliss, which cannot be de­
scribed to mortal mind, and the great walls
became transparent. The voice then said,
“Behold the fifth heavenly sphere; the sphere
of divine realizations.”
As I gazed, everything was illuminated, it
was the light that cast no shadow. Every­
thing was calm and blissful and even the
forms of beings seemed to be miniature
suns, each radiating a mixture of lights. I
saw before me tbe arch angels, each send­
ing forth influences of spiritual wisdom to
the lower planes and teaching the fellow
beings the true teachings of Christ, which
are, “let the lower self die, that the higher
self may live and glorify the Father.” In
the distance, I saw a beautiful white temple
and on each side of the entrance there were
four flaming swords pointing in the four
directions.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 25
The voice again spoke and said, “That is
the temple of wisdom not made with hands.
The swords are positive and negative powers
which rule the lower spheres and give unto
the universe the powers of motherhood and
fatherhood. The temple is consecrated light
in the form of a building which means that
wisdom builds. Within it is the Oracle of
the Arch Angels who govern the planets ac­
cording to the spoken word, for every crea­
tion proceeds direct from the Throne of
Grace. Those beings who scale the rates of
vibration and overcome the transma, find on
this plane, perfect intuitive wisdom and
they become lesser angels of light.”
Now my mission filled, I felt a lightness
and a great drawing power and found my­
self once again within the globe of light.
As I ascended higher and higher, a bliss
swept over me and I was almost overcome
with joy, seeming to sense within that I was
approaching the very pinnacle of heavenly
wisdom and power. I forgot my identity
and was dazed by a powerful light penetrat­
ing the globe. Then in my moment of
bliss I noticed again the wall becoming
transparent and my vision rested on a beau-
26 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
tiful blue etheric vapor and the very atmos­
phere seemed penetrated with divinity.
Here the voice spoke again and said, “Be­
hold the sixth heavenly sphere, the plane of
Christ-consciousness and supreme wisdom.
Then as I gazed before me there were
great illuminated clouds, and for an instant,
I was unable to see the beings clearly in this
halo. Then one appeared before me and it
resembled Jesus, the Christ, hut yet I felt
it was not the man Jesus. It was then that
I gazed at the other beings and discovered
that they all resembled Him who died upon
the cross. The voice then spoke and said,
“Behold, thou are within the portals of wis­
dom and all are as one in Christ, the Savior
of the world. Thus it is written, “Yea be­
fore the world, I was in the bosom of my
Father,” for the man Jesus was a perfect
likeness in the flesh and spirit of all who
attained immortality and ascended to the
sixth plane.
This plane was receptive to the great
power of the Almighty Universal Master
and in that sense represented motherhood
and intuition which is of the soul of man.
In rapture, realizing I had been lifted up in
THE WHITE PROPHECY 27
spirit, I praised the Supreme Spirit and
wliile thus in contemplation I heard voices,
seemingly thousands, in unison saying,
“Blessed are the meek and lowly for they
shall know God. A. U. M.”
I then felt a great power drawing me
away from this plane and as I gazed behind
me I saw beings robed in white singing
songs which interpreted meant, “God in­
compasses the universe.” As I then as­
cended the scales of vibration, I felt that I
was losing my individuality and my thoughts
seemed to vibrate to the four corners of the
universe. All the light had then become a
beautiful blue shade and my senses seemed
to have merged into two supreme senses, one
intuitive knowledge and the other universal
knowledge. I felt that I was within every­
one and everyone was within me and all the
power and goodness permeated the spheres
of creation.
The sense of sight having left, I could only
perceive and I was conscious of hearing a
great voice which came from the God-head.
It was the voice of the Cosmos, the unseen
world or the voice of God speaking from
the Throne of Wisdom. It said to me:
28 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
“Lift up your vibrations, O Anon, for that
is the name of your soul. You are now on
the seventh sphere of the heavenly realm and
no one can ascend higher as you are now in
the bosom of the Father. Yea, you, even
you, have witnessed the transcending of the
heavenly spheres. Your mission is to lift
others up so that they may glimpse the eter­
nal kingdom.”
I then heard the voices of the seven spir­
its of the seven cycles chanting songs which
interpreted meant: “I am the power unto
the salvation of the Almighty Father, God.
He who knows our secret, shall rule the
earth.”
Again I felt a drawing as though I was
being drawn from every corner of the uni­
verse and my identity returned.
I awoke on a lower plane, but was still
enveloped in the globe of light. This time
I was conscious of the presence of the Angel
Balis, and as we descended the scales of vi­
bration he spoke and said:'“I give you a
message for the salvation of the world and
you are commanded to deliver it even
though it he not received. The blood of the
Lamb is power of the soul, the upper room
THE WHITE PROPHECY 29
is the higher spheres, and baptism is to re­
ceive the power of the spheres and be con­
scious thereof. To be saved is to overcome
your body and the world. To save others,
is to raise their thoughts and teach them to
be unattached to the world of emotions. To
commune with Christ, is to leave your body
and transcend the spheres or be lifted up in
spirit, as you have experienced. All are
called, but few hear the call. Thus it is
written, ‘I know my sheep, and they hear
my call.’ ”
When one’s life is filled with thoughts of
God and immortality, there is no room for
thoughts of mortality and evil. Those who
desire life after death must give up their
body before death and live in their soul.
He who abides in me hath life everlasting,
and he who dies (that is his body dies), shall
live again. Therefore, tell all who desire
this life to come out of creed and sect, and
take on the arms of Universal Brotherhood.
Meet together and form an oracle of holy
love and seek to transcend the spheres and
thus gain immortality.”
Then, as I gazed through the ball of light,
I saw my body. The voice spoke and said:
30 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
“Behold, you have been dead yet alive.
You have solved the two-fold mystery of
life and death and have supped with the
Master. Keep faithful in your work to save
the people from themselves, and yours shall
be the reward of life eternal.”
After hearing this spoken by an invisible
voice, I noticed in me a desire to return to
my body and so I willed myself into it.
After a period of unconsciousness, I opened
my eyes, but my face was downward on the
floor and my body was numb and there
seemed to be no circulation in my arteries.
But by deep breathing, I soon regained my
physical consciousness again.
Thus ended my divine revelation of the
Heavenly Spheres and the great message I
was commanded to write.
Those who are wise will follow it, as it
was given for them.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 31
CHAPTER 6
Revelation of the Supreme Gospel
Awakened after a sound sleep, the Angel
Balis appeared to me and his body was trans­
parent and surrounded by a halo of light.
My senses became numb and I seemed as it
were, to be gripped by a powerful force.
Looking into my eyes, he spoke and said:
“Anon, learn well the supreme gospel
which is for the liberation of souls in bond­
age and build the Universal Church w'hich
is of the invisible world.” I answered and
said: “Speak and I shall learn.” He passed
his hand over my head and then began the
discourse written here.
“The Church of Jesus, the Christ, is in the
invisible world and he who believes in Him
shall see and know His Church, providing
he keeps the commandment, which is: ‘heal
the sick and live for your fellowman.’
Thoughts and deeds are one, for both must
operate on the same plane of action. With­
in the kingdom there is no lust or envy and
jealousy and greed are unknown. There­
fore, to enter His Kingdom, one must over­
come these principles of darkness, and live
32 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
above the sins of the world. There is no
killing in His Kingdom for all is love and
forgiveness. Those who kill, be they judge,
citizen or government, are without His King­
dom and they have already killed themselves
in the sight of the Son of God. Woe be
unto you murderers, who kill and call your­
self innocent, for ye are already in a molten
sea of mental torment and spiritual dark­
ness.
Enmity is without His Kingdom and
those who fight for vengence are already
lowered into the bottomless pit of anger
which consumes the vital fire of the soul.
Personal gain is without His Kingdom,
and those who are seemingly spiritual for
the sake of gain, have already sold their
soul for a few pieces of silver and unless
they renounce it they will Be lost.
Pride is without His Kingdom, and if one’s
pride causes him to sanction sin, killing,
and revenge, they are more guilty than the
actual participants.
Be meek and lowly and thus be axalted
before the Throne of Grace. No one should
do just, because of fear, but all should do
just for the cause of love. Forced goodness
THE WHITE PROPHECY 33
becomes evil in the making and an evil deed
remains evil as long as it is in one’s memory
as an evil deed.
Ignorance is the greatest sin for it is the
cause of all sin. Knowledge is the light of
the mundane world even as intelligence is
the light of the spiritual world. Set your
light upon a high pinnacle, that all may see
your works which glorify Him Who is Om­
nipotent and Omnipresent.
Soul culture is true worship, for it is the
gateway to the invisible realm of the Al­
mighty Universal Master. No one can hide
from the all-seeing eye, for it is the watch­
man in the tower. Even as it observes our
innermost secrets, it also records for future
reflection. Every man is a reflection of his
higher self which is distinctly different.
Spirit pervades all matter, even as the
rays of the sun, but matter becomes its own
darkness. It sees in the shadow and believes
the shadow to be real.
To be spiritual is one’s duty, and that re­
quires effort to see beyond the vale of mor­
tal sorrow. Even as a father observes the
work of his son, so the law of compensation
watches over our affairs, giving darkness to
34 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
the ignorant and knowledge to the illumi­
nated; for one attracts that which he merits.
The sin of the father is visited upon his
household that all may profit by the one
lesson.
No one needs a miracle to prove to them
the existence of God in the form of Uni­
versal Spirit; all they need is to use their in­
telligence and the same shall be revealed.
Non-resistance is the key to spiritual
growth and immortal glory. 'To resist the
result of divine law is to be carnal, for each
result is merited, be it small or great. Lay
your burden upon the Christ within and
have faith in the result; ask whatsoever you
will justly, and you shall receive. Be not
dismayed when a small manifestation takes
place but give thanks and believe on Him
and your reward shall be increased. Do
not set yourself up as a carnal man to judge
God or the works of Christ within, for they
are already judged by Omnipotent Wisdom
even before the world. Give thanks for
every lesson of mundane life, for it is to
prepare you for a greater life.
Willingly give up the personal view,
which is sinful, for the impersonal, which
THE WHITE PROPHECY 35
%
is saintly. Likes and dislikes, love and
hatred are for the comfort of souls in tor­
ment and are the instruments of the laws
of evolution; they are unreality in manifes­
tation, for they are separated from the Di­
vine Spirit.’ Seek, therefore, to become im­
personal and universal and be illumined by
the spirit of Him Who sent you into the
carnal world. Place all your sorrows, pleas­
ures and disease in the purifying and cleans­
ing fountain of Christ within and think of
them no more and they shall be washed
as white as snow. Be ever unattached to
the carnal world and all things therein, that
you may be free from your body and come
and go into the invisible world at will. Be
one with the invisible, even as the visible,
for is not the Almighty Spirit invisible?
Those who scorn the invisible world have
set themselves against His almighty all-per­
vading power. Oh, foolish men who say;
“I cannot see the truth of the Invisible.”
Ye are blind and know it not. You have
buried yourselves in a tomb of your own
making, and you suffer the torment of dark­
ness.
“Come unto me all ye that are heavy
36 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
laden,” means to lay aside your body and set
free your spirit and come into the sixth
heavenly sphere. “And I will give you
rest,” means bliss, peace through absolute
experience in the heavenly spheres. Let
this be the cry of your soul—I am rising
upward and upward, to Thee, oh my Master.
As you send forth this, your spoken word,
live in accordance with it, and look not back
on your earthly body, and fast and pray for
deliverance until you hear the music of the
heavenly spheres and the chant of the an­
gels. Love yourself therein and thus be ye
united with Christ even as you are united to
the Father for “I am in Him and He is in
me,” sayetli the Lord of Hosts. “Knock and
it shall be opened unto you; seek and ye
shall find,” even as it is written.
Feelings may hold you back, for they
are partial to the mundane world, but be
not weary in your task of mastery, for
Christ has overcome the world, and He is
present in your uppermost mind.
If you believe in this it shall be done, if
you count not time, for time is of the lower
world; so also is space and place, for they
are below the fourth dimension, which is
THE WHITE PROPHECY 37
eternal progression. If you believe this
doctrine you will give up any earthly treas­
ure that it may live; if you believe it not,
then you will not care if others know it or
not; thus are all tested in the fire of life
and their deeds shall be their joy or their
sorrow. Learn to give first and to receive
later. Do not give for a price, for such is
not a gift but a purchased object. Work
and trust to receive a reward, but never
work for the reward, for greater reward is
awaiting you. He who believes in the
greater and seeks it continually, cannot re­
ceive the lesser, but he who seeketh not can­
not receive, for the law is against him. He
who expects no hereafter will never con­
sciously experience one of reality, because
he has already prepared one of non-reality
for himself.
One who lives in confusion in this world
also lives in confusion in the invisible world;
such is the operation of the natural laws
governing the children of the Omnipotent
Presence. That which is of the visible
world proceeds back to the invisible from
whence it came, seeing that the sensible
world is attached to the intelligible world,
38 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
the intelligible world to the elemental world
and the elemental to the heavenly or spir­
itual world, and the spiritual to the realms
of Divine Spirit or Godhead, completing
a Perfect Circle, in which is all life and the
essence thereof, composing the corporal
spheres and the heavenly hierarchy. Thus
all things must follow the white light, which
shines in the soul of every human, back to
the divine source. When the mind is lifted
up, the body is glorified as it becomes illumi­
nated by the heavenly light from beyond the
spheres of individuality and elemental en­
vironment. Thus it is that the angels of the
higher planes commune with those who
have lifted up their mind and spirit, for by
mind all communication is possible.
Thus ended the discourse of the Supreme
Gospel as taught by Balis the Angel or In­
visible Master of the Brotherhood of Pure
Souls, and I was told to prepare for my
next lesson on Baptism to be given by the
same Teacher.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 39
CHAPTER 7
Baptism
Several days having passed since the time
I received the Supreme Gospel, the Angel
Balis appeared to me on the Fifth heavenly
sphere, when I was in the Spirit, or out of
my body, and instructed me in true baptism
as follows:
“Baptism, oh, Child of Light, is a great
experience for every soul who receives it
consciously. The Baptism of the Spirit
under grace is not the baptism of the body,
that being only a carnal symbol of the true
baptism. As baptism of the flesh is for the
materialist there is also baptism of the spirit
for the truly spiritual. After one has re­
nounced his body and the world, the body
ceases to be him; and, therefore, he, the
one formerly of the body, must be baptised
in the world of Spirit. Listen that you may
write, for my words are power unto him
that believeth in Christ, whom I serve.”
When the child of light leaveth his
earthly abode, as is outlined in the Supreme
Gospel, then he is met on this, the Fifth
heavenly plane or sphere, by a teacher; then
40 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
around him comes a deep purple light, in­
termingled with gold. The Master is robed
in white with a six-pointed star in his fore­
head, which means: “I am one with Christ.”
He carries a crook, which means: “I care
for his sheep;” around his head is a halo
of light, that being the sign of an Illumi­
nated Soul who came up through great trib­
ulation. He says: “Welcome, my brother
of the true path,” then extends his hand,
meaning fellowship in Christ and leads the
Illuminated one beyond the Fifth Sphere
into the Sixth. Here the likeness of Christ
pervades the realm and the Divine Person­
ality appears and blesses and baptises the
child of light by power to overcome the
world and sup with Him and live in anticipa­
tion of a finished service to his kingdom,
that one may dwell in the house of the
Lord forever and ever.
This is the true baptism. Some receiving
it are conscious of it; some are not, but all
are illuminated by it. The baptism under
the law was of the body, and is subject to
the law, but the baptism of the Spirit is
under Grace, or above the law. Those re­
ceiving it consciously are few in number,
THE WHITE PROPHECY 41
but all can receive it if they count not time
in self perfection. Let those in the temple
who have received it tell those about it who
have not, that they may all be of one faith,
for in Unity there is Power, in separateness
there is weakness.
In a baptismal service no one except
those seeking should be admitted into the
temple, as this is a service sacred unto the
Most High. Seven days of fasting and daily
consecration to the Divine Kingdom should
precede the actual ceremony, which is a way
of the Ancients in overcoming the body, and
is known only to the Priests or Teachers of
the Temple. There should be two baptis­
mal services in every year; the Sixth and the
Twelfth month, when the moon is entering
a Cardinal Sun, which is the symbol of unity
between the mind of man and God. Only
members of the temple who have visited the
upper room should hear the testimonies
unto the Presence of Christ, for others scorn
the work of Christ and call it the works
of Satan, even as they did during the reign
of the lion of the tribe of Judah on earth.
Satan w'as an abominable lie and was cre­
ated by the evil minded; he could not exist
42 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
in a kingdom filled with love. Yet he does
exist in the form of torture to those who
are wilfully without the Kingdom, for they
inflict their own wounds, but know it not;
of such is the carnal world. But such tor­
ture and sorrow cannot affect a child of
light who has been baptised by the Spirit,
with fire which is eternal life and light for­
ever and forever.
Give thanks, oh loved ones of His King­
dom, for ye are the salt of the earth, a light
set upon a high hill. After your baptism,
he ye truly illuminated with the essence of
love and let your light shine before you.
Speak not of your experience in the heavenly
spheres to the carnal world, but keep it as
a sacred memory and a promise of eternal
life, for it is His comforter for those who
love Him, and this knowledge is the light
of the world to those who can receive it; if
given to those who cannot, it will remain a
mystery. The Lord of Hosts sayeth: “Let
him who hath eyes see, and who hath ears
hear,” this meaning spiritual eyes and ears,
or sense perception, for God is no respector
of persons.
Thus endeth my lesson on the Fifth
THE WHITE PROPHECY 43
Heavenly Sphere, called True Baptism, and
I experienced the things recorded herein and
know that any true disciple can do so, even
as I, if they be faithful to the Supreme Gos­
pel and count not time in their efforts of
self perfection.
All who believe this will gladly give up
all to follow it, for it will be their eternal
light and blessed are those in their sac­
rifice of the lower self; to those who do not
it will never be a comfort or joy to them,
for it cannot, as they are not ready for such
truth. Their soul has yet to progress to­
ward the Great Universal Spirit in order to
be born again, hut when it is born again it
will then accept this truth, for truth changes
not.
THE GREAT REVELATION OR
CHAPTER 8
Supreme Devotion
Once again my consciousness left my
body and ascended into the Sixth Heavenly
sphere, and there appeared unto me a man
in a white robe who resembled the Christ
in appearance and manner, standing as it
were on a mountain and around him was a
bright white light. When he perceived me
he said: “Come up hither, child of my king­
dom,” and I walked straightway unafraid up
the mountain until I was close to him. He
seated himself on the ground and began to
teach me on the subject of devotion as it
is recorded here.
“Behold, I have never left the world, for
I am of it, but it has left me, inasmuch as it
has forsaken the true path of devotion and
has substituted long ceremonies to be heard
and seen by men. Therefore, my own can­
not hear my voice for they listen with ma­
terial ears, yet knowing I ascended into the
Kingdom of my Father, which is not ma­
terial, but Spiritual. I have always supped
with those who love me, and I appeared to
them after my lower body was crucified, yet
THE WHITE PROPHECY 45
they think that was my last appearance.
Why should I favor some who devote their
lives to my kingdom and forsake others?
Those who live a life of Purity and devote
their life to healing the sick and teaching
the truth are my sheep and I am their shep­
herd. I walk and I talk with them, for I
am the same today as I was yesterday, and
will be the same forever. It was my body
that was crucified, but I, the Universal Per­
sonality, never experienced pain or sorrow.
'When I said: ‘Go into your closet and close ♦
the door and I will come in and sup with
you,’ I meant that to be done for the whole
generation and for all time, and not for just
one occasion.'
All devotion that is true must be founded
upon love of fellowman and as long as any­
one has selfishness in his nature and lives
in its environment, he cannot experience true
unselfish devotion; but anyone losing all
selfishness is born again and former things
pass away. There is a new heaven and a
new earth to that person, and they are
one with me and I and the Father are One.
But now I give thee a new commandment,
which is ‘worship me not, but worship Him
46 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
that sent me.’ And do so without your body
as well as within. Set ye up an holy Oracle
and ask of it to commune with me. See
that no one but my disciples are present and
I will come in and sup with you in Spiritual
Wisdom and all things shall be revealed unto
you which are hidden from the corporal
W
’orld.
Let the one who becomes the Oracle puri­
fy his mind and live, holy unto the Lord or
ruling Angel. Let him fast and be one who
is gifted with freedom from the flesh body.
Then he may sit in the midst of twelve,
each being selected because of their love of
me. Then upon the command of the leader
or chosen diciple, I will reveal myself to
the Oracle, and will show you the Way of
truth and the life of supreme devotion for
the day of Prophesy is not over, but has
just begun. Yea, my sheep know my voice
and they hear me when I call, and Lo, I
am with you even unto the end of the world.
Cleanse your temple of every earthly thing,
that the Spirit may abide in peace. I am
the Groom; this, my Church, is the Bride
and all Good comes of this unity.
Many have come on the visible or physi-
THE WHITE PROPHECY 47
cal plane and have said ‘lo, I am the Christ,’
yea, even as I prophesied, hut I have with­
drawn from the mundane plane and there­
fore have not come into the world of flesh
since I have arisen. My command is ‘Come
unto me and I will give ye rest.’ Marvel
not at this saying for many do come unto
me even now and I do give them rest, peace
and bliss. I even minister unto the sick and
give of the bounties of my Kingdom unto the
needy, to all who seek of me. Be ever ready,
disciple, to be called false and be persecuted
for me, for such has been the fate of dis­
ciples before you, hut blessed is he who
suffers for my name’s sake; the same shall
be rewarded in the invisible Kingdom, which
is the Sixth heavenly sphere. A host of
angels shall serve those who serve me, for
even as they serve me, I serve them also.
Be meek and lowly and seek inner knowl­
edge, rather than outer fame; for in the
outer are infidels, liars and blasphemers,
who exist only because of the mercy of my
Father, who is all love and tolerance. The
world of men seek the vanity of men, but
there are few indeed who seek fellowship
with me. Those whose conscience is dead
48 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
have lost their soul and therefore are in tor­
ment; yea, even in a molten sea, which will
later consume them. Those who have
treasures on earth know me not, and riches
are only to be used to glorify the Divine
Spirit; those who refuse to sacrifice for me
while on earth, I will not sacrifice for them
in heaven, for that which is bound on earth
is also bound in heaven. Those who wait to
die to find heaven will be rewarded with the
heaven of the dead, which is darkness; seek,
therefore, the heaven of the light that ye
may find everlasting Peace and Glory. Those
who believe this doctrine, to them it will
be eternal life; those who believe it not, to
them it is as though it were not, and it
cannot be their salvation.
Oh, faithless generation of men, how long
will ye strive against the Spirit of my
Father. Come into His kingdom and realize
the peace that passeth all understanding.
Birth is the gateway to death and death is
the gateway to life to those who believe on
me. Strive not against your enemy, for
such action is carnal. Be submissive to the
spirit, which is not to resist evil but to over­
come it with good. Now I bid you return
THE WHITE PROPHECY 49
to your body until such time as you need
my guidance.”
After this saying by the Master, the Christ,
Son of the Living God, my consciousness
then lowered into my body and I was con­
scious of a sweet bliss seeming to radiate
from my soul.
50 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
CHAPTER 9
Doctrine
After a long fast, I was sitting meditating
on the suffering of the world, and these
thoughts came to my mind. Are there any
who are free from disease; free from death;
free from decay? Are there any who can
be sure of a continuance of consciousness
after death? To what purpose is life, if it
be filled with sorrow? Losing my mind
temporarily to everything but the subject,
I soon was selfless, hut Consciousness was
manifesting and in a haze there appeared an
illuminated form behind me, and it said:
“Worthy disciple of Life’s deepest teach­
ings, I have come to answer your questions,
that you may write their answers in the
sacred book of Truth. I am Wisdom, I am
being and non being. I am the wise man
of all ages, I am intelligence, free from self
incarnation. I am the Buddha of the east
and west. Listen well that my words may
live in thee and bear fruit, for words do
produce their fruit, both good and evil, dear
Teacher of the Incarnate. Only those who
give up self and the illusion of self feeling
THE WHITE PROPHECY 51
can be free from disease; if they live only
for truth, they can never feel pain. Those
who live in good deeds and sacrifice willingly
without thought of gain, cannot decay; for
even as good is eternal, so their conscious­
ness becomes likewise, for it is illuminated
by eternal Permanence. The only ones sure
of continued consciousness are those who
have given up the pursuit of pleasure and
lust and live for the good they can do and
cease to have what the world calls personal
feelings, likes and dislikes.
The Purpose of Life is to gradually grow
from infancy to youth, youth to old age,
old age to death of the body and self; and
from that to Immortality or Supreme Peace.
Now, some will not walk in truth and scorn
the teachings of those illuminated and
chosen to rescue them from eternal anni­
hilation, therefore their lot is to suffer and
then only oblivion in mercy rescues them
from further pain; some suffer and become
sensitized to the reward of good and forsake
their selfish ways, they are many in number.
There are some of those who become great
prophets and teachers, while others gain
only a personal reward of immortality.
52 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
Others who are souls with greater experience
before their incarnation are called gifted
leaders. These different types serve the law
of evolution and it is their purpose to fulfill
the laws of the Deity in their different
spheres, that the light of the Father may
shine from the lowest apex of creation to
the highest. This is the purpose of life,
and those who accept truth and live in it and
forsake the babble of the unlearned and the
ignorant ceremonies will find eternal peace,
for that is the road to spiritual attainment.
Then I asked the Illumined One: ‘Shall we
reincarnate in another body or shall we gain
permanent reward of either immortality or
dissolution,” to which he replied: *‘Your
deeds will reincarnate or become material
manifestations, be they good or evil, but
those who do good deeds perpetuate their
memory through evolving a spiritual or im­
mortal memory; thus they live in those
deeds and are conscious of immortality,
while doers of evil deeds are only perpetu­
ated in the material world, for they can not
exist in a higher sphere of life. So they, by
virtue of their deeds, are bound to the plane
of illusion or mortality. Thus one’s mor-
THE WHITE PROPHECY 53
tality or reincarnation depends on their
deeds and memory and so likewise one’s im­
mortality. ' There is no set law of reincar­
nation, because there cannot be future
knowledge of deeds in an individual’s ex­
istence.* Those who follow after truth and
love and give up self can experience Im­
mortal and invisible existence while on
earth, for they are immortal to the extent
that they desire only that which is good.
And when one loves the spiritual he will
cleave to all things Divine, and in that at­
tain unity with Christ and his dual forces
will be subdued forever and forever. Calm­
ness and peace will he his reward, and non-
resistance will be his aim. The meaning of
non-resistance is to overcome sorrow with
bliss, hatred with love, pain with pleasure,
death with life, envy with blessings, evil
with good, and darkness with knowledge.
This is a development of the mind more
than a quality of the soul; this is the path
to Supreme Wisdom, bliss and spiritual
power. Those who follow this path pos­
sess the Kingdom of Heaven and have all
its bounties; those who do not are forever
in tribulation and they cannot rest. They
54 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
are the blind, the deaf and the dumb to the
Unseen World, and therefore, inherit the
grave and sorrow and disappointment and
fall short of the Glory of God.’ ”
After this saying, the Enlightened One
vanished from my view and left me to re­
flect on what had been told me, and I felt
like one who had experienced a wonderful
dream and my entire view of life had been
changed. Then I entered a state of bliss
and sent my thanks out into the Universal
for the great knowledge which had been re­
ceived and I wondered why people are so
slow to seek Wisdom and Truth, and why
more do not see the great things which I
have seen, for indeed the greater part of
lile is unseen to mortal eyes. Some, it
seems, prefer darkness, but they do not re­
alize the price it will exact from them soon­
er or later. The soul is a lamp; it burns
and illuminates the entire dwelling and
when it is gone out of the dwelling, which
is our body, there is indeed darkness.
There are six points of wisdom which
everyone should learn, and they would then
gain greater understanding from the same
source as the Prophets. They are:
THE WHITE PROPHECY 55
1st—Live for Service to others.
2nd—Desire wisdom more than self.
3rd—Repeat over and over the command- •
ment “Love the Lord, thy God, more
than life.
4th—Exercise by daily deeds, all good prin-
cipiles known to one.
5th—Try to see beyond one’s fancies and
desires.
6th—Cleanse the mind of forms and fash­
ions and long ceremonials called reli­
gion and think of truth, love, and light.
The wise are the ones who feel they are
not wise, and the child with its innocent
simplicity is an example of Godliness. Thus
it is written: “a child shall lead them.”
Those who say: “I can not know the ways
of the Father Spirit,” have already fallen
into a dark pit, for all can know the Father,
for He is the perfection and the natural in
nature. He is the beauty and sweet per­
fume of the honeysuckle, the life in the
water, the rugged beauty of the hills, the
culture of the city, and the intelligence of
56 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
the mind of every individual. Thus all
things are propelled by Divine Power and
grow and develop into perfection. The Di-
Vine is the only reality, the material is illu­
sion and unreality, because it constantly
changes, while Divine Spirit stays always
the same.
There are two selves; the self of reality
and the self of unreality. The first sym­
bolizes darkness, and the other light;' the
first deals witli man’s affairs, while the
other deals with God’s Kingdom. He who
finds his real self will also find Immortal­
ity, peace and power, and will know God.
He who does not find his real self, loses
life’s greatest reward, which is continuation
of consciousness after physical death.
The way to find the real self is to live the
Truth and sacrifice secret preferences and
serve others; and when you find a joy in
that, you find the real self.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 57
CHAPTER 10
A Revelation on Marriage
I was in deep meditation, thinking about
the numerous cases of inharmony in mar­
riage relationships, when I became conscious
that a loud voice was speaking to me, com­
ing, it seemed, from the invisible Source of
Wisdom, and it said:
“There is only one true marriage and that
one is a Spiritual Marriage, which may be
attained in this manner. One force must
be positive and the other negative, and the
union is desired from the operation of the
law of attraction, which precedes desire.
Those who become conscious of this desire
for union of the sexes should consult their
innermost promptings and find out if this
union would be for their Spiritual advance­
ment. If not, then it should be rejected.
When two can unite and both have their
lives dedicated to the same Spiritual cause,
that is Spiritual Marriage and it will en­
dure, because the cause is a permanent one.
But when two bodies unite for the sake of
lust of the flesh, then only trouble will come
from such union; for it is based on a chang-
58 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
ing condition instead of a permanent law.
Such a lust being satisfied, the same lust
seeks other grounds for a similar satisfac­
tion; for all such satisfaction is only illu­
sion, or a temporary condition. That is the
cause of most of the unhappy marriages of
our time. There would be permanent mar­
riages in every case if each party to the union
were first united to Truth, for Truth binds
all and makes them one, becoming a force
for good in a super Spiritual union. A child
born of a Spiritual marriage will be a great
genius in some respect and will love the
things that are just and beautiful and will
serve the Most High. These children are
the light of the Corporal world, because
they were created from a union which was
unselfishly formed. The children of a car­
nal marriage, where lust is the object of the
union, are full of malice, hatred and envy
from birth. Many such children overcome
the dark principles thus born, while many
become the instrument of crime and com­
mit acts of cruelty; to them it seems justice.
Thus a lustful marriage is a curse to the
children thereof, and a Spiritual marriage a
blessing to the children thereof.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 59
The difference between a carnal marriage
and a Spiritual marriage is that the carnal
is for lust while the Spiritual is a union
caused by both the man and woman being
interested or attached to an exalted cause,
and the physical union is of secondary im­
portance.
When all marriages become spiritual then
will peace be on earth and good will unto
man. It is the mothers who will cause the
Millennium to come upon earth, for they
are receptive to the Holy Spirit.
There is no such thing as a sacred carnal
union and no ceremony can sanctify it, for
it is of the animal plane and is of the animal
nature, and God and sanctification is the
opposite.
The very fact that divorce is in the world
is evidence that those divorced did not seek
a joining together by God or Good, but
sought only the satisfaction of the low ani­
mal instinct. It is far better that one never
marries than to marry for that cause alone.
That which God joins together must be
holy, and therefore no man can put it asun­
der, be he king, priest or judge. With this
definite fact, anyone may aspire to and at-
60 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
tain the true spiritual marriage and then
the physical union should be considered.
When this truth is accepted by some of the
people, those especially who believe in and
follow this revelation a super spiritual race
of people will he born to prepare this earth
for the establishing of the great Kingdom.
Those people following this doctrine will
he persecuted and will have great hardships,
but their reward will be supreme peace and
happiness and they will be the light of the
corporal world, even as Christ is the light
of the heavenly world. They will not know
sorrow nor want, neither will they know
disease, for God cares for his own. But
their minds must be fixed on a definite
spiritual ideal, and they must live for knowl­
edge instead of gain and must overcome
malice, hatred and envy; for if they do not,
they will fail to accomplish this purpose.
Seek ye, therefore, the Kingdom of God, and
all things shall be added unto you.
This is the true way to end war, murder
and crime, and is to be the salvation of the
mundane world even as sound doctrine is
the salvation of the heavenly world.
Before childbirth a mother should have
THE WHITE PROPHECY 61
only spiritual thoughts and no emotion
should be allowed to impress her mind, for
every thought of hers, according to their
quality, has either a good or bad effect on
the child’s formation. She should also con­
secrate herself to the Divine Father and
dedicate her child to the upliftment of the
world. This is the true way to attain spir­
itual motherhood and to protect the child,
as well as to protect society.”
Thus the voice ceased to speak on this
subject.
62 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
CHAPTER 11
Prophecy
Being lifted up into the Spirit, I saw and
heard the following prophecy concerning
the Welfare of Man, and events which are
to come transpired before my very eyes.
I saw a great War, the beginning being in
the far east where the sun rises, and the con­
flict was over me and mine. I heard loud
voices proclaim “This is mine. I will not
be your slave.” And a great conflict raged
and the blood that flowed equaled a river,
and many were in hiding; those were the
ones who had caused the war. They were
afraid of the river of blood and would not
attempt to cross it; so those on the east side
of the river of blood won the conflict and
then they crossed it and were saying, “Now
we are the conquerors and we will make
you our slaves even as you did us”. Then
I saw clouds in the west that were red, but
the sun did not shine; they were being illum­
inated by a red glow. Then I saw horses
and huge guns and flying forts in the air,
and they were destroying the people by the
million and they tried to kill those from the
THE WHITE PROPHECY 63
east, but they did not, for they were sur­
rounded on all sides and could find no way
of escape. Then I saw men who were
crippled and maimed, and they cried “Down
with Materialism”, and soon 1 heard that
great cities lay in ruins and there were many
dead and dying; then I heard a loud voice
from the heavens say, “Peace on Earth,
Peace, Peace”, and all then was quiet and it
was a great day of rejoicing for those who
had been in bondage hut were now free.
The entire earth seemed to have emerged
from darkness into light, and there were no
more oppressed nations for brother refused
to combat brother and Justice reigned su­
preme and all those imprisoned because of
their belief, were set free and there were
great changes in every part of the world.
Then a voice spoke and said, “This is the *
end of oppression of foreign nations and
wars of conquest, and henceforth each na­
tion will govern its own people, and peace
on earth will be established. This is to
come before a hundred years.”
This vision passed away, and then I heard
the voices of many and I turned and saw
the multitudes of the earth and some were
64 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
carrying a Star and some a Cross and some
a Crescent. They were dressed in vestments
used in religious worship. I heard among
those who carried the Cross these words,
“There is no Christ, there is no God, there
is no devil; there is no angel, there is no
heaven and no hell”. Then speakers who
were numerous tried to reason with the
multitude and could not, because the multi­
tude were saying, “You drove us to war.
You hanged us. You caused us to be poor
and you are a liar and a thief. Down with
you.” And then the whole multitude began
to fight among themselves until they had
killed the speakers, and then all doctrines
were called to answer and those of the
Crescent revolted against their leaders and
great turmoil manifested. Then there were
several groups, each elected their leader and
all seemed peaceful with them. Then I saw
those of the Cross start walking and follow­
ing the Star and all were saying, “Where is
the master of the Star?” After much
walking a man appeared in the clouds robed
in white and a doorway was opened above
his head and he drew those of the Cross to
him by his power and he said, “Now shall
THE WHITE PROPHECY 65
all things hidden be revealed and this is the
Way to the throne of Grace, and'God is
Spirit^ Love one another and you will be
rewarded with wonders.” And those of the
Cross bowed their heads and asked to be re­
ceived, and then in the doorway appeared
Jesus the Christ and He said, “Forsake the
babble of the unlearned; govern your pas­
sions and kill not, for your Father in heaven
loveth enemy and friend alike, and is it not
better to please Him who gave you life. Stay
away from temples of the unbelievers and
materialists; enter not into one where they
teach war and death, but follow me. Give
your life for your enemies and learn to sac­
rifice.” Then the door opened and all were
lifted up from their bodies and they went
in where there shone a bright light, and they
were then happy and full of peace.
The voice then said: “This is the end of
belief and disbelief, and hereafter knowl­
edge will rule and there will be no more dis­
ease, death nor war; for this is the fall of
what men call religion, which teaches peo­
ple to kill. This will happen before six
score and ten years have elapsed. So write
and prophecy the end of misery and woe
66 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
and the return of Christ’s own to Him, for
He and His cause will live after creed and
greed have died; the spirit of the Father will
not always strive against the flesh.”
Thus ended this Prophecy, as was spoken
by the heavenly Voice. Those who doubt
these sayings will be a part of this Prophecy
and those who do not will escape this great
conflict, for they will have a spiritual con­
sciousness. Those attaining this state can­
not ever experience sorrow or disappoint­
ment, for they are attached to that which is
unchangeable; they live in the real Self and
not in their bodily passions.
After this prophecy of the downfall of
materialistic Christianity I felt sorry for the
millions of earnest souls who are subject to
falling spiritually into oblivion and dark­
ness, for they deserve a greater reward and
nature is no respector of persons, neither is
the Supreme Being. Those who are ignor­
ant are responsible for their ignorance, for
that constitutes the greatest of sin, since an
open mind is all that is needed to gain Wis­
dom and thus avoid the lot of the ignorant.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 67
CHAPTER 12
Illumination
Being receptive and meditating on the
Illumination of the Self, I heard a voice,
seeming in a distance, and it said,
“Behold, oh, teacher, the answer to your
thoughts and write it in the book of True
Light that it may hear fruit in the minds
of others. True Illumination comes to
those who introspect, continually longing
for contact with God. The longing attracts
to them divine enlightened elementáis,
which stamp their likeness on their soul,
their mind and their deeds. These elemen­
táis of pure spirit differ in character and
rate of vibration; some high and some low,
and in their color to purple and indigo.
Great multitudes of them gather around one
single pure thought and they illuminate our
inner consciousness; according to the length
of time one can hold a pure thought, they
predominate in our being. One whose mind
continually holds divine thoughts, becomes
a receptacle for them and they seek to trans­
form all creatures around whom they gather
in the form of an angel, and one’s thoughts
68 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
then become the means of transformation
and regeneration. Now according to their
presence, both in number and force, one is
at peace with the world and no illusion can
mar their vision, for they become one’s
senses and power to perceive. These ele­
mentáis are of one quality, divine, and they
are miniature sparks from the Divine flame
which illuminates the whole world; and
there are some gifted with the sight of the
inner eye, who can see them in operation.
Since man can govern his thoughts, he
also can govern elementáis and invisible
powers, being a son of God or Deity. Now
then, it is the duty of all to sit in the silence
\ at least once a day and attract these higher
elementáis that they may become the light
of their deeds and thereby transform their
life from chaos into bliss, from sickness into
health and from a lower to a higher sphere.
The number that can he attracted by one
good thought held in the mind is beyond
the counting, by the conscious mind, and
their number in the universe is greater than
the stars.
One who enters days and nights of con­
templation, striving diligently to attract, by
THE WHITE PROPHECY 69
spiritual thoughts, the divine elemental life
forces, will gradually grow into wisdom,
and all disease will leave his body, as these
elementáis begin to fill his body and his
mind. The absence of these forces causes
disease, sin and crime, and is known under
the common term, “evil.”
The forces in the bodies of the Prophets
are ruled by these elementáis, which ac­
counts for their powers to reveal and heal
the sick, and in Jesus they were greater than
any other force.
This illumination is produced through
good thoughts, attracting spiritual elemen­
táis and divine power through the operation
of these elementáis directed by the will of
man; and the will of man, when used for
the spiritual demonstrations of power, is
also the will of God.
Now true illumination comes also from a
joining of the will of man to the will of God,
by continually doing the will of Him who
sent us. These forces produce a halo
around the head of the Illuminated, being
purple intermingled with gold, and many
of the disciples have seen the halo around
the teacher. This halo also illuminates the
70 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
face, and thus it is written, “And his face
was as a bright and shining light”.
Those desiring this illumination must get
it before physical death, in order that they
may manifest the eternal light which is of
the immortal spheres. The practice of the
, gaining of these powers can be as follows:
The seeker may read a line of this sacred
book dealing with the Supreme Power, then
all present who are seeking should see how
long they can hold that one spiritual thought,
thereby attracting these elementáis of pure
spirit; then by introspection fill every sec­
tion of the brain and body with them and
practice feeling them in operation. Each
thought of malice, hatred or envy will
counteract this achievement. Be therefore
careful of thoughts if you desire Spiritual
Illumination.”
Thus ended my Revelation on Illumina­
tion.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 71
CHAPTER 13
Revelation on the T w o Loves
There are two loves, Carnal and Spiritual,
as there are two selves, inner and outer.
Their operation was revealed to me in deep
meditation, as follows:
Spiritual love is symbolized by a golden
thread which comes from the Supreme
Source of Spirit and connects to every
human being in the solar center in their
body; thus are all people united to the One
Supreme Source of Spirit by this connection.
The outward manifestation of this cord of
love is a deep regard for human life and the
feeling that it is sacred. This bond is as
strong between strangers as it is between
relatives and makes all races and creeds
brothers, and its very existence says “thou
shalt not kill.” It is also a barrier to the
operation of brutal instinct and ever makes
man think of mercy. It hinds criminal to
saint and the social outcast to society’s
highest in position. Its very existence and
operation will some day put an end to
human killing human, for this practice is
72 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
common only to animals of the lower order,
having no reason, and it is not a part of the
Divine Plan of salvation, therefore it is
temporary only. So are all institutions that
endorse if sentenced to decay by the highest
decree known to man, which is the law of
compensation. He who wields the sword
shall die by the sword; he who kills shall
kill himself, and a society which kills is
doomed to failure and decay, even as mighty
Rome lost her power, so that nation shall
die, for no nation is greater than God.
Now any man’s judgment that shows
spiritual love first manifests in one by a
sense of inwardly detesting the killing of a
human being; for revenge belongs to ani­
mals and is not a manifestation of justice
in any sense. Thus as the power of broth­
erly love conies into manifestation so all
hatred, envy and strife shall leave, and to
be willing to die that this cause shall live is
to be an example of a true disciple of the
loving Christ.
Spiritual love is the light of the entire
world; it is selfless, it is non individualistic,
it is the supreme law of God among men;
it is the manifestation of the Christ. Come
THE WHITE PROPHECY 73
into spiritual love all ye that suffer and you
will have rest and peace. Seek not to de­
stroy your enemy, hut bless him, and you
will through divine power, gain the victory.
Keep your mind closed to hatred, if you
would commune with Christ. Pray and
meditate to learn to love.
Now Carnal Love is an attraction caused
from sex emotion and glandular action! it
is the essence of selfishness, it is passion of
the lower type; it produces an illusion of
happiness which in most cases is followed
by pain and disappointment when the illu­
sion is gone. Unity, which is real happiness,
can be attained only by unity in a supreme
spiritual cause, or for the fulfillment of the
desire to create.
Many persons attaching themselves to
others, upon the realization of the end of
their dream, commit murder, and others
kill themselves, because they were attached
to the carnal which is temporary, instead of
being attached to God, who is permanent.
This carnal love proves itself to be a de­
stroyer of happiness and therefore it cannot
be sacred. Thus one should consider it, and
74 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
never let the mind be centered entirely on
one attachment.
Even though you live up to the moral
standards of society, selfish love is not love
at all, it is a sensual manifestation of greed,
while spiritual love is the very essence of
the unselfish Christ Spirit. Seek, therefore,
to love all people the same and consider
carnal relations as a transitory illusion,
solely designed by creation to teach the
world the higher and real selfless love, for
that which is selfless is of God; that which
is selfish is of man. Transmute the lower
into the higher.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 75
CHAPTER 14
Revealed Sayings of the Soul
These sayings were revealed by Inspira­
tion; they are the Ideals of the Soul, which
if learned by repetition join together the soul
and the mind and cause great Spiritual
awakening, thereby doing away with sepa­
ration from the Divine Spirit. If you live
these sayings and know them to be true you
will gain immortality, for in unity there is
power, and in Spirit there is perpetual
existence, for which every one craves.
1 .
When love of self is gone only love of
God remains; this is true Spirituality.
2.
My mind rises to the height of soul’s im­
mortal flight, when I think of thee, oh, Self­
less Love. Sorrow disappears when I look
above.
3.
My body has suffered because it was sepa­
rate from my soul. I will cause this unity
and forever dwell in peace.
76 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
4.
My soul is as the depths of the ocean:
always calm, never knowing the storms or
passion of lower self.
5.
Oh, Lord, in thy Glory, that thou would
welcome me, a poor mortal, to thy sphere;
for this revelation I am speechless.
6.
Thou, Oh, Mighty Spirit, God of Gods and
Lord of Hosts, that thou dwellest in me is
my greatest comfort.
7.
My unity with Thee, Oh, Spirit Divine,
stops all pain and heals my broken heart;
holds me steadfast to Thee and causes me
to tread the Path to Glory,,.
8.
Oh, thou Almighty Soul, who helps the
helpless and loves the guileless, show me the
way to knowledge of Thee.
9.
All fears disappear and doubts are no
more when I do thy bidding, Oh, Universal
Soul.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 77
10.
I sit in unbroken silence, listening to the
voice of my soul; its advice frees me from
all sin and cleanses every thought.
11.
No ignorance shall bind my soul, this
is man’s stepping stone to a higher heavenly
goal. My mind, body and spirit is free and
Christ comes in to sup with me.
12.
Command me, Oh God, through my soul.
I have emptied my hands and am free to
do Thy will.
13.
The thread of Love, oh, Divine Spirit,
binds me to Thee alone. I wandered in the
night until it led me home.
14.
As the sun shines through early morning
hours, touching all things with its rays, my
soul shines out through my deeds, and that
is why I am brave.
15.
Selfless service may I attain that leads me
on life’s way, and ever feel the Light that
guides me every night and day.
78 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
16.
Oh, sweet music of Soul’s sphere, sweeter
than other refrain, let me ever lend an ear
to thee, over and over again.
17.
Oh, subtle Power, Oh, Soul, I lay my bur­
dens at thy feet; through non-resistance I
cannot meet defeat.
18.
Oh, Soul, tune my ears to thy heavenly
symphony, that I may hear the angels’ song
throughout eternity.
19.
Oh, how can I thank thee, oh, God, for the
union with my soul; the wondrous sights I
saw never can be told.
20.
Thy coming, Oh, Spirit, was as noiseless
as a dewdrop falls on an unopened flower
bud, and caused me to unfold the many
colors of Thy light.
21.
For aeons past and ever more I know thy
Light and Power; Soul and body shall awake
and proclaim it ever more.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 79
22.
Within me there is a Guide to Immortal­
ity’s sphere; I will follow it on and on and
will not linger here.
23.
Darkness is gone; my mind is vibrant
with power. I live in transcendent bliss
every minute and hour.
24.
Thou, Oh, Universal Spirit, hast touched
my soul with indescribable bliss! no more
the glories of Thy touch shall I ever miss.
25.
Like a dove, Oh Mighty Spirit, Thou
cometh to me, and brought sweet peace and
liberty; in this, my Soul is free, since Thou
art one with me.
26.
As a light shineth in darkness my soul
illumines my path; and in its light I am safe.
27.
No disease can exist in the presence of
one spark of Divine God Power; thus my
Soul becomes my physician.
so THE GREAT REVELATION OR
28.
My Soul being in contact with God be­
comes my source of supply; happiness be­
longs to me.
29.
Cleanse me, Oh, Universal Spirit, from all
lust and greed. I accept what I receive and
ask no more.
30.
Help me, Oh, Divine Oversoul, that I may
desire to let all things live and never desire
the blood of one of thy creatures.
31.
Oh, that I may cease to use harsh words
and cease to poison my being.
32.
Teach me, Oh, Lord of Hosts, not to let
passion control me, that I may not be con­
sumed in its fierce fire.
33.
Thou, Oh, my Father, art the Light of the
lightest day; the Beacon of the lower worlds.
34.
I desire to be like my soul, whose greatest
benefit comes from helping others.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 81
35.
Once I thought I gained through greed;
now I know I lost.
36.
Oh, my Soul, liberate me from desire; de­
liver me from passion and anguish that I
may be calm like Thee.
37.
Teach me, Oh, Spirit, to do good deeds,
that I may have good results.
38.
I learned a great lesson—It was, hate
begets sorrow; love begets bliss.
39.
Evil thoughts once stole my love of Thee,
Oh, Divine Spirit; I changed my thoughts
and now walk in the True Light.
40.
I have learned that Immortality comes
from living in truth and death from living
in falsity; thus I changed my way of living,
to gain my Soul’s desire.
82 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
CHAPTER 15
Revelation of the A rk and the Covenant
In spiritual consciousness I was lifted into
the heavenly spheres and there was before
me a great Temple of pure white, and the
symbol of God, the star, was over the door
and a voice spoke to me and said “This is
the Temple of the Ark of the Testimony and
the Covenant. Enter and learn all things
thou wouldst desire to know.”
I entered and walked straightway to the
altar, which was in the form of an ark with
seven steps leading upward, which means
overcoming the seven plagues of man, which
are, malice, hatred, envy, jealousy, passion,
lust, and ignorance. On either side there
were the Cherubim and Seraphim, which
mean Positive and Negative powers and also
there were the Seven Golden Candlesticks on
top of the Ark, which represent the Seven
Spirits before the throne of God. And a
loud voice spoke from between the wings
of the Cherubim and Seraphim, saying
“This is the beginning of the downfall of
the beast which is Materialism; the triumph
of the Ark or of Safety for those who love
THE WHITE PROPHECY 83
the Lord, and the fulfilling of the Covenant,
which is that those who believe shall be
saved if they tire not of good deeds. Open
now your mouth and speak, Oh, Prophet,
and ask all things that perplex your soul,
for you stand before the Throne of Wisdom
and you shall hear the answer.” So I asked
the following questions:
Why is Sin in the world?
And the Oracle said: “Sin is in the world
because of ignorance of God’s laws.
How can one be cleansed from sin and be
forgiven?
By gaining knowledge and doing good
deeds. When the conscience is clean, the
sins are forgiven.
What church is God’s church?
God’s church is the universe, and those
who do good are its members.
Who was Jesus of Nazareth?
He was the Man who became the Christ
in expression, and he is now in Universal
expression as the Son of God.
84 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
Who gains Immortality?
Those whose deeds are spiritual and
whose mind and soul are united.
Who does not gain Immortality?
Those whose consciousness is entirely ma­
terial and selfish.
What happens to them?
They drift unconscious through the Cos­
mic elements; some drawn by passion rein­
carnate; some unattached to the physical
and yet not spiritual disseminate; while
others become obsessing entities without
conscious knowledge of their state. This is
the true interpretation of the statement
made by Jesus the Christ—“In my Father’s
House are many mansions.”
Can anyone intercede for those who are
unconscious because of a guilty conscious­
ness and lighten their burden?
No mortal can perform that; only Jesus
the Christ could operate that law.
Are there any true Christians on earth?
All those who will die that others may
live are true followers.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 85
V
Are there many such Christians?
No, they are few in number.
What is true Communion?
True Communion is to fast and pray and
direct the attention toward the Christ.
When you have forgotten self and you are
only conscious of Christ, this is true Com­
munion.
What about the Consecrated Wine and
Bread Communion which people believe to
be the flesh and blood of Jesus the Christ,
as is taught in the Gospel of John?
This is a symbol; the bread symbolizes
living the life of Christ outwardly; the wine
symbolizes living it inwardly.
If a child dies unbaptized, shall its soul
go to torment?
Material baptism is a symbol of spiritual
baptism; it has no bearing on the destiny
of the Soul.
Why was I chosen to be a Prophet?
Because your mission is to save the people
from Materialism and ceremonial religion,
which will and does destroy immortality.
86 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
Why do people kill others?
Because of ignorance and lust.
What happens to a killer after death?
Unless he redeems himself by good deeds
and thoughts he loses the Immortality of
memory and conscious identity. No one
who kills can enter the Presence of God or
his Son Jesus Christ consciously.
Why does oblivion await those who do
wrong?
Because that is nature’s law of mercy.
When do we suffer from wrong doing?
You suffer in the mundane life for every
wrong committed.
What is man’s greatest enemy?
A fiery temper, an evil tongue, and an un­
just mind.
How can one be saved?
By good deeds, and following Jesus the
Christ.
Is this Oracle a reality or just a vision?
This Oracle is the expression of Spiritual
Wisdom and is therefore a reality.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 8?
Who has gained Wisdom by it previous to
my present experience?
There have been many, among them
Moses, Isaac, Jacob, Joshua, Solomon, and
John the Revelator.
Who can approach this Oracle?
Only those who are unselfish and desire
to live for others, who also can control their
body, mind and consciousness.
Is there any message for my followers?
Tell them to forsake Materialism and
Ceremonial religion; do good deeds and
merit the reward of Immortality. Tell them
to he kind to others, and study self control
and not to mix this Prophecy with other
impure doctrine; they will be safe if they
follow this teaching and not safe if they do
not.
After this revelation of Wisdom and
sound doctrine I returned to my body a much
enlightened man and was sure I had stood
in the Temple of the Ark and the testimony
in the heavenly spheres of Immortality
and had received a great Message for my
race and followers. May God bless those
THE WHITE PROPHECY 89
CHAPTER 16
Revealed Law s of the Kingdom
The following laws governing success,
health and happiness were received by the
author while in deep meditation; they will
show you how to live a practical Christian
life and be happy as the Divine Father cre­
ated you to be. All sorrow and disappoint­
ment and disease come from failure to prac­
tice the laws governing nature and his Di­
vine Kingdom.
First we will consider the law or force
known as love. If you would that your soul
be pleased, then love your enemies and this
love makes you a spiritual conqueror and
gives you dominion over the faults in their
nature and transmutes their enmity into
love. Hold no thought of malice, for if you
do, some one will give you malice in return.
If some one disappoints you, then give them
your blessing and forgive them, and this will
soon produce a better condition than there
would have been had you not been disap­
pointed.
If you are falsely accused, pray mentally
that the God spirit in your accuser will show
90 THE GREAT REVELATION OR
him his error, then forget the wrong and
you will be helped by a law higher than any
man-made law.
If you want health, then do all you can to
make others healthy without thought of
gain. This is the way to attain for yourself
what you desire to see in others.
If you have trouble in your family, vis­
ualize this trouble being overcome through
Justice prevailing, then lay the burden on
the Christ within and realize that whatever
is, is best. After you do this and fully trust,
then follow the dictates of your conscience.
This will bring about a harmonious condi­
tion.
If you are not earning enough to exist
properly, then give at least one-tenth of that,
to some cause you believe will do the great­
est good to help others. Many of the
world’s richest men have done this while
poor, then became rich. But no one should
be rich that deprives others of the necessi­
ties of life. It is well to be comfortable and
have plenty; to have more than one needs is
wrong, as such person should use their
wealth to help educate people and uplift
humanity in general.
THE WHITE PROPHECY 91
If we live to help others, we live for God;
if we live for self, we will soon be lost to
self and also to God; thus our treasures are
good deeds.
V ol. 2 o f th e W h ite P rop h ecy, n o w b ein g com ­
p iled b y th e A uthor, w ill be p u b lish ed at a later
date.
CONTENTS
Page
Introduction................................................................................................3
The Universal Laws of C reation.......................................................... 5
Revelation on T hought Form s............................................................. 9
Revelation on the Symbol of C reation............................................ 11
T o rm en t......................................................................................................13
The Heavenly Spheres........................................................................... 18
Revelation of the Suprem e G ospel................................................... 31
B aptism .......................................................................................................39
Suprem e D evotion..................................................................................44
D o ctrin e..................................................................................................... 50
A Revelation on M arriage........................................... 57
Prophecy.....................................................................................................62
Illum ination.............................................................................................. 67
Revelation on the Two Loves...............................................................71
Revealed Sayings of the Soul...............................................................75
Revelation of the Ark and the Covenant........................................ 82
Revealed Laws of the K ingdom ................................... 89
